SUPREME COURT U. S.
the law of the land, and as fuch
affe&s the rights of parties litigating in court, that treaty
SCHoONER as much binds thofe rights andis as much to be regarded
PG
by the court as an a6t of congrefs; and although reftoration
nmly be an executive, when viewed as a fubftantive, a&
independent of, and unconneded with, 6ther circunmftances, yet to condemn a veffel, the reftoration of which
is direded by a law of the land, would be a dirc&k infraction of that law, and of confequence, improper.

U. STATIS But yet where a treaty is

T/.

It is in the general true that the province of an appel.
late court is only to enquire whether a judgment when
rendered was erroneous or not. But if fubfequent to the
judgient and before the decifion of the appellate court, a
law intervenes and pofitively changes the rule which go-.
verns, the law muff e obeyed, or its obligation denied.
If the law be conflitutional, and of,that no doubt in the
prefcnt cafe has been 'expreflkd, I know of no court
which'can cont~ft its obligation. It is true that in mere
private cafes between individuals, a court will and ought
to firuggle hard againft a conftru&ion which will, by a
retrofpe&ive operation, affe& the rights of parties, but in
great national concerns where individual rights, acquired
by War, are facrificed for national purpofes, the contraa,
making the facrifice, ought always to receive a conftru&ion
conforming to its manifeft import; and if the nation has
given up the vefted rights of its citizens, it is not for the
court, but for the government, to confider whether it be a
cafe proper for compenfation. In fuch a cafe the court
muft decide according to exifling laws, and if it be neceffary to fet afide a judgment, rightful when rendered, but
which cannot be aftiiied but in violation of law, the judgment muff be fet afide.
JACOB RESLER v. JAMES SHEHEE.
RSLER
'V).
.fe

tTiswas

a writ of error upon a judgment or the

After the firfl:
was
term next fol.. circuit. court of the diftri& of Columbia, fitting
lowing an otfice andria, in an acion for a malicious profecution
judgment, in
Virginia, iti,by Shehee v. Refler, originally in the court of

a mater of

at Aiexbrought
huffings
for the town of Alexandria, and transferred by aa of

DECEMBER, I 8oi.
.Ongrefs of 27 th February, igox, concerning the diftri&
of Columbia, to the circuit court of that diftri&.

RrSLE1
I.
S4 E r.

The declaration ftated that on the 26th of December,
t799, Refler, without reafonable caufe, procured a cer- mtre difcretion

the court
tain falfe, fcandalous, and malicious warrant, to be iffued in
wheshtr
they
againft Shehee, by F. Peyton, efq. then mayor of the town wilt admit a
of Alexandria, charging Shehee with having teceived fpeeial plea to
fet
filed
the•~~~~m
from a certain negro flave, called
4proper- be
aie1hat
t to judg,
ty of Baldwin Dade, certain ftolen goods, viz. One box r
hent.

of tallw, knowing the fame to he ftolen; which warrant
was executed upon the faid Shehee, who, by means of
the falfe and malicious reprefentations of Refler, was- recognized to appear before the court of huftings of Alexandria, at April term iBoo, to anfwer to the charges
contained in the warrant, at which court Shehee was acquitted.
At the rules held at the clerk's office, on the 2d Febru.
ary, i 8ox, an office,jud'gment was entered againft Refler
for want of a plea, anda writ of enquiry awarded, returnable to the court of huftings, which by law would
have been held on the firft Monday of April, 8oi. But
the aa of congrefs of 27 th February, i So,, which provides for the government of the diftri& of Columbia,
erected a circuit court for the difirio, to which it transferred all the caufes then pending in the court of huffings;
and enated that the circuit court fhould hold four feffions
a year in Alexandria, viz. On the 2d 'Mondays of January, April, and July,, and the 1A Ionday of Oitober.
Two terms of the circuit court, viz. April and, July,
having elapfed without the writ of enquiry being fet afide,
the defendant Refler by his counfel, at Otober term 8o i,
on the 9 th day'of the month, appeared and moved the
court to fet afide the writ of enquiry on filing the following fpecial plea in juftification, viz. " And the faid degfendant by his attorney, George Youngs, comes and
c" defends the force' and inquiry, &c. and for plea faith,,

"4that on the 26th day of December, in the year x799,
cc at the town of Alexandria aforefaid, and within the
"jurifdi&ion of the court of huftings of faid town, a
"box of tallow, belonging to the defendant, as his owq

"proper goods and chattels, of the value of two dollars,

liI

REsak
IV.
SHEHEF.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

"was itolen out of the houfe of the defendant, by fome
"perfon unknown to the defendant, and the faid defend" ant being informed by a certain John M'GilI, his jour.
" neyman, that the faid box of tallow was in the houfe
of the plaintiff, complained to Francis Peyton, mayor
"of the faid. town, of, and concerning the faid box of
" tallow, who by his warrant, dated the 27 th day of De.
" cember, in the year 1799, called the plaintiff before
" him and exaiined him; a id upon his examination and
" the teftimony of fundry perfons, bound the plaintiff
" to appear at the next grand jury court of huflings of
" Laid town, to anfwer the charge contained in faid warrant, of, and concerning the receiving the faid box of
" tallow, fo ftolen as aforefaid, and which was found in
"his poffeffion, whereupon, the plaintiff appearing wal
acquitted and difcharged by the Laid court, which is the
" fame procurement of the faid warrant and acquittal
" whereof the aforefaid aaion is brought, and this the
" defendant is ready to verify, &c."
The plaintiff objeaed to the filing of that plea, in this
ftage of the caufe, and upon argument, the court'on the
13 th day of Oaober, refufed to receive it ; whereupon,
the defendant took a bill of exceptions, and pleaded the
general iffue, upon which, on khe i4 th day of Odober,
there was a verdi&t for the plaintiff, and judgment for
iooo dollars damages.
On that judgment the defendant brought his writ of
error to this court, and the error afligned was the refufal
of the court below to fuffer the defendant to file the fpecial plea above recited.
The caufe was at this term argued by C. Lee for plaintiff in error, and Simms and Mafon for defendant.
Lee. This cafe depends upon the law and praffice of
Virginia.

By the a6t of congreft of 3 d March, idox.

fupplementary to the ad concerning the diftri& of Columbia, fec. 3, it is ena~ted, " that the circuit coukt for
" the county of Alexandria, fhall poffefs and exercife
" the fame powers and jurifdidion, civil and criminal,
" as is now poffeffed and exercifed by the dittrid courts
i of Virginia."

DECEMBER,

8ot.

The a& of affembly of Virginia, refpeaing the diftriat
courts of that ftate, fec. 28, (revied code, p. 85.) provides, that " every judgment entered in the office againft

" a defendant and vail, or againft a defendant and fherift, fhall be fet afide, if the defendant, at the fucceedi.ing court, fhall be allowed to appear without bail, put
" in good bail, being ruled fo to do, or furrender himfelf
" in cuftody, and fhall plead to iffue immediately." And
in fec. 42, of the fame a&, p. 87, it is further provided,
" That all judgments by default for want of an appearc ance or fpecial bail, or pleas as aforefaid, and non-fuits
"tor difmiffions obtained in the office, and not fet afide
" on fome day of the next fucceeding diftri court, fhall
" be entered by the clerk as of the laft d.cy of the term ;
"which judgment fhall be final in anions of debt found" ed on any fpecialty, bill, or note in writing, afeerc"taining the demand, unlefs the plaintiff ffiall choofe
I in any fuch cafe to have a writ of enquiry of damages;
" and in all other cafes the damages flhall be afcertained
" by a jury, to be empanneled and fworn to enquire
c thereof, as is herein after dlre&ed."
Upon an equitable conftruCtion of thefe feclions of the
a&, the pradtice in Virginia has been to permit the defendant to come in at a fubfequent term and avail himfelf
the fame manner as if
of any fuch defence as he has, ip1
he had pleaded it at the particular term mentioned. This
queftion has been difcuffed in Virginia and received the
conflru&ion for which I contend. The cafe of Doqwnman v. Downman's executors, x. Wafh. 26, was a plea of
tender after office judgment confirmed. In p. 27, the
" court fay, thefe words " plead to ifue immediately," are
" the fame as were ufed in the old a& of 1753, for efta-

c blifhing the general court; under which, the praaice
" of that court was very liberal, in allowing a defendant
4 to plead that which did not make an iffue, but required
fubfequent pleadings, provided the real juftice of the
" cafe, and not intended delay, was thereby promoted.
" This is unavoidable in cafes of bonds with collateral
- conditions, where the defendant cannot plead to iffue.
" This is alfo agreeable to the principle laid down by lord
" Holt, in 2. Salk. 622; " That though a judgment be
4' ever fo regularly entered, it fhall be fet afide at any
"1time on payment of cofts, fo as the plaintiff -does not
P

RESLsR

Iv.
SHE HFE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RESLER
q,.

SHEHEE.

" lofe a trial." And again in p. 28, 4c confidering the circc cumftances of this country and tfte difperfed fituatiot
cc of the attornies and their clients, who can feldom com-

, .municate with each other but at court, juftice feems to
crequire a relaxation in thefe rules (Englifh rules) of
is pradice. It would feem to me proper to allow a dif- cretion in the judges to admit any plea which appears
- neceffary for the defendant's defence, and only to reS-fort to the rigor of the rule where delay appears to be
- intended." This plea then, if neceffary for the defendant's defence, ought to have been admitted. It contains
nothing exceptionable, and the fadfs flated in it, if true,
are a .juftification. There is no cafe more proper for
fpecial pleading than one in which the prejudices of the
people are enlifted on one fide or the other. The law
only direds what is to be done the firft term, but afterwards it is left open to the difcretipn of the court. In
this cafe there can be no pretence that the plea was intended for delay, as it was offered on the 9 th, and' the
caufe was not tried until the 14 th of Oaober, fo that
there was full time to anfwer the plea and make up the
iffue.
To fhew that this plea is a good juffifcation, I refer
to the cafe of Coxe v. Wirrall, Cro. Jac. 193, where a
fimilar plea was adjudged good upon demurrer.
It is common pradice, even in the Englifh courts, to
permit the general iffue to be withdrawn, and a fpecial
plea filed, where it is not done with an intent of delay.
7eferys v. Waier, I iJon, 177-and 254, Taylor v
joddrel/. But the cafe of Docwnman v. Downrnan, before
cited, feems concufive upon this queftion.
Chafe, Jflice. Have the rules of the Virginia courts
been adopted in the circuit court ?
Lee. I conceive the circuit court at Alexaridria, to be
in the fame fituation as the diftrid court at Richmond.
And, as I underifand the ad of congrefs, they are obliged
to adopt the pradfice of the courts of Virginia, except
where the circuit court hat adually made a different
rule.

DECEMBER, i8o.
;imms, for defendant in error.

Risita
'V..

I will not deny that the courts of Virginia have gone
the length ftated in Wafhington's reports. They have
ufed their difcretion, and have confidered whether the
plea offered tends to.the juftice of the caufe, or whether
it is intended only for delay. In this cafe, the time having
paffed when the defendant could file his plea as a matter
of right, it was entirely in the difcretion of the cotirt to
admit or rejet it.
It is certainly not a fuifficient juftification for the defendant to fay that the magiftrate committed the plaintiff;
for that neither deftroys the evidence of exprefs malice,
nor thews probable ctufe for the profecution. The magiftrate might have committed upon the evidence of the
defendant Refler himfelf; fo that this plea would nfoft
probably have been over-ruled upon 'lemurrer, and at any
rate would have created delay;,for in a matter of fo much
confequence it cannot be prefumed that the counfel for
the plaintiff could at once determine whether to demur or
to join iffue.
The defendant was not precluded from making a proper defence. He might have fhewn probable caufe on the
general iffue, for the gift of th; ation is the want of
probable caufe ; and the court had the power of inftruding the jury whether fuch cau'fe was fhewn or not. Bul.
ler, N. P. 14.
It is faid that the plea was offered in a reafonable time.
It can not furely be faid that three days in the hurry of
the court is a reafonable time to anfwei fuch a plca'-fo
fay the courts of Virginia.
This plea amounts to the general iffue, and therefore
ought not to have been received. The juftice of the cafe
did not require it, and it is only to promote juftice that
the courts have ever deviated from the precife terms.of
the law.
Matin, on the fame fide.
Admitting for a moment that the praaice of the Virginia courts was binding upon the circuit court, yet the

SHIHEI.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RESLIR

•V.
SHEHSE.

court have only exercifed the fame difcretion which a
Virginia court might have exercifed. There is a particular time allowed for fpecial pleading; after that time,
the admiffion of a plea is difcretionary with the court.
The cafe in Wafhington's reports is clear to fhew that it
is altogether a matter of diferetion. The court might
have refufed to receive any plea at all ; for the right of the
defendant to fet afide the office judgment, by pleading to
iffue, is confined to the court next fucceeding the office
judgment.
, But the defendant had every advantage under the general iffue, which he could have had under his plea. It is
extremely clear that the plaintiff muft (hew malice, and
the defendant, matter of juftification. The rules of practice in the courts of Virginia,,are confined to Virginia.
The courts of the United States are not bound by them.
They have power to make their own rules.
.Lee, in reply.
Our complaint is that the inferior court has not exercifed its difcretion in the manner it ought to do. I ufe
the word dicretion, differently from Mr. Mafqn. The
exercife of fuch difcretion is fubjed to the cofntrol of
this court. If we look to the decifions of the courts in
Virginia, we find that they have foundly exercifed their
difcretionary power. The pra&ice has conftantly been
to let in the parties notwithftanding any laches. Was it
proper in the court to fay, that although we have a right
to fuffer you to bring the queftion of probable caufe before the court, and to take it from the jury, and although
you wifh fo to do, yet we will not permit you, but will
compel you to go before the jury ; where fa&s difclofed,
not pertinent to -he iffUe, might make an improper impreffion ?
Curing, .uflce. Do you admit that the dtfendant
might have given in evidence under the general iffue, the
fads flated iithe plea offered :
1-e.

It is fufficient for us if it was a matter of doubt.

in fueh a cafe, a cautious pra&itioner will -always take
-the fafeft method, aid plead the fa&s fpecially.

DECEMBER, i8ox.
There is no doubt but the court had a right to make
rules of practice for itfelf. But not having made fuch a
rule in this cafe, its difcretion ought to have been guided
by the pra&ice of the Virginia courts.
We therefore
hope that this court will corre6a the indifereet exercife
of the power of the court below in this cafe.

RESLER

'I
SHEHrL,

"TheCourt. It is true that the courts in Virginia have
been very liberal in admitting any plea, at the next term
after an office judgment, which was neceffary to bring
forward the fubftantial merits of the cafe, whether it was
4tri6lly an iffuable plea, or not. But at a fubfequent term,
it is a matter of mere difcretion with the court whether
they will admit any fpecial plea at all.
In the prefent cafe the faas, ftated in the plea offered,
might have been given in evidence on the general iue ;
the court exercifed their difcretion foundly in rejeaing
the plea.
Judgment affirmed.
TURNER v. FENDALL.

THIS was a writ of error to reverfe a judg- To i Nx
ment of the circuit court of the diftria of Columbia
Z).
fitting at Alexandria, rendered on a motion by Fendall FENDALL.
againft Turner, late fergeantof the corporate town of
Alexandria, for the amount of money received by him A fheriff makes
on a fieri facias iffued on a judgment, in favour of Fen- the
on a money
fi fa atup-

dall againft one Towers..

the fuit of

A.

vs. B. ann af-

This motion was grounded on an a& of affembly of terwardsafi fa.
Viiginia, revifed code page 3 17. §, 5 .- by which i is put
againt
into A
hisis
ena6ted that " If any fheriff,.under fheriff, or other offi- hands, he can" cer, fhall make return upon any writ of fieri facias or not levy it upon
the made
moneybyof
" venditioni exponas, that he hath levied the debt, dama- A.
the
ges or cofts, as ii fuch writ is required, or any part i. fa. of A, v.
" thereof, and fhall not immediately pay the fame to B.for it does
" the party, to whom the fame is payable, or his attor- not become the
atgood, and chat"1ney," "it fhall and may be lawful for the creditor at
e of A. until

