MITCHELL FURN. CO. v. SELDEN BRECK CO. 213
184.

Syllabus.

and to quit their employment. For this reason, we think
that the restraint from persuasion included within the injunction of the District Court was improper, and in that

regard the decree must also be modified. In this we agree
with the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
in part and affirmed in part and the case is remanded
to the District Court for modification of its decree in
conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in substance in the opinion and the judgment of the court.

MR. JUSTICE CLRiKE dissents.

ROBERT MITCHELL FURNITURE COMPANY v.
SELDEN BRECK CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 56.

Argued November 7, 1921.-Decided December 5, 1921.

1. A judgment of the District Court dismissing an action upon the
ground that the process served was void and gave no jurisdiction
over the defendant's person, is reviewable directly here. P. 214.
2. The purpose of a state law requiring foreign corporations to appoint local agents upon whom process may be served is primarily
to secure local jurisdiction in respect of business transacted within
the State, and the scope of the agency should not be extended further by implication unless so construed by the state Supreme Court.
P. 215.
3. In an action in Ohio by an Ohio corporation against a Missouri
corporation, upon a contract to be performed in Michigan, negotiated by correspondence and consummated (it seems) in Illinois, it appeared that the defendant had appointed an agent in
Ohio, upon whom process might be served (Ohio Gen. Code, § 179)
and was engaged in building operations there when the contract
was made, but, before the suit, had ceased such operations and
withdrawn its property and men and thereafter it merely filed an

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

annual report in compliance with Ohio Gen. Code, § 5499, after
service in the action was made on the agent. Held, that the service
was void. Chipman, Ltd. v. Thomas B. Jeffery Co., 251 U. S. 373.
Affirmed.
WRIT

of error to review a judgment of the District

Court dismissing an action against a foreign corporation,
upon the ground that the service of process upon its
statutory agent did not give jurisdiction over the person
of the corporation.
Mr. Leo J. Brumleve, Jr., with whom Mr. Walter A.
De Camp and Mr. Dudley V. Sutphin were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Simeon Nash, with whom Mr. C. C. Williams was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here on error to a judgment of the District
Court that held the summons in the suit void and, on the
plaintiff's statement that it could not secure service otherwise, dismissed the petition for want of jurisdiction over
the person of the defendant. An appeal to this Court
lies in such a case. Board of Trade of Chicago v.
Hammond Elevator Co., 198 U. S. 424. The material
facts are as follows: The action is brought by an -Ohio
corporation upon a contract made with the defendant, a
Missouri corporation, to deliver " F. 0. B. cars Ann Arbor,
Michigan," specified woodwork for the library building of
the University of Michigan, upon which the defendant
was engaged. The contract was made by correspondence
between the plaintiff in Cincinnati and the defendant in
Chicago, and would seem from the affidavits and exhibits
to have become operative by the posting of a letter of the
defendant accepting corrections, at Chicago, on February
10, 1917, although by the declaration it is alleged to have
been made in Cincinnati. Beaumont v. Prieto, 249 U. S.

MITCHELL FURN. CO. v. SELDEN BRECK CO. 215
213.

Opinion of the Court.

554. The defendant is a contractor, constructing buildings and the like, and, being a foreign corporation, in 1910
had designated Simeon Nash as a person upon whom
process against it could be served within the State of
Ohio, as required by statute. Subsequently it constructed
buildings in Ohio, but its last work was finished on October 26, 1918, and its workmen and property were withdrawn from the State. Since that date it has made no
bids for work there. This action was begun on April 5,
1919, in a State Court of Ohio, but afterwards was removed to the District Court of the United States. The
only service was upon Nash, and the question is whether
it was sufficient in the circumstances set forth.
An annual report is required by Gen. Code § 5499 from
foreign corporations for profit doing business in the State.
The defendant filed such a report in July, 1919, after the
service, and no doubt would have been ready to bid upon
Ohio contracts that seemed to it tempting, as it had done
in the past. The plaintiff contends that these facts show
that it was doing business in Ohio when the writ was
served. The defendant says that the report was necessary for the ascertainment of taxes due from it for the last
financial year, but it may be assumed that the wish to
keep open the possibility of further employment was a
contributing motive. It did nothing, however, and it contends that merely watching from outside for a chance was
not enough to bring it into the trap. If it had withdrawn
from the State the agency of Nash did not extend to receiving service in a suit upon a contract made and to be
performed as this was. Chipman, Ltd. v. Thomas B. Jeffery Co., 251 U. S. 373. The defendant relies upon the
analogy of that case.
The purpose in requiring the appointment of such an
agent is primarily to secure local jurisdiction in respect of
business transacted within the State. Of course when a
foreign corporation appoints one as required by statute it

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

takes the risk of the construction that will be put upon the
statute and the scope of the agency by the State Court.
Pennsylvania FireInsurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining &
Milling Co., 243 U. S. 93. But the reasons for a limited
interpretation of a compulsory assent are hardly less
strong when the assent is expressed by the appointment
of an agent than when it is implied from going into business in the State without appointing one. In the latter
case the implication is limited to business transacted
within the State. Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S.
115, 131, 132. Old Wayne Mutual Life Association v.
McDonough, 204 U. S. 8, 22, 23. Unless the state law
either expressly or by local construction gives to the appointment a larger scope, we should not construe it to
extend to suits in respect of business transacted by the
foreign corporation elsewhere, at least if begun, as this
was, when the long previous appointment of the agent is
the only ground for imputing to the defendant an even
technical presence. Chipman, Ltd. v. Thomas B. Jeffery
Co., 251 U. S. 373. The indications of the Ohio statutes,
so far as they go, look to "liability incurred within this
State." Gen. Code § 181. As we know of no decision to
the contrary by the Supreme Court of Ohio, we are of
opinion that the service upon Nash was bad.
Judgment affirmed.
NORTH PACIFIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY v.
SOLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 63. Submitted November 7, 1921.-Decided December 5, 1921.
1. It is the duty of the District Court to dismiss, whenever it appears to its satisfaction that the suit does not really and substantially involve the requisite jurisdictional amount. Jud. Code,
§§ 24, 37. P. 221.

