282

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

DAHNKE-WALKER MILLING COMPANY v.
BONDURANT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 30. Argued March 18, 1921; restored to docket for.reargument
June 6, 1921; reargued October 10, 1921.-Decided December 12,
1921.
1. A decision of a state court applying and enforcing a state statute
of general scope against a particular transaction as to which there
was, not merely a claim of a right or immunity under the Constitution, but a distinct and timely insistence that, if so applied to it,
the statute was unconstitutional and void, necessarily affirms the
validity of the statute when so applied, and the judgment based
thereon is therefore reviewable by writ of error under § 237, Jud.
Code, as amended by the Act of September 6, 1916. P. 288.
2. That the statute, in such case, is not claimed to be invalid in toto
and for every purpose is immaterial, since a statute may be invalid
as applied to one state of facts and yet valid as applied to another; and a litigant, moreover, can be heard to qu'estion a
statute's validity only when and in so far as it is being, or is
about to be, applied to his disadvantage. P. 289.
3. The right to review the validity of a state statute under Jud.
Code, § 237, is independent of the grounds or reasons on which
the state court upholds the validity of the statute. P. 289.
4. Where the state court denied enforceability to a contract made
by a foreign corporation, upon the grounds that the contract was
local in character and that the corporation had not complied with
a statute conditioning the right of foreign corporations to do
local business, although the corporation insisted that the contract
was made in interstate commerce and that the statute, so applied,
was therefore unconstitutional, held that the judgment was reviewable here by writ of error. P. 290.
5. Interstate commerce is not confined to transportation from one
State to another, but comprehends all commercial intercourse
between different States and all the component parts of that
intercourse. P. 290.
6. Just as, Where goods m one State are transported into another for
purposes of sale, the interstate commerce embraces their sale
after they reach their destination and while they are in the
original packages, on the same principle, where goods are pur-

DARNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT.
282.

283

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

chased in one State for transportation to another, the commerce
includes the purchase quite as much as it does the transportation.
P. 290.
7. A corporation of one State may go into another, without obtaining the leave or license of the latter, for all the legitimate purposes of such commerce; and any statute of the latter State which
obstructs or lays a burden on the exercise of this privilege is
pro tanto void under the commerce clause. P. 291.
8. A Tennessee corporation, in pursuance of its practice of purchasing grain in Kentucky to be transported to and used in its Tennessee mill, made a contract for the purchase of wheat, to be
delivered in Kentucky on the cars of a public carrier, intending
to forward it as soon as delivery was made. Held, that the transaction was in interstate commerce, notwithstanding the contract
was made and to be performed in Kentucky, and that the possibility that the purchaser might change its mind after delivery and
sell the grain in Kentucky or consign it to some other place in
that State, did not affect the essential character of the transaction. P. 292.
185 Ky. 386, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky which affirmed a judgment-of a court of first instance on a verdict directed for the defendant in an action
for damages for breach of contract, brought by the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John C. Doolan, with whom Mr. Joseph E. Robbin, Mr. R. G. Robbins, Mr. Edmund F. Trabue, Mr.
Thomas Kennedy Helm and Mr. James P. Helm, Jr., were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
While transportation is a part of commerce between the
States, it is merely one of its elements. Either transportation or delivery may be the last of several steps in a
transaction classed by this court as interstate commerce.
In those cases where the seller goes into the buyer's State
and negotiates the sale, transportation may precede delivery. On the other hand, where the buyer goes into the
seller's State, transportation may follow delivery, as in the
instant case. In either case, the parties may contract for
delivery in the one State or the other, as they deem

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

257 U. S.

proper, and this does not take away the interstate commerce feature of the transaction. American Express Co.
v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133; Kinnear Manufacturing Co. v.
Miner, 89 Vt. 572. In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189,
190, it was conceded that commerce between the States
included negotiation, buying and selling, and it required
that decision to establish the principle that power to regulate commerce also included the power to regulate transportation.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398,
399; Parsons-Willis Co. v. Stuart, 182 Fed. 779, 783;
Kesterson v. La Moine Lumber Co., 139 Fed. 355, affirming 171 Fed. 980; Parker-HarrisMotor Co. v. Kissel Motor Car Co., 165 Wis. 518; KinnearManufacturing Co. v.
Miner, 89 Vt. 572; Livingstone Manufacturing -Co. v.
Rizzi Brothers, 86 Vt. 419; McNaughton Co. v. McGirI,
20 Mont. 124; Union Cotton Oil Co. v. Patterson, 116
Miss. 802.
This court has repeatedly held that the intention of a
shipper to have his shipment moved to an ultimate destination outside the State of its origin fixes the character
of the movement as interstate commerce, even though
such intention was not communicated to the carrier at
the inception of the movement. Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S.
498. Especially is this true where, as a practical matter,
the movement of the goods is obviously intended to go
beyond the bounds of the State. Texas & New Orleans
R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111; Ohio R. R.
Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Philadelphia
& Reading Ry. Co. v. Hancock, 253 U. S. 284.
Mr. M. Walton Hendry, for defendant in error, sul;mitted. Mr. B. T. Davis and Mr. W. J. Webb were also
on the briefs.
A State may impose any condition it desires upon a foreign corporation for-permitting it to engage in intrastate

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT. 285
282.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

business. Commonwealth v. Read Phosphate Co., 113 Ky.
32; Manufacturing Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727; Insurance Co. v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; Waters Pierce Oil Cd. v. Texas, 177
U. S. 29.
The statute in question regulates transaction of business by foreign corporations within the State other than
interstate commerce and is not in conflict with the Federal Constitution. Knoxville Nursery Co. v. Commonwealth, 108 Ky. 6; Oliver v. Louisville Realty Co., 156
Ky. 628; Van Meter v. Spurrier, 94 Ky. 22; Lindley v.
Rutherford, 17 B. Mon. 246. On the other hand the
application of the statute to foreign corporations engaged
strictly in interstate commerce with citizens of the State
is void. Louisville Trust Co. v. Bayer Co., 166 Ky. 746,
and other cases.
Whenever a commodity has begun to move as an article of trade from one State to another, commerce in that
commodity between the States has commenced. The
Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 565. But this movement does not
begin until the articles have been shipped or started for
transportation from the one State to the other. Coe v.
Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 525. This case, it seems to us, applies with great force to the facts here.
The contract between these parties was completed before the articles became a subject of transportation, and
it is iminaterial what may have been the thought or purpose of the plaintiff. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe R. R.
Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; United States v. Knight Co.,
156 U. S. 1. Actual motion in transportation is essential.
Bennett v. American Express Co., 83 Me. 236.
Where a state statute applies to both intrastate and interstate shipments, but the shipment involved is wholly
intrastate, this court will not consider the validity of the
statute when applied to interstate shipments. 3 Foster's
Fed. Prac., p. 2002; Seaboard Air Line By. v. Seegers,
207 U. S. 73.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The validity of a statute is not drawn into question
every time a right claimed under it is controverted; nor is
the validity of an authority drawn in question every time
an act done by such authority is disputed. Cook County
v. Calumet Co., 138 U. S. 635; Ferry v. King County, 141
U. S. 668.
M . JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action to recover damages for the breach
of a contract for the sale and delivery of a crop of wheat
estimated at 14,000 bushels. The plaintiff was a Tennessee corporation engaged in operating a flour and feed
mill at Union City, in that State. The defendant was a
resident of Hickman, Kentucky, and extensively engaged
in farming in that vicinity. They were the parties to the
contract. It was made at Hickman and the wheat was to
be delivered and paid for there. But the delivery was to
be on board the cars of a common carrier, and the plaintiff intended to ship the wheat to its mill in Tennessee.
A small part of the crop was delivered as agreed, but delivery of the rest was refused, although the plaintiff was
prepared and expecting to receive and pay for it. A payment advanced on the crop more than covered what was
delivered. At 'the time for delivery wheat had come to be
worth several cents per bushel more than the price fixed
by the contract. The action was brought in a state court
in Kentucky.
The principal defense interposed-the only one which
we have occasion to notice-was to the effect that the
plaintiff had not complied, as was the fact, with a statute
of Kentucky (Ky. Stats. 1915, § 571) prescribing the conditions on which corporations of other States might do
business in that State, and that the contract was therefore
not enforceable. To this the plaintiff replied that the only
business done by it in Kentucky consisted in purchasing

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT.
282.

287

Opinion of the Court.

wheat and other grain in that State for immediate shipment to its Tennessee mill and then shipping the same
there; that the contract in question was made in the
course of this business and with the purpose of forwarding the wheat to the mill as soon as it was delivered on
board the cars; that this transaction was in interstate
commerce and as to it the statute of Kentucky whose application was invoked by the defendant was invalid because in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The cause was tried twice. On the first trial the plaintiff obtained a verdict and judgment, the court ruling that
the statute could not constitutionally be applied to the
transaction in question. But the Court of Appeals of the
State, while conceding the invalidity of the statute as
respects transactions in interstate commerce, held the
transaction in question was not in such commerce, declared the statute valid and properly enforceable as to
that transaction and reversed the judgment with a direction for a new trial. That court proceeded on the theory
that, as the contract was made in Kentucky, related to
property then in that State and was to be wholly performed therein, the transaction was strictly intrastate
and not within the reach or protection of the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States;-and
this although the wheat was to be delivered on board the
cars of a public carrier and the plaintiff intended to ship
it to Tennessee as soon as it was so delivered. 175 Ky.
774. On the second trial a verdict for the defendant was
directed because the plaintiff had not complied with the
statute. The jury conformed to the direction, judgment
was entered on the verdict and that judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals on the authority of its
former decision. 185 Ky. 386.
The case is here on a writ of error and our jurisdiction
is challenged. The objection is not that we are without

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

power to review the judgment, but that it can be reviewed
only on a writ of certiorari. The controlling statute is
§ 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. Besides confining
our power of review in cases litigated in the state courts
to those in which the decision of a-federal question is involved, this jurisdictional section provides that the review in cases falling within certain classes may be on writ
of error and in others on writ of certiorari, the distinguishing or dividing line being drawn according to the nature
of the federal question and the way in which the state
court decides it. Some cases may fall on both sides of the
line, but with this we are not now concerned. Among
those in which the review may be on writ of error the
section includes"any suit . . . where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any
State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the
decision is in favor of their validity."
Among those in which the review may be on writ of
certiorari are"any cause . . . where is drawn in question the va-

lidity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any
State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the
decision is against their validity "; and
"any cause . . . where any title, right, privilege, or
innunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty
or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised
under the United States, and the decision is either in
favor of or against the title, right, privilege, or immunity
especially set up or claimed, by either party, under such
Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority."
In the state court the plaintiff did not simply claim a
right or immunity under the Constitution of the United

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT.
282.

289

Opinion of the Court.
D

States, but distinctly insisted that as to the transaction in
question the Kentucky statute was void, and therefore
unenforceable, because in conflict with the commerce
clause of the Constitution. The court did not accede to
the insistence, but applied and enforced the statute. Of
course, that was an affirmation of its validity when so
applied. Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116,
144; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102, 116-117;
General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211, 228; Corn Products Refining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427, 432. And see
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 3,
27. The case is therefore of the class described in the
first of the provisions which we have quoted from the
jurisdictional section. That the statute was not claimed
to be invalid in toto and for every purpose does not matter. A statute may be invalid as applied to one state of
facts and yet valid as applied to another. Poindexter v.
Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 295; St. Louis, Iron Mountain
& Southern Ry. Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S. 354; Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. Anderson, 233 U. S. 325. Besides, a
litigant can be heard to question a statute's validity only
when and so far as it is being or is about to be applied to
his disadvantage. Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co.
v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217; Jeffrey Manufacturing Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576. Neither does it
matter on what ground the court upheld and enforced the
statute. The provisions quoted from the jurisdictional
section show that in cases where the validity of a state
statute is drawn in question because of alleged repugnance to the Constitution the mode of review depends on
the way in which the state court resolves the question. If
it be resolved in favor of the validity of the statut e the
review may be on a writ of error; and if it be resolved
against the validity the review can only be on writ of
certiorari. The provisions take no account of the particular grounds or reasons on which the decision is put.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the.Court.

257 U. S.

It is loosely said in one of the briefs for the plaintiff
that the "sole question for decision" is whether the contract was a part of interstate commerce; but we attach no
importance to this, because it not only is said in the same
brief that the plaintiff "maintained in the state court,
and it maintains here, that the Kentucky statute, as construed and applied in this case by the state court, is unconstitutional under the commerce clause," but much of
that brief and of another is devoted to an effort to show
the invalidity of the statute in that regard.
Our conclusion on the jurisdictional question is that,
as the state court applied and enforced to the plaintiff's
disadvantage a state statute which the plaintiff seasonably insisted as so applied and enforced was repugnant
to the Constitution and void, the case is rightly here on
writ of error. Like rulings on like grounds will be found
in Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, ante, 265, and
United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, ante, 277.
The commerce clause of the Constitution, Art. I, § 8,
cl. 3, expressly commits to Congress and impliedly withholds from the several States the power to regulate commerce among the latter. Such commerce is not confined
to transportation from one State to another, but comprehends all commercial intercourse between different States
and all the component parts of that intercourse. Where
goods in one State are transported into another for purposes of sale the commerce does not end with the transportation, but embraces as well the sale of the goods after
they reach their destination and while they are in the
original packages. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419,
446-447; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S.
500, 519. On the same principle, where goods are purchased in one State for transportation to another the
commerce includes the purchase quite as much as it does
the transportation. American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196
U. S. 133, 143. This has been recognized in many deci-

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT. 291
282.

Opinion of the Court.

sions construing the commerce clause. Thus it was said
in Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 280: "Commerce is
a term of the largest import. It comprehends intercourse
for the purposes of trade in any and all its forms, including the transportation, purchase, sale, and exchange of
commodities." In Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 20, it
was tersely said: "Buying and selling and the transportation incidental thereto constitute commerce." In United
States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1, 13, "contracts to
buy, sell, or exchange goods to be transported among the
several States" were declared "part of interstate trade
or commerce." And in Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S. 211, 241, the court referred to the
prior decisions as establishing that "interstate commerce
consists of intercourse and traffic between the citizens or
inhabitants of different States, and includes not only the
transportation of persons and property and the navigation
of public waters for that purpose, but also the purchase,
sale and exchange of commodities." In no case has the
court made any distinction between buying and selling or
between buying for transportation to another State and
transporting for sale in another State. Quite to the contrary, the import of the decisions has been that if the
transportation was incidental to buying or selling it was
not material whether it came first or last.
A corporation of one State may go into another, without obtaining the leave or license of the latter, for all the
legitimate purposes of such commerce; and any statute of
the latter State which obstructs or lays a burden on the
exercise of this privilege is void under the commerce
clause. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 57; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27; International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 112; Sioux
Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197.
There is no controversy about the facts bearing on the
character of the transaction in question. It had been the

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

practice of the plaintiff to go into Kentucky to purchase
grain to be transported to and used in its mill in Tennessee. On different occasions it had purchased from the
defendant-at one time 13,000 bushels of corn. This contract was made in continuance of that practice, the plaintiff intending to forward the grain to its mill as soon as
the delivery was made. In keeping with that purpose the
delivery was to be on board the cars of a public carrier. Applying to these facts the principles before stated,
we think the transaction was in interstate commerce.
The state court, stressing the fact that the contract was
made in Kentucky and was to be performed there, put
aside the further facts that the deliveiy was to be on board
the cars and that the plaintiff, in continuance of its prior
practice, was purchasing the grain for shipment to its mill
in Tennessee. We think the facts so neglected had a material bearing and should have been considered. They
showed that what otherwise seemed an intrastate transaction was a part of interstate commerce. See Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398; United States v.
Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324, 367; Pennsylvania R. R. Co.
v. Clark Brothers Coal Mining Co., 238 U. S. 456-468;
EurekaPipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,supra. The state court
also attached some importance to the fact that after the
grain was delivered on the cars the plaintiff might have
changed its mind and have sold the grain at the place of
delivery or have shipped it to another point in Kentucky,
No doubt this was possible, but it also was improbable.
With equal basis it could be said that a shipment of merchandise billed to a point beyond the State of its origin
might be halted by the shipper in the exercise of the right
of stoppage in transitu before it got out of that State.
The essential character of the transaction as otherwise
fixed is not changed by a mere possibility of that sort.
See United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan,supra.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the transaction
was a part of interstate commerce, in which the plaintiff

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT. 293
282.

BRANDEIS

and CLRux,

3 , dissenting.

lawfully could engage without any permission from the
State of Kentucky, and that the statute in question, which
concededly imposed burdensome conditions, was as to that
transaction invalid because repugnant to the commerce
clause.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTOB BR.AEas, with whom concurred MR. JusTCiE CiARxE, dissenting.

The writ of error should, in my opinion, be dismissed.
The obstacle to our assuming jurisdiction is not procedural; as it is in those cases where a plaintiff fails because the claim was not made seasonably or in appropriate
form. Here, the obstacle is the nature of the constitutional question sought to be reviewed. It involves a state
statute. But the validity of the statute is not actually
drawn in question. Only the propriety of the application
or use of the statute is questioned. Since the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, § 2, 39 Stat. 726, such questions are
not reviewable in this court as of right. They may now
be reviewed only in the court's discretion; and exercise of
the discretion must be invoked by a petition for a writ of
certiorari.
This court has now, as it had before that act, jurisdiction under § 237 of the Judicial Code to review a final
judgment of the highest court of a State whenever a right
under the Federal Constitution duly claimed has been
denied in applying a state statute. And in no case involving a state statute can jurisdiction attach unless th
statute has been applied. For unless it was applied, there
could not have been an invasion of the party's constitutional right; and unless there was such invasion the conISee Jett Bros. Co. v. Carrollton, 252 U. S. 1, 6; Mergenthaler
Linotype Co. v. Dcviz, 251 U. S. 256, 258; Godchaux Co. v. Estopinal,
251 U. S. 179.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDES

and CLAuzn, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

stitutional question presented, whatever its nature, would
be moot. But the Act of 1916 made the nature of the constitutional question raised in applying the statute a matter of importance. If the question is a denial of the power
of the legislature to enact the statute as construed, a review may be had as of right. If the question concerns
merely the propriety of the particular use of the statute
or of the manner of applying or administering it, the review may be had only in this court's discretion. The classification thus introduced rests upon broad considerations
of policy. The steady increase of the business of this
court had made it necessary to limit the appellate jurisdiction in cases arising under § 237. To this end Congress
determined in 1916 that even cases involving constitutional questions should be reviewed here only where the
public interest appeared to demand it. Congress left
parties a review as of right where the validity of a state
statute had been drawn in question; because the decision
of such a question is usually a matter of general interest.
But whether a valid state statute has in a particular case
been so used as to violate a constitutional guaranty is ordinarily a matter of merely private interest. Hence, Congress provided that where the validity of the statute is not
assailed, the denial of a claim that in applying it a right,
privilege or immunity had been violated, should not be
reviewed, unless this court, in its discretion to be exercised
upon petition for a writ of certiorari, should direct the
review. That is, Congress treated a right, privilege or immunity claimed to have been violated by the courts' erroneously applying a confessedly valid statute to the particular facts of a case, just as it treated a claim that the
right, privilege or immunity had been violated by a decision erroneous in some other respect.
In considering whether in this case the validity of the
state statute was drawn in question, it is necessary to bear
in mind that, in every case involving a statute, the state

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT.
282.

BRANDms and CLiA&n,

295

JJ., dissenting.

court must perform (aside from the consideration of any
constitutional questions) two functions essentially different. First the court must construe the statute; that is, determine its meaning and scope. Then it must apply the
statute, as so construed, to the facts of the case.1 In this
case the construction of the statute was never in controversy. It had been settled by earlier decisions that the
statute referred only to corporations when transacting
business in intrastate commerce. Here the only contro-.
versy concerned the character of the particular transaction to which defendant sought to have the statute applied. Was it interstate commerce? If so, the transaction was not within the scope of the statute. To decide
that controversy two determinations had to be made.
One was of fact: whether the wheat was sold and bought
for shipment to Tennessee. The other was of law:
whether the fact that the wheat was so sold and bought
makes the transaction one in interstate commerce. Did
that controversy over the character of the commerce draw
in question the validity of the statute or did it draw in
question merely the propriety, that is, the constitutionality, of its application? What the character of the controversy was must be decided upon the record presented here.
The validity of a statute, as was said in Baltimore &
Potomac R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, 224, is
drawn in question whenever the power to enact it "as it
is by its terms, or is made to read by construction, is
fairly open to denial and denied." The power to enact
IThe word "apply" is used in connection with statutes in two
senses. When construing a statute, in describing the class of persons, things or functions which are within its scope; as that the
statute does not "apply" to transactiqns in interstate commerce.
When discussing the use made of a statute, in referring to the process
by which the statute is made operative; as where the jury is told to
"apply" the statute of limitation if they find that the cause of
action arose before a given date. In this opinion it is used in the
latter sense.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDEIS

and

CLARKxE,

JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

§ 571, Kentucky Statutes, as construed by the highest
court of the State, was not fairly open to denial; for the
statute was construed as affecting only intrastate transactions of foreign corporations. See InternationalTextbook
Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Hooper v. California,155 U. S.
648. A writ of error which rested solely upon the challenge of the statute so construed would have presented no
substantial claim and must have been dismissed as frivolous. Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Brown, 187
U. S.308, 311; Sugarman v. United States, 249 U. S.182,
184. Compare Blumenstock Bros. Advertising Agency v.
Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S.436, 441. Nor was the
power to enact § 571 as construed actually denied. The
question decided below and presented for review here is
merely whether this valid statute has been so used-not
construed-as to deny to the plaintiff a privilege or immunity guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
That the character of the commerce-and not the validity of the statute-was the only question actually in controversy and is the only question which the plaintiff actually seeks to present for review, appears from the following statement in its brief filed in this court, as well as
from the supporting argument:
"The sole question for decision by this court is whether
the contract sued on is a part of interstate commerce or
purely a transactionin intrastate commerce. If this court
should conclude that the contract is any part of interstate
commerce, the judgment of the Kentucky Court of Appeals must be reversed; otherwise, it should be affirmed."
A party's conception or characterization of the question
presented by the record is, of course, not conclusive of his
right to a review. The right is determined by the record.
But in this case the record confirms the plaintiff's conception of the question submitted for review. The judgment of the Court of Appeals brought before us is that of
October 17, 1919, which affirmed the judgment below en-

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT.
282.

297

BRA.Dms and CLARxE, JJ., dissenting.

tered after the second trial before a jury. In 1917 the
Court of Appeals, in delivering its first opinion which
directed the second trial, 175 Ky. 774, said:
"This court has heretofore held that section 571, supra,
does not have any application to a foreign corporation,
which is engaged strictly in interstate commerce with
citizens of this State. . . . Hence, if the contract
sought to be enforced was an interstate commerce transaction, the failure to comply with section 571, supra,
would not affect the right of appellee to sue and recover
upon its contract, but if it was an intrastate business, the
failure to have complied with section 571, supra, is fatal
to appellee's right of recovery. . . . So the question for
decision is, was the contract between appellant and appellee one which is protected by article I, chapter 8, paragraph 3, of the Federal Constitution, from regulation by
the State of Kentucky, as being a transaction in interstate
commerce?"
Since 1903 it had been the settled law of the State, as
then declared by its highest court, that § 571 did not
affect transactions in interstate commerce. Commonwealth v. Hogan, MeMorrow & Tieke Co., 74 S. W. 737.'
Thus, before this action was begun, it was the settled law
that such transactions of foreign corporations were not
within the scope of the statute. In 1915, after this action
was begun but before the first trial, that rule was again
applied in Louisville Trust Co. v. Bayer Co., 166 Ky. 744,
746. When, therefore, this case was before the Circuit
Court at the second trial and when it was before the
Court of Appeals for the second time, there clearly was
no actual controversy over the validity of the statute. It
ISee also Ryman Steamboat Line Co. v. Commonwealth, 125 Ky.
253; Commonwealth v. ChattanoogaImplement & Mfg. Co., 126 Ky.
636; Commonwealth v. Eclipse Hay Press Co., 104 S. W. 224; Three
States Buggy & Implement Co. v. Commonwealth, 105 S. W. 971.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BxAZnws and CLAmxE, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

is true that plaintiff had used in pleading language which
imported not only a claim of immunity because the transaction was interstate commerce but also an assertion that
§ 571, if construed so as to affect it, was invalid. But a
review by this court as of right cannot be acquired by
inaccurately describing, or by disguising, the nature of the
constitutional claim actually made. Nor could there have
been a conscious purpose to do this when the reply was
filed. In 1915 the exact nature of the claim under the
Constitution was not material. At that time the denial
of aiiy claim of constitutional right, whatever its nature,
still gave the party a review in this court as of right. It
was the Act of September 6, 1916, which made the division of cases involving constitutional questions into two
classes a matter of substance.
If jurisdiction upon writ of error can be obtained by
the mere claim in words that a state statute is invalid, if
so construed as to "apply" to a given state of facts, the
right to a review will depend, in large classes of cases, not
upon the nature of the constitutional question involved
but upon the skill of counsel. The result would be particularly regrettable, because the decision of such cases
often depends not upon the determination of important
questions of law (which should in the main engage the attention of this court), but upon the appreciation of evidence frequently voluminous. Thus, in proceedings
under State Workmen's Compensation Acts or State Employers' Liability Acts, the question whether a carrier is
liable depends often upon the question whether at the
time of the accident the employee was engaged in interstate or in intrastate commerce. Since the Act of September 6, 1916, certiorari is the proper means of reviewing a
judgment involving that question. Southern Pacific Co.
v. IndustrialAccident Commission, 251 U. S.259. If the
rule now insisted upon obtains, the carrier could in every
such case secure a review on writ of error by simply claim-

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT. 299
282.

BRAiNras and CLARxE, JJ., dissenting.

ing that the state statute is invalid under the commerce
clause if construed so as to apply to the special facts of
the case. Yet it was preeminently the decision of questions like these from which Congress sought to relieve this
court by the Act of September 6, 1916 Likewise, in cases
involving state taxation the validity of the tax often depends upon the question whether the specific thing taxed
was property within or property without the taxing
State-a question which, as held in Dana v. Dana, 250
U. S. 220, and Citizens National Bank v. Durr, ante, 99,
can be reviewed here only on writ of certiorari. If the
rule now insisted upon should prevail, jurisdiction in such
cases could be secured on writ of error by the simple device of claiming that the taxing statute is invalid under
the Fourteenth Amendment if construed so as to apply to
the specific property involved. So, in suits in state courts
against foreign corporations, the question whether there
is jurisdiction depends often upon the question whether
the corporation was doing business within the State and
had expressly or impliedly consented to be sued there.2
The correctness of the decision of a state court of this
question has been held to be reviewable here only upon
certiorari, Philadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron Co. v.
Gilbert, 245 U. S. 162. But if the rule now insisted upon
I See Report of Judiciary Committee, House Doe. No. 794, 64th
Cong., 1st sess., House Rep. vol. 3. Of the cases on the docket for
the preceding term of this court 37 presented the question whether
the employee was engaged in interstate or intrastate commerce. See
New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 168, note 1;
St. Louis, San Francisco & Texas Ry. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156;
Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. Hancock, 253 U. S. 284; Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. Di Donato, 256 U. S. 327; Philadelphia
& Reading Ry. Co. v. Polk, 256 U. S. 332.
2See e. g., Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S.
264; People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79;
Chipman, Limited, v. Jeffery Co., 251 U. S. 373, as illustrating the
issues involved.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1,921.
BRANDEIS and CiAuxE, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

should prevail, jurisdiction on writ of error may be secured by simply making the claim that the state statute is
invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment if construed so
as to apply to the facts of the case.
Plaintiff relies upon a number of cases, assumed to be
similar, in which, after the Act of September 6, 1916,
jurisdiction was (mainly without discussion) taken on
writ of error. They are not in point. In some of them
orders of railroad commissions were challenged as violating the Constitution.' Such an order, unlike decisions of
courts, "being legislative in its nature and made by an instrumentality of the State, is a state law within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States and the laws
of Congress regulating our jurisdiction." Lake Erie &
Western R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission,
249 U. S. 422, 424. In each of these cases, therefore, attacking the validity of the order was drawing in question
the validity of a law. In others the validity of state statutes as construed was actually drawn in question.2 McGinis v. California, 247 U. S. 91, aild McGinis v. CaliUnion Pacific R. R.- Co. v. Public Service Commission, 248 U. S.
67; Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 249 U. S. 422; Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249
U. S. 416; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission,
250 U. S. 566, and St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Public
Service Commission, 254 U. S. 535.
'Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright, 249 U. S. 275; Corn Products
Refining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427; Chalker v. Birmingham &
Northwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522; New Orleans & Northeastern
R. R. Co. v. Scarlet, 249 U. S. 528; Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R.
Co. v. Mullins, 249 U. S. 531; Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, 252 U. S.
41.1; Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412; Missouri Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554; and Merchants' National Bank v.
Richmond, 256 U. S. 635. In Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,
ante, 265, and United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, ante, 277, it was
assumed (in my opinion erroneously) that the situation presented
was similar in this respect to that in Merchants' National Bank v.
Richmond, supra.

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT.
282.

BRANDEIS

301

and CAnimr, 33., dissenting.

fomia, 247 U. S. 95, involved, like the case at bar, the determination whether the transaction in question was one
in interstate or foreign commerce. Although they did not
draw in question the validity of any statute, this court
properly entertained the writ of error in each of those
cases, because, as the original records disclose, the judgment was of a date so early as not to come within the Act
of September 6, 1916. It is true that § 237 of the Judicial
Code, which reenacted § 709 of the Revised Statutes, and
§ 2 of the Act of February 5, 1867, c. 28, 14 Stat. 385, 386,
used, in defining the jurisdiction of this court, the phrase
"where is drawn in question the validity of, a statute."
But under none of these acts could there be occasion for
deciding the question here under discussion; for each contained also the more comprehensive provision giving jurisdiction where any right, title, privilege or immunity
claimed under the Constitution had been denied. And
under § 25 of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789,
c. 20, 1 Stat. 73, 85, which embodied the law prior to 1867,
the conditions were substantially the same. Hence little
help can be derived from the consideration of cases involving judgments entered before the Act of September 6,
1916, became effective.'
'Thus comprehensive constitutional claims were made the basis
of the writ of error in Coe v. Errol,116 U. S. 517, 520, and in Kelley
v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1, 4, which presented the question, whether the
property taxed was in interstate commerce and hence exempt from
taxation under a general law; and in Vicksburg, Shreveport & Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665, 667, which presented the question
whether the charter of a railroad granted tax exemption so that a
later general tax law if applied to it would impair its contract rights;

and in Delaware,Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
198 U. S. 341, 352, which presented the question whether the tax appraisal for the purpose of fixing the value of the capital stock could
include tangible personal property permanently located outside the
State. (See original records.) Compare Planters' Bank v. Sharp,
6 How. 301, 307.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDEIS

and COiRim, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

Nor can we be aided in construing the Act of September
6, 1916, by considering cases arising under § 238 of the
Judicial Code (refnacting § 5 of the Act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 827, as amended). For the
third clause thereof empowers this court to review by writ
of error or appeal decisions of United States District
Courts "in any case that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States." This
comprehensive provision renders immaterial in this connection the nature of the constitutional question. The
specification in the fourth clause, of cases "in which the
constitutionality of any law of the United States . . .
is drawn in question," anid in the fifth clause, of cases "in
which the constitution or law of a State is claimed to be
in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States," adds nothing. Nor can we derive aid from cases
involving review by this court of cases coming from the
Circuit Court of Appeals under § 241 of the Judicial Code
(reenacting § 6 of the act, 26 Stat. 826, 828). For under
it the right of review where available exists regardless of
the nature of the constitutional question.
But cases coming from the District of Columbia and
from the Territories in which a review by this court was
sought (under the Act of March 3, 1885, c. 355, 23 Stat.
443, and under § 250 of the Judicial Code) on the ground
that the validity of an authority or of a statute was drawn
in question, are persuasive as to the meaning of the phrase
drawing in question the validity of a statute, as used in
the Act of 1916. And they were recognized in Ireland v.
Woods, 246 U. S. 323, 329, as controlling. Thus United
States ex rel. Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, 227 U. S.
445, and United States ex rel. Foreman v. Meyer, 227
U. S. 452, hold that the validity of an authority is not
drawn in question where the controversy is confined to
determining whether the facts upon which a person can

DAHNKE-WALKER CO. v. BONDURANT.
282.

303

BuAmDS and CLARxE, JJ., dissenting.

exercise that authority do or do not exist; and the writs
of error were dismissed because the validity was not
"drawn in question" in the sense in which that phrase
is used in the statute, that is, brought forward or made a
ground of decision.It is, of course, permissible to make the claim that a
statute is invalid and also that as administered or applied
it violates a right or immunity under the Constitution.
In such a case the writ of error is clearly appropriate.
But in the case at bar there never has been a real claim
that the statute as construed by the highest court of Kentucky is invalid. The actual claim was and is that a confessedly valid statute was misapplied and, thereby, a constitutional guaranty was violated. A review as of right
is not to be obtained by misdescribing the question in
controversy. When Congress declared that there should
be a review as of right only where the validity of the statute was drawn in question, it did not provide for securing
the right by the use of a form of words--a potent formula
which should operate as an "Open Sesame." It was dealing with substance. It legislated to relieve an overburdened court.
ICompare also Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346, 353; Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210; District of
Columbia v. Gannon, 130 U. S. 227, 229; United States v. Lynch, 137
U. S. 280; Ferry v. King County, 141 U. S. 668; South Carolina v.
Seymour, 153 U. S. 353; Linford v. Ellison, 155 U. S. 503; Taylor v.
Taft, 203 U. S. 461; where the validity of an authority or of a statute was held not to have been drawn in question; with Clayton v.
Utah Territory, 132 U. S. 632; Clough v. Curtis, 134 U. S. 361, 369;
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543; McLean & Co. v. Denver & Rio
Grande R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 47; Smoot v. Heyl, 227 U. S. 518,
522; where such was held to have been drawn in question.

