KERN RIVER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
138.

147

Syllabus.

agreed with the United States that, in consideration of
the benefits to be derived from the construction of the
works through the lands conveyed, the United States
might construct canals and ditches on and across the land,
and further agreed "that in consideration of the premises,
the first party hereby releases the second party from all
claims for damages for entry, survey, or construction of
said works."
The Government adduces the agreement and conveyance in opposition of the right of the Natron Soda Company to recover. The Company resists this effort. We,
however, are not called upon to pass upon it. Independently of the agreement the Company's claim is to be
rejected.
Judgments affirmed.

KERN RIVER COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 50. Argued October 20, 21, 1921.-Decided November 21, 1921.
1. A right of way through public lands or reservations, obtained
through an approval by the Secretary of the Interior of an application under the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, §§ 18-21, 26 Stat.
1095, is neither an easement nor a fee simple absolute, but a limited
fee on implied condition of reverter in the event the grantee ceases
to use or retain the land for the purpose named in the act--irrigation. P. 151.
2. The Act of May 14, 1896, c. 179, 29 Stat. 120, which made special
provision for rights of way through public lands and forest reservations for the purpose of developing electric power, allowing a revocable permit or license and not a limited fee, was superseded by
the Act of February 15, 1901, c. 372, 31 Stat. 790, which deals with
the subject along similar lines. P. 152. Utah Power & Light Co.
v. United States, 243 U. S. 389.

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

3. The Act of May 11, 1898, c. 292, 30 Stat. 404, provided that rights
of way approved under the Act of March 3, 1891, supra, "may be
used for purposes of a public nature; and said rights of way may be
used for purposes of water transportation, for domestic purposes,
or for the development of power, as subsidiary to the main purpose of irrigation.' Held, construing it in the light of legislative
history and administrative construction, that the use "for purposes of a public nature" must be "subsidiary to the main purpose
of irrigation." P. 152.
4. Whether the use of such a right of way for the generation of electric power which is transmitted to other places and there commercially supplied for use in operating electric railways, lighting municipalities and operating pumps on farms and ranches, is to be
classed as a use for "purposes of a public nature" or as a "development of power" within the meaning of the Act of May 11, 1898,
supra, in either event it is a use which that act permits only where
it is subsidiary to irrigation, and can not take the place of the
latter as the main purpose to which the right of way must be
devoted. P. 154.
5. Where such a right of way has never been used for irrigation, and
the grantees are effectually and permanently precluded from so
using it by agreement and by a consent decree, the condition of the
grant is not only broken but rendered impossible of performance,
and the United States is entitled to a forfeiture. P. 154.
6. For the assertion and enforcement of the forfeiture of the grant
an act of Congress declaring it or directing suit is not necessary;
these objects may be accomplished through a suit brought by -the
Attorney General, under his general authority, where no act of
Congress forbids. P. 154.
7. Where the right to a forfeiture is clear, and asserted in the public
interest, a court of equity will not withhold appropriate relief.
P. 155.
8. A suit to enforce a forfeiture of a right of way granted through
an approval by the Secretary, for a breach of a condition subsequent, is not subject to the six year limitation imposed by the Act
of March 3, 1891, c. 559, 26 Stat. 1093, on "suits to vacate and
annul patents." P. 155.
264 Fed. 412, modified and affirmed.

APEAI from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a decree of the District Court and directing

that court to enter another canceling an approval of an

KERN RIVER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147

149

Opinion of the Court.

application for a right of way for canal purposes, which
approval had been granted by the Secretary of the Interior under the Acts of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat.
1095, and May 11, 1898, c. 292, 30 Stat. 404, and enjoining the present appellants from further maintenance of
their canal, unless within a reasonable time they applied
for and obtained a lawful permit or license therefor.
Mr. James A. Gibson, with whom Mr. Roy V. Reppy
and Mr. Henry F. Princewere on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Leslie C. Garnett and Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
A right of'way for a canal, several miles in length,
through lands of the United States in a public forest reserve, in California, is here in controversy. The right of
way was acquired by the Kern River Company, one of the
appellants, through the approval by the Secretary of the
Interior of an original map of the canal on April 14, 1899,
and of an amended map on November 27, 1905. The purpose of the amended map was to conform the right of way
to intervening changes in the line of the canal. The Secretary's approval, in both instances, was sought and was
given under §§ 18-21 of the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561,
26 Stat. 1095, as supplemented by § 2 of the Act of May
11, 1898, c. 292, 30 Stat. 404. The canal was constructed
between July, 1902, and December, 1904, and ever since
has been used for developing electric power, but never
for irrigation. The power is transmitted to other parts of
the State and there commercially supplied for use in operating electric railway systems, lighting municipalities and
operating pumping appliances on farms and ranches. The

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

appellants other than the Kern River Company claim
under and through that company.
This suit in equity was brought by the United States to
obtain (a) a cancelation of the Secretary's approval of
the two maps on the ground that it was obtained fraudulently by falsely representing that the right of way was
sought with irrigation as the main purpose and the development of electric power as a subsidiary purpose, when in
truth the latter was the sole purpose, or (b) a judicial
declaration and enforcement of a forfeiture of the right of
way on the ground that, although granted on condition
that it be used mainly for irrigation, it in fact has been
used solely for developing electric power and its use for
irrigation is precluded by a binding and continuing agreement on the part of the grantee. In the bill the first
phase of the suit is set forth with greater precision and
detail than are shown in the presentation of the other;
but the other is there in full substance.'
The District Court, in a memorandum opinion, said:
"There are two aspects of this bill. One charges fraud perpetrated upon the Government in the application for the grant. The
other relies upon a forfeiture of the grant by reason of the alleged
non-performance by the defendant of the condition subsequent in the
grant or a breach of a continuing covenant.' And also: "The defendant is not using the right of way for irrigation and never has so
used it, and the plaintiff claims that the grant should be forfeited
to the Government for failure to so use said right of way."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, taking a different view, said:
"This is not a suit to declare a forfeiture of a land grant for
breach of condition, but the ordinary suit to set aside the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior on the ground of fraud and mistake."
The appellants, in their brief in this court, speak of the suit as one
"seeking to forfeit the right of way" and also say:
"The bill was brought against appellant, Kern River Company, on
the ground that the right of way had been obtained by fraud and
misrepresentation and upon the ground that appellant was using the
right of way for purposes other than those for which it had been acquired, namely, for purposes other than irrigation or power purposes
subsidiary to the main purpose of irrigation."

KERN RIVER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147.

151

Opinion of the Court.

The bill, while thus assailing the right of way obtained
under the Acts of 1891 and 1898, concedes that the appellants may yet apply for and obtain, under the Act of
February 15, 1901, c. 372, 31 Stat. 790, a permit or license
to use the land for the purpose to which they now are
applying it.
After issue was joined the cause was heard on an agreed
statement of facts supplemented by the testimony of a
single witness and by some documentary proof.
The District Court concluded that the charge of fraud
in procuring the Secretary's approval was not sustained,
and that, in the absence of an act of Congress declaring a
forfeiture or providing for a suit to that end, a forfeiture
could not be decreed by the court. The bill was accordingly dismissed. On appeal by the United States the Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that the charge of fraud
was adequately proved, and also that, if the Secretary
acted with full knowledge of the facts, he exceeded his
authority. So the decree of dismissal was reversed with
directions that a decree be entered canceling the Secretary's approval, and also enjoining the further maintenance of the canal unless within a reasonable time the
claimants applied for and obtained a lawful permit or
license to use the same. 264 Fed. 412.
The Act of 1891, §§ 18-21, provided for rights of way
through the public lands -and reservations of the United
States for ditches, canals and reservoirs for the purpose
of irrigation, but not for any other purpose. These rights
of way were to be obtained by making application at the
local land office and ultimately securing the approval by
the Secretary of the Interior of a map of the ditch, canal
or reservoir. There was no provision for a patent. The
grant was to become effective when .the approval was
given; that is to say, the right of way was then to vest
in the applicant for the purpose indicated in the act. The
approval, once given, could not be recalled or annulled by

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

the Secretary, either for fraud practiced in procuring it or
for mistake in giving it. To do that it was necessary to
resort to a suit in equity. Noble v. Union River Logging
R. R. Co., 147 U. S. 165, 172, 176. The right of way intended by the act was neither a mere easement nor a fee
simple absolute, but a limited fee on an implied condition

of reverter in the event the grantee ceased to use or retain
the land for the purpose indicated in the act. Rio Grande
Western Ry. Co. v. Stringham,239 U. S.44, 47.
An Act of May 14, 1896, c. 179, 29 Stat. 120, made express provision for rights of way Jirough the public lands
and forest reservations for the purpose of developing electric power; but this act differed from the one of 1891 in
several respects, the one of most significance being that
what the beneficiary was to receive was a revocable permit
or license, and not a limited fee. This act was superseded
by that of February 15, 1901, supra, which deals with the
same subject along similar lines. Utah Power & Light Co.
v. United States, 243 U. S. 389, 407.
The Act of May 11, 1898, enacted while those of 1891
and 1896 were in force, provided in its second section:
"That the rights of way for ditches, canals, or reservoirs
heretofore or hereafter approved under the provisions of
sections eighteen, nineteen, twenty, and twenty-one of the
Act entitled 'An Act to repeal timber-culture laws, and
for other purposes,' approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, may be used for purposes of a public
nature; and said rights of way may be used for purposes.
of water transportation, for domestic purposes, or for the
development of power, as subsidiary to the main purpose
of irrigation."
This section did no more than to permit rights of way
obtained under the Act of 1891, the use of which was restricted to irrigation, to be also used for the other purposes named in the section. Irrigation was still to be the
"main purpose" and the other purposes were to be sub-

KERN RIVER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147.

1n,

Opinion of the Court.

sidiary. True, there are in the section words and punctuation from which it might be argued that the ":purposes
of a public nature" were to be independent and might
even be exclusive; but the fair import of the section as a
whole is the other way. Besides, its legislative history
indicates that what actually was intended was to recognize
irrigation as the primary purpose and to make all the
other purposes secondary to it. When the bill was introduced in Congress it contained a provision declaring, without any qualification, that rights of way under the Act of
1891 might be used for supplying water for "domestic,
public, and other beneficial uses." The committee in
charge of the bill sought the views of the Land Department, and the Assistant Commissioner of the General
Land Office submitted a report wherein he criticised that
provision as being too much of a departure from the principle and spirit of the Act of 1891 and recommended that
it be eliminated and the present section substituted in its
stead. In explaining and commending the section he
said: "If it were allowable to use the right of way for
domestic or public purposes or for certain other purposes,
which will not diminish the amount of water available
for irrigation, as subsidiary to the main purpose of irrigation, the act of 1891 would be much more satisfactory in
its operation and the intention of the act as conferring
a general benefit would be fully subserved." The bill was
amended in accordance with his recommendation and was
enacted in that form. House Report, No. 2790, 54th
Cong., 2d sess.; House Report, No. 279, 55th Cong., 2d
sess. In administering the Act of 1891 as thus supplemented the Secretary of the Interior was called upon to
construe the section on several occasions and his decisions
were uniformly to the effect that it regarded irrigation as
the controlling purpose and all the other uses as essentially subsidiary. See 28 L. D. 474; 32 L. D. 452 and 461;

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

37 L. D. 78; House Doe. No. 5, pp. xii-xiii, 56th Cong., 1st
sess.; Utah Power & Light Co. v. United States, supra.
Even if the meaning were not otherwise made plain, we
should be slow to reject the construction thus put on the
section by the head of the department charged with administering it. Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627.
The appellants take the position that the purposes for
which they are selling the electric power are such as to
make their use of the right of way a use for "purposes of
a public nature" in the sense of that section. But of this
it suffices to say that whether such a use be regarded as
falling under that head or under the one described as the
"development of power," it is a use which the section permits only where it is subsidiary to irrigation. It cannot
take the place of the latter as the main purpose.
With this understanding of the statutes under which
the right of way was obtained, we pass the controverted
charge of fraud in procuring the Secretary's approval-and
come at once to the question of forfeiture.
The right of way, as we have seen, was granted on an
implied condition that it should revert to the United
States in the event the grantee ceased to use or retain it
for the purpose indicated in the statutes. That purposethe main and controlling one-was irrigation. The
agreed statement of facts shows that the right of way
never has been used for irrigation, and also that the appellants are effectually and permanently precluded from
using it for that purpose by reason of an agreement entered into by the grantee and of a judicial decree to the
rendition of which the grantee expressly consented. Thus
it appears that the condition on which the grant was made
has been not only broken but also rendered impossible of
performance. This entitles the United States to assert
and enforce a forfeiture of the grant; and it is for this
purpose that the present suit is brought. True, Congress
has neither declared a forfeiture nor directed the suit; but

KERN RIVER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
147.

155

Opinion of the Court.

this is not a valid objection. In the absence of some legislative direction to the contrary, and there is none, the
general authority of the Attorney General in respect of
the pleas of the United States and the litigation which is
necessary to establish and safeguard its rights affords
ample warrant for the institution and prosecution by him
of a suit such as this. United States v. San Jacinto Tin
Co., 125 U. S. 273, 278-285. A suit brought in virtue of
that authority and otherwise appropriate to the occasion
is authorized by law in the sense of our decisions. See
United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wall 211, 267-268; Atlantic & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Mingus, 165 U. S. 413, 430434; Spokane & British Columbia Ry. Co. v. Washington
& Great Northern Ry. Co., 219 U. S. 166, 173-174. This
suit meets these requirements.
The appellants invoke the rule that a court of equity
usually is reluctant to lend its aid in enforcing a forfeiture.
But-where, as here, the right to the forfeiture is clear and
is asserted in the public interest, equitable relief, if otherwise appropriate, is not withheld. Farnsworthv. Minnesota & Pacific R. R. Co., 92 U. S. 49, 68; Union Land &
Stock Co. v. United States, 257 Fed. 635.
The statute placing a limitation of six years on the time
within which "suits to vacate and annul patents" may be
brought (Act March 3, 1891, c. 559, 26 Stat. 1093) is also
relied on. But in so far as this suit seeks to enforce a forfeiture for a breach of a condition subsequent it plainly is
not a suit to vacate or annul a patent and so is not within
the statute.
We conclude that the United States is entitled to a decree declaring and enforcing a forfeitie. This renders
it unnecessary to deal with the other phase of the suit.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly so modified as to direct the District Court to enter
a decree declaring and enforcing a forfeiture of the right
of way, and also enjoining the appellants from further

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

occupying or using the land, unless within some reasonable time, to be fixed by that court, they apply for and
obtain a right or license to use the same under the Act of
February 15, 1901, or some other applicable statute, and
as so modified is affirmed.

Decree modified and affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. PHELLIS.
APPEAL FROM TH
No. 260.

COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued October 11, 1921--Decided November 21, 1921.

1. Substance and not form should conttl In tth application of the
Sixteenth Amendment and the Income tax laws enacted under it.
P. 168.
2. The Income Tax Law of October 3, 1913, in declaring that thd tax
shall be laid on gains, profits and income derived from dij~jdends,
means, not that everything in the form of a dividend must be
treated as income, but that income derived in the way of -dividends
shall be taxed. P. 168.
3. Income defined (p. 169) as in Eisner v. M44ner,252 U. S. 189.
4. With the concurrence of 90% of the stockholders of a torporation,
a plan of reorganization was e ected, pursuant to Which a new corporation with an authorized capital stock nearly four times as
great in par value as the aggregate stock and bonded indebtedness
of the old was formed under the laws of a different State, all the
assets of the old were transferred to the new, as a going cone~tu) 1Ieluding the good will and a large surplus, and, if W6'ilderation, the
old corporation retained money enough to redeem part of its bonds
and received (1) the new company's debenturestock of par value
sufficient to redeem the remainder, retire its own preferred stock
"and leave in its treasury an amount equal in par value to its own
outstanding common stock, and (2) the new compan's oblmon
stock of par value double the amount of the old company's outstanding common stock, which the latter immediately distributed
to its common stockholders as a dividend, paying them two shares
of the new for each of the old. Upon completion of the transaction, October 1, 1915, the personnel of the stockholders and officers
of the two corporations was identical, the stockholders having pro-

