HUNT v. UNITED STATES.
118.

125

Syllabus.

and extent fairly within the scope of a cleaning, alteration
and repair of the ditch system and necessary to promote
its usefulness.
While the principles of law applicable to this proceeding are well settled, we have preferred to again refer thus
briefly to the controlling cases rather than to dismiss the
petition in error.
It results that the motion to dismiss will be overruled
and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCRYNqOLDS concurs in result.

HUNT, EXECUTOR OF WEIGHEL, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM T1E COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 38. Argued October 17, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. United States v. Utah, Nevada & CaliforniaStage Co., 199 U. S.
414, followed to the effect that a general stipulation in a mailcarriage contract obliging the contractor to perform new, additional
or changed service without additional compensation, when ordered
by the Postmaster General, does not authorize the exaction without
pay of a heavy and expensive service not within the contemplation
of the parties. P. 127.
2. Where a contract for mail-carriage was sublet, without filing a
,copy of the sub-contract under c. 116, 22 Stat. 54, or obtaining the
written consent of the:Postmaster General, required by ยง 2, c. 107,
20 Stat. 62, and the Government, though accepting the service performed by the subcontractor, neither had nor recognized any contractual relation except with his principal, treating the former as
the agent of the latter, an action in the Court of Claims for extra
service exacted by the Government over his protest, but performed
by the subcontractor, was properly brought by and in the name of
the contractor. P. 128.
55 Ct. Chms. 77, reversed.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

APPmI from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
against the claimant, in an action to recover for extra
mail-carriage service.
Mr. A. C. Travis and Mr. Burt E. Barlow, with whom
Mr. A. R. Serven was on the brief, for appellant.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett, with whom
Mr. Frank Davis, Jr., and Mr. Joseph Stewart, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, and Mr. Win. D.
Harriswere on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE, CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims in favor of the United States.
On January 17, 1895, appellant's decedent, William
Weighel, entered into a written contract with the United
States for the transportation of mail on route No. 235,001,
"being covered regulation wagon mail messenger, transfer, and mail station service," between designated points
in the City of Chicago, Illinois, for the term of four years,
commencing on July 1, 1895.
On February 6, 1895, Ezra J. Travis contracted in writing with Weighel to perform the entire contract for somewhat less than the latter was to receive from the Government. The Postmaster at Chicago and the Postmaster
General were advised of this subletting, and for the entire
four years during which Travis performed the contract he
was recognized by the Post Office Department as a subcontractor, performing Weighel's obligations under the
contract. The full amount stipulated for in the contract
was paid by the Government, all payments being made to
Weighel, who made settlement with Travis.
At the time Weighel bid on the route no mail service
was being performed by contractors in Chicago to and
from street cars, and the advertisement of the Post Office
Department for proposals did not mention such service,

HUNT v. UNITED STATES.
125.

Opinion of the Court.

but, on the contrary, before he made his bid, Weighel
was notified by the Postmaster at Chicago, who was
authorized by the Postmaster General to give information
to bidders, that the successful bidder would not be required to perform such service.
On November 14, 1895, about four months after Travis,
as subcontractor, entered upon the performance of the
contract, and again on May 12, 1896, and on February 27,
1897, and May 3, 1897, the Postmaster General issued
orders requiring the contractor to perform specified mail
service to and from street cars in Chicago. The Government claimed that this new service was within the scope
of Weighel's contract, but he claimed that it was not, and
performing it under protest he notified the Government
that compensation therefor would be demanded. Travis
performed all of the extra service for Weighel and the
Court of Claims found that he was obliged to employ
twenty-four men, four double vans and seven single
wagons to perform the service which had previously been
performed by four drivers and four single wagons, and
that the reasonable value of the extra service imposed by
the orders of the Postmaster General was $52,327.60.
This suit, brought by Weighel to recover the fair value
of the extra service rendered, has since his death been
prosecuted by his executor.
The Court of Claims decided that because Travis performed all of the extra service which was the subject of
the suit, Weighel had no interest in the subject-matter of
it and dismissed the petition.
We agree with the lower court that the contention of
the Government cannot be allowed, that the extra service
rendered was within the paragraph of the contract providing that the contractor is "to perform all new or additional or changed covered regulation wagon mail messenger, transfer, and mail station service that the Postmaster General may order in the City of Chicago, Illinois,

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

during the contract term, without additional compensation." This paragraph is in precisely the terms quoted
and considered in United States v. Utah, Nevada & CaliforniaStage Co., 199 U. S. 414, which on this point plainly
rules the case before us and gives the appellant a right of
action unless it is defeated by the fact that Travis instead
of Weighel performed the service.
The finding of the Court of Claims is that while the
Government had notice that Weighel had sublet his
contract and while in practice it recognized Travis as a
subcontractor, yet no copy of the subcontract was filed
with the Department, as is provided for in c. 116, 22 Stat.
53, 54, but that, on the contrary, Travis certified to the
Postmaster General that he did not intend that "the
contract should be filed for recognition by the Department or as a lien against the pay of the -contractor."
Thus, while the Government accepted service from Travis,
it consistently retained its contract relation with Weighel
during the entire four years. Three of the four orders for
the extra service were addressed to Weighel and the
second of the four, which was addressed to Travis, probably by inadvertence, contained, as each of the others did,
a requirement that the "contractor" should perform the
service designated without additional pay, "in accordance with the terms of his contract." All payments were
made to Weighel and it was from him that the protest
came against being required to perform the extra service
and the notice that extra pay would be demanded for it.
While Travis was called a subcontractor, he was treated
by all concerned throughout the entire transaction as if
he were (and he seems to have so regarded himself) a
mere agent, performing for Weighel. The Goyernment
did not have, and did not by any implication recognize,
any contractual relations whatever with Travis, and if he
had failed in performing it would not have had any right
of action against him, for the subletting of such a contract

CRESCENT OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
125.

Syllabus.

was forbidden by statute, except with the consent in writing of the Postmaster General, which was never given.
(c. 107, 20 Stat. 62, ยง 2.) Weighel was the only person
legally bound to perform the original contract; it was
from him that the Government demanded the extra service, and under the facts found by the lower court the obligation to pay for that service was to him, whether he performed it personally or through another. The Government accepted performance of the extra service by Travis
precisely as it accepted performance by him of the obligation under the original contract and the law requires
payment to Weighel for the former as much as it required
the payment which was made to him for the latter.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Claims
must be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
CRESCENT COTTON OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

No. 41. Argued October 17, 1921.-Decided November 14, 1921.
Plaintiff in error, a Tennessee corporation, engaged in the manufacture of cotton-seed oil in that State, finding it impracticable to
carry on the business successfully when purchasing its supply of
cotton seed from ginners or from brokers, acquired and operated
cotton gins in Mississippi and other States, where it ginned cotton
for cotton growers, purchased from them the seed thus separated
from the fiber and then shipped it to its Tennessee factory. Mississippi passed a law forbidding corporations interested i the manufacture of cotton-seed oil from owning or operating cotton gins,
except of a prescribed capacity and in the city or town where their
oil plants were located.
Held: (1) That, since the ginning was merely manufacture; and the
seeds were not in interstate commerce until purchased and com-

