66

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

scribe the District as "including the river Potomac in
its course through the District," which imports an assertion by Congress that the title of the United States embraces the whole river bed; and the jurisdiction of the
District over the river seems to have been exercised without dispute. For cases that have reached the reports see
Alexandria Canal Railroad & Bridge Co. v. "Districtof
Columbia, 1 Mackey, 217, 225, 226. Smoot v. District of
Columbia, 23 App. D. C. 266. Evans v. United States,
31 App. D. C. 544.
It may happen that such filling as is done in this case
will interrupt previously existing access to the water front.
But that does not affect the right of the United States to
possession of the land. What other rights, if any, the
plaintiff in error may have does not concerAt us now.
Judgment affirmed.
SPRINGFIELD GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY v.
CITY OF SPRINGFIELD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IllINOIS.

No. 46. Argued October 19, 1921.--Decided November 7, 1921.
State legislation permitting a city owning an electric plant to sell
electricity to private consumers and fix the rates by ordinance or
resolution of the city council while subjecting a competing private
corporation to regulation of its rates by a public commission, held
not to deny the corporation the equal protection of the laws.
Illinois Public Utilities Act, June 30, 1913, §§ 33, 34. P. 69.
292 Il. 236, affirmed.
THE plaintiff in error brought this suit in a circuit court
of Illinois to enjoin the City of Springfield from operating
its plant for the production and sale of'electricity to private consumers without having first filed rates, etc., as required by the Public Utilities Act of the State (Laws 1913,
p. 459). A decree dismissing the bill was ultimately

SPRINGFIELD GAS CO. v. SPRINGFIELD.
66.

67

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

affirmed by the state Supreme Court, whose decision is
brought here by the present writ of error.
Mr. Philip Barton Warren and Mr. Joseph S. Clark,
with whom Mr. William L. Patton was on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
A municipal corporation which supplies its inhabitants
with electricity, gas or water, does so in its capacity of a
private corporation, and not in the exercise of its powers
of local sovereignty. Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water
Co., 172 U. S. 1; Los Angeles v. Los Angeles Gas Corporation, 251 U. S. 32; Safety Wire Co. v. Baltimore, 66
Fed. 140; Walker v. Rock Island, 146 Ill. 139; Springfield
v. Springfield Gas Co., 292 Ill. 236.
In exercising its private functions a municipality is,
from every viewpoint and for every purpose, a private
corporation.
The patron of a public utility service furnished by a
municipality has the same rights to reasonableness of
rates and equality of facilities as the patron of service
furnished by any other private corporation.
A municipality furnishing public utility service owes
the same duties and obligations to its patrons that any
other private corporation does.
The attempted exemption of municipally operated
commercial plants by § 10 of the Utilities Act is void, as
being in violation of both the state and federal constitutional provisions against class legislation, because it is a
special immunity granted the commercially operated
municipal plant and relieves it from the same regulations
imposed on the like plant of all other private corporations.
The regulation provided for in the Municipal Ownership Act is not of the same kind provided for in the
Utilities Act.
The reason assigned by the Illinois court, as a substan.
tial distinction, justifying the exemption of municipal

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

plants, viz, that because municipal records are open to
inspection it is not necessary to require their utility rates
to be published and approved by the State Commission,
is untenable.
The other reason assigned, viz, that they may not
profit to the same extent as plants operated by other
private corporations, is also not tenable.
Under the Illinois court's interpretation of the act,
that the city must fix rates sufficient to produce the
revenue specified (§ 12), no higher, no lower, the city can
not be required to fix reasonable rates.
Any legislative attempt to deny the city profits to the
same extent as that granted other corporations in the
operation of a utility, would be unconstitutional.
That one owner may not profit to the same extent as
another does not constitute the kind of difference that
justifies its exemption from regulation.
The elimination of the provisions exempting municipally owned utilities does not extend the scope of the
Utilities Act beyond the intention of the legislature, as by
§ 83 it expressly manifested its intention to exempt
municipalities only in the event it could do so without
violating the Constitution.
Mr. Bayard Lacey Catron, with whom Mr. Albert D.
Stevens was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMRs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the plaintiff in error,
a private gas and electric company, to restrain the defendant City from producing and selling electricity to
private consumers without first filing schedules of rates
and printing and posting the same as required by §§ 33,
34 of the Public Utilities Act of June 30, 1913. [Laws
1913, p. 459.] The bill was dismissed on demurrer by
the Court of first.instance. An appeal was taken to the

SPRINGFIELD GAS CO. v. SPRINGFIELD.
66.

69

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court where the decree was affirmed on rehearing, after a previous decision the other way. The Public
Utilities Act and the Municipal Ownership Act [Laws
1913, p. 455] were enacted by the State of Illinois within
a few days of each other and, according to the Supreme
Court of the State, as parts of a single plan. The former
excepts municipal corporations from its requirements
and the latter allows cities to go into this business among
others and to fix the rates, which in the plaintiff's case are
subject to the approval of the State Public Utilities Commission. The plaintiff contends that the exception of
municipal corporations from the Public Utilities Act is
void under the Fourteenth Amendment and that the act
should be enforced as if the exception were not there.
It might perhaps be a sufficient answer to the plaintiff's
case that the Supreme Court has intimated after careful
consideration that the Utilities Act must stand or fall as a
whole, so that if the plaintiff's attack upon the exception
were sustained the whole statute would be inoperative
and the only ground of the suit would fail. The plaintiff
attempts to reargue the question, but upon this point the
decision of the State Court would be final and would
control. However, as the Supreme Court did not stop at
that point, but, assuming that under the law of Illinois
the plaintiff had a standing to demand the relief sought if
its case was otherwise good, went on to decide the validity
of the exception, we think it proper to follow the same
course and to deal with the constitutional question raised.
The plaintiff's argument shortly stated is that in selling
electricity the city stands like any other party engaged in
a commercial enterprise and that to leave it free in the
matter of charges while the plaintiff is subject to the
Public Utilities Board is to deny to the plaintiff the equal
protection of the laws. But we agree with the Supreme
Court of the State that the difference between the two
types of corporation warrants the different treatment that
they have received.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court. •

257 U. S.

The private corporation, whatever its public duties, is
organized for private ends and may be presumed to intend
to make whatever profit the business will allow. The
municipal corporation is allowed to go into the business
only on the theory that thereby the public welfare will be
subserved. So far as gain is an object it is a gain to a
public body and must be used for public ends. Those who
manage the work cannot lawfully make private profit
their aim, as the plaintiff's directors not only may but
must. The Supreme Court seems to interpret the Municipal Ownership Act as limiting the charges allowed to
what will be sufficient to meet outlays and expenses of
every kind, thus emphasizing the purely public nature of
the interests concerned and excluding the latitude for
wrong that the plaintiff fears. The Court further says
that the municipalities can exercise their power to make
all needful rules and regulations only by ordinances and
resolutions as in other public action. It calls attention
to the fact that the accounts are regulated by law and
open to the public eye, and that the consumers in this as
in the other case may have a resort to the courts.
The plaintiff did not venture to contend that the submission of similar duties of different bodies to different
tribunals was of itself unconstitutional, or that the fixing
of rates might not be entrusted to city councils. But the
fact that the municipality owned the plant for which its
council fixed the rate was supposed to disqualify its
officers, at least when other plants were submitted to the
judgment of strangers. But a city council has no such
interest in the city's electric plant as to make it incompetent to fix the rates. Whatever the value of the distinction between the private and public functions of the
municipality, the duty of its governing board in this
respect as we have said is public and narrowly fixed by
the act. The conduct of which the plaintiff complains
is not extortion but, on the contrary, charging rates that

NICHOLAS v. UNITED STATES.
66.

71

Statement of the Case.

draw the plaintiff's customers away. The standard for
these rates, however, according to the Supreme Court, is
fixed by the legislature. If the rates had been fixed by
law at the present amounts it would be vain to deny their
validity. The trouble with the plaintiff's argument is
that it attempts to go behind the interpretation that the
Supreme Court has given to the acts concerned and to
overwork the delicate distinction between the private and
public capacities of municipal corporations. It is unnecessary to refer to the numerous cases upon classification by state laws in order to show that the distinction in
question here is very far from being so arbitrary that we
can pronounce it bad.
Decree affirmed.

NICHOLAS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 10. Argued October 5, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.

1. A person who has been removed from a place in the classified civil
service, by the proper authority, but without charges or opportunity to answer, in violation of § 6 of the Act of August 24, 1912,

c. 389, 37 Stat. 555, can not recover subsequent salary attached to
the position if he has not been diligent in asserting his rights.
P. 75.

United States v. Wickersham, 201 U. S. 390, distinguished.

2. After summary removal, without charges, from the office of
Inspector of Customs, claimant did nothing for his vNndication for

three years, when he sued for the salary since accrued. Held, that
he had abandoned his title and could not recover. P. 76.
53 Ct. Chms. 463; 55 id. 188, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims in a

suit to recover the emoluments of an office accruing after
appellant's unlawful removal from it. See also post,
77, 82.

