114

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

did err is clear from what we said in MissouriPacific R. R.
Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554, decided since entry of the judgment under review. Section 10 of the Federal Control
Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451, 456, permitted
enforcement of liabilities against carriers while under
federal control except "in so far as may be inconsistent
. . . with any order of the President." It was within the
powers of the Director General to prescribe the venue of
suits; and the facts set forth in the order show both the
occasion for it and that the venue prescribed was reasonable.
Writ of error dismissed.
Writ of certiorarigranted.
Judgment reversed.
LOUISIANA & PINE BLUFF RAILWAY COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 291. Argued October 14, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. In a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, a claim that the order was unsupported by evidence can
not be considered if only part of the evidence taken before the
Commission is introduced in the suit. P. 116.
2. One of numerous lumber tap lines whose allowances, under joint
rates and through routes with trunk lines, were fixed lEy the Commission with reference to length of tap-line haul, added to its haul
a preliminary out-of-line movement to a scales, where it weighed
the shipments. The Commission, finding no necessity for weighing by the tap line rather than by the trunk line, and that an
increase of allowance based on such out-of-line haul would result
in discrimination unjust to other tap lines and open the way for
relocation of scales by other tap lines and increases of allowances
amounting to rebates, refused to allow the out-of-line haul to be
considered. Held, that its order was not arbitrary or unreasonable. P. 117.
274 Fed. 372, affirmed.

LOUISIANA &P. B. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 115
114.

Opinion of the Court.

P,PPAfrom a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.

Mr. Luther M. Walter, with whom Mr. John S. Burchmore was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck
was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. W. R. McFarland,with whom Mr. P. J. Farrellwas
on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JusTricE BRAKDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Louisiana & Pine Bluff Railway Company, a common carrier owned by the Union Sawmill Company, serves
it by means of a tap line which connects its mill at Huttig,
Arkansas, with the Missouri Pacific Railway at Dollar
Junction. The trunk line and the tap line joined in establishing through routes and joint rates from the mill to
points on the trunk line and beyond. The division or
allowance given to the tap line out of the joint rates was
large. It was held by the Interstate Commerce Commission to amount to a rebate to the Union Sawmill Company and to discriminate unjustly against the Wisconsin
Lumber Company, an independent concern also served by
the tap line.' After proceedings before the Commission,
which extended over many years, its supplemental order,
entered June 10, 1919, limited the division receivable by
the tap line for hauling lumber from the Union Sawmills
ISee The Tap Line Case, 23 I. C. C. 277; 23 I. C. C. 549; 31
I. C. C. 490; 34 1. C. C. 116; Louisiana & Pine Bluff Division, 40

I. C. C. 470; 531. C. C. 475.

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

to Dollar Junction to $3 per car.1 The Louisiana & Pine
Bluff Railway Company then brought this suit in the
Federal District Court for Western Arkansas against the
United States to enjoin enforcement of the order and to
annul the same. The bill charged that the order deprived
plaintiff of property without due process of law; that it
discriminated against plaintiff by denying to it the same
compensation which other carriers were allowed to charge
for like service; and that the Commission was without
authority in law or fact to make the order complained of. The Interstate Commerce Commission intervened. Answers setting forth the proceedings taken were
filed; and, by consent of parties, the case was submitted
for final hearing upon the pleadings. The District Court
entered a decree dismissing the bill, and the case comes
here on appeal under the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32,
38 Stat. 208, 220.
No claim is made here that the division allowed is so
low as to be confiscatory. No claim is made that there
was lack of notice or of opportunity to be heard before the
Commission or that the proceedings before it were otherwise irregular. Nor could a claim that the order was unsupported by evidence be insisted upon. For only a part
of the evidence taken before the Commission was introduced. ManufacturersRy. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S.
457,481; Spiller v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,
253 U.S. 117, 125. The claim now urged is that the order
was arbitrary and so unreasonable that it should be set
aside.
After the decision in The Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1, the
Commission made, in respect to each of the many tap line
1By the fifth supplemental order the maximum division for shipments after May 31, 1919, was raised to $3.50 per car; and a further
increase to $4.50 per car was made by the sixth supplemental order.
Increased Rates, 58 I. C.0.220. Corresponding increases were made

for hauls greater than three miles. These increases do not affect the
legal quetions ivlved.

LOUISIANA & P. B. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 117
114.

Opinion of the Court.

companies which were party to the proceeding, an order,
40 1. C. C. 470, like that sustained in O'Keefe v. United
8tates, 240 U. S. 294. By these orders the maximum
division to a tap line -for hauling a car from the mill to
the junction with the trunk line for a distance of
not more than three miles was fixed at $3. For a distance
over three and not more than six miles the division to the
tap line was fixed at 11/2 cents per 100 poifnds or approximately $9 a car. The plaintiff contends that it should be
allowed to receive the division of 11/2 cents per 100 pounds
on the ground that its haul from the Union Sawmill plants
to Dollar Junction was longer than three miles. Cars
loaded with lumber at the platforms of the Union Sawmills, if hauled direct to Dollar Junction, would travel
only 2.41 miles. But they are not hauled direct to the
junction; they are taken first in the opposite direction to
a track scale located on and controlled by the trunk line.
Because of this fact the distance actually traveled is 3.42
miles. The Commission, interpreting its own order, directed that for this service the plaintiff could not be allowed by the trunk line more than $3. The contention
is that weighing the car is an integral part of the transportation service, In re Weighing of Freight by Carrier,
28 1. C. C. 7; DetroitCoal Exchange v. Michigan Central
R. R. Co., 38 I. C. C. 79; and that to refuse to make an
allowance for the out-of-line haul is arbitrary and so unreasonable as to invalidate the order. For the haul from
the Wisconsin Lumber Company's mill to Dollar Junction, which is 3.24 miles in the direct line, the Commission
authorized the division to the plaintiff of 1 cents per
100 pounds.
The contention that the order is invalid ignores both
the nature of the proceeding before the Commission and
the findings upon which the order was made. The proceeding was one to remove unjust discrimination. The
Commission's decision is based upon a consideration both

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

of general conditions and of the particular situation. It
finds that allowance of more than $3 a car for hauling the
car from the Union Sawmill plant to Dollar Junction
would result in unjust discrimination. That the finding
was supported by evidence we must assume in this proceeding. And not only does plaintiff fail to show that the
conclusion reached was arbitrary; but additional findings
in the report afford abundant reason why the out-of-line
haul to the scales should not be allowed for in fixing the
division. The Commission finds, 53 I. C. C. 475, 476,
that: "The evidence does not show that it is necessary
that the shipments be weighed by the tap line rather than
by the trunk line; " and, 40 I. C. C. 470, 471, that allowing the larger division on these facts would place the
plaintiff in a more advantageous position than any other
tap line in that territory performing a similar service and
would "open the way in the case of many tap lines for a
relocation of their track scales so as to require a long
back haul, and in that way to lay a basis for divisions or
allowances very materially in excess of those fixed by the
Commission for the distance covered by a direct movement from the mill to the junction." In other words,
divisions that would operate as rebates.
Affirmed.
BREIHOLZ ET AL. v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF
POCAHONTAS COUNTY, IOWA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

No. 23. Argued October 7, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. A state law under which a diainage district has been established,
the ditches constructed and the cost assessed upon the landowners in proportion to benefits, all after due notice and opportunity to be heard, does not violate their right to due process,
under the Fourteenth Amendment, in empowering a supervising
board, without further notice, to determine the necessity and

