460

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FALL, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APEAL

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 60. Submitted October 21, 1921.--Decided January 3, 1922.
A regulation of the Secretary of the Interior, providing that, in the
selection of indemnity lands under railroad land grants, a part only
of a minor legal subdivision shall not be assigned as a base unless
the rest of it be also assigned in the same selection list, held a
reasonable administrative measure, and not an arbitrary abridgment or obstruction of the right of selection. P. 464.
49 App. D. C.241; 263 Fed. 637, affirmed.
APFA from a decree of the court below affirming a
decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
which dismissed the bill in a suit against the Secretary of
the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land
Office for a mandatory injunction.

Mr. C. F. R. Ogilby for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Riter and Mr. H. L. Underwood for appelees.
MR. JusTcC V
the court.

DEVANTRR

delivered the opinion of

This is a suit to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior and
the Commissioner of the General Land Office from going
beyond what the plaintiff insists is the limit of their power
and duty in dealing with a selection of indemnity land
under the Act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, which
made a land grant in aid of the construction of a railroad

in California.
The grantee constructed and put in operation the
greater part of the road--495.52 miles-and thereby
earned the right to have the grant fulfilled as to that part.

SOUTHERN PAC.. R. R. CO. v. FALL.
460.

461

Opinion of the Court.

As to the part not constructed-84 miles-the grant was
forfeited. Act September 29, 1890, c. 1040, 26 Stat. 496.
The plaintiff long since succeeded to the rights of the
grantee, and so much of the grant as was not forfeited is
still in process of administration.
The grant, §§ 3 and 18, included all the odd-numbered
sections within prescribed place limits on either side of
the road, save as some of the sections or parts of sections
fell within excepting clauses in the grant; and in lieu of
the lands excepted others were to be selected by the
grantee, or its successor, "under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior," in odd-numbered sections within
prescribed indemnity limits.
Among the excepted lands, usually called "losses" or
"bases for indemnity," was section 15 in a particular township. That section contained 640 acres and each quarter
quarter therein contained 40 acres. In presenting an extended list of indemnity selections the plaintiff sought to
use 15 acres of one of these quarter quarters as the base
for a particular selection without then using the remaining
25 acres; and that selection was rejected on the ground
that under an existing regulation prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior it was not admissible to use a part of
a minor legal subdivision as the base for a selection unless
the remaining part was similarly used in the same list.
Another base had been specified in the beginning, but on
examination in the land office it was found to be a tract
outside the place limifs and the plaintiff then sought to
use the present base in its stead.
In the courts below the plaintiff took the position that
the regulation operated as an arbitrary curtailment of its
right of selection and was not within the scope of the
power and duty of the Secretary, or of the Commissioner,
in administering the indemnity provisions of the grant;
and on that ground the plaintiff sought a mandatory injunction requiring those officers to deal with the selection

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

regardless of the regulation. Both courts held the plaintiff's position untenable and refused the injunction. 49
App. D. C. 241; 263 Fed. 637.
To determine the question presented it is necessary to
have in mind the situation which prompted the adoption
of the regulation and also to understand how it is applied
in actual practice.
The public lands are surveyed and platted, as nearly as
may be, into rectangular tracts known as sections, half
sections, quarter sections, half-quarter sections, and quarter-quarter sections; and, where the lines of the survey
are interrupted by lakes, public reservations, Spanish or
Mexican grants, state or territorial lines, etc., the irregular tracts at the point of interruption are platted and
known as fractional sections, etc., or as lots having particular numbers. After the survey the land officers dispose of the lands only according to these legal subdisions-that is, as sections, half sections, etc.--and regard
the minor subdivisions-quarter-quarter sections and
lots--as not subject to further division, save in exceptional
instances where Congress has specially provided otherwise. Under this practice a right to purchase or enter 40
acres may be exercised by taking a full quarter-quarter
section, but not by taking a part only of each of two or
more minor subdivisions. And the same rule is applied to
relinquishments and lieu selections; that is to say, a right
to relinquish land to which title has been acquired and to
take other land in its stead may not be exercised by exchanging less than a legal subdivision at a time. In short,
where Congress has not specially provided otherwise, the
practice has been, and is, to conform all sales, entries and
other transactions to the subdivisions established by the
survey and to treat the minor subdivisions as indivisible
for all administrative purposes.
While the existence and scope of this practice are shown
in many decisions of the Secretary of the Interior, it suf-

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. FALL.
460.

Opinion of the Court.

fices here to refer to two. In one it is said to be well
settled in the land department "that, in the absence of a
statute making special provision to the contrary, public
lands can be disposed of only according to the legal subdivisions of the public survey," Melder v. White, 28 L. D.
412, 420; and in the other it is said to be "an established
rule" of that department "that parts of minor legal subdivisions of surveyed public lands can not be entered, selected, relinquished, or surrendered, under the public land
laws, except in entries of particular kinds." Southern
PacificRy. Co., 46 L. D. 279, 281.
In the exceptional instances in which Congress has directed otherwise the principle of the practice was not disturbed. All that was done was to provide a special mode
of segregating and 'identifying particular lands which
were being subjected to special forms of disposal which
could not well be adjusted to the lines of the usual survey.
The most conspicuous example of this is found in the laws
regulating the disposal of mineral lands.
The manner of keeping the land office records--which is
according to a system of "tract books,"--and the mode of
checking up and tracing the various land transactions,
have long been adjusted to this practice; and in the judgment of the land officers adherence to it is of much importance.
The regulation in question adapts and applies this general practice to the selection of indemnity lands under
railroad land grants by requiring (a) that the selections be
accompanied by a specification, tract for tract, of the
losses on which they are based, (b) that the selections be
inade by legal subdivisions, and (c) that in specifying the
losses minor legal subdivisions be used in entireties and
not in fragments.
The last part of the regulation is what is challenged
here. As applied and enforced by the land officers it is
not directed against using parts of a minor subdivision as

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

bases for two or more selections where the entire subdivision is used in the same selection list, but only against
using it in fragments to sustain distinct selections in different lists. To illustrate: Parts of a lost quarter quarter
containing 40 acres may be specified as the bases for selecting two or more fractional subdivisions aggregating 40
acres where the selections are all included in a single list,
but not otherwise. And conversely, the loss of two or
more fractional subdivisions aggregating 40 acres may be
made the base for selecting a quarter quarter of 40 acres
where the selection is not made piecemeal in different lists.
Southern Pacific Ry. Co., supra. It, however, is not required that the losses and selections be exactly matched
in quantity, but only that they correspond "as nearly as
legal subdivisions will permit." In other words, reasonable approximation is deemed sufficient and such minor
differences as are practically unavoidable are disregarded.
Florida Central & PeninsularR. R. Co., 15 L. D. 529;
Bull v. NorthernPacificR. R. Co., 26 L. D. 693; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co., 43 L. D. 534; Southern Pacific Ry. Co.,
supra.
Thus understood, the regulation is merely an administrative measure designed to facilitate the examination and
disposal of the selection lists and to be fair alike to the
claimant and the Government. It neither abridges the
right of selection nor unreasonably obstructs its exercise,
but on the contrary leaves the claimant free to select and
obtain indemnity for all losses, if only the lands available
in the indemnity limits are sufficient for the purpose.
When the manifold losses to be indemnified under these
extensive grants are considered, it is apparent that some
regulation of the mode of selection is essential. This is
recognized in the several granting acts, all of which in
substance, or in express terms, as here, provide that the
selections shall be made under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior. These provisions of course cannot

SOUTHERN PAC. R. R. CO. v. FALL.
460.

Opinion of the Court.

be taken as investing the Secretary with authority to
abridge the right to indemnity or to interpose any unreasonable obstruction to its exercise, Payne v. Central
PacificRy. Co., 255 U. S. 228, 236; but in our opinion they
do enable him, in the interest of an orderly and efficient
administration, to prescribe and enforce reasonable regulations respecting the mode'in which the selections shall
be made and brought to the attention of the land officers.
The regulation in question is of that character. Its
evident purpose, as also its material tendency, is to simplify the task of examining and passing on the selections
when presented; to avoid repeated searches to ascertain
the status of the same minor subdivision, such as would
be essential if it were used in fragments as bases for distinct selections made at different times; to guard against
the mistakes incident to such practice; and to conform
the mode of selection to the usual procedure in public
land transactions.
There is nothing in this granting act with which the
regulation conflicts. The grant is of sections and parts
of sections to be identified by the usual survey and is accompanied by a provision, § 6, for a full survey of all lands
within its exterior limits. The lands excepted are to be
identified in the same way as those passing under the
grant, and so of the lands which may be taken as indemnity. Thus the survey is made an element of every part
of the grant. Nowhere in the granting act is there any
suggestion of an intention that the grant or any part of it
shall be administered otherwise than by legal subdivisions.
For these reasons we hold that the regulation is within
the scope of the power and duty of the Secretary of the
Interior.
Decree affirmed.

