CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
SMIETANKA, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS,
v. INDIANA-STEEL COMPANY.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 214. Argued October 14, 1921.-Decided October 24, 1921.
1. An action against a collector of internal revenue to recover taxes
erroneously exacted by him, is based upon his personal liability
and cannot be maintained against his successor in office who had
no part in the assessment, collection or disbursement of the taxes.
P. 4. $age v. United State&, 250 U. S. 33.
2. The statutory provisions for defence by the district attorney and
for withholding execution against the collector and paying the judgment from the Treasury where the judgment contains a certificate
of probable cause, etc., (Rev. Stats., f§ 771, 989) do not create a
new statutory liability attached to the office and passing to successors. P. 4.
3. The Act of February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822, providing that
a suit against an officer of the United States in his official capacity shall not abate by reason of his death or the expiration of his
term of office but may be allowed to be maintained against his
successor, supposes a suit already begun against the officer in his
lifetime. P. 5.
CERTIFICATE from the Circuit Court of Appeals propounding questions arising upon the review of a judg-

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the Indiana Steel Co.

257 U. S.

ment against Smietanka in an action to recover taxes ex.
acted by his predecessor as Collector of Internal Revenue,
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for Smietanka.
Mr. William Beye, with whom Mr. K. K. Knapp and
Mr. R. W. Campbell were on the brief, for Indiana Steel
Company.
The action was properly brought against the collector
who was in office at the time of the commencement of the
suit. The United States has " enacted a system of corrective justice" by which the taxpayer is permitted "to
sue the Government through its collector," and if the tax
"was wrongfully exacted the courts will give him relief
by a judgment which the United States pledges herself to
pay." Cheathamv. United States, 92 U. S. 85, 88; Philadelphia v. Collector, 5 Wall. 720, 733.
The statute requiring the collector to pay the moneys
collected by him into the Treasury took away the common-law action theretofore existing, and provided only a
purely statutory remedy, which, while not in form, is in
substance against the United States. Hubbard v. Collector, 12 Wall. 1, 11, 13; Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236;
Philadelphiav. Collector, 5 Wall. 720, 732; Schoenfeld v.
Hendricks, 152 U. S. 691; Kinney v. Connat, 166 Fed. 720;
United States v. Frerichs, 124 U. S. 315; Kings County
Savings Institution v. Blair, 116 U. S. 200, 205; Arnson v.
Murphy, 115 U. S. 579.
The proper defendant is the collector in office at the
time suit is commenced. Armour v. Roberts, 151 Fed. 846.
The pertinent statutes are, §§ 3220, 3219, 3224, 3226,
3227, 3228, 3210, 771, 3689, 989, Rev. Stats., and Act of
February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822. These "remedial
statutes should be liberally construed to accomplish the
purpose of their enactment.

SMIETANKA v. INDIANA STEEL CO.
I.

Opinion of the Court.

In cases of this kind, the collector is merely the nominal
defendant, and it would seem immaterial whether the
suit was brought against the collector who collected the
money or his successor in office, so long as the Government has an opportunity to defend. The question before
the court is whether the United States has received
moneys which properly belong to the plaintiff.
The arguments advanced in the opinions in Roberts v.
Lowe, 236 Fed. 604; Philadelphia,H. & P. R. R. Co. v.
Lederer, 242 Fed. 492; 239 Fed. 184, are not well founded.
MR. JUSTICE HoL] Es delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought to recover internal revenue special excise taxes for the years 1910 and 1912, assessed
under the Act of Congress of August 5, 1909, c. 6, § 38, 36
Stat. 11, 112; and paid by the plaintiff, the defendant in
error, under duress. The taxes were collected by S. M.
Fitch, then collector of internal revenue, and it was certified by the District Court as part of its judgment that
there was probable cause for the act of the collector, that
he acted under the direction of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and that the amounts recovered should
be provided for and paid out of the proper appropriation
from the Treasury of the United States. The defendant
is the present collector for what was Fitch's district and
was held liable by this judgment. The case was taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals which has certified the following questions:
"1. Assuming that the declaration states a good cause
of action had the suit been brought against S. M. Fitch,
the internal revenue collector who actually collected and
received the taxes, does it state any cause of action whatever against said S. M. Fitch's successor in office, the
plaintiff in error, against whom the suit was brought, but
who had no participation in the collection, receipt or disbursement of such taxes?

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

"2. May suit in the District Court of the United States
properly be brought and maintained against a United
States collector of internal revenue for the recovery of the
amount of a United States internal revenue tax, unlawfully assessed and collected, but in the collection and disbursement of which such collector had no agency, the entire transaction of such assessment, collection and disbursement having occurred during the incumbency of
such office of a predecessor in office of such collector?"
As the law stood before later statutes a collector was
liable personally for duties mistakenly collected, if the
person charged gave notice, at the time, of his intention to
sue, and warning not to pay over the amount to the
Treasury. Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137. But, after
an act of Congress had required collectors to pay o-er
such monies, it was held, against the dissent of Mr. Justice Story, that the personal liability was gone. Cary v.
Curtis, 3 How. 236. Later statutes however recognize
suits against collectors in such cases, and the plaintiff contends that they shQuld be construed to create a new statu-'
tory liability attached to the office and passing to successors, as was held in this case, the formal defendant being
saved from harm by the United States. This however is
not the language of the statutes and hardly can be reconciled with the decision of this Court in Sage v. United
States, 250 U. S. 33, and other cases to which we shall
refer.
To show that the action still is personal, as laid down
in Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33, 37, it would seem
to be enough to observe that when the suit is begun it
cannot be known with certainty that the judgment will be
paid out of the Treasury. That depends upon the c~rtificate of the Court in the case. It is not to be supposed
that a stranger to an unwarranted transaction is made
answerable for it; yet that might be the result of the suit
if it could be brought against a successor to the collector-

SMIETANKA v. INDIANA STEEL CO.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

ship. A personal execution is denied only when the certificate is given. It is true that in this instance the certificate has been made, but the intended scope of the action must be judged by its possibilities under the statutes
that deal with it. The language of the most material enactment, Rev. Stats., § 989; gives no countenance to the
plaintiff's argument. It enacts that no execution shall
issue against the collector but that the amount of the
judgment shall "be provided for and paid out of
the proper appropriation from the Treasury," when
and only when the Court certifies to either of the facts
certi.fied here, and "when a recovery is had in any suit or
proceeding against a collector or other officer of the revenue for any act done by him, or for the recovery of any
money exacted by or paid to him and by him paid into
the Treasury, in the performance of his official duty." A
recovery for acts done by the defendant is the only one
contemplated by the words "by him." The same is true
of Rev. Stats., § 771, requiring District Attorneys to defend such suits.
No different conclusion results from the Act of February 8, 1899, c. 121, 30 Stat. 822. That is a general provision that a suit by or against an "officer of the United
States in his official capacity" should not abate by reason
of his death, or the expiration of his term of office, &c.,
but that the Court upon motion within twelve months
showing the necessity for the survival of the suit to obtain a settlement of the question involved, may allow the
same to be maintained by or against his successor in office.
Whether this would apply to a suit of the present kind is
at least doubtful. Roberts v. Lowe, 236 Fed. 604, 605. In
Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S. 608, a suit against a collector
begun after the passage of this statute, it was held that it
could be revived against his executrix, which shows again
that the action is personal; as also does the fact that the
collector may be held liable for interest. Erskine v. Van

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75. Redfield v. Bartels, 139 U. S. 694.
But in any event the statute supposes a suit already begun against the officer in his lifetime. We need not consider the remedies against the United States. United
States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co., 237 U. S. 28;
Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33. It appears to us
plain without further discussion that both questions must
be answered: - No.
Answers to Questions 1 and 2: No.
MR. JUSTICE McKEwwA

and MR. JUSTICE; CiARKE dis-

sent.
EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF LINCOLN GAS
& ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING OF APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. 29, Original.

October Term, 1920.-Decided October 24, 1921.

Where a decree of the District Court, upholding as adequate a gas
rate fixed by a city ordinance, was affirmed by this court without prejudice to the bringing of a new suit to restrain enforcement
if changed conditions should make the rate confiscatory,Held: (1) That, until such new suit was begun, the ordinance was
established by the decision as the lawful and exclusive measure of
the rates chargeable by the plaintiff gas company. P. 9.
(2) That the original suit did not end until the going down of the
mandate from this court. P. 9.
(3) That a new suit filed at that time, and the granting of a restraining order therein, could affect only the then future operation
of the ordinance, and could not oust the District Court of its jurisdiction, ancillary to the former suit, to award restitution, gauged
by the ordinance rate, of overcharges exacted by the plaintiff from
its consumers during the period between the original decree of that
court and the going down of the mandate. P. 9.
(4) That the ancillary jurisdiction was independent of whether the
plaintiff's injunction bond, in the former suit, was sufficient to cover
the overcharges. P. 10.
Rehearing denied.

