UNITED FUEL GAS CO. v. HALLANAN.
265.

277

Statement of the Case.

and that, therefore, the motion to dismiss the writ of
error should have been granted, but it has seemed to me
important to discuss, as I have done, the question of interstate commerce involved.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JUSTICE BPA

BIS join in

this opinion as to the merits of the controversy. MR.
JUSTICE BRANDEIS also concurs as to the question of

jurisdiction.

UNITED FUEL GAS COMPANY v. HALLANAN,
STATE TAX COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 276. Argued November 9, 10, 1921.-Decided December 12,
1921.
1. A writ of error sustained, following Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, ante, 265. P. 280.
2. Natural gas, collected and purchased by a pipe line company within
a State and moving through its pipes, and the pipes of other companies to which it sells it, in continuous streams destined beyond
the State, is a subject of interstate commerce, the transportation of
which the State may not tax. P. 280.
3. Held, that the interstate character of the gas so destined was not
affected by the right of transporting companies to divert to local
destinations, or by the fact that smaller quantities for local delivery
were commingled with the other and the proportions between the
two were not precisely fixed. P. 281.
87 W. Va. 396, reversed; petition for certiorari dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment sustaining a tax in a suit by the
plaintiff in error to restrain its enforcement. See the preceding case, ante, 265.

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U. S.

Mr. Malcolm Jackson, with whom Mr. R. G. Altizer
and Mr. E. W. Knight were on the briefs, for plaintiff in
error.
The final decree is reviewable by writ of error. Jud.
Code, ยง 237; Merchants' NationalBank v. Richmond, 256
U. S. 635.
Natural gas is an article of commerce and its transportation from one State to another is interstate commerce.
Such transportation is none the less interstate commerce
because accomplished by two or more connecting carriers,
one or more of which operates within the limits of a single
Ptate. -The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Wabash &c. Ry.
Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Norfolk & Western R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Railroad Commission
v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 229 U. S. 336; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S. 371.
In detei'mining whether commerce is interstate or intrastate, regard must be had to its essential character-mere
billing or the place at which title passes is not determinative.
The transportation and sale of natural gas by plaintiff
to other companies for further transportation to points
outside the State, under contracts contemplating such
interstate transportation, were transactions in interstate
commerce, to the extent that said gas was intended to
be and actually was transported outside the State, notwithstanding said gas was delivered by plaintiff to the
purchaser in West Virginia and notwithstanding a relatively small portion of the gas so delivered was resold by
the purchasers to consumers along their lines in West
Virginia. Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249
U. S. 236; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 252 U. S. 23; Ohio R. R. Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 201.
The intrastate business-transportation from points
of production to other localities in the same State, where

UNITED FUEL GAS CO. v. HALLANAN.
277.

279

Opinion of the Court.

the gas is sold to consumers--is conducted by plaintiff
as a public service, regulated by the Public Service Commission. The same pipe lines are used for this transportation as those used for transportation to points outside
the State. Plaintiff, therefore, not having power voluntarily to withdraw from a public service in West Virginia, is required by the decision under review to pay the
tax upon its intrastate business as a condition precedent
to continuing the interstate business. Pullman Co. v.
Adams, 189 U. S. 420; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S.
171; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642;
Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113.
The arbitrary power given the state tax commissioner,
resulting from the failure of the statute to provide a
definite measure of the tax, operates to deprive plaintiff
of its property without due process of law and to deny to
it the equal protection of the laws. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
Mr. Wm. GordonMathews, with whom Mr. E. T. England, Attorney General of the State of West Virginia,
Mr. 'S. B. Avis and Mr. Fred 0. Blue were on the brief,
for defendants in error.
No substantial federal question is involved and the
writ of error should be dismissed and the writ of certiorari
denied. Jud. Code, ยง 237. The court below construed the
statute as imposing a tax only upon those engaged in the
transportation of natural gas in intrastate commerce, and
further construed it as authorizing the tax to be measured only by the amount of such commerce. Merchants'
National Bank v. Richmond, 256 U. S. 635, distinguished.
[See argument in the preceding case, ante, 268, for authorities cited on the merits.]
MR. JusTIcE HoLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity that seeks to restrain the application to the plaintiff of the same statute that has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

considered in Eureka Pipe Line Co.v. Hallanan, just decided, ante, 265. Acts of Extraordinary Session, 1919, c. 5.
The statute taxes the transportation of natural gas as well
as of oil by pipe lines and the plaintiff Gas Company
makes the same objection that was made by the Oil Company in the former case to the constitutionality of the
act, as well as others that it will not be necessary to discuss. The two cases were heard together and were disposed of in a single 'opinion by the Supreme Court of
Appeals. The Circuit Court of the State held the statute
void, but the Supreme Court, as before, upheld it as valid
with regard to intrastate business "as above defined"
and defined the plaintiff's business as intrastate. The
plaintiff drew in question the validity of the statute "as
construed and applied," Merchants' NationaZ Bank v.
Richmond, 256 U. S.635, and took this writ of error. It
also filed a petition for a writ of certiorari. For the
reasons given in the Eureka Case the writ of error will be
entertained and the petition for certiorari dismissed.
The case was heard upon the pleadings and a stipulation as to facts. It appears that the plaintiff gathers and
purchases natural gas, mostly in West Virginia, and distributes it through its pipes which extend to or beyond the
state line in various places and also connect with the pipes
of other companies that extend beyond the State. The
total amount dealt with by the plaintiff in the year ending July 1, 1919, was 54,973,588 M cubic feet of which all
but a little over a million M cubic feet was gathered in
West Virginia. There were sold directly to consumers in
West Virginia 11,590,656 M cubic feet; a little over
10,000,000.M cubic feet to consumers in other States;
and the remainder was sold to four connecting companies.
It is admitted that the gas sold to one of these, the Ohio
Fuel Supply Company, is transported in interstate commerce, so that that may be laid on one side. Another of
them is the Columbia Gas & Electric Company. Ninety-

UNITED FUEL GAS CO. v. HALLANAN.
277.

281

Dissent.

nine per cent. of the gas received by it is carried out of
the State and sold, yearly. A third is the PittsburghWest Virginia Gas Company which yearly disposes of
eighty-eight per cent. of the gag in the same way. The
fourth is the Hope Natural Gas Company, which in like
manner carries sixty-seven per cent. of the gas bought
from the plaintiff out of the State and sells it there.
In short the great body of the gas starts for points outside the State and goes to them. That the necessities of
business require a much smaller amount destined to
points within the State to be carried undistinguished in
the same pipes does not affect the character of the major
transportation. Neither is the case as to the gas sold to
the three companies changed by the fact that the plaintiff,
as owner of the gas, and the purchasers after they receive
it might change their minds before the gas leaves the
State and that the precise proportions between local and
outside deliveries may not have been fixed, although they
seem to have been. The typical and actual course of
events marks the carriage of the greater part as commerce
among the States and theoretical possibilities may be left
out of account. There is no break, no period of deliberation, but a steady flow ending as contemplated from the
beginning beyond the state line. Ohio R. 1?. Commission
v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108. United States v.
Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324, 367. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 113. We have mentioned only such facts as are sufficient for our decision,
and have not noticed other objections urged against the
law. What we have stated seems to us enough to condemn it as applied to this case.
Decree reversed.
Petition for certioraridismissed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANExs

MR. JUSTICE CtAR
tional question.

dissents.

also dissents as to the jurisdic-

