138

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

The record before us shows that, before the law assailed
was enacted, cotton gins had been operated in Mississippi
by individuals as well as by corporations, but there is no
showing that oil mills und cotton gins were both operated
by an individual or by groups of individuals, and we think
it may well be assumed, under the rule stated, that because of the.larger capital required, and perhaps for other
reasons, oil mills and cotton gins may have been operated
in that State, only by corporations, and that for this reason the restrai#,t of the evil aimed at by the act of the
legislature could be accomplished by controlling corporations only. Assuming this to be the fact when the law was
enacted, obviously the classification objected to can not be
pronounced so without reasonable basis as to be arliitrary.
A number of minor contentions are discussed in the
briefs. These have all been considered, but are found to
be not of sufficient substance to deserve special disdussion.
It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi will be
Affirmed.
JOAN THORSTMANN COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
NATRON SODA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 26, 32.

Argued October 7, 1921.-Decided November
21, 1921.

In actions in the Court of Claims for damages resulting from an
unforeseen flooding of claimants' soda lakes following construction
and operation of a government irrigation project by which water
was brought into the watershed,Held: (1) That allegations that the water percolated through the
ground, due to lack of proper lining in the Government's canals
and ditches, the manner of their construction and the natural con-

EORSTMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
138.

139

Argument for Appellant.

ditions, were not intended to set up negligence but merely to show
causal connection between the project and the flooding, and hence
did not characterize the cause of action as ex delicto. P. 144.
(2) That, as no intentional taking of claimants' property could
be implied, the Government was not liable ex contractu, assuming such causal relation. P. 145. United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445, distinguished.
54 Ct. Clms. 169, 214; 55 id. 66, affirmed.

APPEALS from judgments denying recovery for damages
resulting from the flooding of claimants' soda lakes.
Mr. Edward M. Cleary and Mr. Thomas A. Allan, for
appellant in No. 26, submitted.
In the present case there is a taking as fully as in
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, i. e., the land is
completely submerged and destroyed for all purposes for
which it can be used. In Gibson v. United States, 166
U. S. 269, the only damage was the loss or inconvenience
resulting from an improvement in the navigable waters
(which the Government had a right to make), making access to the land more difficult from the waterfront.
In Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217, the G6vernment's acts were of the character that every riparian
owner has the legal right to perform, i. e., to protect his
own lands from overflow by the building of structures to
prevent the overflow.
Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1, is likewise a case
involving riparian rights and subservience of private owners to the right of the Government to improve the navigability of a river. 48 Ct. Clms. 423. So of Heyward v.
United States, 46 Ct. Clms. 484, affirmed by a divided
court, 250 U. S. 633.
In United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, we have a case
of taking not even as strong as this one, where the question is of supplying irrigation facilities and not navigation.
The water-level of the river is the height of the river,
and the water-level of the land is the ground-water

140

OCTOBER TERM, 192i
Argument for the United States.

257 U. 9.

level, which the Government in the present case admits
raising.
The proposition that a private party would not be liable
in this case is not the law in the arid States where irrigation is mostly practiced or where the irrigation was carried on in this case. [Citing authorities.]
Mr. Frank S. Bright and Mr. H. Stanley Hinrichs, for
appellant in No. 32, submitted. (They also moved to remand for further findings.)
The court below made a fundamental error in considering that this case presented only the question of the rights
of parties respecting percolating waters. The defendant
brought into Carson River Valley an immense amount of
surface water from the Truckee River, and transported it
at the surface in its ditches to the neighborhood of the
claimant's land. As a direct result, some of this surface
water has flooded the land and -destroyed its value. It is
immaterial whether the water entered the land by overflow or by seeping. It is not the medium through which
the water travels that determines the question of liability,
and it is immaterial whether the course of the water was
observable, or hidden and unobserved, so long as the result is certain.
Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck for the United States.
The chief reliance of appellants is upon United States
v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, in which the court, divided four
to three, held that where the Government constructed an
embankment along the Mfississippi, whose direct, certain,
immediate and necessary effect was to cause an overflow
upon the lands of the plaintiff, there was a taking within
the Fifth Amendment. From the essential nature of the
act, this court drew the reasonable inference that the
Government intended to overflow Lynah's lands, and thus
to appropriate them. In the cases at bar, however, all
these elements are absent.

HORSTMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
138

141

Argument for the United States.

There must be an intention on the part of the United
States, either expressed or implied, to take the property
of another before there can be any implied promise to pay
or contract liability incurred. This liability may be inferred where the results naturally and indubitably flow
from the act or effect of the act and may be definitely
ascertained or determined. In this case it was impossible
for the United States engineers who laid out this irrigation project to have ascertained or determined what effect
the irrigation of these lands would have upon the waters
of Big and Little Soda Lakes. Tempel v. United States,
248 U. S. 121; Bothwell v. United States, 254 U. S. 231.
The decision in the Lynah Case should not be extended
beyond its reasonable scope. An extension of the rule
could only operate to deprive the Government of its immunity from suits sounding in tort; for it would mean
that, to the extent that any public improvement, whether
carefully or negligently constructed, caused indirect and
remote damage, the property thus damaged was taken for
public use, a proposition which would be obviously absurd. See Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217, and
Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1.
If a private corporation had constructed and maintained these canals under the Carson-Truckee project,
it would not have been liable to the claimants. [Citing
authorities.]
The United States, when it enters upon a public improvement for the common benefit of all the people,
is not in a worse position than a private corporation or
citizen. Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217, 223;
Jackson v. United States, 230 U. S. 1, 21, 22.
Claimants had no vested right in the soda accretions
from the ground waters of that vast section, nor in the
maintenance of a certain density of the water entering
the lakes, nor in the maintenance of the then existing
ground-water level in the valley where the lakes are lo-

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

cated. Lyons v. United States, 26 Ct. Chms. 31, 45;
Cohen v. United States, 162 Fed. 364, 371.
The plaintiff Nlttron Soda Company, having consented
to the construction of the canals and granted the defendants a right of way, is estopped from any right of recovery in the absence of negligence. Daniels v. St. Francis
Levee District, 84 Ark. 333; Lewis, Eminent Domain, 3d
ed., § 474; Wallace v. Columbia &c. R. R. Co., 34 S. Car.
62; Nunnamaker v. Water Power Co., 47 S. Car. 485.
MR.

JusTicE McKEwNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Actions in the Court of Claims to recover respectively
the sums of $35,000 and $170,000 alleged values of certain
properties charged to have been taken and appropriated
by the United States.
Both appellants are corporations, and are respectively
owners of lands in Churchill County, State of Nevada,
surrounding and including lakes known as Little Soda
Lake and Big Soda Lake. The Horstmann Company is
owner of the former and the Natron Soda Company is
owner of the latter.
In 1906 each appellant was manufacturing soda from
the waters of the respective lakes and the controversy of
the cases turns upon the condition of the lakes at that
time, and their condition after an irrigation project was
instituted by the Government, called the Truckee-Carson
Project.
The lakes are situated in an area known as the Carson
Sink Valley, and in 1906 were the source of soda supply
to the respective appellants.
From prior to 1867 to 1906 the levels of the lakes had
not varied more than 2 feet. In 1900 the United States
Reclamation Service acting under the authority of acts of
Congress constructed the Truckee-Carson Project consist-

HORSTMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES. 143
138.

Opinion of the Court.

ing of dams, canals, and other structures whereby through
the usual means large quantities of surface waters theretofore confined to the watershed of the Truckee River were
in 1906 and during each year since then transported to the
watershed of the Carson River and distributed to various
and sundry tracts of land in the Carson River Valley for
irrigation purposes.
Details of the project need not be given but with its
advent the body of the ground water in the entire section
covered by the project rose, and the volume of water in
the lakes has continually increased, and the level of the
lakes has risen about 19 vertical feet during the period of
1906 to 1916, in consequence of which the value of the
properties of appellants has been destroyed, that of the
Horstmann Company being $9,000 and that of the Natron
Company being $45,000, according to the findings of the
Court of Claims.
There have been additions to the canal project and its
ultimate development contemplates the reclamation of
206,000 acres of land. At present the canals of the project
ramify an area of 100,000 acres.
No negligence on the part of the United States is alleged or proven.
The conclusion of the court was that appellants were
not entitled to recover, hence it dismissed the actions and
rendered judgments against appellants for costs of printing the records. Motions for new trials were made and
denied.
The question of the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims
of the actions is intimated, if not urged, based on the allegation in the petition of the Horstmann Company that
owing to the porous condition of the soil in the canals and
ditches and "the lack of proper lining in said canals and
ditches, and owing to the way said canals and ditches were
built, and also to the natural condition existing," the

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

water flowed into the lake and seeped and percolated
through the canals and ditches.'
The Government is cautious in its characterization of
this allegation and says that it "apparently based the
claim of the Horstmann Company upon a tort" and adds
if the claim be so based, the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction "as the Government has never waived its immunity from suit in such cases."
We do not think, however, that the allegation was intended as an accusation of negligence but rather to forestall a defense, based on the character of the works,-that
from them there could be no causal connection between
the project of the Government and the rise of waters in
the lakes. The Court of Claims besides explicitly found
that there was no negligence.
Upon the merits, the contention of the Government is
the absence of such causal connection between its works
and the injury to the properties of appellants. It concedes, however, that the contention is a deduction from
obscure findings, the court not finding affirmatively that
a causal connection did not exist. "Its decision was the
Scotch verdict of ' not proved ' ", to quote counsel.
Appellants oppose the Government's contention and
deductions, oppose to them the difference in conditions
before and after the execution of the canal project, and
their reasoning seems to have the support of the methods
that the world employs in the investigation of its phenomena and instances.
Post hoc, therefore, propter hoc may not be confidently
asserted, but there is a suggestion of effect and cause in
it, of sequence, something more than unrelated occurrence. And of this there seems to be pertinent application in the present case. The transfer of water from one
'The petition of the Natron Soda Company directly alleges that
the acts of the Government were legally done in the exercise of a
constitutional and legal power.

HORSTMANN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
138.

145

Opinion of the Court.

watershed to another-from the Truckee River watershed
to the Carson River watershed--accompanied by an increase of the water in the lakes from a level, not varied in
29 years more than 2 feet, to 19 vertical feet would seem
to demonstrate this as an effect of the canal project.
And there can be no doubt of the adequacy of the cause
even though, to quote from the findings, "percolating
waters are hidden and invisible" and "It does not appear from the evidence how they are governed, or how
they move underground." Their effects above ground,
a rise of water in the lakes from 2 feet to 19 feet of water,
are certainly visible and unmistakable. Indeed, the court
explicitly found that with the advent of the irrigation
project the body of ground water in the entire section covered by the project rose.
However, we need not arbitrate the contentions but will
assume with appellants that there was causal connection
between the work of the Government and the rise of
waters in the lakes, and the consequent destruction of the
properties of appellants, but it does not follow that the
Government is under obligation to pay therefor, as for
the taking of the properties.
The Court of Claims, as we have seen, decided against
such obligation and to its reasoning it would be difficult
to add anything. The reasoning of the court is attacked,
however, by appellants, and United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445, is adduced against it.
The instance of the cited case and a certain generality
in its reasoning and basic principle gives plausible support to the contention. It is declared that the rule deducible from prior cases, which are reviewed, is that the
appropriation of property by the Government implies a
contract to pay its value, and it is further declared that
there need not be a physical taking, an absolute conversion of the property to the use of the public. It is clear
from the authorities, it is said, that, if by publid works

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

the value of the property of an individual is substantially
destroyed, its value is taken, within the scope of the Fifth
Amendment. And it was decided that "the law will imply a promise to make the required compensation, where
property to which the government asserts no title, is
taken, pursuant to an act of Congress, as private property
to be applied for public uses." Tempel v. United States,
248 U. S. 121, 129, 130.
This generality has had exception in subsequent cases.
It is to be remembered that to bind the Government there
must be implication of a contract to pay, but the circumstances may rebut that implication. In other words, what
is done may be in the exercise of a right and the consequences only incidental, incurring no liability. Bedford
v. United States, 192 U. S. 217; Kansas v. Colorado, 206
U. S. 46; Tempel v. United States, supra. And there is
characterization of the Lynah Case in United States v.
Cress, 243 U. S. 316.
We think the cases at bar are within the latter decisions,
and it would border on the extreme to say that the Government intended a taking by that which no human
knowledge could even predict. Any other conclusion
would deter from useful enterprises on account of a dread
of incurring unforeseen and immeasurable liability. This
comment is of especial pertinence. That the result of the
Government's work to the properties of plaintiffs could
not have been foreseen or foretold is a necessary deduction
from the findings of the Court of Claims. The court
found that there is obscurity in the movement of percolating waters, and that there was no evidence to remove
it in tfe present case, and necessarily there could not have
been foresight of their destination nor purpose to appropriate the properties.
In the Natron case the Company's predecessors in interest conveyed a right of way to the United States of certain lands of the Company, and, prior to the conveyance,

KERN RIVER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
138.

147

Syllabus.

agreed with the United States that, in consideration of
the benefits to be derived from the construction of the
works through the lands conveyed, the United States
might construct canals and ditches on and across the land,
and further agreed "that in consideration of the premises,
the first party hereby releases the second party from all
claims for damages for entry, survey, or construction of
said works."
The Government adduces the agreement and conveyance in opposition of the right of the Natron Soda Company to recover. The Company resists this effort. We,
however, are not called upon to pass upon it. Independently of the agreement the Company's claim is to be
rejected.
Judgments affirmed.

KERN RIVER COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 50. Argued October 20, 21, 1921.-Decided November 21, 1921.
1. A right of way through public lands or reservations, obtained
through an approval by the Secretary of the Interior of an application under the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, §§ 18-21, 26 Stat.
1095, is neither an easement nor a fee simple absolute, but a limited
fee on implied condition of reverter in the event the grantee ceases
to use or retain the land for the purpose named in the act--irrigation. P. 151.
2. The Act of May 14, 1896, c. 179, 29 Stat. 120, which made special
provision for rights of way through public lands and forest reservations for the purpose of developing electric power, allowing a revocable permit or license and not a limited fee, was superseded by
the Act of February 15, 1901, c. 372, 31 Stat. 790, which deals with
the subject along similar lines. P. 152. Utah Power & Light Co.
v. United States, 243 U. S. 389.

