478

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

proceeding to recover damages resulting from a tort committed on a Vessel in process of construction when lying
on navigable waters within a State, we answer, yes.
Assuming that the second question presents the inquiry
whether in the circumstances stated the exclusive features
of the Oregon Workmen's Compensation Act would apply
and abrogate the right to recover damages in an admiralty court which otherwise would exist, we also answer, yes.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs in the result.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the decision of this
cause.
DAVIS,

DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ET AL. v. WALLACE ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 329. Argued December 16, 1921.-Decided January 9, 1922.
1. Where the case as made by the bill involves a real and substantial
question under the Constitution and the requisite jurisdictional
amount, the jurisdiction of the District Court, and of this court
upon a direct review of its action, extends to all other questions
involved, whether of federal or state law, and enables the court to
rest its judgment on the decision of such of the questions as in its
opinion effectually dispose of the case. P. 482.
2. Equity will enjoin collection of an illegal tax in the absence of an
adequate and certain remedy at law. P. 482.
3. The Act of North Dakota, Laws 1919, c. 222, which lays an excise
on foreign corporations of a'percentage of their capital actually invested in the transaction of business in the State, provides that,
for one engaged in business within and without the State, investment within the State shall mean that proportion of its entire
stock and bond issues which its intrastate business bears to its total
business; that where the busines within the State is not otherwise

DAVIS v. WALLACE.
478.

Opinion of the Court.

easily and certainly separable, it shall be held to mean such proportion of the entire business as the property of the corporation
within the State bears to its entire property, and that, in the case
of a railroad or other specified public service corporation, whose
line extends into the State from without, property within the State
shall mean the proportion of the entire property of the corporation
which its mileage within the State bears to its entire mileage. Held,
that the mileage basis (declared unconstitutional in Wallace v.

Hines, 253 U. S. 66), was intended to be the exclusive basis for
computing the assessments of such a railroad company, and that
assessments based on the ratio of the value of its railroad within
the State to that of its entire railroad were not authorized by the

statute. P. 482.
4. The unconstitutionality of an excepting provision in a statute does
not enlarge the scope of its other provisions. P. 484.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, after a final
hearing on bill and answer, dismissing a bill filed by the
Director General of Railroads and five railroad companies
to enjoin the collection of a special excise tax sought to be
imposed under North Dakota Laws, 1919, c. 222.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with whom Mr. E. C. Lindley,
Mr. M. L. Countryman and Mr. D. F. Lyons were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. George E. Wallace for appellees.
MR. Jusmics V.& DzvANW
the court.

delivered the opinion of

This is a suit by the Director General of Railroads and
five railroad companies to enjoin the collection of a special excise tax assessed against each of the companies for
the years 1918 and 1919 under a statute of North Dakota,
c. 222, Laws 1919, which declares:
"Every corporation, joint-stock company or association, now or hereafter organized under the law of any
other State, the United States or a foreign country, and

,480

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

engaged in business in the State during the previous calendar year, shall pay annually a special excise tax with
respect to the carrying on or doing business in the State
by such corporation, joint-stock company or association,
equivalent to 50 cents for each $1,000.00 of the capital
actually invested in the transaction of business in the
State; provided, that in the case of a corporation engaged
in business partly within and partly without the State,
investment within the State shall be held to mean that
proportion of its entire stock and bond issues which its
business within the State bears to its total business within
and without the State and where such business within the
State is not otherwise more easily and certainly separable
from such entire business within and without the State,
business within the State shall be held to mean such proportion of the entire business within and without the
State, as the property of such corporation within the
State bears to its entire property employed in such business both within and without the State; provided, that in
the case of a railroad, telephone, telegraph, car or freightline, express company or other common carrier, or a gas,
light, power or heating company, having lines that enter
into, extend out of or across the State, property within
the State shall be held to mean that proportion of the
entire property of such corporation engaged in such business which its mileage within the State bears to its entire
mileage within and without the State. The amount of
such annual tax shall in all cases be computed on the
basis of the average amount of capital so invested during
the preceding calendar year; provided, that for the purpose of this tax an exemption of $10,000.00 from the
amount of capital invested in the State shall be allowed;
provided, further, that this exemption shall be allowed
only if such corporation, joint-stock company or association furnish to the Tax Commissioner all the information
necessary to its computation."

DAVIS v. WALLACE.
478.

Opinion of the Court.

Each of the five railroad companies was subjected in
the usual way to a full property tax on all of its property
within the State, and that tax is not'here in question.
The suit relates only to the special excise tax.
The companies were all organized under the laws of
States other than North Dakota and all own lines of railroad extending from other States into or through that
State. These lines were under federal control and operated by the Director General during the years for which
the excise tax was assessed.
The taxing officers at first assessed the tax for the year
1918 against these companies by using in its computation
the mileage ratio prescribed in the second proviso of the
statute; but this court held that the tax so assessed was
an unwarranted interference with interstate commerce
and a taking of property without due process of law.
Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66. Thereupon the taxing
officers assessed the tax for that year, and also for 1919,
by using in its computation the ratio specified in the last
preceding clause of the statute-that is to say, a ratio
fixed by contrasting the value of the company's railroad
within the State with the value of its entire railroad
within and without the State.
In the District Court the validity of the tax assessed on
the new or substituted basis was challenged on the
grounds (a) that as to railroad companies whose lines lie
partly within and partly without the State the statute
does not authorize or sanction a tax Assessed on that
basis; (b) that the statute imposes the tax only as a special excise on doing business in the State, and these companies were not thus engaged during the years for which
the tax was assessed,--their railroads being then under
federal control and operated exclusively by the Director
General; and (c) that an excise tax assessed against these
companies on the new or substituted basis operates necessarily to burden interstate commerce and to take property

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

without due process of law, and so is in conflict with the
commerce clause of the Constitution and the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
At an early stage in the suit three judges granted an
interlocutory injunction against the enforcement of the
tax; but on the final hearing, which was on bill and answer, a decree was entered dismissing the bill on the
merits. The plaintiffs then sought and were allowed a
direct appeal to this court under ยง 238 of the Judicial
Code.
The case made by the bill involved a real and substantial question under the Constitution of the United States
and the amount in controversy exceeded three thousand
dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, so the case plainly
was cognizable in the District Court. In such a case
the jurisdiction of that court, and ours in reviewing its
action, extends to every question involved, whether of
federal or state law, and enables the court to rest its judgment or decree on the decision of such of the questions as
in its opinion effectively dispose of the case. Field v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 194 U. S. 618, 620; Sler v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 213 U. S. 175, 191; Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298, 303;
Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
499, 508.
As respects the right to sue in equity, it is enough to say
that in this case we find the same absence of an adequate
and certain remedy at law that was found in Wallace v.
Hines, supra, where the right to invoke the aid of a court
of equity was sustained.
The first of the objections made to the tax is that it was
assessed on a basis which the statute does not authorize
or sanction. Of course, if this be so the tax must fall, and
the other objections need not be considered. The statute
does not prescribe a single or unvarying basis whereon
the tax shall be assessed, but designates several bases and

DAVIS v. WALLACE.
478.

Opinion of the Court.

defines the particular situation in which each shall be applied. Where the business of the corporation is wholly
within the State the tax is to be computed according to
the "capital actually invested" in the business. Where
the business is partly within and partly without the State
the computation is to be based on a proportion of the
company's "entire stock and bond issue", which is to be
taken as representing the "investment within the State."
But the proportion is to be determined by standards
which vary materially. In one situation it is to conform
to the ratio of the company's business within the State to
its total business, and in another to the ratio of the company's property employed in its business within the State
to its entire property employed in its business wherever
conducted. In the instance of railroad companies and
other public utility corporations having lines partly within and partly without the State the statute specially provides that .it shall conform to the ratio of the company's
mileage within the State to its entire mileage. This
special provision is embodied in a proviso or excepting
clause which comes immediately after the clause relating
to other corporations and reads as follows:
provided, that in the case of a railroad, telephone, telegraph, car or freight-line, express company or
other common carrier, or a gas, light, power or heating
company, having lines that enter into, extend out of or
across the State, property within the State shall be held
to mean that proportion of the entire property of such
corporation engaged in such business which its mileage
within the State bears to its entire mileage within and
without the State."
This provision shows that the legislature intended by it
to put the corporations which it describes in a separate
class for the purposes of the tax, to require as to them
that the tax be computed and assessed on the special
basis there prescribed, and to exempt them from the bases

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

applicable to other corporations. That intention hardly
could have been more clearly expressed.
True, this provision was held in Wallace v. Hines,
supra, to be in conflict with constitutional limitations and
indefensible as respects the railroad companies now before us; but that does not make the provision any the
less a key to the intention of the legislature, or enable
the taxing officers to subject these corporations to other
provisions from which the act as a whole shows the legislature intended to except them.
Where an excepting provision in a statute is found unconstitutional, courts very generally hold that this does
not work an enlargement of the scope or operation of
other provisions with which that provision was enacted
and which it was intended to qualify or restrain. The
reasoning on which the decisions proceed is illustrated in
State ex rel. McNeal v. Dombaugh, 20 Ohio St. 167, 174.
In dealing with a contention that a statute containing an
unconstitutional proviso should be construed as if the remainder stood alone, the court there said: "This would be
to mutilate the section, and garble its meaning. The
legislative intention "must not be confounded with their
power to carry that intention into effect. To refuse to
give force and vitality to a provision of law is one thing,
and to refuse to read it is a very different thing. It is by
a mere figure of speech that we say an unconstitutional
provision of a statute is 'stricken out.' For all the purposes of construction it is to be regarded as part of the
act. The meaning of the legislature must be gathered
from all they have said, as well from that which is ineffectual for want of power, as from that which is authorized
by law."
Here the excepting provision was in the statute when it
was enacted, and there can be no doubt that the legislature intended that the meaning of the other provisions
should be taken as restricted accordingly. Only with that

NORTH DAKOTA v. CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. 485
478.

Syllabus.

restricted meaning did they receive the legislative sanction
which was essential to make them part of the statute law
of the State; and no other authority is competent to give
them a larger application. Had they been enacted without the excepting provision and had it been embodied in
a subsequent amendatory act a different situation would
be presented-one in which that provision would have
no bearing on the meaning or scope of the others-because an existing statute cannot be recalled or restricted
by anything short of a constitutional enactment. This
was recognized in Truax v. Corrigan, ante, 312, where,
when an amendatory exception proved unconstitutional,
we held that the original statute stood wholly unaffected

by it.
From what has been said it follows that to sustain the
tax in question we should have to hold that the taxing
officers, on finding that it could not constitutionally be
assessed on the basis specially prescribed in the statute,
were at liberty to assess it on another and different basis
which the statute shows was not to be applied to corporations of the class to which these railroad companies belong. Of course we cannot so hold.
We are accordingly of opinion that the first objection
to the tax is well taken, and therefore that the tax is
invalid and its collection should be enjoined.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA EX REL. LEMKE,
ATTORNEY GENERAL, v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

Argued on motion to dismiss January 5, 1922.
Decided January 23, 1922.
1. Section 211 of the Judicial Code, requiring that the United States
No. 25, Original.

be made a party to any suit to set aside or suspend an order of the

