WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO.

563

Syllabus.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN ET AL.
v. CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 206. Argued March 11, 14, 15, 1921; restored to docket for
reargument October 24, 1921; reargued December 5, 6, 7, 1921.Decided February 27, 1922.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring a
horizontal increase of intrastate passenger fares and excess baggage
charges, to correspond with fares and charges fixed for like interstate service in the same State, can not be sustained, under § 13
of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by the Transportation Act of 1920, as an order to remove undue and'unreasonable
prejudice to persons traveling in interstate commerce, when it
broadly embraces not only the intrastate rates to and from border
points, which may work discrimination against interstate passengers and localities, but also those between points more remotely
internal from which no such prejudice can arise upon the facts
found by the Commission. P. 579. The Shreveport Case,234 U. S.
342, and Illinois CentralR. 1?. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission,
245 U. S. 493, distinguished.
2. Such an order is not validated by a clause saving the right of the
State, or other party in interest, to apply to the Commission for a
modification as to particular intrastate fares or charges. P. 580.
3. The Tranrportation Act of 1920, § 422, (§ I5a), provides in part
that the Commission, in the exercise of its power to prescribe just
and reasonable rates, shall initiate, modify, establish or adjust
such rates so that carriers as a whole, or in groups or territories
designated by the Commission, will earn an aggregate net income
equal to a fair return on the aggregate value of their railway
property held and used for transportation; that the Commission
shall determine what percentage of such aggregate property value
constitutes a fair return and such percentage shall be uniform for
the groups or territories; and that in making such determination
it shall give due consideration to the transportation needs of the
country and the necessity of enlarging transportation facilities in

order to provide the people of the United States with adequate

transportation.

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

Held: (a) The effective operation of the Transportation Act reasonably requires that intrastate traffic over the lines of interstate carriers pay a fair proportionate share of the cost of maintaining
an adequate railway system. P. 585.
(b)While § 15a, upra, confers no power on the Commission to
deal with intrastate rates, § 416, (§ 13, par. 4,) of the same act, in
authorizing it to remove and in forbidding and declaring unlawful,
"any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate or foreign commerce," clearly contemplates that such discrimination, resulting from intrastate rates unduly low as compared with interstate rates as fixed under § 15a, and tending to
thwart the purpose of that section, may be removed by the Commission. P. 586.
(c) The act being clear on this point, reports and debates of Congress can not be resorted to to introduce ambiguity. P. 588.
(d)The valuation required by § 15a is not confined to that part of
the property of the interstate carrier used in interstate, segregated
from that used in intrastate, commerce. P. 587.
(e) Raising the level of the intrastate rates in such case, is an
incident to the effective control of the interstate system, and does
not violate the proviso against the Commission's regulating traffic
wholly within a State. P. 588.
(f) The ct as so applied is within the power of Congress over interstate commerce. P. 589.
(g) Thle action of the Commission under it, respecting intrastate
rates, should be directed to substantial disparity which operates as
a real discrimination against and obstruction to interstate commerce, leaving state authorities to deal with intrastate rates
inter sese on the general level found fair by the Commission.
P. 590.
Affirmed.

THE proceeding out of which this case has grown,
known as the Wisconsin Passenger Fares, began in an
investigation by the Interstate Uommerce Commission,
under paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by § 416 of the Transportation
Act of 1920 (41 Stat. 484), into alleged undue and unreasonable discrimination against interstate commerce
arising out of intrastate railroad rates in Wisconsin. The
interstate" carriers by steam railroad of the State were

WISCONSIN R.R.COAM . v. C., B. & Q.R..
563.

CO. 565

Statement Qf the Case.

made respondents, and the Governor and State Railroad
Commission were duly notified. The Interstate Commerce Commission made its report and order November
27, 1920. Wisconsin PassengerFares, 59 I. C. C. 391.
The Commission had investigated the interstate rates of
carriers in the United States, in a proceeding known as
Ex parte 74, IncreasedRates, 58 I. C. C. 220, for the purpose of complying with § 15a of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by § 422 of the Transportation
Act of 1920 (41 Stat. 488). That section requires that the
Commission so adjust rates that the revenues of the carriers shall enable them as a whole or by groups to earn a
fixed net income on their railway property. The Commission ordered an increase for the carriers in the group
of which the Wisconsin carriers were a part, of thirty-five
per cent. in interstate freight rates, and twenty per cent.
in interstate passenger fares and excess baggage charges,
and a surcharge upon passengers in sleeping cars amounting to fifty per cent. of the charge for space in such cars
to accrue to the rail carriers. Thereupon the carriers applied to the-Wisconsin Railroad Commission for corresponding increases in intrastate rates. The state dommission granted increases in intrastate freight rates of thirtyfive per cent., but denied any in intrastate passenger fares
and charges on the sole ground that a state statute prescribed a maximum for passengers of 2 cents a mile.
In the Wisconsin PassengerFares, the Interstate Commerce Commission found that all of the respondent carriers of Wisconsin transported both intrastate and interstate passengers on the same train, with the same service
and accommodations; that the state passenger paying the
lower rate rode on the same train, in the same car, and perhaps in the same seat with the interstate passenger who
paid the higher rate; that the circumstances and conditions were substantially similar for interstate as for intrastate passenger service in Wisconsin; that travelers des-

,566

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

tined to, or coming from, points outside the State found it
cheaper to pay the intrastate fare within Wisconsin and
the interstate fare beyond the border than to pay the
through interstate fare; that undue preference and prejudice were shown by the falling off of sales of tickets from
border line points in Minnesota and Michigan to stations
in Wisconsin, and by a marked increase in sales of local
tickets from coresponding border line points in Wisconsin
to-stations in Wisconsin; that the evidence as to the practice with respect to passenger fares applied in like manner
to the surcharge upon passengers in sleeping and parlor
cars and to excess baggage charges.
The Commission further found that the fare necessary
to fufill the requirement as to net income of this interstate railroad group under § 15a was 3.6 cents per mile,
and that this was reasonable, that the direct revenue loss
to the Wisconsin carriers, due to their failure to secure the
20 per cent. increase in intrastate fares, would approximate -$2,400,000 per year if the 3-cent fare fixed by the
President under federal war control, were continued, and
$6,000,000 per year if the 2-cent fare named in the state
statute, should become effective.
The Commission found that there was undue, unreasonable and unjust discrimination against persons travelling in interstate commerce and against interstate commerce as a whole; and ordered that the undue discriminalion should be removed by increases in all intrastate passenger fares and excess baggage charges and by surcharges
corresponding with the increases and surcharges ordered
in interstate business.
The order was made without prejudice to the right of
the authorities of the State or of any other party in interest to apply in the proper manner for a modification of
the order as to any specified intrastate fares or charges if
the latter were not related to the interstate fares or
charges in such a way as to contravene the provisions of
the Interstate Commerce Act.

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q.R. R. CO. 567
563.

Argument for Appellants.

The carriers filed bills in equity, of which the present is
one, in the District Court to enjoin the State Railroad
Commission and other state officials from interfering with
the maintenance of the fares thus ordered and published.
Application for interlocutory injunction was made to
the District Court under § 266 of the Judicial Code. After
a hearing before three judges, they granted an interlocutory injunction from which this appeal was taken.
Mr. M. B. Olbrich, with whom Mr. William J. Morgan,
Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin, Mr. Ralph M.
Hoyt and Mr. E. E. Brossard were on the briefs, for
appellants.
No unjust discrimination, American Express Co. v.
Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 624; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 216 U. S. 538, 545;
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, 355, was found by the
Commission with sufficient definiteness. The avowed
aim was the correction of rates deemed unreasonable because they did not correspond with the standard of production set up for the regulation of interstate commerce.
This was an object beyond the Commission's power.
Even if removal of discrimination in the legal sense was
one of the purposes, that purpose was so intermingled
with other considerations as to make it impossible to separate the two. Foote v. Maryland, 232 U. S. 494, 503;
PureOil Co. v. Minnesota,248 U. S. 158, 162.
The substance of the power exercised, and not, its
shadow, determines the validity of the order. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Illinois CentralR. R. Co., 215
U. S. 452; Same v. Union PacificR. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541.
The substance of the power here sought to be exercised
was power to determine the amount of passenger revenue
to be received by.interstate carriers from the purely internal commerce of Wisconsin.
The Transportation Act conferred no power to increase
the intrastate rates to make them conform to an alleged

M6

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

257 U. 9.

standard of return prescribed by Congress. Obviously
here lies the crux of the present controversy. Unless such
a standard was laid down and such requirement as to
contribution made, there could be no possibility of finding
discrimination or burden on interstate commerce as the
result of inadequate intrastate return.
When the act was passed, Congress was intent upon
the restoration of.state power rather than the assumption
of more federal power, -the dangers of over-centralization
were more threatening than any crisis of transportation.
Evidence of the attitude of Congress is found not only in
the history of this act but in other activities of Congress.
S. 641, 66th Cong., 1st sess.; Doc. 155, 66th Cong., 1st
sess.; Doe. 155, 66th Cong., 2d sess.; H. R. No. 230, 66th
Cong., 1st sess. Congress was even willing to cumber the
presidential exercise of the war power with a power of
veto in the States over all change or increase in state
rates, and this when there remained but two months of
federal control.
If the time had arrived when Congress within the scope
of its conceded constitutional power had decided to assert
a unified control over all commerce, is it probable that it
would have done so by an act entitled as was the Transportation Act, "An Act to provide for the termination of
federal control "? Under an elaborate pretense of restoring state power, Congress would not have masked the
intention of effectually displacing it by the construction
of administratiye machinery for its elimination.
But our contention goes beyond insistence upon the
unlikelihood that Congress would do one thing, while it
professed to do another. It is directed to the improbability that by any language or form of words it would
have sought to inaugurate the plan of regulation for which
the carriers argue.
The delegation of power to an administrative bureau to
suspend, not the incidental effect of state law, but state

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 569
563.

Argument for Appellants.

law in its entirety, is too novel, too revolutionary, a suggestion to be accepted without examination. To withdraw a subject-matter from the control of the States by
the assertion of a previously unexercised exclusive federal
power is a matter of commonplace. To leave a qualified
control subject to displacement by mere administrative
fiat is, we submit, quite a different proposition,--a step
radical, if not revolutionary. It is not regulation of commerce; it is supervisory control-it is regulation--of state
government by a federal administrative agency without
parallel in existing law, and without precedent in American history.
Plainly possessing the competence to do so, if Congress
had intended to regulate the amount of revenue arising
from state rates, it seems self-evident that it would have
asserted that power directly,--particularly so in view of
the fact that a complete system of federal control of all
state rates was actually in force, to which the States had
grown accustomed after an interval of experience.
Apart from mere probability, the language employed
does not permit of the construction essential to sustain
the validity of the order. To make clear our position as
to § 13, which deals with the removal of discrimination
resulting from state action, we make no contention that
there is any form of discrimination so resultinj that may
not be removed. We concede, further, that, if discrimination actually disclosed leads to successive orders, the
entire field of state authority may conceivably be absorbed. This, of course, is subject to the elementary rule
of definiteness and certainty in the finding of discrimination. It is our contention merely that no discrimination
has been found.
Mere desertion of travel in interstate commerce for
travel in intrastate commerce does not constitute discrimination against interstate commerce. The test, we
think, in all cases, is resulting hiterference with interstate

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appelants.

257 U. S.

commerce. Only when commerce has been obstructed or
unnecessarily encumbered by state action, Pensacola
Telegrah Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1,
9; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 582; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208
U. S. 274, 293; Northern Securities Co. v. United States,
193 U. S. 197, 346, has the action been shown to be discriminatory.
The stream of commercial intercourse is not clogged
when a person re-buys a ticket at a state line-the physical movement of commerce may actually be stimulatedbut above this, it is submitted that the volume of interstate commerce is not decreased; although an individual
may by resort to subterfuge successfully defraud the carrier and procure interstate transportation at intrastate
cost. But this matter is very largely within the control
of the carrier itself.
The carrier is under no obligation to carry the passenger
who has re-bought a ticket at a state line. Missouri,K. &
T. Ry. Co. v. Ashinger, 63 Okla. 120; Illinois CentralR. R.
Co. v. Holman, 106 Miss. 449; Chicago,B. L & G. Ry. Co.
v. Edwards, 232 S. W. 356.
Discrimination does not arise from mere difference in
rate level, or from inadequacy of intrastate rates, until
in effect the legal conception of the two classes of commerce denominated "interstate" and "intrastate" has
been abandoned. Until a comnmon standard is established, plainly power to remove discrimination is wholly
irrelevant to the issue of revenue production.
Prior to the amendment of § 13, the Commission had
recognized that it possessed no power to resort to interstate commerce to make up deficiencies alleged to arise
from intrastate commerce. Cobb v. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co., 20 1. C. C. 100; Five Per Cent. Cases, 31 I. C. C. 351;
Western Passenger Fares, 37 I. C. C. 41. Nor are the
views of counsel of eminence and standing wanting to
demonstrate that the section, as finally enacted, conferred

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q.R. R. CO. 571
563.

Argument for AppeUants.

upon the Commission no power such as claimed. 59
Cong. Rec., pt. 1, 66th Cong., 2d sess., Dec. 1, 1919-Jan. 5,
1920, 138, 142; Hearing before House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 66th Cong., 1st sess., on
H. R. 4378, pp. 21, 1036, 1037, 1077, 1078, 1080, 1230.
By § 15 Congress gave to the Commission power to fix
reasonable interstate rates. By § 15a it established a
"rule of rate making"-the manner of exercising the
power granted by § 15. This rule for the exercise of
power within a jurisdiction defined did not operate to
enlarge the scope of the jurisdiction. Ex parte Siebold,
101 U. S. 371.
If § 15a were a grant of power, there might be room for
the contention carriers make. But plainly it is not a
grant, but a regulation or limitation of power. The purpose of § 15a was set forth by the conference committee.
Conference Report on H. R. 10453, 59 Cong. Rec., pt. 4,
p. 3265.
Section 15a fixes the meaning of a reasonable return
at a specified percentage of property values. It further
directs that such return shall be computed not upon the
property of an individual road or carrier, as a separate
unit, but upon the property used by all roads, the plain
implication, of course, being their property used in inter-.
state commerce. By the use of the term "aggregate," it
was merely intended to emphasize the plan of treating all
property as belonging to one carrier, instead of many.
There is nothing to indicate that the term was intended
to have other significance than this. 59 Cong. Rec., pt. 1,
p. 137.
The exercise of power over a given subject is not extended to include other matters simply because general
words are employed in describing factors common to an
excluded class, as well as that included within jurisdiction. So that, were there nothing more than these two
sections standing alone, it could not be urged successfully

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

257 U. S.

that § 15a required the inclusion of those property values
devoted to intrastate commerce.
But in addition to the proposition that all that is done
pursuant to § 15a must be within the scope of what may
be done under § 15, we have a direct restriction upon the
meaning of § 15a. The terms of § 1 are plain. They
refer
to all the provisions of the act. Section 15a is one of
those provisions, and we are not at liberty to assume that,
speaking at page 36 of the Transportation Act, Congress
had forgotten the plain declaration of its self-imposed
limitation upon page 20; that "the provisions of this act
shall not apply to transportation wholly within one State."
We must presume that Congress thought it unnecessary
to repeat this language in every separate provision, especially in view of the rule that its intention to include intrastate commerce must be "clearly manifested."
In the case of an administrative tribunal, the presumption is against the extension of jurisdiction. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 216
U. S.543.
The proviso renders void an order of the Commission
of the nature herein challenged, not because it restrains
the removal of discrimination, but because its proper
application makes it impossible to find that-the facts and
circumstances shown constitute discrimination under the
law-because it precludes a construction that Congress
means unified control over commerce, removing the distinction between the two classes and making possible a
legal relation between their rate productivities.
In so far as the order purports to remove prejudice and
discrimination against persons or localities, it has no definite field of operation and leaves uncertain the territory
and points to which it applies, and is clearly insufficient.
It was entered on a different and erroneous theory.
The bill of complaint completely fails to make a prima
fade showing that the Wisconsin statutes violate the
Fourteenth Amendment.

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 573
563.

Argument for Appellee.

Mr. Bruce Scott and Mr. Aifred"P. Thorn, with whom
Mr. Kenneth F. Burgess, Mr. R. V. Fletcher,Mr. C. W.
Dynes and Mr. A. A. McLaughlin were on the briefs, for
appellee.
The commerce power, standing alone, is adequate to
support 'the regulation by Congress, contained in paragraphs 3 and 4, of § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
of the state rates of carriers engaged in interstate commerce. The imperative need of an equitable regulation
of commerce among the States was one of the most influential causes leading to the Constitution. Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; 1 McMaster's History of the American People, p. 206; Fiske, Critical Period of American
History, 1783-1789, p. 144.
This function, along with those of war, peace and
finance, is one of the fundamental essentials of national
existence and efficiency, and by entering into the compact each State acquired the right to have these functions
performed by the Federal Government. The rights
acquired are not less state rights and are not less important or less sacred than those which the States
reserved.
Congress, recognizing a great economic development,
has provided in the Transportation Act for the consolidation of the carriers into great systems. (§ 407, par. 4.)
The problem of greatest magnitude which concerns the
people of all the States in regard to these carriers, is how
their continuity of service shall be preserved unobstructed,
and what shall be the quality, adequacy and efficiency
which their transportation facilities shall possess.
A broad and wise policy in dealing with the instrumentalities of commerce is, therefore, a matter of supreme
interest to all the States.
The proposition that the national standard as to the
adequacy and efficiency of the instrumentalities of interstate commerce can not be surrendered to the States'

514

OCTOBEM TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

257 U. S.

judgment without an abdication of the power to regulate
interstate commerce, is sustained in principle in Houston
East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S.
355; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. &tatePublic Utilities
Commission,245 U. S. 506; American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617.
The argument is essentially unsound which concedes to
the National Government the power to regulate interstate
rates, which are merely the terms on which interstate commerce is conducted, and denies to it the power to regulate
the standard and efficiency of the instrument of interstate
commerce, which constitutes the essential condition of the
very existence of interstate commerce itself-for the constitutional power of regulation is "to foster and protect,"
as well as "to control and restrain." Houston East &
West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, supra.
The argument is likewise essentially unsound which
concedes to the National Government the power to declare
and remove a discrimination of a single rate made by a
State against a competitive interstate rate, but denies to
it the power to declare and remove a discrimination
created by a body of state rates against the entire structure of interstate commerce. Louisville Bridge Co. v.
United States, 242 U. S. 417; Bridge Co. v. United States,
105 U. S. 480.
The following propositions, as to the extent of the power
of Congress under the commerce clause, are established
beyond the reach of successful controversy by the decisions
of this court: (1) The power to construct, or to authorize
individuals or corporations to construct, national highways and bridges from State to State, is essential to the
complete control and regulation of interstate commerce.
Californiav. PacificR. R. Co., 127 U.S. 39. (2) Although
a particular business might not when considered by
itself be within the implied power of Congress, if such

WISCONSIN R.R. COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 575
563.

Argument for Appellee.

business is appropriate and relevant to the business of the
corporation, the implied power is to be tested by the
right to create the corporation and to attach to it that
which is relevant, in the judgment of Congress, to make
the business of the corporation successful. First National
Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S. 420; McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738.
(3) The entire instrumentality of interstate commerce
is within the regulating power of Congress, and when
exercised the regulation is controlling and exclusive.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 399, 411; Houston East
& West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 351;
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 269.
Under these principles the Government itself might
construct a transportation system, or acquire one already
constructed, or might exercise through private individuals
or private corporations its power of providing for commerce.
Whether owning and operating the instrumentality
itself, or performing the function through private individuals or private corporations, it is competent for the
Government to authorize the instrumentality of interstate commerce to engage in state commerce, and, under
its pow6r to regulate the instrumentality, to regulate all
its activities and interests, so far as the public interest
may require, including, if it so elect, the regulation as
an original matter of the state rates of such interstate
carriers.
The war power, standing alone, is adequate to sustain
the validity of the power exercised by Congress with reference to the state rates of carriers engaged in interstate
commerce, by paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 13 of the Interstate
Commerce Act. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries
Co., 251 U. S. 146; Cherokee Nation v. Kansas Ry. Co.,

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

257 U. S.

135 U. S. 641; Californiav. Central PacificR. R. Co., 127
U. S. 1.
The power to establish post offices and post roads, standing alone, is likewise adequate to sustain it. Californiav.
Central Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1, 39.
The contention here made that it was the purpose of
Congress to provide for the support and success of this
national policy of transportation out of the revenues derived from interstate commerce alone, leaving the question of whether the several States would participate in
this burden, or would leave it all to rest upon interstate
commerce, cannot be accepted.
The result of this would be either that the national
conception of the standard of transportation facilities
must be abandoned because of dissenting state opinion,
or the means of sustaining it up to the national standard
be cast upon the interstate part of the carrier's services,
or largely upon that and the balance on the internal commerce of those States which approved of the national
standard and were willing to contribute to its support.
The Transportation Act must clearly be construed as not
permitting such a consequence.
Instead of finding in the Transportation Act terms
which would force such a construction, we find that the
purpose of Congress, as therein expressed, was directly the
reverse. It is true that it did not deal with the primary
jurisdiction over state rates and over interstate rates in
the same way; but it did in unmistakable terms assert a
jurisdiction over -the ultimate and final regulation of
both--over interstate rates as a matter of primary jurisdiction and over state rates as a matter of supervisory
jurisdiction as defined in the act.
In § 422 (§ 15a of the Interstate Commerce Act), the
Commission is required to find the aggregate value of the
property of the carriers held for and used in the service of

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 577
563.

Argument for Appellee.

transportation, and is not permitted to exclude any part
of it because used for state transportation, or to make any
distinction between that which is used in state service and
that which is used in interstate service.
Likewise, when it comes to the question of the "fair
return" prescribed by the act, no exclusion is permitted
of the revenues derived from state traffic, but the return
which must be provided is required to come from all
traffic, state and interstate.
The contention insistently made that a different result
must follow from the proviso that the act shall not
apply to transportation wholly within one State, is
unsound for two reasons. (1) The clause was in express terms a part of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act
as it stood prior to the Transportation Act, and was a
part, of that act at the time of the decision in Houston,
East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S.
342. " (2) The view that the clause referred to must be
construed as an exclusion by Congress of jurisdiction of
the Commission over the question of discrimination of
state rates against interstate or foreign commerce, is
plainly answered by the fact that in § 416 of the Transportation Act (paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act), Congress in express terms extends
the power of the Commission over such discriminations.
Congress, out of deference to the States, adopted the
policy of dealing directly and primarily with interstate
charges and of leaving the state rates to be dealt with
primarily by the States, asserting a supervisory and
corrective authority over state action only in cases of
discrimination against interstate commerce. But, in
the final result, it unmistakably undertook, in the act,
to deal ultimately with both classes of 'rates. Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission,
245 U. S. 507,

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Mr. John E. Benton, by leave of court, on behalf o."
forty-five States, as represented by their attorneys general and other counsel and by their railway and public
service and utilities commissions, as amicus curim. Mr.
A. E. Helm and Mr. Karl Knox Gartner were also on
the briefs.
Mr. P. J. Farrell,by leave of court, on, behalf of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, as amicus curiw.
Mr. Clifford Hilton, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, and Mr. Henry C. Flannery,by leave of court,
filed a brief as amici curim.
Mr. Forney Johnston, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curim.
Mr. Karl Knox Gartner and Mr. William Lemke, Attorney General of the State of North Dakota, by leave of
court, filed a brief as amici curim.
MR. CHIErF JusTICE TAFT, after stating the case, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
The Commission's order, interference with which was
enjoined by the District Court, effects the removal of the
unjust discrimination found to exist against persons in
interstate commerce, and against interstate commerce, by
fixing a minimum for intrastate passenger fares in Wisconsin at 3.6 cents per mile per passenger. This is done under
paragraph 4 of § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by the Transportation Act of 1920, which authorizes the Interstate Commerce Commission, after a
prescribed investigation, to remove
"Any undue-or unreasonable advantage, preference, or
prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate
commerce on the one hand and interstate or foreign
commerce on the other hand, or any undue, unreasonable,

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R.R. CO. 579
563.

Opinion of the Court.

or unjust discrimination against interstate or foreign
commerce."
We have two questions to decide.
First. Do the intrastate passenger fares work undue
prejudice against persons in interstate commerce, such as
to justify a horizontal increase of them all?
Second. Are these intrastate fares an undue discrimination against interstate commerce as a whole which it is
the duty of the Commission to remove?
We shall consider these in their order.
First. The report and findings of the Commission undoubtedly show that the intrastate fares work an undue
discrimination against travellers in interstate commerce
and against localities (Houston, East & West Texas Ry.
Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342) in typical instances
numerous enough to justify a general finding against a
large class of fares. In a general order thus supported,
possible injustice can be avoided by a saving clause allowing any one to except himself from the order by proper
showing. This practice is fully sustained by precedent
in what was done as a sequence of the Shreveport Case
(Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra). See 34 1. C. C. 472; 411. C. C. 83; Eastern
Texas R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 242 Fed. 300;
Looney v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 247 U. S. 214. In Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493, 508, this court indicated its approval
of such practice which was adopted by the Commission.
49 I. C. C. 713. Any rule which would require specific
proof of discrimination as to each fare or rate and its effect
would completely block the remedial purpose of the
statute.
The order in this case, however, is much wider than the
orders made in the proceedings following the Shreveport
and Illinois Central Cases. There, as here, the report of
the Commission showed discrimination against persons

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

and localities at border points, and the orders were extended to include all rates or fares from all points in the
State to border points. But this order is not so restricted.
It includes fares between all interior points although
neither may be near the border and the fares between
them may not work a discrimination against interstate
travellers at all. Nothing in the precedents cited justifies
an order affecting all rates of a general description when it
is clear that this would include many rates not within the
proper class or the reason of the order. In such a case, the
saving clause by which exceptions are permitted, can not
give the order validity. As said by this court in the Illinois Central R. R. Case, "it is obvious that an order of a
subordinate agency, such as the Commission, should not
be given precedence over a state rate statute otherwise
valid, unless, and except so far as, it conforms to a high
standard of certainty." See also American Express Co. v.
Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 627.
If, in view of the changes, made by federal authority,
in a large class of discriminating state rates, it is necessary
from a state point of view to change non-discriminating
state rates to harmonize with them, only the state authorities can produce such harmony. We can not sustain the
sweep of the order in this case on the showing of discriminations against persons or places alone.
Second. The report of the Commission shows that if
the intrastate passenger fares in Wisconsin are to be
limited by the statute of that State to 2 cents per mile,
and charges for extra baggage and sleeping car accommodations are to be reduced in a corresponding degree, the
net income of the interstate carriers of the State will be
cut six millions of dollars below what it would be under
intrastate rates on the same level with interstate rates.
Under paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 13 and § 15a as enacted
in §§ 416 and 422 respectively of the Transportation Act

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 581
563.

Opinion of the Court.

of 1920 (which are given in part in the margin), are such
reduction and disparity an "undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate or foreign commerce" which the Interstate Commerce Commission may
remove by raising the intrastate fares? A short reference
to the circumstances inducing the legislation and a summary of its relevant provisions will aid the answer to this
question.
1

Paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 13 of § 416 and § 15a of § 422 of the

same act are as follows:
"(3) Whenever in any investigation under the provisions of this
Act, or in any investigation instituted upon petition of the carrier
concerned, which petition is hereby authorized to be filed, there shall
be brought in issue any rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or
practice, made or imposed by -authority of any State, or initiated by
the President during the period of Federal control, the Commission,
before proceeding to hear and dispose of such issue, shall cause the
State or States interested to be notified of the proceeding. The
Commission may confer with the authorities of any State having
regulatory jurisdiction over the class of persons and corporations
subject to this Act with respect to the relationship between rate structures and practices of carriers subject to the jurisdiction of such
State bodies and of the Commission; and to that end-is authorized
and empowered, under rules to be prescribed by it, and which may
be modified from time to time, to hold joint hearings with any
such State regulating bodies on any matters wherein the Commission is empowered to act and where the rate-making authority of a
State is or may be affected by the action taken by the Commission.
The Commission is also authorized to avail itself of the cooperation,
services, records, and facilities of such State authorities in the enforcement of any provision of this Act.
"(4) Whenever in any such investigation the Commission, after
full hearing, finds that any such rate, fare, charge, classification,
regulation, or practice causes any undue or unreasonable advantage,
preference, or prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate
commerce on the ne hand and interstate or foreign commerce on
the other hand, or any undue, unreasonable,or unjust discrimination
against interstateorforeign commerce, which is hereby forbidden and
declared to be unlawful, it shall prescribe the rate, fare, or charge,
or the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, thereafter
to be charged, and the classification, regulation, or practice thereafter

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The Interstate Commerce Act of 1887, 24 St. 379, was
enacted by Congress to prevent interstate railroad carriers from charging unreasonable rates and from unjustly
discriminating between persons and localities. The railroads availed themselves of the weakness and cumbrous
machinery of the original law to defeat its purpose, and
this led to various amendments culminating in the amending Act of 1910, 36 Stat. 539, in which the authority of
the Commission in dealing with the carriers was made
summary and effectively complete. Whatever the causes,
the fact was that the carrying capacity of the railroads
did not thereafter develop proportionately with the
growth of the country, and it became difficult for them
to be observed, in such manner as, in its judgment, will remove such
advantage, preference, prejudice, or discrimination. Such rates, fares,
charges, classifications, regulations, and practices shall be observed
while in effect by the carriers parties to such proceeding affected
thereby, the law of any State or the decision or order of any State
authority to the contrary notwithstanding."
Section 422 of the Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat. 488.
The Interstate Commerce Act is further amended by inserting
after section 15 a new section to be known as section 15a and to
read as follows:
"See. 15a. (1) ....
"(2) In the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable
rates, the Commission shall initiate, modify, establish or adjust such
rates so that carriers as a whole (or as a whole in each of such rate
groups or territories as the Commission may from time to time designate) will, under honest, efficient and economical management and
reasonable expenditures for maintenance of way, structures and
equipment, earn an aggregate annual net railway operating income
equal, as nearly as may be, to a fair return upon the aggregate value
of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in the
service of transportation:
"(3) The Commission shall from time to time determine and
make public what percentage of such aggregate property value constitutes a fair return thereon, and such percentage shall be uniform
for all rate groups or territories which may be designated by the
Commission. In making such determination it shall give due con-

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q.R. R. CO. 583
563.

Opinion of the Court.

to secure additional investment of capital on feasible
terms. When the extraordinary demand for transportation arose in 1917, the Congress and the President concluded to take over all ihe railroads into the management
of the Federal Government, and by joint use of facilities,
which the Anti-Trust Law was thought to forbid under
private management, and by use of Government credit,
to increase their effectiveness. This was done by appropriate legislation and executive action under the war
power. From January 1, 1918, until March 1, 1920, when
the Transportation Act went into effect, the common
carriers by steam railroad of the country were operated
by the Federal Government. Due to the -rapid rise in the
sideration, among other things, to the transportation needs of the
country and the necessity (under honest, efficient and economical
management of existing transportation facilities) of enlarging such
facilities in order to provide the people of the United States with
adequate transportation: Provided, That during the two years be-

ginning March 1, 1920, the Commission shall take as such fair return
a sum equal to 51/2 per centum of such aggregate value, but may, in
its discretion, add thereto a sum not exceeding one-half of one per
centum of such aggregate value to make provision in whole or in
part for improvements, betterments or equipment, which, according
to the accounting system prescribed by the Commission, are chargeable to capital account.
"(4) For the purposes of this section, such aggregate value of the
property of the carriers shall be determined by the Commission from
time to time and as often as may be necessary. The Commission
may utilize the results of its investigation under section 19a of this
Act, in so far as deemed by it available, and shall give due consideration to all the elements of value recognized by the law of the land
for rate-malng purposes, and shall give to the property investment
account of the carriers only that consideration which under such law
it is entitled to in establishing values for rate-making purposes.
Whenever pursuant to section 19a of this Act, the value of the railway property of any carrier held for and used in the service of transportation has been finally ascertained, the value so ascertained shall
be deemed by the Commission to be the value thereof for the purpose of determining such aggregate value."

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

prices of material and labor in 1918 and 1919, the expense of their operation had enormously increased by
the time it was proposed to return the railroads to their
owners. The owners insisted that their properties could
not be turned back to them by the Government for useful operation without provision to aid them to meet a
situation in which they were likely to face a demoralizing
lack of credit and income. Congress acquiesced in this
view. The Transportation Act of 1920 was the result. It
was adopted after elaborate investigations by the Interstate Commerce Committees of the two Houses.
Under Title II it made provision for the termination
of federal control March 1, 1920, for the refunding of the
carriers' indebtedness to the United States, and for a
guaranty for six months to the carriers of an income equal
to the war-time rental for their properties, and directed
that, for two years following the termination of federal
control, the Secretary of the Treasury, upon certificate of
the Commission, might make loans to the carriers not exceeding the maximum amount recommended in the certificate, out of a revolving fund of $300,000,000.
Under Title IV, amendments were made to the Interstate Commerce Act which included § 13, paragraphs 3
and 4, and § 15a, already quoted in the margin. The
former for the first time authorizes the Commission to
deal directly with intrastate rates where they are unduly discriminating against interstate commerce-a power
already indirectly, exercised as to persons and localities,
with approval of this court in the Shreveport and other
cases. The latter, the most novel and most important
feature of the act, requires the Commission so to prescribe rates as to enable the carriers as a whole, or in
groups selected by the Commission, to earn an aggregate
annual net railway operating income equal to a fair return on the aggregate value of the railway property used
in transportation. For two years, the return is to be

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 586
563.

Opinion of the Court.

51/2 per cent., with / .per cent. for improvements, and
thereafter is to be fixed by the Commission.
The act sought to avoid excessive incomes accruing,
under the operation of § 15a, to the carriers better circumstanced, by using the excess for loans to the others
and for other purposes. The act further put under the
control of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 1st, the
issuing of future railroad securities by the interstate carriers; 2nd, the regulation of their car supply and distribution and the joint use of. terminals; and, 3rd, their construction of new lines, and their abandonment of old
lines. The validity of some of these provisions has been

questioned. Upon that we express no opinion. We only
refer to them to show the scope of the congressional purpose in the act.
It is manifest from this very condensed recital that the
act made a new departure. Theretofore the control which
Congress through the Interstate Commerce Commission
exercised was primarily for the purpose of preventing injustice by unreasonable or discriminatory rates against
persons and localities, and the only provisions of the law
that inured to the benefit of the carriers were the requirement that the rates should be reasonable in the sense of
furnishing an adequate compensation for the particular
service rendered and the abolition of rebates. The new
measure imposed an affirmative duty on the Interstate
Commerce Commission to fix rates and to take other important steps to maintain an adequate.railway service for
the people of the United States. This is expressly declared in § 15a to be one of the purposes of the bill.
Intrastate rates and the income from them must play
a most important part in maintaining an adequate national railway system. Twenty per cent. of the gross
freight receipts of the railroads of the country are from
intrastate traffic, and fifty per cent. of the passenger receipts. The ratio of the gross intrastate revenue to the

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

interstate revenue is a little less than one to three. If
the.rates, on which such receipts are based, are to be fixed
at a substantially lower level than in interstate traffic, the
share which the intrastate traffic will contribute will be
proportionately less. If the railways are to earn a fixed
net percentage of income, the lower the intrastate rates,
the higher the interstate rates may have to be. The effective operation of the act will reasonably and justly
require that intrastate traffic should pay a fair proportionate share of the cost of maintaining an adequate railway system. Section 15a confers no power on the Commission to deal with intrastate rates. What is done under
that section is to be done by the Commission "in the
exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable
rates ", i. e., powers derived from previous amendments
to the Interstate Commerce Act, which have never been
construed or used to embrace the prescribing of intrastate
rates. When we turn to paragraph 4, § 13, however, and
find the Commission for the first time vested with a direct
power to remove " any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate or foreign commerce ", it
is impossible to escape the dovetail relation between that
provision and the purpose of § 15a. If that purpose is
interfered with by a disparity of intrastate rates, the Commission is authorized to end the disparity by directly removing it, because it is plainly an "undue, unreasonable,
or unjust discrimination against interstate or foreign commerce , within the ordinary meaning of those words.
Counsel for appellants, not able to satisfy their meaning
by the suggestion of any other discr'ination to which
they apply, are forced to the position that the words are
tautological and a mere repetition of "any undue or unreasonable advantage, preference, or prejudice as between
persons or localities in intrastate commerce on the one
hand and interstate or foreign commerce on the other
hand," which precede them. In view of their apt appli-

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q.R. R. CO. 587
563.

Opinion of the Court.

cation to the most important purpose of the legislation,
we are not at liberty to take such a view. If "undue,
unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate
or foreign commerce" are tautological, why are they followed by the phrase "which is hereby forbidden and declared to be unlawful?" To accompany a meaningless
phrase with Words of such special emphasis would be
unusual.
It is urged that in previous decisions, notably the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, the Shreveport Case,
supra,and the Illinois CentralCase, supra, the expression
" unjust discrimination against interstate commerce" was
often used when, as the law then was, it could only mean
discrimination as between persons and localities, and
therefore that it is to be given the same limited meaning
here. But, here, the general words are used after discrimination against persons and localities have been specifically mentioned. The natural inference is that even if
they include what has gone before, they mean something
more. When we find that they aptly include a kind of
discrimination against interstate commerce which the op.
eration of the new act for the first time makes important
and which would seriously obstruct its chief purpose, we
cannot ignore their necessary effect.
Counsel for appellants are driven by the logic of their
position t6 maintain that the valuation required for the
purposes of § 15a to be ascertained pursuant to § 19a of
the Interstate Commerce Act (37 Stat. 701; amended 41
Stat. 493), is to be only of that part of the property and
equipment of the interstate carriers which is used in commerce among the States and must be segregated from that
used in intrastate commerce. This is contrary to the
construction which since the enactment of § 19a, March
1, 1913, the Commission has put upon that section in
carrying out its injunction. It is inadmissible. The language of § 15a refutes such interpretation. The per-

M8

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U.S.

centage is to be calculated on "the aggregate value of the
railway property of such carriers held for and used in the
service of transportation." To impose on the Commission the duty of separating property used in the two services when so much of it is used in both, and to do this
in a reasonably short time for practical use, as contemplated by the statute, would be to assign it a well-nigh
impossible task. This, of itself, prevents our giving the
words such a construction unless they clearly require it.
They certainly do not.
It is objected here, as it was in the Shreveport Case,
that orders of the Commission which raise the intrastate
rates to a level of the interstate structure violate the
specific proviso of the original Interstate Commerce Act
repeated in the amending acts, that the Commission is not
to regulate traffic wholly within a State. To this, the same
answer must be made as was made in the Shreveport Case
(234 U. S. 342, 358), that such orders as to intrastate
traffic are merely incidental to the regulation of interstate
commerce and necessary to its efficiency. Effective control of the one must embrace some control over the other
in view of the blending of both in actual operation. The
same rails and the same care carry both. The same men
conduct them. Commerce is a unit and does not regard
state lines, and while, under the Constitution, interstate
and intrastate commerce are ordinarily subject to regulation by different sovereignties, yet when they are so
mingled-together that the supreme authority, the Nation,
cannot exercise complete effective control over interstate
commerce without incidental regulation of intrastate
commerce, such incidental regulation is not an invasion
of state authority or a violation of the proviso.
Great stress is put on the legislative history of the
Transportation Act to show that the bill was not intended
to confer on the Commission power to remove any discrimination against interstate commerce involved in a

WISCONSIN R.R.COMM. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. CO. 589
563.

Opinion of the Court.

general disparity between interstate and intrastate rates.
Committee reports and explanatory statements of members in charge made in presenting a bill for passage have
been held to be a legitimate aid to the interpretation of
a statute where its language is doubtful or obscure. Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 475.
But when taking the act as a whole, the effect of the
language used is clear to the court, extraneous aid like
this can not control the interpretation. Pennsylvania
R.R. Co. v. InternationalCoal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184,
198. Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 490.
Such aids are only admissible to solve doubt and not to
create it. For the resons given, we have no doubt in
this case.
Counsel for the appellants have not contested the constitutional validity of the statute construed as we have
construed it, although the counsel for the state commissions whom we permitted to file briefs as amid curiae
have done so. The principles laid down by this court in
the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 432, 433, the
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S.342, 351, and the Illinois Central Case, 245 U. S.493, 506, which are rates cases, and in
the analogous cases of Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S. 612, 618;
Southern Ry.Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.20, 26, 27;
Second Employers' LiabilityCases, 223 U. S. 1, 48, 51, we
think, leave no room for discussion on this point. Congress in its control of its interstate commerce system is
seeking in the Transportation Act to make the system
adequate to the needs of the country by securing for it a
reasonable compensatory return for all the work it does.
The States are seeking to use that same system for intrastate traffic. That entails large duties and expenditures on the interstate commerce system which may
burden it unless compensation is received for the intrastate business reasonably proportionate to that for the

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

interstate business. Congress as the dominant controller
of interstate commerce may, therefore, restrain undue
limitation of the earning power of the interstate commerce system in doing state work. The affirmative power
of Congress in developing interstate commerce agencies is
clear. Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S. 24; Luxton v. North
River Bridge Co., 153 U. S. 525; CaIiforniav. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1, 39. In such development, it
can impose any reasonable condition on a State's use of
interstate carriers for intrastate commerce it deems necessary or desirable. This is because of the supremacy of
the national power in this field.
In Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, where relevant
cases were carefully reviewed, it was said, p. 399: "The
authority of Congress extends to every part of interstate commerce, and to every instrumentality or agency
by which it is carried on; and the full control by Congress of the subjects committed to its regulation is not
to be denied or thwarted by the commingling of interstate
and intrastate operations. This is not to say that the
Nation may deal with the internal concerns of the State,
as such, but that the execution by Congress of its constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce is not
limited by the fact that intrastate transactions may have
become so interwoven therewith that the effective government of the former incidentally controls the latter.
This conclusion necessarily results from the supremacy
of the national power within its appointed sphere."
It is said that our conclusion gives the Commission
unified control of interstate and intrastate commerce. It
is only unified to the extent of maintaining efficient regulation of interstate commerce under the paramount power
of Congress. It does not involve general regulation of
intrastate commerce. Action of the Interstate Commerce
Commission in this regard should be directed to substantial disparity which operates as a real discrimination

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
563.

Syllabus.

against, and obstruction to, interstate commerce, and
must leave appropriate discretion to the state authorities
to deal with intrastate rates as between themselves on
the general level which the Interstate Commerce Commission has found to be fair to interstate commerce.
It may well turn out that the effect of a general order
in increasing all rates, like the one at bar, will, in particular localities, reduce income instead of. increasing it,
by discouraging patronage. Such cases would be within
the saving clause of the order herein, and make proper an
application to the Interstate Commerce Commission for
appropriate exception. So, too, in practice, when the state
commissions shall recognize their obligation to maintain
a proportionate and equitable share of the income of the
carriers from intrastate rates, conference between the
Interstate Commerce Commission and the state commissions may dispense with the necessity for any rigid federal order as to the intrastate rates, and leave to the state
commissions power to deal with them and increase them
or reduce them in their discretion.
The order of the District Court granting the interlocutory injunction is

Affirmed.
STATE OF NEW.YORK ET AL. v. UNITED STATES,
CLARK ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, AND (INTERVENING) LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 283. Argued October 19, 20, 1921.-Decided February 27, 1922.
1. Absence of any substantial evidence to sustain a finding of the
Interstate Commerce Commission material to an order adjusting
rates, may be relied on in a suit directly attacking the order, to

