602

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

the State to secure the income for which the Interstate
Commerce Commission must attempt to provide by fixing rates under § ISa of the Interstate Commerce Act; as
amended by § 422 of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41
Stat. 456, 488, in carrying out the declared congressional
purpose "to provide the people of the United States with
adequate transportation." As we have just held in the
Wisconsin Rate Case, this constitutes "undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate .
commerce ", which is declared to be unlawful and prohibited by § 13, par. 4, of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by § 416 of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41
Stat. 456, 484, and which the Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized therein to remove by fixing intrastate rates for the purpose. We need not repeat our reasons for our ruling. Nor need we consider and give again
the grounds upon which we hold § 13, par. 4 as thus construed to be valid under the Constitution of the United
States.
The decree of the District Court dismissing the bill of
complaint is
Affirmed.
SMIETANKA, AS COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
FIRST DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS, v. FIRST TRUST
& SAVINGS BANK, TRUSTEE OF YOUNG, DECEASED.
CERMTIORARI TO THE CmCUrr COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUT.

No. 540. Argued January 19, 1922.--Decided February 27,1922.
1. The Income Tax Act of 1913 made no provision for taxing income
held and accumulated by a trustee for unborn and unascerained
beneficiaries. P. 605.

SMIETANKA v. FIRST TRUST & SAVGS. BANK M
602.

Opinion of the Court.

2. Semble that the specific inclusion of such income by the Act of 1916
was a legislative interpretation of the earlier act as not including it.
P. 607.
Affirmed.
CERTiORARi to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of the District Court for the
present respondent, in an action to recover a tax. The
District Court had first sustained a demurrer to the decla,ration, but later, pursuant to a mandate of reversal, (see
268 Fed. 230), overruled it, and rendered judgment
against the present petitioner, who stood upon the demurrer. The case then went again to the court below and
the judgment was afirmed.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Charles H. Weston,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John P. Wilson, with whom Mr. William B. Hale
and Mr. Walter Bruce Howe were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CrF
court.

JusTIcE TAi

delivered the opinion of the

The question presented for decision is whether, under
the Income Tax Law of 1913, income held and accumulated by a trustee for the benefit of unborn and unascertained persons was taxable. The accumulations of income were $789,905.65 for the years 1913, 1914 and 1915,
and the tax collected by the petitioner as Collector, and
paid under protest by the trustee, the respondent,
amounted to $36,638.69. Respondent brought suit for
this sum against the petitioner in the District Court for
the Northern District of Illinois, and judgment was rendered against it on demurrer to the declaration. The-

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
268 Fed. 230. The District Court then overruled the demurrer and, the petitioner electing not to plead further,
rendered a judgment for the respondent, which was
affirmed by the court below on a second appeal. As
this case arises under the revenue laws and the judgment of the Circuit Court is final (§ 128 of the Judicial
Code), certiorari issued under § 240 of the Code.
The income tax here in question was provided for in
"An Act To reduce tariff duties and to provide revenue for
the Government, and for other purposes ", enacted October 3,.1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, and is embodied in § II
of that act (pages 166, et seq.). The tax is imposed by
par. A, subd. 1. It levies a normal tax of one ler cent.
upon the entire yearly net income arising from all sources
accruing to every citizen of the United States and to
every person in the United States residing there. In
subd. 2, an additional or surtax is levied on the net income
of every individual. Under par. G, the normal tax imposed on individuals is extended 'to corporations. Paragraph B defines the net income of individuals and specifies the deductions. Paragraph D makes provision for
returns by persons and then says:
"Guardians, trustees, executors, administrators, agents,
receivers, conservators, and all persons, corporations, or
associations acting in any fiduciary capacity, shall make
and render a return of the net income of the person for
whom they act, subject to this tax, coming into their
custody or control and management, and be subject to all
the provisions of this section which apply to individuals."
Paragraph E provides that, among others, all lessees
or mortgagors of real or personal property, trustees acting
in any trust capacity, executors, administrators, agents,
receivers, conservators, having control, receipt, custody,
disposal or payment of annual gains, profits and income

SMIETANKA v. FIRST TRUST & SAVGS. BANK. 605
602.

Opinion of the Court.

of another person, exceeding $3,000 for any taxable year,
who are required to make return in behalf of another,
shall deduct the normal tax on the income and pay it to
the United States, and they are each made personally
liable for such tax. It is further declared that these payments of the tax at the source shall only apply to the
normal tax thereinbefore imposed on individuals.
It is obvious from a reading of the statute, the relevant provisions of which we have summarized, that Congress was seeking to require fiduciaries to make return
and pay the normal tax due from persons subject to the
tax on such income as the fiduciaries were receiving for
such persons. There was nowhere in the act a payment
required of the fiduciary of a tax upon the income of the
estate or trust property, the income from which he collects, except as it is to enure to the benefit of a person
or an individual from whose income he is authorized and
required to deduct the normal tax thereon. There must
have been a taxable person for whom the fiduciary was
acting to make the provisions relied upon by the Government applicable. There was no provision for the payment "at the source" by the fiduciary of anything but
the normal tax. It was intended that the additional or
surtax should be paid by the cestui que trust. Here there
was no cestui que trust to pay a surtax.
No language in the act included a tax on income received by a trustee by him to be accumulated for unborn
or unascertained beneficiaries. There was indicated in
the taxing paragraph A the congressional intention to
tax citizens everywhere, and non-citizens, resident in the
United States, including persons, natural and corporate,
on income from every source less allowed deductions.
But nowhere were words used which can be stretched
to include unborn beneficiaries for whom income may
be accumulating. It may be that Congress had a gen-

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

eral intention to tax all incomes whether for the benefit
of persons living or unborn, but a general intention of
this kind must be carried into language which can be
reasonably construed to effect it. Otherwise the inten-.
tion can not be enforced by the courts. The provisions
of such acts are not to be extended by implication. Treat
v. White, 181 U. S. 264, 267; United States v. Field,255
U. S. 257; Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151, 153.
The Treasury Department did not attempt, for two
years, to collect tax on income of this character. This
was in accord with the ruling of Deputy Commissioner
of Internal Revenue Speer, dated February 9, 1915, published by the Department (Corporation Trust Co. Income Tax Service 1915, p. 426). He held that "the
income tax ca be levied only on such income as is payable to some natural or artificial person subject to the
provisions of the law."
Subsequently this ruling was changed'and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue held that "whea the beneficiary is not in esse and the income of the estate is retained by the fiduciary, such income will be taxable to
the estate as for an individual, and the fiduciary will pay
the tax both normal and additional." Id., p. 493.
This seems to us to graft something on the statute
that is not there. It is an amendment and not a construction, and such an amendment was made in subsequent income tai laws as we shall see.
Counsel for the Government cite the case of Merchants' Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U. S. 509,
to support their contention. It does not do so because
it deals with an amendment of the provision here under
discussion. The issuer there was the legality of an income tax levied against a trustee for income received
by him under a testamentary trust to pay the net income to the widow for life and afterwards to the chil-

SMIETANKA v. FIRST TRUST &SAVGS. BANK. 607
602.

Opinion of the Court.

dren. It was held that the trustee was a taxable person under the Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, 40 Stat. 331,
which required trustees to render a return of the income
for the person, trust,'orestate for whom or which they act.
The Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 757,
specifically declared that the income accumulated in trust
for the benefit of unborn or unascertained persons should
be taxed and assessed to the trustee. It is obvious that,
in the acts subsequent to that of 1913, Congress sought
to make specific provision for the camu omissus in the
earlier act.
This case is not unlike that of United States v. Field,
255 U. S. 257. The Revenue Act of 1916 imposed a tax
on the estate of a decedent at the time of his death.
The Government sought to tax property passing under
a decedent's testamentary execution of a general power
of appointment. It was held that, while in equity property passing under such a power might be treated as
assets of the donee for the use of his creditors if executed
in favor of a volunteer, it was not subject to distribution as part of the estate of the donee and was not taxable.
In the later act, such property was expressly included.
This was thought by the court to show at least a legislative doubt whether the earlier act included such property.
This court said (p. 264) that it would have been easy
for Congress to express a purpose to tax such property
but it had not done so. In the Act of 1913, it would
have been easy to require a trustee to pay an income
tax on income received by him for unborn beneficiaries
or for the trust or the estate. But Congress did not do'so.
In the next act, it did so. We can not supply the omission in the earlier act.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.

