304

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

MILLER v. AMERICAN BONDING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD

CIRCUIT.

No. 59. Argued November 8, 1921-Decided December 12, 1921.
1. The proceeding which the Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat.
278, as amended February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, permits
to be brought, in the name of the United States, upon the bond
of a public contractor, to satisfy private claims for labor and materials, is a single action at law in which the several claimants are
not entitled as of right to separate trials. P. 307.
2. In actions at law it is only in exceptional instances and for special
and persuasive reasons that distinct causes of action, asserted in the
same case, may be allowed separate trials; and the allowance rests
largely in the court's discretion. P. 308.
262 Fed. 103, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming an order of the District Court striking a case
finally from the trial list.
Mr. James G. Glessner, with whom Mr. R. W. Archbald
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. FrancisB. Bracken for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAw DVX&TER delivered the opinion of
the court.
The American Bonding Company was the surety in a
bond given to the United States to secure the performance
of a contract to construct a public building, at York,
Pennsylvania, and the prompt payment of claims for
labor and material supplied to the contractor in the prosecution of the work. The building was completed and a
final settlement as between the contractor and the United
States was had. No acdion on the bond was begun by the
United States in its own behalf; but an action thereon in
the name of the United States was seasonably brought by

MILLER v. AMERICAN BONDING CO.
304.

305

Opinion of the Court.

Caesar Francini for his use and benefit. He claimed that
he had supplied some of the labor and material and had
not been paid. In due time others making similar claims
intervened in the action for the purpose of presenting
their claims, having them adjudicated and realizing on
the bond. C. E. Miller was one of the claimants who intervened.
_ The bonding company interposed affidavits of defense
to all the claims, and after issue was thus joined the action
was set for trial at a stated session of the court and all the
parties were notified. At the appointed session a trial was
had, before the court and a jury, in which all the claimants other than Miller participated. Although represented by counsel who was present when the trial was
begun, Miller neither asked a continuance nor requested
a separate trial; and yet "without apparent reason or
excuse" he refused and neglected to submit his claim for
adjudication at that time. The jury returned a verdict
for each of the other claimants and a judgment giving
effect to the verdict was entered, the aggregate of the
claims included in the judgment being less than the
amount of the bond. The surety sought a review in the
Circuit Court of Appeals and that court affirmed the judgment as to all the claims but one, and as to it reversed the
judgment with a direction for a new trial. 233 Fed.. 364.
That claim was then compromised and settled, so the new
trial was not had.
Shortly after the trial and verdict Miller caused the
case to be put on the trial list for a separate trial of his
claim. The bonding company promptly challenged his
right to do this, but consented that, if a new trial of the
other claims should be ordered and had, his claim might
be submitted with the others on the retrial. The court
then directed that the case be left off the trial list pending the review in the Circuit Court of Appeals. That review, as we have seen, did not result in a new trial of the

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

other claims or any of them. More than two years after
the review Miller again caused the case to be put on the
trial list, and the court, on the bonding company's motion,
struck it from the list. The court did this on the ground
that the case had been theretofore set for trial and tried,
that on that trial Miller had been afforded and had rejected an opportunity to establish his claim and that he
was not entitled to another 6pportunity to establish it.
256 Fed. 545. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that
decision, 262 Fed. 103, and Miller sued out the present
writ of error.
Whether the court erred in denying Miller another opportunity to establish his claim, and thereby in effect dismissing it, is the question for decision. He particularly
insists that he was entitled as of right to a separate trial
and was not required to participate with other claimants
in a common trial.
The bond was given, and the action was brought under
the Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, as
amended February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811. That act
contemplates and provides for two kinds of action on
such a bond-one brought by the United States in its
own behalf; the other brought in its name for the use
and benefit of a claimant who supplies the contractor with
labor or materials for which the contractor fails to pay.
Where the United States sues in its own behalf any one
having a claim for labor or material used in the work is
accorded a "right to intervene and be made a party" and
to have his claim "adjudicated in such action and judgment rendered thereon," subject to a priority which is
accorded to the claim of the United States; and, if the
recovery on the bond be not sufficient to pay all the
claims, the judgment must direct the payment of the full
amount due the United States and the distribution "pro
rata among said interveners" of the remainder of the recovery. Only when the United States does not sue

MILLER v. AMERICAN BONDING CO.
304.

307

Opinion of the Court.

within six months "from the completion and final settlement of said contract" may an action in its name be
brought by a private claimant for his use and benefit.
Where such a claimant sues "only one action shall be
brought, and any creditor may file his claim in such action and be made party thereto;" and if the recovery on
the bond be not sufficient "to pay the amounts found
due to all of said creditors, judgment shall be given to
each creditor pro rata of the amount of the recovery."
In any suit notice is to be given informing all creditors
of "their right to intervene."
This summary of the act suffices to show that all claims
under the bond are to be presented, adjudicated and enforced in a single action in which every claimant may
intervene and be heard as a party to it. Of course" the
purpose in this is to avoid the expense, confusion and
delay incident to a multiplicity of actions, to enable each
claimant to be heard not only in support of his own claim
but also in opposition to the claims of others in so far as
their allowance may tend to prevent the full payment of
his claim, and generally to conserve the common security
for the benefit of all who are entitled t: share in it.
The right of action given to those who have claims
against the contractor is a creature of the act and the
mode of enforcement there prescribed cannot be disregarded. Texas PortlandCement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S.
157, 162; United States v. Congress Construction Co.,
222 U. S. 199. We have held that the enforcement is to
be in a proceeding at law, and not in equity. Illinois
Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, 223. The provision
that there shall be but one action, which shall be open to
all claimants, and the provision dealing with the judgment to be entered, show that the action is to proceed as a
single case. There is nothing in the act.indicative of a
purpose to accord to each claimant a separate trial as of
right; and to do so would make the provision for a single

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Orders.

257 U. S.

action of little avail. In actions at law the general practice is to try all the issues in a case at one time; and it is
only in exceptional instances where there are special and
persuasive reasons for departing from this practice that
distinct causes of action asserted in the same case may be
made the subjects of separate trials. Whether this reasonably may be done in any particular instance rests largely
in the court's discretion. See Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. Hillmon, 188 U. S. 208, 210.
We conclude that Miller was not entitled as of right to
a separate trial and that on this record it cannot be said
that the court erred in refusing him a second opportunity
to establish his claim, and in effect dismissing it.
Judgment affirmed.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN MQUIry.

No. 20, Original.
ORDERS ENTERED DECEMB]EU 12, 1921.

Granting leave to intervene.
The motion of the Grand Oil & Developing Company,
submitted December 9, 1921, is granted to the extent that
said company is hereby given leave to file a petition in
intervention setting up its rights and claims in and to
any portion of the territory in dispute by reason of the
controversy as to the location of the boundary line between the States of Oklahoma and Texas; without waiver
of the right of said company to object to the jurisdiction
Qf this court over the subject-matter.

