FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 441
419.

Syllabus.

It is not necessary to review or comment upon them.
They are testimony of what the judiciary of the country
considered and consider The Siren and other cases decided.
Therefore we cannot refrain from saying that it is strange,
that notwithstanding the language of The Siren,its understanding and acceptance in many cases in this court, the
enforcement of its doctrine at circuit and district, it should
now be declared erroneous. The cases at bar would seem
to be cases for the application of the maxim of stare decisis
which ought to have force enough to resist a change based
on finesse of reasoning or attracted by the possible accomplishment of a theoretical correctness.
The rules should be discharged.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. BEECH-NUT
PACKING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 47. Argued November 10, 14, 192L-Decided January 3, 1922.
1. A trader does not violate the Sherman Act by simply refusing to
sell his goods or by withholding them from those who do not sell
them at the resale prices he fixes; but he may not, by contracts or
combinations express or implied, unduly hinder or obstruct the
free and natural flow of interstate commerce. P. 452.
2. The public policy evinced in the Sherman Act is to be considered
in determining what are "unfair methods of competition" within
the Federal Trade Commission Act. P. 453.
3. A plan of merchandising, in interstate trade, which has a dangerous
tendency unduly to hinder competition or to create monopoly, the
Federal Trade Commission has authority to order suppressed. P.
454.
4. The respondent manufacturer, for the purpose of maintaining resale prices fixed by itself, declined to sell its products to jobbers,
wholesalers or retailers who did not observe them or who sold to
other dealers who failed to do so, and, to enforce this policy, ob-

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondent.

257 U. S.

tained, by the cooperation of its customers and through its agents
and salesmen, and by marking and tracing the cases of its goods,

the names of dealers who cut the prices or who sold to others
who did so, and enrolled them as undesirable customers to whom

it did not sell until they gave satisfactory assurances of their purpose to conform in the future. By these mess it was enabled to
suppress competition in the disposition of its products after it had
sold them, by preventing all who did not conform to the resale
prices from obtaining more goods, although there was no contract
for fixing, maintaining or enforcing the resale prices. Held, that
these, or any other equivalent cooperative means, should be enjoined, upon an order of the Federal Trade Commission, as an
unfair method of competition. P. 454.
264 Fed. 885, reversed.

CQToRARI to review a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals setting aside an order of the Federal Trade
Commission.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. W. H.
Fuller,Mr. Marshall B. Clarke and Mr. Adrien F. Busick
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Wesley Dunn for respondent.
The Sherman Act does not deprive a manufacturer or

trader, engaged in an entirely private business and exercising his independent discretion in the normal course of
his trade without any purpose to create or maintain a
monopoly, of his fundamental right of freedom to trade,
existing at common law, to wit, the right freely to sell his
own property (consisting of legitimate articles of commerce) or not, as he pleases, for any reason he pleases, to
whom he pleases, and to announce in advance the circumstances under which he will refuse to sell, who, when he
does sell, imposes no restraint whatever upon the right of
future alienation, by restrictive agreements (express or
implied), since that act was enacted to preserve such
fundamental right of freedom to trade, and not to impair
or destroy it.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 443
441.

Opinion of the Court.

Likewise, ยง 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
does not deprive a manufacturer or trader, engaged in an
entirely private business and exercising his independent
discretion in the normal course of his trade without any
unlawful purpose (a purpose either opposed to good
morals because characterized by fraud, deception, misrepresentation, bad faith, intimidation, oppression, or
some other such wrongful element, or against public
policy because involving undue restraint of trade or
monopoly, actual or potential, or the doing of any act
otherwise prohibited by law), of this fundamental common-law right of freedom to trade, since that act, as in
the case of the Clayton Act, was enacted to supplement
and strengthen the Sherman Act, and thus more completely and effectually to preserve and protect such fundamental right of freedom to trade, and not to impair or
destroy it.
And if ยง 5 of the Trade Commission Act may be construed and is applied to deprive a manufacturer or trader
of this fundamental right, then that section violates the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
The theory upon which the Commission predicates its
charge and conclusion that the refusal-to-sell policy of the
respondent involves the use of an unfair method of competition outlawed by ยง 5, is conclusively established to
be without any support or justification whatever, either
in fact or law, when tested by the agreed facts and the
applicable principles of law.
MP. JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here upon a writ of certiorari to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
which court set aside an order of the Federal Trade Commission requiring the Beech-Nut Packing Company, a
corporation engaged in the manufacture and sale of food
and other products throughout the United States, to

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

cease and desist. from carrying out a plan of resale of its
products.' 264 Fed. 885.
The Commission condemned the plan as an unfair
method of competition within the meaning of ยง 5 of the
Federal Trade Commission Act. (38 Stat. 719).
In the original complaint it was charged that, in order
to accomplish the illegal purpose intended, the Beech-Nut
Company required its purchasers to agree to maintain or
resell such products at standard selling prices, and that,
for the purpose of maintaining such standard resale prices
and for the purpose of inducing and compelling its customers to maintain and keep such standard prices, the
company refused to sell its products to customers and
dealers who would not agree to maintain such specified
standard resale prices, and who did resell such products at the specified standard selling prices fixed and
determined by the company. By stipulation before trial
the complaint was amended so as to charge: That the
Beech-Nut Company has adopted and enforced a system
of fixing and maintaining certain specified standard prices
at which its chewing gum and food products shall be
therefore, it is ordered, that respondent, Beech-Nut
Packing Company, its officers, directors, agents, servants, and employees cease and desist from directly or indirectly recommending,
requiring, or by any means bringing about the resale of Beech-Nut
products by distributors, whether at wholesale or retail, according to
any system of prices fixed or established by respondent, and more
particularly by any or all of the following means:
" 1. Refusing to sell to any such distributors because of their failure to adhere to any such system of resale prices;
"2. Refusing to sell to any such distributors because of their having resold respondent's said products to other distributors who have
failed to adhere to any such system of resale prices;
"3. Securing or seeking to secure the cooperation of its distributors
in maintaining or enforcing any such system of resale prices;
"4. Carrying out or causing others to carry out a resale price
maintenance policy by any other means."
1,,Now,

EDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 445
441.

Opinion of the Court.

resold by purchasers thereof, including jobbers, wholesalers and retailers, with the purpose and effect of securing the trade of such jobbers, wholesalers and retailers,
and of enlisting their active support and cooperation in
enlarging the sale of respondent's products, to the prejudice of its competitors who do not require and enforce the
maintenance of resale prices for their products; and with
the purpose and effect of eliminating competition in
prices among all jobbers, wholesalers and retailers, respectively, engaged in handling the products manufactured by the company; thereby depriving such distributors of their right to sell, and preventing them from selling, its products at such prices as they may deem to be,
and as are, adequate and warranted by their respective
selling costs and efficiency, and with various other effects;
and that the company, as a means of making effective its
system of resale prices and of inducing and compelling its
customers and the dealer customers of its customers to
maintain such resale prices, has for more than two years
last past: Made it generally known to jobbers, wholesalers and retailers, respectively, that it required and
insisted that they should sell its products at the resale
prices so fixed by it, and refused to sell to jobbers, wholesalers or retailers not maintaining such prices; that the
company threatened to and did refuse to sell to all jobbers, wholesalers and retailers who failed to maintain the
resale prices so fixed by it, or who sold to other distributors who failed to maintain such prices; induced or compelled the jobbers, wholesalers and retailers, by divers
other means, not only to maintain its resale prices so
fixed, but also to discontinue selling its products to other
jobbers, wholesalers and retailers who did not maintain
such resale prices; that the company caused the diversion
of retailers' orders away from jobbers and wholesalers who
did not maintain such resale prices so fixed by it, or who

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

had resold its products to other jobbers, wholesalers or
retailers who had failed to maintain such, resale prices,
and caused such orders to be given to other jobbers and
wholesalers who had maintained such resale prices and/or
had refused to supply other jobbers, wholesalers and retailers failing to maintain such prices; that the company
solicited and secured the coperation of wholesalers, jobbers and retailers in reporting price cutters, all in pursuance of its efforts to ascertain the names of all distributors
of its products who had failed to maintain the resale
prices fixed by it and/or who had resold to other jobbers,
wholesalers and retailers failing to maintain such prices;
that it entered in card records kept by it the names of all
dealers reported to it, either- in this or other ways, as not
maintaining its resale prices or as selling to other distributors not maintaining such prices, and has taken
various measures to prevent all such dealers from obtaining further shipments of its products from any
source until it has received from them declarations,
promises, assurances, statements, or other similar expressions, to the effect that in the future such dealers intend
to and will sell such products at the resale prices fixed
by the company and will refrain from selling the same to
other jobbers, wholesalers and retailers failing to maintain
such prices; that respondent employed various other
means and methods for the enforcement of its system of
maintaining resale prices.
The case was heard before the Commission upon an
agreed statement of facts, from which, among other
things, it found:
The Beech-Nut Packing Company customarily markets
its products principally through jobbers and wholesalers
in the grocery, drug, candy and tobacco lines, who in
turn resell to retailers in these lines. Such wholesale and
retail dealers are selected as desirable customers because
they are known or believed to be of good credit standing,

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 447
441.

Ophion of the Court.

who are willing to resell at the resale prices suggested
by the company and who do resell at such prices, who are
willing to refuse to sell and who do refuse to sell to jobbers, wholesalers and retailers who do not resell at the
resale prices suggested by the company, and who do not
sell to such jobbers, wholesalers and retailers, who in other
respects are good and satisfactory merchandisers. Such
jobbers, wholesalers and retailers are designated by the
company as "selected" or "desirable" dealers. In a few
instances the company also sells " direct" to certain large
retailers who are selected as are the jobbers, wholesalers
and retailers. The total number of such dealers, handling the products of the company, includes the greater
portion of the jobbers, wholesalers and retailers, respectively, in the grocery trades, and a large proportion of
the jobbers, wholesalers and retailers in the drug, candy,
and tobacco trades, respectively, throughout the United
States.
The company has adopted and maintained, and still
maintained at the time complaint was filed by the Commission, in the sale and distribution of its products, a
policy known as the "Beech-Nut Policy ", and requests
the cooperation therein of all dealers selling the products
manufactured by it, dealing with each customer separately.
In order to secure such cooperation and to carry out the
Beech-Nut Policy, the company:
Issues circulars. price lists, and letters to the trade generally, showing 'suggested uniform resale prices, both
wholesale and retail, to be charged for Beech-Nut products.
Requests and insists that the selected jobbers, wholesalers and retailers sell only to such other jobbers, wholesalers and retailers as have been and are willing to resell
and do resell at the prices so suggested by the company;
and requests and insists that such jobbers, wholesalers

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

and retailers discontinue selling to other jobbers, wholesalers and retailers who fail to resell at the prices so suggested by the company.
Makes it known broadcast to such selected jobbers,
wholesalers and retailers, whether sold "direct" or not,
that, if they, or any.of them, fail to sell at the resale prices
suggested by the company, it will absolutely refuse to sell
further supplies of its products to them, or any of them,
and will also absolutely refuse to sell to any jobbers,
wholesalers and retailers whomsoever who sell to other
jobbers, wholesalers and retailers failing to resell at the
prices suggested by the company.
The company, in the carrying out of its policy, has refused and does refuse to sell its products to practically all
such jobbers, wholesalers and retailers as do not sell at
the prices so suggested by it. It has refused and does
refuse to sell to practically all such jobbers, wholesalers
and retailers reselling to other jobbers, wholesalers and
retailers who have failed to resell at the prices so suggested by it. It has refused and does refuse to sell to
practically all so-called mail-order houses engaged in interstate commerce, on the ground that such mail-order
houses frequently sell at cut prices, and has refused and
does refuse to sell to practically all jobbers, wholesalers
and retailers who sell its products to such mail-order
houses. It has refused and does refuse to sell to practically all so-called price cutters. It has maintained and
does maintain a large force of so-called specialty salesmen
or representatives, who call upon the retail trade and
solicit orders therefrom to be filled through jobbers and
wholesalers, which orders are commonly known in the
trade as "turnover orders "; its salesmen, under respondent's instructions, have refused and do refuse to accept
any such turnover orders to be filled through jobbers and
wholesalers who themselves sell or have sold at less than
the suggested resale prices, or sell or have sold to job-

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 449
441.

Opinion of the Court.

bers, wholesalers and retailers who sell or have sold at less
than such suggested resale prices; and in such cases has
requested such retailers to name other jobbers.
The company has reinstated and does reinstate as distributors of its products jobbers, wholesalers and retailers
previously cut off or withdrawn from the list of selected
jobbers, wholesalers and retailers for failure to. resell at
the prices suggested by it, and for selling to distributors
who do not maintain such suggested resale prices, upon
the basis of declarations, assurances, statements, promises,
and similar expressions, as the case may be, by such distributors, respectively, who satisfy the company that such
distributors will thereafter resell at the prices suggested
by it and will refuse to sell to distributors who do not
maintain such suggested resale prices.
The company has added and does add to its lst of new
distributors, concerns reported by its representatives as
declaring that they intend to and will resell at the prices
suggested by it and will refuse to sell to those who do
not maintain such suggested resale prices. That it has
utilized a system of key numbers or symbols stamped or
marked upon the cases containing the "Beech-Nut
Brand" products, thus enabling it, for any purpose whatsoever, to ascertain the identity of the distributors from
whom such products were purchased; and that repeatedly, when instances of price-cutting have been reported
to it by the selected wholesalers and retailers, or ascertained in other ways, its salesmen and representatives
have been instructed by it to investigate, and that in
pursuance of these instructions they have by means of
these key numbers or symbols traced the price-cutters
from whom the goods have been obtained, and have thus
ascertained the identity of such price cutters, and have
also thus traced and ascertained the identity of distributors from whom price cutters have purchased "Beech-

Nut Brand " products; and it has thereafter refused to

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

supply all such dealers with its products, whether such
dealers were themselves cutting the suggested resale prices
or were selling to dealers cutting the suggested resale
prices.
The company has maintained and does maintain card
records containing the names of thousands of jobbing,
wholesale and retail distributors, including the selected
distributors, and in furtherance of its refusal to sell goods
either to distributors selling at less than the suggested
resale price, or to distributors selling to other distributors
selling at less than the suggested resale prices, has listed'
upon those cards, bearing the names of such distributors,
the words" Undesirable-Price Cutters ", "Do Not Sell ",
or "D. N. S.", the abbrevation for "Do Not Sell ", or
expressions of a like character, to indicate that the particular distributor was in the future not to be supplied
with respondent's goods on account of failure to maintain the suggested resale prices, or on account of failure
to discontinue selling to dealers failing to maintain such
suggested resale prices. When the company has received
declarations, assurances, statements, promises, or similar
expressions, as the case may be, by distributors which
satisfy it that such distributors will resell at the prices
suggested by it, and discontinue selling to distributors
failing to maintain the resale prices suggested by it, it
has issued instructions to "Clear the record," or directions of similar import, notation of which is made on the
cards, and it has thereafter permitted shipments of its
products to be made to such distributors; and such distributors to whom shipments are thus allowed to go forward constitute the company's list of so-called "selected"
jobbers, wholesalers and retailers, and no distributor is
thus listed on such card records as one to whom goods
are allowed to go forward who fails to maintain the resale prices suggested by it or sells to distributors failing
to resell at such suggested prices; and when a jobber,

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 451
441.

Opinion of the Court.

wholesaler or retailer is reported as failing to maintain
the suggested resale prices, and has been entered in the
card records as one to whom shipments should not go
forward,. respondent notifies those jobbers, wholesalers
and retailers who supply the distributor, of this fact, and
also notifies its specialty salesmen, and gives similar
notices to such jobbers, wholesalers and retailers and to
its specialty salesmen when reinstatements are made in
its list of "selected" jobbers, wholesalers and retailers.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that the
only difference between the price-fixing policy condemned
as unlawful in Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co.,
220 U. S. 373, and the price-fixing plan embodied in the
Beech-Nut policy was that in the former case there was
an agreement in writing, while in this case the success or
failure of the plan depended upon a tacit understanding
with purchasers and prospective purchasers. While it expressed its difficulty in seeing any difference between a
written agreement and a tacit understanding in their effect
upon the restraint of trade, it, nevertheless, regarded the
case as governed by the decision of this court in United
States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, and, accordingly,
held that the Commission had exceeded its power in making the order appealed from.
The Colgate Case was prosecuted under the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act and came to this court under the Criminal
Appeals Act. We therein held that this court must accept the construction of the indictment as made in the
District Court; and, that, upon such construction, the
only act charged amounted to the exercise of the right of
the trader, or manufacturer, engaged in private business,
to exercise his own discretion as to those with whom he,
would deal, and to announce the circumstances under
which he would refuse to sell, and that, thud interpreted,
no act was charged in the indictment which amounted to
a violation of the Sherman Act, prohibiting monopolies,

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of
interstate commerce.
In the subsequent case of United States v. Schrader's
Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85, this court had occasion to deal with
a case under the Criminal Appeals Act, wherein there was
a charge that a manufacturer sold to manufacturers in
several States under an agreement to observe certain resale prices fixed by the vendor,--which we held to be a
violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. In referring to
the Colgate Case we said: "The court below misapprehended the meaning and effect of the opinion and judgment in that cause. We had no intention to overrule or
modify the doctrine of Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park &
Sons Co., [220 U. S. 373] where the effort was to destroy
the dealers' independent discretion through restrictive
agreements. Under the interpretation adopted by the
trial court and necessarily accepted by us, the indictment
failed to charge that Colgate & Company made agreements, either express or implied, which undertook to obligate vendees to observe specified resale prices; and it was
treated' as alleging only recognition of the manufacturer's
undoubted right to specify resale prices and refuse to deal
with anyone who failed to maintain the same.'"
In the still later case of Frey & Son v. Cudahy Packing
Co., 256 U. S. 208, wherein this court again had occasion to
consider the subject, it was said of the previous decisions
in United States v. Colgate & Co., and United States v.
Schrader'sSon., Inc., supra: "Apparently the former case
was misapprehended. The latter opinion distinctly stated
that the essential agreement, combination or conspiracy
might be implied from a course of dealing or other circumstances."
By these decisions it is settled that in prosecutions
under the Sherman Act a trader is not guilty of violating
its terms who simply refuses to sell to others, and he may
withhold his goods from those who will not sell them at the

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 453
441.

Opinion of the Court.

prices which he fixes for their resale. He may not, consistently with the act, go beyond the exercise of this right,
and by contracts or combinations, express or implied, unduly hinder or obstruct the free and natural flow of commerce in the channels of interstate trade.
The Sherman Act is not involved here except in so far
as it shows a declaration of public policy to be considered
in determining what are unfair methods of competition,
which the Federal Trade Commission is empowered to
condemn and suppress. The case now before us was
begun under the Federal Trade Commission Act which
was intended to supplement previous anti-trust legislation. (See Report No. 597, of the Senate Committee on
Interstate Commerce, June 13, 1914, 63rd Cong., 2nd
sess.) That act declares unlawful "unfair methods of
competition" and gives the Commission authority after
hearing to make orders to compel the discontinuance of
such methods. What shall constitute unfair methods of
competition denounced by the act, is left without specific
definition. Congress deemed it better to leave the subject without precise definition, and to have each case determined upon its own facts, owing to the multifarious
means by which it is sought to effectuate such schemes.
The Commission, in the first instance, subject to the judicial review provided, has the determination of practices
which come within the scope of the act. (See Report,
No. 597, Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, June
13, 1914, 63rd Cong., 2nd sess.)
Of the Federal Trade Commission Act we said, in Federal Trade Commission v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 427:
"The words 'unfair method of competition' are not defined by the statute and their exact meaning is in dispute.
It is for the courts, not the commission, ultimately to determine as matter of law what they include. They are
clearly inapplicable to practices never heretofore regarded
as opposed to good morals because characterized by de-

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

ception, bad faith, fraud or oppression, or as against public policy because of their dangerous tendency unduly to
hinder competition or create monopoly. The act was certainly not intended to fetter free and fair competition as
commonly understood and practiced by honorable opponents in trade."
If the "Beech-Nut System of Merchandising" is against
public policy because of its "dangerous tendency unduly
to hinder competition or create monopoly," it was within
the power of the Commission to make an order forbidding its continuation. We have already seen to what extent the declaration of public policy, contained in the
Sherman Act, permits a trader to go. The facts found
show that the Beech-Nut system goes far beyond the
simple refusal to sell goods to persons who will not sell
at stated prices, which in the Colgate Case was held to be
within the legal right of the producer.
The system here disclosed necessarily constitutes a
scheme which restrains the natural flow of commerce and
the freedom of competition in the channels of interstate
trade which it has been the purpose of all'the anti-trust
acts to maintain. In its practical operation it necessarily
constrains the trader, if he would have the products of the
Beech-Nut Company, to maintain the,prices "suggested"
by it. If he fails so to do, he is subject to be reported to
the company either by special agents, numerous and active in that behalf, or by dealers whose aid is enlisted in
maintaining the system and the prices fixed by it. Furthermore, he is enrolled upon a list known as "Undesirable-Price Cutters," to whom goods are not to be sold,
and who are only to be reinstated as one whose record is
"clear" and to whom sales may be made upon his giving
satisfactory assurance that he will not resell the goods of
the company except at the prices suggested by it, and will
refuse to sell to distributors who do not maintain such
prices.

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 455
441.

Opinion of the Court.

From this course of conduct a court may infer, indeed
cannot escape the conclusion, that competition among retail distributors is practically suppressed; for all who
would deal in the company's products are constrained to
sell at the suggested prices. Jobbers and wholesale dealers who would supply the trade may not get the goods of
the company, if they sell to those who do not observe the
prices indicated or who are on the company's list of undesirables, until they are restored to favor by satisfactory
assurances of future compliance with the company's
schedules of resale prices. Nor is the inference overcome
by the conclusion stated in the Commission's findings that
the merchandising conduct of the company does not constitute a contract or contracts whereby resale prices are
fixed, maintained, or enforced. The specific facts found
show suppression of the freedom of competition by
methods in which the company secures the coSperation of
its distributors and customers, which are quite as effectual as agreements express or implied intended to accomplish the same purpose. By these methods the company,
although selling its products at prices satisfactory to it,
is enabled to prevent competition in their subsequent disposition by preventing all who do not sell at resale prices
fixed by it from obtaining its goods.
Under the facts established, we have no doubt of the
authority and power of the Commission to order a discontinuance of practices in trading, such as are embodied in
the system of the Beech-Nut Company.
We are, however, of opinion that the order of the Commission is too broad. The order should have required the
company to cease and desist from carrying into effect its
so-called Beech-Nut Policy by coSperative methods in
which the respondent and its distributors, customers and
agents undertake to prevent others from obtaining the
company's products at less than the prices designated by

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
HoLus, J., dissenting.

257 U.S.

it--() by the practice of reporting the names of dealers
who do not observe such resale prices; (2) by causing
dealers to be enrolled upon lists of undesirable purchasers
who are not to be supplied with the products of the company unless and until they have given satisfactory assurances of their purpose to maintain such designated prices
in the future; (3) by employing salesmen or agents to
assist in such plan by reporting dealers who do not observe
such resale prices, and giving orders of purchase only to
such jobbers and wholesalers as sell at the suggested prices
and refusing to give such orders to dealers who sell at less
than such prices, or who sell to others who sell at less than
such prices; (4) by utilizing numbers and symbols
marked upon cases containing their products with a view
to ascertaining the names of dealers who sell the company's products at less than the suggested prices, or who
sell to others who sell at less than such prices in order to
prevent such dealers from obtaining the products of the
company; or (5) by utilizing any other equivalent cooperative means of accomplishing the maintenance of
prices fixed by the company.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court with instructions to enter judgment in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HoLm-Es, dissenting.

There are obvious limits of propriety to the persistent
expression of opinions that do not command the agreement of the Court. But as this case presents a somewhat
new field-the determination of what is unfair competition within the meaning of the Federal Trade Commission Act-I venture a few words to explain my dissent. I
will not recur to fundamental questions. The ground on

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 457
441.

HoLmEs, J., dissenting.

which the respondent is held guilty is that its conduct has
a dangerous tendency unduly to hinder competition or to
create monopoly. It is enough to say that this I cannot
understand. So far as the Sherman Act is concerned I
had supposed that its policy was aimed against attempts
to create a monopoly in the doers of the condemned act
or to hinder competition with them. Of course there can
be nothing of that sort here. The respondent already has
the monopoly of its own goods with the full assent of the
law and no one can compete with it with regard to those
goods, which are the only ones concerned. It seems obvious that the respondent is not creating a monopoly in
them for anyone else, although I see nothing to hinder
its doing so by conveying them all to one single vendee.
The worst that can be said, so far as I see, is that it hinders competition among those who purchase from it. But
it seems to me that the very foundation of the policy of
the law to keep competition open is that the subjectmatter of the competition would be open to all but for
the hindrance complained of. I cannot see what that
policy has to do with a subject-matter that comes from
a single hand that is admitted to be free to shut as closely
as it will. And, to come back to the words of the statute,
I cannot see how it is unfair competition to say to those
to whom the respondent sells, and to the world, you can
have my goods only on the terms that I propose, when
the existence of any competition in dealing with them
depends upon the respondent's will. I see no wrong in so
doing, and if I did I should not think it a wrong within
the possible scope of the word unfair. Many unfair devices have been exposed'in suits under the Sherman Act,
but to whom the respondent's conduct is unfair I do not
understand.
MR. JusTIcE McKEYNA

concur in this opinion.

and

MR. JusTIcE BRADwis

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
McRYoLDs, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

MR. JusTicE McRF YoTJs, dissenting.

With regret, I dissent from the opinion and judgment
of the court.
This matter was submitted to the Commission upon an
Agreed Statement of Facts, the twelfth clause of whichthe last but one-declares: "12. That the merchandising conduct of respondent heretofore defined and as herein
involved does not constitute a contract or contracts
whereby resale prices are fixed, maintained and enforced."
Of course, the Packing Company entered into this
stipulation relying upon the quoted clause; and I am not
at liberty either to disregard it or to minimize the plain
import of its words.. It is not a mere conclusion of the
Commission but a definite and essential admission of
record upon which the Company rested and without
which I must conclude a different case might have been
presented.
There is no question of monopoly. Acting alone, respondent certainly had the clear right freely to select its
customers-to refuse to deal when dnd as it saw fit-and
to announce that future sales would be limited to those
whose conduct met with its approval. United States v.
Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300; United States v. Schrader's
Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85; Frey &,Son v. Cudahy Packing
Co., 256 U. S. 208.
If the solemn stipulation did not expressly negative the
existence of contracts amongst the parties to maintain
prices, I should think the detailed facts sufficient to support a finding that there were such agreements. But
starting with that plain negation I can find no adequate
ground for condemning the respondent.
The very order which the court below is now directed
to enter conflicts with the stipulation between the parties
by presupposing "methods of cooperation between respondent and the distributors of its products, especially
the cooperative methods by which the respondent and the

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. BEECH-NUT CO. 459
441.

McRroIows, J., dissenting.

distributors of its products undertake to prevent others
from obtaining such products at less than the prices fixed
by respondent, (by) the cooperation of customers in reporting the names of dealers who do not observe such
resale prices with the view to prevent their obtaining
the product of the Beech-Nut Company thereafter".
How can there be methods of cooperation, cooperative
methods, an undertaking to prevent others, or the cooperation of customers with a view to prevent others, when
the existence of the essential contracts is definitely excluded?
Having the undoubted right to sell to whom it will, why
should respondent be enjoined from writing down the
names of dealers regarded as undesirable customers? Nor
does there appear to be any wrong in maintaining special
salesmen who turn over orders to selected wholesalers
and who honestly in'vgstigate and report to their principal
the treatment accorded its products by dealers. Finally,
as respondent may freely select customers, how can injury result from marks on packages which enable it to
trace their movementsO The privilege to sell or not to
sell at will surely involves the right by open and honest
means to ascertain what selected customers do with goods
voluntarily sold to them.
Under the circumstances disclosed, constraint upon the
freedom of merchants can only result from withholding
trade relations or threatening so to do. These, when acting alone, respondent may assume or decline at pleasure,
there being neither monopoly nor attempt to monopolize.
And the exercise of this right does not become an unfair
method of competition merely because some dealers cannot obtain goods which they desire, and others may be
deterred from selling at reduced prices. If a manufacturer should limit his customers to consumers he would
thereby destroy competition among dealers, but neither
they nor the public could complain.

