WALLACE v. UNITED STATES.
536.

Syllabus.

must be taken to be familiar with the general provisions
of the tariff act. When an importer specifies in his protest a paragraph under which he claims his importation
should be classified, the collector should enquire not only
whether the article comes within the paragraph named,
but also whether it so resembles the articles specifically
described therein as to require it to be classified thereunder. After satisfying himself that the article does not
come within the specific description of the named paragraph, its resemblance to articles which do should be his
"first inquiry."
The quoted words of paragraph 386 mention no specific
rate. Any reference to them in a protest would be meaningless unless accompanied by mention of some taxing
paragraph. It is the latter which taxes the article under
the general rule of interpretation which these words fur-

nish.
It is said thereby that resemblance.is a question of fact,
but it is one not very different from that involved in the
classification of articles within the specifiQ description of
the paragraph. The object of the protest is to put the
collector on inquiry not alone as to the law but also as to
the facts which make the law applicable. The reasoning of the Court of Customs Appeals meets our approval
and the judgment is
Affirmed.
WALLACE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 118. Argued January 27, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
1. The limitations sought to be imposed upon the President's power to
remove an Army officer (118th Article of War, 39 Stat. 669; Rev.
Stats., §§ 1342, 1230) do not apply when the removal is effected

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

by the President with the consent of the Senate, through the appointment of another to his place. P. 544.
2. The court notices judicially that nominations to office are usually
referred to a committee of the Senate--in this case the Military
Committee-for investigation and report, and the duty of the committee to inquire into the existence of a vacancy to which the appointment can be made. P. 546.
3. Where the President undertook to remove an Army officer and
nominated another to take his place as of the day following the removal, without mentioning the removal, held, that the Senate,
which confirmed the iomination, must be presumed to have known
the confirmation would fill the legal complement of such officers
and to have joined in the removal. P. 545.
4. To allow pay for an officer whose place has been filled by nomination and confirmation, there must be special legislative authority.
P. 546.
5. Qucere: Whether claimant lost his right to aply for a court-martial under Rev. Stats., § 1230, by waiting five months after his
removal by the President? P. 547.
55 Ct. Clms. 396, affirmed.

CiAImiNG to be a Colonel in the Quartermaster Corps
of the United States Army, the appellant sued in the
Court of Claims to recover $6,580.67 salary and commutation of quarters from February 13, 1918, until March 12,
1919: His petition was dismissed.
The President, on the recommendation of the Secretary of War, issued an order dismissing the appellant
from the service by General Orders No. 17, of February
13, 1918, of which he was notified on the same day. The
United States was then at war with Germany. On March
1, 1918, the President sent to the Senate the following
nominations:
"I nominate the officers herein named for promotion
in the Army of the United States.
QUARTERMASTER CORPS.
To be Colonels.
Lieutenant Colonel Robert S. Smith, Quartermaster
Corps, with rank frorl February 14, 1918.

WALLACE v. UNITED STATES.
541

Opinion of the Court.

Lieutenant Colonel Richmond MeA. Scofield, Quartermaster Corps, with rank from February 23, 1918.
To be Lieutenant Colonels.
Major Morton J. Henry, Quartermaster Corps, with
rank from February 14, 1918..
Major William Elliott, Quartermaster Corps, with rank
from February 23, 1918."
These officers were confirmed March 8, 1918. This
filled the complement of 21 officers allowed by law in the
grade of Colonel in the Quartermaster Corps.
On July 16 appellant made a formal application in
writing for trial by court-martial, setting forth under oath
that he had been wrongfully dismissed. On September
14, 1918, the trial was refused by the Secretary and no
court-martial was convened.
Prior to June 24, 1918, plaintiff did not have knowledge of § 1230, Rev. Stats. He had been advised after
his dismissal that he could seek relief through Congress.
Mr. H. Stanley Hinrichs and Mr. Frank S. Bright for
appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Charles H. Weston,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. CmmF JusTcE TAT, after stating the case, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
The President acted under the 118th Article of War,
which provides in part (39 Stat. 619, 650, 669) that,
"No officer shall be discharged or dismissed from the
service except by order of the President or by sentence.
of a general court-martial; and in time of peace no officer shall be dismissed except in pursuance of the sentence
of a court-martial or in mitigation thereof."

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

This article is only a reenactment of the 99th Article
of War contained in the Revised Statutes, § 1342. Both
are, therefore, to be read with § 1230, Rev. Stats., which is
as follows:
"When any officer, dismissed by order of the President,
makes, in writing, an application for trial, setting forth,
under oath, that he has been wrongfully dismissed, the
President shall, as soon as the necessities of the service
may permit, convene a court-martial, to try such officer
on the charges on which he shall have been dismissed.
And if a court-martial is not so convened within six
months from the presentation of such application for
trial, or if such court, being convened, does not award
dismissal or death as the punishment of such officer, the
order of dismissal by the President shall be void."
Appellant claims that by the failure to grant him a
court-martial, his dismissal under § 1230 was rendered
void ab initio and that he is still a Colonel.
The first question is whether he ceased to be a member of
the Army by the nomination and confirmation of another
which filled the complement of officers allowed by law
in his rank. It is clear from the reasoning of this court
in the case of Blake v.,United States, 103 U. S. 227, that
the words "by order of the President," in § 1230, Rev.
Stats., 8upra, refer to a dismissal by the President alone,
and do not include the removal of an officer by the appointment and confirmation of his successor.
Before the Civil War there was no restriction upon the
President's power to remove an officer of the Army or
Navy. The principle that the power of removal was incident to the power of appointment was early determined
by the Senate to involve the conclusion that, at least
in absence of restrictive legislation, the President, though
he could not appoint without the consent of the Senate,
could remove without such consent in the case of any
officer whose tenure was not fixed by the Constitution.

WALLACE v. UNITED STATES.
541.

545

Opinion of the Court.

The first legislative restriction upon this power was enacted March 3, 1865, by the very provision we are here
considering (13 Stat. 489), which subsequently became
§ 1230, Rev. Stats. Thereafter, on JuMy 13, 1866, Congress took away altogether the power of the President to
dismiss an officer of the Army or Navy in time of peace,
except in pursuance of a court-martial sentence or in
commutation thereof (c. 176, 14 Stat. 92). After that,
in the controversy between President Johnson and the
Senate, the tenure of office act was passed which cut
down the power of the President to remove civil officers.
Act of March 2,1867, c. 154,14 Stat. 430. The validity of
these acts has never been directly passed on by this court
in any case. The question has been expressly saved. Parsons v. United States, 167 U. S. 324, 339.
While, thus, the validity and effect of statutory restrictions upon the power of the President alone to remove
officers of the Army and Navy and civil officers have been
the subject of doubt and discussion, it is settled, McElrath
v. United States, 102 U. S. 426; Blake v. United States,
103 U. S. 227; Keyes v. United States, 109 U. S. 336;
Mullan v. United States, 140 U. S. 240, that the President
with the consent of the Senate may effect the removal of
an officer of the Army or Navy by the appointment of
another to his place, and that none of the limitations in
the statutes affects his power of removal when exercised
by and with the consent of the Senate. Ifideed the same
ruling has been made as to civil officers. Parsons v.
United States, 167 U. S. 324.
The questionlhere, then, is whether the Senate joined
the President in his removal of the appellant. That the
President intended to separate him from the Army is, of
course, plain. What are we to infer from the Senate's action in confirming appointments by the President which
filled the complement of officers of the rank of appellant
allowed by law? The appointment of Lieut. Colonel

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court

257 U. S.

Robert Smith was made two weeks after the announcement in General Orders of the dismissal of appellant and
was made to confer the rank as of February 14th, the day
after appellant was dismissel. The appointment did not
say, as is usual in"such cases, vice Wallace dismissed; but
the facts of record in the War Department and in General Orders leave no doubt of the intention of the President and the Department in that regard. This raises the
inquiry what we should presume as to the knowledge of
the Senate in the matter. We can take judicial notice of
the fact that nominations to office sent to the Senate are
usually referred to the appropriate committee for investigation and report. In this case, the nomination would
have been sent to the Military Committee which considers each appointment and is, of course, charged with
the duty of inquiring into the existence of a vacancy to
which an appointment can be made,, as well as into its
wisdom and propriety. Communication between the Department and the Committee dealing with such appointments is easy and frequent. We must presume, therefore, in the absence of any showing to the contrary, that
the Senate was advised of the facts in respect to the
nomination of Lieut. Colonel Smith and that it intended
to supply the vacancy occasioned by the dismissal of appellant. Otherwise we must conclude that the Senate
Committee was recommending, and the Senate was deliberately voting, confirmation of a nomination to a place
for which there was no provision by law. We must assume that the confirming authorities knew the legal coinplement of Colonels in the Quartermaster Corps and how
many they had already confirmed for that office. They
must, therefore, have made inquiry and been assured as
to the vacancy which would make Colodel Smith's nomination and rank from February 14, 1918, proper.
It is urged that if the dismissal of appellant was rendered void ab initio,as contended, the effect was to restore

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO. 547
541.

Syllabus.

him to office, and he was entitled to pay although the
lawful complement of officers had been exceeded. To sustain this view, Quackenbush v. United States, 177 U. S.
20, is cited. It fails entirely to do so. On the contrary,
it shows that in order to authorize pay for an officer
whose place has been filled by nomination and confirmation of the Senate, there must be special legislative authority.
This is conclusive and renders it unnecessary to consider whether appellant lost his right to apply for a court
martial under § 1230 by waiting five months, a question
not free from doubt, considering the exigencies and need
for dispatch in time of war. See Norris v. United States,
ante, 77, and Nicholas v. United States, ante,71.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

COMMISSIONERS OF ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 2 OF LAFAYETTE COUNTY, ARKANSAS, v. ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH1 CIRCUIT.
No. 141.

Argued January 26, 27, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. A petition for removal to a federal court of a controversy over an
assessment on particular lands, involved with others in a general
proceeding for assessing all the lands within a road improvement
district, was in time, under Jud. Code, § 29, when filed on the day
before the day advertised for the hearing in the state court and on
which the landowner was required by the state law to file his
written objections. P. 551.
2. Under the law of Arkansas, the County Court approves a proposed
road improvement district, which then becomes a corporation
capable of suing and being sued; appoints, but cannot remove, the

