ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO. 547
541.

Syllabus.

him to office, and he was entitled to pay although the
lawful complement of officers had been exceeded. To sustain this view, Quackenbush v. United States, 177 U. S.
20, is cited. It fails entirely to do so. On the contrary,
it shows that in order to authorize pay for an officer
whose place has been filled by nomination and confirmation of the Senate, there must be special legislative authority.
This is conclusive and renders it unnecessary to consider whether appellant lost his right to apply for a court
martial under § 1230 by waiting five months, a question
not free from doubt, considering the exigencies and need
for dispatch in time of war. See Norris v. United States,
ante, 77, and Nicholas v. United States, ante,71.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

COMMISSIONERS OF ROAD IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 2 OF LAFAYETTE COUNTY, ARKANSAS, v. ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH1 CIRCUIT.
No. 141.

Argued January 26, 27, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. A petition for removal to a federal court of a controversy over an
assessment on particular lands, involved with others in a general
proceeding for assessing all the lands within a road improvement
district, was in time, under Jud. Code, § 29, when filed on the day
before the day advertised for the hearing in the state court and on
which the landowner was required by the state law to file his
written objections. P. 551.
2. Under the law of Arkansas, the County Court approves a proposed
road improvement district, which then becomes a corporation
capable of suing and being sued; appoints, but cannot remove, the

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

governing commissioners; passes upon their plan of improvement
and estimate of cost; appoints assessbrs who assess the benefits and
damages to the several parcels of land included; hears and determines the justice of particular assessments upon written objections
filed by landowners affected, pursuant to published notice; equalizes, lowers and raises assessments; and levies a general assessment
upon all the land to be collected against the properties in proportion to benefits thus adjudged by proceedings in a court of chancery. Its findings and order are declared to have the effect of a
judgment against the property; and appeals from particular assess-ments of benefits and damages may be taken by either the landowner or the commissioners to a court of general jurisdiction for
trial de novo. Held: That, while the proceedings in the County
Court are in the main legislative and administrative, a controversy
therein over the benefits and damages to an owner's land is a suit
at law within the removal act because, (a) its determination is
judicial, like a valuation of property in condemnation, p. 553; (b)
the issue is between adversary parties, the road district and the landowner, framed on pleadings, consisting of the assessment book
and the owner's objections, to be heard on evidence, and is separable
from like issues respecting other landowners, pp. 556, 559; and
(c) the County Court, in disposing of such issues, renders what is in
name, form, and effect a judgment; and functions as a judicial
tribunal under the Arkansas constitution. P. 556.
3. A decision of the state court on the nature f a proceeding under
the state statutes is not conclusive on the question of removability.
P. 558.
4. Section 28, Jud. Code, limiting removal to cases within the original
jurisdiction of the District Court under § 24, does not deprive a
defendant of the right merely because the form of the case in the
state court would be awkward in the federal court or require reframing of the complaint and different procedure. P. 561.
5. Action of the District Court in withdrawing a case from the jury
and making findings of fact in the absence of a stipulation under
Rev. Stats. §§ 649, 700, but without objection or exception by the
parties, is not reviewable by writ of error. P. 562.
265 Fed. 524, affirmed.
Certiorari to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming a judgment of the District Court for the respondent railway company in a case involving a road improvement assessment removed from a state court.

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO. 549
547.

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. Henry Moore, Jr., for petitioner.
This proceeding is not a suit within the meaning of the
federal removal acts. The County Court, in passing upon
the benefits received from the building of the road, was
acting in an administrative and not a judicial capacity,
occupying the position and having the -same authority as
that of the Board of Supervisors under the constitution of
Arkansas of 1868. Since the decision of this cause by the
District Court, the Supreme Court of Arkansas has
definitely so decided. Home v. Baker, 140 Ark. 172. See
also In re City of Chicago, 64 Fed. 897; State v. Barker,
116 Ia. 96. Distinguishing: DrainageDistrictv. Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. PaulRy. Co., 198 Fed. 253; In re Mississippi Power Co., 241 Fed. 194; and Smith v. Douglas
County, 254 Fed. 246.
Since the County Court, as a court under the constitution, has no authority over local assessment or over taxes,
save county taxes, the legislature, under the state constitution, could not give the court jurisdiction in a judicial
capacity to determine the amount of benefits received by
lands within the road district. Cribbs'v.Benedict, 64 Ark.
562.
The question at issue has been finally and definitely settled by UpshurCounty v. Rich, 135 U. S. 467.
Unless the assessors for the road district could have
originally filed its report in the United States District
Court and asked said court to raise or lower the various
assessments, and exercise the authority given by statute to
the County Court in its administrative capacity, then this
cause could not be properly transferred, since the jurisdiction of the United States courts on removal is limited to
such suits as might have been brought originally in said
courts. Cochran v. Montgomery County, 199 U. S. 260;
In re Winn, 213 U. S. 458; Wall v. Franz, 100 Fed.. 681.
Distinguishing Madisonville Traction Co. v. St. Bernard
Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

A state constitution may delegate to its courts either
judicial powers alone or judicial, administrative and legislative powers, and although cases may be transferred from
state to federal courts where judi~ial power is brought into
question, such transfer may not be had where the powers
are either legislative or administrative. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 226.
If there exists the right to transfer each assessment of
benefits amounting to more than $3,000 where the landowner is a nonresident then the wheels of justice may well
be clogged with such administrative matters.
The courts of the United States follow the decisions of
the courts of last resort in the several States in the matter
of the construction of the state constitutions and statutes.
The construction here is settled by Missouri PacificR. R.
Co. v. Izard County Improvement District, 143 Ark. 261,
267, and Monette Road Improvement District v. Dudley,
222 S. W. 59.
Mr. J. R. Turney, with whom Mr. Daniel Upthegrove
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHmF JusTicE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in this case is whether a proceeding in a
state county court to assess benefits and damages growing out of a road improvement was properly removed to
the federal District Court.
The assessors appointed by the County Court of Lafayette County, Arkansas, for Road Improvement District No. .2, imposed an assessment on lands within the
district, belonging to the St. Louis Southwestern Railway, a corporation of Missouri, of $49,706, for benefits
from .the projected improvement. The book of assessments for the District was filed by the District Commissioners in the office of the County Clerk and the day for

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO.
547.

551

Opinion of the Court.

hearing objections by the land owners before the county
court was duly advertised. On the day before the hearing, the Railway Company filed a petition for removal
to the District Court for the Western District of Arkansas
with the necessary bond. That court denied a motion
to remand, tried the controversy between the Commissioners of the Road District and the Railway' Company,
reduced the assessment to $10,485.48, entered judgment
therefor and certified the same to the county court. On
error, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment,
and the case is here on certiorari.
Under § 28 of the Judicial CQde, a suit at common law
or in equity between citizens of different States, involving
more than $3,000, may be removed by the nonresident
party to the proper federal district court. Under § 29
the petition for removal must be filed on or before the
day when defendant is required to answer. The petition
herein was filed the day before the hearing as advertised,
upon which day the land owner is required by state law
to fie his written objections. Thus, the requisites of the
removal statute were fulfilled if the proceeding was a suit
at common law in a state court.
Road District Improvements are provided for in c. 81,
Title VII, Crawford and Moses, Statutes of Arkansas. A
district is formed upon a petition of a majority of the
land owners by the County Court's approval of the district
and the projected improvement. C. & M., § 5399. The
district then becomes a corporation, with a seal and capable of contracting and suing and being sued. C. & M.,
§ 5402 and § 5404. The court appoints three commissioners, who are the governing body of the corporation.
C. & M., § 5405 and § 5407. After appointment, they can
not be removed by the County Court, but are independent. Taylor v. Wallace, 143 Ark. 67. They submit to the
County Court a plan for the improvement and estimate
its cost. C. & M., §§ 5409-5419. The County Court

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

then appoints three assessors whose duty it is to assess the
enhanced value which the improvement will give to the
various lots of real estate (C. & M., §§ 5419, 5421) as
well as the damages, if any, "by reason of right-of-way
taken, or other damage sustained." C. & M., §§ 5419,
5421, 5422. The damages "may be paid out of the funds
of the district, or by a reduction in the assessment of benefits in proportion to the amount of damages sustained."
C. & M., § 5422. The assessments of benefits and damages are noted by the assessors in a permanent book. C.
& M., § 5421. The subsequent proceedings as to hearing
and judgment are set forth in C. & M., §§ 5423 and 5424,
given below in the margin 1
Appeals from the judgment of the County Court as to
assessments of benefits and damages may be taken to
the Circuit Court, the court of general jurisdiction, either
by the owner or the Commissioners of the District "by
filing an affidavit for appeal and stating therein the
special matter appealed from, but such appeal shall affect
only the particular tract of land . . . concerning

-which said appeal is taken." C. & M., §§ 5425, 5427.
Wapponocca Outing Club v. Road Improvement District,
135 Ark. 196. The Circuit Court tries all such appeals
1C. & M. § 5423. Equalization of assessments. As soon as the
assessors have completed the work of assessment for the district, they
shall certify to same and deliver it to the board of commissioners.
The commissioners shall immediately file same in the office of the
county clerk, and the county clerk of said county shall give public
notice by two consecutive insertions in a publication having a general
circulation in said county. Said notice shall give a description of all
lands embraced in said district in the largest subdivisions practicable
and shall state said assessment of benefits and damages has been
filed in said office and shall call upon any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by reason of any assessment to appear before the
county court on some date to be fixed by the court not less than
five days after the last insertion therein, for the purpose of having
any errors adjusted, or any wrogful or grievous assessment corrected,

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO.
547.

553

Opinion of the Court.

de novo as if originally brought in that court, C. & M.,
§ 2236; and the judgment is in the same form as in the
inferior court. Wilson v. Hinton, 63 Ark. 145.
Just as soon as the assessment book is filed in the office
of the county clerk who is ex officio clerk of the County
Court, and the Commissioners submit the estimate of
cost of the improvement, the County Court, pending its
hearing of objections to assessments, levies an assessment
against all the real property in the district, adding ten
per cent. to the estimated cost for contingencies, to be collected against the properties in proportion to the benefits
then to be adjudged. C. & M., § 5432. The assessments
thus determined and confirmed become liens on the property affected, and unless paid, are collected through equitable proceedings brought by the Commissioners of the
Road District to sell in the Chancery Court. C. & M.,
§ 5437.
This review shows that the proceedings for the making
of this road improvement are in the main legislative and
administrative. There is, however, one step in them that
fulfills the definition of a judicial inquiry if made by a
court. That is the determination of the issue between
and all grievances or objections to said assessment shall be presented
to said court in writing. Any person who is damaged by reason of
said improvement may appear before said court at the same time,
for the purpose of having the assessment of damages 'adjusted.
The county court shall hear and determine the justness of any assessment of benefits or damages, and is hereby authorized to equalize,
lower or raise any assessment upon a proper showing to the court.
C. & M. § 5424. Judgment of county court. At the hearing provided for in the preceding section and after the county court shall
have considered the assessment of benefits, it shall enter its findings
thereon, either confirming the assessment of benefits against said
property, increasing or diminishing same, and the order made by the
county court shall have all the force and effect of a judgment against
all real property in said district, and it shall be deemed final, conclusive, binding and incontestable except by direct attack on appeal.

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

the Road District on the one part and the land owners on
the other, as to the respective benefits which the inprovement confers on their lands, and the damages they
each suffer from rights of way taken and other injury.
The distinction between a proceeding which is the
exercise of legislative power and of administrative character and a judicial suit is not always clear. An administrative proceeding transferred to a court usually becomes
judicial, although not necessarily so. In Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 225, 226, this court
said,
"We shall assume that when, as here, a state constitution sees fit to unite legislative and judicial powers in a
single hand, there is nothing to hinder so far as the Constitution of the United States is concerned. . . . A
judicial inquiry investigates, declares and enforces liabilities as they stand on present or past facts and under
laws supposed already to exist. That is its purpose and
end. Legislation on the other hand looks to the future
and changes existing conditions by making a new rule to
be applied thereafter."
The inquiry before the County Court is a proceeding to
declare and enforce a liability of lands and their owners
as it stands on present and past facts under a law and
rules already made by the legislature and the administrative officers.
The determination of benefits in such cases is quite like
the valuation of property under condemnation proceedings. "The true inquiry is, what will be the effect of the
proposed improvement upon the market value of the
real property, including the buildings thereon. The board
may consider what the property is then fairly Worth in
the market, and what will be the value when the improvement is made." Kirst v. Street Improvement District,
86 Ark. 1; Rogers v. Highway Improvement District, 139
Ark. 322. Assessments for benefits and damages are dif-

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO.
547.

555

Opinion of the Court.

ferent in their essential characteristics from those for general taxation. Paving District v. Sisters of Mercy, 86
Ark. 109. Though due process of law does not necessarily
require judicial machinery to fix values in condemnation,
still because of the direct invasion of private right, courts
will treat it as a common-law suit whenever it is brought
before a court and it becomes removable as such to the
federal court. Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 403;
Searl v. School District No. 2, 124 U. S. 197; Madisonville Traction Co. v. St. Bernard Mining Co., 196 U. S.
239. Speaking of the power of eminent domain, Mr. Justice Field, in Boom Co. v. Patterson,supra, said:
"But notwithstanding the right is one that appertains
to sovereignty, when the sovereign power attaches conditions to its exercise, the inquiry whether the conditions
have been observed is a proper matter, for judicial cognizance. If that inquiry take the form of a proceeding before the courts between parties,--the owners of the land
on the one side, and the company seeking the appropriation on the other,--there is a controversy which is subject to the ordinary incidents of a civil suit, and its determination derogates in no respect from the sovereignty of
the State."
This principle has been extended by this court to benefits set off against damages in Pacific Railroad Removal
Cases, 115 U. S. 1, 18. In that case the proceeding was
for widening a street running through the grounds of a
railway company. Under the statute, the hearing was first
before the Mayor and a jury who were to determine the
actual damage done to each person in consequence of the
taking of his property, without reference to the proposed
improvement, and, second, to determine the actual benefits conferred upon the City and upon such private property. This court held that the proceeding before the
Mayor and common council was only a preliminary inquisition, but that the distinct and separable issues in the

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

state circuit court between the City and the private owner
as to the value of his property taken for the street, and
the amount of benefit his remaining property received
from the improvements, constituted "a suit" which
might be removed to the federal court, even though their
determination might delay the state court proceedings.
The case rules the one before us so far as the character of
the controversy is concerned. We have the same issues
here and they are just as separable from benefits and
damages of the other owners.
The County Court in hearing this controversy was a
judicial tribunal from the time the Commissioners filed
the book of assessments in its clerk's office and asked its
confirmation. The constitution of 1874 of Arkansas, now
in force, declares, in § 1, Article VII. entitled the Judicial
Department, that,
"The judicial power of the State shall be vested in one
Supreme Court; in Circuit Courts; in County and Probate
Courts; and in Justices of the Peace."
Section 28 of the same article provides that,
"The county courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction in all matters relating to county taxes, roads,
bridges, ferries, paupers, bastardy, vagrants, the apprenticeship of minors, the disbursement of money for county
purposes, and in every other case that may be necessary to
the internal improvement and local concerns of the respective counties. The county court shall be held by
one Judge, except in cases otherwise herein provided."
The exclusive jurisdiction of the County Court conferred by § 28, concerns matters which are primarily of an
administrative character but which often involve judicial
inquiry and action inter partes. The County Court may
act therein as an administrative body or as a court. The
Supreme Court of Arkansas has held the County Court
to be a court and capable of rendering judgment in a

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO. 557
547.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding whose judicial character is much more questionable than here. In Nevada County v. Hicks, 50 Ark.
416, it decided, that every allowance of a claim by the
County Court against the county was a judicial order. See
Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U. S.529, 532; Delaware
County v. Diebold Safe Co., 133 U. S.473.
C. & M. § 5424, quoted above in the margin, directs that
after the hearing, the County Court shall make its findings,
either confirming the assessments of benefits and damages,
increasing or diminishing them, and that the order made
by the County Court shall have "all the force and effect
of a judgment against all real property in said district,
and it shall be deemed final, conclusive, binding and incontestable except by direct attack on appeal." The form
of the order of the County Court in this case made after
removal, was "It is further considered, ordered and adjudged by the court that the assessment of benefits made
against the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company
.

.

. by the assessors for said district be approved

and confirmed by the court." Of course, the statutory
designation of the action of a body as a judgment, or the
phrasing of its finding and conclusion in the usual formula of a judicial order, is not conclusive of the character
in which it is acting. When we find, however, that the
proceeding before it has all the elements of a judicial controversy (Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S.10, 20), to wit, adversary parties and an issue .in which the claim of one of
the parties against the other capable of pecuniary estimation, is stated and answered in some form of pleading,
and is to be determined, we must conclude that this constitutional court is functioning as such.
But it is said that the State Supreme Court has held
otherwise and that such a decision is binding on us. The
question of removal under the federal statute is one for
the consideration of the federal court. It is not concluded

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

by the view of a state court as to what is a suit within
the statute. Upshur County v. Rich, 135 U. S. 467, 477;
Mason City & Ft. Dodge R. R. Co. v. Boynton, 204 U. S.
570; Madisonville Traction Co. v. St. BernardMining Co.,
196 U. S. 239. While the decision of the state court as
to the nature of a proceeding under state statutes sought
to be removed is, of course, very persuasive, it is not controlling because involved in 'the application of a federal
statute and the exercise of a federal constitutional right.
The issue as to removal is akin to the question, which
sometimes arises in enforcing the inhibition against state
laws impairing the obligation of a contract, whether there
is a contract under state law. This court decides that for
itself. University v. People, 99 U. S. 309; Jefferson
Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; Bridge Proprietors
v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116; Delmas v. Insurance Co.,
14 Wall. 661.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas relied
on is Missouri PacificR. R. Co. v. Izard County Improvement District No. 1, 143 Ark. 261, in which it was held
that a proceeding like the one before us in the County
Court could not be removed to the federal court because
"the duties which this statute devolves upon the county
court, as already stated, are administrative and not judicial, although the line of demarcation is very close."
The court further said:
"It will be observed that the power conferred by our
statute upon the county court is not to determine whether
there should be any assessment, but to equalize and adjust the assessment that has been made by the commissioners. There is nothing in the nature of an adversary
proceeding, inter partes, in the assessment made by the
commissioners and equalized and adjusted by the county
court under the authority of the statute."
Our examination of the question leads us to a different
conclusion. The book of assessments made by the as-

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO. 559
547.

Opinion of the Court.

sessors, as already noted, is presented by the Commissioners of the District as an independent body, representing
a fully equipped municipal corporation, capable of contracting and of suing and being sued, to the County Court.
They are plaintiffs an& petitioners, asking the court to
give them a judgment confirming the assessments. The
court's record in this case shows them present in person
and by counsel praying confirmation.
The statute does not define how the hearing before the
county court is to be conducted except that the objections
of the land owners are to be in writing, as the book of
assessment is. These two documents make the pleadings.
It is to be inferred in the absence of any restriction that
oral evidence is to be heard on the issues raised by the
objections and that the Commissioners in person or by
attorney may take part in the hearing. Indeed it was admitted by counsel at the hearing that this is the practice.
The proceeding is said to be only equalization but we have
already seen that each lot is to be separately considered
as to benefits and damages, on appeal. If so, why not
on removal? We conclude that the proceeding is adversary and inter partes.
The state court really decides that the issue as to the
correctness of assessments of benefits and damages is always legislative and administrative. It relies chiefly on
two federal authorities. Upshur County v. Rich, 135 U.
S. 467, and In re City of Chicago, 64 Fed. 897. In the
former, the county assessors of a county in West Virginia
had valued for general taxation a large tract of wild land
at a figure its owners deemed excessive. They filed a petition in the County Court asking a reduction and immediately filed another petition for removal of the proceeding
to the federal court on the ground of diverse citizenship.
This court held on appeal from the Circuit Court, which
had denied a motion to remand, that the removal could
not be sustained. It said that such assessment of a

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

general tax was an administrative act, that the County
Court in considering the appeal from the assessors was
not a court, and that the proceeding was not adversary or
a suit "though approaching very near to the line of demarcation" (p. 472). The County Court in West Virginia had no judicial jurisdiction under the constitution
of the State except that of probate. It had had in the
past other judicial jurisdiction but an amendment of the
constitution had taken this away and it was empowered
only to exercise duties "not of a judicial nature."
Mr. Justice Bradley, who spoke for the court in *the
Pacific RailroadRemoval Cases, supra, also delivered the
opinion in the Upshur County Case, and summed up the
conclusion as follows:
"The principle to be deduced -from these cases is, that
a proceeding, not in a court of justice, but carried on by
executive officers in the exercise of their proper functions,
as in the valuation of property for the just distribution of
taxes or assessments, is purely administrative in its character, and cannot, in any just sense, be called a suit; and
that an appeal in such a case, to a board of assessors or
commissioners having no judicial powers, and only authorized to determine questions of quantity, proportion
and value, is not a suit; but that such an appeal may become a suit, if made to a court or tribunal having power
to determine questions of law and fact, either with or
without a jury, and there are parties litigant to contest
the case on the one side and the other."
The manifest distinctions between the Upshur County
Case and this are, first, that the question here is not one of
general taxation, the difference between which and assessments for benefits and damages we have already
pointed out; second, that the County Court of Arkansas,
differing from the West Virginia County Court, is a court
and by the constitution of the State may exercise judicial

ROAD DISTRICT v. ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. CO. 561
547.

Opinion of the Court.

functions in such subjects matter; and, third, that the
proceeding is inter partes.
The other federa case upon which the State Supreme
Court relies, In re City of Chicago, supra, was a decision
of the Circuit Court in a sewer assessment case involving
the fixing of benefits which were to be equalized over a
district which the assessors found to be fair. The court
held it could. not be removed from the county court, first,
because such an assessment was a mere administrative
act, an exercise of the taxing power, and, second, because
the benefits could only be fixed with reference to the
benefits to all other lots, and tht whole case must be removed, if removed at all. The court with difficulty distinguished the Pacific Railroad Removal Cases, on the
ground that that was a separate investigation as to each
lot and that it was mingled with the fixing of damages.
These are features which distinguish this proceeding also.
Moreover, the case has been criticized and its authority
shaken. In re Stutsman County, 88 Fed. 337, 341; In re
Jarnecke Ditch, 69 Fed. 161; DrainageDistrict No. 19 v.
Chicago,Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 198 Fed. 253, 260.
The next objection is that the Road District Commissioners could not file their assessment book in the federal
court, assuming the necessary diverse citizenship, against
any lot or lot owner, and so that the inquiry cannot be
removed, because, under § 28 of the Judicial Code, removal is limited to cases within the original jurisdiction
of the District Court under § 24. This limitation is not
intended to exclude from the right of removal defendants
in cases in the state court which because of their peculiar
form would be awkward as an original suit in a federal
court, or would require therein a refraining of the complaint and different procedure. Sheffield Furnace Co. v.
Witherow, 149 U. S. 574,579; Fleitasv. Richardson,No. 1,
147 U. S. 538, 544. The limitation is that only those

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

2571U. S.

proceedings can be removed which have the same essentials as original suits permissible in District Courts, that
is that they can be readily assimilated to suits at common
law or equity, and that there must be diverse citizenship
of the parties and the requisite pecuniary amount involved. In re Stutsman County, 88 Fed. 337; Madisonville Traction Co. v. St. Bernard Mining Co., 196 U. S.
239, 246; Searl v. School District No. 2, 127 U. S. 197;
Colorado Midland Ry. Co. v. Jones, 29 Fed. 193.
It is finally contended that the judgment of the District
Court should be reversed because it withdrew the case
from the jury and then proceeded to make findings. No
objection was taken by either'party to this course and no
exception was taken. Section 649, Rev. Stats., provides
that a civil case in the District Court may be tried without the intervention of a jury on a written stipulation
of the parties or their attorneys filed with the clerk, in
which case the finding of the court on the facts, either
general or special, shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury, and by § 700, Rev. Stats., bills of exceptions may bring such findings before the Circuit Court of
Appeals for review on the evidence. But if there be no
written stipulation of waiver of a jury, then no questions
can arise on writ of error except those which arise on the
process, pleadings or judgment. Bond v. Dustin, 112
U. S. 604; Ladd & Tilton Bank v. Hicks Co., 218 Fed.
310; Ford v. United States, 260 Fed. 657. The Circuit
Court of Appeals, therefore, rightly held that no error
could be predicated on the action of the District Judge in
withdrawing the case from the jury and making findings
without objection or exception by the parties.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

