176

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

action to its substance." And further, "It seems incredible that Congress intended to tax as income a business transaction which admittedly produced no gain, no
profit, and hence no income. If any income had accrued
to the plaintiff by reason of the sale and exchange made it
would doubtless be taxable."
There were perfectly good reasons for the reorganization and the good faith of the parties is not questioned. I
assume that the statute was not intended to put an embargo upon legitimate reorganizations when ;deemed essential for carrying on important enterprises. Eisner v.
Macomber was rightly decided and the principle which I
think it announced seems in conflict with the decision just
announced.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER concurs in this dissent.

ROCKEFELLER v. UNITED STATES.
NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY ET AL., EXECUTORS OF HARKNESS, v. EDWARDS, COLLECTOR
OF UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE FOR
THE SECOND DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 535, 536. Argued October 11, 12, 1921.--Decided November
21, 1921.
1. Where the stockholders of a corporation, which is engaged in producing, buying and selling crude petroleum and in transporting
it through its pipe lines, form a new corporation to which the
pipe line property is conveyed by the old corporation and in
consideration therefor and as part of the transaction all the capital
stock of the new corporation, of par value equal to the valuation of
the property so conveyed, is distributed among such stockholders
pro rata,either by being issued to them directly, or by being first

ROCKEFELLER v. UNITED STATES.
176.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

issued to the old corporation and then so distributed, and the old
company possesses such a surplus that the transaction leaves its
capital unimpaired and requires no reduction of its outstanding
issues, the shares so received by the stockholders are a dividend
within the meaning of the Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913, o. 16,
38 Stat. 166, and income within the meaning of the Sixteenth
Amendment. P. 182. United States v. Pheilis, ante, 156.
2. Such a distribution of shares, whatever its effect upon the aggregate interests of the stockholders, constitutes, in the case of each
individual, a gain in the form of actual, exchangeable assets transferred to him from the old company for his separate use, in partial
realization of his former indivisible and contingent interests in the
corporate surplus--in substance and effect a dividend of profits
by the corporation, and individual income of the shareholder.
P. 183.
274 Fed. 952, affirmed.

ERRoR to judgments of the District Court sustaining
income tax assessments under the Income Tax Law of
October 3, 1913, and the Sixteenth Amendment. In No.
535, the action was by the United States, to collect the
tax, against the plaintiff in error Rockefeller. In No.
536, the plaintiffs in error, having paid the tax under
protest, sued the collector to recover the amount with
interest.
Mr. George Wetwood Murray,with whom Mr. Harrison
Tweed was on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
The fact is that the transaction was purely a capital
transaction, the substance of which was merely an alteration in the form of the stockholder's capital interest-an
exchange of one form of capital interest for anotherfrom which no income was derived.
The rules and principles established by this court and
applied by it in the Towne and Macomber Cases prohibit
a resort to metaphysics to establish the receipt of income
in connection with a transaction which from the point of
view of the corporation was a necessary separation of its

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

257 U.S.

two lines of business, and from the point of view of the
stockholder was a mere change in the form of his capital
investment.
Regard must be had to the substance and entirety of
the transaction.
The meaning to be, attached to the word "income" is
not that ascribed to it by dictionarians or economists, but
is,on the contrary, the meaning in which it is commonly
used and understood.
There are three essential elements of income: (a) gain;
(b) separated from the capital, and (c) realized by the recipient.
In the case of a stockholder, income is not realized unless and until something has been freed from corporate
control and business risks and transferred to the absolute
ownership of the stockholder.
The Towne Case illustrates the application of the foregoing rules and principles to facts very similar to the facts
in the case at bar and is conclusive that the stock of the
pipe line companies did not constitute income within the
meaning of the Income Tax Law of 1913.
The opinion of the court in the Macomber Case is
simply a more thorough analysis of the facts and principles which controlled the decision in the Towne Case,
and an extension of that decision to cover the construction
of the Sixteenth Amendment.
The Macomber Case is conclusive that the stock of the
pipe line companies did not constitute income within the
meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment.
Any dissent in the Macomber Case was based upon considerations which have no application in the case at bar.
The stock of the pipe line companies did not become a
part of the assets of the oil companies.
There is a fundamental distinction lietween the distribution to stockholders of liquid treasury assets on the one
hand, and, on the other hand,- the proceeds of the disposi-

ROCKEFELLER v. UNITED STATES.
176.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

tion of business plant constituting an integral part of the
enterprise.
No part of the cause of action of plaintiffs in error in
No. 536 is barred by the provisions of §§ 3226 and 3227,
Rev. Stats.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Carl A.
Mapes, Mr. Newton K. Fox and Mr. Andrew I. Aldridge
were on the brief, for defendants in error.
If there be any difference in principle between the facts
of these two cases and those in the Phellis Case, ante 156,
the facts now under consideration by the court are even
stronger for the Government than in the Phellis Case. In
that case the Du Pont Powder Company sold all its assets
to the new corporation; and, had the former then proceeded to liquidate its affairs and dissolve as a corporation, a more serious question would have arisen, whether
upon final liquidation that portion of the assets which
were distributed-which undoubtedly represented accumulated earnings from operations--would or would not
be taxable.
In the two present cases each oil company only sold a
part of its assets (the part being far less than its surplus),
and then vendor and vendee corporations continued
actively in their respective businesses, the one as a producer, and the other as a transporter, of oil.
The argument that was made in the Phellis Case, that
this court must regard the New Jersey and Delaware corporations as substantially one, corporation qn the theory
of practical identity of function and purpose, can not be
applied to the two instant cases, for the very purpose of
the transactions in these cases was to destroy any possible
identity by dividing between the two corporations two
separate and distinct functions in the oil industry.
Thenceforth, the oil companies had no further concern
with transportation and the pipe line companies had no
further connection with production.

180

OCTOBER [TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

MR. JUSTIOE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These two cases were argued together, turn upon like
facts, and may be disposed of in a single opinion. They
involve the legality of certain income taxes assessed
against the plaintiff in error in the one case, and against
the testator of plaintiffs in error in the other, under the Income Tax provisions of the Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16,
38 Stat. 114, 166-167, by reason of certain distributions
of corporate stocks received by the respective taxpayers
under the following circumstances. In and prior to the
year 1914, the Prairie Oil & Gas Company, a corporation
of the State of Kansas, was engaged in producing, purchasing and selling crude petroleum, and transporting it
through pipe lines owned by the company in the States of
Kansas and Oklahoma, and elsewhere. At the same time
the Ohio Oil Company, a corporation of the State of Ohio,
was engaged in producing and manufacturing petroleum
and mineral oil and transporting the same through pipe
lines owned by it in the States of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois
and Pennsylvania. In the month of June, 1914, it was
judicially determined by this court (The Pipe Line Cases,
234 U. S. 548), that with respect, to the transportation
business these companies were common carriers in interstate commerce, subject to the Act to Regulate Commerce
as amended by Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584,
and as such subject to the supervision of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. By Act of September 26, 1914,
c. 311, 38 Stat. 717, the remainder of their business became subject to the supervision of the Federal Trade
Commission. In order to avoid a probable conflict of
federal authority in case the combined business of production and transportation should continue to be carried
on as theretofore, it was in each case, upon advice of
counsel, determined that the pipe line property should be
owned and operated by a separate corporation. In the

ROCKEFELLER v. UNITED STATES.
176.

Opinion of the Court.

case of the Ohio company an added reason for segregation
lay in the fact that by a section of the Ohio General Code
its entire gross receipts, including those derived from business other than transportation, were subject to an annual
assessment of 4% chargeable against the gross receipts of
companies engaged in the transportation business. For
these reasons, the stockholders of the Prairie Oil & Gas
Company caused a corporation to be organized under the
laws of the State of Kansas, by the name of the Prairie
Pipe Line Company, to which all the pipe line property
of the Prairie Oil & Gas Company was transferred in
consideration of the issue and delivery of the entire capital
stock of the new company, to be distributed pro rata to
the stockholders of the Prairie Oil & Gas Company.
And similarly, the stockholders of the Ohio Oil Company
caused a corporation to be formed under the laws of that
State, by the name of the Illinois Pipe Line Company,
to which all the pipe line property of the Ohio Oil Company was transferred in consideration of the issue to it of
the entire capital stock of the new company, which was to
be distributed at once by the old company to its stockholders pro rata. These arrangements were carried out in
like manner in both cases, except that in the case of the
Kansas companies the stock of the pipe line company was
issued directly to the stockholders of the oil company,
whereas in the case of the Ohio companies the pipe line
company issued its stock to the oil company, but in the
same resolution by which the contract was made, an immediate distribution of the new stock among, the oil
company's stockholders was provided for, and in fact it
was carried out. The aggregate valuation of the Prairie
pipe lines was $27,000,000, that of the Ohio pipe lines
$20,000,000, and the total, capitalization of the respective
pipe line companies equaled these amounts.
In each case, the oil company had a surplus in excess of
the stated value of its pipe lines and of the par value of

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

the total stock of the corresponding pipe line company;
so that the transfer of the pipe lines and the distribution
of the stock received for them left the capital of the
respective oil companies unimpaired and required no reduction in their outstanding issues.
Messrs. Rockefeller and Harkness respectively were
holders of large amounts of the stock of both the Prairie
and the Ohio oil companies and in the distributions each
received an amount of stock in each of the pipe line companies proportionate to his holdings in the oil companies.
This occurred in the year 1915. Neither Mr. Rockefeller
nor Mr. Harkness nor the latter's executors sold any of
the stock in the pipe line companies.
Income tax assessments for the year 1915 were imposed
upon Messrs. Rockefeller and Harkness, based upon the
value of the stocks thus received as dividends; and these
assessments are in question in the present suits,'both of
which were brought in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York: one by the
United States against Mr. Rockefeller, the other by the
executors of Mr. Harkness against the Collector. In
each case the facts were specially pleaded so as to present the question whether the distribution of the stocks
of the pipe line companies among the stockholders of the
oil companies constituted, under the circumstances, dividends within the meaning of the Act of 1913, and income
within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment. In
each case a final judgment was rendered sustaining the
assessment, and the judgments are brought here by direct
writs of error under § 238, Judicial Code, because of the
constitutional question.
Under the facts as recited we deem it to be too plain for
dispute that in both cases the new pipe line company
shares were in substance and effect distributed by the oil
company to its stockholders; as much so in the case of
the Kansas company where the new stock went directly

ROCKEFELLER v. UNITED STATES.
176.

Opinion of the Court.

from the pipe line company to the stockholders of the oil
company, as in the case of the Ohio company where the
new stock went from the pipe line company to the oil
company and by it was transferred to its stockholders.
Looking to the substance of things the difference is unessential. In each case the consideration moved from the
oil company in its corporate capacity, the new company's
stock issued in exchange for it was distributed among the
oil company's stockholders in their individual capacity,
and was a substantial fruit of their ownership of stock
in the oil company, in effect a dividend out of the accumulated surplus.
The facts are in all essentials indistinguishable from
those presented in United States v. Phelis, decided this
day, ante, 156. In these cases as in that, regarding the
general effect of the entire transactions resulting from
the combined action of the mass of stockholders, there
was apparently little but a reorganization and financial
readjustment of the affairs of the companies concerned,
here a subdivision of companies, without immediate effect
upon the personnel of the stockholders, or much difference
in the aggregate corporate activities or properties. As in
the Phellis Case, the adoption of the new arrangement
did not of itself produce any increase of wealth to the
stockholders, since whatever was gained by each in the
value of his new pipe line stock was at the same moment
withdrawn through a corresponding diminution of the
value of his oil stock. Nevertheless the new stock represented assets of the oil companies standing in the place of
the pipe line properties that before had constituted portions of their surplus assets, and it was capable of division
among stockholders as the pipe line properties were not.
The distribution, whatever its effect upon the aggregate
interests of the mass of stociholders, constit~uted in the
case of each individual a gain in the form of actual exchangeable assets transferred to him from the oil com-

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

pany for his separate use in partial realization of his
former indivisible and contingent interest in the corporate surplus. It was in substance and effect, not merely
in form, a dividend of profits by the corporation, and
individual income to the stockholder.
The opinion just delivered in United States v. Phellis,
sufficiently indicates the grounds of our conclusion that
the judgment in each of the present cases must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLAiKE took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE VAx DEVANTER

and MR. JUSTICE Mc-

REYNOLDS dissent.

AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY
CENTRAL TRADES COUNCIL ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 2. Argued January 17, 1919; restored to docket for reargument
June 1, 1920; reargued October 5, 1920; restored to docket for
reargument June 6, 1921; reargued October 4, 5, 1921.-Decided
December 5, 1921.
1. A decree of injunction in a labor controversy was entered in the
District Court before the date of the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat.
738, but was pending on appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals
when the act was approved. Held, that the plaintiff had no
vested right in the decree, and that the act was to be regarded
in determining the appeal. P. 201.
2. The irreparable injury to property referred to in the first paragraph of § 20 of the Clayton Act, supra, includes injury to the
business of an employer. P. 202.
3. The second paragraph of § 20 of the Clayton Act does not apply
to a dispute between an employer and persons who are neither
ex-employees nor seeking employment. Duplex PrintingPress Co.
v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443. Held, in this case, that only those
defendants who left the plaintiff's employ when a strike was called

