260

OCTOBER TERM 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

same carrier or carriers. Neither the Transportation Act
1920, February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, nor any earlier
amendatory legislation has changed, in this respect, the
purpose or scope of ยง 3.
Reversed.
CURTIS, RECEIVER OF ATLANTIC NATIONAL
BANK OF PROVIDENCE, R. I. v. CONNLY
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPFALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 69. Argued November 16, 17, 1921.-Decided December 12,
1921.
1. The state statute of limitations applies to a suit in a federal court
by a receiver of a national bank against its former directors to recover for losses sustained by the bank through improper loans and
investments and dividends paid out of capital. P. 262.
2. Such a suit being based on the common-law right of the bank, the
statute will not be tolled upbn the ground of fraudulent concealment of the cause of action (Gen. Laws, R. I., 1909, c. 284, ยง 7)
where the bank was put on notice by the entries on its own books.

P. 262.
3. Where the misrepresentations relied on for suspending the statute
of limitations were the entering at their face value upon the
books, and in reports made to the Comptroller and published, of
loans and investments known by the defendant directors to be improper or worthless, held: (a) That the bank was chargeable with
notice of the parties to whom loans had been made and the specific
character of assets; (b) that the representations to be implied
from the reports could not be taken as continuing after they had
been superseded by later reports; (c) that the misrepresentations
of value imported by the valuations on the books were not a concealment of the cause of action after new directors, not in conspiracy with the defendants, came upon the board and knew the
facts, since their knowledge was imputable to the bank, even if they
also proved unfaithful. P. 264.
4. The running of a statute of limitations on a cause of action of a
bank against directors-will not be suspended by its fraudulent con-

CURTIS, RECEIVER, v. CONNLY.
260.

Opinion of the Court.

cealment beyond a period in which new directors, performing their
duty to learn the bank's affairs, would presumably have. discovered

it. P. 264.
5. The fiduciary relation between a bank and its directors ceased
when they left the board. P. 264.

264 Fed. 650, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court dismissing the bill,
as to the appellees, in a suit brought by the appellant receiver to charge them with losses suffered by the bank.

Mr. Edward F. McClennen, with whom Mr. George H.
Huddy, Jr., was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. William W. Moss and Mr. Arthur M. Allen, with
whom Mr. Percy W. Gardner,Mr. Edward A. Stockwell
and Mr. Claude R. Branch were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUsTICE HoLmEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill brought by a receiver of a national bank
to recover from former directors of the bank for losses
sustained by it because of dividends paid out of capital
and improper loans and investments made by the defendants. The bill states with particularity the dates at
which each defendant began and ceased to serve, and
thus discloses that six of those named left office more than
six years b'efore August 2, 1916, when this suit was begun.
On motion the bill was dismissed by the District Court as
against these six on the ground that the statute of limitations of the State of Rhode Island was a bar. 259 Fed.
961, sub nom. Curtis v. Metcalf. The decree was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 264 Fed. 650. The receiver appeals, contending that the bill states facts sufficient to suspend the running of the statute until within
six years from the beginning of the suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

There is no dispute that the statute of Rhode Island
governs the case. McClaine v. Rankin, 197 U. S. 154.
The only question argued is whether the bill brings the
defendants within the exception to the general rule in
Gen. Laws, 1909, c. 284, ยง 7: "If any person, liable to an
action by another, shall fraudulently, by actual misrepresentation, conceal from him the existence of the cause
of such action, said cause of action shall be deemed to
accrue against the person so liable therefor, at the time
when the person entitled to sue thereon shall first discover its existence." The misrepresentations charged are
having the books and financial statements of the bank so
kept and made as to show at their face value loans and
investments known to be improper or worthless and thus
to conceal the impairment of the capital of the bank.
These books were exhibited to the examiners and reports
thus falsely made were filed with the Comptroller of the
Currency and. published, and none of the facts was discovered by any other than the directors before 1913, and
many of them not until the latter part of 1915. The over
statement of assets is alleged to have grown from $50,000
in 1906 to $700,000 in 1913, when the bank was found to
be insolvent and was put into the hands of a receiver.
It is laid at $150,000 on January 12, 1909, when three of
the appellees ceased to be directors; and when the other
three left on January 11, 1910, at probably more than
$200,000. The bank was then still solvent. The appellant says that these facts bring the case within the
above ยง 7, and that no discovery of them appears until
after August 3, 1910, that is, until within six years of
this suit.
This suit is brought upon the common-law right of the
bank to recover for acts that diminished its assets. Therefore the question is whether the bank's claim is barred.
The bank of course must be charged with knowledge of

CURTIS, RECEIVER, v. CONNLY.
260.

263

Opinion of the Court.

what appeared upon its books. It owned them; its stockholders had a right to inspect them. Guthriev. Harkness,
199 U. S. 148. Hence it would seem, as suggested by the
District Judge, that so far as concerns investments of a
kind that national banks are not allowed to make, the
bank was chargeable with knowledge from the beginning
and can found no claim upon them now. The parties to
whom loans were made and the specific character of the
assets must also have been known at all times, so that
the only misrepresentations were those concerning the
credit of the debtors implied by entering the claims at
their face value in the books and reports. It is said that
these were continuing representations, and no doubt the
documents still read as they did when written. Whether
they can be regarded as looking to an indefinite future
reliance upon them or can be taken to have been relied
upon for more than a short time except as to the belief of
the directors at the moment is a different matter. The
reports at least were superseded by later reports each of
which imported a judgment as to then present values,
not as to past.
The question, therefore, is narrowed to the entries on
the books, and as to these, again as suggested by the District Judge, it is to be remembered that credits and the
value of business paper or securities are variable. Many
of those said to be overvalued were for short terms. Most
of the renewals are stated to have been new extensions of
credit-that is new judgments on present responsibility,
superseding the old. We agree with the Courts below that
the valuations on the books cannot be regarded as continuing in an effective sense. Three new directors came
upon the board before August 3, 1910. It is alleged unmistakably in the bill that all the directors were chargeable with notice and did in fact know that the dividends
were paid out of assets and not earned and that the im-

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

proper loans should be recalled. Even if otherwise the
statute of limitations would not have run, which we do
not imply, knowledge of the facts by the new directors
was knowledge by the bank, and none the less that according to the bill they in their turn were unfaithful.
It is not alleged that they conspired with the defendants
whose case we are considering. They came to the board
as the eyes of the bank. Anyone of them having notice
was bound to do what he could to avert or diminish the
loss. Indeed the bill seeks to charge one of them for not
having done his duty. Notice to an officer, in the line of
his duty, was notice to the bank. A single director like a
single stockholder could proceed in the courts. Joint
Stock Discount Co. v. Brown, L. R. 8 Eq. 381, 403.
The counsel for the plaintiff seemed to take the bill as
admitting less than we have said in the way of knowledge.
We are unable to read it otherwise than as we have indicated, but even if knowledge on the part of the new
directors were not expressly charged, it was their business
and duty in the year and seven months from the resignation of the first three to August 3, 1910, or the seven
months _after the resignation of the second three to the
same date, to get some notion of the credits and assets of
the bank. It does not appear that there would have been
any difficulty in ascertaining at least enough to lead to
further inquiry if they had. See Wood v. Carpenter,101
U. S. 135. The statute of limitations must not be applied
so narrowly that business men will be afraid to take
directorships, and however this bill be read in its details
it appears to us not to charge enough to deprive the appellees of the protection of the act. It is said that they
stood in a fiduciary relation to the bank. But they were
strangers to it when they left the board, more than six
years before this suit was brought. We see no reason why
the statute should not apply. See Emerson v. Gaither,

EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. v. HALLANAN. 265
260.

Syllabus.

103 Md. 564. Boyd v. Mutual Fire Association of Eau
Claire, 116 Wise. 155. Wallace v. Lincoln Savings Bank,
89 Tenn. 630.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRAwNEis took no part in the decision of
this case.

EUREKA PIPE LINE COMPANY v. HALLANAN,
STATE TAX COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 255. Argued November 9, 1921.--Decided December 12, 1921.
1. A judgment of a state court which sustains a state tax on interstate commerce over the objection that the statute under which
it was imposed is unconstitutional, is reviewable here by writ of
error, and none the less so because the court below reached its
result by construing the statute as applicable to intrastate commerce only and by erroneously classifying as intrastate the commerce in question. P. 270.
2. A pipe line company received oil from producers in West Virginia, subject to their right thereafter to order equal quantities
of like grade to be transported and delivered to local destinations,
or to extra-state destinations under an interstate tariff, and subject to its duty under the state law to have in its pipes and connected reservoirs enough to satisfy such orders; it charged the
producers a storage and gathering charge under the state law;
the oil as received became subject to the company's control,
was commingled with other like oil, piped through the company's
gathering system to its trunk line pipes, and, except for relatively small quantities ordered diverted to local delivery, became
part of a stream of oil passing through and out of the State.
Held, that a tax on the transportation, in so far as measured by
the quantities produced in but moving out of.West Virginia, was
void under the Commerce Clause. P. 271.
87 W. Va. 396, reversed; writ of certiorari denied.

