HURLEY v. COMMISSION OF FISHERIES. 223
216.

Argument for Appellant.

these circumstances the court reached the conclusion that
the jurisdictional amount was not involved. This conclusion, being sustained by the evidence, it was the duty
of the court to proceed no further with the case.
Affirmed.

HURLEY v. COMMISSION OF FISHERIES OF
VIRGINIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 33.

Argued October 10, 11, 192l.-Decided December 5, 1921.

Decree of the District Court refusing a preliminary injunction, but
not dismissing the bill, in a suit to enjoin the appellees from removing stakes, etc., designating oyster grounds planted by appellant, and thereby opening them to public use,-affirmed.
264 Fed. 116, affirmed.

For a fuller statement of the case see the report of the
case below.
Mr. Thomas B. Snead and Mr. S. S. P. Patteson,with
whom Mr. Herbert I. Lewis and Mr. Thomas J. Downing
were on the brief, for appellant.
Their principal contentions may be summarized as follows:
The statute of Virginia, known as the Oyster Law, (Acts
1910, c. 343) contains only two sections applicable to the
case at bar, to wit, §§ 15 and 39. These provide for the
resurveying of planting grounds, and in neither, nor in any
other portion of the oyster laws, is any provision for a trial
of the rights of an oyster planter, lessee of the State,
whose beds adjoin the Baylor line, demarking the natural
oyster grounds reserved to the public.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellant.

257 U. S.

While the statute 1 provides for the ascertainment of a
fact and uses the words "it shall appear," etc., there is no
provision even for a notice to the occupant.
It is therefore submitted that under the Constitution
the Commission of Fisheries did not have jurisdiction to
determine the property rights of appellant. Appellant
had built up and improved the grounds by planting; had
been allowed by the State's officers to stake them and
pay taxes for rental; was thereby an actual lessee of the
State. At the time of the proceedings instituted by the
Commission his property, in the shape of planted oysters
upon the grounds held by the Commission to be public
bottoms within the Baylor survey, were of the value of
more than $8,000.
By the action of the Commission, it has been determined that the stakes designating the grounds of appellant shall be at once removed and that his planted oysters
shall be thrown open to the public, and that he, the
owner, shall not be permitted to take possession of or to
remove the same,--thus confiscating, without any legal
proceedings, the property of appellant.
It is contended by appellees that appellant appeared
before the Commission. "It is not enough that the
I "§ 15. Resurveys of Planting Ground.-When, by any resurvey
of oyster-planting grounds or survey made to re-establish the lines
of the State survey of natural oyster beds, rocks or shoals, which
shall hereafter be made under the direction of the Commission of
Fisheries, it shall appear that any holder, without his own default,
and by mistake of any officer of the State, has assigned to him and
included in the plat of his assignment any portion of the natural
oyster beds, rocks or shoals as defined by law, and it shall further
appear that such holder has oysters or shells planted on said ground,
then, before the stakes shall be removed from said ground or the
same opened to the public, the said holder shall be allowed a reasonable time, the length of which is to be determined by the Commission
of Fisheries, in their discretion (and duly advertised), within which
to remove his planted oysters or shells from said ground
.

HURLEY v. COMMISSION OF FISHERIES. 225
223.

Opinion of the Court.

owners may by chance have notice, or that they may,
as a matter of favor, have a hearing. The law must
require notice and give them the right to a hearing, and
an opportunity to be heard. . . . The constitutional validity is to be tested, not by what was done
under writ, but by what may by its authority be done."
Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183; Taylor, Due Process,
§ 133; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer Works, 237 U. S. 413,
424; Central of GeorgiaRy. Co.v. Wright, 207 U. S.127.
Mr. Robert W. Shultice, with whom Mr. J.D. Hank
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appellant sought a temporary injunction restraining
the Virginia Commission of Fisheries from removing the
stakes and marks which designated the boundaries of certain oyster grounds in the Rappahannock River, planted
by him and which he claimed the right to occupy, and
thereby opening the same for public use and enjoyment.
He maintained that the Commission. was proceeding
under a state statute invalid because it failed to provide
for proper notice and hearing and that the proposed action
would deprive him of property without due process of
law contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
A majority of the three judges composing the court
below concluded-264 Fed. 116--that the Commission
had acted in substantial compliance with the challenged
statute, that whatever rights of property appellant
claimed in respect of the specified lands, or the oysters
thereon, were necessarily based upon the statute itself
and that he could not both assail -itand rely upon it in
the same proceeding. Kansas City, Memphis & Birmingham R. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S.111, 117. And further
that the evidence showed conclusively that the threatened

226

OCTOBER TERM 1921.
Statement of the Case.

257 U. S.

action would not deprive him of any property which he
could rightfully claim. It accordingly refused to grant a
temporary injunction but did not dismiss complainant's
bill. We find no reason to interfere with this decree and
it is affirmed.
Affirmed.

MR. JUsTICE CLARKE concurs in the result.

RAFFERTY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, v.
SMITH, BELL & COMPANY, LIMITED.
SAME v. COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE
FILIPINAS.
SAME v. VISAYAN REFINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

Nos. 138, 140, 142. Argued November 10, 1921.-Decided December
5, 1921.
1. Taxes on the value of exports from the Philippine Islands collected under a Philippine Act, effective July 1, 1916, while duties
on such exports were forbidden by the Act of Congress of August
29, 1916, c. 416, 39 Stat. 545, were legalized, ratified and confirmed
by the congressional Act of June 5, 1920, c. 253, 41 Stat. 1015, 1025.
P. 231.
2. This was within the power of Congress (United States v. Heinszen
& Co., 206 U. S. 370,) even where the parties taxed had obtained
judgments for restitution, in the Supreme Court of the Philippines,
before the date of the ratifying statute but where the judgments at
that date were still reviewable and subsequently were reviewed in
this court by certiorari. P. 232.
40 Phil. Rep. 691, reversed.

CERTIORARI to the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands for the review of judgments of that court holding
illegal the collection of certain taxes and ordering the Col-

