308

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Orders.

257 U. S.

action of little avail. In actions at law the general practice is to try all the issues in a case at one time; and it is
only in exceptional instances where there are special and
persuasive reasons for departing from this practice that
distinct causes of action asserted in the same case may be
made the subjects of separate trials. Whether this reasonably may be done in any particular instance rests largely
in the court's discretion. See Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. Hillmon, 188 U. S. 208, 210.
We conclude that Miller was not entitled as of right to
a separate trial and that on this record it cannot be said
that the court erred in refusing him a second opportunity
to establish his claim, and in effect dismissing it.
Judgment affirmed.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN MQUIry.

No. 20, Original.
ORDERS ENTERED DECEMB]EU 12, 1921.

Granting leave to intervene.
The motion of the Grand Oil & Developing Company,
submitted December 9, 1921, is granted to the extent that
said company is hereby given leave to file a petition in
intervention setting up its rights and claims in and to
any portion of the territory in dispute by reason of the
controversy as to the location of the boundary line between the States of Oklahoma and Texas; without waiver
of the right of said company to object to the jurisdiction
Qf this court over the subject-matter.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
308.

Orders.

Approving report of Special Master on certain claims,
and directing payments by Receiver, etc. See 256 U. S.
603.

Upon consideration of the report of Frederick S. Tyler,
Special Master, respecting the claims of J. R. Armstrong,
et al., on a certain fund in the hands of the Receiver, and
derived by him from Receiver's wells numbered 157, 162
and 170, and it appearing that copies of said report have
been mailed to counsel for the respective claimants and
that no exceptions or objections thereto have been presented;
It is ORDmuD that said report be, and it is hereby, approved and that the Receiver be, and he is hereby authorized and directed to pay over said fund to the following
persons and in the following amounts, to wit: [Here follow the names and amounts,] with interest upon each of
said amounts at the rate of three per centum per annum
from December 1st, 1920; provided, however, that there
shall first be deducted from said fund and paid to Frederick S. Tyler the sum of one thousand and forty-eight
dollars and thirty-eight cents to cover in full his services
and expenses as such master in connection with said fund
and the claims to it; and the amount so paid to him shall
be deducted pro ratafrom the several awards hereby made
to the claimants above named.
And it is

FURTHER ORDERED

that the payment and

acceptance of said several awards as herein -made shall
operate and be taken as a release and discharge of the
Receiver by such claimants of all claims on and to the
fund so disbursed and distributed

