CRESCENT OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
125.

Syllabus.

was forbidden by statute, except with the consent in writing of the Postmaster General, which was never given.
(c. 107, 20 Stat. 62, ยง 2.) Weighel was the only person
legally bound to perform the original contract; it was
from him that the Government demanded the extra service, and under the facts found by the lower court the obligation to pay for that service was to him, whether he performed it personally or through another. The Government accepted performance of the extra service by Travis
precisely as it accepted performance by him of the obligation under the original contract and the law requires
payment to Weighel for the former as much as it required
the payment which was made to him for the latter.
It results that the judgment of the Court of Claims
must be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
CRESCENT COTTON OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

No. 41. Argued October 17, 1921.-Decided November 14, 1921.
Plaintiff in error, a Tennessee corporation, engaged in the manufacture of cotton-seed oil in that State, finding it impracticable to
carry on the business successfully when purchasing its supply of
cotton seed from ginners or from brokers, acquired and operated
cotton gins in Mississippi and other States, where it ginned cotton
for cotton growers, purchased from them the seed thus separated
from the fiber and then shipped it to its Tennessee factory. Mississippi passed a law forbidding corporations interested i the manufacture of cotton-seed oil from owning or operating cotton gins,
except of a prescribed capacity and in the city or town where their
oil plants were located.
Held: (1) That, since the ginning was merely manufacture; and the
seeds were not in interstate commerce until purchased and com-

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U. S.

mitted to a carrier, the gins were not instrumentalities of interstat
commerce and the prohibition of their operation did not infringe
the company's rights under the commerce clause. P. 135.
(2) That the prohibition did not deny to the company the equal
protection of the laws in applying to corporations and not to individuals, because the inherent difference between corporations and
natural persons sustained the classification and because it might
be assumed, in the absence of any contrary showing, that only
corporations were engaged in operating both oil mills and cotton
gins when the act was passed. P. 137.
121 Miss. 615, affirmed.

Error to a decree of the Supreme Court of Mississippi,
in a suit by the State, imposing a penalty on the plaintiff
in error, forfeiting its right to do local business, enjoining
it from operating its cotton gins and requiring it to dispose of them within a prescribed time.
Mr. J. B. Harris,with whom Mr. Thos. A. Evans and
Mr. A. W. Shands were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The Act of June 18, 1910, amending the Interstate
Commerce Act, extended the conception of transportation, so that it does not await actual delivery of goods to
a carrier. This has a bearing on the present case.
If the State could not impose a tax upon a local business carried on in connection with interstate commerce,
and make the payment of that tax or the filing of statements a condition to the carrying on of the local business,
(Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 86; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Taggart,163 U. S. 1; Ludwig v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 146; Harrisonv. St. Louis
& San FranciscoR. R. Co., 232 U. S. 318; International
Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280; Looney v.
Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178), manifestly it could not under
any guise prevent the carrying on of the local business in
this case.
It is conceded that the oil company was in the State for
no other purpose than for acquiring cotton seed to be
shipped in interstate commerce; and that the operation of

CRESCENT OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
129.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the gin had become absolutely necessary to enable it to
carry on its business with success. It is found as a matter
of fact that the operation of the gin was a mere feeder to
its oil mill in Tennessee; that the cotton seeds were actually purchased in the lint before they were put through
the process of ginning and that it was necessary to separate them in order that they might be shipped, and when
separated they were blown into the seed house and immediately shipped into Tennessee.
We are insisting here that the local business of ginning,
which had been established long prior to the passage of
the'Act of 1914, had become a necessary agency or corporate facility and instrumentality in carrying on interstate commerce. Therefore, the act as applied to the oil
company, being destructive of its interstate commerce,
was a violation of the commerce clause of the Constitution.
The,state court based its decision upon Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U. S. 1, and Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251. In
those cases the court was dealing with the particular state
of facts presented. The manufacturing of liquor in the
one case and of cotton goods in the other was the dominant business, the purpose for which the distillery and
the cotton mill were established. The interstate commerce was merely incidental. In the case at bar, the interstate commerce was the dominant business, the business
for the carrying on of which the oil company had entered
the State of Mississippi. The ginning was merely incidental to this business, a necessary instrumentality for
carrying it on.
There is no question here about any mere intention in
reference to the interstate commerce. The oil company
was doing no other business in Mississippi.
The act provides that oil mills may operate ginneries
located in the town where the oil mill is located. This is

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

a discrimination against the plaintiff in error and all oil
companies whose oil plants are located outside of the
State.
The discrimination between corporations and individuals engaging in the same business violates the Fourteenth
Amendment. There is no essential difference in the business, of operating oil mills and gins by individuals and the
same business carried on by corporations. There must be
a substantial difference in the business to warrant classification and imposition of burdens upon one class and not
upon another class of persons or corporations.
Whether the power exercised is sought to be justified
upon the exercise of the police power or under the reserved
power to alter, amend and repeal charters or under the
general powers in the State to regulate corporations and
businesses affected by the public interest, the power must
be reasonably exercised. It must be necessary for the protection of the public, and, if a classification, must not be
arbitrary but based upon some natural difference which
bears a proper and just relation to the classification sought
to be made.
Mr. Frank Roberson, Attorney General of the State of
Mississippi, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE CLARxi delivered the opinion of the court.,

An act of the Legislature of Mississippi, approved
March 28, 1914, (designated in the record the "Anti-Gin

Act"), prohibits corporations, whether organized under
the laws of that State or authorized under the laws thereof
to do any local business therein, among other things, from
owning or operating any cotton gin, when such corporation is interested in the manufacture of cotton seed oil or
cotton seed meal. A penalty is provided for violation of
the act, but corporations are permitted to operate their
gins for a reasonable time until they may be sold. A pro-

CRESCENT OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
129

Opinion of the Court.

viso permits cotton seed oil companies to operate gins of

a prescribed capacity, but only in the city or town where
their oil plants are located. Mississippi Laws 1914, c. 162;
ยง 4752, et seq. Hemingway's Code, 1917.
The plaintiff in error, a corporation organized under
Tennessee Laws, prior to 1914 owned and operated a cotton seed oil mill at Memphis in that State, and two cotton
gins in Mississippi. Disregarding the Anti-Gin Act, it
continued to operate its two gins in Mississippi until October, 1915, when, for the purpose of enforcing the law, the
State, on the relation of its Attorney General, instituted a
suit in equity against the company in a county court of
chancery, which, after various vicissitudes, resulted in a
decree that the act was constitutional, and that the plaintiff in error was guilty of violating it. A penalty was imposed upon the company, its right to do intrastate or local
business in Mississippi was declared forfeited, it was perpetually enjoined from operating cotton gins in the State,
and it was ordered that, within ninety days, the company
should dispose of the two cotton gins which it owned and
operated in Mississippi. The company was also found
guilty of violating the Anti-Trust law of the State and a
penalty therefor was imposed.
This is a proceeding in error to review the decree of the
Supreme Court of Mississippi affirming that decree of the
county court as to the Anti-Gin Act. The holding that
the Anti-Trust laws were violated was reversed by the Supreme Court.
Without proof of it in the record, the case is argued
upon the assumption that the statute assailed was efiacted in aid of the Anti-Trust laws of the State, under the
conviction on the part of the legislature that it was the
practice of corporations operating oil mills and cotton gins
to depress the price of ginning, regardless of cost, until
local competition was suppressed, or brought to terms,
and then to charge excessive prices for ginning and to pay

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

unfairly low prices for seed. There is evidence in the record tending to show resort to such methods by the plaintiff
in error.
It clearly appears that in practice it is an advantage to
the purchaser of cotton seed to operate gins, not only for
the profit that may be made from them directly, but because the grower of cotton often prefers to sell his seed to
the company ginning it rather than carry it to another
purchaser. It is also in evidence that individuals, as well
as corporations, owned and operated gins and that other
oil companies than the plaintiff in error obtained their
supplies of seed from growers, from gin owners and from
brokers.
The plaintiff in error has heretofore relied, and here relies, for its defense, upon the unconstitutionality of the
Anti-Gin Act, which it asserts upon two grounds, viz:
first, that, as applied to the plaintiff in error, it imposes a
direct and substantial, and therefore an unconstitutional,
burden upon an instrumentality of interstate commerce;
and, second, mildly, that, the act being applicable to corporations and not to individuals owning and operating
cotton gins, it denies to the plaintiff in error the equal
protection of the laws and therefore offends against the
Constitution of the United States.
The basis of the first contention is the claim that it had
become impracticable for the oil company to carry on its
oil manufacturing business successfully when purchasing
its cotton seed supply from other ginners or from brokers,
that for this reason the company acquired its two cotton
gins in Mississippi, and nine in other States, to obtain the
advantage of purchasing seed. direct from the growers of
cotton, and that all of the cotton seed which it had purchased in connection with its gins was shipped in interstate commerce to its oil mill at Memphis, the gins being,
in effect, "feeders" to its oil mill.
These facts, not disputed in the record, it is argued, constitute the gins an essential means and instrumentality of

CRESCENT OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
129.

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce and that therefore the act imposes a
direct and unconstitutional burden on commerce between
the States in violation of ยง 8 of Article I of the Constitution of the United States.
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1;
Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Ludwig v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 146; and Harrisonv. St.
Louis & San FranciscoR. R. Co., 232 U. S. 318, are relied
upon to sustain this contention of the plaintiff in error.
In the first two of the cases cited an attempt was made by
the State of Kansas to tax interstate carriers on the basis
of all of their property, wherever situated, as measured by
the capital stock of the companies. In the third case a
similar attempt was made by the State of Arkansas.
There was no question in any of these cases but that
the principal business of the companies challenging the
taxing law was interstate in character and that their chief
investment was in property used in and necessary to the
conduct of their interstate commerce. The controversy
in the cases was as to the incidence of the tax,--whether it
was so imposed upon the property of the companies or the
stock representing it, as to constitute a direct and substantial burden upon the interstate commerce in which they
were engaged.
It is clear that these decisions cannot be of aid in determining the question we are now considering, which is,
whether a cotton gin operated by an oil company in Mississippi is rendered an instrumentality of interstate commerce by the fact that the owner of it ships out of the
State, for its use in another State, all of the cotton seed
which may be purchased in connection with its ginning
operations.
The fourth case relied upon, Harrison v. St. Louis &
San FranciscoR. R. Co., 232 U. S. 318, was an attempt on
the part of a State to prevent removal of causes from state
to United States courts and is, if possible, yet more inapposite.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The separation of the seed from the fiber of the cotton
which is accomplished by the use of the cotton gin, is a
short but important step in the manufacture of both the
seed and the fiber into useful articles of commerce, but
that manufacture is not commerce was held in Kidd v.
Pearson,128 U. S. 1, 20, 21; UnitedStates v. E. C. Knight
Co., 156 U. S. 1, 12, 13; Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio,
183 U. S. 238, 245; McCluskey v. Marysville & Northern
Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 36,38; Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S.
251, 252; and in Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 151, 152. And
the fact, of itself, that an article when in the process of
manufacture is intended for export to another State does
not render it an article of interstate commerce. Coe.v.
Errol, 116 U. S. 517, and New York Central R. R. Co. v.
Mohney, 252 U. S. 152, 155. When the ginning is completed the operator of the gin is free to purchase the seed
or not, and if it is purchased to store it in Mississippi indefinitely, or to sell or use it in that State or to ship it out
of the State for use in another, and, under the cases cited,
it is only in this last case and after the seed has been committed to a carrier for interstate transport that it passes
from the 'regulatory power of the State into interstate
-commerce and under the national power.
The application of these conclusions of law to the
manufacturing operations of the cotton gins, which we
have seen precede but are not a part of interstate commerce, renders it quite impossible to consider them an
instrumentality of such commerce, which is burdened by
the Anti-Gin Act, and the first contention of the plaintiff
in error must be denied.
There remains the second contention, that the Anti-Gin
Act denies to plaintiff in error the equal protection of the
laws, because it applies to corporations and not to individuals.

CRESCENT OIL CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.
129.

Opinion of the Court.

Where, as we have found in this case, a foreign corporation has no federal right to continue to do business in a
State, and where, as here, no contract right is involved
and there is no employment by the Federal Government,
it is the settled law that a State may impose conditions,
in its discretion, upon the right of such a corporation to
do business within the State, even to the extent of excluding it altogether. Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York,
143 U. S. 305; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231
U. S. 68, 83, and cases cited. And in such case the inherent difference between corporations and natural persons is sufficient to sustain a classification making restrictions applicable to corporations only. Hammond Packing
Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322, 343, 344; Baltic Mining
Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, 83. And see Fort
Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532, 533; American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 276; W. W. Cargill Co. v.
Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452.
This would be sufficient to dispose of this second contention, but we may add that the law assailed was enacted by the State in the exercise of its police power, to
prevent a practice conceived to be promotive of monopoly
with its attendant evils. It is clearly settled that any
classification adopted by a State in the exercise of this
power which has a reasonable basis, and is therefore not
arbitrary, will be sustained against an attack based upon
the equal protection of the laws clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and also that every state of facts sufficient to
sustain such classification which can be reasonably conceived of as having existed when the law was enacted will
be assumed. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220
U. S. 61, and cases cited; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis
Co., 240 U. S. 342.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

The record before us shows that, before the law assailed
was enacted, cotton gins had been operated in Mississippi
by individuals as well as by corporations, but there is no
showing that oil mills und cotton gins were both operated
by an individual or by groups of individuals, and we think
it may well be assumed, under the rule stated, that because of the.larger capital required, and perhaps for other
reasons, oil mills and cotton gins may have been operated
in that State, only by corporations, and that for this reason the restrai#,t of the evil aimed at by the act of the
legislature could be accomplished by controlling corporations only. Assuming this to be the fact when the law was
enacted, obviously the classification objected to can not be
pronounced so without reasonable basis as to be arliitrary.
A number of minor contentions are discussed in the
briefs. These have all been considered, but are found to
be not of sufficient substance to deserve special disdussion.
It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi will be
Affirmed.
JOAN THORSTMANN COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
NATRON SODA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 26, 32.

Argued October 7, 1921.-Decided November
21, 1921.

In actions in the Court of Claims for damages resulting from an
unforeseen flooding of claimants' soda lakes following construction
and operation of a government irrigation project by which water
was brought into the watershed,Held: (1) That allegations that the water percolated through the
ground, due to lack of proper lining in the Government's canals
and ditches, the manner of their construction and the natural con-

