6

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75. Redfield v. Bartels, 139 U. S. 694.
But in any event the statute supposes a suit already begun against the officer in his lifetime. We need not consider the remedies against the United States. United
States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co., 237 U. S. 28;
Sage v. United States, 250 U. S. 33. It appears to us
plain without further discussion that both questions must
be answered: - No.
Answers to Questions 1 and 2: No.
MR. JUSTICE McKEwwA

and MR. JUSTICE; CiARKE dis-

sent.
EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF LINCOLN GAS
& ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR REHEARING OF APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. 29, Original.

October Term, 1920.-Decided October 24, 1921.

Where a decree of the District Court, upholding as adequate a gas
rate fixed by a city ordinance, was affirmed by this court without prejudice to the bringing of a new suit to restrain enforcement
if changed conditions should make the rate confiscatory,Held: (1) That, until such new suit was begun, the ordinance was
established by the decision as the lawful and exclusive measure of
the rates chargeable by the plaintiff gas company. P. 9.
(2) That the original suit did not end until the going down of the
mandate from this court. P. 9.
(3) That a new suit filed at that time, and the granting of a restraining order therein, could affect only the then future operation
of the ordinance, and could not oust the District Court of its jurisdiction, ancillary to the former suit, to award restitution, gauged
by the ordinance rate, of overcharges exacted by the plaintiff from
its consumers during the period between the original decree of that
court and the going down of the mandate. P. 9.
(4) That the ancillary jurisdiction was independent of whether the
plaintiff's injunction bond, in the former suit, was sufficient to cover
the overcharges. P. 10.
Rehearing denied.

EX PARTE LINCOLN GAS CO.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert A. Brown, Mr. Maxwell V. Beghtol, Mr.
Charles A. Frueauff and Mr. Wade H. Ellis, in supp6rt of
the petition.
MR. JusTice PrrNpY delivered the opinion of the court.
Petitioner asks a rehearing of this matter and a reconsideration of our decision of June 1, 1921, 256 U. S. 512,
by which we refused to award a mandamus requiring the
Judge of the District Court to refrain from exercising jurisdiction in the cause of Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co.
v. City of Lincoln, et al., after our disposal of the final
decree on appeal, for the purpose of requiring restitution
to gas consumers of amounts exacted by petitioner pending the suit in excess of the maximum rates permitted by
the ordinance that was under attack therein.
We have permitted the petition for rehearing to be filed
and shall state briefly why it cannot be granted.
In our opinion in the principal case delivered June 2,
1919 (250 U. S. 256), while sustaining generally the decree of the District Court dated September 23, 1915,
which dismissed the bill of complaint, we nevertheless
said (p. 268) that the decree should be modified "so a to
permit complainant to make another application to the
courts for relief against the operation of the ordinance
hereafter, if it can show, as a result of its practical test of
the dollar rate since May 1, 1915, or upon evidence respecting values, costs of operation, and the current rates
of return upon capital as they stand at the time of bringing suit and are likely to continue thereafter, that the rate
ordinance is confiscatory in its effect under the new conditions." To that end we modified the decree so that the
dismissal of the bill as to the rate ordinance should be
" without prejudice to the commencement of a new action
to restrain the enforcement of said ordinance hereafter,"
and affirmed it as thus modified.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Upon the going down of the mandate the District Court
on January 6, 1920, entered an order modifying its decree
of September 23, 1915, as required, and retaining jurisdiction for the purpose of requiring the petitioner to make
refund and restitution to consumers of gas for amounts
collected over and above the legal rate pending the litigation; and against this order relief was sought through
mandamus.
In the opinion refusing a mandamus, in response to the
contention that the jurisdiction of the District Court to
require restitution did not extend to overcharges subsequent to September 23, 1915, we stated that the decree of
that date was conclusive evidence that petitioner had
failed in the attempt to prove the ordinance rate noncompensatory, and hence that it not only was lawful and
binding, but would so continue unless and until the petitioner, under the leave reserved, should begin a new suit
and maintain its contention that the rate, through
changed conditions, had become noncompensatory. It is
now urged that this was based upon the assumption that
no suit had been instituted attacking the rate since our
decision of the appeal in the main case; and petitioner
sets up, as the principal ground for asking a rehearing,
that on January 6, 1920, a new suit was brought by it in
the same court against the city and its officials for the
purpose, as stated, of taking advantage of the permission
granted in the mandate following our decision of June 2,
1919.
Petitioner exhibits a copy of its petition in the new suit,
which is in the nature of a bill in equity; also a copy of a
restraining order granted by the District Court thereon.
In our opinion refusing the mandamus we did not mention the new suit, for the very good reason that it had
not been brought to our attention; not being mentioned
either in the petition for mandamus, in the return of the

EX PARTE LINCOLN GAS CO.
6.

Opinion of the Court.

district judge to our order to show cause, or in the briefs
or arguments on either side.
It hardly was to be expected that the commencement
of a new suit asking for an injunction because of changed
conditions would oust the court of its jurisdiction over
proceedings ancillary to the suit theretofore terminated
and having for their purpose the bringing to a conclusion
of rights arising out of it; and it will easily be seen that
it can have no such effect.
Instead of addressing itself to the question whether the
rate ordinance was confiscatory under the conditions existing at the time of bringing the suit and likely to continue thereafter, it is largely devoted to an attack upon
the adequacy of the rate, and consequently upon the
validity of the ordinance, from and after September 23,
1915; there being specific averments and prayers as to the
period from that date to the commencement of the new
suit, with only inferential reference td the operation of
the ordinance rate thereafter.
But the former suit was terminated not upon the making of the District Court's decree of September 23, 1915,
nor upon the announcement of our decision affirming it
on June 2, 1919, but upon the going down of the mandate,
which, for reasons that do not appear, was delayed until
January 5, 1920. Until that date the ordinance was established by the decision as the lawful and exclusive measure of the rates chargeable by petitioner for gas served to
consumers, and the gauge by which its liability to make
refund for overcharges exacted during suit was to be determined. The beginning of the new suit, and the granting of a restraining order therein, can properly have effect
only with respect to the then future operation of the ordinance, and cannot affect the measure of recovery to be
applied by the District Court in awarding restitution for
the period covered by the former suit; much less its juris-

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

diction to award such restitution. See Minneapolis, St.
Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Ry. Co. v. Merrick Co., 254 U. S.

376.
In truth the new suit, in so far as it may purport to
bear at all upon the proceedings against which maxdamus
was sought, is not within the leave reserved in the "without prejudice" provision, indeed is in the nature of a bill
of review, although leave to file such a bill was asked of
us pending appeal in the former suit and refused for reasons stated in 250 U. S. 261-262. In any aspect, neither
the pendency of the new suit, nor the granting of a restraining order therein, constitutes the least reason for
granting the rehearing asked for.
Other points are suggested, but they are without substance. The fact, if it be a fact as alleged, that the bond
given in the former suit is not sufficient in amount to
cover the aggregate overcharges collected by petitioner
pendente lite in excess of the ordinance rate, manifestly
raises no question about the jurisdiction of the District
Court to award restitution.
Rehearing denied.
YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY 2ET AL. v. CITY OF CLARKSDALE.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 15. Argued October 6, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. A judgment of a state court denying the validity of a title
claimed under an execution sale based upon a federal court judgment, because of supposed irregularities in the marshal's attempted
exercise of his authority to sell, the authority itself not having
been drawn in question, is reviewable by certiorari and not by writ
of error, under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended. P. 15.
2. The application of state laws to a marshal's sale of property under
a common-law execution issued on praecipe from a federal court,

