92

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

WILSON v. REPUBLIC .IRON & STEEL COMPANY
E,'T AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICM COURT OF THE UNlITZl) AT
THE NORTHERN DISTRItT OF ALABAMA.

S ioR

No. 21. Argued October 6, 7, 1 2.--ecided November 7, 1921.

1. Whether a Distriet Court into which a case has been removed
from a state court may retain the case and proceed to its adjudication, or must remand it to the court whence It came, is a jurisdictional question a decision of which sustaining the jurisdiction
may be reviewed here by direct writ df Iftor, under Jud. Code,
§ 238, after final judgment, ?P 58.
2. A judgment of the District Court dismissing an action after removal, for failure of the plaintiff to pay the costs in an earlier one
brought in that court upon the same cause of action, wherein he
had taken a voluntary nonsuit, is a final judgment, for purposes of
review, even though not a bar to another aetion. P. 96.
3. But upon a direct review under Jud. Code, § 238, involving the
District Court's jursdtin to retain the case after removal, the
propriety of its action in dismissing it for failure to pay such costs
cannot be considered. P. 96.
4. The fact that a joinder of a resident defendant fair on its face,
is a fraudulent device to prevent removal, may be shown by
a verified petition alleging the facts as distinct fkoit conclusions;
and the statements so made must be accepted by the state cdiit as
true. P. 97.
5.After removal, the plaintiff, by motion to remand, plea or answer,
may traverse the allegations of the petition, and then the issues so
arising must be heard and determined by the District Court, and
the petitioning defendant must carry the burden of profi but, if
the plaintiff fail to take issue with them he must be deemed to
assent to the truth of what is stated in the petition and the petitioning defendant need not produce any proof to sustain it. P.
97.

Q. Where a petition to remove an action for personal injuries brought
by an employee against an employer and a coemployee, aptly and
clearly showed that the coemployee was joined without any purpose to prosecute the action in good faith against him and with
the purpose of fraudulently defeating the employer's right of re-

WILSON v. REPUBLIC IRON CO.
92.

Opinion of the Court.

moval, held, that a motion to remand for want of jurisdiction
merely specifying as grounds that the plaintiff and the coemployee

were citizens of the same State and that the object of the removal
was to delay the trial, did not put in issue the facts averred in the

petition, and that the question whether an employer and a coemployee might be jointly liable, under the state law, for the same
injury, although the liability of the one was statutory and of the
other at common law, was irrelevant. P. 98.
7. The fact that a removal was made for delay does not affect the
jurisdiction of the District Court to retain the ease. P. 99.

Affirmed.
DIREcT writ of error to determine the jurisdiction of

the District Court to retain a case removed from a state
court.
Mr. W. A. Denson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Augustus Benners, for defendants in error, submitted.
MATR. JusTIcE VAx DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action by an employee against his employer
and a coemployee to recover for injuries sustained by the
plaintiff by reason, as was alleged, of his conforming to
an order or direction negligently given to him by the coemployee and to which he was bound to conform. The
injuries were sustained in Alabama and the action was
brought in a court of that State. The employer's liability
was based on an Alabama statute, Ala. Code, 1907, § 3910,
el. 3, and that of the coemployee on the common law.
The complaint was in a single count and treated the defendants as jointly liable.
In due time the employer presented to the state court a
petition and bond for the removal of the cause to the District Court of the United States, and the removal was
ordered and completed. The petition was properly veri-

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

fled and as grounds for the removal stated in substance,
that the amount in controversy exceeded three thousand
dollars, exclusive of interest and costs; that the plaintiff
and the employer were citizens of different States, the
former of Alabama and the latter of New Jersey; that the
controversy between them was separable and properly
could be fully determined without the presence of any
other party; that the coemployee was a citizen of Alabama and was wrongfully and fraudulently joined as a
defendant with the sole purpose of preventing a removal
of the cause to the District Court; that it was not the purpose of the plaintiff to prosecute the action in good faith
against the coemployee and the joinder of the latter was
merely a sham or device to prevent an exercise of the employer's right of removal; that the plaintiff had brought
an earlier action in the District Court against the employer alone to recover for the same injuries and on the
trial had taken a voluntary nonsuit because it appeared
that he probably could not recover in that court on the
evidence presented; that soon thereafter the present action, with the coemployee joined as a defendant, was begun in the state court; that the plaintiff personally and
intimately knew every person who could by any possible
chance have caused his injuries and knew the coemployee
was not in any degree whatsoever responsible therefor;
and that, as the plaintiff well knew all along, the coemployee was not guilty of any joint negligence with the
employer, was not present when the plaintiff's injuries
were received, and did no act or deed which caused or
contributed to such injuries.
Shortly after the removal the plaintiff filed in the District Court a motion to remand the cause to the state
court. This motion challenged the jurisdiction of the District Court on the grounds that one of the defendants, the
coemployee, was a citizen of the same State as the plain-

WILSON v. REPUBLIC IRON CO.
92.

Opinion of the Court.

tiff and that the removal was taken for the purpose of delaying the trial of the cause; but the plaintiff did not by
the motion or in any wise traverse or take issue with any
of the allegations of the petition for removal. The motion
was heard on the record as it then stood with an admission
that the citizenship of the parties and the amount in controversy were as stated in the petition for removal, neither
party producing any affidavits or other evidence. As a
result of the hearing the motion was denied because, as
the order recites, the court was of opinion that "the
grounds of said motion are not well taken." The plaintiff
excepted. Then, on the motion of the employer; the
court made an order requiring the plaintiff, within a fixed
time, to pay the costs in the earlier action wherein he had
taken a voluntary nonsuit,-in default of which the present action was to be dismissed. The plaintiff excepted to
this order and also failed to comply with it. After the
time for compliance had passed the court, conforming to
the prior order, entered a judgment of dismissal.
To obtain a review of the ruling on the jurisdictional
question presented by the motion to remand the plaintiff
sought and obtained this direct writ of error; and in that
connection the District Court certified that the jurisdictional question presented to and decided by it was whether
in the circumstances already stated it had jurisdiction to
retain the cause and proceed to a determination thereof in
regular course, or was required to remand the same to the
state court.
Our power, on this direct writ, to review the ruling on
the question indicated, although challenged, is altogether
plain.
Section 238 of the Judicial Cede provides for a review
by us, on a direct appeal or writ of error, of the decision of
a District Court "in any case in which the jurisdiction of
the court is in issue," and then adds, "in which case the

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. 6.

question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for decision."
Whether a District Court into which a case has been
removed from a state court may retain the same and proceed to its adjudication or must remand it to the court
whence it came is a jurisdictional question the decision of
which, where the jurisdiction is sustained,1 may be reviewed under that section. Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co., 169 U. S. 92, 96; McAllister v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 302, 305.
Of course, the review can be had only after a final judgment. McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661. But a judgment of
dismissal, such as is shown here, is a final judgment. That
it leaves the merits undetermined and may not be a bar
to another action does not make it interlocutory. It
effectually terminates the particular case, prevents the
plaintiff from further prosecuting the same and relieves
the defendant from putting in a defense. This gives it
the requisite finality for the purposes of a review. Wecker
v. National Enameling & Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176,
181-182; Detroit & Mackinac Ry. Co. v. Michigan Railroad Commission, 240 U. S.564, 570; McAllister v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., supra;Colorado EasternRy. Co. v.
Union Pacific Ry. Co., 94 Fed. 312.
The jurisdictional question is all that is before us. The
propriety of the ruling respecting the costs of the prior
action is challenged in the assignments of error but cannot
be considered. The plaintiff was at liberty to take the
whole case to the Circuit Court of Appeals or to bring it
here on the question of jurisdiction alone. He took the
latter course and by doing so waived all right to a review
of the ruling on the other matter. McLish v. Roff, supra;

I If the cause be remanded the order is not open to review. Jud.
Code, § 28; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556,
580-583; German Natioizal Bank v. Speckert, 181 U. S. 405.

WILSON v. REPUBLIC IRON CO.
92.

Opinion of the Court.

Unitea States v. Jahn, 155 U. S. 109; Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359; Hennessy v. Richardson Drug Co.,
189 U. S. 25, 33.
A civil case, at law or in equity, presenting a controversy between citizens of different States and involving
the requisite jurisdictional amount, is one which may be
removed from a. state court into the District Court of the
United States by the defendant, if not a resident of the
State in which the case is brought, § 28 Jud. Code; and
this right of removal cannot be defeated by a fraudulent
joinder of a resident defendant having no real connection
with the controversy. Wecker v. National Enameling &
Stamping Co., 204 U. S. 176, 185-186. If in such a case
a resident defendant is joined, the joinder, although fair
upon its face, may be shown by a petition for removal to
be only a sham or fraudulent device to prevent a removal;
but the showing must consist of a statement of facts
rightly leading to that conclusion apart from the pleader's
deductions. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Cockrell, 232
U. S. 146, 152. The petition must be verified, § 29 Jud.
Code, and its statements must be taken by the state court
as true. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S.
308, 316. If a removal is effected, the plaintiff may, by a
motion to remand, plea or answer, take issue with the
statements in the petition. If he does, the issues so arising must be heard and determined by the District Court,
Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430, 432; Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Dowell, 229 U. S. 102,
113; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Cockrel, supra, pp.
152, 154, and at the hearing the petitioning defendant
must take and carry the burden of proof, he being the
actor in the removal proceeding. Carsonv. Dunham, 121
U. S. 421, 425-426. But if the plaintiff does not take
issue with what is stated in the petition, he must be taken
as assenting to its truth and the petitioning defendant

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U.S.

need not produce any proof to sustain it. Kentucky v.
Powers, 201 U. S. 1, 33-34, 35.1
Here but for the joinder of the coemployee the case
plainly was one which the employer was entitled to have
removed into the District Court on the ground of diverse
citizenship; and, if the showing in the petition for removal be taken as true, it is apparent that the coemployee
was joined as a defendant without any purpose to prosecute the action in good faith as against him and with the
purpose of fraudulently defeating the employer's right of
removal. This is the rational conclusion from the facts
appropriately stated, apart from the pleader's deductions.
The petition was properly verified and the plaintiff, although free to take issue with its statements, did not do
so. He therefore was to be taken as assenting to their
truth, relieving the employer from adducing evidence to
sustain them, and merely challenging their sufficiency in
point of law. We hold they were sufficient, in that they
disclosed that the joinder was a sham and fraudulent and
hence was not a legal obstacle to the removal or to the retention of the cause by the District Court.
The briefs disclose that the parties differ as to whether
the local law gives any color for treating the employer
and the coemployee as jointly liable,-the asserted liability of one resting on a statute and that of the other on the
common law. But we do not find it necessary to solve this
question. As the joinder was a sham and fraudulentthat is, without any reasonable basis in fact and without
any purpose to prosecute the cause in good faith against
the coemployee-the result must be the same whether the
I And see Dow v. Bradstreet Co., 46 Fed. 824, 828; Durkee v. Illi-

nois Central R. R. Co., 81 Fed. 1; Dishon v. Cincinnati,New Orleans
& Texas Pacific Ry. Co., 133 Fed. 471, 474-476; ,Donovan v. Wells,
Fargo& Co., 169 Fed. 363, 368-369; Hunter v. Illinois Central R. R.
Co., 188 Fed. 645, 648; Jones v. Casey-Hedges Co., 213 Fed. 43,
46-47.

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK v. DURR.
Syllabus.

92.

local law makes for or against a joint liability.

See

Wecker v. NatioialEnameling & Stamping Co., supra, p.
183; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S. 184, 194.
In his motion to remand the plaintiff asserted that the
removal was obtained for purposes of delay. But this
had no jurisdictional bearing, no attempt was made to
prove it and it is not relied on here.
We think the District Court rightfully sustained its
jurisdiction under the removal.
Judgment affirmed.

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI,
ADMINISTRATOR OF ANDERSON, v. DURR, AS
FORMER AUDITOR, ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF OHIO.

No. 27. Argued October 7, 1921.-Decided November 7, 1921.
1. Where objection to a tax imposed under general state statutes was
limited to a claim of constitutional immunity for the particular
subject taxed, without drawing in question the validity of the statutes as construed or of the authority exercised under the State in
imposing the tax, a judgment sustaining the tax is reviewable by
certiorari but not by writ of error, under Jud. Code, § 237, as
amended.

P. 106.

2. A constitutional ground advanced for the first time in a petition
for rehearing, presented to a state Supreme Court and denied without reasons given, comes too late to raise a question for review by

this court. P. 106.
3. A membership in the New York Stock Exchange, although partaking of the nature of a personal privilege and assignable only with
qualifications, is a valuable property right subject to property taxation. P. 108.
4. Whether such a membership, when held by a resident of Ohio, is
subjected to taxation by the Ohio taxing laws, is a question of state
law determinable by the Supreme Court of that State. P. 108.

