OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Order.

257 U. S.

HILL,JR., ET AL. v. WALLACE, SECRETARY OF
AGRICULTURE, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS,

No. 616. Argued on motion to modify restraining order December
5, 1921.-Order entered December 12, 1921.1

Order vacating stay, granting injunction pending appeal and requiring bond.
The order entered herein, November 21, 1921, so far as
it operates to stay proceedings pending the appeal is
hereby vacated, and in lieu thereof it is ordered (the appellees not objecting), that during the pendency of said
appeal in this court and for 20 days after final decree
herein the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago and its
directors, appellees, are restrained from admitting to
membership in said board any representative of a cooperative association of producers not otherwise admissible to membership under the rules of said Board of
'Trade in effect prior to the institution of this suit,
and from making and filing or requiring appellants or
any other of its members to make and file any report
required by any rule or regulation issued by the Secretary
of Agriculture under the Act of Congress approved August
24, 1921, entitled "The Future Trading Act," and from
modifying its rules and by-laws in respect to admitting
to membership any representative of any such coaperative association or in respect to the making and filing of
such reports, in order to entitle said Board of Trade to
be designated ae a "contract market;"
And that during the same period the appellee, Henry
C. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture, is restrained from
designating the said Chicago Board of Trade as a "conIFor the order of November 21, 1921, see post, 615.

HILL v. WALLACE.
310.

Order.

tract market" except temporarily for and during said
period, and is restrained from requiring said Board of
Trade during said period to comply with the conditions
and requirements of ยง 5 of said act as to the making and
filing of reports showing the details and terms of transactions entered into by the board or the members thereof,
or as to the keeping by the board or its members of a
record showing the details and terms of said transactions;
and from requiring the governing board of said Chicago
Board of Trade during said period to admit to membership and the privileges thereof any representative of a cooperative association of producers not otherwise admissible to membership under the rules of said Board of
Trade in effect prior to the institution of this suit;
And that the said Henry C. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture, is authorized to designate the said Board of Trade
of the City of Chicago as a "contract market" under the
said act of Congress, for and during the same period,
without requiring said Board of Trade to comply with
the conditions and requirements of ยง 5 of said act in the
several respects above mentioned.
This order is made upon condition that within 5 days
hereafter the appellants execute unto the appellees herein
and file in this cause a good and sufficient bond in the sum
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), with sureties
to be approved by the clerk of this court, and conditioned
that the appellants will promptly pay any and all damages
which may be suffered by the appellees herein, or any of
them, by reason of the granting or continuance of this
order, if it is ultimately adjudged that the said "Future
Trading Act" is a valid act in whole or in part.
Mr. Henry S. Robbins for appellants.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck for appellees.

