EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. v. HALLANAN. 265
260.

Syllabus.

103 Md. 564. Boyd v. Mutual Fire Association of Eau
Claire, 116 Wise. 155. Wallace v. Lincoln Savings Bank,
89 Tenn. 630.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRAwNEis took no part in the decision of
this case.

EUREKA PIPE LINE COMPANY v. HALLANAN,
STATE TAX COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 255. Argued November 9, 1921.--Decided December 12, 1921.
1. A judgment of a state court which sustains a state tax on interstate commerce over the objection that the statute under which
it was imposed is unconstitutional, is reviewable here by writ of
error, and none the less so because the court below reached its
result by construing the statute as applicable to intrastate commerce only and by erroneously classifying as intrastate the commerce in question. P. 270.
2. A pipe line company received oil from producers in West Virginia, subject to their right thereafter to order equal quantities
of like grade to be transported and delivered to local destinations,
or to extra-state destinations under an interstate tariff, and subject to its duty under the state law to have in its pipes and connected reservoirs enough to satisfy such orders; it charged the
producers a storage and gathering charge under the state law;
the oil as received became subject to the company's control,
was commingled with other like oil, piped through the company's
gathering system to its trunk line pipes, and, except for relatively small quantities ordered diverted to local delivery, became
part of a stream of oil passing through and out of the State.
Held, that a tax on the transportation, in so far as measured by
the quantities produced in but moving out of.West Virginia, was
void under the Commerce Clause. P. 271.
87 W. Va. 396, reversed; writ of certiorari denied.

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

257 U. S.

ERROR to a judgment sustaining a tax in a suit brought
by the plaintiff in error to restrain its enforcement. See
the next case, post, 277.
Mr. Frank L. Crawford,with whom Mr. James Al. Beck
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
The oil having been transported in a continuous stream
through and out of the State (except as to relatively small
portions diverted to refineries within the State), and having at the very outset of its journey been delivered by the
producers to, and remained in the custody of, a common
carrier (the plaintiff) until so transported, was in interstate commerce from the moment it was received by the
plaintiff. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Speight, 254
U. S. 17; United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420; Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wright, 239 U. S. 548;
North CarolinaR. R. Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321; International Textbook Co. v.
Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Ohio R. R. Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Western Oil Refining Co. v. Lipscomb,
244 U. S. 346; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service
Commission, 252 U. S. 23; PennsylvaniaGas Co. v. Saxe,
229 N. Y. 446; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S.
375; Texas & New OrleansR. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co.,
227 U. S. 111; Bracht v. San Antonio &c. Ry. Co., 254
U. S. 489; Bailey v. Bensley, 87 111. 556; Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504; General Oil Co.
v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211; Standard Oil Co. v. Graves, 249
U. S. 389. Distinguishing: McCluskey v. Marysville &
Northern Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 36, and Arkadelphia Co. v.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134.
In view of plaintiff's operating contracts, and of the
Pipe Line Act of West Virginia as construed by its highest court, the delivery by plaintiff to a consignee of a
like amount of oil of the same grade in lieu of that re-

EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. v. HALLANAN. 267
265.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ceived, was equivalent in law to delivery of the very
oil received. 87 W. Va. 396; Bailey v. Bensley, 87 Ill.
556; National Exchange Bank v. Wilder, 34 Minn. 149;
Hall v. Pillsbury, 43 Minn. 33.
In view of such construction by the court below, and
of the evidence that the oil, or like amounts thereof, was
by its owners intended to be, and actually was, transported through and out of the State, it will be presumed
that such oil was received by plaintiff for interstate transportation, and its transportation, therefore, was interstate commerce. Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498; Worthington Case, supra; Sabine Tram Case, supra; Railroad
Commission of Louisiana v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 229
U. S. 336; Lipscomb Case,supra. See Creswill v. Knights
of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246.
Even if the view of the court below were adopted,
that the gathering charge covered the service of gathering and conveying the oil to plaintiff's trunk lines,
and that for the transportation through .its main pipe
lines to destination plaintiff charged the further rate allowed by the Interstate Commerce Commission (which
is not admitted), still this would only be a case of rebilling en route, and such re-billing would be immaterial
in view of the intention of the parties and the general
course of business. Worthington Case, supra; Sabine
Tram Case, supra; Lipscomb Case, supra; Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S. 371;
South Covington Ry. Co. v. Covingtdn, 235 U. S. 537.
But as it was a case of a double charge for one continuous service, it is not necessary to interpret the transaction
as one of re-billing.
Where intrastate and interstate transactions are so interwoven, the authority of Congress extends to the whole
situation. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 381, 382,

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

257 U. S.

399; Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20;
Erie R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 170; Philadelphia&
Reading Ry. Co. v. Polk, 256 U. S. 332.
Mr. Fred 0. Blue and Mr. S. B. Avis, with whom Mr.
E. T. England, Attorney General of the State of West
Virginia, and Mr. Win. Gordon Mathews were on the
brief, for defendants in error.
There is not drawn in question the validity of a statute
of or an authority exercised under any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution,
treaties or laws of the United States, with the necessary
decision in favor of such validity, so as to justify review
here by writ or error; nor is there drawn in question any
title, right, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, so as to
justify review by certiorari. The claim of plaintiff is, in
effect, that because the oil is a lawful subject of interstate commerce, it may neither be subject to a tax, nor
made the measure of a tax, prior to the determination by
its owner that it shall be placed in interstate commerce.
The court below was correct in holding that it was the
legislative intent to impose a tax only upon the intrastate
transportation of the plaintiff and measured by the
amount of such commerce. Quong Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial Accident Commission, 255 U. S. 445; Kehrer v.
Stewart, 197 U. S. 60; Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S.
420; Platt v. New York, 232 U. S. 58; Barrett v. New
York, 232 U. S. 14; Louisville &c. Ry. Co. v. Mississippi,
133 U. S. 587; Peik v. Chicago&c. R. R. Co., 94 U. S. 164;
Osborne v. Florida,164, U. S. 650. This construction and
interpretation is binding upon this court. Elmendorf v.
Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Quong Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial
Accident Commission, supra.
The gathering, running and transporting of oil from
wells to delivery points in West Virginia, not tendered for

EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. v. HALLANAN. 269
265.

Opinion of the Court.

shipment but held subject to the order of the owner, is an
intrastate service. Until the oil is tendered for shipment,
the plaintiff's relation thereto is that of bailee, not carrier- Not being committed to interstate commerce, it is
subject to taxation by the State to the owners thereof until committed to such commerce. The essential character
of the transaction, and not the purpose or mental state of
the owners, determines whether state or national law applies. New York Central R. R. Co. v. Mohney, 252 U. S.
152; McCluskey v. Marysville & Northern Ry. Co., 243
U. S. 36; Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
Co., 249 U. S. 134; General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S.
211; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204
U. S. 403; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517.
The business of plaintiff under consideration is intrastate, and was so regarded and treated by it. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 20, is controlling.
[Distinguishing many of the cases relied on by plaintiff in
error.]
MR. JusTicE Hor Es delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to prevent the enforcement against the
plaintiff of a statute of West Virginia that forbids engaging in the business of transporting petroleum in pipe lines
without the payment of a tax of two cents for each barrel
of oil transported. Acts of 1919, Extraordinary Session,
c. 5. It is set up that the statute is contrary to the Constitution of the United States in several ways, one of these
being that as applied to the plaintiff it imposes a tax upon
commerce among the States. The plaintiff owns a system
of pipe lines in West Virginia connecting with other pipe
lines in Ohio and Kentucky on the west and in Pennsylvania on the east of the State. Through the plaintiff's
pipes oil flows in a continuous stream to the state line and
beyond-in all amounting to over twenty-two million
barrels in the year ending June 30, 1919. There are four

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

grades of the oil thus moved. Two of these axe produced
partly in West Virginia. According to the figures accepted
by the defendants in error, out of a total 9,076,599.83 barrels of the Pennsylvania grade 6,510,081.51 barrels came
from this State, upon over six millions of which the
plaintiff made a charge of twenty, later thirty, cents for
gathering, on an interstate tariff and also under a local
statute. But all the oil of the same grade was mixed,
regardless of source, and of the Pennsylvania grade only
1,239,099.55 barrels were used in West Virginia. It is
admitted that the tax may be levied in respect of the
last item, but the question before us is whether the tax
can be laid upon the whole product of the State upon
which was imposed the gathering charge.
The Circuit Court of the State held that the statute
was void. The Supreme Court of Appeals sustained it so
far as the oil produced in West Virginia was concerned.
But as the Court declared that the act should be construed
to apply only to commerce within the State it is urged
that there is no jurisdiction here of the writ of error because there is no question as to the validity of a statute
so limited. The plaintiff in error also applied for a writ
of certiorari so that the objection would be immaterial
were we not required to determine upon which proceeding
the decree should issue. In view of that necessity we dispose of the matter before going further. Upon the
declaration of the Court we may conjecture that if it had
considered that the oil in question moved in interstate
commerce it would have agreed with the Court below, and
on this ground it is argued that the mistake, if any, was
not in approving the statute but in the Court's conception
of interstate commerce. But we must look at what the
Court has done, not at its mode of reaching the result.
What it has done is to decide that the statute covers all
the oil produced in West Virginia and that .it shall be
upheld in so doing. The nature of the mistake that in-

EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. v. HALLANAN. 271
265.

Opinion of the Court.

duced the act is immaterial. A case would not be withdrawn from the jurisdiction of this Court in error by a
declaration that a statute was addressed only to intrastate
commerce if it was applied wholesale to freight passing
across the continent. The fact that the error was less does
not affect the principle involved. But furthermore the
Court only confined the statute to intrastate commerce
" as above defined," that is, to commerce that embraced
what the plaintiff carried on.
We return to the facts affecting the merits. When oil
is received from the producer he receives a credit on the
books of the plaintiff pipe line, and thereafter is charged
for storage, as it is called, the plaintiff being required by
the laws of West Virginia to keep enough oil in its tanks
and pipes to satisfy such credits. Code, 1913, ยง 3564.
If the producer desires to deliver oil outside the State it
hands to the pipe line company what is called a tender of
shipment for so many barrels of the specified kind of oil,
naming the consignee, and expressed to be subject to an
identified tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. This is said to be a joint tariff in which the
connecting carriers share, but they do not share in the
twenty or thirty cents charged for gathering the oil. The
argument for the defendants in error of course is that the
producer is free to sell within or without the State and
that the movement of gathering having taken place before
any order is given and while the producer still can do
as he likes, it must be regarded as intrastate.
It does not seem to matter for the question before us,
whether the delivery to the pipe line be regarded as making it the owner of what it receives and a debtor for the
amounts, as in the case of a bank, or as akin to those transactions that are held to make the recipient a bailee of the
mingled mass and the bailors tenants in common, as
seems to have been assumed. Whether debtor or bailee
the pipe line controls the movement of any specific oil in

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

its hands and the bailor assents to its doing so. The
bailor assents to its becoming part of a stream that is
pouring through and out of the State. Its only right is
to call on the pipe line to divert a portion of that stream.
So far as the oil that it calls for goes out of the State
with the general current it seems to us not to be distinguishable from the rest admitted to move in interstate
commerce. No bailor has title to any specific oil, and to
deny the character of interstate commerce to the whole
stream simply because some one might have called for a
delivery that probably would have been made from it in
an event that did not happen, is going too far. The
charges for gathering and storage seem to us not to affect
the case. The storage merely means that enough oil must
be kept in the tanks and pipes to satisfy credits. The
oil runs into a tank on one side and out on the other.
The tank may be regarded as a pipe of larger size.
Whether the plaintiff in error was right or wrong in
relying upon state law for its gathering charge its attitude
does not matter here.
As has been repeated many times, interstate commerce
is a practical conception, and, as remarked by the court of
first instance, a tax to be valid "must not in its practical
effect and operation burden interstate commerce!' It
appears to us as a practical matter that the transmission
of this stream of oil was interstate commerce from the
beginning of the flow, and that it was none the less so
that if different orders had been received by the pipe
line it would have changed the destination upon which
the oil was started and at which it in fact arrived. We
repeat that the pipe line company not the producer was
the master of the destination of any specific oil. Therefore its intent and action determined the character of the
movement from its beginning, and neither the intent nor
the direction of the movement changed.
Decree reversed.
Writ of certioraridenied.

EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. v. HALLANAN. 273
265.

CLARx, J., dissenting.

MR. JusTICE CLARKu, dissenting.
I greatly regret that I cannot concur in the opinion and
judgment of the court in this case, and I think it is my
duty to state briefly as I may the grounds of my dissent.
The Eureka Pipe Line Company is a West Virginia
corporation, owning pipe lines which are wholly within
that State. Of the twenty-two and a half millions of
barrels of oil which the company transported in the year
in controversy, ending July 1, 1919, six and one-half
millions of barrels were produced in West Virginia and
the remainder came from other southern and western
States. Of that produced in West Virginia, one and onequarter millions of barrels were delivered to refineries in
that State, and the balance was delivered to connecting
carriers, at the state line, for interstate transportation.
There is no controversy as to the oil from other States or
as.to the state-produced oil that was delivered to refineries
in the State; but to the holding of the court that the
state-produced oil, which ultimately went out of the State,
moved in interstate commerce from the time it left the
wells, I cannot agree.
The company owns about forty-three hundred miles of
pipe line in West Virginia, all of which, with the exception of a few hundred miles of main or trunk line, is used
for the purpose of "gathering" oil from twenty-seven
counties of the State,-it covers them as with a network.
The admitted method of doing business was as follows:
When the oil was delivered by the producer to the company, it issued to him what is called a " credit balance,"
which was a paper reciting that he had credit on its books
for the designated number of barrels of oil and it contained a blank for the entry of " storage charges." The
oil thus delivered moved to some one of several points on
the main lines of the company, all within the State and
designated in the record as "central points," or " delivery

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
CILARK, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

points," or "tariff points." This movement of the oil
was under a tariff filed by the company with the State
Public Service Commission, which, in the year under discussion, read:
"Local Tariff. The rates named in this tariff are for
intrastatetransportation of crude petroleum."
"For gathering and transporting oil from wells to delivery points within the State of West Virginia, .20 cents.
Storage; per day, 1/40th cent."
Thus, by the contract between the parties, the oil was
received for transportation to points within the State
only. No consignee or destination was named, but, on
the contrary, a charge was provided for indefinite storage,
which the record shows was often paid, and the parties
united in calling this part of the transportation a "Local
and an intra-state shipment."
Further, in order to give the oil any intrastate delivery the owner was required to issue to the company a
paper called a "delivery order," but, if he wished it to
move in interstate commerce he must deliver to the company an entirely different order called a "tender of shipment," which was a paper naming a place of delivery
outside the State and reciting that the transportation
should be under a designated interstate tariff.
All transportation of the oil before the issuing of the
"tender of shipment" was under the local tariff described. It was not released for transportation or delivery of any kind, either state or interstate, until a
"delivery order" or a "tender of shipment" was delivered to the company by the owner and when the latter
was delivered the oil moved thereafter under the terms
of another, a joint interstate tariff, filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission at Washington by the
Eureka Company, in conjunction with other companies
owning lines connecting with its mains at the state
line.

EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. v. HALLANAN. 275
265.

CLRE, J., dissenting.

To this we must add that, as a West Virginia corporation, the Eureka Company was subject to the statute of
that State, requiring that any company engaged in the
transportation of petroleum in the State shall not in any
manner ship or transport, or permit to be shipped or
transported, or in any manner remove from the tanks or
pipe lines of such company, any petroleum without a
written order (a " delivery order" for intrastate, or a
"tender of shipment" for interstate, delivery); and also
that every such company "shall at all times have in their
pipes and tanks an amount of merchantable oil equal to
the aggregate of outstanding . . . credit balances, on
the books thereof."
If this were all there was in the transaction, plainly the
oil could not be considered as moving in interstate commerce until a " tender of shipment" was issued, for until
that time it was without a consignee or destination and
was held under a local tariff, providing a rate of twenty
cents per barrel for intrastate transportation, and a charge
for storage.
But the court concludes that this plainly intrastate
shipment is converted into an interstate shipment by a
single circumstance, viz: that when the oil, thus moving
under a local tariff for a local charge, reached the trunk
line, if that line happ~hed to be "running " oil of the
same kind and quality, the local oil was turned into the
main and was at once moved out of the State, even though
a " tender of shipment " may not have been issued to
release it and give it destination. It is to be noted, however, that if the company was not "running" oil of the
like kind and quality when the local oil reached the trunk
line, it was held at the junction (tariff point) until like
oil was to be "run " again, when it was sent forward.
This may have been for a day or for two weeks.
This circumstance, that the oil became under these
conditions a "part of a stream that is pouring through

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
CLAKx,

J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

and out of the State," it is held, gave the shipment an
interstate character from the moment it left the wells.
This holding is adopted, says the court, as a "practical
conception" of the matter, but it is precisely because it
seems to me a too highly technical conception to find
place in the world of practical business, that I dissent
from such a conclusion. It is true that the physical oil
moved, as stated, out of the State, but its removal without a tender of shipment caused no reduction whatever
in the volume of like oil in the State; that volume, by
the statute, by the contract of the parties and by the
tariff filed by the company, must continue undiminished
to meet all outstanding "credit balances" and the evidence of the assistant superintendent of the company is
that this requirement was constantly complied with. The
conclusion of the court, therefore, allows the mere business convenience of the company (it saves storage tankage) to convert into interstate commerce that which all
the parties, by their contract and conduct treated, and
charged and paid for, as an intrastate transportation, and
thereby subordinates, in my judgment, the substance to
the merest form of the transaction.
Believing, as I do, that this transporting of oil over
approximately four thousand miles of "gathering" lines
in the State to the trunk lines, was a local shipment, as
the parties all declared it to be, I think the State should
be permitted to impose a reasonable license or occupation
tax upon the company engaged in such extensive state
activity, measured by the volume of such traffic, and that
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West
Virginia restraining the statute to this scope should be
affirmed.
For the reasons stated in the dissenting opinion of Mr.
Justice Brandeis in No. 30 of this term, Dahnke-Waler
Miling Co. v. Bondurant, post, 282, I think this case is
subject to review in this court only upon writ of certiorari,

UNITED FUEL GAS CO. v. HALLANAN.
265.

277

Statement of the Case.

and that, therefore, the motion to dismiss the writ of
error should have been granted, but it has seemed to me
important to discuss, as I have done, the question of interstate commerce involved.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JUSTICE BPA

BIS join in

this opinion as to the merits of the controversy. MR.
JUSTICE BRANDEIS also concurs as to the question of

jurisdiction.

UNITED FUEL GAS COMPANY v. HALLANAN,
STATE TAX COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 276. Argued November 9, 10, 1921.-Decided December 12,
1921.
1. A writ of error sustained, following Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, ante, 265. P. 280.
2. Natural gas, collected and purchased by a pipe line company within
a State and moving through its pipes, and the pipes of other companies to which it sells it, in continuous streams destined beyond
the State, is a subject of interstate commerce, the transportation of
which the State may not tax. P. 280.
3. Held, that the interstate character of the gas so destined was not
affected by the right of transporting companies to divert to local
destinations, or by the fact that smaller quantities for local delivery
were commingled with the other and the proportions between the
two were not precisely fixed. P. 281.
87 W. Va. 396, reversed; petition for certiorari dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment sustaining a tax in a suit by the
plaintiff in error to restrain its enforcement. See the preceding case, ante, 265.

