312

OCTOBIt TERM, 1021.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

TRUAX ET AL., COPARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS
UNDER THE FIRM NAME AND STYLE OF
WILLIAM TRUAX, v. CORRIGAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.

No. 13. Argued April 29, 30, 1920; restored to docket for reargument June 6, 1921; reargued October 5, 6, 1921.-Decided December 19, 1921.
1. Where the issue is whether a state statute, in its application to
facts specifically alleged, and admitted by demurrer, violates the
plaintiff's rights under the Constitution, this court must analyze
the facts as averred and'draw its own inferences as to their ultimate.effect; it is not bound by the state court's conclusion in
this regard, nor by that court's declaration that the statute is
merely a rule of evidence. P. 324.
2. The bill showed in substance that the defendants, for the purpose of winning a strike called by the defendant labor union
over terms and conditions of employment in plaintiffs' restaurant,
conspired t injure or destroy the business by inducing actual
and prospective customers to withhold their patronage, and to
that end caused the restaurant to be picketed by men who,
throughout business hours, were stationed at the entrance proclaiming in a loud voice its " unfairness" to union labor, and
who patrolled the sidewalk before it and, by word of mouth
and through banners and handbills, made and circulated abusive
and libelous attacks upon the plaintiffs, their business, their
employees and customers, with threats of like consequences to
future customers; and that much injury to the business resulted.
Held, that the bill stated a plain case of conspiracy and actionable
wrong. P. 327.
3. If, as it seems to have been interpreted by the Supreme Court
of Arizona, the law of that State (Rev. Stats., 1913, par. 1464)
regulating injunctions in labor controversies, grants the defendants
in this case immunity from any civil or criminal action for the
"wrongs above stated, or leaves them merely subject to criminal
prosecution for libel, it violates the Fourteenth Amendment by
*depriving the plaintiffs of their property without due process of
law. P. 328.
4. The legislative power of a State can only be exerted in subordination to the fundamental principles of right and justice which

TRUAX v. COIRIGAX.
312.

Syllabus.

the guaranty of due process in the Fourteenth Amendment is
intended to preserve, and a purely arbitrary or capricious exercise
of that power, whereby a wrongful and highly injurious invasion
of property rights is practically sanctioned and the owner stripped
of all real remedy, is wholly at variance with those principles.
P. 329. New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188,
distinguished.
5. The distinction between peaceful secondary boycotts and the
present case, considered. P. 330.
6. The relations of the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment, considered. P. 331.
7. The equal protection clause was aimed at undue favor and individual or class privilege, on the one hand, and at hostile discrimination or the oppression of inequality on the other; it secures
equality of protection not only for all, but against all, similarly
situated; it is a pledge of the protection of equal laws. P. 332.
8. Assuming that a state legislature may vary equitable relief in
the state courts at its discretion, and even take away their equity
jurisdiction altogether, the equality clause forbids that it deny
such relief to one man while granting it to another under like
circumstances and in the same territorial jurisdiction. P. 334.
9. A state law which specially exempts ex-employees, when committing tortious and irreparable injury to the business of their
former employer, from restraint by injunction, while leaving
subject to such restraint all other tort-feasors engaged in like
wrong-doing, is unreasonable and without any just relation to
the acts in respect of which it is proposed. P. 337.
10. Such a classification cannot be upheld as a legalized experiment
in sociology; the very purpose of the Constitution was to prevent
experimentation with the fundamental rights of the individual.
P. 338. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, supra, and similar cases, distinguished.
11. In view of the construction placed by the state court upon
Ai. Rev. Stats., 1913, par. 1464, in this case, and because the
equal protection clause applies only to state action, the conclusion that the statute is in part unconstitutional does not mean
that § 20 of the Clayton Act, an act of Congress similarly worded
but very differently construed, is also invalid. P. 340. Cf. American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades Council, ante, 184.
12. Paragraph 1456, Ariz. Rev. Stats., 1913, making general provision for issuance of injunctions, is separable from par. 1464,
supra, having been adopted by the Territory and continued by

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

257 U. S.

the state constitution as a state law before par. 1464 was enacted
as an amendment, and the unconstitutionality of the latter does
not affect the continued operation of the former. P. 341. Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, distinguished.
20 Ariz. 7, reversed.

ERROR to review a decree of the Supreme Court of
Arizona, which affirmed a decree of the Superior Court
of Cochise County dismissing upon demurrer the complaint of the present plaintiffs in error in their suit
to restrain the defendants from committing the acts
described in the opinion.
Mr. Clifton Mathews, with whom Mr. Everett E. Ellinwood and Mr. John Mason Ross were on the -briefs, for
plaintiffs in error.
The acts and conduct of defendants constitute a
secondary boycott. Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, and many other cases.
This very fact of picketing is in itself sufficient to show
the coercive charicter of the means employed. Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Gee, 139 Fed. 582; Vonnegut. Machinery Co. v. Tolddo Machine Co., 263 Fed.
192; Local Union No. 313 v. Stathakis, 135 Ark. 86;
Pierce v. Stablemen's Union, 156 Cal. 70; Rosenberg v.
Retail Clerks' Association, 39 Cal. App. 67; Barnes &
Co. v. Chicago Typographical Union, 232 Ill. 424; Sherry
v. Perkins, 147 Mass. 212; Beck v. Railway Teamsters'
Protective Union, 118 Mich. 497; Webb v. Cooks' &c.
Union, 205 S. W. 465; St. Germain v. Bakery & Confectionery Workers' Union, 97 Wash. 282.
The word "unfair," when used under the circumstances
set forth in the complaint, is, in effect, a notification to
the public that the place or person declared "unfair" is
being boycotted by organized labor, and that anyone who
continues dealing with the boycotted person will thereby
incur the enmity of labor organizations generally, and
will be likely to suffer some form of retaliation at their

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

hands. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S.
418; Seattle Brewing Co. v. Hansen, 144 Fed. 1011. See
also American Federation of Labor v. Buck's Stove &
Range Co., 33 App. D. C. 83; Wilson v. Hey, 232 Ill. 389.
The printed handbills are scurrilous and abusive and
convey a threat of injury to plaintiffs' customers. The
vagueness of the threat only renders it the more effective.
Casey v. Cincinnati Typographical Union, 45 Fed. 135;
Seattle Brewing Co. v. Hansen, 144 Fed. 1011; Rocky
Mountain Bell Telephone Co. v. Montana Federationof
Labor, 156 Fed. 809; My Maryland Lodge v. Adt, 100
Md. 238; Beck v. Railway Teamsters' Union, 118 Mich.
497.
But for the statute in question, the boycott could have
been enjoined. The courts of this country, both state
and federal, are practically unanimous in holding that
a secondary boycott, as here exemplified, is wrongful and
unlawful. [Citing many authorities.]
The writ of injunction has not been abolished in
Arizona, but, on the contrary, it has been expressly
recognized and provided for by statute. Rev. Stats.
Arizona, 1913, par. 1456. The issuance of injunctions
under this statute is a matter of daily occurrence. The
only requirement is that the applicant must show himself entitled thereto under the principles of equity.
In depriving plaintiffs of the right to enjoin the boycott
while leaving the remedy by injunction still available to
other litigants, the statute denies plaintiffs the equal
protection of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. As construed by the Arizona Supreme Court, it
discriminates against plaintiffs, (1) by reason of the class
to which they belong, and (2) by reason of the class to
which their property belongs.
By these classifications, a remedy freely granted to
one person is withheld from another, though they both

816

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

257U.S.

stand in the same situation. The right sought to be
protected, the wrong sought to be prevented, the remedy
sought to be applied, the propriety of the remedy, the
urgency of the need, the form of the action, the pleadings, the proofs--all the facts and all the equities-may
be the same in the one case as in the other; and yet the
remedy which the court grants to the one applicant
must be withheld from the other, simply because of the
accidental and wholly irrelevant circumstance that this
applicant once employed the wrong-doers, and had a
disagreement with them concerning the terms and conditions of their employment and that the wrong is being
committed because of that disagreement;. coupled with
the further accidental and irrelevant fact that the property which the applicant seeks to protect is not of a
tangible character, but consists merely of his business
and of his right to conduct that business in such lawful
manner as he sees fit.
Is not this as arbitrary and capricious, as unreasonable
and oppressive, as if the statute had said that injunctions
should be granted to white men and withheld from colored
men, or granted to Protestants and withheld from Catholics, or granted to Democrats and withheld from Republicans? Might it not as well have said that injunctions
should issue to protect real estate, but not personal property, or to protect brick houses, but not wooden houses,
or to protect houses situated on even-numbered lots, but
not those on odd-numbered lots? Can it be said that the
distinction upon which the classification is based bears
any reasonable or just relation to the thing in respect to
which the classification is imposed?
Thanks to the good sense and fair-mindedness of legislatures generally, attempts to deny this right of equal
access to the courts have been comparatively few and
infrequent. Examples, however, have not been wanting.
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; John-

TRUAX v. CORRITAN.
312.

317

Argument for Defendants in Error.

son v. Goodyear Mining Co., 127 Cal. 4; Black v. Seal,
6 Eoust. 541; Hecker v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 231
I1. 574; Green v. Red Cross Medical Service Co., 232
Ill. 616; Zolnowski v. Illinois Steel Co., 233 Il. 299;
Reinhardt v. Chicago Junction Ry. Co., 235 Ill. 576;
Funkhouser v. Randolph, 287 111. 94; Cincinnati&c. Ry.
Co. v. Clark, 11 Ky. Law Rep. 286; German Insurance
Co. v. Miller, 12 Ky. Law Rep. 138; Pearsonv. Portland,
69 Me. 278; Opinion of Justices, 211 Mass. 618; Boghi
v. Perotti, 224 Mass. 152; In re Flukes, 157 Mo. 125;
McClung'v. Pulitzer Publishing Co., 279 Mo. 370; Hargraves Mills v. Harden,56 N. Y. S. 937; Rosin v. Lidgerwood Mfg. Co., 86 N. Y. S. 49; Wally's Heirs v. Kennedy,
2 Yerg. 554; Phipps v. Wisconsin Central Ry. Co., 133
Wis. f53; Kiley v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 138 Wis. 215;
State v. Wisconsin-Minnesota Light Co., 165 Wis. 430.
Of all these cases, the one which most nearly resembles
the case at bar is that of Bogni v. Perotti.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. Stanley D.
Willis, Mr. Wiley E. Jones and Mr. Samuel Herrick were
on the briefs, for defendants in error."
The issue presented is, whether peaceable persuasion
by circulars, banners and word of mouth is intrinsically
unlawful, and by its very existence unlawfully takes
away some property or property rights of plaintiffs.
While the question has been largely discussed in picketing cases, yet, analyzing this situation, the picketing is
purely incidental-a means adopted to inform the public
that plaintiffs' establishment was deemed unfair. This
picketing can not be regarded in any other light, because
no state or municipal law has been violated, and the
ingress and egress of customers has not been interfered
with.
'At the first hearing the case was argued by Mr. Ralston and
Mr. Herrick, for defendants in error.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

257 U. S.

We deny that the plaintiffs possess any such absolute
good will as against the defendants that it may be called
property. Good will, which is property, is something
which ordinarily arises out of contract. Wherever it is
said to be infringed, and no contract relations have been
shown to exist, such statement is made because some law
has been violated, upon the observance of which the
complaiiiing party had a right to rely; or some public
nuisance exists from which the plaintiff has suffered
special damages. The thing which the courts protect in
such cases is not good will in any usual sense of the term,
but a man's fair right to obtain a livelihood.
In the present instance, there is no contract relation
of good will; there is no right to appeal to a court of
equity except it be that by some means considered by
the law improper under all the circumstances the defendants have injured or destroyed plaintiffs' opportunity to
gain a livelihood. This they have not done by the violation of any law, by the creation of any nuisance or in
any manner save one-communication to the public of
the fact that plaintiffs' establishment is "unfair" to
organized labor. This statement, as appears from the
bill, is an entirely truthful one, and the defendants had
an interest in making it known to the public. Hence, the
work of the union did not constitute a gratuitous attempt
to interfere with the plaintiffs' business.
We admit that, even though these objects are generally
recognized as sufficient to justify such action on the part
of unions, yet, if coupled with wantonness or disorder,
or creating a public nuisance, which especially affects the
employer, he may appeal, to a court of equity. But in
the absence of wantonness or libel, which are not charged
here, the defendants have an absolute right of free
speech, which extends, likewise, to freedom of publication. Such rights are more sacred than are rights to
conduct business.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The provision of the Arizona statute under consideration strongly resembles § 20 of the Clayton Act. Though
§§ 6 and 20 of the Clayton Act have been before the
federal courts on many occasions, it has never been suggested that that act was unconstitutional or deprived
anyone of property or of a property right. See on this
point, and also on the general proposition regarding
picketing: Alaska S. S. Co. v. International Longshoremen's Association, 236 Fed. 964; Tri-City Central Trades
Council v. American Steel Foundries, 238 Fed. 728
[s. c., ante, 184]; Stephens v. Ohio State Telephone Co.,
240 Fed. 759; Puget Sound Traction Co. v. Whitley, 243
Fed. 945; Kroger Grocery Co. v. Retail Clerks' Association, 250 Fed. 890; Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering,
247 Fed. 192; 252 Fed. 722; Kinloch Telephone Co. v.
Local Union ATo. 2, 265 Fed. 312. In neither Hitchman
Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, nor Paine
Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S. 459, was there any suggestion that the labor provisions of the Clayton Act were
invalid.
Peaceful picketing such as has been indulged in by
the defendants has many times been declared entirely
lawful. [Citing many cases.]
From a consideration of these cases, it is clear that
in no single instance has any court, state or federal,
declared such legislation as the Arizona statute and the
Clayton Act to be unconstitutional. On the contrary,
they have recognized the right of the legislature to do
away with proceedings by injunction, leaving to the law
court determination of the question of the infliction of
real and unlawful damage.
The plaintiffs seek to confuse peaceful picketing with
the general subject of boycotting, with which it has but
an incidental relation. Their argument for the most
part begs the real question in the case,-the character,
lawful or unlawful, of the defendants' action. The cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

relied on by plaintiffs are inapplicable here. The unlawful means referred to in nearly all of them are threats
of personal damage leveled at the person addressed, violence, coercion and intimidation, none of which elements
is set out in the bill in this case.
The Arizona statute does not hold in favor of any particular class, or against any other particular class, but
makes a provision as to "any case between an employer
and employees, or between employers and employees, or
between employees, or between persons employed and
persons seeking employment." A broader classification
could hardly be conceived, as nearly the entire human
race can be grouped under the words "employers and
employees." Goldberg, Bowen & Co. v. Stablemenis
Union, 149 Cal. 429; Opinion of the Justices, 211 Mass.
618; and Bogni v. Perotti,224 Mass. 152, are distinguishable.
The right of the State to make classifications is a very
broad one and is to be interfered with only upon a clear
showing that it resulted in denying the equal protection
of the laws. Singer §ewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233
U. S. 304; International Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234
U. S. 199. Certainly the discrimination alleged in the
present case is no greater than that in the laws held by
this court to be not unconstitutional in the two last cited
cases.
MR. CHm

JusTIcE

T xv delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below, and
will be so called, own, maintain and operate, on Main
Street, in the City of Bisbee, Arizona, a restaurant, known
as the "English Kitchen." The defendants are cooks and
waiters formerly in the employ of the plaintiffs, together
with the labor union and the trades asembly of which

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

they were members. All parties are residents of the State
of Arizona.
The complaint set out the following case:
In April, 1916, a dispute arose between the plaintiffs
and the defendants' union concerning the terms and conditions of employment of the members of the union. The
plaintiffs refused to yield to the terms of the union, which
thereupon ordered a strike of those of its members who
were in plaintiffs' employ. To win the strike and to coerce
and compel the plaintiffs to comply with the demands of
the union, the defendants and others unknown to the
plaintiffs entered into a conspiracy and boycott to injure
plaintiffs in their restaurant and restaurant business, by
inducing plaintiffs' customers and others theretofore well
and favorably disposed, to cease to patronize or trade with
the plaintiffs. The method of inducing was set out at
length and included picketing, displaying banners, advertising the strike, denouncing plaintiffs as "unfair" to the
union and appealing to customers to stay away from the
"English Kitchen," and the circulation of handbills containing abusive and libelous charges against plaintiffs,
their employees and their patrons, and intimations of
injury to future patrons. Copies of the handbills were set
forth in exhibits made part of the complaint.
In consequence of defendants' acts, many customers
were induced to cease from patronizing plaintiffs, and
their daily receipts, which had been in excess of the sum
of $156 were reduced to $75. The complaint averred that
if the acts were continued, the business would be entirely
destroyed, and that the plaintiffs would suffer great and
irreparable injury; that for the plaintiffs to seek to recover
damages would involve a multiplicity of suits; that all
the defendants were insolvent, and would be unable to
respond in damages for any injury resulting from their
acts and the plaintiffs were therefore without any adequate remedy at law.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The complaint further averred that the defendants wer,!
relying for immunity on Paragraph 1464 of the Revised
Statutes of Arizona, 1913, which is in part as follows:
"No restraining order or injunction shall be granted by
any court of this state, or a judge or the judges thereof, in
any case between an employer and employees, or between
employers and employees, or between employees, or between persons employed and persons seeking employment,
involving or growing out of a dispute concerning terms or
conditions of employment, unless necessary to prevent
irreparable injury to property or to a property right of the
party making the application, for which injury there is no
adequate remedy at law, and such property or property
right must be described with particularity in the application, which must be in writing and sworn to by the
applicant or by his agent or attorney.
"And no such restraining order or injunction shall prohibit any person or persons from terminating any relation
of employment, or from ceasing to perform any work or
labor, or from recommending, advising, or persuading
others by peaceful means so to do; or from attending ai
or near a house or place where any person resides or
works, or carries on business, or happens to be for the
purpose of peacefully obtaining or communicating information, or of peacefully persuading any person to work
or to abstain from working; or from ceasing to patronize
or to employ any party to such dispute; or from recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful
means so to do;

.

.

The plaintiffs alleged that this paragraph if it made
lawful defendants' acts contravened the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States by
depriving plaintiffs of their property without due process
of law, and by denying to plaintiffs the equal protection
of the laws, and was, therefore, void and of no effect.
Upon the case thus stated the plaintiffs asked a temporary, and a permanent, injunction.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants filed a demurrer, on two grounds: First,
that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, in 'that the property rights asserted therein were not, under Paragraph 1464, Revised
Statutes of Arizona, 1913, of such character that their
irreparable injury might be enjoined, and secondly, that
upon its face the complaint showed a want of equity.
The Superior Court for Cochise County sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the complaint, and this judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Arizona.
The ruling of the Supreme Court proceeded first on the
assumption that the gravamen of the complaint was that
the defendants were merely inducing patrons to cease
their patronage by making public the fact of the dispute
and the attitude of plaintiffs in it, and, secondly, on the
proposition that, while good will is a valuable factor in
business success, "no man
. . has a vested property right in the esteem of the public," that, while the
plaintiff had a clear right to refuse the demand of the
union, the union had a right to advertise the cause of the
strike. The court held that the purpose of Paragraph
1464 was to recognize the right of workmen on a strike to
use peaceable means to accomplish the lawful ends for
which the strike was called; that picketing, if peaceably
carried on for a lawful purpose, was no violation of the
rights of the person whose place of business was picketed;
that, prior to the enactment of Paragraph 1464, picketing
was unlawful in Arizona because it was presumed to induce breaches of the peace, but that plaintiffs had no
vested right to have such a rule of law continue in that
State; that under Paragraph 1464 picketing was no longer
conclusively presumed to be unlawful; that the paragraph
simply dealt with a rule of evidence requiring the courts
to substitute evidence of the nature of the act for the
presumption otherwise arising; that the plaintiffs' property rights were not invaded by picketing unless the

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U.S.

picketing interfered with the free conduct of the business; that plaintiffs did not claim that defendants had by
violent means invaded their rights, and that if that kind
of picketing were charged and established by proof plaintiffs would be entitled to relief to the extent of prohibiting
violence in any form.
The effect of this ruling is that, under the statute, loss
may be inflicted upon the plaintiffs' property and business
by "picketing" in any form if violence be not used, and
that, because no violence was shown or claimed, the campaign carried on, as described in the complaint and exhibits, did not unlawfully invade complainants' rights.
The facts alleged are admitted by the demurrer, and in
determining their legal effect as a deprivation of plaintiffs'
legal rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, we are at
as full liberty to consider them as was the State Supreme
Court. Mackay v. Dillon,4 How. 421; Dower v. Richards,
151 U. S.658, 667. Nor does the court's declaration that
the statute is a rule of evidence bind us in such an investigation. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S.219, 238, 239; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134
U. S,418; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623, 661; Corn
Products Refining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S.427, 432. In
cases brought to this court from state courts for review,
on the ground that a federal right set up in the state court
has been wrongly denied, and in which the state court has
puf its decision on a finding that the asserted federal right
has no basis in point of fact or has been waived or lost,
this court as an incident of its power to determine whether
a federal right has been wrongly denied, may go behind
the finding to see whether it is without substantial support. If the rule were otherwise, it almost always would
be within the power of a state court practically to prevent a review here. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S.573, 591, 593; Cedar
Rapids Gas Light Co. v. CedarRapids, 223 U. S. 655, 668,

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

669; Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611.
Another class of cases in which this court will review the
finding of the court as to the facts is when the conclusion
of law and findings of fact are so intermingled as to make
it necessary, in order to pass upon the question to analyze
the facts. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. NorthDakota,236
U. S. 585, 593; Jones National Bank v. Yates, 240 U. S.
541, 552, 553. In view of these decisions a.nd the grounds
upon which they proceed, it is clear that in a case like the
present, where the issue is whether a state statute in its
application to facts which are set out in detail in the
pleadings and are admitted by demurrer, violates the Federal Constitution, this court must analyze the facts as
averred and draw its own inferences as to their ultimate
effect, and is not bound by the conclusion of the State
Supreme Court in this regard. The only respect in such a
case in which this court is bound by the judgment of the
State Supreme Court is in the construction which that
court puts upon the statute.
The complaint and its exhibits make this case:
The defendants conspired to injure and destroy plaintiffs' business by inducing their theretofore willing patrons
and would-be patrons not to patronize them and they
influenced these to withdraw or withhold their patronage:
(1) By having the agents of the union walk forward
and back constantly during all the business hours in front
of plaintiffs' restaurant and within five feet thereof, displaying a banner announcing in large letters that the
restaurant was unfair to cooks and waiters and their
union.
(2) By having agents attend at or near the entrance of
the restaurant during all business hours and continuously
announce in a loud voice, audible for a great distance, that
the restaurant was unfair to the labor union.
(3) By characterizing the employees of the plaintiffs as
scab Mexican labor, and using opprobrious epithets con-

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

cerning them in handbills continuously distributed in
front of the restaurant to would-be customers.
(4) By applying in such handbills abusive epithets to
Truax, the senior member of plaintiffs' firm, and making
libelous charges against him, to the effect that he was
tyrannical with his help, and chased them down the street
with a butcher knife, that he broke his contract and repudiated his pledged word; that he had made attempts to
force cooks and waiters to return to work by attacks on
men and women; that a friend of Truax assaulted a
woman and pleaded guilty; that plaintiff was known by
his friends, and that Truax's treatment of his employees
was explained by his friend's assault; that he was a "bad
actor."
(5) By seeking to disparage plaintiffs' r'estaurant,
charging that the prices were higher and the food worse
than in any other restaurant, and that assaults and slugging were a regular part of the bill of fare, with police
indifferent.
(6) By attacking the character of those who did patronize, saying that their mental calibre and moral fibre fell
far below the American average, and enquiring of the
would-be patrons-Can you patronize such a place and
look the world in the face?
(7) By threats of similar injury to the would-be
patrons-by such expressions as "All ye who enter here
leave all hope behind." "Don't be a traitor to humanity "; by offering a reward for any of the ex-members
of the union caught eating in the restaurant; by saying
in the handbills: "We are also aware that handbills and
banners in front of a business house on the main street
give the town a bad name, but they are permanent institutions until William Truax agrees to the eight-hour day."
(8) By warning any person wishing to purchase the
business from the Truax firm that a donation would be
necessary, amount to be fixed by the District Trades As-

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

sembly, before the picketing and boycotting would be
given up.
The result of this campaign was to reduce the business
of the plaintiffs from more than $55,000 a year to one of
$12,000.
Plaintiffs' business is a property right (Duplex Printing
Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 465) and free access
for employees, owner and customers to his place of business is incident to such right. Intentional injury caused
to either right or both by a conspiracy is a tort. Concert
of action is a conspiracy if its object is unlawful or if the
means used are unlawful. Pettibonev. United States, 148
U. S. 197, 203; Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering,
supra. Intention to inflict the loss and the actual loss
caused are clear. The real question here is, were the
means used illegal? The above recital of what the defendants did, can leave no doubt of that. The libelous
attacks upon the plaintiffs, their business, their employees,
and their customers, and the abusive epithets applied to
them were palpable wrongs. They were uttered in aid of
the plan to induce plaintiffs' customers and would-be
customers to refrain from patronizing the plaintiffs. The
patrolling of defendants immediately in front of the restaurant on the main street and within five feet of plaintiffs' premises continuously during business hours, with
the banners announcing plaintiffs' unfairness; the attendance by the picketers at the entrance to the restaurant
and their insistent and loud appeals all day long, the constant circulation by them of the libels and epithets applied
to employees, plaintiffs and customers, and the threats of
injurious consequences to future customers, all linked together in a campaign, were an unlawful annoyance and a
hurtful nuisance in respect of the free access to the plaintiffs' place of business. It was not lawful persuasion or
inducing. It was not a mere appeal to the sympathetic
aid of would-be customers by a simple statement of the

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

fact of the strike and a request to withhold.patronage. It
was compelling every customer or would-be customer to
run the gauntlet of most uncomfortable publicity, aggressive and annoying importunity, libelous attacks and fear
of injurious consequences, illegally inflicted, to his reputation and standing in the community. No wonder that a
business of $50,000 was reduced to only one-fourth of its
former extent. Violence could not have been more effective. It was moral coercion by illegal annoyance and obstruction and it thus was plainly a conspiracy.
It would consume too great space to refer to the mass of
authority which sustains this conclusion. It is sufficient
to cite the general discussion of the subject in Gompers v.
Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U.S. 418,439. Well known
decisions on similar facts are Sherry v. Perkins, 147 Mass.
212; Barr v. Essex Trades Council, 53 N. J. Eq. 101;
Purvis v. Local No. 500, 214 Pa. St. 348; Wilson v. Hey,
232 Ill. 389; Casey v. CincinnatiTypographical Union, 45
Fed. 135; Pierce v. Stablemen's Union, 156 Cal. 70.
A law which operates to make lawful such a wrong as is
described in plaintiffs' complaint deprives the owner of
the business and the premises of his property without due
process, and can not be held valid under the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The opinion of the State Supreme Court in this case if
taken alone seems to show that the statute grants- complete immunity from any civil or criminal action to the
defendants, for it pronounces their acts lawful. If, however, we are to assume that the criminal laws of Arizona
do provide prosecution for such libels against the plaintiffs though committed by this particular class of tort
feasors, (Truax v. Bisbee Local No. 880,19 Ariz. 379), still
the tort here committed was not a mere libel of plaintiffs.
That would not have had any such serious consequences.
The libel of the plaintiffs here was not the cause of the

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

329

Opinion of the Court.

injury.; it was only one step or link in a conspiracy, unlawfully to influence customers.
It is argued that, while the right to conduct a lawful
business is property, the conditions surrounding that business, such as regulations of the State for maintaining
peace, good order, and protection against disorder, are
matters in which no person has a vested right. The conclusion to which this inevitably leads in this case is that
the State may withdraw all protection to a property right
by civil or criminal action for its wrongful injury if the
injury is not caused by violence. This doctrine is supposed to find support in the case of New York Central
R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 198, and cases there
cited. These cases, all of them, relate to the liabilities of
employers to employees growing out of the relation of employment for injuries received in the course of employment. They concern legislation as to the incidents of that
relation. They affirm the power of the State to vary the
rules of the common law as to the fellow servant doctrine,
assumption of risk, and negligence, in that relation. They
hold that employers have no vested right in those rules of
the common law. The broad distinction between one's
right to protection against a direct injury to one's fundamental property right by another who has no special relation to him, and one's liability to another with whom he
establishes a voluntary relation under a statute is manifest
upon its statement. It is true that no one has a vested
right in any particular rule of the common law, but it is
also true that the legislative power of a State can only be
exerted in subordination to the fundamental principles of
right and justice which the guaranty of due process in
the Fourteenth Amendment is intended to preserve, and
that a purely arbitrary or capricious exercise of that power
whereby a wrongful and highly injurious invasion of
property rights, as here, is practically sanctioned and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

owner stripped of all real remedy, is wholly at variance
with those principles.
It is to be observed that this is not the mere case of a
peaceful secondary boycott as to the illegality of which
courts have differed and States have adopted different
statutory provisions. A secondary boycott of this kind is
where many combine to injure one in his business by
coercing third persons against their will to cease patronizing him by threats of similar injury. In such a case the
many have a legal right to withdraw their trade from the
one, they have the legal right to withdraw their trade from
third persons, and they have the right to advise third persons of their intention to do so when each act is considered
singly. The question in such cases is whether the moral
coercion exercised over a stranger to the original controversy by steps in themselves legal becomes a legal wrong.
But here the illegality of the means used is without doubt
and fundamental. The means used are the libelous and
abusive attacks on the plaintiffs' reputation, like attacks
on their employees and customers, threats of such attacks
on would-be customers, picketing and patrolling of the
entrance to their place of business, and the consequent obstruction of free access thereto-all with the purpose of
depriving the plaintiffs of their business. To give operation to a statute whereby serious losses inflicted by such
unlawful means are in effect made remediless, is, we think,
to disregard fundamental rights of liberty and property
and to deprive the person suffering the loss of due process
of law.
If, however, contrary to the construction which we put
on the opinion of the Supreme Court of Arizona, it does
not withhold from the plaintiffs all remedy for the wrongs
they suffered but only the equitable relief of injunction,
there still remains the question whether they are thus
denied the equal protection of the laws.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

The Arizona constitution provides that the superior
court shall have jurisdiction in all cases of equity and,
in pursuance of this provision, Paragraph 1456 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona, 1913, declares:
"Judges of the superior courts may grant writs of injunction, returnable to said courts, in the following cases:
"1. Where it shall appear that the party applying for
such writ is entitled to the relief demanded, and such
relief or any part thereof requires the restraint of some
act prejudicial to the applicant.
"2. Where, pending litigation, it shall be made to appear that a party is doing some act respecting the subject
of litigation, or threatens, or is about to do some act, or is
procuring or suffering the same to be done, in violation of
the rights of the applicant, which act would tend to render
the judgment ineffectual.
"3. In all other cases where the applicant for such writ
may show himself entitled thereto under the principles of
equity."
The necessary effect of these provisions and of Paragraph 1464 is that the plaintiffs in error would have had
the right to an injunction against such a campaign as that
conducted by the defendants in error, if it had been directed against the plaintiffs' business and property in any
kind of a controversy which was not a dispute between
employer and former employees. If the competing restaurant keepers in Bisbee had inaugurated such a campaign against the plaintiffs in error and conducted it with
banners and handbills of a similar character, an injunction would necessarily have issued to protect the plaintiffs
in the enjoyment of their property and business.
This brings us to consider the effect in this case of that
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment which forbids
any State to deny to any person the equal protection of
the laws. The clause is associated in the Amendment

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

with the due process clause and it is customary to consider them together. It may be that they overlap, that a
violation of one may involve at times the violation of the
other, but the spheres of the protection they offer are not
coterminous. The due process clause, brought down from
Magna Charta, was found in the early state constitutions,
and later in the Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution as a limitation upon the executive, legislative
and judicial powers of the Federal Government, while the
equality clause does not appear in the Fifth Amendment
and so does not apply to congressional legislation. The
due process clause requires that every man shall have the
protection of his day in court, and the benefit of the general law, a law which hears before it condemns, which proceeds not arbitrarily or capriciously but upon inquiry, and
renders judgment only after trial, so that every citizen
shall hold his life, liberty, property and immunities under
the protection of the general rules which govern society.
Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 535. It, of course,
tends to secure equality of law in the sense that it makes
a required minimum of protection for every one's Tight of
life, liberty and property, which the Congress or the legislature may not withhold. Our whole system of law is
predicated on the general, fundamental principle of
equality of application of the law. "All men are equal
before the law," "This is a government of laws and not
of men," "No man is above the law," are all maxims
showing the spirit in which legislatures, executives and'
courts are expected to make, execute and apply laws. But
the framers and adopters of this Amendment were not
content to depend on a mere minimum secured by the
due process clause, or upon the spirit of equality which
might not be insisted on by local public opinion. They
therefore embodied that spirit in a specific guaranty.
The guaranty was aimed at undue favor and individual
or class privilege, on the one hand, and at hostile dis-

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

crimination or the oppression of inequality, on the other.
It sought an equality of treatment of all persons, even
though all enjoyed the protection of due process. Mr.
Justice Field, delivering the opinion of this court in Barbier v. Connoly, 113 U. S. 27, 32, of the equality clause,
said--" Class legislation, discriminating against some and
favoring others, is prohibited, but legislation which, in
carrying out a public purpose, is limited in its application,
if within the sphere of its operation it affects alike all
persons similarly situated, is not within the amendment."
In Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, the court speaking
through the same Justice said the Fourteenth Amendment "does not prohibit legislation which is limited either
in the objects to which it is directed, or by the territory
within which it is to operate. It merely requires that all
persons subjected to such legislation shall be treated alike,
under like circumstances and conditions, both in the
privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed." Thus
the guaranty was intended to secure equality of protection not only for all but against all similarly situated.
Indeed, protection is not protection unless it does so.
Immunity granted to a class, however limited, having the
effect to deprive another class, however limited, of a
personal or property right, is just as clearly a denial of
equal protection of the laws to the latter class as if the
immunity were in favor of, or the deprivation of right
permitted worked against, a larger class.
Mr. Justice Matthews, in Yic- Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356, 369, speaking for the court of both the due
process and the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, said:
"These provisions are universal in their application, to
all persons within the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of race, of color, or of nationality;
and the equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws."

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

The accuracy and comprehensive felicity of this description of the effect of the equality clause are shown by
the frequency with which it has been quoted in the decisions of this court. It emphasizes the additional
guaranty of a right which the clause has conferred beyond
the requirement of due process.
With these views of the meaning of the equality clause,
it does not seem possible to escape the conclusion that by
the clauses of Paragraph 1464 of the Revised Statutes of
Arizona, here relied on by the defendants, as construed by
its Supreme Court, the plaintiffs have been deprived of
the equal protection of the law.It is beside the point to say that plaintiffs had no vested
right in equity relief and that taking it away does not deprive them of due process of law. If, as is asserted, the
granting of equitable remedies falls within the police
power and is a matter which the legislature may vary as
its judgment and discretion shall dictate, this does not
meet the objection under the equality clause which forbids the granting of equitable relief to one man and the
denying of it to another under like circumstances and in
the same territorial jurisdiction. The Fourteenth Amendment, as this court said in Barbier v. Connolly, already
cited, intended "not only that there should be no arbitrary deprivation of life or liberty, or arbitrary spoliation
of property, but that equal protection and security should
be given to all under like circumstances in the enjoyment
of their personal and civil rights; that all persons should
be equally entitled to pursue their happiness and acquire
and enjoy property; that they should have like access to
the"courts of the country for the protection of their persons and property, the prevention and redress of wrongs,
and the enforcement of contracts; that no impediment
should be interposed to the pursuits of any one except as
applied to the same pursuits by others under like circumstances; that no greater burdens should be laid upon one

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

than are laid upon others in the same calling and condition, and that in the administration of criminal justice no
different or higher punishment should be imposed upon
one than such as is prescribed to all for like offences."
If, as claimed, the legislature has full discretion to
grant or withhold equitable relief in any class of cases,
indeed to take away from its courts all equity jurisdiction
and leave those who are wronged to suits at law or to
protection by the criminal law, the legislature has the
same power inrespect to the declaration of crimes. Suppose the legislature of the State were to provide that
such acts as were here committed by defendants, to wit,
the picketing or patrolling of the sidewalk and street in
front of the store or business house of any person and
the use of handbills of an abusive and libelous character
against the owner and present and future customers with
intent to injure the business of the owner, should be a
public nuisance and be punishable by fine and imprisonment, and were to except ex-employees from its penal provisions. Is it not clear that any defendant could escape
punishment under it on the ground that the statute
violated the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment? That is the necessary effect of Connoly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, where an anti-trust act was
held invalid under this same clause because it contained
the excepting provision that it should "not apply to
agricultural products or live stock while in the hands of
the producer or raiser." That was a stronger case than
this because there the whole statute was one dealing with
economic policy and was a declaration of maka prohibita
that had theretofore been lawful, from which it was
strongly argued that the exception was justified in the
interest of agriculture, and was a proper exception by
permissible classification. Here is a direct invasion of the
ordinary business and property rights of a person, unlawful when committed by any one, and remediable because

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

of its otherwise irreparable character by equitable process,
except when committed by ex-employees of the injured
person. If this is not a denial of the equal protection of
the laws, then it is hard to conceive what would be. To
hold it not to be, would be, to use the expression of Mr.
Justice Brewer in Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co.v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154, to make the guaranty of the
equality clause "a rope of sand."
In Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, we find one of the
earlier and one of the most helpful discussions of the application of the equality clause to judicial procedure by
Mr. Justice Bradley speaking for this court. In that case
one who had been disbarred by the Court of Appeals of
St. Louis sought to avoid the effect of this action by the
contention that he was denied the equal protection of the
laws because he was not given the right of appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, granted to litigants in the
State, except in St. Louis and three other counties. It
was held that the equality clause did not apply because
the state legislature had the right to vary the system of
courts and procedure in various parts of the State. Mr.
Justice Bradley said (p. 30):
"The last restriction, as to the equal protection of the
laws, is not violated by any diversity in the jurisdiction
of the several courts as to subject-matter, amount, or
finality of decision, if all persons within the territorial
limits of their respective jurisdictions have an equal right,
in like cases and under like circumstances, to resort to
them for redress." Again (p. 31):
"For, as before said, it [i. e., the equality clause] has
respect to persons and classes of persons. It means that
no person or class of persons shall be denied the same
protection of the laws which is enjoyed by other persons
or other classes in the same place and under like circumstances."
To sustain the distinction here between the ex-employees and other tort feasors in the matter of remedies

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

against them, it is contended that the legislature may
establish a class of such ex-employees for special legislative treatment. In adjusting legislation to the need of
the people of a State, the legislature has a wide discretion
and it may be fully conceded that perfect uniformity of
treatment of all persons is neither practical nor desirable,
that classification of persons is constantly necessary and
that questions of proper classification are not free from
difficulty. But we venture to think that not in any of the
cases in this court has classification of persons of sound
mind and full responsibility, having no special relation to
each other, in respect of remedial procedure for an admitted tort been sustained. Classification must be reasonable. As was said in Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co.
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 155, classification "must always rest
upon some difference which bears a reasonable and just
relation to the act in respect to which the classification is
proposed, and can never be made arbitrarily and without
such basis." As was said in Magoun v. Illinois Trust &
Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293: "The rule [i. e., of
the equality clause] is not a substitute for municipal law;
it only prescribes that that law have the attribute of
equality of operation, and equality of operation does not
mean indiscriminate operation on persons merely as such,
but on persons according to their relations." The same
principle is repeated and enforced in Southern Ry. Co. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 417: "While reasonable classification is permitted, without doing violence to the equal protection of the laws, such classification must be based upon
some real and substantial distinction, bearing a reasonable"and just relation to the things in respect to which
such classification is imposed; and classification cannot be
arbitrarily made without any substantial basis." Classification is the most inveterate of our reasoning processes.
We can scarcely think or speak without consciously or
unconsciously exercising it. It must therefore obtain in

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

and determine legislation; but it must regard real resemblances and real differences between things, and persons, and class them in accordance with their pertinence to
the purpose in hand. Classification like the one with
which we are here dealing is said to be the development
of the philosophic thought of the world and is opening the
door to legalized experiment. When fundamental rights
are thus attempted to be taken away, however, we may
well subject such experiment to attentive judgment. The
Constitution was intended, its very purpose was, to prevent experimentation with the fundamental rights of the
individual. We said through Mr. Justice Brewer, in
Muller v. Oregon,.208 U. S. 412, that "it is the peculiar
value of a written constitution that it places in unchanging form limitations upon -legislative action, and thus
gives a permanence and stability to popular government
which otherwise would be lacking."
It is urged that this court has frequently recognized the
special classification of the relations of employees and employers as proper and necessary for the welfare of the
community and requiring special treatment. This is undoubtedly true, but those cases, the Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S..1; New York Central R. R. Co.
v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S.
210; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219;
Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152,
and Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400, as
we have already pointed out in discussing the due process
clause, were cases of the responsibility of the employer for
injuries sustained by employees in the course of their
employment. The general end of such legislation is that
the employer shall become the insurer of the employee
against injuries from the employment without regard to
the negligence, if any, through which it occurred, leaving
to the employer to protect himself by insurance and to
compensate himself for the additional cost of production

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

339

Opinion of the Court.

by adding to the prices he charges for his products. It
seems a far cry from classification on the basis of the
relation of employer and employee in respect of injuries
received in course of employment to classification based
on the relation of an employer, not to an employee, but to
one who has ceased to be so, in respect of torts thereafter
committed by such ex-employee on the business and
property right of the employer. It is really a little difficult to say, if such classification can be sustained, why
special legislative treatment of assaults upon an employer
or his employees by ex-employees may not be sustained
with equal reason. It is said the State may deal separately with such disputes because such controversies are
a frequent and characteristic outgrowth of disputes over
terms and conditions of employment. Violence of exemployees toward present employees is also a characteristic of such disputes. Would this justify a legislature in
excepting ex-employees from criminal prosecution for
such assaults and leaving the assaulted persons to suits
for damages at common law?
Our conclusion, that plaintiffs are denied the equal
protection of the laws, is sustained by the decisions in
this court in Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Cotting v. Kansas City
Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe
Ry, Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150. In the state courts, we
find equal support for it. Bogni v. Perotti, 224 Mass.
152; Pearson v. Portland,69 Me. 278; Goldberg, Bowen
& Co. v. Stablemen's Union, 149 Cal. 429, 434; Pierce v.
Stablemen's Union., 156 Cal. 70, 74; Funkhouser v. Randolph, 287 Il. 94; Houston v. Pulitzer Publishing Co.,
249 Mo. 332; Phipps v. Wisconsin Central Ry. Co., 133
Wisc. 153; Park v. DetroitFree Press Co., 72 Mich. 560;
C., AT. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Clark & Bennett, 11 Ky. Law
Rep. 286.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

It is urged that in holding Paragraph 1464 invalid, we
are in effect holding invalid § 20 of the Clayton Act. Of
course, we are not doing so. In the first place, the
equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not
apply to congressional but only to state action. In the
second place, § 20 of the Clayton Act never has been construed or applied as the Supreme Court of Arizona has
construed and applied Paragraph 1464 in this case.
We have but recently considered the clauses of § 20
of the Clayton Act, sometimes erroneously called the
"picketing" clauses. American Steel Foundries v. TriCity Central Trades Council, ante, 184. They forbid an
injunction in labor controversies prohibiting any person
"from attending at any place where any such person or
persons may lawfully be, for the purpose of peacefully
obtaining or communicating information, or from peacefully persuading any person to work or to abstain from
working; or from ceasing to patronize or to employ any
party to such dispute, or from recommending, advising,
or persuading others by peaceful and lawful means so
to do."
We held that under these clauses picketing was unlawful, and that it might be enjoined as such, and that peaceful picketing was a contradiction in terms which the
statute sedulously avoided, but that, subject to the primary right of the employer and his employees and wouldbe employees to free access to his premises without obstruction by violence, intimidation, annoyance, importunity or dogging, it was lawful for ex-employees on a
strike and their fellows in a labor union to have a single
representative at each entrance to the plant of the employer to announce the strike and peaceably to persuade
the employees and would-be employees to join them in it.
We held that these clauses were merely declaratory of
what had always been the law and the best practice in
equity, and we thus applied them. The construction put

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the same words by the Arizona Supreme Court
makes these clauses of Paragraph 1464 as far from those
of § 20 of the Clayton Act in meaning as if they were in
wholly different language.
We conclude that the demurrer in this case should have
been overruled, the defendants required to answer, and
that if the evidence sustained the averments of the complaint, an injunction should issue as prayed.
Objection is made to this conclusion on the ground that
as we hold certain clauses of Paragraph 1464 of the Arizona Code, as construed, invalid they can not be separated from Paragraph 1456 which must also be held invalid and then there is no law in Arizona authorizing an
injunction in this or any case. Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, is cited to sustain this view.
There a new anti-trust statute was enacted making criminal and subject to injunction what before had not been
so. The exception from its operation of products of the
farm in the hands of the producers, contained in the law
as enacted, was declared to be a denial of equal protection of the laws, and the whole law was declared invalid
because the court in view of the exception could not assume that the legislature would have enacted the law,
had it known that the producers of farm products would
have come within its terms. But here the case is quite
different. Paragraph 1456 has been the statute law of
Arizona, State and Territory, since 1901. It was first
adopted in the Code of the Territory of 1901. It was continued in force, by virtue of the new constitution of
Arizona adopted by the people in 1912, which merely
changed the name of the court, upon which general equity
jurisdiction was conferred, from the District Court to the
Superior Court, and which provided that the authority,
jurisdiction, practice and procedure of the district courts
should continue in force and apply and govern superior
courts until altered or repealed. Arizona came into the

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
HOLuMs, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

Union with this constitution February 14, 1912. At the
session of 1912 provision was made for revision and codification of the laws. The present Code was adopted by
the legislature at its third special session of 1913. Paragraph 1464 was passed, as the Code itself states, at the
second session of 1913. Thus Paragraph 1464 was an
amendment to Paragraph 1456, and was included with the
original section in the code revision of 1913. To invalidate Paragraph 1456 we must assume that had the legislature known that the clauses of Paragraph 1464 here involved, construed as the Arizona Supreme Court has construed them, were unconstitutional, it would have repealed all the existing law conferring the equitable power
of injunction on its first instance courts of general jurisdiction. We can not make this assumption. The exception introduced by amendment to Paragraph 1456 proving invalid, the original law stands without the amendatory exception.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona
is reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JusTIcE HoLmEs, dissenting.

The dangers of a delusive exactness in the application
of the Fourteenth Amendment have been adverted to
before now. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber
Asphalt Paving Co., 197 U. S. 430, 434. Delusive exactness is a source of fallacy throughout the law. By calling a business " property" you make it seem like land,
and lead up to the conclusion that a statute cannot substantially cut down the advantages of ownership existing
before the statute was passed. An established business
no doubt may have pecuniary value and commonly is
protected by law against various unjustified injuries. But
you cannot give it definiteness of contour by calling it a
thing. It is a course of conduct and like other conduct is

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

343

HorliEs, J., dissenting.

subject to substantial modification according to time and
circumstances both in itself and in regard to what shall
justify doing it a harm. I cannot understand the notion
that it would be unconstitutional to authorize boycotts
and the like in aid of the employees' or the employers' interest by statute when the same result has been reached
constitutionally without statute by Courts with whom I
agree. See The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, 404. In this
case it does not even appear that the business was not
created under the laws as they now are. Denny v. Bennett, 128 U. S. 489.
I think further that the selection of the class of employers and employees for special treatment, dealing with
both sides alike, is beyond criticism on principles often
asserted by this Court. And especially I think that without legalizing the conduct complained of the extraordinary relief by injunction may be denied to the class.
Legislation may begin where an evil begins. If, as many
intelligent people believe, there is more danger that the
injunction will be abused in labor cases than elsewhere I
can feel no doubt of the power of the legislature to deny
it in such cases. I refer to two decisions in which I have
stated what I understand to be the law sanctioned by
many other decisions. Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance
Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223
U. S. 59.
In a matter like this I dislike to turn attention to anything but the fundamental question of the merits, but
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, raises
at least a doubt in my mind of another sort. The exception and the rule as to granting injunctions are both part
of the same code, enacted at the same time. If the exception fails, according to the Connolly Case the statute
is bad as a whole. It is true that here the exception came
in later than the rule, but after they had been amalgamated in a single act I cannot know that the later legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
PITNEY and CLARxE, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

lature would have kept the rule if the exception coul, not
be allowed. If labor had the ascendancy that the exception seems to indicate, I think that probably itwould have
declined to allow, injunctions in any case if that was the
only way of reaching its end. But this is a matter upon
which the State Court has the last word, and if it takes
this view its decision must prevail. I need not press further the difficulty of requiring a State Court to issue an
injunction that it never has been empowered to issue by
the quasi-sovereign that created the Court.
I must add one general consideration. 1There is nothing
that I more deprecate than the use of the Forteenth
Amendment beyond the absolute compulsion of its words
to prevent the making of social experiments that an important part of the community desires, in the insulated
chambers afforded by the several States, even though the
experiments may seem futile or even noxious to me and
to those whose judgment I most respec. I agree with the
more elaborate expositions of my brthers Pitney and
Brandeis and in their conclusion that the judgment should
be affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE PiTNEy, with
TICE CtARxE, dissenting.

whom concurred MR.Jus-

The Supreme Court of the State of Arizona sustained,
against objections raised by plaintiffs in error under the
"due process of law" and "equal protection" clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment, a statutory provision found
in Paragraph 1464, Arizona Civil Code 1913, which restricts the employment of the process of injunction
against what are called peaceful picketing and boycotting
under certain circumstances, in terms similar to those
found in § 20 of the Clayton Act of Congress (October 15,
1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, 738).1
'1464. No restraining order or injunction shall be granted by any
court of this state, or a judge or the judges thereof, in any case be-

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

345

PITrrY and CLAixn, JJ, dissenting.

Plaintiffs in error, who w
plaintiffs in the trial court
and appellants in the Supreme Court of the State, were
engaged in the business of conducting a restaurant in
Bisbee, enjoying and dependent for success upon the good
will, custom, and patronage of the public; defendants had
been employed, in one capacity or another, in the restaurant, and were members of a local labor union. A dispute arose concerning the terms and conditions of the
employment, and in the course of it demands were made
upon plaintiffs by the union, with which plaintiffs refused
to comply. Because of this the union ordered a strike of
all its members then employed by plaintiffs, and defendants joined in the strike and left plaintiffs' employ.
Thereupon, for the purpose of winning the strike and
tween an employer and employees, or between employers and employees, or between employees, or between persons employed and
persons seeking employment, involving or growing out of a dispute
concerning terms or conditions of employment, unless necessary to
prevent irreparable injury to property or to a property right of the
party making the application, for which injury there is no adequate
remedy at law, and such property or property right must be described with particularity in the application, which must be in writing and sworn to by the applicant or by his agent or attorney.
And no such restraining order or injunction shall prohibit any
person or persons from terminating any relation of employment, or
from ceasing to perform any work or labor, or from recommending,
advising, or persuading others by peaceful means so to do; or from
attending at or near a house or place where any person resides or
works, or carries en business, or happens to be for the purpose of
peaceably obtaining or communicating information, or of peaceably
persuading any person to work or to abstain from working; or from
ceasing to patronize or to employ any party to such dispute; or from
recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful means so
to do; or from paying or giving to or withholding from any person
engaged in such dispute any strike benefits or other moneys or things
of value; or from peaceably assembling at any place in a lawful
manner and for lawful purposes; or from doing any act or thing
which might iawfully be done in the absence of such dispute by any
party thereto.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
PrrNw and CLARns, JJ., dissenting.

257.U. S.

coercing plaintiffs into complying with the demands of
the union, defendants and numerous other persons unknown combined to inaugurate and did inaugurate a boycott of plaintiffs and their restaurant business, in order
to induce plaintiffs' customers and patrons to refrain from
patronizing the restaurant. In furtherance of the boycott
defendants caused persons to walk back and forth along
the street in front of the restaurant and near to the entrance during business hours, carrying banners bearing
conspicuous notices denouncing plaintiffs as unfair to
organized labor, etc., and caused printed handbills to be
distributed among plaintiffs' customers and patrons
recommending and attempting to persuade them to refrain from patronizing the restaurant. Having sustained
serious pecuniary loss, and being threatened with further
and irreparable damage, plaintiffs brought suit for injunction, setting up that defendants were relying upon the
provisions of Paragraph 1464 of the Civil Code, and praying that this might be held violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment and that they might have an injunction and
other relief.
The Supreme Court, conceding that prior to the enactment of Paragraph 1464 picketing carried on in any manner, even in a concededly peaceable manner, was unlawful by the law of Arizona, nevertheless, upon authority
of a previous case decided by it upon substantially identical facts (Truax v. Bisbee Local No. 380, 19 Ariz. 379,
392), held that relief was barred by the statute. 20
Ariz. 7.
Upon the facts, it hardly could be said that defendants
kept within the bounds of a "peaceful" picket or boycott. They appear to have gone beyond mere attempts to
persuade plaintiffs' customers to withdraw their patronage, and to have resorted to abusive and threatening language towards the patrons themselves. The court declared, however, that the statute established a new rule

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

PrTNEY and CLAu x, JJ., dissenting.

of evidence for determining whether picketing was peaceful and not otherwise unlawful; and that, measured by
the standard thus prescribed, defendants were not subject to injunction. By this construction we are bound,
and the only question is whether by the statute as so construed, and as applied to the facts of the case, plaintiffs
are deprived of rights secured to them by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
As to this, I regret that I am not in accord with the
views of the majority of the court. Expressing no opinion
as to the wisdom, or policy, or propriety in the generdl
sense, of Paragraph 1464-with neither of which is our
duty concerned-I consider first, whether, as construed
and applied, it has the effect of depriving plaintiffs in
error of their liberty or property without due process
of law.
It is beside the question to discuss whether, under the
rules of the common law or the general principles of justice, picketing or boycotting, or the conduct of defendants
however described, is lawful. The Supreme Court of Arizona virtually conceded that in that State, in the absence
of statute, they were not. The question is whether in this
respect the law might be altered by act of legislation, to
the extent of depriving a party aggrieved, and threatened
with irreparable injury, of relief by injunction.
That the right to conduct a lawful business, and thereby
acquire pecuniary profits, is property, is indisputable.
That the state of society, and the existing condition of
good order, or the opposite, surrounding the business, and
its liability to or immunity from interruption through
particular forms of disorder, affect.its profitableness, likewise is plain. But it seems to me clear that, so far as
these result from the general operation of the laws and
regulations established by authority of the State for
maintaining the peace, good order, and tranquility of its
people and affording protection against disturbing ele-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
PITNEY and

CLARxE, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

ments and ill-disposed persons, those laws and regulations, as rules of conduct and measures of relief, are subject to be changed in the normal exercise of the legislative
power of the State. That no person has a vested interest
in any rule of law, entitling him to have it remain unaltered for his benefit, is a principle thoroughly settled by
numerous decisions of this court, and having general application, not confined at all to the rights and liabilities
existing between employers and employees, or between
persons formerly occupying that relation. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 134; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.
516, 532; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1,
50; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S.
67, 76; New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, 198.
The use of the process of injunction to prevent disturbance of a going business by such a campaign as defendants here have conducted, is in the essential sense a measure of police regulation. And just as the States have a
broad discretion about establishing police regulations, so
they have a discretion, equally broad, about modifying
and relaxing them. They may adopt the common law, or
some other system, as their own judgment of the interests
of their people may determine. They have general dominion, and, saving as restricted by particular provisions
of the Federal Constitution, complete dominion over all
persons, property, and business transactions within their
borders; and in regulating its internal affairs a State may
establish by legislation a policy differing in one or more
respects from those of other States, just as it might establish a like difference -hrough the decisions of its courts.
Hence, I have no doubt that, without infringing the
"due process" clause, a State might by statute establish
protection against picketing or boycotting however conducted, just as many States have done by holding them
to be contrary to the common law, recognizing a property

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

PITNEY and CLA~xE, JJ., dissenting.

value in a going business, and applying equitable principles in safeguarding it from irreparable injury through
interference found unwarranted. Vegelahn v. Guntner,
167 Mass. 92, 97-98; Beck v. Railway Teamsters' Protective Union, 118 Mich. 497, 520-521; Barnes & Co. v.
Chicago Typographical Union, 232 Ill. 424, 435, 437;
Jensen v. Cooks' & Waiters' Union, 39 Wash. 531, 536;
St. Germain v. Bakery & Confectionery Workers' Union,
97 Wash. 282, 289, 295; Jonas Glass Co. v. Glass Bottle
Blowers' Association, 77 N. J. Eq. 219, 222-224. And,
just as one State might establish such protection by statute, so another State may by statute disestablish the protection, even as States have differed in their judicial determination of the general law upon the sabject. In
neither case can I find ground for declaring that the
State's action is so arbitrary and devoid of reasonable
basis that it can be called a deprivation of liberty or
property without due process of law, in the constitutional
sense. In truth, the States have a considerable degree of
latitude in determining, each for itself, their respective
conditions of law and order, and what kind of civilization
they shall have as a result.
Paragraph 1464 does not modify any substantive rule
of law, but only restricts the processes of the courts of
equity. Ordinary legal remedies remain; and I cannot
believe that the use of the injunction in such cases-however important-is so essential to the right of acquiring, possessing and enjoying property that its restriction
or elimination amounts to a deprivation of liberty or
property without due process of law, within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Secondly, it is said that Paragraph 1464, Arizona Civil
Code, denies to plaintiffs in error the "equal protection
of the laws; "but it seems to me evident that it does not
offend in this regard. Examination shows that it does not
discriminate against the class to which plaintiffs belong

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Prrnw

and CLaE, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

in favor of any other. It applies not only to cases between employers and employees, irrespective of who is
plaintiff and who defendant, but to cases between employees, and between persons employed and those seeking
employment. And it applies equally to all persons coming within its reach.
It is said that because, under other provisions of the
Arizona statute law, plaintiffs would have been entitled
to an injunction against such a campaign as that conducted by defendants, had it been in a controversy other
than a dispute between employer and former employeesfor instance, had competing restaurant-keepers been the
offenders-refusal of relief in the particular case by force
of Paragraph 1464 is undue favoritism to the class of
which defendants are members. But I submit with deference that this is not a matter of which plaintiffs are entitled to complain under the "equal protection" clause.
There is no discrimination as against them; others situated like them are accorded no greater right to an injunction than is accorded to them. Whatever complaint the
competing restaurant-keepers might have, if in the case
supposed they were subject to be stopped by an injunction where former employees were not, it would not be
a denial of equal protection to plaintiffs. Cases arising
under this clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, preeminently, call for the application of Ihe settled rule that
before one may be heard to oppose state legislation upon
the ground of its repugnance to the Federal Constitution
h6 must bring himself within the class affectel by the
alleged unconstitutional feature. Rosenthal v. New York,
226 U. S. 260, 270-271; Jeffrey Manufacturing Co. v.
Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v.
St. Louis Soithweitern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 149; Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152, 156157.
A disregard of the rule in the present case has resulted,
as it seems to me, in treating as a discrimination what, so

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

Prnmnx and CLAxEx,

J., dissenting.

far as plaintiffs are concerned, is no more than a failure
to include in the statute a case which in consistency ought,
it is said, to have been covered-an omission immaterial
to plaintiffs. This is to transform the provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment from a guaranty of the "protection of equal laws" into an insistence upon laws complete,
perfect, symmetrical.
The guaranty of "equal protection" entitles plaintiffs
to treatment not less favorable than that given to others
similarly circumstanced. This the present statute gives
them. The provision does not entitle them, as against
their present opponents under present circumstances, to
protection as adequate as they might have against opponents of another class under like circumstances. I find
no authority for the proposition that the guaranty was
intended to secure equality of protection "not only for all
but against all similarly situated," except as between persons who properly belong in the same class. The familiar
expression, in Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 32,
"Class legislation, discriminating against some and favoring others," refers to a discrimination which at the same
time favors others similarly situated. The same is true
of what was said in Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, 71-72,
to the effect that the Amendment "merely requires that
all persons subjected to such legislation shall be treated
alike, under like circumstances and conditions, both in
the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed."
Other decisions are to the same effect. Nothing in the
Arizona statute under consideration, either as written or
as construed and applied, operates to discriminate against
plaintiffs in favor of others similarly circumstanced and
conditioned. Neither class of supposed offenders-those
exempt from or those subject to injunction-stands in like
case with plaintiffs who seek an injunction.
But, assuming plaintiffs were entitled to assert, as a
denial of equal protection, the alleged discrimination aris-

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
PIT,y and CLA xE, JJ., dissenting.

257 U. S.

ing from a denial of equitable relief in one class of cases
which would be granted in another, I am unable to see
that the statute creates an arbitrary and unreasonable
discrimination in this regard.
It is going far-too far, I submit-to assume that there
is any discrimination in fact. Such a campaign as that
conducted by defendants, the legislature foresaw, was
likely to be resorted to by employees or former employees,
in the case of a dispute with the employer concerning
terms or conditions of employment. In such a case, for
reasons deemed sufficient, the legislature declared there
should be no injunction. That such picketing or boycotting ever was conducted in Arizona, or that the legislature
had reason to anticipate that it would be undertaken in
the future, by competitors in business or any others than
participants in a labor dispute, does not appear and cannot be assumed. Without this, the supposed discrimination is but theoretical, not practical.
But were there actual discrimination, granting immunity from injunction to laboring men who resort to unlawful conduct in the way of picketing, boycotting and
the like, seriously interfering with the employer's business, while denying the like immunity to other classes
who may resort to similar unlawful and harmful conduct
but with what the legislature probably regarded as a
slighter claim to indulgence, I cannot agree that this
demonstrates the classification to be so arbitrary and unreasonable as to render the act a denial of the equal protection of the laws. Doubtless the legislature, upon a review of the subject in the light of a knowledge of conditions in their own State that we do not possess, concluded
that in labor controversies there were reasons affecting the
public interest for preventing resort to the process of injunction and leaving the parties to the ordinary legal
remedies, which reasons did not apply generally. The
simple truth is, they merely singled out, as properly they

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

PITNEY

353

and CLAuxn, JJ., dissenting.

might, a particular kind of controversy for what theyregarded as appropriate treatment; and, as already shown,
they acted upon it in a manner consistent with due process
of law. There is here no denial of equal protection.
Legislation almost of necessity proceeds subject by subject, with classification as an essential part of the process.
In adjusting their laws to the needs of the people the
States have a wide range of discretion about classification;
the equal protection clause does not require that .all state
laws shall be perfect and complete, nor that the entire
field of proper legislation shall be covered by a single act;
and it is not a valid objection that a law made applicable
to one subject might properly have been extended to
others. Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 270-271;
Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642,
649-650. All employers' liability and workmen's compensation laws proceed upon the basis that the responsibility of employers for injuries sustained by employees
forms a' proper subject for separate treatment. See Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Hawkins v.
Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Middleton v. Texas Power & Light
Co., 249 U. S. 152; Arizona Employers' Liability Cases,
250 U. S. 400. And I see no adequate reason for denying
the authority of a State to deal separately with those
controversies between employer and employees or between persons employed and those seeking employment,
which experience has shown to be a characteristic outgrowth 9 f disputes over the terms and conditions of
employment.
I am unable to conclude that Paragraph 1464 either deprives plaintiffs in error of liberty or property without due
process of law, or denies to them the equal protection of
the laws, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.

$54

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Bnuwmrs, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, dissenting.
The first legislature of the State of Arizona adopted in
1913 a Civil Code. By Title 6, c. III, it sets forth conditions and circumstances under which the courts of the
State may or may not grant injunctions. Paragraph 1464
contains, among other things, a prohibition against interfering by injunction between employers and employees,
in any case growing out of a dispute concerning terms or
conditions of employment, unless interposition by injunction is necessary to protect property from injury through
violence. Its main purpose was doubtless to prohibit the
courts from enjoining peaceful picketing and the boycott.
With the wisdom of the statute we have no concern.
Whether Arizona in enacting this statute transgressed
limitations imposed upon the power of the States by the
Fourteenth Amendment is the question presented for decision.
The employer has, of course, a legal right to carry on
his business for profit; and incidentally the subsidiary
rights to secure and retain customers, to fix such prices for
his product as he deems proper, and to buy merchandise
and labor at such prices as he chooses to pay. This right
to carry on business-be it'called liberty or property-has
value; and, he who interferes with the right without cause
renders timself liable. But for cause the right may be
interfered with and even be destroyed. Such cause exists
when, in the pursuit of an equal right to further their
several interests, his competitors make inroads upon his
trade, or when suppliers of merchandise or of labor make
inroads upon his profits. What methods and means are
permissible in this struggle of contending forces is determined in part by decisions of the courts, in part by acts of
the legislatures. The rules governing the contest necessarily change from time to time. For conditions change;
and, furthermore, the rules evolved, being merely experi-

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

355

BR&wnnls, J., dissenting.

ments in government, must be discarded when they prove
to be failures.
Practically every change in the law governing the relation of employer and employee must abridge, in some
respect, the liberty or property of one of the parties.-if
liberty and property be measured by the standard of the
law theretofore prevailing. If such changes are made by
acts of the legislature, we call the modification an exercise
of the police power. And, although the change may involve interference with existing liberty or property of
individuals, the statute will not be declared a violation of
the due process clause, unless the court finds that the
interference is arbitrary or unreasonable or that, considered as a means, the measure has no real or substantial
relation of cause to a permissible end." Nor will such
changes in the law governing contests between employer
and employee be held to be violative of the equal protection clause, merely because the liberty or property of
individuals in other relations to each other (for instance,
as competitors in trade or as vendor and purchaser) would
not, under similar circumstances, be subject to like
abridgement. Few laws are of universal application. It
is of the nature of our law that it has dealt not with man
in general, but with him in relationships. That a peculiar
relationship of individuals may furnish legal basis for the
classification which satisfies the requirement of the Fourteenth Amendment 2 is clear. That the relation of em'Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Dominion Hotel v. Arizona, 249

U. S. 265.
"The rule, therefore, is not a substitute for municipal law; it only
prescribes that that law have the attribute of equality of operation,
and equality of operation does not mean indiscriminate operation on
persons merely as such, but on persons according to their relations."
Mr. Justice McKenna in Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank,
170 U. S. 283, 293.
In Fidelity Mutual Life Association v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308, and
Northwestern National Life Insurance Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S. 243?

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANxDES,

J., dissenting.

257 U.S.

ployer and employee affords a constitutional basis for
legislation applicable only to persons standing in that
relation has been repeatedly held by this court.' The
questions submitted are whether this statutory prohibition of the remedy by injunction is in itself arbitrary and
so unreasonable as to deprive the employer of liberty or
property without due process of law;-and whether limitation of this prohibition to controversies involving employment denies him equal protection of the laws.
Whether a law enacted in the exercise of the police
power is justly subject to the charge of being unreasonable
or arbitrary, can ordinarily be determined only by a consideration of the contemporary conditions, social, industrial and political, of the community to be affected
thereby. Resort to such facts is necessary, among other
things, in order to appreciate the evils sought to be
the relation of insurer and insured was made the subject of regulation; in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Commercial Milling Co.,
218 U. S. 406; Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73;
Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co, 226
U. S. 217, that of public utility and patron; in Noble-State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104, that of banker and deposito,-; in St. Louis &
San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Mathews, 165 U. S. 1; Missouri, Kansas &'
Texas Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267; and Minneapolis & St. Louis
Ry. Co. v. Emmons, 149 U. S. 364, that of railway and adjoining
landowner.
3
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & St.
Paul Ry. Co. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404; Tullis v. Lake Erie & Western
R. R. Co., 175 U. S. 348; Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S.
13; Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Great Southern Hotel Co. v.
Jones, 193 U. S. 532; Minnesota Iron Co. v. Kline, 199 U. S. 593;
Wilmington Star Mining Co. v. Fulton, 205 U. S. 60; Muller v.
Oregon,208 U. S. 412; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36; Mobile, Jackson &
Kansas City R. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35; Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; Arizona Em.
ployers" Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400. Compare Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BRa~Nris, J., dissenting.

remedied and the possible effects of the remedy proposed.
Nearly all legislation involves a weighing, of public needs

as against private desires; and likewise a weighing of relative social values. Since government is not an exact
science, prevailing public opinion concerning the evils and
the remedy is among the important facts deserving consideration; particularly, when the public conviction is
both deep-seated, and widespread and has been reached
after deliberation.' What, at any particular time, is the
paramount public need is, necessarily, largely a matter of
judgment. Hence, in passing upon the validity of a law
challenged as being unreasonable, aid may be derived from
the experience of other countries and of the several States
of our Union in which the common law and its conceptions of liberty and of property prevail. The history of
the rules governing contests between employer and employed in the several English-speaking countries illustrates both the susceptibility of such rules to change and
the variety of contemporary opinion as to what rules will
best serve the public interest. The divergence of opinion
in this difficult field of governmental action should admonish us not to declare a rule arbitrary and unreasonable merely because we are convinced that it is fraught
with danger to the public weal, and thus to close the door
to experiment within the law.
In England a workingman struggling to improve his
condition, even when acting singly, was confronted until
1813 with laws limiting the amount of wages which he
might demand.' Until 1824 he was punishable as a criminal if he combined with his fellow worknen to raise
wages or shorten hours or to affect the business in any
'Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, 420.
53 Geo. 3, c. 40. For the earlier law see, for instance, 23 Edw. 3,

c. 1-8; 25 Edw. 3, c. 1-7, The Statutes of Laborers; 5 Eliz., c. 4;
1 Jac. 1, c. 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BR&NDIs, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

way, even if there was no resort to a strike.' Until 1871
members of a union who joined in persuading employees
to leave work were liable criminally, although the employees were not under contract and the persuasion was
both peaceful and unattended by picketing.7

Until 1871

threatening a strike, whatever the cause, was also a
criminal act Not until 1875 was the right of workers to
combine in order to attain their ends conceded fully. In
that year Parliament declared that workmen combining in
furtherance of a trade dispute should not be indictable for
criminal conspiracy unless the act if done by one person
would be indictable as a crime." After that statute a combination of workmen to effect the ordinary objects of a
strike was no longer a criminal offense. But picketing,
though peaceful, in aid of a strike, remained illegal; 0 and
likewise the boycott." Not until 1906 was the ban on
8 5 Geo. 4, c. 95, (replaced by 6 Geo. 4, c. 129).
For the earlier
law see, for instance, 34 Edw. 3, c. 9; The King v. Journeymen
Tailors of Cambridge, 8 Modem, 10; Wright, The Law of Criminal
Conspiracies.
7 Criminal Law Amendment Act (1871), 34 & 35 Vic., c. 32, § 1,
last paragraph. For the earlier law see Regina v. Rowlands, 2 Den.
363.
8
Criminal Law Amendment Act (1871), 34 & 35 Vie., c. 32, § 1,
sub-sec. 2. For the earlier law see Walsby v. Anley, 3 E. & E. 516;
Skinner v. Kitch, 10 Cox C. C. 493; L. R. 2 Q. B. 393 (1867).
9The Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act (1875), 38 & 39
Vie., c. 86, § 3. But see Rigby v. Connol, L. R. 14 Ch. D. 482, 491.
10 38 & 39 Vic., c. 86, § 7; Regina v. Bauld, 13 Cox C. C. 282;
Lyons v. Wilkins, [1896] 1 Ch. 811, 826, 831; [1899] 1 Ch. 255;
Taff Vale Ry. Co. v. Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants,
[1901] A. C. 426.
11 Temperton v. Russell [1893] 1 Q. B. 715; Quinn v. Leathem,
[1901] A. C. 495. But compare with these cases Boots v. Grundy,
82 I. T. R. 769; Scottish Co-operative Society v. Glasgow Fleshers,
35 Scottish L. R. 645; Bulcock v. St. Anneas Master Builders' Federation, 19 T. L. R. 27; a distinction between these and the two former
is pointed out in Quinn v, Leathem, supra, p. 539. The Royal Corn-

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

peaceful picketing and the bringing of pressure upon an
employer by means of a secondary strike or a boycott
removed." In 1906, also, the act of inducing workers to
break their contract of employment (previously held an
actionable wrong)13 was expressly declared legal. 14 In
England improvement of the condition of workingmen
mission on Trade DiSputes and Trade Combinations, whose recommendations were the basis of the Trade Disputes Act, 1906, 6 Edw.
7, c. 47, recommended, Report, p. 16, "that an act should be passed
for the following objects:. . . (2) To declare strikes from
whatever motive or for whatever purposes (including sympathetic or
secondary strikes), apart from crime or breach of contract, legal
." It is probable that §§ 1 and 3 of the Act of 1906 make the
secondary strike or boycott in the course of a trade dispute legal.
But see note 14, par. 2.
2The Trade Disputes Act (1906), 6 Edw. 7, c. 47, § 2.
Is Read v. Friendly Society of Stonemasons, [1902] 2 K. B. 88; id.,
732; South Wales Miners" Federationv. Glamorgan Coal Co., [1905]
A. C. 239.
14 6 Edw. 7, e. 47, § 3, "An act done by a person in contemplation
or furtherance of a trade dispute shall not be actionable on the ground
only that it induces some other person to break a contract of employment or that it is an interference with the trade, business, or
employment of some other person, or with the right of some other
person to dispose of his capital or his labour as he wills." But the
employee who breaks his contract remains personally liable in
damages.
The law of England still prohibits certain practices which might
prove effective in the struggle between employer and employee. Thus
the Trade Disputes Act, supra, does not sanction some threats or
coercion, Conway v. Wade, [1909] A. C. 506, 511. It does not permit
a strike to force the discharge of a member of the union who has
not paid a fine, Conway v. Wade, supra. Nor does it permit inducing
an employer's men to break their contracts in order to force him to
join an employers' association, since this is not a trade dispute
within the meaning of the act, Larkin v. Long, [1915] A. C. 814.
The judges are by no means agreed as to what constitutes coercion.
Compare: Hodges v. Webb, [1920] 2 Ch. 70; Valentine v. Hyde,
[1919] 2 Ch. 129; Pratt v. British Medical Association, [1919] 1
K. B. 244; and Davies v. Thomas, [1920] 1 Ch. 217.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BwRIws, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

and their emancipation appear to have been deemed recently the paramount public need.
In the British Dominions the rules governing the
struggle between employer and employed were likewise
subjected to many modifications; but the trend of social
experiment took a direction very different from that followed in the mother country. Instead of enabling the
worker to pursue such methods as he might deem effective
in the contest, statutes were enacted in some of the Dominions which forbade the boycott, peaceful picketing,
and even the simple strike and the lockout; 5 use of the
injunction to enforce compliance with these prohibitions
was expressly santioned; 1 and violation of the statute
15

Australia: Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 190415, §§ 6-9; New South Wales, Industrial Arbitration Act, 1912-1918,
§§ 48D and 48E; compare Queensland, Industrial Arbitration Act,
1916, § 65. New Zealand: Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration
Act, 1908, § 108; Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act, 1908, Part I.
1
6The Industrial Disputes Act of New South Wales, 1908, § 60,
made strikes and lockouts illegal and the Industrial Arbitration Act,
1912, which replaced it, continued their outlawry, §§ 44-48, and expressly provided that they might be enjoined by the Court of Industrial Arbitration; but by the Act of 1918, § 15, §§ 45 to 48 inclusive
of the earlier act, dealing with strikes, were amended:
"45. The following strikes and no others shall be illegal:"(a) Any strike by employees of the crown, etc.
"(b) Any strike by the employees in an industry the conditions of
which are for the time being wholly or partially regulated by an
award or by an industrial agreement: etc.
"(c) Any strike'which has been commenced prior to the expiry of
fourteen clear days notice in writing of intention to commence the
same or of the existence of such conditions as would be likely to lead
to the same given the Minister, etc.
"o46. In the event of an illegal strike occurring in any industry, the
court may order any trade union, whose executive or. members are
taking part in or aiding or abetting the strike, to pay a penalty not
exceeding five hundred pounds."
The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1904,
§ 38(e), provides that the Court of Arbitration and Conciliation

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BR&NDm

s, J., dissenting.

was also made punishable by criminal proceedings.'
These prohibitions were the concomitants of prescribed
industrial arbitration through administrative tribunals by
which the right of both employer and employee to liberty
and property were seriously abridged in the public interest. Australia 18 and New Zealand 19 made compulsory both
arbit cation and compliance with the award." Canada limited the compulsion to a postponement of the right to
strike until the dispute should have been officially investigated and reported upon.2 In these Dominions the uninterrupted pursuit of industry and the prevention of the
arbitrary use of power appear to be deemed the paramount public needs.
In the United States the rules of the common law governing the struggle between employer and employee have
likewise been subjected to modifications. These have
shall have power "to enjoin any organization or person from committing
or continuing any contravention of this Act."
1
7See note 15, supra.
28 The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1904-1915,
§§ 19-31. (Printed as Appendix A to Commonwealth Acts 19141915.) See Henry B. Higgins, "A New Province for Law and Order,"
29 Harv. Law Rev. 13; 32 Harv. Law Rev. 189; 34 Harv. Law Rev.
105.
19
Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1908, supra, §§ 53104, as amended by Acts 1908, No. 239, Part II; Acts 1911, No. 33;
Acts 1913, No. 7.
20 Compare Kansas act creating a court of industrial relations, Laws
1920, c. 29. State v. Howat, 107 Kan. 423; State v. Howat, 109 Kan.
376; Court of Industrial Relations v. Charles Wolff Packing Co.,
109 Kan. 629.
21Industrial Disputes Investigation Act, 1907, 6-7 Edw. 7, c. 20,
§§ 56, 57. Rex v. McGuire, 16 0. L. R. 522. 9-10 Edw. 7, c. 29.
8-9 Geo. 5, c. 27. 10-11 Geo. 5, c. 29.
Picketing is illegal. Criminal Code, Canada, § 501; Krug Furniture Co. v. Union of Woodworkers, 5 0. L. R. 463; CTotter v. Osborne, 18 Man. 471; Vulcan Iron Works v. Winnipeg Lodge, 21 Man.
473; Le Roi Mining Co. v. Rossland Miners Union, 8 B. C. 370. But
see Rev. Stats, B. C., c. 228.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDIS, J., dissenting.

257 U.S.

been made mainly through judicial decisions. The legal
right of workingmen to combine and to strike in order to
secure for themselves higher wages, shorter hours and
better working conditions received early general recognition 22 But there developed great diversity of opinion as
to the means by which, 3 and also as to the persons through
whom,2 and upon whom 11 pressure might permissibly be
22 Commonwealth v. Hunt, 4 Met. 111; for earlier common law and
statutory provisions see Carew v. Rutherford, 106 Mass. 1, 14; 1
Weeden, Economic and Social History of New England, pp. 173, 334.
Freund, Police Power, § 331; Commons, History of Labor in the
United States, vol. 1, c. 5.
23
For the boycott see note 28, infra,p. 364; and for peaceful picketing, note 29, infra, p. 365.
In some jurisdictions the strike was considered an unlawful means
of procuring the unionization of the shop,--see Plant v. Woods, 176
Mass. 492; Pickett v. Walsh, 192 Mass. 572, 585; Lucke v. Clothing
Cutters' Assembly, 77 Md. 396; Erdman v. Mitchell, 207 Pa. St. 79;
Freund, Police Power, § 331;-while in others it was regarded as
permissible--National Protective Association v. Cumming, 170 N. Y.
315; Kemp v. DivisionNo. q41, 255 Ill. 213; Grant ConstructionCo.
v. St. Paul Building Trades Council, 136 Minn. 167; State v. Van
Pelt, 136 N. Car. 633; Jetton-Dekle Lumber Co. v. Mather, 53 Fla.
969; Cohn & Roth Electric Co. v. Bricklayers Union, 92 Conn. 161.
2" Iii some jurisdictions the officers of the national union, not being
employees, are regarded as outsiders with no justification for their
acts,-Booth v. Burgess, 72 N. J. Eq. 181; Jonas Glass Co. v. Glass
Bottle Blowers' Association, 72 N. J. Eq. 653; 77 N. J. Eq. 219.
In other jurisdictions it is held that they are furthering a legitimate
interest,-see Allen v. Flood, [1898] A. C. 1; Jose v. Metallic Roofing
Co., [1908] A. C. 514, reversing 14 0. L. R. 156; Gill Engraving
Co. v. Doerr,214 Fed. 111; Lindsay & Co. v. Montana Federationof
Labor, 37 Mont. 264. See American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City
Central Trades Council, ante, 184.
25
In some jurisdictions the courts seek to localize the conflict by
making it illegal to bring in any party beyond those between whom
the original dispute arose--Burnham v. Dowd, 217 Mass. 351; Booth
v. Burgess, 72 N. J. Eq. 181; Purvis v. United Brotherhood, 214 Pa.
St. 348;-in other jurisdictions it is considered that anyone having
business relations with either party which bear on the matter in con-

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.

363

BPxums, J., dissenting.

312.

exerted in order to induce the employer to yield to the
demands of the workingmen. Courts were required, in
the absence of legislation, to determine what the public
welfare demanded;-whether it would not be best subserved by leaving the contestants free to resort to any
means not involving a breach of the peace or injury to
tangible property; whether it was consistent with the
public interest that the contestants should be permitted
to invoke the aid of others not directly interested in the
matter in controversy; and to what extent incidental injury to persons not parties to the controversy should be
held justifiable.
The earliest reported American decision on peaceful
picketing appears to have been rendered in 1888 21; the
By no great majority the
earliest on boycotting in 1886.'
prevailing judicial opinion in America declares the boytroversy has violated his neutrality and is subject to reprisal from
the union which is carrying on the struggle,-Bossert v. Dhuy, 221
N. Y. 342; Master Builders' Association v. Domascio, 16 Colo. App.
25; Piercev. Stablemen's Union, 156 Cal. 70, 76; Cohn & Roth Electric Co. v. Bricklayers Union, 92 Conn. 161; Gilt Engraving Co. v.
Doerr, 214 Fed. i11; Grant Construction Co. v. St. Paul Building
Trades Council, 136 Minn. 167. See 31 Harv. Law Rev. 482, and
Auburn Draying Co. v. Wardell, 227 N. Y. 1, for limitations.
Again, in some States it is unlawful to resort to the method of

notifying persons that a strike will occur if a non-union employer or
his product is employed,-Booth v. Burgess, 72 N. J. Eq. 181; Gray
v. Building Trades Council, 91 Minn. 171;-while in other States it is
lawful,-Cohn & Roth Electric Co. v. Bricklayers Union, 92 Conn.
161, 167; Bossert v. Dhuy, 221 N. Y. 342.
26

Sherry v. Perkins, 147 Mass. 212; but the doctrine was not estab-

lished
until eight years later, Vegelahn v. Guntner, 167 Mass. 92.
27
The earliest reported cases seem to be People v. Wilzig, 4 N. Y.
Crim. 403; and People v. Kostka, 4 N. Y. Crim. 429, both of which
occurred in June, 1886; the leading case of State v. Glidden, 55 Conn.
46, came the next year. Laidler, however, speaks of an unreported

case in 1840; see Laidler, Boycotts and the Labor Struggle, p. 70;
see also Commons, History of Labor in the UTiited States, vol. 2, pp.

267, 317, 364.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRAmns, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

cott as commonly practiced an illegal means2 8 (see Duplex
PrintingPress Co. v. Deering,254 U. S. 443), while it in28

Some of the difference of opinion results from a difference in
definition. A boycott is sometimes defined so as to entail violence or
malicious oppression, State v. Glidden, 55 Conn. 46; while in other
cases it is simply pressure exerted by abstention from business relations, Millk v. United States Printing Co., 99 App. Div. 605, affd. 199
N. Y. 76. The terms primary and secondary as describing the boycott are also of uncertain content. Only a boycott that is free of
violence or malevolence is anywhere held to be lawful. This peaceful
boycott in support of a bona fide industrial conflict, however, is not
everywhere held lawful, and its lawfulness often is held to depend on
whether it is used against the industrial antagonist directly (primary
boycott) or against an outsider because of his influence on or connection with the industrial antagonist (secondary boycott). Holding
the boycott, primary and secondary, illegal: Wilson v. Hey, 232 Ill.
389; Beck v. Railway Teamsters' Union, 118 Mich. 497; Gray v.
Building Trades Council, 91 Minn. 171; Booth v. Burgess, 72 N. J.
Eq. 181; Purvis v. United Brotherhood, 214 Pa. St. 348; Patch
Manufacturing Co. v. ProtectionLodge, 77 Vt. 294; State v. Glidden,
55 Conn. 46; Crump v. Commonwealth, 84 Va. 927, 939; Jensen v.
Cooks, etc. Union, 39 Wash. 531; Webb v. Cooks, etc. Union, 205
S. W. (Tex.) 465; Seubert v. Reiff, 164 N. Y. S. 522; American
Federation of Labor v. Buck's Stove & Range Co., 33 App. D. C.
83; Burnham v. Dowd, 217 Mass. 351; My Maryland Lodge v. Adt,
100 Md. 238.
Holding primary boycott legal: Foster v. Retail Clerks' Association,
78 N. Y. S. 860, 867; Butterick Publishing Co. v. Typographical
Union, 100 N. Y. S. 292; Gill Engraving Co. v. Doerr, 214 Fed. 111;
Empire Theatre Co. v. Cloke, 53 Mont. 183; Steffes v. Motion Picture
Union, 136 Minn. 200; Stoner v. Robert, 43 Wash. (D. C.) L. Rep.
437; Guethler v. Altman, 26 Ind. App. 587; Pierce v. Stablemen's
Union, 156 Cal. 70; Riggs v. Cincinnati Waiters, 5 Ohio Nisi Prius,
386; McCormick v. Local Union, 13 Ohio Cir. Ct. (N.IS.) 545; Ex
parte Sweitzer, 13 Old. Cr. 154. See Laws of Utah, 1917, c. 68; Root
v. Anderson, 207 S. W. (Mo.) 255.
Holding secondary boycott legal: Bossert v. Dhuy, 221 N. Y. 342though compare Auburr Draying Co. v. Wardell, 227 N. Y. 1; Stoner
v. Robert, 43 Wash. (D. C.) L. Rep. 437 Lindsay & Co. v. Montana
Federation of Labor, 37 Mont. 264; Pierce v. Stablemen's Union, 156
Cal. 70, 76; Parkinson Co. v. Building Trades Council, 154 Cal. 581;
see Marx & Haas Jeans Clothing Co. v. Watson, ;68 Mo. 133.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BRANDSIs,

365

3., dissenting.

clines towards the legality of peaceful picketing.2 ' See
American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Central Trades
Council, ante, 184. But in some of the States, notably
New York, both peaceful picketing and the boycott are
declared permissible2 Judges, being thus called upon to
exercise a quasi-legislative function and weigh relative
social values, naturally differed in their conclusions on
such questions."'
29

Holding picketing in itself illegal:-Vegelahn v. Guntner, 167
Mass. 92; Pierce v. Stableten's Union, 156 Cal. 70; Barnes & Co. v.
Chicago Typographical Union, 232 Ill. 424; Lyon & Healy v. Piano,
etc. Workers' Union, 289 Ill. 176; Beck v. Railway Teamsters' Union,
118 Mich. 497; Claragev. Luphringer, 202 Mich. 612; Baldwin Lumber Co. v. Brotherhood of Teamsters, etc., 91 N. J. Eq. 240; Baasch
v. Cooks Union, 99 Wash. 378; Webb v. Cook', etc., Union, 205
S. W. (Tex.) 465; the Washington Act, 1915, c. 181, declaring picketing to be unlawful, was defeated on referendum in 1916; Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Gee, 139 Fed. 582.
Stating that peaceful picketing is lawful:-Riggs v. Cincinnati
Waiters, 5 Ohio Nisi Prius, 386; McCormick v. Local Union, 13 Ohio
Cir. Ct. (N. S.) 545; Jones v. Van Winkle Machine Works, 131 Ga.
336, 340; Karges FurnitureCo. v. Amalgamated, etc., Union, 165 Ind.
421, 430, 431; Everett Waddey Co. v. Richmond Typographical
Union, 105 Va. 188, 197; Steffes v. Motion Picture Union, 136 Minn.
200,-seealso Laws 1917, c. 493; Stoner v. Robert, 43 Wash. (D. C.)
L. Rep. 437; Empire Theatre Co. v. Cloke, 53 Mont. 183; Mills v.
United States Printing Co., 99 App. Div. 605, affd. 199 N. Y. 76;
Ex parte Sweitzer, 13 Old. Cr. 154; White Mountain Freezer Co. v.
Murphy, 78 N. H. 398; see Utah, Laws of 1917, c. 68; American
Engineering Co. v. International Moulders Union, 25 Pa. Dist. 564;
Iron Molders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45; St. Louis v.
Gloner, 210 Mo. 502.
8
0 Mils v. United States Printing Co., 99 App. Div. 605, affd. 199
N. Y. 76; see also cases in note 29, supra, from Ohio, Minnesota,
Montana, and Oklahoma.
31 Compare:-Plant v. Woods, 176 Mass. 492, 502, last paragraph,
with Cohn & Roth Electric Co. v. Bricklayers Union, 92 'Conn. 161,
167, and, Bossert v. Dhuy,- 221 N. Y. 342, 359. See Geldart, The
Present Law of Trade Unions and Trade Disputes, p. 24; Hoxie,
Trade Unionism in the United States, p. 231; "Strikes and, Boycotts ", 34 Harv. Law Rev. 880.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BmwNDSIs,

J., dissenting.

257 U.S.

In England, observance of the rules of the contest has
been enforced by the courts almost wholly through the
criminal law or through actions at law for compensation.
An injunction was granted in a labor dispute as early as
1868.2 But in England resort to the injunction has not
been frequent and it has played no appreciable part there
in the conflict between capital and labor. In America the
injunction did not secure recognition as a possible remedy
until 1888.11 When a few years later its use became extensive and conspicuous, the controversy over the remedy
overshadowed in bitterness the question of the relative
substantive rights of the parties. In the storms of protest against this use many thoughtful lawyers joined"
The equitable remedy, although applied in accordance
with established practice, involved incidents which, it was
asserted, endangered the personal liberty of wage-earners.
The acts enjoined were frequently, perhaps usually, acts
which were already crimes at common law or had been
made so by statutes. The issues in litigation arising out
of trade disputes related largely to questions of fact. But
in equity issues of fact as of law were tried by a single
judge, sitting without a jury. Charges of violating an
3
2SpringheadSpinning Co. v. Riley,
3

L. R. 6 Eq. 551.
The earliest case of importance was Sherry v. Perkins, 147 Mass.
212 (1888). But injunctions were granted four or five years earlier.
Commons, History of Labor in the United States, vol. 2, p. 504.
34

,, Government by Injunction" by W. H. Dunbar, 13 Law Quar-

terly Review, 347; "Government by Injunction ", by Charles Noble
Gregory, 11 Harv. Law Rev. 487; "Injunction and Organized
Labor ", by Charles C. Allen, 28 Am. Law Rev. 828; "The Modem
Use of Injunctions "' by F. J. Stimson, 10 Pol. Sci. Quarterly, 189;
"Strikes and Courts of Equity ", by William Draper Lewis, 46 Am.
Law Reg. 1; "Government by Injunction ". by Percy L. Edwards, 57
Albany Law Journal, 8; "The Abuses of Injunction", by Samuel
Seabury, 29 Arena, 561; "Government by Injunction ", by Cornelius
H. Fauntleroy, 69 Cent. Law Journal, 129; "Government by Injunction ", by Thomas F. Hargis, 4 Amer. Fed. 227. See Report of U. S.
Industrial Commission (1901) vol. XVII, p. 611.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BRANDnIs, J., dissenting.

injunction were often heard on affidavits merely, without
the opportunity of confronting or cross-examining witnesses." Men found guilty of contempt were committed
in the judge's discretion, without either a statutory limit
upon the length of the imprisonment, or the opportunity
of effective review on appeal, or the right to release on bail
pending possible revisory proceedings."8 The effect of the
proceeding upon the individual was substantially the
same as if he had been successfully prosecuted for a crime;
but he was denied, in the course of the equity proceedings, those rights which by the Constitution are commonly
secured to persons charged with a crime.
It was asserted that in these proceedings an alleged
danger to property, always incidental and at times insignificant, was often laid hold of to enable the penalties of
the criminal law to be enforced expeditiously without that
protection to the liberty of the individual which the Bill
of Rights was designed to afford; that through such proceedings a single judge often usurped the functions not
only of the jury but of the police department; that, in
prescribing the conditions under which strikes were per3

5In Long v. Bricklayers, etc. Union, 17 Pa. Dist. 984, the judge
prefaced his opinion as follows, "Hardly anything of greater private
or public gravity is ever presented to the court, and yet these matters
are constantly receiving adjudication without a single witness brought
before the judge. It is a bad practice. I confess my inability to determine with any satisfaction from an inspection of inanimate manuscript, questions of veracity. In disposing of the present rule, I am
compelled to find, as best I may from perusing two hundred and
thirty-five lifeless typewritten pages of conflicting evidence, the facts
which must determine respondent's guilt or innocence on the quasicriminal charge of contempt."
16Hake v. People, 230 Ill. 174, 196, discretion of judge; Tinsley v.
Anderson, 171 U. S. 101, 107-108, unlimited commitment; State v.
Erickson, 66 Wash. 639, 641; State v. Chouteau County Court, 51
Mont. 337, 342; Scoric v. United States, 217 Fed. 871, scope of review; People v. Teift, 3 Cow. (N. Y.) 340, Matter of Vanderbilt,
4 Johns. Ch. (N. Y.) 57, admission to bail within discretion of judge,

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

missible and how they might be carried out, he usurped
also the powers of the legislature; and that incidentally
he abridged the constitutional rights of individuals to free
speech, to a free press and to peaceful assembly.
It was urged that the real motive in seeking the injunction was not ordinarily to prevent property from being
injured nor to protect the owner in its use, but to endow
property with active, militant power which would make
it dominant over men. In other words, that, under the
guise of protecting property rights, the employer was
seeking sovereign power. And many disinterested men,
solicitous only for the public welfare, believed that the
law of property was not appropriate for dealing with the
forces beneath social unrest; that in this vast struggle it
was unwise to throw the power of the State on one side or
the other according to principles deduced from that law;
that the problem of the control and conduct of industry
demanded a solution of its own; and that, pending the
ascertainment of new principles to govern industry, it
was wiser for the State not to interfere in industrial
struggles by the issuance of an injunction. 7
After the constitutionality and the propriety of the use
of the injunction in labor disputes was established judicially, those who opposed the practice sought the aid of
Congress and of state legislatures. The bills introduced
varied in character and in scope. Many dealt merely
with rights; and, of these, some declared, in effect, that no
act done in furtherance of a labor dispute by a combination of workingmen should be held illegal, unless it would
"See Final Report of the (U. S.) Industrial Commission (1902);
Final Report of the (U. S.) Commission on Industrial Relations

(1915), (Sen. Doe. 415, 64th Cong., 1st sess.), vol. 1, pp. 52-53,
90-92, vol. 11, testimony of Mr. Gilbert E. Roe, p. 10477; testimony
of Mr. Arthur Woods, p. 10550; testimony of Dr. Frank Goodnow, p.

10599. American Federationist, vol. 7, p. 350; vol. 9, p. 685; vol. 15,

p. 976.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

369

BRANDEIs, J., dissenting.

have been so if done by a single individual; while others
purported to legalize specific practices, like boycotting or
picketing. Other bills dealt merely with the remedy; and
of these, some undertook practically to abolish the use of
the injunction in labor disputes, while some merely limited its use either by prohibiting its issue under certain
conditions or by denying power to restrain certain acts.
Some bills undertook to modify b6th rights and remedies.8
These legislative proposals occupied the attention of Congress during every session but one in the twenty years between 1894 and 1914.11 Reports recommending such legis38

53rd Congress: S. 1563, S. 1898, S. 2253, H. R. 7362, H. R. 7363;
54th Congress: S. 237, S. 1750, S. 2984, H. R. 319; 56th Congress:
S. 4233, H. R. 8917; 57th Congress: S. 1118, S. 4553, H. R. 9678,
H. R. 11060; 58th Congress: H. R. 89, H. R. 1234, H. R. 4063, H. R.
6782, H. . 8136, H. R. 18327; 59th Congress: S. 2829, H. R. 4445,
H. R. 9328, H. R. 17976, H. R. 18171, H. R. 18446, H. R. 18752;
60th Congress: S. 4533, S. 4727, S. 5888, H. R. 69, H. R. 94, H. R.
17137, H. R. 21358, H. R. 21359, H. R. 21454, H. R. 21489, H. R.
21539, H. R. 21629, H. R. 21991, H. R. 22010, H. R. 22032, H. R.
22298, H. R. 26300, H. R. 24781, H. R. 36609; 61st Congress: S. 3291,
S. 4481, H. R. 3058, H. R. 9766, H. R. 10890, H. R. 16026, H. R.
18410, H. R. 20486, H. R. 20680, H. R. 20827, H. R. 21334, H. R.
22566; 62nd Congress: S. 6266, H. R. 4015, H. R. 4651, H. R. 5328,
H. R. 5606, H. R. 9435, H. R. 11032, H. R. 23189, H. R. 21486, H. R.
21595, H. R. 22208, H. R. 22349, H. R. 22354, H. R. 22355, H. R.
23635; 63rd Congress: S. 927, H. R. 1873, H. R. 4659, H. R. 5484,
H. R. 15657-which became the Clayton Act.
3 See note 38, supra. Also 53rd Congress: resolutions to investigate the use of the injunction in certain cases, 26 Cong. Rec. 2466;
56th Congress: debate, 34 Cong. Rec. 2589; 60th Congress: hearings, Sen. Doc. 525; special messageof the President, Sen. Doc. 213,
42 Cong. Rec. 1347; papers relating to injunctions in labor cases, Sen.
Does. 504 and 524; 61st Congress: debate, 45 Cong. Rec. 343; 62nd
Congress: debate, 48 Cong. Ree. 6415-6470; hearings, Sen. Doe.
944; petitions, Sen. Doe. 440; hearings before the House Committee
on the Judiciary, Jan. 11, 17-19, February 8, 14, 1912; hearings before a subcommittee of Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 62nd
Congress, 2nd sess.; 63rd Congress, see debates on H. R. 15657 (the
Clayton Act).

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

lation were repeatedly made by the Judiciary Committee
of the House or that of the Senate; and at some sessions
by both. 0 Prior to 1914, legislation of this character had
at several sessions passed the House;' and in thet year
Congress passed and the President approved the Clayton
Act, § 20 of which is substantially the same as Paragraph
1464 of the Arizona Civil Code. Act of October 15, 1914,
c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, 738.
Such was the diversity of view concerning peaceful
picketing and the boycott expressed in judicial decisions
and legislation in English-speaking countries when in
1913 the new State of Arizona, in establishing its judicial
system, limited the use of the injunction and when in
1918 its Supreme Court was called upon to declare for the
first time the law of Arizona on these subjects. The case
of Truax v. Bisbee Local No. 880, 19 Ariz. 379, presented
facts identical with those of the case at bar.'2 In that case
the Supreme Court made its decision on four controverted
points of law. In the first place, it held that the officials
of the union were not outsiders with no justification for
their acts (19 Ariz. 379, 390).'" In the second place, rejecting the view held by the federal courts and the majority of the state courts on the illegality of the boycott, it
40

54th Congress, House Report No. 2471; 56th Congress, House

Report No. 1987, 2007; 57th Congress, Senate Report No. 1650,
House Report No. 1522; 62nd Congress, House Report No. 612; 63rd
Congress, Senate Report No. 698, House Report No. 627, Conference
Report, Senate Document 585.

41 In the 57th Congress, H. R. 11060 passed the House, 35 Cong.

Rec. 4995. In the 62nd Congress, H. R. 23635 passed the House, 48
Cong. Rec. 6470, 6471.

42 In this case the Supreme Court of Arizona said: "This action is

founded upon the identical facts upon which the case of Truaz v.
Bisbee Local No. 880, 19 Ariz. 379, was founded . . . The questions presented in this record were necessarily decided by this court
in the former hearing of the matter." Truax v. Corrigan,20 Ariz.

7,8.

43 See note 24, p. 362, supra.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BRANzis, J., dissenting.

specifically accepted the law of New York, Montana and
California, citing the decisions of those States (19 Ariz.
379, 388, 390)." In the third place, it rejected the law of
New Jersey, Minnesota and Pennsylvania that it is illegal
to circularize an employer's customers, and again adopted
the rule declared in the decisions of the courts of New
York, Montana, California and Connecticut (19 Ariz. 379,
389).
In deciding these three points the Supreme Court
of Arizona made a choice between well-established precedents laid down on either side by some of the strongest
courts in the .country. Can this court say that thereby it
deprived the plaintiff of his property without due process
of law?
The fourth question riquiring decision was whether
peaceful picketing should be deemed legal. Here, too,
each of the opposing views had the support of decisions of
strong courts." If the Arizona court had decided that by
the common law of the State the defendants might peacefully picket the plaintiffs, its decision, like those of the
courts of Ohio, Minnesota, Montana, New York, 'Oklahoma and New Hampshire, would surely not have been
open to objection under the Federal Constitution; for this
court has recently held that peaceful picketing is not unlawful. American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City CentralTrades Council, supra. The Supreme Court of Arizona
found it unnecessary to determine what was the common
law of the State on that subject, because it construed
Paragraph 1464 of the Civil Code as declaring peaceful
picketing to be legal. In the case at bar, commenting on
the earlier case, the court said: "The statute adopts the
view of a number of courts which have held 'picketing,'
44

See note 28, p. 364, supra.

45 See note 25, p. 362, supra, 2nd paragraph; also Lindsay & Co. v.

Montana Federationof Labor, 37 Mont. 264; ParkinsonCo. v. Building Trades Council, 154 Cal. 581.
46 See note 29, p. 365, supra.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDIs, J., disenting.

257 U. S.

if peaceably carried on for a lawful purpose, to be no violation of any legal right of the party whose place of business is 'picketed,' and whether as a fact the picketing is
carried on by peaceful means, as against*the other view,
taken by the federal courts and many of the state courts,
that picketing is per se unlawful." Shortly before that
decision the Criminal Court of Appeals of Oklahoma had
placed a similar construction upon a statute of that State,
declaring that "the doctrine [that picketing is not per se
unlawful] represents the trend of legal thought of modern times, and is specifically reflected in the statute above
construed." Ex parte Sweitzer, 13 Qld. Cr. 154, 160. See
St. Louis v. Gloner, 210 Mo. 502. A State, which despite
the Fourteenth Amendment possesses the power to impose on employers without fault unlimited liability for
injuries suffered by employees,41- and to limit the freedom
of contract of some employers and not of others,48 surely
does not lack the power to select for its citizens that one
of conflicting views on' boycott by peaceful picketing
which its legislature and-highest court consider will best
meet its conditions and secure the public welfare.
The Supreme Couit of Arizona, having held as a rule of
substantive law that the boycott as here practiced was
legal at common law; and that the picketing was peaceful
and, hence, legal under the statute (whether or not it was
legal at common law), necessarily denied the injunction,
since, in its opinion, the defendants had committed no
legal wrong and were threatening none. But even if this
court should hold that an employer has a constitutional
right to be free from interference by such a boycott or
that the picketing practiced was not in fact peaceful, it
does not follow that Arizona would lack the power to refuse to protect that right by injunction. For it is clear
that the refusal of an equitable remedy for a tort is not
47

Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400.

,8Dominion Hotd v. Arizona, 249 U. S. 265.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BRANDins, J., dissenting.

necessarily a denial of due process of law. And it seems
to be equally clear that such refusal is not necessarily arbitrary and unreasonable when applied to incidents of the
relation of employer and employee. The considerations
which show that the refusal is not arbitrary or unreasonable show likewise that such refusal does not necessarily
constitute a denial of equal protection of the laws merely
because some, or even the same, property rights which areexcluded by this statute from protection by injunction,
receive such protection under other circumstances, or between persons standing in different relations. The acknowledged legislative discretion exerted in classification,
so frequently applied in defining rights, extends equally
to the grant of remedies.4 It is for the legislature to saywithin the broad*limits of the discretion which it possesses-whether or not the remedy for a wrong shall be
both criminal and civil and whether or not it shall be both
at law and in equity.
A State is free since the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment, as it was before, not only to determine what
system of law shall prevail in it, but, alo, by what processes legal rights may be asserted, and in what courts they
may be enforced. Missouriv. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22,31; Iowa
49

In Gooch v. Stephenson, 1 Shepley (Me.) 371 (1836), the plain-

tiff attacked as unconstitutional a statute declaring that no action
of trespass should be brought against an owner of cattle breaking

through an insufficient fence. The court, inter ala, said:

"It has been insisted that justice and the security of rights is best
promoted by maintaining the remedy as it before existed; but that
is an argument which addresses itself to the legislative power, and
was for the legislature to determine
not to the judicial. . ..It
what protection should be thrown around this species of prop-

erty; . . . and Wvhere he [the owner] might invoke the aid of
courts of justice. They have no power to take away vested rights;
but they may regulate their enjoyment."
In this case the public importance of good fences was held to justify the denial of an existing remedy for injuries to property or a
curtailment of the right.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRDEIS, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389. As a State may
adopt or reject trial by jury, Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90; or adopting it may retain or discard its customary incidents, Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68; Brown v. New
Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; as
a State may grant or withhold review of a decision by appeal, Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505; so it may determine for itself, from time to time, whether the protection
which it affords to property rights through its courts shall
be given by means of the preventive remedy or exclusively
by an action at law for compensation.
Nor is a State obliged to protect all property rights by
injunction merely because it prtects some, even if the
attending circumstances are in some respects similar, The
restraining power of equity might conceivably be applied
to every intended violation of a legal right. On grounds
of expediency its application is commonly denied in cases
where there is a remedy at law which is deemed legally
adequate. But an injunction has been denied on groundsof expediency in many cases where the remedy at law is
confessedly not adequate. This occurs whenever a dominant public interest is deemed to require that the preventive remedy, otherwise available for the protection of
private rights, be refused and the injured party left to
such remedy as courts of law may afford. Thus, courts ordinarily refuse, perhaps in the interest of free speech, to
restrain actionable libels. Boston Diatite Co. v. Florence
Manufacturing Co., 114 Mass. 69; PrudentialAssurance
Co. v. Knott, L. R. 10 Ch. App. 142. In the interest of
personal liberty they ordinarily refuse to enforce specifically, by mandatory injunction or otherwise, obligations
involving personal service. Arthur v. Oakes, 63 Fed. 310,
318; Davis v. Foreman, [1894] 3 Ch. 654, 657; Gossardv.
Crosby, 132 Ia. 155, 163, 164. In the desire to preserve

the separation of governmental powers they have declined
to protect by injunction mere political rights, Giles v.

TRUAX v. CORRIGAN.
312.

BRANDES, J., dissenting.

Harris,189 U. S. 475; and have refused to interfere with
the operations of the police department. Davis v. American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 75
N. Y. 362; Delaney v. Flood, 183 N. Y. 323; compare
Bisbee v. Arizona Insurance Agency, 14 Ariz. 313. Instances are numerous where protection to property by way
of injunction has been refused solely on the ground that
serious public inconvenience would result from restraining the act complained of. Such, for example, was the
case where a neighboring land owner sought to restrain a
smelter from polluting the air, but that relief, if granted,
would have necessitated shutting down the plant and this
would have destroyed the business and impaired the
means of livelihood of a large community." There are
also numerous instances where the circumstances would,
according to general equity practice, have justified the
issue of an injunction, but it was refused solely because
the right sought to be enforced was created by statute,
and the courts, applying a familiar rule, held that the remedy provided by the statute was exclusive."
Such limitations upon the use of the injunction for the
protection of private rights have ordinarily been imposed
in the interest of the public by the court acting in the exercise of its broad discretion. But, in some instances, the
' See McCarthy v. Bunker Hill & Sullivan Mining Co., 164 Fed.
927; Bliss v. Anaconda Copper Mining Co., 167 Fed. 342; 186 Fed
789; Cameron Furnace Co. v. Pennsylvania Canal Co., 2 Pearson
(Pa.) 208; Johnson v. United Railways Co., 227 Mo. 423, 450;
Conger v. New York, W. S. & B. R. R. Co, 120 N. Y. 29; Wilkins
v. Diven, 106 Ran. 283; Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. v. Simon,
227 Fed. 906; 231 Fed. 1021.
'Dimmick v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 180
Pa. St. 468; Curran v. Delano, 235 Pa. St. 478; Janney v. Buell, 55
Ala. 408; the mechanics' lien, for instance, is not protected by equitable remedies but only by statutory provisions, Chandler v. Hanna,
73 Ala. 390; Walker v. Daimwood, 80 Ala. 245; Phillips on Mechanics Liens, §§ 307, 308.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Bmwx

s, J., dissenting.

257 U. S.

denial of the preventive remedy because of a public interest deemed paramount, has been expressly commanded by
statute. Thus, the courts of the United States have been
prohibited from stayihg proceedings in any court of a
State, Judicial Code, § 265; and also from enjoining the
illegal assessment and collection of taxes. Revised Statlutes, § 3224; Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189.; Dodge v.
Osborm, 240 U. S. 118. What Congress can do in curtailing the equity power of the federal courts, state legislatures may do in curtailing equity powers of the state
courts; unless prevented by the constitution of the State.
In other words States are free since the adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment as they were before, either to
expand or to contract their equity jurisdiction. The denial of the more adequate equitable remedy for private
wrongs is in essence an exercise of the police power, by
which, in the interest of the public and in order to preserve the liberty and the property of the great majority of
the citizens of a State, rights of property and the liberty
of the individual must be remoulded, from time to time,
to meet the changing needs of society.
For these reasons, as well as for others stated by Mr.
Justice Holmes and Mr. Justice Pitney, [ante, 342, 344,]
in which I concur, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arizona should, in my opinion, be affnrmed:-first, because in permitting damage to be inflicted by means of
boycott and peaceful picketing Arizona did not deprive the
plaintiffs of property without due process of law or deny
them equal protection of the laws; and secondly, because,
if Arizona was constitutionally prohibited from adopting
this rule of substantive law, it was still free to restrict the
extraordinary remedies of equity where it considered their
exercise to be detrimental to the public welfare, since
such restriction was not a denial to the employer either of
due process of law or of equal protection of the laws.

