184

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

257 U. S.

pany for his separate use in partial realization of his
former indivisible and contingent interest in the corporate surplus. It was in substance and effect, not merely
in form, a dividend of profits by the corporation, and
individual income to the stockholder.
The opinion just delivered in United States v. Phellis,
sufficiently indicates the grounds of our conclusion that
the judgment in each of the present cases must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLAiKE took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE VAx DEVANTER

and MR. JUSTICE Mc-

REYNOLDS dissent.

AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY
CENTRAL TRADES COUNCIL ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 2. Argued January 17, 1919; restored to docket for reargument
June 1, 1920; reargued October 5, 1920; restored to docket for
reargument June 6, 1921; reargued October 4, 5, 1921.-Decided
December 5, 1921.
1. A decree of injunction in a labor controversy was entered in the
District Court before the date of the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat.
738, but was pending on appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals
when the act was approved. Held, that the plaintiff had no
vested right in the decree, and that the act was to be regarded
in determining the appeal. P. 201.
2. The irreparable injury to property referred to in the first paragraph of § 20 of the Clayton Act, supra, includes injury to the
business of an employer. P. 202.
3. The second paragraph of § 20 of the Clayton Act does not apply
to a dispute between an employer and persons who are neither
ex-employees nor seeking employment. Duplex PrintingPress Co.
v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443. Held, in this case, that only those
defendants who left the plaintiff's employ when a strike was called

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 185
184.

Syllabus.

by the defendant labor union, as distinguished from those who
had been employed but were laid off some months previously and
those who had not been in the employment, could invoke § 20 in
their behalf. P. 202.
4. The Clayton Act, § 20, in forbidding injunctions to restrain employees, recent or expectant, from the use of peaceful persuasion
in promotion of their side of the controversy, or from obtaining or
communicating information in any place where they may lawfully be, merely declares and stabilizes what was always the best
equity practice. P. 203.
5. Workmen have the right to work for whom they will and to go
freely to and from their place of labor undisturbed by annoying
importunities or by the intimidation of numbers; and their employer has a right, incident to his property and business, that.they
have free access to the place where the business is conducted.
P. 203.
6. The "picketing" of an employer's plant by groups of men stationed near the points of ingress and egress and in neighboring
streets, who importunately intercepted the workmen of the employer or others seeking employment, and whose activities collected
crowds of bystanders and resulted in personal violence, held unlawful and to be enjoined eo nomine, without adding the words
"in a threatening or intimidating manner." Pp. 204, 207.
7. Such "picketing" creates a condition of intimidation in which
there can be no peaceable communication of information or
peaceable persuasion in the sense of the Clayton Act. P. 205.
8. An injunction for the protection of an employer in a strike controversy should be adapted to the facts of the particular case, safeguarding his rights while affording to ex-employees and others
properly acting with them opportunity, consistent with peace
and law, to observe who are still working for the employer, to
communicate with them and to persuade them to join his opponents. Held, in this case, that the strikers and their sympathizers should be limited to one representative for each point of
ingress and egress at the plant, and that all others should be
enjoined from congregating or loitering about the plant or in
neighboring streets affording access thereto, that such representatives should have the right of observation, communication and
persuasion, avoiding abuse, libel or threats, and in their efforts
singly should not obstruct an unwilling listener by importunate
following or dogging of his steps. P. 206.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

257 U. S.

9. An injunction broadly forbidding ex-employees from persuading
employees and would-be employees to leave or stay out of the employment conflicts with the Clayton Act, supra. P. 208.
10. Where the members of a local labor union, though not exemployees within the Clayton Act, have reason to expect reemployment at a plant where wages have been reduced, interference
by them and their union by peaceable persuasion and appeal to
induce a strike against the lowered wages, is not malicious or
without lawful excuse, and the principle against malicious enticement of laborers does not apply. P. 208. Hitchman Coal & Coke
Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229; and Duplex Printing Press Co. v.
Deering, 254 U. S. 443, distinguished.
238 Fed. 728, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

RrviBw of a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed, with important modifications, a decree of
injunction rendered by the District Court at the suit of
the present petitioner against the respondent labor union
and individuals.
Mr. Max Pam, with whom Mr. Harry Boyd Hurd and
Mr. William E. Wheeler were on the briefs, for petitioner.
The statutes of Illinois and the decisions of its Supreme
Court, establishing the rule in that State with respect to
the subject-matter of conspiracy, picketing and persuasion, should prevail. Crim. Code, c. 38, §§ 46, 158, 159.;
Barnes & Co. v. Typographical Union, 232 I!. 424, 431,
434; O'Brien v. People, 216 Ill. 371; Doremus v.*Hennessy, 176 Il1. 608, 614; Purington v. Hinchliff, 219 Ill.
159, 166, 167.
Kemp v. Division No. 241, 255 Ill. 213, does not modify
the Illinois rule contended for by petitioner. Here the
Trades Council arrogated to itself the prerogative to demand from petitioner a change in wages, without meeting
or vote of the petitioner's employees and without authority or request of the employees.
Even the two men who quit the employ had no relation to the initiation of the strike and knew nothing of it

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 187
184.

Argument for Petitioner.

until after the strike had been launched. See Henrici
Co. v. Alexander, 198 Ill. App. 568.
In each of the cases cited by the court below in support
of its opinion there existed a controversy between employer and employee; a strike had been called by the
employees and not by any stranger to the employer, nor
by any outside organization unauthorized to represent or
speak for the employees. In Iron Molders' Union v.
Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45, the company recognized
the unions as the representatives of its employees and
to have authority from them to strike, and in that capacity made the unions defendants.
There is involved here a strict rule of property, upon
which the Supreme Court of Illinois has spoken. The
federal courts will enforce the laws of the State, so construed.
Under the decisions of this court the rule in Illinois
should control. The bill was filed on the basis of diversity of citizenship. Petitioner waived none of its
rights under the laws of Illinois. Burgess v. Seligman,
107 U. S. 20, 33; Bucher v. Cheshire R. R. Co., 125 U. S.
555; Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S. 338.
The rule in Illinois relating to picketing without physical violence is sustained in other States and jurisdictions.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Gee, 139 Fed.
582; Beck v. Teamsters' Union, 118 Mich. 497; Gompers
v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418; Jones v. Van
Winkle Gin & Machine Works, 131 Ga. 336; Sailors'
Union v. Hammond Lumber Co., 156 Fed. 450; Stephens
v. Ohio State Telephone Co., 240 Fed. 759; Vonnegut
Machinery Co. v. Toledo Machine Co., 263 Fed. 192;
Kinloch Telephone Co. v. Local Union No. 2, 265 Fed.
312.
Hitchman Coal & Coke Ca. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229,
and similar cases, sustain petitioner's contentions. The
respondents were engaged in a conspiracy to force the

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

257 U. S.

employees of petitioner, who were satisfied with their
wages or conditions of labor, to abandon their employment, violate their contracts and thereby force the establishment of a new basis of employment between the
petitioner and its employees. They were strangers to
both and interlopers in a situation that was tranquil and
contented and in which they had no interest.
It is not necessary that there should be time contracts.
Employment at will is sufficient.
The law as announced in the Hitchman Case is supported in other States and jurisdictions. See Old Dominion S. S. Co. v. McKenna, 30 Fed. 48, 49; United States
v. Haggerty, 116 Fed. 510; Casey v. Cincinnati Typographical Union, 45 Fed. 135; State v. Glidden, 55 Conn.
46; Jersey City PrintingCo. v. Cassidy, 63 N. J. Eq. 759;
Frank & Dugan v. Herold, 63 N. J. Eq. 443; Flaccus v.
Smith, 199 Pa. St. 128.
In this case the conduct of respondents was so violent
in its lawlessness, so brutal in its practice, that it comes
within the class of cases requiring and justifying injunction because of the resort to intimidation, physical force
and destruction.
The rights of petitioner by final decree were vested before the Clayton Act became law. No retroactive effect
can be given it. While it may be contended that legislation subsequent to adjudication may affect proceedings
between public bodies or between an individual and the
public, no such rule can apply -in a proceeding between
private parties. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Belmont
Bridge Co., 18 How. 421, 431. A final judgment or decree
is property just as much as any other form of property.
Memphis v. United States, 97 U. S. 293, 296, 298; Fisher's
Negroes v. Dabbs, 6 Yerg. (Tenn.) 119; Livingston v.
Livingston, 173 N. Y. 377, 381; Humphrey v. Gerard, 83
Conn. 346; Strafford v. Sharon, 61 Vt. 126; Merchants
Bank v. Ballou, 98 Va. 112; Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S.
595, 600.

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 189
184.

Argument for Respondents.

The Clayton Act was intended to govern the acts of
courts of original jurisdiction and proceedings at nisi
prius and could not practically be invoked on appeal. It
cannot be made applicable to this case, because it is not
a case involving or growing out of a dispute concerning
terms or conditions of employment,-between employer
and employees, or between employers and employees, or
between employees, or between persons employed and
persons seeking employment. There was no strike at
this plant instituted by the employees or with the authority of the employees. There was no controversy or
dispute between the petitioner and its employees. Only
two of the employees left the employ of petitioner, and
neither because of any strike of the employees.
Section 20 of the Clayton Act is further inapplicable
because an injunction was necessary to prevent irreparable injury to property or to a property right for
which there was no adequate remedy at law.
The Clayton Act not only is inapplicable in this case
with reference to the acts of assault and violence and
physical brutality, but also against picketing per se, unattended by acts of physical violence. Montgomery v.
Pacific Electric Ry. Co., 258 Fed. 382; Dail-OverlandCo.
v. Willys-Overland, Inc., 263 Fed. 171; Kinloch Telephone Co. v. Local Union No. 2, 265 Fed. 312.
This court has decided that § 20 of the Clayton Act is
not applicable to cases like this. Paine Lumber Co. v.
Neal, 244 L. S. 459; Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, supra; Eagle Glass & Manufacturing Co. v.
Rowe, 245 U. S. 275; Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443.
Mr. Frank C. Smith for respondents.
There is not a scintilla of evidence that the Trades
Council, or other of the defendants, formed, or attempted
to form, a conspiracy. The testimony of the officers is

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondents.

257 U. S.

that no unlawful act was authorized. Quite true, there.
is a difference of opinion as to what may be considered
lawful. The officers believed that to place pickets on the
streets leading to the plant, to try and persuade workingmen not to go in to work while the strike was on, was
within the 'law. The District Judge, however, was of
the opinion that any kind of picketing was unlawful.
For workingmen to organize into unions and to concentrate their unions under one head, the object of which
is to improve the conditions of the toilers, is not an unlawful combination.
To order a strike is not unlawful. Labor unions have
this right; and to picket a plant, and for pickets to try
to persuade men from taking the places of those who go
out in response to a strike order, is not unlawful. Iron
Molders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45; In re
Heffron, 179 Mo. App. 639; Beaton v. Tarrant, 102 I1.
App. 129; People v. Young, 188 Ill. App. 208; Karges
FurnitureCo. v. Amalgamated, etc., Union, 165 Ind. 421;
Marx & Haas Jeans Clothing Co. v. Watson, 168 Mo.
133; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Wire Drawers' Unions,
90 Fed. 608; Gray v. Building Trades Council, 91 Minn.
171; 18 Am. & Eng. Encyc. of Law, 2d ed., 87; High on
Injunction, 0 1415-j; Levy v. Rosenstein, 66 N. Y. S. 101;
Wood Co. v. Toohey, 186 N. Y. S. 95; Clayton Act, § 20.
An injunction in an industrial dispute should not prohibit either persuasion or picketing. Iron Molders'
Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45; United States
v. Kane, 23 Fed. 748; Allis Chalmers Co. v. Reliable
Lodge, 111 Fed. 264; Beck v. Teamsters' Union, 118
Mich. 497; Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Saxey, 131 Mo.
212; Gray v. Building Trades Council, 91 Minn. 171;
Everett Waddey Co. v. Richmond Typographical Union,
105 Va. 188; People v. Young, 188 Ill. App. 208; In re
Heifron, 179 Mo. App. 639; American Steel & Wire Co. v.
Wire Drawers' Unions, 90 Fed. 608; Pope Motor Car Co.

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 191
184.

Argument for Respondents.

v. Keegan, 150 Fed. 148; Searle Manufacturing Co. v.
Terry, 106 N. Y. S. 438; Kinloch Telephone Co. v. Local
Union No. 2, 265 Fed. 312; Clayton Act, § 20.
Unless this court will hold an agreement to do peaceful
picketing, thus trying to enforce a demand, unlawful.
then the contention that the Council is an unlawful combination is without merit.
The claim that the Council did not represent the workers in the plant is beyond our comprehension. According to the testimony of plaintiff's superintendent, of the
1,300 laid off in November, only about 400 were called
for. He said that 80 or 90 per cent. were old men and
members of the various organizations. If a man is "laid
off ", that does not signify he has severed his connection
with his employer. It was these employees--the 80 or
90 per cent.-who, as members of various organizations,
made complaint to the Council. Furthermore, it is our
contention that none of the remaining 1,300 had severed
their connection with the company. These could have
returned, but did not do so, because of the reduction of
wages. To say that the Council has no right to intercede
in behalf of the employees of the company is absurd.
The principle of "collective bargaining" is now too well
established..
In every case the alleged assaults took place some distance from the plant. Whether justified or not, those
charged with doing picket duty feel that "strikebreakers"
were responsible for the assaults committed.
We contend that the Trades Council was strictly within
its rights in doing peaceful picketing. Lawless acts-if
any were committed-we have not sought to defend.
Kolley v. Robinson, 187 Fed. 415; Iron Molders' Union v.
Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45; Pope Motor Car Co. v.
Keegan, 150 Fed. 148; People v. Young, 188 Ill. App. 208.
The Illinois court, in Kemp v. Division No. 241, 255
Ill. 213, refused to follow rulings in Franklin Union v.

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondents.

257 U. S.

People, 220 I1. 355; and Barnes & Co. v. Typographical
Union, 232 I1. 424. In Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v.
Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, there were contracts not to join
the union. In Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254
U. S. 443, no question of combination or peaceful picketing was considered.
Section 20 of the Clayton Act applies, expressly sanctioning peaceful picketing.
A court is not warranted in enjoining persons from congregating on the sidewalk, or from addressing remarks concerning the business of another, or from distributing circulars. In re Heifron, supra; People v. Young, supra;
Gray v. Building Trades Council, supra; Marx & Haas
Jeans Clothing Co. v. Watson, supra.
To prevent a workingman from exercising the right of
persuasion would deprive him of the right of free speech,
guaranteed by the Constitution. To prohibit his right at
or near the plant, on the streets leading to it, or elsewhere,
is too general. Iron Molders' IUnion v. Allis-Chalmers
Co., 166 Fed. 45; Marx & Haas Jeans Clothing Co. v.
Watson, supra; 18 Am. & Eng. Encyc. of Law, 2d ed., 87;
United States v. Kane, 23 Fed. 748; Kolley v. Robinson,
187 Fed. 415; Kinloch Telephone Co. v. Local Union
No. 2,265 Fed. 312; Clayton Act. § 20.
The plant was not injured, and no injunction should
have issued, because no property right was involved.
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Whalen, 149 U. S. 157.
Labor is not a commodity (Clayton Act, § 6,) and an employer has no property right in his workmen.
The decree of the District Court was fatally defective
because it was vague and ambiguous,-a dragnet. Laurie
v. Laurie, 9 Paige, 234; Avery v. Onillon, 10 La. Ann. 127;
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Iron Molders'
Union v. Allis-Chalmers Co., 166 Fed. 45, 46.
The Clayton Act is retroactive and controlling.

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 193
184.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The American Steel Foundries is a New Jersey corporation operating a large plant for the manufacture of steel
products in Granite City, Illinois. In May, 1914, it filed
a bill in the District Court for the Southern District of
Illinois to enjoin the defendants, the Tri-City Central
Trades Council, and fourteen individual defendants, some
of them officers of the Council, all of them citizens of other
States than New Jersey, from carrying on a conspiracy to
prevent complainant from retaining and obtaining skilled
laborers to operate its plant. The bill charged that the
conspiracy was being executed by organized picketing, accompanied by threats, intimidation and violence toward
persons employed or seeking employment there. The
defendants in their answer admitted that the Central
Trades Council had established a picket upon streets
leading to the plant, with instructions to notify all persons entering it that a strike had been called because of
reduction of wages, and to use all honorable means to persuade such persons not to take the places of the men on
the strike; admitted the participation of individual defendants in the picketing, but denied threats of injury or
violence or responsibility for the violence that admittedly
had occurred. After replication was filed, the cause was
heard. A restraining order issued on filing of the bill, and
a final decree was entered by which defendants were
"perpetually restrained and enjoined from in any way
or manner whatsoever by use of persuasion, threats, or
personal injury, intimidation, suggestion of danger or
threats of violence of any kind, from interfering with,
hindering, obstructing or stopping, any person engaged
in the employ of the American Steel Foundries in connection with its business or its foundry in the City of

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Granite City, County of Madison, State of Illinois, or elsewhere; and from interfering by persuasion, violence or
threats of violence in any manner with any person desiring to be employed by said American Steel Foundries in
its said foundry or plant; and from inducing or attempting to compel or induce by persuasion, threats, intimidation, force or violence or putting in fear or suggestions of
danger any of the employees of the American Steel Foundries or persons seeking employment with it so as to cause
them to refuse to perform any of their duties as employees
of the American Steel Foundries; and from preventing
any person by persuasion, threats, intimidation, force or
violence, or suggestion of danger or violence, from entering into the employ of said American Steel Foundries;
and from protecting, aiding or assisting any person, or
persons in committing any of said acts; and from assembling, loitering or congregating about or in proximity of
the said plant or factory of the American Steel Foundries
for the purpose of doing, or aiding or encouraging others
in doing, any of the said unlawful or forbidden acts or
things; and from picketing or maintaining at or near the
premises of the complainant, or on the streets leading to
the premises of said complainant, any picket or pickets,
and from doing any acts or things whatever in furtherance
of any conspiracy or combination among them, or any of
them, to obstruct, or interfere with said American Steel
Foundries, its officers, agents or employees, in the free
and unrestrained control and operation of its plant, foundry and property and the operation of its business; and
also from ordering, directing, aiding, assisting or in any
manner abetting any person committing any or either of
the acts aforesaid; and also from entering upon the
grounds, foundry or premises of the American Steel
Foundries without first obtaining its consent; and from
injuring or destroying any of the property of the said
American Steel Foundries."

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 195
184.

Opinion of the Court.

There were twelve assignments of error on the appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, but the important ones
which raised the issue in this case were as follows:
"Eighth. Because the complainant was not entitled to
an injunction prohibiting the defendants while on the
streets of Granite City or while in proximity to such
foundry, from trying to persuade strike breakers from
taking the places of the strikers.
"Ninth. Because the complainant was not entitled to
an injunction prohibiting the defendants from stopping
employees of complainant and suggesting to them that
they should not work at such plant while a strike was on.
"Tenth. Because the complainant was not entitled to
an injunction prohibiting the defendants from assembling,
or congregating, in proximity of said foundry, or on the
streets leading to such foundry.
"Eleventh. Because the complainant was not entitled
to an injunction prohibiting the defendants from placing
any picket, or pickets, upon the streets leading to such
foundry, whose duty it was to notify those entering said
foundry that there was a strike on."
The Circuit Court of Appeals modified the final decree
by striking out the word "persuasion" in the four places
in which it occurred, and by inserting after the clause restraining picketing the following: "in a threatening or
intimidating manner." 238 Fed. 728.
The Tri-City Central Trades Council is a labor organization composed of representatives of thirty-seven trade
unions of Granite City, Madison and Venice, adjoining
towns in Illinois, including among them electricians,
cranemen, mill hands, machinists, and stationary engineers. In April, 1914, the complainant, which ordinarily
in full operation employed 1600 men, and whose plant
had been shut down since November of the previous year,
resumed operations with about 350 of its regular men,
150 of whom belonged to the skilled trades, electricians,

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

cranemen, mill hands, machinists and blacksmiths. At
this trial, the works manager testified: "When we opened
April 6th we employed whoever we saw fit, whoever applied for employment at the gate. We only had called
for in round numbers,300 men, and laid off approximately
1300 men. Eighty or ninety per cent. of the employees
were old men. I assume these men were members of
various organizations; I can't state definitely as to that."
When business was resumed in April, half of the skilled
workmen were given wages at rates from two cents to ten
cents an hour below those paid before the plant had shut
down. The Trades Council was advised of this about
April 15th, and appointed a committee to secure reinstatement of the previous wages. The manager of the
complainant told them that he ran an open shop, did not
recognize organized labor and would not deal with the
committee, but would entertain any complaint by an
employee. The Council thereupon, on April 22nd, declared a strike on complainant's plant and displayed outside of the entrance to the plant a printed notice announcing that a strike was on at the plant and calling on union
men and all labor to remain away from the works in order
that an increase in wages might be secured. Only two
men, defendants Churchill and Cook, acted upon the order
to strike. Churchill was a member of the Machinist's
Union. Cook was not a member of any union. The
Council then established a picket, which was carried, on
for three or four weeks without intermission until the bill
was filed on May 18th, and a restraining order issued.
Complainant's plant was in an enclosure of twenty-five
acres and fronted on Niedringhaus Avenue. The Wabash
and other railroads crossed this street and ran along the
side of the plant. There were four tracks. The time
keeper's gate of the plant opened on to the tracks. Directly opposite on the other side of the tracks was the
Wabash depot, from three to four hundred feet from the

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 197
184.

Opinion of the Court.

plant. It was on Niedringhaus Avenue, and this street
was the one used by many of the plant's employees in
going to their homes in Granite City and in reaching the
terminal of the street car line which many used. Complainant's employees testified that, just as the picketing
began, they were warned by some of the defendants that
they would be hurt if they did not quit. The master
mechanic of the plant, Hall, testified that Lamb, one of
the defendants, the national representative of the Machinist's Union at St. Louis, when in company with four
other pickets, handed him the circular of the Trades
Council, and told him, " We don't like the way you have
treated our boys down here, and we just came down to
raise a little hell." Lamb admitted saying to Hall that
the cut in wages was a severe one and that, it looked as
though they were going to raise hell in the town because
conditions were good; that he didn't like to see a fight
going on, but it looked as though it would come. The
evidence showed that the pickets would stand about near
the Wabash tracks, sometimes on the Foundries' side,
sometimes on the depot side, sometimes on Niedringhaus Avenue, and that there were three or four groups of
them varying from four to a dozen in each group. The
headquarters of all the groups was at the Wabash depot.
There was an assault on April 30th, in which one Hafner, an employee, was attacked by three of the picketers.
On May 8th, a man named Crabtree and four other
employees were attacked by a group of more than seven
of the pickets. On May 13th, another assault occurred,
which developed into a mob, and two witnesses for complainant swore positively that the President of the Trades
Council, Galloway, was engaged in this disturbance and
was throwing bricks. There were other assaults, the last
one on May 18th before the restraining order issued that
day reached the picketers. Officers of the company testified that a number of men wounded in these assaults

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

were brought into the plant. All disturbances ceased after
the restraining orders were served.
Galloway testified he was present at the plant three
mornings for about fifteen or twenty minutes, and four or
five evenings for maybe half an hour; that he engaged in
no violence while he was there and saw none; that the
representatives of the Central Trades were there doing
picket duty, and that the closest he saw them to the plant
was 20 feet in front of Wabash depot; that the Central
Trades did not instruct anybody to assault anyone, but
told them to picket the streets leading to the plant, and
ask the men not to go into the plant or take work under
the reduced wages. He said that the pickets were selected
from the different crafts interested in the wages; that the
joint board of the Council placed the pickets where they
were, and the Council then sanctioned this action. He
said he went down there to see that things were .going
right; that they placed the pickets there to prevent, if
possible, the men from entering and working at the plant
until they arbitrated the difference or advanced their
wages to the former scale; that the pickets were not
authorized to commit an unlawful act.
B. F. Lamb, already referred to, visited Granite City
because he had a local union there affiliated with the TriCity Trades Council. He went there three times a week
during the strike, and did picket duty. He was on the
picket line itself, which was about 100 or 120 yards from
the plant. Pickets were merely there to convey information and ask co6peration. He denied that they authorized any assaults and he saw no assaulting. He heard of
some fights which took place away from the plant, but
he was in no way connected with them.
Hartbeck, who was business agent and secretary of the
Blacksmith's Union, said that he acted on the picket line
every time he went over there, sometimes in the evening,
sometimes at noon time. He said the pickets would ap-

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 199
184.

Opinion of the Court.

proach a man and tell him the conditions and request him
to come out; that he did that himself, but that he never
threatened anyone and never used any violence of any
kind. He said: "In my estimation the four or five witnesses who swore to my presence at different times to assault testified falsely.

. .

When the reduction of

wages took effect, I was ordered by the superior of our
District Board to go over there and to have men over
there that would go to work to try to have them come out
if they could under reduction of wages; probably some of
our union men would go in unbeknowns of the trouble.
At the time I went over there none of our men were at
work in the plant because they had been sent- for. But
I went over anyway."
Harry McKenny, a picket, testified that he did assault
one of the fellows there; that he, Churchill and another
picket, were standing together, and that he told a man
named Hafner, an employee, to stay away from the building; that Hafner called him an insulting and profane
name, and said he would work where he pleased, and
that then he hit Hafner; that he never tried to stop anybody from going into the plant by force; that he did hit
Hafner while he was on the picket line; that he did not
hit him because he was going into the works, but just
because he called him a bad name.
Churchill, a striker and picket, said he "never struck
a man over there; merely warned them, asked them to
stay out of there; better keep away." He said that he
was present when Hafner was hit by McKenny for calling
him a bad name, that Hafner begged them not to hit
him again, but McKenny hit him twice.. Then Hafner
said he was going home. Churchill said he was present
when the porter from the plant was bringing in two lunch
baskets, that someone kicked the baskets out of the
porter's hands. Churchill said he was in the "bunch"
standing there but he did not know who the man was

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

that upset them. He said two or three fights took place,
and that he (Churchill) saw the big one with 200 men
in it. He was half a block away.
Ishman, another picketer, said he was a craneman and
resided at Granite City; that he was a member of the
Cranemen's Union, that he did picket duty during the
strike, that he was there quite a bit morning and evening;
that the duty of the pickets was to inform the employees
of the plant that there was a strike on and to inform them
of the conditions under which they were working. He
said that on May 8th, Crabtree, an employee, and four
other employees, were coming across the railroad tracks
from their work; that they had seven pickets there. He
said they got to talking to them and somebody started a
fight; he said somebody made a pass at him and that he
hit somebody. He said they claimed it was Crabtree;
that it was 150 yards from the plant.
Cook, a defendant who was not a union man, went out
with the strike. He said he left because he did not like
his wages, and quit because there was a strike on. Nobody sent him there as a picket, but he joined them, and
they were all together picketing and talking to some men
going to or coming from work. He said he wanted to
quit work and did not want anybody else to work in his
place.
It is clear from the evidence that from the outset, violent methods were pursued from time to time in such a
way as to characterize the attitude of the picketers as continuously threatening. A number of employees, sometimes fifteen or more, slept in the plant for a week during
the trouble, because they could not safely go to their
homes. The result of the campaign was to put employees
and would-be employees in such fear that many abandoned work and this seriously interfered with the complainant in operating the plant until the issue of the
restraining order.

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 201
184.

Opinion of the Court.

The first question in the case is whether § 20 of the
Clayton Act, October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 738, is to
be applied in this case. The act was passed while this
case was pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals. In
Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.443, 464,
a suit to restrain a secondary boycott had been brought
before the passage of the act, but did not come to hearing
until after its passage. It was held that, because relief by
injunction operates in futuro and the right to it must
be determined as of the time of the hearing, § 20 of the
act, relating to injunctions, was controlling in so far that
decrees entered after its passage should conform to its
provisions. The decree here appealed from in the District
Court had been entered before the Clayton Act-passed.
But the whole cause was taken up by the appeal. The
complainant had no vested right in the decree of the
District Court while it was subject to review. Rafferty v.
Smith, Bell & Co., this day announced, post, 226. The
Circuit Court of Appeals was called upon to approve or
to change the decree and was obliged, therefore, to regard
the new statute in its conclusion, and so are we.
Section 20 is as follows:
"That no restraining order or injunction shall be
granted by any court of the United States, or a judge or
the judges thereof, in any case between an employer and
employees, or between employers and employees, or between employees, or between-persons employed and persons seeking employment, involving, or growing out of,
a dispute concerning terms or conditions of employment,
unless necessary to prevent irreparable injury to property, or to a property right, of the party making the application, for which injury there is no adequate remedy
at law, and such property or property right must be described with particularity in the application, which must
be in writing and sworn to by the applicant or by his
agent or attorney.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

"And no such restraining order or injunction shall prohibit any person or persons, whether singly or in concert,
from terminating any relation of employment, or from
ceasing to perform any work or labor, or from recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful
means so to do; or from attending at any place where any
such person or persons may lawfully be, for the purpose
of peacefully obtaining or communicating information,
or from peacefully persuading any person to work or to
abstain from working; or from ceasing to patronize or
to employ any party to such -dispute, or from recommending, advising, or persuading others by peaceful and
lawful means so to do; or from paying or giving to, or
withholding from, any person engaged in such dispute,
any strike benefits or other moneys or things of value; or
from peaceably assembling in a lawful manner, and for
lawful purposes; or from doing any act or thing which
might lawfully be done in the absence of such dispute by
any party thereto; nor shall any of the acts specified in
this paragraph be considered or held to be violations of
any law of the United States."
It has been determined by this court that the irreparable injury to property or to a property right, in the
first paragraph of § 20, includes injury to the business of
an employer, and that the second paragraph applies only
in cases growing out of a dispute concerning terms or
conditions of employment, between an employer and employee, between employers and employees, or between
employees, or between persons employed and persons
seeking employment, and not to such dispute between an
employer and persons who are neither ex-employees nor
seeking employment. Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443. Only two of the defendants, Cook and
Churchill, who left at the time of the strike, can invoke
in their behalf § 20. We must, therefore, first consider
the propriety of the decree as against them, and then as
against the other defendants.

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 203
184.

Opinion of the Court.

The prohibitions of § 20, material here, are those which
forbid an injunction against, first, recommending, advising or persuading others by peaceful means to cease employment and labor; second, attending at any place where
such person or persons may lawfully be for the purpose
of peacefully obtaining or communicating information, or
peacefully persuading any person to work or to abstain
from working; third, peaceably assembling in a lawful
manner and for lawful purposes. This court has already
called attention in the Duplex Case to the emphasis upon
the words "peaceful" and "lawful" in this section. 254
U. S. 443, 473. It is clear that Congress wished to forbid
the use by the federal courts of their equity arm to prevent peaceable persuasion by employees, discharged or
expectant, in promotion of their side of the dispute, and
to secure them against judicial restraint in obtaining or
communicating information in any place where they
might lawfully be. This introduces no new principle into
the equity jurisprudence of those courts. It is merely declaratory of what was the best practice always. Congress
thought it wise to stabilize this rule of action and render
it uniform.
The object and problem of Congress in § 20, and indeed
of courts of equity before its enactment, was to reconcile
the rights of the employer in his business and in the access
of his employees to his place of business and egress therefrom without intimidation or obstruction, on the one
hand, and the right of the employees, recent or expectant,
to use peaceable and lawful means to induce present employees and would-be employees to join their ranks, on
the other. If, in their attempts at persuasion or communication with those whom they would enlist with
them, those of the labor side adopt methods which however lawful in their announced purpose inevitably lead to
intimidation and obstruction, then it is the court's duty
which the terms of § 20 do not modify, so to limit what

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

the propagandists do as to time, manner and place as
shall prevent infractions of the law and violations of the
right of the employees, and of the employer for whom
they wish to work.
How far may men go in persuasion and communication
and still not violate the right of those whom they would
influence? In going to and from work, men have a right
to as free a passage without obstruction as the streets
afford, consistent with the right of others to enjoy the
same privilege. We are a social people and the accosting
by one of another in an inoffensive way and an offer by
one to communicate and discuss information with a view
to influencing the other's action are not regarded as aggression or a violation of that other's rights. If, however,
the offer is declined,-as it may rightfully be, then persistence, importunity, following and dogging become unjustifiable annoyance and obstruction which is likely soon
to savor of intimidation. From all of this the person
sought to be influenced has a right to be free and his employer has a right to have him free.
The nearer this importunate intercepting of employees
or would-be employees is to the place of business, the
greater the.obstruction and interference with the business
and especially with the property right of access of the
employer. Attempted discussion and argument of this
kind in such proximity is certain to attract attention and
congregation of the curious, or, it may be, interested bystanders, and thus to increase the obstruction as well as
the aspect of intimidation which the situation quickly
assumes. In the present case the three or four groups of
picketers, were made up of from four to twelve in a group.
They constituted the picket lines. Each union interested,
electricians, cranemen, machinists and blacksmiths, had
several representatives on the picket line, and assaults
and violence ensued. They began early and continued
from time to time during the three weeks of the strike

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 205
184.

Opinion of the Court.

after the picketing began. All information tendered, all
arguments advanced and all persuasion used under such
circumstances were intimidation. They could not be
otherwise.. It is idle to talk of peaceful communication
in such a place and under such conditions. The numbers
of the pickets in the groups constituted intimidation.
The name "picket" indicated a militant purpose, inconsistent with peaceable persuasion. The crowds they drew
made the passage of the employees to and from the place
of work, one of running the gauntlet. Persuasion or
communication attempted in such a presence and under
such conditions was anything but peaceable and lawful.
When one or more assaults or disturbances ensued, they
characterized the whole campaign, which became effective
because of its intimidating character, in spite of the
admonitions given by the leaders to their followers as to
lawful methods to be pursued, however sincere. Our conclusion is that picketing thus instituted is unlawful and
can not be peaceable and may be properly enjoined by
the specific term because its meaning is clearly understood in the sphere of the controversy by those who are
parties to it. We are supported in that view by many well
reasoned authorities, although there has been contrariety
of view. Barnes & Co. v. Typographical Union, 232 Ill.
424; Franklin Union v. People, 220 Il. 355; Philip
Henrici Co. v. Alexander, 198 Ill. App. 568; Vegelahn v.
Guntner, 167 Mass. 92; Jonas Glass Co. v. Glass
Association, 72 N. J. Eq. 653, s. c. 77 N. J. Eq. 219;
Jersey City Printing Co. v. Cassidy, 63 N. J. Eq. 759;
Frank & Dugan v. Herold, 63 N. J. Eq. 443; Goldberg,
Bowen & Co. v. Stablemen's Union, 149 Cal. 429; Pierce
v. Stablemen's Union, 156 Cal. 70; Local Union No. 31$
v. Stathakis, 135 Ark. 86; Beck v. Teamsters' Union, 118
Mich. 497; In re Langell, 178 Mich. 305; Jensen v: Cooks'
& Waiters' Union, 39 Wash. 531; St. Germain v. Bakery
& Confectionery Workers' Union, 97 Wash. 282; Jones v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

Van Winkle Gin & Machine Works, 131 Ga. 336; Union
PacificR. R. Co. v. Ruef, 120 Fed. 102; Atchison, Topeka
& SantaFe Ry. Co. v. Gee, 139 Fed. 582; Stephens v. Ohio
State Telephone Co., 240 Fed. 759.
A restraining order against picketing will advise earnest
advocates of labor's cause that the law does not look with
favor on an enforced discussion of the merits of the issue
between individuals who wish to work, and groups of
those who do not, under conditions which subject the individuals who wish to work to a severe test of their nerve
and physical strength and courage. But while this is so,
we must have every regard to the congressional intention
manifested in the act and to the principle of existing law
which it declared, that ex-employees and others properly
acting with them shall have an opportunity, so far as is
consistent with peace and law, to observe who are still
working for the employer, to communicate with them and
to persuade them to join the ranks of his opponents in a
lawful economic struggle. Regarding as primary the
rights of the employees to work for whom they will, and,
undisturbed by annoying importunity or intimidation of
numbers, to go freely to and from their place of labor, and
keeping in mind the right of the employer incident to his
property and business to free access of such employees,
what can be done to reconcile the conflicting interests?
Each case must turn on its own circumstances. It is a
case for the flexible remedial power of a court of equity
which may try one mode of restraint, and if it fails or
proves to be too drastic, may change it. We think that
the strikers and their sympathizers engaged in the
economic struggle should be limited to one representative
for each point of ingress and egress in the plant or place
of business and that all others be enjoined from congregating or loitering at the plant or in the neighboring streets
by which access is had to the plant, that such representatives should have the right of observation, communica-

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 207
184.

Opinion of the Court.

tion and persuasion but with special admonition that their
communication, arguments and appeals shall not be
abusive, libelous or threatening, and that they shall not
approach individuals together but singly, and shall not
in their single efforts at communication or persuasion obstruct an unwilling listener by importunate following or
dogging his steps. This is not laid down as a rigid rule,
but only as one which should apply to this case under the
circumstances disclosed by the evidence and which may
be varied in other cases. It becomes a 'question for the
judgment of the Chancellor who has heard the witnesses,
familiarized himself with the locus in quo and observed
the tendencies to disturbance and conflict. The purpose
should be to prevent the inevitable intimidation of the
presence of groups of pickets, but to allow missionaries.
With these views, it is apparent that we can not sustain the qualification of the order of the District Court
which the Circuit Court of Appeals made. That court followed the case of Iron Molders' Union v. Allis-Chalmers
Co., 166 Fed. 45, and modified the order of the District
Court which enjoins defendants "from picketing or maintaining at or near the premises of the complainant, or on
the streets leading to the premises of said complainant,
any picket or pickets" by adding the words "in a threatening or intimidating manner." This qualification seems
to us to be inadequate. In actual result, it leaves compliance largely to the discretion of the pickets. It ignores
the necessary element of intimidation in the presence of
groups as pickets. It does not secure practically that
which the court must secure and to which the complainant and his workmen are entitled. The phrase really
recognizes as legal that which bears the sinister name of
"picketing" which it is to be observed Congress carefully
refrained from using in § 20.
There remains to consider, so far as defendants
Churchill and Cook, the ex-employees, are concerned, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

part of the decree of the District Court which forbade
them by persuasion to induce employees, or would-be
employees to leave, or stay out of, complainant's employ.
The effect of it is to enjoin persuasion by them at any
time or place. This certainly conflicts with § 20 of the
Clayton Act. The decree must be modified as to these
two defendants by striking out the word "persuasion."
The second important question in the case is as to the
form of decree against the Tri-City Trades Council and
the other defendants. What has been said as to picketing
applies to them, of course, as fully as to the ex-employees,
but how as to the injunction against persuasion?
The argument made on behalf of the American Foundries in support of enjoining persuasion is that the TriCity Central Trades Council and the other defendants
being neither employees nor strikers were intruders into
the controversy, and were engaged without excuse in an
unlawful conspiracy to injure the American Foundries by
enticing its employees, and, therefore, should be enjoined.
It is to be noted, that while there was only one member
of the unions of the Trades Council who went out in the
strike, the number of skilled employees then engaged by
the Foundries was not one-quarter of the whole number
of men who would be engaged when it was in full operation. The works manager said that eighty or ninety per
cent. of the employees were old men and that he assumed
these men were members of various organizations. Other
witnesses, members of the unions, testified that they had
been employees of complainant in the previous fall. It
is thus probable that members of the local unions were
looking forward to employment when complainant should
resume full operation and even though they were not exemployees within the Clayton Act, they were directly interested in the wages which were to be paid.
Is interference of a labor organization by persuasion
and appeal to induce a strike against low wages under

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 209
184.

Opinion of the Court.

such circumstances without lawful excuse and malicious?
We think not. Labor unions are recognized by the Clayton Act as legal when instituted for mutual help and lawfully carrying out their legitimate objects. They have
long been thus recognized by the courts. They were organized out of the necessities of the situation. A single
employee was helpless in dealing with an employer. He
was dependent ordinarily on his daily wage for the maintenance of himself and family. If the employer refused
to pay him the wages that he thought fair, he was nevertheless unable to leave the employ and to resist arbitrary
and unfair treatment. Union was essential to give laborers opportunity to deal on equality with their employer.
They united to exert influence upon him and to leave him
in a body in order by this inconvenience to induce him to
make better terms with them. They were withholding
their labor of economic value to make him pay what they
thought it was worth. The right to combine for such a
lawful purpose has in many years not been denied by any
court. The strike became a lawful instrument in a lawful economic struggle or competition between employer
and employees as to the share or division between them of
the joint product of labor and capital. To render this
combination at all effective, employees must make their
combination extend beyond one shop. It is helpful to
have as many as may be in the same trade in the same
community united, because in the competition between
employers they are bound to be affected by the standard
of wages of their trade in the neighborhood. Therefore,
they may use all lawful propaganda to enlarge their membership and especially among those whose labor at lower
wages will injure their whole guild. It is impossible to
hold such persuasion and propaganda without more, to
be without excuse and malicious. The principle of the
unlawfulness of maliciously enticing laborers still remains
and action may be maintained therefor in proper cases,

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

but to make it applicable to local labor unions, in such a
case as this, seems to us to be unreasonable.
The elements essential to sustain actions for persuading employees to leave an employer are first, the malice
or absence of lawful excuse, and, second, the actual injury. The effect of cases cited as authority must be determined by an examination of the pleadings and facts to see
how the malice or lack of lawful excuse was established,
and whether there was not illegality present in the means
used. Thus Walker v. Cronin, 107 Mass. 555, and
Thacker Coal Co. v. Burke, 59 W. Va. 253, suits by an
employer against members of a labor union in which the
right of action for persuading was sustained, were heard
on demurrer to the complaint. The element of malice
was supplied by averment of the complaint, and was, of
course, admitted by the demurrer. There are other cases
in which the persuasion was accompanied by the intent to
secure a breach of contract, or was part of a secondary
boycott or had elements of fraud, misrepresentation or intimidation in it. Perkins v. Pendleton, 90 Me. 166, was
a case of the latter kind. In Lucke v. Clothing Cutters,
77 Md. 396, it was held unlawful in a labor union to seek
to compel an employer to discharge the plaintiff by intimidation, and it was said that the state law authorizing
formation of trade unions to secure most favorable conditions for labor of their members was not a warrant for
making war upon the non-union man or for illegal interference with his rights and privileges. A suit by an employee who seeks to hold a labor union liable for seeking
his discharge by threatening to strike unless his employer
discharges him, stands on a different footing from a mere
effort by a labor union to persuade employees to leave
their employment. There are in such a combination
against an employee the suggestions of' coercion, attempted monopoly, deprivation of livelihood and remoteness of the legal purpose of the union to better its mem-

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. TRI-CITY COUNCIL. 211
184.

Opinion of the Court.

bers' condition, not present in a case like the present.
Without entering into a discussion of those cases which
include Brennan v. United Hatters of North America,
73 N. J. L. 729; Curranv. Galen, 152 N. Y. 33; Berry v.
Donovan, 188 Mass. 354, and Plantv. Woods, 176 Mass.
492, it is sufficient to say they do not apply here.
The counsel for the Steel Foundries rely on two cases
in this court to support their contention. The first is that
of Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229.
The principle followed in the Hitchman Case can not be
invoked here. There the action was by a coal mining
company of West Virginia against the officers of an International Labor Union and others to enjoin them from
carrying out a plan to bring the employees of the complainant company and all the West Virginia mining companies into the International Union, so that the Union
could control, through the union employees, the production and sale of coal in West Virginia, in competition with
the mines of Ohio and other States. The plan thus
projected was carried out in the case of the complainant
company by the use of deception and misrepresentation
with its non-union employees, by seeking to induce such
employees to become members of the Union contrary to
the express term of their contract of employment that
they would not remain in complainant's employ if union
men, and after enough such employees had been secretly
secured, suddenly to declare a strike against complainant
and to leave it in a helpless situation in which it would
have to consent to be unionized. This court held that
the purpose was not lawful, and that the means were not
lawful and that the defendants were thus engaged in an
unlawful conspiracy which should be enjoined. The unlawful and deceitful means used were quite enough to
sustain the decision of the court without more. The
statement of the purpose 6f the plan is sufficient to show
the remoteness of the benefit ultimately to be derived by

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

257 U. S.

the members of the International Union from its success
and the formidable country-wide and dangerous character
of the control of interstate commerce sought. The circumstances of the case make it no authority for the contention here.
Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443,
also cited, can have no bearing here. In that case, the International Association of Machinists, an unincorporated
association, having a membership of more than 60,000,
united in a combination to compel the complainant to
unionize its factory, enforce the closed shop, the eighthour day and the union scale of wages by boycotting the
interstate trade of that company. They conducted in the
City of New York a campaign of threatening the customers of the Printing Press Company, the trucking companies that carried its presses, and those who were engaged
in the work of setting up such presses, with injury to
them in their business, if they continued to deal with the
Duplex Company or its presses. It was a palpable effort
on the part of the International Association of Machinists
to institute a secondary boycott, that is, by coercion, to
use the right of trade of persons having nothing to do with
the controversy between the Duplex Company and the
Machinist's Union, and having no interest in it, to injure
the Duplex Company in its interstate trade. This was decided not to be within § 20 of the Clayton Act, but was
held, following the case of Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274,
to be an unlawful combination in restraint of interstate
trade. The Hitchman Case was cited in the Duplex Case,
but there is nothing in the ratio decidendi of either which
limits our conclusion here or which requires us to hold
that the members of a local labor union and the union
itself do not have sufficient interest in the wages paid to
the employees of any employer in the community to justify their use of lawful and peaceable persuasion to induce
those employees to refuse to accept such reduced wages

MITCHELL FURN. CO. v. SELDEN BRECK CO. 213
184.

Syllabus.

and to quit their employment. For this reason, we think
that the restraint from persuasion included within the injunction of the District Court was improper, and in that

regard the decree must also be modified. In this we agree
with the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
in part and affirmed in part and the case is remanded
to the District Court for modification of its decree in
conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in substance in the opinion and the judgment of the court.

MR. JUSTICE CLRiKE dissents.

ROBERT MITCHELL FURNITURE COMPANY v.
SELDEN BRECK CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 56.

Argued November 7, 1921.-Decided December 5, 1921.

1. A judgment of the District Court dismissing an action upon the
ground that the process served was void and gave no jurisdiction
over the defendant's person, is reviewable directly here. P. 214.
2. The purpose of a state law requiring foreign corporations to appoint local agents upon whom process may be served is primarily
to secure local jurisdiction in respect of business transacted within
the State, and the scope of the agency should not be extended further by implication unless so construed by the state Supreme Court.
P. 215.
3. In an action in Ohio by an Ohio corporation against a Missouri
corporation, upon a contract to be performed in Michigan, negotiated by correspondence and consummated (it seems) in Illinois, it appeared that the defendant had appointed an agent in
Ohio, upon whom process might be served (Ohio Gen. Code, § 179)
and was engaged in building operations there when the contract
was made, but, before the suit, had ceased such operations and
withdrawn its property and men and thereafter it merely filed an

