LAKE ST. ELEV. RD. CO. v. FARMERS' L. & T. CO. 417
Opinion of the Court

an action at common law the shipowner is not liable for injuries inflicted exclusively by negligence of a pilot accepted by
a vessel compulsorily.
An8wer to the firs quetion in the afflmati/oe; to the 8econd
in the negative.

LAKE STREET ELEVATED RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 669. Submitted May 13,1901.-Decided May 27,1901
The action of the Supreme Court of Illinois in this case on April 17, 1901,
was a full compliance with the mandate of this court in this case, 177
U. S. 51.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. Herbert B. Tv.rner and
tion to dismiss.
.

fr. William Ber-y for the mo-

. Clarence A. Knight opposing.

NMR. JUSTICE SHIRAS delivered the opinion of the court.
When this cause was before us at October term, 1899, it was
determined that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois had attached,
as respected the Lake Street Elevated Railroad Company and
its property, before the institution, by the Lake Street Elevated
Railroad Company, in the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois, of a suit involving the same parties and questions as those
in the Federal court; and, accordingly, it was held that the
decree of injunction granted by the Superior Court and affirmed
by the Appellate Court and by the Supreme Court of Illinois,
voL. oL-XXXi-27

S418

S"OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

enjoining and restraining the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
from proceeding with its suit in the Circuit Court of the United States, had been improperly granted; and thereupon the
judgment of the Supreme Court was reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court. 171 U. S. 51, 62.
In pursuance .of the mandate and in conformity with the
opinion of this court, the Supreme Court of Illinois, on April 17,
1901, reversed and set aside the judgment of the Appellate
Court and the injunction decree of the Superior Court.
This action of the Supreme Court of Illinois was a full compliance with the mandate of this court.
But it is now complained that the Supreme Court went further, and beyond our mandate, in directing the Superior Court
to dismiss the bill; and this writ of error was sued out asking
us to supervise and reverse the action of the Supreme Court in
that respect.
But the Supreme Court, in directing a dismissal of the bill,
was in the exercise of its own jurisdiction over the cause pending in the Superior Court of Cook County. Whether it should
order that court to suspend action until the Federal court bad
exhausted its jurisdiction or to dismiss the bill, leaving the parties to abide by the decree of the court whose jurisdiction had
first attached, was for the Supreme Court of Illinois to determine, and as such action in nowise involved any Federal question this court has no jurisdiction to review it.
It cannot be said that, by ordering the dismissal of the bill,
the Supreme Court of Illinois passed upon Federal questions
involved in the litigation in such a sense as to give this court
jurisdiction to review its decree. The record of the case when
here before discloses that, so far as Federal rights were concerned, they were asserted by the defendants in the Superior
Court, and hence the dismissal of the bill, if it affected such
Federal rights at all, was not a decision against the parties invoking them, which alone would give us jurisdiction.
The writ of error is
Dirmied.

