REAGAN v. UNTED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

REAGAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT Op C

.

ITo. 239. Argued April 15,1901.-Deolded May 27,190L

In 1896, commissioners appointed by judges of the United States Court
in the Indian Territory were inferior officers, not holding their offices for
life, or by any fixed tenure, but subject to removal by the appointing
power.
Commissioners appointed by that court prior to the act of March 1, 1895,
were entitled to reappointment under that act, but were removable at
pleasure unless at that date, or at the date of removal, causes for removal were prescribed by law.
As-no causes for removal had been prescribed by law at the date of the removal of claimant in 1896, he was subject to removal by the judge of his
district, and the action of that judge in removing him was not open to
review in an action for salary.

APPELLANT filed his petition in the Court of Claims, October 13, 1897, and an amended petition October 27, 1899, seeking to recover salary as United States Commissioner in the
Indian Territory, at the rate of $1500 per annum, from February 1, 1896, to September 30, 1899, aggregating $5375.
The findings of fact and conclusion of law were as follows:
"I. The claimant was, on the 25th day of April, 1893, appointed by the United States court for the Indian Territory
United States commissioner within said Territory, under the provisions of section 39 of an act of Congress approved May 2,
1890, chapter 182, (1st Suppl. Rev. Stat. 737,) and upon the
1st day of March, 1895, the claimant was one of the present
commissioners, then holding office under an existing appointment. On April 17, 1895, the following order was entered of
record in the United States court in the Indian Territory,
Southern District:
" It appearing from the records of this court that the said
William R. Reagan was a duly appointed, qualified and acting
commissioner for the United States court for the Third Judicial Division of the Indian Territory, located at Chickasha, on

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

the 1st day of March, 1895, it is hereby ordered that in accordance with the act of Congress approved March 1, 1895, the said
William R. Reagan be, and he is hereby, continued in office, and
the bond hereinbefore recited be, and the same is, in all things
C. B. KILGORE, Judge."
approved and confirmed.
"IT. He continuously performed the duties and received the
salary of said office until the 31st day of January in the year
1896, when the following letter was entered upon the records
of the United States court in the Indian Territory, in the Southern District, by the Hon. Constantine B. Kilgore, judge of said
court:
C 'ARDMORE,

I
TN
CHAMBERS,
INDIANI TERRITORY, January 318t, 1896.

"'TON. WILLAm R. REAGAN, United States commissioner for

the fourth commissioner's district in and for the southern
district of the Indian Territory.
"'Sir: I feel it my duty to declare the office of commissioner in that district vacant and to notify you that you are no
longer United States commissioner for that district, and your
successor will be named at once.
"' There are many reasons which I could assign for my action
in this behalf, but I will only suggest one now, that is, your
age and the infirmities incident thereto render you, in my judgment, in many respects unfit for the office.
'Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
'C . B. KILGORE,
"'Judge U. S. Dist. Court, S. Dist.'
"The letter was not sent to the claimant or served upon him.
No other statement of cause was made. The claimant was
given no notice of any charge against him. No hearing was
allowed the claimant and no opportunity to submit proof in his
defence.
"III. The claimant protested that said letter was insufficient
to effect his removal, and duly served such protest upon the
Hon. Constantine B. Kilgore, judge of said court.
"IV. On February 10, 1896, one John R. Williams, who had

REAGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

been designated by said judge as United States commissioner in
the claimant's place, came to claimaint's office with two armed
deputy marshals, and, presenting his order of appointment, demanded possession of the dockets, books, and papers belonging
to claimant's office as United States commissioner.
"V. The order of appointment of said Williams is as follows:
"'IN CHAMBERS,

"'ARDmoRE, INDIAN TERRIToRY, January 31st, 1896.

"'John R. Williams, a resident of Ryan, Southern District of
Indian Territory, is hereby appointed United States commissioner in and for the Fourth District of the Southern District of
the Indian Territory.
"'Said appointment to take effect at once.
"'It is further ordered that said commissioner shall reside at
Ryan, and that he shall hold court at Ryan and at the town of
Duncan in said district until further ordered, the time to be divided so as to dispose of the business at both points, which time
shall be determined upon hereafter.
"' . B. KILGoRE,
AcJdge U. S. Ot., So. Dist.
"VI. The claimant protested and refused to recognize said
Williams as his successor'in said office, excepting so far as he
was compelled thereto by the exercise of superior force on the
part of the deputy marshals aforesaid and said Williams. Thereupon the claimant and said Williams joined in the following
instrument of writing:
cc( DuNoAN, INDIAN TmiTToRY,
Southern Di8triot.
"' This instrument of writing witnesseth:
"' That whereas C. B. Kilgore, judge of the United States court
for the Southern District of the Indian Territory, on the 31st
day of January, A. D. 1896, made, and caused to be entered
upon the docket of his court at Ardmore, Indian Territory, an
order declaring my office of United States Commissioner for the
Ryan division of said district vacant; and at the same time appointing John R. Williams to be my successor in said office,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and the said Reagan having appealed to the courts of the United
States from said order, on the ground that said order is contrary
to the law:
"'Now, therefore, it is agreed by and between the parties hereto that said Reagan will turn over and surrender the dockets,
books, and papers belonging to said office under protest, and
that said Williams receives the same with the understanding
that said Reagan yields no rights by so doing that he would
otherwise have.
"Witness our hands this 10th day of February, A. D. 1896.
"'JNo. R. WILLmI&Ss.
"'Wm. R. REAGAN.'
"VII. The claimant received a salary of $1500 per annum
up to the 3d day of February, 1896, but since that date has
not been paid said salary or any part thereof.
"VIII. Claimant took no other or further action to assert
his claim to said office or to obtain a reversal of the action of
Judge Kilgore until the institution of this proceeding.
"IX. From-the 3d day of February, 1896, until the 7th day
of October, 1897, John R. Williams, who was appointed by
Judge Kilgore to said office in claimant's stead, exercised said
office and was paid the salary thereof. On said date one Horace
M. Wolverton was appointed as the successor of said John R.
Williams by Hon. Hosea Townsend, United States judge for
said district, and since that time has exercised said office and
has been paid the salary thereof.
"X. From the 3d day of February, 1896, until the commencement of this action, the disbursing clerk of the Department of
Justice paid to the persons who succeeded claimant to said office
the salary of said office in the absence of any notice on the part
of claimant that he claimed to be lawfully entitled to said office
and the salary thereof, or any claim or demand on the part of
claimant for the payment to him of such salary for said period
of time or any part thereof.
"Concluion of Law.
"Upon the foregoing findings of fact, the court decide, as a
conclusion of law, that the petition be dismissed."

REAGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Judgment was thereupon rendered dismissing the petition,
and the case was brought to this court by appeal The opinion
below is reported 35 C. C1. 90.
-Mr. William B. King for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradtfor appellee.
MR. CnEF JUsTicE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Section 39 of the act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 98, c. 182, provided:
"That the United States court in the Indian Territory shall
have all the powers of the United States Circuit Courts or Circuit Court judges to appoint commissioners within said Indian
Territory, who shall be learned in the law, and shall be known
as United States commissioners; but not exceeding three commissioners shall be appointed for any one division, and such commissioners when appointed shall have, within the district to be
designated in the order appointing them, all the powers of commissioners of Circuit Courts of the United States.
"They shall be e. officio notaries public, and shall have power
to solemnize marriages.
"The provisions of chapter ninety-one of the said laws of Arkansas, regulating the jurisdiction and procedure before justices.
of the peace, are hereby extended over the Indian Territory;
and said commissioners shall exercise all the powers conferred
by the laws of Arkansas upon justices of the peace within their
districts ; but they shall have no jurisdiction to try any cause
where the value of the thing or the amount in controversy exceeds one hundred dollars."
The act of March 1, 1895, 28 Stat. 693, c. 145, provided for
additional judges of the court, and by section 4:
"That each judge of said court shall have the powers conferred by law upon the United States Circuit Courts to appoint
commissioners within the district in which he presides, who, at
the time of their appointment, shall be duly enrolled attorneys
of some court of record of the United States or of some State,

OCTOBER TERUI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and shall be competent and of good standing, and shall be
known as United States commissioners, but not exceeding six
commissioners shall be appointed for any district hereinbefore
constituted:
"Provided, That the present commissioners shall be included
in that number and shall hold office under their existing appointments, subject to removal by the judge of the district
where said commissioners reside, for causes prescribed by law.
The judge for each district may fix the place where, or the
time when, each commissioner shall hold his regular terms of
court.
"The order appointing such commissioners shall be in writing and shall be spread upon the records of one of the courts-of
the district for which they are appointed; and such order shall
designate, by metes and bounds, the portion of the district for
which they are appointed. They shall have all the powers of
commissioners of the Circuit Courts of the United States.
"They shall be ex offlcio notaries public and ex oflcio justices of the peace within and for the portion of the district for
which they are appointed, and shall have the power as such to
solemnize marriages."
Appellant was appointed a commissioner April 25, 1893, and
was such on March 1, 1895. In view of the proviso he was
continued in office until January 31, 1896, when he was removed by the judge of the district where he resided, and another person appointed.
He now -contends that the removal was void, because the
cause assigned for the -action of the judge was not a "cause
prescribed by law," and because he was given no notice. of any
charge against him, and no hearing, contrary to the statute.
The commissioners appointed by the judges of the United
States Court in the Indian Territory are inferior officers, not
holding their offices for life, or by any fixed tenure, and they
fall within the settled rule that the power of removal is incident
to the power of appointment. Exlparte HZennen, 13 Pet. 230,
258; Parsonsv. United States, 167 U. S. 324. But it is assumed that because of the language of the proviso, commission.ers atppointed by the court prior to March 1, 1895, formed an

REAGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

exceptional class from commissioners appointed by the judges
of that court after that date, and hold office until they are removed for causes prescribed by existing law, or until Congress
passes a law defining such causes. The latter view may be rejected at once, for the words "causes prescribed by law," manifestly relate to causes prescribed when the act was approved,
or at least when the removal was made. Not only is there
nothing here to give them any other meaning, but it cannot be
presumed that Congress intended to forbid the exercise by the
judges of their power in the matter of these appointments in
the instance of these particular commissioners, br to provide
that they should hold office during life, or until Congress should
specify causes subjecting them to removal, while all other commissioners were removable at the will of the power appointing
them.
The proviso was enacted apparently out of abundant caution
lest the legislation in respect of the United States Court in the
Indian Territory might operate in itself to turn the then commissioner out of office, and if Congress had intended in addition
that they should hold office free from the rule applicable to
others, we think that the intention would have been plainly
expressed.
The inquiry is therefore whether there were any causes of
removal prescribed by law, March 1, 1895, or at the time of
the removal. If there were, then the rule would apply that
where causes of removal are specified by constitution or statute,
as also where the term of office is for a fixed period, notice and
hearing are essential. If there were not, the appointing power
could remove at pleasure or for such cause as it deemed sufficient.
The suggestion that the proviso refers to such causes as courts
might recognize as just will not do, for "prescribed by law" is
prescribed by legislitive act, and removal for cause, when causes
are not defined nor removal for cause provided for., is a matter
of discretion and not reviewable.
It does not appear that any causes for removal of these court
officers were ever affirmatively specified by Congress; but it is
said that Congress had prescribed such causes by the adoption

OCTOBER TERM , 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

in the Indian Territory of certain laws of Arkansas. By section thirty-one of the act of May 2, 1890, some of those laws
were put in force in the Indian Territory, and by section thirtynine the commissioners were authorized to exercise all the
powers conferred by the laws of Arkansas on justices of the
peace within their districts, and the provisions of chapter ninetyone of those laws regulating the jurisdiction of and procedure
before justices of the peace were extended to that Territory.
By the act of March 1, 1895, these were regenacted, and chapters forty-five and forty-six of Mansfield's Digest, treating of
criminal law and criminal procedure, were also put in force
there.
The argument is that the effect of these provisions was to
put the commissioners in the place of justices of the peace in
Arkansas, and that consequently the causes prescribed by law
for the removal of justices of the peace must be taken as prescribed by law as causes for the removal of commissioners.
In our opinion this conclusion does not follow. In order to
clothe the commissioners with the powers pertaining to justices
of the peace, this was conveniently accomplished by reference,
but that did not convert these officers of the United States
Court in the Indian Territory into justices of the peace or
change the relations between them and the judges of that court.
Justices of the peace in Arkansas by state constitution and
laws hold office for two years, and cannot be removed except
for cause, and on notice and hearing. The commissioners hold
office neither for life, nor for any specified time, and are within
the rule which treats the power of removal as incident to the
power of appointment, unless otherwise provided. By chapters forty-five and forty-six, justices of the peace on conviction
of the offences enumerated are removable from office, but these
necessarily do not include all causes which might render the
removal of commissioners necessary or advisable. Congress
did not provide for the removal of commissioners for the causes
for which justices of the peace might be removed, and if this
were to be ruled otherwise by construction, the effect would be
to hold the commissioners in office for life unless some of those
specially enumerated causes became applicable to them.

SIMON v. CRAFT.
Statement of the Case.

We agree with the Court of Claims that this would be a most
unreasonable construction and would restrict the power of removal in a manner which there is nothing in the case to indicate
could have been contemplated by Congress.
If causes of removal had been prescribed by law before the
removal of appellant that would have presented a different question, but as there were then none such, the proviso did not
operate to take him out of the rule expounded in EX Parte
Hennen, and the mere fact that in that particular this part of
the proviso was inoperative as to him did not change the result..
Judgment afwimed.

SIMON v. CRAFT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF AIA.BAMA.

No. 191. Argued March 12,1901.-Decided May 27,1901.
The essential elements of due process of law are notice and opportunity to
defend, and in determining whether such rights are denied, the court is
* governed by the substance of things and not by mere form.
A person charged with being of unsound mind is not denied due process
of law by being refused an opportunity to defend, when, in fact, actual
notice was served upon him of the proceedings, and when, if he had
chosen to do so, he was at liberty to make such defences as he deemed
advisable,
The due process clause in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
does not necessitate that the proceedings in a state court should be by a
particular mode, but only that there shall be a regular course of proceedings, in which notice is given of the claim asserted, and an opportunity afforded to defend against it.
This court accepts as conclusive the ruling of the Supreme Court of Alabama that the jury which passed upon the lunacy proceeding'considered
in this case was a lawful jury, that the petition was in compliance with
the statute, and that the asserted omissions in the recitals in the vefdict
and order thereon were at best but mere irregularities which did not
render void the order of the state court, appointing a guardian.

THs is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme

