SIMON v. CRAFT.
Statement of the Case.

We agree with the Court of Claims that this would be a most
unreasonable construction and would restrict the power of removal in a manner which there is nothing in the case to indicate
could have been contemplated by Congress.
If causes of removal had been prescribed by law before the
removal of appellant that would have presented a different question, but as there were then none such, the proviso did not
operate to take him out of the rule expounded in EX Parte
Hennen, and the mere fact that in that particular this part of
the proviso was inoperative as to him did not change the result..
Judgment afwimed.

SIMON v. CRAFT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF AIA.BAMA.

No. 191. Argued March 12,1901.-Decided May 27,1901.
The essential elements of due process of law are notice and opportunity to
defend, and in determining whether such rights are denied, the court is
* governed by the substance of things and not by mere form.
A person charged with being of unsound mind is not denied due process
of law by being refused an opportunity to defend, when, in fact, actual
notice was served upon him of the proceedings, and when, if he had
chosen to do so, he was at liberty to make such defences as he deemed
advisable,
The due process clause in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
does not necessitate that the proceedings in a state court should be by a
particular mode, but only that there shall be a regular course of proceedings, in which notice is given of the claim asserted, and an opportunity afforded to defend against it.
This court accepts as conclusive the ruling of the Supreme Court of Alabama that the jury which passed upon the lunacy proceeding'considered
in this case was a lawful jury, that the petition was in compliance with
the statute, and that the asserted omissions in the recitals in the vefdict
and order thereon were at best but mere irregularities which did not
render void the order of the state court, appointing a guardian.

THs is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1900
Statement of the Case. -

Court of 'Alabama affirming a judgment in favor of John T.
Craft, the defendant in error herein. The judgment thus affirmed was entered by a lower state tribunal upon a verdict
rendered on the second trial of an action in ejectment, wherein
Jetta Simon, plaintiff in error herein, was plaintiff.
In brief, the facts are as follows: In 1889, JettE Simon, a
widow, resided in Mobile, Alabama, with several minor children, She lived at that time in a house of which she wag the
owner, being the real estate affected by the action of ejectment
heretofore referred to. On January 30, 1889, Ralph G. Richard filed in the probate court of 'Mobile County, Alabama, a
petition for an inquisition of lunacy as to Mrs. Simon. In this
petition it was represented that Richard was a friend of Mrs.
Simon and of her family; that she was of the age of forty-nine
years, a resident of Mobile, of unsound mind and incapable of
governing herself or of conducting and managing her affairs.
Upon this petition an order was entered for a hearing on February 6, 1889, and that a jury "be drawn, as the law directs,
for the trial of this issue." The order also provided that a writ
issue to the sheriff, "requiring him to take the said Jetta Simon,
so that he have her in this court to be presented at said trial,
if consistent with the health and safety of said Simon." The
writ issued. Therein was stated the substance of the allegations of the petition, and that the order had been entered appointing February 6, 1889, "for hearing said petition and for
the due trial, thereof." The command of the writ was that"If it be consistent with the health and safety of said Jetta
Simon, you are hereby required to take her body, so'that you
may have her in said court, to be present at said trial, and before the jury then to be empanelled to make said inquisition.
"And have you then and there this writ with your return
thereon as to how you have executed the same."
The writ was duly returned with the following endorsement:
"Received January 31st, 1889, and on the same day I exe:
cuted the within writ of arrest by taking into my custody the
within-named Jetta Simon and handing her a copy of said
writ, and as it is inconsistent with the health or safety of
the within-named Jetta Simon to 'have her present at the place

SIMON u. CRAFT.
Statement-of the Case.

of trial, and on the advice of Dr. H. P. Hirshfield, a physician,
whose certificate is hereto attached, she is not brought before
the honorable court.

CcW. H. HonoME,-Sheiff.

"Mobile, February 5th, 1889. By Wx. H. SHEFFIELD, D. S."
The certificate referred to reads as follows:
"MoBiLE, ALA., Jan. 30tA, 1.889.

"To the Sheriff of Mobile County, Ala.:
", H.P. Hirshfield, a regular physician, practicing in Mobile
County, Ala., hereby certify that I am acquainted with Mrs.
Jetta Simon, and have examined her condition on yesterday
and find that she is a person of unsound mind, and it would
not be consistent with her health or safety to have her present
in court in any matter now pending.
"H. P. HIRSHFIELD, M. W1"
One Vaughan was appointed by the probate court the guardian ad.Zitem of Mrs. Simon "in the matter of the petition to
inquire into her lunacy." The appointment was accepted, and
the guardian filed in said proceeding an answer averring "that
he wholly denies all the matters and things stated and contained
in said petition, and requires strict proof to be made thereof
according to law." Thereupon a hearing was had before a
jury, who returned a verdict that Mrs. Simon was "of unsound
mind." The probate court then entered the following order or
decree:
"JETrA

SIMoN, Lunatic.

TEOF ALIAB/AA

.A1STAE

Cournty. jA

Probate Court of said County,

- "February
6th, 1889.
"This being the day appointed, by reference to an entry
thereof made upon the minutes of the court on the 30th of
January, 1889, for the hearing of the petition of Ralph G. Richard, filed, alleging the lunacy of the said Jetta Simon and praying an inquisition thereof, and it being shown that it would not
be consistent with the health and safety of said lunatic to bring
her into court at this time, and it appearing that due process

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

had been served upon said lunatic notifying her of this proceeding, now comes the said Richard and a jury of good and lawful
men, who reside in the county of Mobile, and who, having been
summoned, to wit, John Pollock, Jr., and eleven others, who,
having heard the evidence, the arguments of counsel, and the
charge of the court in the premises, and being first duly tried,
empanelled and sworn well and truly to make inquisition of the
facts alleged in said petition and a true verdict to render according to the evidence, upon their oath say, 'We, the jury, find
Mrs. Jetta Simon to be of unsound mind.'
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed by the court that said
petitioil and all other proceedings thereon, together with the
aforesaid verdict of said jury declaring the said Jetta Simon a
lunatic, be recorded."
Subsequently, on February 11, 1889, Richard was duly appointed guardian of the estate of Mrs. Simon, and regular proceedings were had by which, under authority of the court, a
sale of the real estate in question was ordered to be made for
the payment of the debts of Mrs. Simon and for the support
and maintenance of her family. Such sale was had in May,
1889, when Henry J. Simon became the purchaser, who sold
the property to John N. Craft, defendant in error herein. In
September, 1895, more than six years after the sale to Simon,
the action in ejectment heretofore referred to was instituted
against one Brown, a tenant of Craft. Craft, as landlord, was
subsequently substituted in the stead of Brown. Upon a second trial of the issues joined, the defendant Craft, among other
evidence, introduced the record of the proceedings in the probate court upon the inquisition of lunacy, to which reference
has already been made, and the record of the subsequent proceedings .resulting in the'sale to Henry J. Simon. Objection
to the introduction of such records was made upon specified
grounds, all of which are stated in the margin.' The objec:1st. In that there was no process issued notifying Jetty Simon to be
present at the trial of the inquest of lunacy that was held.
2d. In that no provision was made in or by said proceedings whereby
said Jetty Simon might be present at the inquest of lunacy that was held.
3d. In that the writ of arrest issued for the body of Jetty Simon was

SiMON v. CRAFT.
Opinion of the Court.

tions were overruled and the record allowed to be read in evidence, to which action of the court exception was duly taken.
The approval by the Supreme Court of Alabama of this ruling
is what is here complained of.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama reversing the
judgment entered on a-verdict in favor of Mrs. Simon rendered
at the first trial of the action of ejectment is contained in 118
Alabama, 625. The judgment entered in favor of Craft upon
the second trial was affirmed upon the authority of the previous
opinion.
.fr. Harry T. Smith for plaintiff in error.
Smith was on his brief.
M '.H. PilanB for defendant in error.

Mr. Gregory L.

Mr.D. P. Beetor

was on his brief.
M .JusTo WmTE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

By subdivision 6 of section 187 of the Civil Code of Alabama
of 1886 courts of probate in that State are vested with original
jurisdiction over the appointment and removal of gdardians for
minors and persons of unsound mind. Pertinent provisions of
conditional in form and conferred upon the sheriff the power to determine whether it should be executed or not..
4th. In that the writ of arrest left it.to the judgment of the sheriff
whether the said Jetty Simon should be allowed to appear at the trial of
the inquest of lunacy.
5th. In that the writ of arrest authorized the sheriff to restrain Jetty
Simon of her liberty and deprive her of the opportunity to be heard at the
inquest of lunacy.
6th. In that the sheriff's return .shows that under the writ of arrest he
restrained Jetty Simon of her liberty and did not permit her to be present
at the trial of the inquest of lunacy.
7th. Because the statute under which Jetty Simon was restrained of her
liberty and deprived of her property is in conflict with article V of the
amendments to the Constitution of the United States, which provides,
"Nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,"
and in conflict with article XIV of the amendments to said Constitution:

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the statutes of Alabama relating to the mode of appointment
of guardians of persons of unsound mind, contained in said
Civil Code, are excerpted in the margin.'
In the proceedings to inquire into the sanity of Mrs. Simon
the writ which issued to the sheriff was evidently based upon
the following clause of section 2393 of the Civil Code of 1886:
la. In that it authorizes a citizen to be deprived of his or her liberty
without due process of law.
2a. In that it authorizes a citizen to be deprived of his or her prbperty
without due process of law.
8th. Because said proceedings in the probate court are irrelevantand immaterial tooany issue in the cause.
' Sundry sections of Part 2, Title 5, Chapter 4, of the Civil Code of Alabama of 1886, pp. 535, et 8eq.:
"2390 (2753, 2754). Appointment.-The court of probate has authority,
and it is a duty to appoint guardians for persons of unsound mind residing
in the county, having an estate, real or personal, and of persons of unsound
mind residing without the State, having within the county property requiring the care of a guardian, under the limitations, and in the mode hereinafter prescribed.
"12391. Guardian not appointed until after inquisition.-A guardianfora
person alleged to be of unsound mind, residing in'the county, must not be
appointed until an inquisition has been had and taken as hereinafter directed.
"2392 (2757). Inquisition; proceedings.-Upon the petition of any of the
relatives or friends of any person alleged to be of unsound mind, setting
forth the facts and name, sex, age and residence of such person, accompanied by an affidavit that the petitioner believes the facts therein stated
to be true, the court of probate of the county in which such person alleged
to be of unsound mind resides, must appoint a day, not more than ten days
from the presentment of such petition,.for the hearing thereof.
"2393 (2758). Jury summoned; writ of arrest.-The judge of probate
must issue a writ directed to the sheriff, commanding him to summon
twelve disinterested persons of the neighborhood for the trial thereof,
and also issue subpcenas for witnesses, as the parties may require, returnable to the time of trial; he must also issue a writ directed to the sheriff
to take the person alleged to be of unsound mind, and, if consistent with
his health or safety, have him present at the place of trial.
"2394 (2759). Oaths of jurors; vacancies filled.-At the time set for the
trial, if good cause be not shown for continuance, the jury must be impanelled and sworn well and truly to make inquisition of the facts alleged
in the petition, and a true verdict render according to the evidence. If
any of the jurors are excused from serving, fail to attend, or are set aside
for any cause, their places may be supplied from the bystanders.

SIMON v. CRAFT.
Opiinion of the Court.

"2393. The judge of probate . . . must also'issue a writ
directed to the sheriff to take the person alleged to be of unsound mind, and, if consistent with his health or safety, have
him present at the place of trial."
The invalidity of the proceedings in the inquisition of lunacy
which formed the-basis of the subsequent proceedings for the
sale of the property of Mrs. Simon is in substance predicated on
the contention that the writ directed to the sheriff authorized
that official to determine whether it, was consistent with the
health and safety of Mrs. Simon to be present at the trial of
the question of her sanity; that the sheriff decided this question
against her, and she. was detained in custody and not allowed
to be present at the hearing 'on the inquisition. The latter
claim, however, is founded upon the return, endorsed by the
sheriff on the writ directed to him. At the *trial below there
"2395 (2760). On verdict of insanity,
pointed.-If the jury find by their verdict
tition are true, and that such person is of
cause the petition and all the proceedings
point a suitable guardian of such person.

papers filed, and guardian apthat the facts alleged in the peunsound mind, the court must
thereon to be recorded, and ap-

"2396 (2761). Proceedings when person of unsound mind isconfined in
asylum.-If the person alleged to have been of unsound mind is a resident
of the county, and Is at the time of the application confined in an hospital
or asylum within or without the State, the inquisition may be had or taken
without notice to him, but on the filing of the application the court must
appoint a guardian ad litem to represent and defend for him; it is the duty
of such guardian by'answer to put in issue the facts stated in the application, and to employ counsel at the expense of such person of unsound mind
to appear and defend.
"2397 (2804). Application for revocation of guardianship.-At any time
after the inquisition the person ascertained to be of unsound mind, by himself'or by next friend, may apply in writing to the court of probate for a
revocation of the proceedings against him, and of the letters of guardianship; the application to be accompanied by the certificate in writing of
two physicians or of two other competent persons, stating that after examination of such person they believe him to be of sound mind.
"2398 (2804). Proceedings on application.-On the filing of such application the court must appoint a day for the hearing thereof, not more than
ten days thereafter, and the guardian and the person at whose-instance the
inhuisition was had and taken must be cited to appear and show cause
against it.

VOL. CLXXXII-2S

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of thu Court.

was no offer to prove, by any form of evidence, that Mrs. Simon
was in fact of sound mind when the proceedings in lunacy were
instituted, or that she desired to attend, and was prevented from
attending, the hearing, or was refused opportunity to consult
-with and employ counsel to represent her. The entire case is
thus solely based on the inferences which are deduced, as stated,
from the face of the return of the sheriff. And upon the assumptions thus made it is contended that the statute as well as
the proceedings thereunder were violative of the clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
which forbids depriving any one of life, liberty or property without due process of law.
It is not seriously questioned that the Alabama statute provided that notice should be given to one proceeded against as
being of unsound mind of the contemplated trial of the question
of his or her sanity. Indeed, it would seem that it was not
urged before the Supreme Court of Alabama that the statutes
"2399 (2805, 2806). Contest of application.-If the guardian or person
at whose instance the inquisition was had and taken appear and deny the
allegations of the application, the court must appoint a day for the trial
of such contest, not more than ten days thereafter, and must cause a jury
to be summoned for the trial thereof, and the like proceedings must be
-hadas upon the original inquisition; or if there be no contest of the allegations of the application, and the court is satisfied of the truth thereof,
a decree must be entered revoking the proceedings on the inquisition and
the guardianship, and declaring that the ward must be restored to the
custody and management of his estate.
"2400 (2807). Judgment on contest; costs thereof.-If on the trial of
the contest, the jury find the facts stated in the application to be true, the
court must enter a decree revoking the proceedings on the inquisition and
the guardianship, and declaring that the ward must be restored to the
custody and management of his estate, and must adjudge the costs as is
just and equitable, but if the verdict of the jury negatives the facts stated
in the application, a judgment of dismissal at the cost of the applicant or
of the next friend must be entered.
"2401 (2803). Revocation on application of guardian.-If, at any time
after his appointment, the guardian becomes satisfied that the ward has
been restorad to sanity, and is capable of managing his estate, and the
judge of lirobate is of opinion, from the. proof and the facts stated, that
such representation is correct, he must make an order that the guardian be
discharged, and that the estate of the ward be restored to him.

SIMON v. CRAFT.
Opinion of the Court

of that State failed to provide for notice, and that court assumed
in its opinion that no question of that character was presented.
As a matter of fact, a copy of the writ which issued and which
embodied a notice of the date of the hearing of the proceedings
in lunacy is shown by the record to have been actually served
on Mrs. Simon. As early as 1870 the Supreme Court of Alabama in Fore v. Fore, 44 Alabama, 478, 483, held that the service of the writ upon a supposed lunatic was the notice required
by the statute and brought the defendant into court, and that
if he failed to avail of such matters of defence as he might bave,
he must suffer the effect of his failure to do so.
We excerpt in the margin the portion of the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Alabama which dealt with the objection
that Mrs. Simon was deprived of opportunity to be heard.1
The contention now urged is that notice imports an opportunity to defend, and that the return of the sheriff conclusively
established that Mrs. Simon was taken into custody and was
hence prevented by the sheriff from attending the inquest or
defending through counsel if she wished to do so in consequence
of the notice which she received. It seems, however, manifest
-as it is fairly to be inferred the state court interpreted the
1

"The second ground of objection is that the appellee had no opportunity
to be heard at the inquisition. This objection is based upon the character
and wording of the writ directed to the sheriff. The provision of the
statute is that the judge must ' issue a writ, directed to the sheriff, to take
the person alleged to be of unsound mind, and, if consistent -withhis health
or safety, have him present at the place of trial.' The writ that issued,
after setting out the facts averred in the petition, proceeded: I Now, there-

fore, if it be consistent with the health and safety of said Jetta Simon, you
are hereby required to take her body so that you may have her in said
court,' etc. The statute is that the sheriff be directed to take her body,
and, if consistent with health, etc. By the statute it is made the duty of
the sheriff to take the body without condition, and, if consistent with health
and safety, to have her present at the trial. The writ issued, directed to the
sheriff, ' if consistent with health and safety, to take her body,' etc. The return of the sheriff shows that the writ was executed in accordance with the
statute. It is: ' I executed the within writ of arrest by taking into my custody the within.named Jetta Simon and handing a copy of said writ, and as
it is inconsistent with the health or safety . . . to have her at the place
of trial . . . she is not brought before the court.' Technically the
writ of the judge was not accurately correct. Its meaning, however, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

statute-that the purpose in the command of the writ, "to take
the person alleged to be of unsound mind, and, if consistent with
his health or safety, have him present at the place of trial,"
was to enforce the attendance of the alleged non comnpos, rather
than to authorize a restraint upon the attendance of such person at the hearing. In other words, that the detention authorized was simply such as would be necessary to enable the sheriff to perform the absolute duty imposed upon him by law of
bringing the person before the court, if in the judgment of that
officer such person was in a fit condition to attend, and hence
it cannot be presumed, in the absence of all proof or allegation
to that effect, that the sheriff in the discharge of this duty, after
serving the writ upon the alleged lunatic, exerted his power of
detention for the purpose of preventing her attendance at the
hearing, or of restraining her from availing herself of any and
every opportunity to defend which she might desire to resort
to, or which she was capable of exerting. The essential elements of due process of law are notice and opportunity to defend. In determining whether such rights.were denied we are
governed by the substance of things and not by mere form.
Louisville & Yashville Railroad Co. v. Schmidt, 171( U. S. 230.
We cannot, then, even on the assumption that frs. Simon was
of sound mind and fit to attend the hearing, hold that she was
denied due process of law by being refused an opportunity to
defend, when, in fact, actual notice was served upon her of the
proceedings, and when, as we construe the statute, if she had
chosen to do so, she was at liberty to make such defence as she
deemed advisable. The view We take of the statute was evidently the one adopted by the judge of the probate court, where
the proceedings in lunacy were heard, since that court, upon
the return of the sheriff, and the failure of the alleged lunatic
to appear, either in person or by counsel, in order to protect
her interests, entered an order appointing a guardian ad litem,
"in the matter of the petition to inquire into her lunacy;" and
evident. The sheriff's return was complete and regular in every respect.
We do not doubt she was brought into the court in the manner prescribed
by statute, and that she was subject to its jurisdiction. The second objection cannot be sustained." 118 Alabama, 636.

SIMON v. CRAFT.
Opinion of the Court.

an answer was filed by such guardian denying all the matters
and things stated and contained in the petition, and requiring
strict proof to be made thereof according to law.
It is also urged as establishing the nullity of the appointment
of a guardian of the estate of Mrs. Simon that the proceedings
failed to constitute due process of law, because: 1, they were spe-cial and statutory, and the petition failed to state sufficient jurisdictional facts: 2, a jury was not empanelled as provided by
law: and 3, there was no finding in the verdict of the jury or
the order entered thereon ascertaining and determining all the
facts claimed to be essential to confer jurisdiction to appointa
guardian. But the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not necessitate that the proceedings in a state court
should be by a particular mode, but only that there shall be a
regular course of proceedings in which notice is given of the
claim asserted and an opportunity afforded to defend against it.
Louisville & NYashville Railroad Co. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S..230,
236, and cases cited. If the essential requisites of full notice
and an opportunity to defend were present, this court will accept the interpretation given by the state court as to the regularity under the state statute of the practice pursued in the particular case. Tested by these principles, we accept as conclusive
the ruling of the Supreme Court of Alabama that the jury which
passed on the issues in the lunacy proceeding was a lawful jury,
that the petition was in compliance with the statute, and that
the asserted omissions in the recitals in the verdict and order
thereon were at best but mere irregularities which did not ren4der void the order of the state court, appointing a guardian of
Mrs. Simon's estate.
Judgment ajfirmed.

