JACOBS v. MARKS.
Statement of the Case.

Beal, 113 U. S. 227; Bayli8 v. Taveler' In8urance Co., 113
U. S. 316."
The judgment of the Court of Azpeale of the Districtof Columbia i8 revermed, with i71tructions to that court to revere
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Districtof Columbia,
and to grant a new triaZ.

JACOBS v. MARKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 410.

Snbmitted Jianuary 7, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.

The question whether the record and judicial proceedings in the Michigan
court received full faith and credit, in the courts of Illinois is.one for this
court to consider and determine; and it holds that, upon the facts disclosed in the record, the courts of Illinois did give to the judgment and
judicial proceedings of the state court of Michigan full faith and credit,
within the meaning of the Constitution.
The judgment in question in this case did not necessarily import that the
plaintiff had received satisfaction of her claim.
The distinction between Haldermaa v. United States, 91 U. S. 584, and
United States v. Parker,120 U. S. 89, shown.
IN June, 1896, Dora Marks brought an action in the circuit
court of Cook County, Illinois, against Lewis Jacobs, for false
representations and deceit whereby the plaintiff had been induced to become a member of a corporation known "as the
Chicago Furniture and Lumber-Company of Escanaba, Michigan, composed of said Jacobs and one Nathan Neufeldt, and to
pay into such concern the sum of $5000. The plaintiff sought
to recover in this action the money so expended by her, alleging
that the shares of stock so taken by her in said company were
worthless.
The defendant filed a demurrer to the declaration, which was
overruled, and thereupon he filed a plea of not guilty; and also
several special pleas, in which he set up, in substance, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Cue.

plaintiff, on or about December 4, 1893, instituted an action in
the circuit court of Delta County, Michigan, against the Chicago
Furniture and Lumber Company, to recover the sum claimed
in the present suit; that service was duly had upon said company, which entered its appearance, and said court acquired
jurisdiction of the parties to said cause and the subject-matter
thereof; that, afterwards, the said parties came to a settlement
of said cause; that, on July 25,'1894, the said court entered the
following order: "This cause having been settled, it is hereby
discontinued by consent of both parties, without cost to either
party; " and that the said plaintiff had, therefore, received full
satisfaction of the claim upon which the present suit is based.
These special pleas were traversed, and the trial resulted in a
verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $4000. At the trial of the
present case the plaintiff put in evidence a written agreement
between the Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company and Dora
Marks, in the following terms:
"Articles of agreement made and entered into this 14th of
July, A. D. 1894, by and between the Chicago Furniture and
Lumber Company, a corporation, of the city of Escanaba, Delta
County, Michigan, parties of the first part, and Dora Marks of
Denver, Colorado, party of the second part. Party of the first
part agrees to purchase the twenty thousand dollar ($20,000)
worth of stock of the said Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company, which the party of the second part holds, for the sum of
$4000, to be paid for as follows: $1000 to Mead and Jennings,
attorneys for said party of the second part, as soon as the parties of the first -part dispose of their treasury stock to the amount
-of $1000 or interest other capital in said company to the
amount of $1000 and $3000 to said party of the second part,
on the day that the plant now occupied by the parties of the
first part in said city of Escanaba is turned over to them, and a
clear title to the property earned by' them. Parties of the first
part further agree to discontinue the damage suit now pending
against the party of the second part without cost. Said parties of the first part further agree to release said party of the
second part from all liability of said second party for the balance due on unpaid stock. Party of the second part agrees. to

JACOBS v. MARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

sell her said stock of $20,000 to the parties of the first part and
accept payment as aforesaid mentioned. Party of the second
part also agrees to discontinue the suit now pending under attachment proceedings against party of the first part, without
cost. Said stock to be transferred as paid for.
"In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set -their
hands and seals the day and year first above written."
Thereupon, over the objections of the defendant Jacobs, the
plaintiff was permitted to testify that the company never carried out the agreement under which the suit was brought, and
that she never recovered a single dollar in satisfaction of her.
claim. The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury
that the settlement of the 'Michigan case constituted a bar to
this action. These instructions were refused, and the trial resuited in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff in the
sum of $4000.
The cause was taken to the Appellate Court of Illinois, which
first reversed, and then, on rehearing, affirmed, the judgment
of the trial court; and, afterwards, to the Supreme Court of
Illinois, which, on December-, 1899, affirmed the judgment of
the Appellate Court. A writ of error was thereupon allowed
by this court.
-r.

Loui8 J

Blum and

r. -Edgar C. Blu'm for plaintiff in

error.
Mr. Joh f. .Dillo, -Yr. Andrew J. Hirscl and .r.
W. Byam for defendant in error.

/on

MR. JUSTICE SHmAs after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error alleges error in the action of the Illinois
courts in failing to give full faith and credit to the judicial
record and proceedings of the circuit court of Delta County,
Michigan.
A contention is made on behalf of the defendant in error
that the decision of the state Supreme Court did not rest on a

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Federal question, and that, hence, under the doctrine of &eberger v. _Mo CormicTe, 175 U. S. 274, and cases therein cited, we
have no jurisdiction to review it.
But the record discloses that, at the trial in the circuit court
of Cook County, the defendant, after having put in evidence
the record of proceedings in the circuit court of Delta County,
Michigan, wherein Dora Marks was plaintiff and the Chicago
Furniture and Lumber Company was defendant, asked the
court to give the following instruction:
"You are instructed that if you find from the evidence that
the plaintiff herein instituted a suit in the circuit court of Delta
County, Michigan, against the Chicago Furniture and Lumber
Company for the purpose of recovering the $4000 involved in
this suit now before you, and that she made a settlement of
this cause with the defendant therein or any one else, that the
plaintiff is barred from the further prosecution of this suit, and
the verdict of the jury must be for the defendant." And, in
support of the motion for a new trial, it appears that the defendant alleged that "the verdict and action of the court fail
to give full faith and credit to the judgment of the circuit court
of Delta County, Michigan, in the case of Dora Xfarks v. The
Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company, contrary to art. 4,
sec. 1, of the Constitution of the United States, which provides:
' Full faith and credit shall be given in every State to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every other State."'
It also appears that, in the tenth assignment of error filed in
the Appellate Court, it was alleged that the circuit court had
erred in failing to give full faith and credit to the judgment,
records and judicial proceedings of the circuit court of Delta
County, Michigan, as required-by the Constitution of the United States.
It further appears that, in the assignment of errors filed in
the Supreme Court of Illinois to the judgment and action of
the Appellate Court, it was alleged that the Appellate Court
erred in "not reversing said judgment by reason of the error
of. the circuit court in failing to give full faith and credit to
the judgment and judicial proceedings of the circuit court of
Delta County, Mich.," and also error was alleged in that "the

JACOBS c. MARKS.

587

Opinion of the Court.

Appellate Court erred, as did the circuit court, in failing to
give full faith and credit to the judgment of the circuit court
of Delta County, Michigan, rendered in the case of Dora Afarks
v. The Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company, -and introduced in evidence in this cause, which judgment is as follows:
This cause having been settled, it is hereby discontinued by
consent of both parties without cost to either party,' as required
by article four, section one, of the Constitution of the United
States."
And it is assigned for error in this court that the courts below failed to give full faith and credit to the judicial records
and proceedings of the circuit court of Delta .County, Michigan, in the case of Dora Harks v. Thze Chicago Furnitureand
Lumber Company, and thus deprived the plaintiff in error of
his rights and privileges under said article 4, section 1, of the
Constitution of the United States; and, indeed, this is the sole
error relied on here by the plaintiff in error.
We think, therefore, that the question whether the record
and judicial proceedings in the Michigan court received full
faith and credit in the courts of Illinois is one for us to consider
and determine, and we hence decline to dismiss the writ of
'reenv. 'Fan Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307, 314; Carpenterv.
error.
Strange, 141 U. S. 87, 103";. Hantington v. Attrill, 146 U. S.
657, 684.
We come, then, to the question whether, upon the facts disclosed in this record, the courts, of Illinois gave full faith and
credit, within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States, to the judgment and judicial proceedings of the state
court of Michigan.
And, first, what was the case made by the pleadings?
The declaration was in action on the case, and alleged that
the defendant induced the plaintiff, by false and fraudulent
representations, to join him and one Neufeldt in a scheme to
form a corporation for the purpose of carryingon the business
of the manufacture and sale of furniture in the town of Escanaba, in the State of Michigan, and to furnish and pay to the
defendant the sum of $5000, for which the plaintiff was to receive shares of stock in the proposed company; that, relying on

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the said false and fraudulent representations, (the nature of
which were stated in the declaration,) the plaintiff paid over
the said sum of $5000, and became a member of the corporation
known as the Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company, composed of the plaintiff, the defendant and said Neufeldt; that,
owing to the fact that the said representations as to the defendant and Neufeldt putting in large sums of money into the
enterprise proved to be false and untrue, as the defendant well
knew, the shares of stock taken by plaintiff were valueless, and
so the defendant falsely deceived and defrauded the plaintiff,
to her damage in the sum of ten thousand dollars.
To this declarAtion the defendant pleaded the general issue of
not guilty, and several special pleas, setting forth, in several
phases, that after the making of the said alleged false representations by the defendant, and after the plaintiff had parted with
her money on the strength thereof, as set out in the declaration,
the plaintiff, on or about the 4th of December, 1893, instituted
an action in the circuit court of Delta County, Michigan, against
the Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company, whereby she
sought to recover from said company the sum of four thousand
dollars, which she asserted the said company owed her as having
been fraudulently contracted and procured; that the company
was served and appeared; that afterwards the plaintiff and the
defendant company came to a settlement of the said cause of
action, and an order was duly entered on July 25, 1894, in said
circuit court of Delta County, Michigan, in the following terms:
"This cause having been settled, it is hereby discontinued by
consent of both parties without cost to either party; '5 that the
said cause of action set forth in the declaration in this cause is
brought upon the same claim upon which the said action was
brought by the said Dora Marks against the said Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company; that thus "the plaintiff has received satisfaction and payment of her said claim; and this the
defendant is ready to verify."
To these special pleas the plaintiff filed a replication, alleging
that the cause of action set forth in her said declaration was not
the same claim as that sued on-by the plaintiff against the Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company in the circuit court of

JACOBS v. MARKS.
Opinion of the Court

Delta County, Michigan, and that she, the plaintiff, did not, nor
has she at any time received satisfaction of her said claim sued
on herein, and of this put herself upon the country.
In the trial of the issues thus made up the defendant put in
evidence a certified copy of the proceedings in the Michigan
court, and the plaintiff, in connection therewith, put in evidence
an agreement between the Chicago Furniture and Lumber
Company and Dora Marks, in the following terms:
"Articles of agreement made and entered into this 14th day
of July, A. D. 1894, by and between the Chicago Furniture
and Lumber Company, a corporation, of the city of Escanaba,
Delta County, Michigan, parties of the first part, and Dora
Marks, Denver, Colorado, party of the second part. Party of
the first part agrees to purchase the twenty thousand dollars'
worth of stock of the said Chicago Furniture and Lumber Company, which the party of the second part holds, for the sum of
$4000, to be paid as follows: $1000 to Mead & Jennings,
attorneys for said party of the second part, as soon as the said
parties of the first part dispose of their treasury stock to the
amount of $1000 or interest other capital in said company to
the amount of $1000 and $3000 to said party of the. second
part, on the day that the plant now occupied by the parties of
the first part in said city of Escanaba is turned over to them
and a clear title to the property earned by them. Parties of
the first part further agree to discontinue the damage suit now
pending against the party of the second part without cost.
Said parties of the first part further agree to release said party
of the second part from all liability of said second party for the
balance due on unpaid stock. *Party of the second part agrees
to sell her said stock of $20,000 to the parties of the first part
and accept payment as aforesaid mentioned. Party of the
second part a1ho agrees to discontinue the suit now pending
under attachment proceedings against party of the first part
without cost. Said stock to be transferred as paid for."
On July 21, 1897, the jury found the defendant guilty, and
assessed the plaintiffs damages at four thousand dollars, and on
November 29, 1897, after a motion for a new trial had been
made and overruled, a final judgment was entered. according to
the verdict.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

As already stated, the judgment of the circuit court was affirmed by the- Appellate Court, whose judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
It is, of course, obvious that none of the errors assigned to
the rulings of the trial court, in the admission or rejection of
evidence, or to its instructions to the jury, nor those assigned
to the judgments of the Appellate and Supreme Courts, can be
considered by us except as they affect the question of the legal
import of the Michigan judgment, as concluding the controversy
between the parties in the Illinois- courts.
The trial court did not reject -the record of the proceedings"
in the Michigan court as evidence entitled to be considered by
the court and jury in the Illinois court; Did those proceedings
disclose that the cause of action in the Michigan court was, in
legal contemplation, the same with that asserted in the Illinois
court? Did they disclose that the plaintiff, by making the
settlement therein, had received satisfaction of her claim against
Jacobs asserted in the present action? Did they disclose that
the plaintiff,.by bringing and discontinuing an action against
the furniture company, accept the agreement of July 14, 1894,
as a satisfaction of her alleged claim, and did such conduct on
her part operate as a release of that company, and, if so, did
the release operate in favor of the defendant in the present
suit?
So far as these questions involve matters of fact they are
concluded by the verdict of the jury. That verdict imports,
under the issues formed by the pleadings, that the claim asserted
against the corporation in the Michigan court was not'the same
with that asserted against Jacobs in the circuit court of Illinois,
and that, whether or not the claims were the same, the plaintiff
never received payment or satisfaction of her claim.
The plaintiff in error; therefore, is bound to maintain. that,
as a necessary implication. of law, regardless of the verdict of
the jury, the two actions asserted the same claim, and that
the judgment and proceedings in the Michigan court precluded the plaintiff from maintaining a subsequent suit against
the defendant in the Illinois court.
It is, no doubt, true that the object of the plaintiff was the

JACOBS v. MARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

same in both suits, namely, to be indemnified for the loss incurred by putting her money into the venture, but it does not
follow that-the causes of action were the same. Apparently,
the theory of her action against the company was to treat the
money advanced as a loan made to the company and induced
by false representations. But if she found herself mistaken in
her choice of a remedy, she was not thereby deprived of a right
of redress against the person who had deceived her. - It is, however, contended that she was entitled to but one satisfaction,
and that the legal import of the judgment in the Michigan
court is that she had received a satisfaction of her claim in that
suit. But we think that the judgment in question did not
necessarily import that the plaintiff had received satisfaction of
her claim. The recital that the cause had been settled was not
an adjudication by the court. It evidently had reference to the
a&reement of July 14, 1894, which was matter dekors the
record, and with which the court had nothing to do. The entry
that the "cause is hereby discontinued by consent of both parties, without cost to either party," although entered as a judgment of the court, does not of itself import an. agreement to
terminate the controversy, nor imply an intention to merge the
cause of action in the judgment. The case of HaZderman v.
United Statmes, 91 U. S. 584, is quite in point. There a judgment
entry in the words "dismissed agreed" was pleaded, in a subsequent action, as a former recovery, but it was held by the
Circuit Court and by this court that such ah entry did not sustain the plea. It was said by Mr. Justice Davis, delivering the
opinion:
"It is a general rule that a plea of former recovery, whether
it be by confession, verdict, or demurrer, is a bar to any new
action of the same or the like nature for the same cause. This
rule conforms to the policy of the law, which requires an end to
the litigation after its merits have been determined. But there
must be at least one decision on the right between the parties
before there can be said to be a termination of the controversy,
and before a judgment can avail as a bar to a subsequent suit.
Conceding that this action is between the same parties as well
as for *thesame subject-matter as the former one, are the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

States barred from a recovery by reason of anything alleged in.
the pleas ? The first, second and fourth pleas are not essentially
different. In each the judgment relied on is' that the said suit
is not prosecuted and be dismissed.' This entry is nothing more
than the record of a nonsuit, although the customary technical
language is not used. But the plaintiffs in error deny that this
is the effect of the order, and insist that the pleas present a case
of retraxit, by which the United States forever lost their action,
because they voluntarily announced to the court that, on the
defendants paying the costs, the suit be dismissed. Such an
announcement does not imply that they had no cause of action,
or, if they had, that they intended to renounce it, or that it was
adjusted. Nonsuits are frequently taken on payment of costs
by the adverse party, in order that the controversy may be arranged out of court; but they do not preclude the institution
and maintenance of subsequent suits in case of failure to settle
the matters in dispute. . . . Whatever may be the effect
given by the courts of Kentucky to a judgment entry'dismissed
agreed,' it is manifest that the words do not of themselves import an agreement to terminate the controversy, nor imply an
intention to merge the cause of action in the judgment. Suits
are often dismissed by the parties; and a general entry is made
to that effect, without incorporating in the record, or even
placing on file, the agreement. It may settle nothing, or it
may settle the entire dispute. If the latter, there must be a
proper statement to that effect to render it available as a bar.
But the general entry of the dismissal of a suit by agreement is
evidence of ah intention, not to abandon the claim on'which it
is founded, butto preserve the right to bring a new suit thereon,
if it becomes necessary. It is a withdrawal of a suit on terms,
which may be more or less important. They may refer to costs,
or they may embrace a full settlement of the contested points;
but, if they are sufficient to bar the plaintiff, the plea must
show it."
Such views apply still more strongly in the present case, because, as we have seen, the parties in the two suits were not
the saine, and because the agTeement which led to the discontinuance of the suit in the Michigan court proved, when pro-

JACOBS v. MARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

duced at the trial of the present suit, to have been executory in
its terms, and not, in any sense, a renunciation of the plaintiff's
claim. It was also shown, to the satisfaction of the jury, that
this agreement was never fulfilled by the company, and that
the plaintiff had never received the money therein promised.
The case above cited also answers the contention of the plaintiff in error that it was not competent for the plaintiff to show
that the discontinuance of the suit in Michigan was induced
by an executory agreement on the part of the defendant
company, and that such an agreement had not been fulfilled.
If the defendant, instead of going to trial on the plaintiff's
replication that she had never satisfaction of the claim sued
on, had demurred thereto on the ground that it was not competent to contradict the legal import of the Michigan judgment
by the evidence offered, upon the principle of the case cited the
demurrer must have been overruled.
We are of opinion that the trial court did not err in permitting the plaintiff to show that the entry of discontinuance in the
Michigan case was not intended by the parties as a release and
satisfaction of the cause of action, but was the result of a
promissory agreement on the part of the defendant company
which was never complied with. Such evidence was competent
to support the plaintiff's replication to the defendant's plea in
the present suit, that the plaintiff had received full satisfaction
and payment of her said claim. In admitting such evidence
the court did not refuse to give fall faith and credit to the
Michigan judgment, but properly allowed evidence, not to contradict the necessary legal import of that judgment, but to show
the real meaning of the parties to that suit in agreeing upon its
discontinuance.
As against the case of Haldermanv. United State, the counsel for the plaintiff in error cite the subsequent case of United
States v. Parker, 120 U. S.89, 96, which they contend must be
understood as overruling the prior case. In this view of the
two cases we do not agree.
In the latter case the question arose whether a former judgment in a suit by the United States against Parker as principal
and Stuart as surety, upon an official bond, was a judgment of
VOL. qxxx 1-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

nonsuit, which would have permitted the United States to bring
another action, or whether it was equivalent to a rretraoit,by
which the United States forever lost their action, and the latter
was held.
. But-this court did not thereby disapprove of the doctrine of
the Halderman case, or depart from its reasoning, as is seen in
the fact that that case was cited, with others, as establishing
the principle that a-nonsuit is not conclusive as an estoppel, because it does not determine the right of the parties. This
court in discussing the facts of the case, (after quoting the text
of the Practice Act of Nevada, in which State the action had
been tried,) said:
"It thus appears that there are five instances in which the
dismissal of an action has the force only of a judgment of nonsuit; ' in every other case,' the statute provides, ' the judgment
shall be rendered on the merits.' If the case at bar is not included among the enumerated cases in which a dismissal is equivalent to a nonsuit, it must therefore be a judgment on the merits.
In the present case the suit was not dismissed by the plaintiff
himself before trial, nor by one party upon the written consent
of the other, nor by the court for the plaintiff's failure to appear
on the trial, nor by the court at the trial for an abandonment
by the plaintiff of his cause; neither was a dismissal-by the court
upon motion of the defendant, on the ground that the plaintiff
had failed to prove a sufficient case for the jury at the trial.
The judgment was rendered upon the evidence offered by the
defendants, which could only have been after the plaintiff had
made out aprimafaciecase. That evidence was passed upon
judicially by the court, who determined its effect to be a bar to
the cause of action. This was confirmed by the consent of the
attorney representing the United States. The judgment of dismissal was based on the ground of the finding of the court, as
matter of fact and matter of law, that the subject-matter of th6
suit had been so adjusted and settled by the parties that there
was no cause of action ,then existing. This was an ascertainment judicially that the defence relied on was valid and sufficient, and consequently was a judgment upon the merits, finding
the issue for the defendants. Being; as already found, for the

GLA VEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement'of the Case.

same cause of action as now sued upon, it operates as a bar to
the present suit by way of estoppel."
This statement of the facts and law in that case clearly shows
that the decision is not inconsistent with that announced in the
case of Ealderman v. United Statem, and also that; it is not applicable to the case in hand.
These views dispose of the only question which our jurisdiction enables us to review.
Finding, as we do, that the courts of Illinois gave all that
faith and credit to the judgment and judicial proceedings in the
Michigan court to which they were entitled under the Constitution of the United States, the other errors assigned we cannot
consider, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
.fi~rmed.

GLAVEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 2M5.Argued April 11, 12, 1901.-Decided May 27,1901.
When an office with a fixed salary has been created by statute, and a person duly appointed to it has qualified and entered upon the discharge of
his duties, he is entitled, during his incumbency, to be paid the salary
prescribed by statute.
Such an appointment is complete when duly made by the President and
confirmed by the Senate, and the giving of a bond required by law is a
mere ministerial act for the security of the Government, and not a condition precedent to his authority to act in performance of the duties of the
office.
As the act of 1882 created a distinct, separate office, with a fixed annual
salary for the incumbent, to be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury;
as the plaintiff was legally appointed thereto, by the Secretary under and
by virtue alone of that act; and as he entered upon the discharge of the
duties appertaining to that position, he was entitled to demand the salary
attached by Congress to the office.

THE case is'stated iii the opinion of the court.

