222

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

for the reasons stated in De Lima v, Bidwell, just decided, that
the board of general appraisers had no.jurisdiction of the cases.
The judgments of the Circuit Court are therefore reversed,
and the case8 remanded to that .court with inastruction8to revers8e the actiom of the board of general affprai8er8.

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 501. ArguedJanuary 8,9,10,11,1901.-DecidedMay 27,1901.

The Court of Claims, and the Circuit Courts, acting as such, have jurisdiction of actions for the recovery of duties illegally exacted upon merchandise, alleged not to have been imported from a foreign country.
Duties upon imports from the United States to Porto Rico, collected by
the military commander and by the President as Commander-in-Chief,
from the time possession was taken of the island until the ratification of
the treaty of peace, were legally exacted under the war power.
As the right to exact duties upon-importations from Porto Rico to New
York ceased with the ratification of the treaty of peace, the correlitive
right to exact duties upon imports from New York to Porto Rico also
ceased at the same time.

THIs was an action begun in the Circuit Court, a§ a Court of
"Claims, by the firm of Dooley, Smith & Co., engaged in trade
and commerce between Porto Rico and New York, to recover
back certain duties to the amount of $5314.68, exacted and
paid under protest at theport of San Juan, Porto Rico, upon
several consignments of merchandise imported into Porto Rico
from New York between July 26, 1898, and May 1, 1900, viz.:
1. From July 26, 1898, until August 19,1898, under the terms
of the proclamation of General Miles, directing the exaction of
the former Spanish and Porto Rican duties.
2. From August 19, 1898, until February 1, 1899, under the
customs tariff for Porto Rico, proclaimed by order of the
President.

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

3. From February 1,1899, to May 1,1900, under the amended
tariff customs promulgated January 20, 1899, by order of the
President.
It thus appears that the duties were collected partly before
and partly after the ratification of the treaty, but in every instance prior to the taking effect of 'the Foraker act. The
revenues thus collected were used by the military authorities
for the benefit of the provisional government.
A demurrer was interposed upon the ground of the want of
jurisdiction, and the insufficiency of the complaint. The Circuit
Court sustained the demurrer upon the second ground, and dismissed the petition. Hence this writ of error.
Mri.. HNenry M Ward and M~r. John G. Carlislefor plaintiffs
in error.
.r. William Edmond Curtis was on XrM. Ward'8
brief. 21. William G. Choateand Mr. Joseph Zarocquefiled a
separate brief for plaintiffs in error.
r.,. SoZlicitm General and
ants in error.
MR. Jus'Tic

i.'. Attorn.y General for defend-

BRowN, after making the above statement,de-

livered the opinion of the court.
1. The jurisdiction of the court in this case is attacked by the
government upon the ground that the Circuit Court, as a Court
of Claims, cannot take cognizance of actions for the recovery
of duties illegally exacted..
By an act passed March 3, 1887, to provide for the bringing
of suits against the -government, known as the Tucker act, 24
Stat. 505, c. 359, the Court of Claims was vested with jurisdiction
bver "first, all claims founded upon the Constitution of the United.
States or, any law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any
regulation of an Executive Department, or upon any contract,
express or implied, with the government of the United States,
or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party would be entitled to redress against the United States either in a court of
law, equity, or admiralty, if the United States were suable;"

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and by section 2 the District and Circuit Courts were given concurrent jurisdiction to a certain amount.
The first section evidently contemplates four distinct classes
of cases: (1) those fonded upon the Constitution or any law
of Congress, with. an exception of pension cases; (2) cases
founded upon a regulation of an Executive Department;
(3) cases of contract, express or implied, with the government; (4) actions for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in
cases not 8ounding in tort. The words "not sounding in tort"

are in terms referable only to the fourth class of cases.
The exception to the jurisdiction is based upon two grounds:
First, that the court has no jurisdiction of cases arising under
the revenue laws; and, second, that it has no jurisdiction in
actions for tort.
In support of the first proposition we'are cited to the case of
_Nchok v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, in which it was broadly
stated that "cases arising under the revenue laws are not
within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims." The action
in that case was brought to recover an excess of duties paid
upon certain liquors which had leaked out during the voyage,
and, being thus lost, were never imported in fact into the United States. Plaintiffs paid the duties, as exacted, but made no
protest, and subsequently brought suit in the Court of Claims
for the overpayment. The act in force at that time gave the
Court of' Claims power to hear and determine "all claims
founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of
an Executive Department, or upon any contract, express or
implied, with the government of the United States." The
court held, first, that the duties could not be recovered because they were not paid under protest, and, second, that
Congress did not intend to confer upon the Court of Claims
jurisdiction of cases arising under the revenue laws, inasmuch
as, by the act of February 26, 1845, 5 Stat. '727, c. 22, Congress
had given a right of action against the collector in favor of persons "who have paid, or shall hereafter pay, money, as and for
duties, under protest

.

.

in order to obtain goods, wares,

or merchandise imported by him or them, or on his or their account, which duties are not authorized or payable in part or in

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

whole by law," provided that protests were duly made in writing. It was held that this remedy was exclusive, and that Congress, after having carefully constructed a revenue system, with
ample provisions to redress wrong, did not intend to give to the
taxpayer and importer a different and further remedy.
Subsequent statutes, however, have so far modified that
special remedy that it can no longer be made available, and
the broad statement in the ffichols case, that revenue cases are
not within the cognizance of the Court of Claims, if still true,
must be accepted with material qualifications. By the Customs
Administrative act of 1890, as we have just held in De Lima
v. Bidwell, an appeal is given from the decision of the collector
"as to the rate and amount of the duties chargeable upon imported merchandise," to a board of general appraisers, whose
decision shall be final and conclusive "as to the construction of
the law and the facts respecting the classification of such merchandise and the rate of duties imposed thereon under such
classification," unless application be made for a review to the
Circuit Court of the United States. This remedy is doubtless
exclusive as applied to customs cases; but, as we then held, it
has no application to actions against the collector for duties
exacted upon goods which were not imported at all. Such
cases, although arising under the revenue laws, are not within
the purview of the Customs Administrative act; as- for such
cases there is still a common-law right of action against the
collector, and we think also by application to the Court of
Claims. There would seem to be no doubt about plaintiffs'
remedy against the collector at San Juan.
In the iVichoZ8 case, it was held that, as there was a remedy
by action against the collector, expressly provided by statute,
that remedy was exclusive. In De Zima v. Bidwell we held
that although no other remedy was given expressly by statute
than that provided by the Customs Administrative act, there
was still a common law remedy against the collector for duties
exacted upon goods not imported at all; but it does not therefore follow that this remedy is exclusive, and that the importer
may not avail himself of his right of a~tion in the Court of
Claims.
VOL. OLxxxn-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

But conceding that the _Nickol, case does not stand in the way
of a suit in the Court of Claims, the government takes the position.that a suit in the United States to recover back duties illegally exacted by a collector of customs is reilly an action
"sounding in tort," though not an action "for damages, liquidated or unliquidated," within the fourth class of cases enumerated in the Tucker act.
There are a number of authorities in this court upon that subject which require examination. The question is, whether any
claim sounding in tort can be prosecuted in the Court of Claims,
notwithstanding the words "not sounding in tort," in the
Tucker act, are apparently limited to claims for damages, liquidated or unliquidated. The question was first considered in
Langfordv. United States, 101 U. S. 341, under the statute above
cited, giving the Court of Claims power to hear and determine
"all claimg found upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an Executive Department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with the government of the United States."
The suit was brought to recover for the use and occupation of
certain lands and buildings of which possession had been forcibly taken by agents of the government, against the will of
Langford,. who claimed title to the lands. It was held that the
act of the United States in taking and holding possession was
an unequivocal tort, and a distinction was drawn between such
a case and one where the government takes for public use lands
to which it asserts no claim of title, but admits the ownership
to be private or individual, in which class there arises an implied
obligation to pay the owner its just value. "It is a very different matter where the government claims it is dealing with its
own, and recognizes no title superior to its own. In such case
the government,?r'the officers who seize such property, are guilty
of a tort, if it be-'in fact private property." It was held that
the limitation of the act to cases of contract, express or implied, "was established in reference to the distinction between
actions arising out of contracts, as distinguished between those
founded on torts, which is inherent in the essential nature of
judicial remedies under all systems, and especially under the
system of the common law."

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The case was rested largely upon that of Gibbon8 v. United
States, 8 Wall. 269, in which an army contractor who had
agreed to furnish certain oats at a fixed price had, after the
delivery of part of the amount, been released from the obligation to deliver the balance. He was, however, carried before
the military authority, and, influenced by threats, agreed to
deliver, and did deliver, the full quantity of oats specified in
the contract. He brought suit for the difference between the
contract price and the market price of the oats at the time of
delivery. It was said that "if such pressure was brought to
bear upon him as would make the renewal of the contract void,
as being obtained by duress, then there was no contract, and
the proceeding was a tort for which the officer may have been
personally liable," but that it was not within the Court of
Claims act.
The act of March 3, 1887, the Tucker act, was first considered by this, court in United State8 v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1, in which
it was held not to confer upon the Court of Claims jurisdiction
in equity to compel the issue and entry of a patent for public
land, following United States v. Alire, 6 Wall. 573, and Bonner v. United Stateq, 9 -Wall. 156. In delivering the opinion,
Mr. Justice Bradley compared the original act with the Tucker
act, and held that there was no such difference in language as
to justify an equitable jurisdiction to compel the issue of a
patent.
In Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593, it was held that a
claim for damages for the use and occupation of land under
tidewater, for the erection and maintenance of a lighthouse,
without the consent of the owner, but not showing that the
United States had acknowledged any right of property in him
as against them, was a case sounding in tort, of which the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction under the Tucker act. It was
said that "the United States cannot be sued in their own courts
without their consent, and have never permitted themselves to
be sued in any court for torts committed in their name by their
officers. Nor can the settled distinction, in this respect, between
contract and tort be evaded by framing the claim as upon an
implied contract." "An action in the nature of assumpsit for

OCTOBER TERM[, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the use and occupation of real estate will never lie where there
has been no relation of contract between the.parties, and where
the possession has been acquired and maintained under a different or adverse title, or where it is tortious and makes the defendant a trespasser." No distinction was noticed between the
phraseology of the original act and the Tucker act, though it
seems to have been assumed that the case was one for the
recovery of "damages" sounding in tort.
In Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163, it was held that
the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction of an action upon a
claim against the government for the wrongful appropriation
of a patent by the United States, against the protest of the
patentee. It was said to be an action for damages sounding in
tort, and therefore not maintainable. 11Not only does the petition count upon a tort, but also the findings show a tort. That
is the essential fact underlying the transaction and upon which
rests every pretense of a right to recover. There was no suggestion of a waiver of the tort or a pretense of any implied contract until after the decision of the Court of Claims that it had
no jurisdiction over an action to recover for the tort."
In the cases under consideration the argument is made that
the money was tortiously exacted; that the alternative of payment to the collector was a seizure and sale of the merchandise
for the non-payment of duties; and that it mattered not that
at common law an action for money had and received would
have lain against the collector to recover them back. But
whether the exactions of these duties were tortious or not;
whether it was within the power of the importer to waive the
tort and bring suit in the Court of Claims for money had and
received, as upon an implied contract of the United States to
refund the money in case it was illegally exacted, we think the
case is one within the first class of cases specified in the Tucker
-act of claims founded upon a law of Congress, namely, a revenue law, in respect to which class of cases the jurisdiction of
the Court of Claims, under the Tucker act, has been repeatedly
sustained.
Thus, in United States v. -aufman, 96 U. S. 561, a brewer
who had been illegally assessed for a special tax upon his busi-

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ness, was held entitled to bring suit in the Court of Claims to
recover back the amount, upon the ground that no special
remedy had. been provided for the enforcement of the payment,
and consequently the general laws which govern the Court of
Claims may be resorted to for relief, if any can be found applicable to such a case. This is upon the principle that a liability
created by statute without a remedy may be enforced by a
common-law action. The Nichols case.Nwas distinguished upon
the ground that the statute there had provided a special remedy.
So, too, in United States v. Savings Bank, 104 U. S. 728, the

Court of Claims was held to have jurisdiction of a suit to recover back certain taxes and penalties assessed upon a savings
bank.
In Campbell v. United States, 107 U. S. 407, it was held that
a party claiming to be entitled to a drawback of duties upon
manufactured articles exported might, when payment thereof
has been refused, maintain a suit in the Court of Claims, because
the facts found raised an implied contract that the United States
would refund to the importer the amount he. had paid to the
government. There was here no question of tort.
In United States v. G-reat -Falls-ManufacturingCo., 112 U. S.
645, it was held, following the observation of Mr. Justice Miller
in _angford v. United States, that where property to which the
United States asserts no title is taken by their officers or agents,
pursuant to an act of Congress, as private property for public
use, there was an implied obligation to compensate the owner,
which might be enforced by suit in the Court of Claims.
So, too, in H7ollister v. Benedict & Burnham ffg. Co., 113
U. S. 59, it was held that a suit might be maintained in the
Court of Claims to recover for the use of a patented invention,
if the right of the patentee were acknowledged. To the same
effect are United States v. Palme-r, 128 U. S. 262, and United
States v. Berdan Fire-Arms Co., 156 U. S. 552.
In -fedbury v. United States, 173 U. S. 492, it was held the
Court of Claims had jurisdiction of an action to recover an excess of payment for lands within the limits of a railroad grant,
which grant was, subsequent to the payment, forfeited by act
of Congress for non-construction of the road.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

In Swift v. United States, 111 U. S. 22, the same right was
treated as existing in favor of a party who sued for a commission upon the amount of certain adhesive stamps, which he had
at me time purchased for his own use from the Bureau of Internal Revenue. See also United State8.v. Law8on, 101 U. S.
164; .osby v. United Stat8, 133 U. S. 273.
2. In their legal aspect, the duties exacted in this case were
of three classes: (1) the duties prescribed by General Miles under
order of July 26, 1898, which merely extended the existing
regulations; (2) the tariffs of August 19, 1898, and February 1,
1899, prescribed by the President as Commander-in-Chief, which
continued in effect until April 11, 1899, the date ot the ratification of the treaty and the cession of the island to the United
States; (3) from the ratification of the treaty to May 1, 1900,
when the Foraker act took effect.
There can be no doubt with respect to the first two of these
classes, namely, the exaction of duties under the war power,
prior to the ratification of the treaty of peace. While it is true
the treaty of peace was signed December 10, 1898, it did not
take effect upon individual rights, until there was an exchange
of ratifications. Haver v. Faker,9 Wall. 32. Upon the occupation of the country by the military forces of the United States,
the authority of the Spanish Government was superseded, but
the necessity for a revenue did not cease. The government
must be carried on, and there was no one left to administer its
functions but the military forces of the United States. Money
is requisite for that purpose, and money could only be raised by
order of the military commander. The most natural method
was by the continuation of existing duties. In adopting this
method, General Miles was fully justified by the laws of war.
The doctrine upon this subject is thus summed up by Halleck
in his work on International Law, (vol. 2, page 444): "The
right of one belligerent to occupy and govern the territory of
the enemy while in its military possession, is one of the incidents of war, and flows directly from the right to conquer.
We, therefore, do not look to the Constitution or political institutions of the conquerer, for authority to establish a government for the territory of the enemy in his possession, during its

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.

231

Opinion of the Court.

military occupation, nor for the rules by which the powers of
such government are regulated and limited. Such authority
and such rules are derived directly from the laws of war, as
established by the usage of the world, and confirmed by the
writings of publicists and decisions of courts-in fine, from the
law of the nations. . . . The municipal laws of a conquered
territory, or the laws which regulate private rights, continue in
force during military occupation, except so far as they are- suspended or changed by the acts of the conqueror. . . . He,
nevertheless, has all the powers of a de facto government, and
can at his pleasure either change the existing laws or make new
-ones."1
In New Orleans v. &leamshii Co., 20 Wall. 387, 393, it was
said, with respect to the powers of the military government
over the city of New Orleans after its conquest, that it had
"the same power and rights in territory held by conquest as if
the territory had belonged to a foreign country and had been
subjugated in a foreign war. In such cases the conquering
power has the right to displace the preexisting authority, and
to assume to such extent as it may deem proper the exercise by
itself of all the powers and functions of government. It may
appoint all the necessary officers and clothe them with designated powers, larger or smalleir, according to its pleasure. It
may prescribe the revenues to be paid, and apply them to its
own use or otherwise. It may do anything necessary to
strengthen itself and .weaken the enemy. There is no limit to
the powers that may be exerted in such cases, save those which
,are found in the laws and usages of war. These principles have
the sanction of all publicists who have considered the subject."
See also Thirty Hogsheads of Sugar'v. Boye, 9 Cr. 191 ; Fleming v. Page,9 How. 603; American fn. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet.
511.
But it is useless to multiply citations upon this point, since
the authority to exact similar duties was fully considered and
affirmed by this court in Cross v. HMarrison,16 Hovi. 164. This
case involved the validity of duties exacted by the military
commander of California upon -imports from foreign countries,
from the date of the treaty of peace, February 3, 1848, to No-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

vember 13,1849, when the collector of customs appointed by the
President entered upon the duties of his office. Prior to the
treaty of peace, and from August, 1847, duties had been exacted
by the military authorities, the validity of which does not seem
to have been questioned. Page 189: "That war tariff, however, was abandoned as soon as the military governor had received from Washington information of the exchange and ratification of the treaty with Mexico, and duties were afterwards
levied in conformity with such as Congress had imposed upon
foreign merchandise imported into other ports of the United
States, Upper California having been ceded by the treaty to the
United States." The duties were held to have been legally exacted. Speaking of the duties exacted before the treaty of
peace, Mr. Justice Wayne observed (p. 190): "1No one can
doubt that these orders of the President, and the action of our
Army and Navy commanders in California, in conformity with
them, was according to the law of arms and the right of conquest, or that theywere operative until the ratification and exchange of a treaty of peace. Such would be the case upon general principles in respect to war and peace between nations."
It was further held that the right to collect these duties continued from 'the date of the treaty up to the time when official
notice of its ratification and exchange were received in California. Owing to the fact that no telegraphic communication
existed at that time, the news of the ratification of this treaty
did not reach California until August. , 1848, during which
time the war tariff was continued. The question does not arise
in this case, as the ratifications of the treaty appear to have
been known as soon as they were exchanged.
The court further held in Cross v. Harrison that the right
of the military commander to exact the duties prescribed by
the tariff laws of the United States continued until a collector
of customs had been appointed. Said the court: "The government, of which Colonel Mason was the executive, had its origin
in the lawful exercise of a belligerent right over a conquered
territory. It had been instituted during the war by the command of the President of the United States. It was the government when the territory was ceded as a conquest, and it did

DOOLEY v.. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

not cease, as a matter of course, or as a necessary consequence,
of the restoration of peace. The President might have dissolved
it by withdrawing the army and navy officers who administered
it, but he did not do so. Congress could have put an end to it,
but that was not done. The right inference from the inaction
of both is, that it was meant to be continued until it had been
legislatively changed. . . . We think it was continued over
a ceded conquest, without any violation of the Constitution or
laws of the United States, and that, until Congress legislated
for it, the duties upon foreign goods, imported into San Francisco, were legally demanded and lawfully received by Mr. Harrison, the collector of the port, who received his appointment,
according to instructions from Washington, from Governor
Mason."
Upon this point that case differs from the one under consideration only in the particular that the duties weke levied in
Cro8 v. Harrisonupon goods imported from foreign countries
into California, while in the present case they were imported
from New York, a port of the conquering country. This, however, is quite immaterial. The United States and Porto Rico
were still. foreign countries with respect to each other, and the
same right which authorized us to exact duties upon merchandise imported from Porto Rico to the United States authorized
the military commander in Porto Rico to exact duties upon,
goods imported into that island from the United States. The
fact that, notwithstanding the military occupation of the United States, PQrto Rico remained a -foreign country within the
revenue laws is established by the case of Flming v. Page, 9
How. 603, in which we held that the capture and occupation
of a Mexican port during our war with that country did not
make it a part of the United States, and that it still remained
a foreign country .ywithin the meaning of the revenue laws.
The right to exact duties upon goods imported into Porto Rico
.from New York arises from the fact that N~ew York was still
a foreign country with respect to Porto Rico, and from the
correlative right to exact at New York duties upon merchandise imported from that island.
3. Different considerations apply with respect to duties levied

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

after the ratification of the treaty and the cession of the island
to the United States. Porto Rico then ceased to be a foreign
country, and, as we have just held in De Lima v. Bidwell, the
right of the collector of New'York to exact duties upon imports
from that island ceased with the exchange of ratifications.
We have no doubt, however, that, from the necessities of the
case, the right to administer the government of Porto Rico
continued in the military commander after the ratification of
the treaty, and until further action by Congress. Cross v.
Ham48on, above cited. At the same time, while the right to
administer the government continued, the Qonclusion of the
treaty of peace and the cession of the island to the United
States were not without their significance. By that act Porto
Rico ceased to be a foreign country, and the right to collect
duties upon imports from that island. ceased. We think the
correlative right to exact duties upon importations from New
York to Porto Rico also ceased. The spirit as well as the letter of the tariff laws admit of duties being levied by a military
commander only upon importations from foreign countries;
and while his power is necessarily despotic, this must be understood rather in an administrative than in a legislative sense.
While in legislating for a conquered country he may disregard
the laws of that country, he is not wholly above the laws of
his own. For instance, it is clear that while a military commander during the civil war was in the occupation of a Southern port, he could impose duties upon merchandise arriving
from abroad, it would hardly be contended that he could also
impose duties upon merchandise arriving from ports of his own
country. His power to administer would be absolute, but his
power to legislate would not be without certain restrictionsin other words, they would not extend beyond the necessities
of the case. Thus in the case of Die Admittance; Jeceer v.
XMntgomery, 13 How. 498, it was held that neither the President, nor the military commander, could establish a court of
prize; competent to take jurisdiction of a case of capture, whose
judgments would be conclusive in other admiralty courts. It
was said that the courts established in Mexico during the war
" were nothing more than agents of the military power, to as-

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sist it in preserving order in the conquered territory, and'to
protect the inhabitants in their persons and property, while it
was occupied by the American arms. They were subject to
the military power, and their decisions under its control, whenever the commanding officer thought proper to iinterfere. They
were not courts of the United States, and had no right to adjudicate upon a question of prize or no prize," although Congress, in the exercise of its general authority in relation to the
national courts, would have power to validate their action.
The Grape87ot, 9 Wall. 129, 133.
So, too, in .fitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115, it was held
that, where the plaintiff entered Mexico during the war with
that country, under a permission of the commander to trade
with the enemy and under the sanction of the executive power
of the United States, his property was not liable to seizure by
law for such trading, and that the officer directing the seizure
was liable to an action for the value of the property taken.
To the same effect is .Xostyn v. _Fabrigas,1 Cowp. 161.
In Raymond v. Thomas, 91'U. S.712, a special order, by the
officer in command of the forces in the State of South Carolina,
annulling a decree rendered by a court of chancery in that State,
was held to be void. In delivering the opinion, Mr. Justice
Swayne observed: "Whether Congress could have conferred
the power to do such an acA is not the question we are called
upon to consider. It is an unbending rule of law, that the exercise of military power, where the rights of -the citizens are concerned, shall never be pushed beyond what the exigency re
qUires."
Without questioning at all the original validity of the order
imposing duties upon goods imported into Porto Rico from
foreign countries, we think the proper construction of that order is, that it ceased to apply to goods imported from the United
States from the moment the United States ceased to be a foreign
country with respect to Porto Rico, and -that until Congress
otherwise constitutionally directed, such merchandise was entitled to free entry.
An unlimited power on the part of the Commander-in-Chief
to exact duties upon imports from the States might have placed

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, GRAY, SHIRAS and McKE.NA, dissenting.

Porto Rico in a most embarrassing situation.

The ratification

of the treaty and the cession of the island to us severed her,
connection with Spain, of which the island was no longer a
colony, and with respect to which she had become a foreign
country. The wall of the Spanish tariff was raised against her
exports, the wall of the military tariff against her imports, from
the mother country. She received no compensation from her
new -relations with the United States. If her exports, upon
arriving there, were still subject to the same duties as merchandise arriving from other foreign countries, while her imports
from the United States were subjected to duties prescribed by
the Commander-in-Chief, she would be placed in a position of
practical isolation, which could not fail to be disastrous to the
business and finances of an island. It had no manufactures
or markets of its own, and was dependent upon the markets
of other countries for the sale of her productions of coffee, sugar
and tobacco. - In our opinion the authority of the President as
Commander-in-Chief to exact duties upon imports from the
United States ceased with the ratification of the treaty of peace,
and her right to the free entry of goods from the ports of the
United States continued until Congress should constitutionally
legislate upon the subject.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed and
the case remanded to that court for further proceedings in
consonance with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE WmrE, (with whom concurred MR. JTusTi(Y
GR&Y,MR.JusTion SIRAs and MR. JUsTICE M{oKE1A,) dissenting.
The question involved in this case is the validity of -certain
impost duties laid on goods coming from the United States into
Porto Rico under the tariff imposed by the military commander
and under tariffs proclaimed by the President as Commanderin-Chief. The duties collected prior to the ratification of the
treaty of peace are now decided to have been valid; those collected after the ratification of the treaty are decided to have
been unlawfully imposed, upon the doctrine announced in the

- DOOLEY v. UNIrED STATES.

237

JUSTICES WHITE, GRAY, SHIBAS and McKzxA, dissenting.

case of De Lime v. Bidwell, just previously decided. I concur
in so far as it is held that the duties collected prior to the ratification were validly collected, but dissent in so far as it is decided that the duties collected after the ratification were illegal.
I might content myself with referring to the dissent in the De
Lima case as expressing the grounds which prevent me from
concurring in this case; but the importance of the subject and
the grave consequences which I think are to be entailed by the
decision now announced leads me to refer to some additional
considerations.
As a prelude to doing so, however, let me briefly resume the
propositions which seem to me to have been hitherto established.
1. There is a nwn 8equitur involved in stating that the question is whether Porto Rico was a foreign country within the
meaning of the tariff laws, and then discussing, not the question
thus stated, but a different subject, that is, whether the territory
ceded by the treaty with Spain came under the sovereignty of
the United States by the effect of the cession.
2. And the confusion which arises from stating one question
and then analyzing and expressing opinions on another and different one, is additionally demonstrated when it is considered
that most of the authorities now relied upon in relation to the
extension of the sovereignty of the United States over territory
were cited to the court in Fleming v. Page, to establish that
the dominancy of the sovereignty of the United States over a
territory was the proper test by which to determine whether,
under all circimstances the revenue .laws of the United States
were applicable, and the court decided adversely to such contention. ffleming v. Page, 9 How.603.
3. As the treaty with Spain provided "that the civil rights
and political 8tats of the native inhabitants should be determined by Congress," in reason this provision should not be controlled by conclusions deduced from treaties made by the United
States in the past with other countries which did not contain
such a provision, but expressly stipulated to the contrary.
4. In view of the terms of the treaty with Spain, to hold that
the status of the ceded territory as previously existing was ipso
.facto changed, within the meaning of the tariff laws of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, GRAY, SHIBAS and McKENNA, dissenting.

United States, without action by Congress, is to deprive that
body of the rights which the stipulations of the .treaty sedulously sought to preserve.
5. Even ignoring the terms of the treaty, the conclusion that
the status of the ceded torritory, within the meaning of the
tariff laws, was changed by the treaty before Congress could
act on the subject, can only be upheld by disregarding the opinion of the court expressed by Mr. Chief Justice Taney in RF'eming v. Page, and treating the important declarations -on this
subject by him in that case as mere dicta.
6. The result also cannot be supported without a misconception of the case of Cross v. Harrisou,since that decision enforced the payment of a tariff duty levied after the ratification
of the treaty with Mexico at a different rate from that imposed
by the existing tariff laws of the United States, and since, moreover, that case can only be harmoniously interpreted by recalling the fact that several months after the notification of the
ratification of the treaty with Mexico was received in California
the President ordered the tariff laws of the United States to be
enforced in California, and this authority may well have been
treated as not only a direction for the future, but as a ratification of the act of the military officials in enforcing the tariff
laws of the United States after they had learned of the ratification of the treaty.
7. In no single case from the foundation of the government
except, if it can be called an exception, in the brief period prior
to the President's order enforcing the tariff laws in California,
as above stated, have the revenue laws of the United States
been enforced in acquired territory without the action of the
President or the consent of Congress, express or implied.
8. The rule of the immediate bringing, by the self-operating
force of a treaty, ceded territory inside of the line of the tariff
laws of the United States denies the existence of powers which
the Constitution expressly bestows, overthrows the authority
conferred on Congress by the Constitution, and is impossible of
execution.
Having thus imperfectly summarized the propositions which
are more lucidly stated in the dissent in the.De Lima case, I

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTIcES WHrrE, GBAY, SmnAs and MCKEN A, dissenting.

come to express the additional thoughts which have been previously adverted to.
Before the outbreak of the war with Spain it cannot be disputed that Porto Rico was embraced within the words "foreign country," as used in the tariff laws. Why was that island
so embraced without specific reference to it in such laws? is
the question which naturally arises. To answer this question
it is essential to determine what is the import of the words
"foreign country," not internationally, but within the meaning
of the tariff laws. It is settled that the power of Congress to
lay an impost duty does not give the right to levy such a duty
on merchandise coming from one part of the United States to
the other. Woodruf v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123. It follows,
therefore, that when, in the exercise of its power to lay impost
duties, Congress specifies such duties are to be collected on
merchandise from foreign countries, those words but generically embody the declaration of Congress that it is exerting
its taxing power conformably to the Constitution; that is,
it is causing the taxes which are levied to be applicable to the
entire area to which they may be extended under the Constitution. The command, then, in tariff laws, that impost duties
when laid shall be collected on all merchandise coming from
"foreign countries," is but a provision that they are to be levied
on merchandise arriving from countries which are not a part
of the United States, within the -neaning of the tariff aws,
and which are hence subject to such duties. It must follow
that, as long as a locality is. in a position where it is subject to
the power of Congress to levy an impost tariff duty on merchandise' coming from that 6ountry into the United States,
such country must be a foreign country within the meaning of
the tariflaw&
1aw8.
Now, this court has just decided in -Downe8 v.
Bidwell that, despite the treaty of cession, Porto Rico remained
in a position where Congress could impose a tariff duty on
goods coming from that island into the United States. If,
however, it remained in that position, how then can it be now
declared that it ceased to be in that relation because it was no
longer foreign country within the meaning of the tariff laws?
But, it is said, although when the treaty was ratified, the coun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTICES WHITE, GRAY, SmRAs and MCKENNA, dissenting.

try at once ceased to be foreign within the meaning of the tariff
laws it yet subsequently became foreign for the purpose of the
tariff laws when the act of Congress imposing a duty on goods
from Porto Rico took effect. To what, in. reason, does this
proposition come? In my opinion only to this: Congress, under the Constitution, may not impose a tariff duty on goods
brought from a country which has ceased to be foreign, but,
although a country has so ceased to be foreign within the meaning of the tariff laws, nevertheless Congress may thereafter
cause it to become foreign within such intendment by levying
an impost upon its products coming into the United States.
This is but to say an act of Congress can have the effect of
changing the status of a territory from not foreign within the
meaning of the tariff laws to foreign within such meaning,
although a law attempting to so do would be plainly in violation of the Constitution, if the principle announced in this case
be true, that the treaty from the moment of its ratification by
its own force caused the ceded territory to be no longer foreign
within the meaning of the tariff laws.
The only escape my mind can point out from this deduction
is to say that territory which has become domestic, and therefore ceases to be foreign within the meaning of the tariff law,
can yet be constitutionally treated by Congress as if it had not
ceased to be foreign and had not become domestic. But this
would expressly overrule TFoodruf v. Pat-am, 8 Wall. 123,
and cannot therefore be the rule of decision now announced,
since that case is referred to and cited approvingly in the opinion of my brethren who dissent in the -Downes case, and who do
not dissent from the opinion of the court now announced.
Passing these considerations, it is impossible for me to conceive that Porto Rico ceased to be subject to the tariff laws,
for the reasons fully stated by me in my concurring opinion in
Downes v. Bidwell, which need not be reiterated. But, for the
purposes of this case and arguendoonly, let me now admit that
the treaty incorporated Porto Rico into the United States despite
the provisions which were contained in that instrument. Does
it follow that such territory at-once ceased to be subject to the

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
JusTicEs WmTE, GnAY, SEIAs and WcKExwA, disserting.

tariff laws before Congress had the time to act? I am constrained to think not.
The power to originate revenue laws is lodged by the Constitution in the House of Representatives. When a tariff bill is
drawn the revenue to arise from it must depend upon the sum
of the articles which are to be imported and which are to pay
the duty provided in the law. Let me illustrate it: Suppose a
tariff law is so adjusted that the greater portion of the revenue
which it seeks to provide is drawn from a few articles of general consumption.' The duties to be paid on these articles, when
imported, will, therefore, largely furnish the revenues essential
to carry on the government. Suppose a treaty of cession which
embraces territory producing in large quantities the articles
upon which the existing tariff laws mainly rely for revenue to
sustain the government. If, instantly, on the ratification of the
treaty, before Congress can remodel or change the laws so as to
provide for the support of the government, the articles stated
coming into the United. States from the country in question
would be within the tariff line, and thereby entitled to free
entry into the United States, what would become of the power
of the House of Representatives and of the Congress on the
subject of revenue as provided in the Constitution? It may be
said in answer to this guggestion that Congress could-make the
change, and whilst of course a brief interval of disaster would
ensue, during which there would be no revenue, the country
must suffer the consequences during such interval. But does
this follow? Suppose the political state of the country should
be such that there was a difference of opinion as to the policy
to be embodied in a tariff law, analogous to that which existed
when California was acquired from Mexico, where, in consequence of division on the subject of the slavery question between the different branches of Congress, it was impossible to
enact lbgislation conferring a territorial government upon California, what would be the situation then? Look at it practically
from another point of view. Certainly before revenue laws can
be made operative in a district or country it is essential that
the situation be taken' into account, for the purpose of establishing ports of entry, collection districts and the necessary
vOL. OLXXXII-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
JUSTIcES WmTE,

GRAY, SHmRAs and XCEENNA, dissenting.

machinery to enforce them. Of course, it is patent that such
investigations cannot be made prior to acquisition. But, as the
laws immediately extend, without action of Congress, as the
result of acquisition, it must follow that they extend, although
none of the means and instrumentalities for their successful
enforcement can possibly be devised until the acquisition is
completed. This must be, unless it be held that there is power
in the government of the United States to enter a foreign
country, examine its situation and enact legislation for it before
it has passed under the sovereignty of the United States. From
the point of view of the United States, then, it seems to me
that the doctrine of the immediate placing of the tariff laws
outside the line of newly acquired territory, however extreme
may be the opinion entertained of the doctrine of immediate incorporation, is inadmissible and in conflict with the Constitution.
Let-me look at and illustrate it from the point of view of the
ceded territory. In doing so let me take for granted the accuracy of suggestions which have been advanced in argument.
It is said that the public revenues of the Island of Porto Rico,
except only such as were raised by a burdensome and complicated excise tax on incomes and business vocations, had always
been chiefly obtained by duties on imports and exports; that
our internal revenue laws, if applied in the island, would prove
oppreisive and ruinous to many people and interests; that one of
the -staple productions of the island-coffee-had always been
.protected by a tariff duty, whereas under our tariff laws coffee
was admitted into the United States free of duty; that there
-was no. system of direct taxation of property in operation when
the island was ceded, there was no time to establish one, and
such a system, moreover, would have entailed upon the people
burdens incapable of being borne. I cannot conceive that under
the provisions of the Constitution conferring upon Congress the
.power to raise revenue that consequences such as would flow
from immediately putting in force in Porto Rico the revenue
laws of the United States could constitutionally be brought
about without affording to the Congress the opportunity to adjust the revenue laws of the United States to meet the new situation.

ARMSTRONG v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

All these suggestions, however, it is argued, but refer to expediency, and are entitled to no weight as against the theory
that, under the Constitution, the tai-ff laws of the United States
took effect of their own force- immediately upon the cession.
But this is fallacious. For, if it be demonstrated that a particular result cannot be accomplished without destroying the
yevenue power conferred upon Congress by the Constitution,
and without annihilating the conceded authority of the government in other respects, such demonstration shows the unsoundness of the argument which magnifies the results flowing from
the exercise by the treaty-making power of its authority to acquire, to the detriment and destruction of that balanced and
limited government which the Constitution called into being.

ARMSTRONG v. UNITED STATES.
-A.PPEAL FROM THE COURT OF
Wo. 509.

,AIMS.

Argued January 8, 9,10 and 11, 1901.-Decided May 27,1901.

Dooley v. United Sateas, ante, 222, followed.

THis was a petition to the Court of Claims by a, British subject, to recover duties exacted by the collector of the port of
San Juan, and paid under protest, upon goods, wares, and merchandise of the growth; produce, or manufacture of the United
States, between August 12, 1898, and December 5, 1899.

The same demurrer was filed and the same judgment was
entered as in the preceding case.
.M. AIphonso Hart and Mri. Jok G. Carlisle for appellant.

Mr.John

. Chaney and Mr. C

rkZs C.

18

were on Xfr.

.Hart'sbrief.
M'.

oicit r Generalaid Mr. Attorney General for appellee.

