OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

claims of the defendant in error, to wit, the Monarch and the
Mammoth Pearl. The ruling was right. The patents were
proof of the discovery and related back to the date of the locations of the claims. The patents could not be collaterally attacked. This has been decided so often that a citation of cases
is unnecessary.
Judgmen t ajined.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. TALTY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CI-AS.
No. 238. Argued April 12, 15, 1901.-Decided May 27,1901.

In this case this court holds, (1) that it was not error in the court below
to try the case on the amended petition; (2) that the report to the Government of a person employed by the Attorney General in this case was
properly rejected as evidence; (3) that therb was no error in the rulings
of the court below.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. Robert A. Howard for appellant.
ney General Pradewas on his brief.

.Mr.

X1r. A8i8tant Attor-

. B. Edwarda for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE MoKEx A

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Court of Claims under the act
of Congress approved June 16j1880, 21 Stat. 284, c. 243, entitled
"An act to provide for the settlement of all outstanding claims
against the District of Columbia, and conferring jurisdiction
on the Court of Claims to hear the same, and for other purposes."

The purpose of the action was to recover c.ompensation for
work done and materials furnished under certain contracts entered. into between the District of Columbia and appellee. The

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. TALTY.
Opinion of the Court.

court found that there was due appellee, on March 18, 1876,
the sum of $4:180.44, and entered judgment for that amount on

February 20, 1899, from which judgment the District took this
appeal.
The original petition was filed on December 15, 1880, issue
was joined, and the case referred to a referee. Two reports
were made by him, but no trial was had thereon. On the 22d
of June, 1897, on motion of claimant (appellee), the District consenting, the case was referred to Frank W. Hackett, Esq.,
to take and state the account between the parties. On the
28th of July, 1897, the claimant, by leave of the court, filed an
amended petition, in which he alleged that he entered into a
contract with the board of public works of the District on the
7th of August, 1873, numbered 826, for the improvement of certain streets, and for which he was to receive the prices established and paid by the board for work of similar character. The
contract was extended, respectively, on the 17th of September,
1875, land the 3d of December, 1875, to embrace work on
other streets. The contract and the extensions filed by the
Commissioners were referred to. It was alleged that the work
was done to the satisfaction of the District, and was duly measured and certified to by the engineers of the District, and that
the work done amounted to the sum of $49,323.54; amount paid
thereon, $49,033.91 ; leaving due and payable January 15, 1876,
the sum of $289.63. The measurements returned by the Commissioners of the District were referred to.
It was also alleged as follows:
"That under the provisions of the new contracts, called extensions, the claimant performed a large amount of work on
K street, between Third and Seventh northeast, which was duly
accepted by the District of Columbia, and certified measurements issued at the written contract rates, one measurement for
$10,504.60, which was audite4 by the board of audit, and one
measurement for $2570.30. This last measurement was not
audited by the board of audit, not having reached said board
of audit prior to the abolition of said board, and the said measurements, amounting to the sum of $13,074.90, remain due and
unpaid, less the sum of $9184.45 paid on account thereof in

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

partial measurements, leaving a balance due on the work done
under the extensions of said contract the sum of $3890.45, due
and payable March 18, 1876.
"(See measurement of March 18, 1876. Returned by Commissioners of the District of Columbia.)
"The claimant therefore demands judgment against the District of Columbia in the sum of four thousand one hundred and
eighty dollars and eight cents ($4180.08), as a debt against the
District of Columbia, due and payable as follows. $289.63, January 15, 1876, and $3890.45, March 18, 1876, and such other
sums as your petitioner shall prove to be due io him from the
District of Columbia, but which your petitioner cannot at present specifically state, for want of records not in his possession."
There are a number of assignments of error, but, to quote
counsel for the District-"The errors insisted upon by the defendant, the District of
Columbia, all arise from, and may be said to be included in,
the failure to try the case originally brought, and the impossibility, on account of the loss and destruction of all the records
in the case, to statd an account between the claimant and the
District."
it is, therefore, also insisted by the District that claimant
(appellee) "should have endeavored to substitute a petition for
the one lost," and he not having done so, no trial could have
been had. It was on this assumption that the District requested
the court to find (and error is now assigned because the court
did not find) that the original petition was based on other contracts than contract No. 826 and its extensions; that the case
was referred to Daniel Donovan, who made two reports, and
that all of the papers, including the original petition, contracts,
(except contract No. 826 and the two extensions thereof,) vouchers and report of. referee have been lost; that Donovan died
without making a report under the second reference, and that
after the reference to Hackett the petition was amended by
leave of the court; that Donovan reported certain excess of
payments amounting to $1377.03 under contract No. 826, and
was made by allowing for work at "board rates," instead of
contract rates; than the greater part of the settlement made

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. TALTY.
Opinion of the Court.

under contract No. 828, and all settlements under the extensions 6f the contract, were made at "board rates."
It was not error in the court to try the case on the amended
petition. It was filed without objection being made, but it
would have been no error even if objection had been made. It
finally rested the right of recovery upon contract No. 828 and
its extension. That contract and its extensions were relied on
in the original petition. There was, therefore, only a limitation of the action, not a change of it. If the District had any
rights or defences on account of the other contracts, such rights
and defences could have been set up or established by evidence.
We said in UniMd Staks v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246-254, that "the
Court of Claims, in deciding upon the rights of claimants, is not
bound by any special rule of pleading."
The District further contends that the proof of the claimant
was defective, and did not justify the report of 'the referee and
the judgment of the court upon it; and also contends that what
is claimed to be a report of Donovan should have been received
as evidence. Its rejection was certainly not error. Treating
it as a report, it was not acted on in any way; besides, it was
in no sense a report. It is claimed to be, it is true, but it was
found in a letter written by Donovan, in pursuance of his employment at $10 per day, by the Attorney General of the United
States, to Mr. Brannigan, one of the assistant attorneys of the
Department of Justice., In other words, what is claimed to
have been found out and reported by Donovan, as attorney
against the claim, is urged as evidence against the claim. The
paper is as follows:
"1W smaxGToN, D. C., June 25, 1891.
"Felix Brannigan, Esq.,
"Assistant Attorney, Department of Justice.
"Sir: In compliance with your request and verbal instructions, and under my appointment by the Attorney General of
the United States of November 11, 1890, I have made a careful,
thorough and searching investigation of all records, vouchers
and other papers pertaining to every of the cases relating to
the District of Columbia now pending in the United States
VOL. oLxxx=-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Claims under the act of June 16,1880, and beg to submit the following report as the result of such research:
"Stephen Talty
)
I"
No. 335.
The District of Columbia.

Referred list (p. 36).

"This case involved the examination and stating of accounts
under seven separate and distinct contracts. It was referred
to me as referee by the Court of Claims, and was reported under
a rule of said court, heretofore referred to in Murray's case
No. 90.

Said report shows that claimant is entitled to recover
from the defendant under his several contracts the
sum of ....................................... $1814: 79
It further shows that claimant is indebted to defendant, by reason of overpayment by the board of
audit, in the amount of ....................... 989 71
Thus leaving a net balance due claimant ........... $825 08
Attached to said report and forming part thereof is the following set-off :
File No. 22. 61.5 square yards of cobblestone pavement relaid, allowed at 37 cents per yard in lieu of
30 cents, the contract rate. Excess, 7 cents per yard
on 61.5 yards .................................
$4
8237.98 cubic yards grading, allowed at 40 cents per
yard in lieu of 30 cents, the contract rate. Excess,
10 cents per yard on 8237.98 yards ..............
823
784.20 cubic yards rock excavation, allowed at $1.00
per yard in lieu of 30 cents per yard, the contract
rate. Excess, 10 cents per yard on 784.20 yards..
548
Total .................................... $1377

30

79

94:
03

"A more thorough and exhaustive examination of the records
which constitute my former report in this case convince me that
the counterclaim therein reported is both erroneous and unjust,
for the reason that M street northwest, wherein the alleged excessive allowances were made claimant, was in fact, at the time

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. TALTY.
Opinion ofj the Court.

he did the work, a= old graveled street, and also that rock was
encountered in part of it. It also appears that nearly the whole
of the work was -done under the Commissioners of the District
of Columbia, and that the prices certified by the engineer and
paid Talty were what are commonly known as 'board rates,'
and that said allowances were not made under any mistake of
fact, but that they were the prices universally paid to other contractors doing similar work at the time.
"I am therefore of the opinion that my former report should
be amended by striking out the set-off therein stated, and finding a balance due Talty of $825.08, with interest from March 1,
1876. All of which is respectfully submitted.
"DAw DoNovA.
(Signed)
"Correct copy.

A. McK

ziE,

"Acting Auditor., District of Columbia."
The objections to the reports of the referee are untenable.
It is impossible, however, to quote the reports without unduly
extending this opinion. It is enough to say they were stated to
have been founded upon depositions of witnesses and "original
sheets of measurements taken from the field book of the engineer
measuring the work." They exhibited the measurements and
the quantity of material in tabulated form. Other papers were
used and figures taken from original books in the possession of
the District. The referee reported:
"It was agreed at the hearing that the papers heretofore filed
in this case have disappeared. Search in the office of the attorney for the District, and at the house of Mr. Donovan, former
referee, has failed to discover anything of these papers. It is
not charged that their disappearance is due to any fault of the
claimant.
"In these circumstances the referee is satisfied to rely upon
the memoranda in the sheets just referred to."
The report also set out contract No. 828 and its extension, and
an itemized account of the work done and materials furnished,
certified by the assistant engineer of the District.
It is not necessary to set out at length the objections to the
report and those to the rulings of the court in refusing certain

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

findings. We have examined and considered them and are of
the opinion that there was no error in the rulings of the court,
and the judgment is
Aflirmed.

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 242. Argued April 16, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
This was an action at law against the United States upon an alleged implied contracf to pay for the use of a patented invention belonging to the
plaintiffs in error, in rifles used by the Government -wbich had been purchased under contract from a Norwegian Company. It was conceded that
a contract must be established in order to entitle appellants to recover, as
the Court of Claims has no jurisdiction of demands against the United
States founded on torts. Held, that on the facts proved in this case no
such contract was proved against the United States, and that if the petitioners have suffered injury, it has been through the infringement of
their patent, and not by a breach of contract.

This was an action for $100,000, brought in the Court of
Claims by the appellants, upon an implied contract, asserted to
have arisen from the use by the United States of Krag-Jorgensen rifles, which rifles contained, it is claimed, certain features,
which were the invention of Russell, one of the appellants.
The United States demurred to the petition, and the demurrer
was sustained.
The facts as presented by the petition are as follows: That
on or about August 3, 1880, letters patent No. 230,823, for certain new and useful improvements in firearms, were granted to
Russell, and that he and Livermore are now the owners of such
invention.
That pursuant to an advertisement by a board of officers
convened under the act of Congress, approved February 24,1881,
to select a magazine rifle for the service of the United States,
Russell submitted to said board an operative magazine rifle

