OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

HUUS v. NEW YORK AND PORTO RICO STEAMSHIP
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 514. Argued January 11,14,1901.-Decided May 27,1901.

Vessels engaged in trade between Porto Rican ports and ports of the United
States are engaged in the coasting trade in the sense in which those words
are used in the New York pilotage statutes; and steam vessels engaged in
such trade are coastwise steam vessels under Revised Statutes, section 4444.

THIS was a libel filed in the District Court for the Southern
District of New York to rQcover spoken pilotage upon the
American built steamship Ponce, belonging to the defendant, a
New York corporation.
The facts were that libellant, on June 25, 1900, offered his
service as a Sandy Hook pilot to the master of the Ponce, then
about entering the harbor of New York, her port of distination,
from the port of San Juan, in the Island of Porto Rico. Libellant, who was a duly licensed Sandy Hook pilot, was the first
and only one to offer his services. These services were declined
by the master of the vessel, who was himself a licensed pilot
for the harbor of NewYork under the laws of the United States.
The steamship was at the time duly enrolled and licensed for
!he coasting trade under the laws of the United States, and
was engaged in trade between Porto Rico and New York. The
libel was dismissed by the District Court, 105 Fed. Rep. 74, an
appeal taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which certified
to this court the following questions of law, concerning which
it desired instructions:
" I. Since the proclamation of the treaty of peace between
the United States and the Kingdom of Spain, and the passage
of the act of Congress entitled ' An act temporarily to provide

HUUS v. NEW YORK &c. STEAMSHIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

revenues and civil government for Porto Rico, and for other
purposes,' (approved April 12, 1900,) do Porto Rican ports remain foreign ports in the sense in which those words are used
in the statutes of the State of New York regulating pilotage'
"2. Are vessels engaged in trade between Porto Rican ports
and ports of the United States engaged in the coasting trade
in the sense in which those words are used in the statutes of the
State of New York regulating pilotageI
"3. Are steam vessels engaged in trade between Porto Rican
ports and ports of the United States coastwise steam vessels in
the sense in which those words are used in section 4444 of' the
Revised Statutes of the United States?"
.Mr. WTlliam Lindsay for appellant.
W. F. .inghuqy Curtisfor appellee.
Curtis was on his brief.

.Ar. W=ltiamEdmond

MR.JUsTIcE BRoww, after stating the

case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
Conceding it to be within the power of Congress to assume
control of and regulate the whole system of pilotage, as applied
to vessels engaged in foreign or interstate commerce, it has for
obvious reasons left to the several States the power to legislate
upon this subject, and to prescribe rules for the licensing and
government of pilots, the collection of their fees, and such other
incidental matters as the nature of their services in the particular localities may require. The power to do this was recognized
by this court in Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299,
though it was subsequently said to be subject to such restrictions
as Congress might see fit to impose. Spraigue v. Tktompson,
118 U. S 90.
By Rev Stat. see. 4235, it is expressly enacted that "until
further provision is made by Congress, all pilots in the bays,
inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports of the United States shall
continue to be regulated in conformity with the existing laws
of the States respectively whereiii such pilots may be," sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ject, however, to a prohibition (see. 4237) against "any discrimination in the rate of pilotage or half-pilotage between
vessels sailing between the ports of one State and vessels sailing between the ports of different States, or any discrimination
against vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam;" and
to a further restriction (sec. 4401) that "all coastwise seagoing
vessels- .
shall be subject to the navigation laws of the
United States,
and that every coastwise seagoing steam
vessel subject to the navigation laws of the United States, and
to the rules and regulations aforesaid, not sailing under register,
shall, when under way, except on the high seas, be under the
control and direction of pilots licensed by the inspectors of
steamboats." To further effectuate its control over coastwise
seagoing vessels, it is provided by sec. 4444 that "no State or
municipal government shall impose upon pilots of steam vessels any obligation to procure a state or other license in addition to that issued by the United States. . . . Nor shall
any pilot charges be levied by any such authority upon any
steamer piloted as provided by this title,"
although
"nothing in this title shall be construed to annul or affect any
regulation established by the laws of any State requiring vessels entering or leaving a port in any such State, other than
coastwise 8teagn vessels, to take a pilot duly licensed or authorized by the laws of such State, or of a State situated upon the
waters of such State."
The general object of these provisions seems to be to license
pilots upon steam vessels engaged in the coa8twise or interior
commerce of the country, and at the same time, to leave to
the States the regulation of pilots upon all vessels engaged in
foreign commerce.
This view was evidently accepted by the legislature of New
York, which, in section 2119 of the Consolidated Act of 1882,
declares that "no master of any vessel navigated under a coasting license and employed in the coasting trade by way of Sandy
Hook, shall be required to employ a licensed pilot when entering or departing from the harbor of New York;" but reserving its own control of vessels engaged in the foreign trade by
enacting further in the same section that "all masters of for-

HUUS v. NEW YORK &c. STEAMSHIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

eign vessels and vessels from a foreign port, and all vessels
sailing under register bound to or from the port of New York
or by the way of Sandy Hook, shall take a licensed pilot, or, in
case of refusing to take such pilot, shall himself, owners or
consignees, pay the said pilotage as if one had been employed,
and such pilotage shall be paid to the pilot first speaking or
offering his services as pilot to such vessel," with a final proviso that "this section shall not apply to vessels propelled
wholly or in part by steam, owned or belonging to citizens of
the United States, and licensed and engaged in the coasting
trade."
As the statement of facts connected with the question certified
shows that the Ponce was an American built steamship, sailing
from New York, belonging to a New York corporation, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, navigated by a master duly licensed to act as pilot in the bay and harbor of New
York, under the laws of the United States, and was engaged
in trade between the Island of Porto Rico and the port of New
York, the only question remaining to be considered is whether

she was a coastwise seagoing steam vessel under Rev. Stat.

sec. 4401, and actually employed in the coasting trade by way
of Sandy Hook under sec. 2111 of the New York Consolidation Act.
Under the commercial and navigation laws of the United
States merchant vessels are divisible into two classes: First,
vessels registered pursuant to Rev. Stat. sec. 4131. These
must be wholly owned, commanded and officered by citizens
of the United States, and are alone entitled to engage in foreign trade; and, second, vessels enrolled and licensed for the
coasting trade or fisheries. Rev. Stat. sec. 4311. These may
not engage in foreign trade under penalty of forfeiture. Section 4337. This class of vessels is also engaged in navigation
upon the Great Lakes and the interior waters of the countryin other words, they are engaged in domestic instead of foreign
trade.
The words "coasting trade," as distinguishing this class of
vessels, seem to have been selected because at that time all the
domestic commerce of the country was either interior com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of thQ Court.

merce, or coastwise, between ports upon the Atlantic or Pacific
coasts, or upon islands so near thereto, and belonging to the several States, as properly to constitute a part of the coast. Strictly
speaking Porto Rico is not such an island, as it is not only situated some hundreds of miles from the nearest port on the Atlantic
coast, but had never belonged to the United States, or any of
the States composing the Union. At the same time trade with
that island is properly a part of the domestic trade of the country since the treaty of annexation, and is so recognized by the
Porto Rican or Foraker act. By section 9 the Commissioner
of Navigation is required to "make such regulations
as he may deem expedient for the nationalization of all vessels
owned by the inhabitants of Porto Rico on April 11, 1899,
.

.

.

and for the admission of the same to all the benefits

of the coasting trade of the United States; and the coasting
trade between Porto Rico and the United States shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of law applicable to
such trade between any two great coasting districts of the Uni-ted States." By this act it was evidently intended, not only
to nationalize all Porto Rican vessels as vessels of the United
States, and to admit them to the benefits of their coasting
trade, but to place Porto Rico substantially upon the coast of
the United States, and vessels engaged in trade between that
island and the continent, as engaged in the coasting trade.
This was the view taken by the executive officers of the government in issuing an enrollment and license to the Ponce, to
be employed in carrying on the coasting trade, instead of treat
ing her as a vessel engaged in foreign trade.
That the words "coasting trade" are not intended to be
strictly limited to trade between ports in adjoining districts is
also evident from Rev. Stat. see. 4358, wherein it is enacted that
"the coasting trade between the territory ceded to the United
States by the Emperor of Russia, and any other portion of the
United States, shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of law applicable to such trade between any two great districts." These great districts were, for the more convenient
regulation of the coasting trade, divided by the act of March 2,
1819, 3 Stat. 492, o. 48, as amended by the act of Mav 7,1822,

HUUS v. NEW YORK &c. STEAMSHIP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 684; Rev. Stat. sec. 4348, as follows: "The first to include all the collection districts on the seacoast and navigable
rivers between the eastern limits of the United States and the
southern limits of Georgia; the second to include all the collection districts on the seacoast and navigable rivers between
the river Perdido and the Rio Grande; and the third to include
all the collection districts on the seacoast and navigable rivers
between the southern limits of Georgia and the river Perdido."
A provision similar to that for the admission of the Territory
of Alaska was also adopted in the act to provide a government
for the Territory of Hawaii, (31 Stat. 141, sec. 98,) which provides that all vessels carrying Hawaiian registers on August 12,
1888, and owned by citizens of the United States or citizens of
Hawaii, "shall be entitled to be registered as American vessels, . . . and the coasting trade between the islands aforesaid and any other portion of the United States shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of law applicable to such
trade between any two great coasting districts."
This use of the words "coasting trade" indicates very clearly
that the words were intended to include the domestic trade of
the United States upon other than interior waters. The District
Court was correct in holding that the Ponce was engaged in
the coasting trade, and that the Kew York pilotage laws did not
apply to her.
The second and third question8 are therefore answered in the
affirmative. An answer to the fir8t que8tion ecome8 vnneces8ary.

