ARMSTRONG v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

All these suggestions, however, it is argued, but refer to expediency, and are entitled to no weight as against the theory
that, under the Constitution, the tai-ff laws of the United States
took effect of their own force- immediately upon the cession.
But this is fallacious. For, if it be demonstrated that a particular result cannot be accomplished without destroying the
yevenue power conferred upon Congress by the Constitution,
and without annihilating the conceded authority of the government in other respects, such demonstration shows the unsoundness of the argument which magnifies the results flowing from
the exercise by the treaty-making power of its authority to acquire, to the detriment and destruction of that balanced and
limited government which the Constitution called into being.

ARMSTRONG v. UNITED STATES.
-A.PPEAL FROM THE COURT OF
Wo. 509.

,AIMS.

Argued January 8, 9,10 and 11, 1901.-Decided May 27,1901.

Dooley v. United Sateas, ante, 222, followed.

THis was a petition to the Court of Claims by a, British subject, to recover duties exacted by the collector of the port of
San Juan, and paid under protest, upon goods, wares, and merchandise of the growth; produce, or manufacture of the United
States, between August 12, 1898, and December 5, 1899.

The same demurrer was filed and the same judgment was
entered as in the preceding case.
.M. AIphonso Hart and Mri. Jok G. Carlisle for appellant.

Mr.John

. Chaney and Mr. C

rkZs C.

18

were on Xfr.

.Hart'sbrief.
M'.

oicit r Generalaid Mr. Attorney General for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
I
Mia. JUSTICE

Syllabus.

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is controlled by the case of Dooky v. UnitedStatea,
No. 501, just decided. So far as the duties were exacted upon
goods imported prior to the ratification of the treaty of April 11,
1899, they were properly exacted. So far as they were imposed
upon importations after that date and prior to December 5,1899,
plaintiff is entitled to recover them back.

The judgment of the Court of Claim8 is therefore reversed
and the case remanded to that court for further proceeding8 not inconsistent with this opinion.

DOWNES v. BIDWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 507. Argued January 8, 9,10,11,1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.1

By MR.JUSTICE BRoWN, in announcing the conclusion and judgment of
the court.
The Circuit Courts have jurisdiction, regardless of amount, of actions
against a collector of customs for duties exacted and paid under protest
upon merchandise alleged not to have been imported.
The island of Porto Rico is not a part of the United States within that provision of the Constitution which declares that "all duties, imposts, and
excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
1

In announcing the conclusion and judgment of the court in this case,
MR. JUSTICE BROWN delivered an opinion. MR. JusTIcE WnrvE delivered a concurring opinion which was also concurred in by Mn. JUSTICE
SHiRAs and MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA. MR. JUSTICE GBAY also delivered a
concurring opinion. The Chief Justice, MR.JusTIcE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREwER,and MR.JUSfICE PECKHAM dissented. Thus it is seen that
there is no opinion in which a majority of the court concurred. Under
thdse circumstances I have, after consultation with MR. JUSTICE BROWN,
who announced the judgment, made headnotes of each of the sustaining
opinions, and placed before each the names of the justices or justice who
concurred in it.

