OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

plains was not granted while the original case was in this court
nor until after our mandate had been filed in the court of original jurisdiction.
Our conclusions are: 1. That the statute of Arkansas in question, which was made by Congress the law of the Indian Territory, is to be held applicable only to actions and proceedings
at law in the courts of that 'territory, as distinguished from
suits or proceedings in equity; 2. That an application under
that statute, within the time prescribed, for a new trial in an
action at law, upon grounds discovered after the term at which
the verdict or decision was rendered, was a matter of right,
and did not require the leave of any court-the application
constituting, on appeal, a new action, in which summons or
process would regularly issue against the adverse party, and
which must be heard and determined by the court upon evidence adduced by the parties.
It results that the court qf originaljurisdictionacted within
the authority conferred upon it, aihd the rule for a mandato set aside the order grantinga new trial
mus compelling it.
mutbe discharged, and it is so ordered.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MOULTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
. No. 224. Argued April 9,10, 1901.-I)ecided May

2Z, 1901.

Park street is a public highway in the northwest section. of the city of

Washington. For some days before the accident which was the ground
of this action, a steam roller had been useddin connection with the work
of resurfacing the street with macadam. This roller became disabled,
and was placed close to the south curb of the street, a canvas cover was
placed over it, and it was left there for two days. On the second day the
horse of the plaintiff in error, being driven along the street, became restive from tile flapping of the canvas cover, reared, and upset the vehicle,
and threw out the plaihitiff, injuring him. Held that the District of Columbia was not liable for the injuries which the plaintiff so suffered.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, v. MOULTON.
Statement of the Case.

Tnis action was begun by the defendant in error in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. In substance he
asserted in his declaration a right to recover from the District
of Columbia a specified sum, upon the ground that by its negligence, on November 26, 1896, he had sustained serious personal
injury. The negligence averred consisted in this, that for a
space of two days prior to and including the date named the
District had negligently and knowingly left upon a public highway known as Park street a large steam roller, which was calculated to frighten horses of ordinary gentleness; and while
plaintiff was driving along said street, with due care, in a carriage drawn by a horse of that disposition, the animal was
frightened and rendered unmanageable by the steam roller, and
in the struggles of the horse one of the wheels of the carriage
was broken, plaintiff was thrown out upon the ground with
great force, and he sustained the injuries for which recovery
was asked: Defendant filed a plea of the general issue.
The evidence most favorable to the contention of the plaintiff tended to show the following: Park street is a public high,
way in the northwest section of the city of Washington, commencing at Fourteenth street and running westwardly. For
several days prior to the accident in question a steam roller had
been used in connection with the work of resurfacing Park.
street with macadam. This roller was bf the kind usually employed in constructing macadamized gravel, roads. It had
three wheels, the tread of the rear wheel being about eight feet,
which was its extreme width. The machine was about eight
feet long and about five or six feet high. The smokestack was
a little higher than the other part of the machine. While the
roller was in use, on the forenoon of the day before the accident hereinafter referred to, it "broke'down." The nature of
the injury to the roller does not appear, otherwise than as it
may be inferred from the fact that the roller was subsequently
removed by horse power, that the machinery was simply disabled. On becoming out of order, the roller was placed close
to the south curb of Park street, from twenty to fifty feet west
of Pine street-a street fifty feet in width-and distant about
nine hundred feet westwardly from Fourteenth street. Over
voL. cLxxx

1-37

OCTOBER TERU, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the roller was placed a canvas cover. The roadway proper, at
the point where the roller was stationed, was about twentyeight feet wide, and there was ample room for the passage of
vehicles between the roller and the northerly side of Park street.
About 3 o'clock on the afternoon of November 26, 1896,
(Thanksgiving Day,) plaintiff drove into Park street from
Fourteenth street, and as he did so saw the steam roller. The
horse he was driving was one which the plaintiff had owned
for several years, was regarded as of an ordinary gentle disposition and had several times been driven safely past steam rollers
when they were in actual operation. Plaintiff guided his horse,
intending to pass by the roller in the space to the right thereof,
but on approaching Pine street the horse became restive-from
the flapping of the canvas cover on the roller or from some
other cause-and when about opposite the middle of Pine street
became unmanageable, reared and upset the vehicle, throwing
out and injuring the plaintiff. The evidence also tended to
show that other horses in passing the toller had exhibited fear.
The case was tried to a jury, and resulted in a verdict for
the plaintiff. On appeal the judgment was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals of the District. 15 App. D. C. 363.
MX. Andrew B. Duvall for plaintiff in error. -Mr. Clarence
A. Brandenburg was on his brief.
.Mr. A. S. IForthlingtonfor defendant in error. 2Mr. Charee
L. FraileyWas on his brief.
NR. JusTicE WmTE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

That the District of Columbia is not an insurer of the safety
of travelers upon its streets is, of course, unquestioned. This
being so, we think the lower courts erred in upholding the
liability of the District for the injuries sustained by the plaintiff, under the circumstances disclosed in the record.
The steam roller in question had been brought to the place
where the accident occurred for a lawful purpose, viz., that of

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MOULTON.
Opinion of the Court.

performing a duty enjoined upon the.District to keep in repair
the streets subject to its control. The use of an appliance such
as a steam roller was a necessary means to a lawful end-a
means essential to the performance of a duty imposed by law.
It must, therefore, follow that if in the legitimafe and proper
use of such machine, with reasonable notice to the public of
such use, an injury is occasioned to one of the public, such injury is damnum asque ivjuria. Lane v., lewison, 91 Maine,
292, 294; Xorton v. Frankfort, 55 Maine, 46 ;, Cairncrosv.
Pewauee, 78 Wisconsin, 66, commenting upon and explaiiiing
Hughes v. Fond du Lao, 73 Wisconsin, 380. Conceding that the
roller was an object calculated to frighten horses of ordinary
gentleness, yet, at the most, the liability of the municipality for
negligently permitting such objects to remain within the limits
of a highway, if it exists, must primarily be dependent upon the
fact that they are unlawfully upon the highway.
The sole negligence complained of in the declaration was
averred to consist in keeping the steam roller in question on
Park street for. the space of two days so as to be a public
nuisance and dangerous to travelers passing along said street
with their carriages and horses. There was no allegation that
the roller in consequence of its being disabled presented such a
changed appearance that*the danger of its frightening an
animal was enhanced. Nor was there any averment that the
negligence was committed in the use of the canvas covering,
and no proof was offered on the trialtending to show that such
a cover was not the means usually employed to protect steam
rollers from the weather when they were lawfully on the street
and for the time being not in use.
Where but one inference can reasonably be drawn from the
evidence the question of negligence or no negligence is one of
law for the court. .NorthernPacifj Railroad Co. v. freeman,
174 U. S. 379, 384; .etopolitan Railway Co. v. Jackson, 3 App.
Cas. 193. It is only where the evidence is such that reasonable
men may fairly differ as to the deductions to be drawn therefrom, that the determination of the fact of negligence should be
submitted to a jury. Warner v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,
168 U. S. 339, 348. The question which here arises then is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Did the evidence justify the trial court in permitting the jury
to determine whether or not in allowing the disabled roller to
remain at the place referred to, under the circumstances stated,
the District negligently and unlawfully obstructed the highway
We shall assume that the period when the steam roller became unserviceable while in use on Park street was the forenoon
of the day prior to the accident, as claimed by the plaintiff.
The right, however, to use a steam roller upon a public street for
the purpose of the repair of. such street we think necessarily includes the right to retain the roller upon the street until a
reasonable time after the necessity for the use of the machine
has terminated, in the meantime exercising due care in the deposit of the machine when not in use and giving due notice and
warning to the public of the presence of such machine if travel
upon the street is permitted. We can perceive no difference
in principle between using and keeping a steam roller on the
streets until the completion of a particular work and the maintaining a lawful excavation, such as for the construction of a
sewer or of an underground road and the use of an engine, derrick, etc., in connection with the hoisting of earth from an excavation. The appliances used in connection with such excavations, even though calculated to frighten horses of ordinary
gentleness not familiar with such objects, undoubtedly may be
retained at the place where needed until the .necessity therefor
has ceased, and the circumstance that such appliances become
temporarily disabled cannot, in reason, be held to affect the
right of the municipal authorities to keep such machinery on
the works until in the ordinary course of events and in the
exercise of a reasonable discretion it is found convenient either
to there make the needed repairs or to remove the appliances
elsewhere for that purpose. Now, the only inference warranted
by the record is that when the steam roller in question got out
of order it was being used upon the street, and the necessity for
its further use continued to exist. Had the machine not broken
down, or had needed repairs been made to it at the place where
the roller was deposited, it might lawfully have been allowed
to remain upon the street while its further use was required,
and until it was reasonably convenient to remove it. Under

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. v. MOULTON.
Opiniou of the Court.

such a state of facts as has been detailed there was nothing
either in the circumstance of the disabling of the machine, or in
the detention, warranting the inference that the right to leave
the roller upon the street over a legal holiday did not exist, and
that an illegal use of the highway had originated. It follows
that the facts in evidence respecting the keeping of the roller
on Park street during the period referred to did not justify the
submission to the jury of the question whether the District was
negligent in so keeping the machine, as it could not reasonably
have been inferred that the employ6s of the District were negligent in failing to remove the machine before the occurrence
of the accident.
As respects the notice owing to the plaintiff of the presence
of the roller, we agree with the opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine in Lane v. Lewiston, 8upra,that where a
steam roller is allowed to remain upon a municipal highway it
is requisite that the municipality causing the obstruction should
give reasonable notice to the traveling public of its presence,
but that a view of its obstruction itself in time to avoid it without injury amounts to notice. In othei, words, as stated by the
Maine court, "1No one needs notice of what he already knows,"
and "Knowledge of the danger is equivalent to prior notice."
91 Maine, 296. That the plaintiff had notice of the presence
of the roller on Park street in ample time to have avoided it, is
undisputed. When he turned from Fourteenth street into Park
street it was broad daylight, there was nothing to obstruct his
view westward, and in fact he testified that the roller was in
plain sight. He was not induced or directed by the agents of
the District to proceed past the roller. He knew that such
objects sometimes frightened horses, but from his acquaintance
with the disposition of his horse he believed that he could control the animal and drive safely past the roller, and he voluntarily undertook to do so. Now, it seems clear-particularly as
the danger was neither hidden nor concealed-that the District
was under no obligation to restrain the plaintiff from attempting to pass, either by closing Park street or by other means.
The District was not bound to presume that it would be neces8arily hazardous to attempt to drive past the roller, stationary

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and quiet as it was, and familiar as horses in a large city usually
are to the sight and sounds of electric and cable cars and horseless motors. The District, at best, was only chargeable with
notice that the roller was an object which might frighten some
horses of ordinary gentleness, not that it would inevitably do
so. It was bound to give sufficient warning to drivers of the
presence of the roller in time to enable them to avoid passing
it, if desired. The District, however, had a right to assume
that a driver of -mature age was familiar with the habits and
disposition of his horse, and was possessed of the common knowledge respecting the tendency of steam rollers to occasionally
frighten such animals. The roller being lawfully on the street,
the District was not. bound to guard against the consequences
of a voluntary attempt to drive by this roller. Certainly, if a
driver believed that it would not be the natural and proper consequence of such an attempt that his safety would be endangered, the District ought not to be charged with notice that
the attempt would be dangerous either to life or to limb.
The foregoing observations sufficiently indicate the errors
committed by the trial court in the instructions given to the
jury and in the refusal to give requested instructions, to which.
exceptions were noted. It suffices to say in conclusion that the
trial court erred in refusing to instruct the jury, as requested,
that upon the whole evidence in the case their verdict should
be for the District. As said by this court, speaking through
Mr. Justice Blatchford, in Solojeld v. Ckicago, Mfilwaukee &
St. PauZ Railway Co., 114 U. S. 615, 618:
"It is the settled law of this court that, when the evidence
gven at the trial, with all the inferences which the jury could
justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support, a verdict for
.the plaintiff, so that 'such a verdict, if returned, must be set
aside, the court is not bound to submit the case to the jury, but
may direct a verdict for the defendant. Improvement Co. v.
.Hunon,14 Wall. 442; Peasantsv. Fant, 22 Wall. 116; Herbert v. Butler, 97 U. S. 319; Bowditcl v. Boston, 101 U. S. 16;
Griggs v. Houston, 104 U. S. 553; Randall v. Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 478 ; Anderson County Comrs. v.

JACOBS v. MARKS.
Statement of the Case.

Beal, 113 U. S. 227; Bayli8 v. Taveler' In8urance Co., 113
U. S. 316."
The judgment of the Court of Azpeale of the Districtof Columbia i8 revermed, with i71tructions to that court to revere
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Districtof Columbia,
and to grant a new triaZ.

JACOBS v. MARKS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 410.

Snbmitted Jianuary 7, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.

The question whether the record and judicial proceedings in the Michigan
court received full faith and credit, in the courts of Illinois is.one for this
court to consider and determine; and it holds that, upon the facts disclosed in the record, the courts of Illinois did give to the judgment and
judicial proceedings of the state court of Michigan full faith and credit,
within the meaning of the Constitution.
The judgment in question in this case did not necessarily import that the
plaintiff had received satisfaction of her claim.
The distinction between Haldermaa v. United States, 91 U. S. 584, and
United States v. Parker,120 U. S. 89, shown.
IN June, 1896, Dora Marks brought an action in the circuit
court of Cook County, Illinois, against Lewis Jacobs, for false
representations and deceit whereby the plaintiff had been induced to become a member of a corporation known "as the
Chicago Furniture and Lumber-Company of Escanaba, Michigan, composed of said Jacobs and one Nathan Neufeldt, and to
pay into such concern the sum of $5000. The plaintiff sought
to recover in this action the money so expended by her, alleging
that the shares of stock so taken by her in said company were
worthless.
The defendant filed a demurrer to the declaration, which was
overruled, and thereupon he filed a plea of not guilty; and also
several special pleas, in which he set up, in substance, that the

