OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

As the shares of stock were taxed as other similar property
in Utah and no discrimination was occasioned, we can perceive
no ground for concluding that the refusal to deduct the value of
the real estate in question constituted either a violation of section 5219, Revised Statutes, or a denial of the equal protection
of the laws.
Judgment aijrmed.

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
ORiGIAL APPLIcATIoN FOR mANDA.mUS.
No. 7. Argued and submltted April 15, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
The court below, of original jurisdiction in this case, had authority, upon
newly discovered evidence, to grant to the railway company a new trial,
after the final decision of this case at law in that court.
It was competent for Congress to confer upon such court, established under
the an hority of the United States, the power to grant a new trial in an
action at law upon grounds discovered after the expiration of the term at
which the verdict or decision was rendered.
The statute does not declare that the right to apply for a new trial upon
newly discovered evidence after the term shall be any the less when the
original term is superseded; nor that anew trial of anaction at law shall
not be applied for or granted, while the case is pending in the appellate
court.
The statute of Arkansas in question is applicable only to actions and proceedings at law in the courts of that Territory, as distinguished from
suits or proceedings in equity; and as application under that statute,
within the time prescribed, for a new trial in an action at law, upon
grounds discovered after the term at which the verdict or decision was
rendered, was a matter of right, which did not require leave of any
court.

Tins was a motion for leave to file a petition of mandamus,
and a petition therefor.
Mr. Richard B. Shepard,.21. Harrio 0. Shepard and Mr.
Wiliam T. Hutching8, for petitioner, submitted on their brief.

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Jame8. Hagermaz for respondent. XrA. Oiord L.
Jackwn and -Yr. Jo h -. Bry8on were on his brief.
Mv-JusTIoE

&xiERL.delivered

the opinion of the court.

Orange Fuller, assignee of Butler Brothers, brought an action
on the 23d day Qf January, 1892, in the United States Court in
"theIndian Territory against the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company to recover the damages alleged to have been
sustained in consequence of the negligence of the defendant resulting in the destruction of certain property of Butler Brothers

by fire.
On the 1st day of May, 1894, the venue of the case.was
changed to the second judicial division of the Territory, now
the Central District, and the result of a trial before the court
and a jury was a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff
for $8500.
The judgment was superseded, and the cause was taken to
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, where the record was filed April 3, 1895. In that court
the judgment -was affirmed on the 30th day of December, 1895.
72 Fed. Rep. 467.
The judgment of affirmance was superseded, and the case
was brought to this court upon writ of error sued out by the
railway company, the transcript of record being filed here on
March 10, 1896. In this court the judgmefit of the Circuit
Court o.f Appeals was affirmed January 3,1898. 168 U. S. '107.
Our mandate was issued March 3, 1898, and filed in the United
States Court in the Indian Territory oir July 22, 1898.
On the 20th day of April, 1896, while the case was pending
in this court, the railway company filed in the United States
Court in the Indian Territory a petition for rehearing upon the
ground of newly.discovered evidence. Subsequently, at different
dates, amended petitions were filed by the company for a new
trial. To those amended petitions answers were made, and it
was objected that the court was without jurisdiction or authority
to grant a new trial, and that it could not consider the alleged
newly-discovered evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 15th of January, 1900, after the filing in the court of
original jurisdiction of the mandate of this court, Judge Clayton of that court granted the application of the railway company and made an order for a new trial.
It should be here stated that in that court there were other
cases of a like character with the present case-all growing out
of the fire on account of which the present action was brought.
One of those cases was Afissouri, .ansas & Yexas Railway
Company v. Wilder. In that case the United States Court of
Appeals for the Indian Territory adjudged that the plaintiff was
not entitled to recover. 53 S.W. Rep. 490.
In the order granting a new trial in the present case it was
stated: "Now at this day comes the above named defendant,
and in support of the fourth amended petition for a new trial
in this case files certified copy of opinion of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Indian Territory, in the case of
Yissouri, -tansas & Texas Railway Company, Appellant, v.
William I. Wilder, Appellee, and the court having fully considered the said amended petition for a new trial in this case,
which was heretofore continued by agreement between counsel
to this the December, 1899, term of this court, together with the
evidence thereon, and the briefs of counsel filed both in support
and in opposition to said amended petition for new trial, and
the court having been fully advised in the premises finds that
the original petition for new trial was filed on the twentieth day
of April, 1896, in accordance with section 5155 of Mansfield's
Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, extended over the Indian
Territory by act of Congress, May 2, 1890, and that summons
was duly issued and served upon the plaintiff as required by
said statute, and that the said plaintiff has duly entered his appearance in these proceedings, and filed answer to the original
petition for new trial, as well as to the different amendments
thereto, as such amendments have been based upon such additional evidence as the defendant alleges was discovered subsequent to the filing of the original petition for new trial and
amended petitions for new trial respectively, and the court further finds that the evidence fully sustains the said petition for
new trial and that under the statute hereinbefore referred to,

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and in view of the opinion of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Indian Territory in the case of the Xf~iwouri, Kansas &
Texa8 Railway Company, Appellant, v. Willian . Wilder,
Appellee, a companion case to this, that said petition should be
sustained. Wherefore the court orders that the said petition be
sustained and a new trial be granted."
After setting out the above, the return made by Judge Clayton to the rule herein continued: " Respondent would respectfully further show that it appeared upon the hearing of the
petition for new trial in the OrangeFullercase that the defendant railway company had used all possible diligence to discover
the actual origin of the fire upon which that suit was founded
prior to the time of the trial of that case, and that it was to a
large extent prevented from so doing by the strong influence
which plaintiffs in said case exerted over the minds of the
people in the community where the fire occurred, and also by
the action of one of the plaintiffs who it was shown urged
several of the witnesses to conceal what information they had
with reference to the origin of the fire, and that after the trial
of the OrangeFullercase in the District Court the said railway
company continued its efforts to discover the real origin of the
fire, and as a result of its efforts it produced reliable new witnesses who proved by newly discovered and strong circumstantial evidence that the fire was set out through accident by one
Dole Baugh, and also proved by the admission of the said Dole
Baugh, made while the fire was burning, that he had so set it out,
and it was this evidence which largely induced the United
States Court of Appeals for the Indian Territory to render their
opinion of reversal heretofore cited in the said Wilder case as
well as induced the plaintiffs- in the companion cases to dismiss
their cases, and that not only the judges of the District Court
and the United States Court of Appeals for the Indian Territory, but the plaintiffs in the above suits, became satisfied that
these suits were all matters of great injustice and wrong, and
satisfied this respondent that the original judgment in the
Orange Fuller case was also a great injustice and wrongfully
obtained and had the actual truth been fully known and not
purposely concealed that the judgment in the Orange -Fuller

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

case would not have been affirmed by the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit or this honorable court,
and your respondent further realized that a greater injustice
and wrong would be done by permitting the plaintiffs in this
said Orange uZkler case to recover when the truth had been
suppressed, and when all other plaintiffs were prevented from
recovering because of the fact that the whole truth had come
to light."
The present proceeding is. an application for leave to file a
petition for a mandamus commanding the judge of the United
States Court in the Indian Territory to set aside the above
order of January 15, 1900, granting a new trial, and to execute
the mandate of this court.
The question presented is whether the court of original jarisdiction had authority upon newlydiscovered evidence to grant
to the railway company a new trial after the final decision in
this court.
By the act of Congress of May 2,1890, providing a temporary
'government for the Territory of Oklahoma and enlarging the
jurisdiction of the United States Court in the Indian Territory
and for other purposes, it was declared:'
"1§31. That certaih general laws of the State of Arkansas in
force at the close of the session of the general assembly of that
State of 1883, as published in 1884: in the volume known as
Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, which are not
locally inapplicable or in conflict with this act or with any law
of Congress, relating to the subjects specially mentioned in this
section, are hereby extended over and put in force in the Indian
Territory until Congress shall otherwise provide, that is to say,
the provisions of the said general statutes of Arkansas relating
to pleadings and practice, chapter 119." 26 Stat. 81,
94, c. 182.
In Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, c. 119,
will be found the following sections under the head of Pleadings and Practice:
"§ 5151. A new trial is a r 6xamination in the same court of
an-issue of fact after a verdict by a jury or a decision by the
court. The former verdict or decision may be vacated and a

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.

567.

Opinion of the Court.

new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,
for any of the following causes, affecting materially the substantial rights of such party: . . . Second. Misconduct of
the jury or prevailing party. . .
Seventh. Newly disccered evidence, material for the party applying, which he could
not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced
at the trial."
"§ 5153. The application for a new trial must be made at
the term the verdict or decision is rendered, and, except for the
cause mentioned in subdivision 7 of section 5151, shall be within
three days after the verdict or decision was rendered, unless
unavoidably prevented.
"§ 5154. The application must be made by motion, upon
written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. The
grounds mentioned in the second, third and seventh subdivisions
of section 5J51 must be sustained by affidavits showing their
truth, and may be controverted by affidavits.
"§ 5155. Where grounds for new trial are discovered after
the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered, the
application may be made by petition filed with the clerk not
later than the second term after the discovery, on which a summons shall issue, as on other complaints, requiring the adverse
party to appear and answer it on or before the first day of the
next term. The application shall stand for hearing at the term
to which the summons is returned execitted, and shall be summarily decided by the court. The evidence may either be by
depositions or by witnesses examined in court. But no such
application shall be made more than three years after the final
judgment was rendered."
Many of the cases cited by the petitioner have no application
to the present proceeding. They relate to suits in equity and
to the power of the court of original jurisdiction in an equity
suit to prevent or stay the execution of the mandate of an appellate court. There can be no doubt as to what is the rule
recognized in cases of that kind in the courts of the United
States or in courts established by its authority.
In Southard v. 1'usse, 16 How. 547,. p. 570, it was said:
"Nor will a bill of review lie in the case of newly discovered

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence after the publication, or decree below, where a decision
has taken place on an appeal, unless the right is reserved in the
decree of the appellate court, or permission be given on an application to that court directly for the purpose. This appears
to be the practice of the Court of Chancery and House of Lords,
in England, and we think it founded in principles essential to
the proper administration of the law, and to a reasonable teimination of litigation between the parties in chancery suits." So
in United States v. .Knigkt, 1 Black, 488, 489: "The defeated
party, upon the discovery of new evidence, may, after a final
decree in this court, obtain leave here to file a bill of review in
the court below to review the judgment which this court had
rendered." In Sandford F'ork& Tool Co., Petitioner,160 U. S.
247, 255, the court said: " When
a case has been once decided
by this court on appeal, and remanded to the Circuit Court,
whatever was before this court, and disposed of by its decree,
is considered as finally settled. The Circuit Court is bound by
the decree as the law of the case; and must carry it into execution, according to the mandate. That court cannot vary it,
or examine it for any other purpose than execution; or give
any other or further relief; or review it, even for apparent
error, upon any matter decided on appeal; or intermeddle with
it, further than to settle so much as has been remanded. Sibbald v. United States, 12 Pet. 488, 492; Texas & Pacifrc Railway v. Anderson, 149 U. S. 237. If the Circuit Court mistakes
or misconstrues the decree of this court, and does not give full
effect to the mandate, its action may be controlled, either upon
a new appeal (if involving a sufficient amount) or by a writ of
mandamus to execute the mandate of this court." See also I re
Potts,'Petitioner,166 U. S. 263, 267-8.
The action against, the railway company was one at law, and
whether.the court in the Indian Territory had authority to
grant the new trial of which complaint is made depends upon
the Arkansas statute which, by the act of Congress, was made
a law of the Indian Territory. Sections 5153 and 5154 evidently refer to the ordinary motion or' application for a new
trial made during the term at which the verdict of the jury or
the decision of the court is rendered. Section 5155 relates to

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

new trials for grounds disclosed after the term, and requires
such grounds to be set forth in a petition, summons upon which
shall issue against the adverse party. A,proceeding under that
section is, in form, a new, independent suit, although the statute requires the application to be summarily decided by the
court.
These statutory provisions apply to actions at law, not suits.
in equity. This view is supported by the decision of the Su•preme Court of Arkansas in Jacbv. Adair,33 Arkansas, 161,167
(1878). Referring to the statute giving authority fo grant a
new trial after the term upon the ground of newly discovered
evidence, that court said : "The correct view of the statute in
question seems to be this: that it extends to cases at law a new
remedy, without taking away any which existed in equity, but
as to the latter being cumulative, where any difference might
exist. It is noticeable that the word Idecrees' is not used,
which is the apt dud ordinary designation of final orders in
equity; and there are other indications in the language and
context of the provisions in question, that they were primarily
intended for cases at l~w, and for new trials of facts found by
a jury, or a court sitting as such." '
We perceive no reason to doubt that the action of the court
of original jurisdiction was justified by the statute.- So that
the only question remaining is whether it was competent for
Congress to confer upon such court, established under the authority of the United States, the power to grant a new trial in
an action at law upon grounds discovered after the expiration
of the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered.
Some light is thrown upon this question by the cases in this
and in other courts.
E.-yart RusseZZ, 13 Wall. 664, 668, was an action in the
Court of Claims to recover compensation for the seizure and
use by the United States military authorities of certain steamers
belonging to the claimant. The case involved the construction
and effect of the second section of the act of June 25, .1868,
1

That case was based upon sections 4688, 4690, 4691 and 4692, Gantt's Digest (1874), which are the same as the above sections in Mansfield's Digest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion -of the Court.

which provided that the Court of Claims, "at any time while
any suit or claim is pending before or on appeal from said court,
or within two years next after the final disposition of any suit
or claim, may,on motion on behalf of the United States, grant
a new trial in any such suit or claim, and stay the payment of
any judgment therein, uponsuch evidence (although the same
may be cumulative or other) as shall reasonably satisfy said
court that any fraud, wrong or injustice in the premises has
been done to the United States; but until an order is made
staying the payment of a judgment, the same shall. be payable
and paid as now provided by law." In the Court of Claims
an application for a new trial was made by the United States
when the case was pending in this court. The former court
dismissed the application for want of jurisdiction, on the ground;
in part, thatafter it was made the mandate of this court affirming the original judgment against the United States was filed
in the Court of Claims. From that order an appeal was allowed to this court, and one of the questions presented was
whether the Court of Claims should have dismissed the application for a new trial for want of jurisdiction. This court observed that the Court of Claims erred in dismissing the application, and after referring to the causes which probably
induced the passage of the act of June 25, 1868, said: "But
whatever reasons Congress may have had for passing the act,
of its right to pass it there is no question. The erection of the
Court of Claims itself, and the giving to parties the privilege
of suing the Government therein, though dictated by a sense of
justice and good faith, was purely voluntary on the part of
Congress; and it has the right to impose such conditions and
regulations in reference to the proceedings in that court as it
sees fit. The section in question was undoubtedly intended to
give the Government an advantage, which, in respect to its
form, is quite unusual, if not unprecedented, but which Congress undoubtedly saw sufficient reason to confer. It authorizes
the Court of Claims, on behalf of the United States, at any time
while a suit is pending before, or on appeal from, said court,
or within two years next after the final disposition of such suit,
to grant a new trial upon such evidence as shall satisfy the

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

court that the Government has been defrauded or wronged.
It has been objected that the granting of a new
trial after a decision by this court is, in effect, an appeal from
the decision of this court. This would be so if it were granted
upon the same case presented to us. But it is not. A new
case must be made; a case involving fraud or other wrong
practised upon the Government. It is analogous to the case of
a bill of review in chancery to set aside a former decree, or a
bill impeaching a decree for fraud. We are of opinion, therefore, that the Court of Claims had jurisdiction to gralht a new
trial, notwithstanding the filing of the mandate of this court."
Chief Justice Chase and Mr. Justice Clifford dissented from
the opinion because, in their judgment, "the act of Congress
did not warrant the granting of a new trial on a .petition filed
subsequent to an appeal and the return of the mandate of this
court."

In .Exparte United ,States, 16. Wall. 699, 703, the

above case was again before this court, and a peremptory mandamus was awarded requiring the Court of Claims to hear and
determine the application for a new trial.
In United States v. Young, 94: U. S. 258, 260, it appeared
that a new trial was granted by the Court of Claims, in a' suit
at law, while an appeal was pending here from the original
judgment. This court said: "The Court of Claims, by granting a new trial, has resumed control of the cause and the parties. This it had the right to do. Such a power may be somewhat anomalous, but it. is expressly given, and every person
when he submits himself to the jurisdiction of that court for the
prosecution of his claim submits himself to its operation. The
proceedings under which the new trial was obtained are now a
part of the record below, and, after judgment is finally rendered,
may be brought here by appeal for review."
In Belkrnap v. United States, 150 U. S. 588, 590, 591, the
court observed that while ordinarily the Court of Claims would
be without power to grant a new trial at a term subsequent to
that at which the original judgment was rendered, it had such
power under section 1088 of the Revised Statutes-which is
the same in substance as the second section of the above act of
June 25, 1868. The court said: "In order to give ful effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to this statute the Court of Claims must have power to grant a
new trial at a term subsequent to that at which the judgment
was rendered, for it explicitly provides that it may be exercised
at any time within two years."
In Iowa there is a statute giving the court power to grant a
new trial on grounds discovered after a verdict or decision is rendered-the petition for the new trial to be filed not later than
one year after 'final judgment, and the case made by it tried as
other cases. In Cook v. Smith, 58 Iowa, 607, 608, the Supreme
Court of that State said: "The right to apply for, and the
power of the court to entertain, jurisdiction of the application
during the time limited in the statute are absolute and unconditional. There is no such inconsistency between the two proceedings as to require the one to be abated because the other is
pending. It may be both should not be actively prosecuted at
the same time for the determination of one, may render a decision
in the other unnecessary. Upon application this would no doubt
be controlled by the courts. Suppose .the ground upon which
a new trial was asked was not discovered until after the appeal
was taken, on the last day allowed therefor, would such appeal
deprive the court of the power to entertain jurisdiction of a
petition for a new trial? Clearly not, we think, for during the
time limited in the statute the power of the court and the right
of the party are unconditional. There are cases where neither
party is satisfied with the judgment below. Would an appeal
by one party oust the court of the power to entertain and grant
a new trial on the application of the other party? We think
not."
In a case arising under a statute similar to the one in Arkansas, the Supreme Court of California said: "The appeal from
the judgment did not divest the trial court of jurisdiction to hear*
and determine the motion for a new trial." - _Yaglee v. Svencer,
60 California, 10. In Rayner v. Jones,90 California, 78, 81, the
same court said: "A notice of motion for a new trial wasserved
and filed in due season, and upon the hearing of the motion the
trial court dismissed it, upon the theory, evidently, that as the
judgment made and entered bad been appealed from when the
motion for a new trial came on for hearing, the court below

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

had lost jurisdiction to determine it. This view of the matter
is untenable, and the court should have heard .the motion, and
either granted or denied it, upon the bill of exceptions presented,
which is a part of the record here on the appeal from the order
of dismissal." See also Oarpentierv. Williamson, 25 California,
154,167; HcDonaldv. .c~oneey, 57 California, 325; Chase v.
Evoy, 58 California, 348; Scott v. Scott's Bx'r, 82 Kentucky,
328; 1D)yjtt v. Crozier, 30 Kansas, 150; Hines v. Driver, 89
Indiana, 339; Railroad Co. v. O'.Donnell, 24 Nebraska, 753.
The same principles have been recognized in criminal cases. In
tate ex rel. Turnerv. Circuit Courtfor Ozaukee Cou.nty, 71 Wisconsin, 595, which was a criminal case, an application was made
for a new trial after the affirmance of the original judgment.
In that State it was provided by statute that "the Circuit Court
may at the term in which the trial of any indictment or information shall be had, or within one year thereafter, and in either
case before or after judgment, on the petition or motion in
writing of the defendant, grant a new trial for any cause for
which, by law, a new trial may be granted, or when it shall
appear to the court that justice has not been done, and on such
terms as the court may direct." The Supreme Court of Wisconsin said: "It appears that a proper motion was made within
one year from the judgment, upon the grounds addressed to the
discretion of the Circuit Court, and a new-trial was undoubtedly
granted under the special authority conferred by the above
statute; and the question now is, Had the court power, to grant
it I We can only consider the question of the power or jurisdiction of the court in the matter, not whether it exercised that
power wisely or granted the motion on insufficient grounds, for
the court may have erred, but error does not affect its jurisdiction. This statute was probably borrowed from Massachusetts.
See Pub. Stat. Mass. 1882, c. 114, § 128 ; Com't v. Peck, 1 Met.
428; Com.'th v. .3kElhaney, 111 Mass. 439; com'ta v. Scot,
123 Mass. 418. Also Terr. Stat. Wis. 1839, p. 377, § 6; Rev.
Stat. 1849, c. 149, § 6 ; Rev. Stat. 1858, c. 180, § 6. We do not
well see upon what grounds the power of the court to grant the
new trial can be denied if the provision is yalid. The fact that
the judgment has been affirmed by this court furnishes no suffi

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

'cient reason for denying that power. It is said by the affirmance of the judgment it became a finality, a final determination
of-the cause and sentence of the law. That view would certainly be correct had not the legislature conferred this special
authority to grant a new trial upon a proper cause shown. On
affirmance of a judgment in a civil case no new trial could be
granted. unless the statute authorized it. Only where the statute does authorizeit can a new trial after affirmance be granted,
either in a civil or criminal cause. In actions of ejectment the
Circuit Court can grant a new trial even after affirmance by
this court, and this by virtue of a statute upon the subject.
aseltinev. Simpwon, 61 Wisconsin, 421. Consequently we can
perceive no sufficient grounds or reasons for denying the validity of the statute to grant a new trial after judgment has been
affirmed in this court, any more in a criminal than in a civil
cause."
In CommonweaZth v. Yfelf haney, 111 Mass. 439, 441, 443,
which was an indictment for murder, -an applicati6n was made
by petition for a new trial on the ground of-'newly disbovered
evidence. The question was raised by the Commonwealth
whether the application could be entertained after the accused
had been sentenced to death and the executive warrant for execution thereof issued. The question depended upon section I,
of the General Statutes of Massachusetts, c. 173, providing that
"the Supreme Judicial Court and Superior Court may, at the
term in which the trial of any indictment is' had, or within one
year thereafter, on the petition or motion in writing of the defendant, grant a new trial for any cause for which by law a
new trial may be granted, or when it appears to the court that
-justice has not been done, and on such terms or conditions as
the court shall direct." The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts said: "At the time of the passage of the General Statutes, therefore, this court had no original criminal jurisdiction,
except of capital cases; and in these cases sentence has always
been passed within a very short time after the trial and conviction, and a copy of the record of the conviction and sentence
forthwith transmitted to the Governor, in accordance with the
Revised Statutes, c. 139, § 11, and the General Statutes, c. 174,

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 24; and yet the General Statutes, c. 173, § 7,-in terms authorize a petition for a new trial to be presented to this court
at any time within one year after the trial. The unavoidable
conclusion isthat so long as that year has not elapsed, and the
sentence has not been carried into execution, the court is authorized to entertain a petition for a new trial."
In no one of the above cases, nor indeed in any case to which
our attention has been called, was there any suggestion of the
want of power in the legislature to authorize the granting of a
new trial in an action at law upon evidence discovdred after
the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered. So
far as the power of Congress is concerned, we cannot conceive
that legislation of that character in respect of cases at law, as
distinguished from cases in eqdity, infringes upon any right secured by the Constitution of the United States.
In the case n 6 w before us it appears that the operation of
the original judgment was suspended by a supersedeas. But
the statute, reasonably construed, does not declare that the
right to apply for a new trial upon newly discovered evidence
after the term shall be any the less when the original judgment
is superseded. Nor does it declare that a new trial of an action
at law shall not be applied for or granted while the case is
pending in the appellate court. It is true that, in the absence
of legislation to the contrary, neither the filing of a petition
for new trial nor the granting of a new trial by the court of
original jurisdiction, after the term and upon newly discovered
evidence, interferes with the power of the appellate court to
proceed with the hearing and determination of the case upon
the record before it. But the operation and effect of its final
judgment may be ultimately controlled by the disposition made
by the court of original jurisdiction of an application for a new
, regarded
trial made in conformity with a statute. If this b'
as an anomalous rule of procedure in actions at law, it is sufficient to say that Congress, in its wisd6m and in order to promote the ends of justice, saw proper to prescribe it, and we
know of no reason to question the authority it has exercised
upon this subject. All embarrassment in the present case was
avoided by the fact that the new trial of which petitioner com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

plains was not granted while the original case was in this court
nor until after our mandate had been filed in the court of original jurisdiction.
Our conclusions are: 1. That the statute of Arkansas in question, which was made by Congress the law of the Indian Territory, is to be held applicable only to actions and proceedings
at law in the courts of that 'territory, as distinguished from
suits or proceedings in equity; 2. That an application under
that statute, within the time prescribed, for a new trial in an
action at law, upon grounds discovered after the term at which
the verdict or decision was rendered, was a matter of right,
and did not require the leave of any court-the application
constituting, on appeal, a new action, in which summons or
process would regularly issue against the adverse party, and
which must be heard and determined by the court upon evidence adduced by the parties.
It results that the court qf originaljurisdictionacted within
the authority conferred upon it, aihd the rule for a mandato set aside the order grantinga new trial
mus compelling it.
mutbe discharged, and it is so ordered.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MOULTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
. No. 224. Argued April 9,10, 1901.-I)ecided May

2Z, 1901.

Park street is a public highway in the northwest section. of the city of

Washington. For some days before the accident which was the ground
of this action, a steam roller had been useddin connection with the work
of resurfacing the street with macadam. This roller became disabled,
and was placed close to the south curb of the street, a canvas cover was
placed over it, and it was left there for two days. On the second day the
horse of the plaintiff in error, being driven along the street, became restive from tile flapping of the canvas cover, reared, and upset the vehicle,
and threw out the plaihitiff, injuring him. Held that the District of Columbia was not liable for the injuries which the plaintiff so suffered.

