OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

judgment in that court was affirmed in the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Lan"zry v. rallace, 97 Fed. Rep 865.
For the reasons stated in the opinion just- rendered in Lantry'8 case, the judgment in this case is
.4ffirmed.

COM

ERCIAL BANK v. CHAMBERS.

ERROR TO THE SUPREE

COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAI.

No. 270. Argued and submitted April 26, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
As the constitution of Utah distinguished between stock and credits in
determining the amount of property of a national bank subject to taxation, shares of stock were not credits, and resident and non-resident shareholders were not entitled to deduct bonafide indebtedness from their
shares of stock.
The assessed value of real estate owned by a bank in other States than that
in which the bank is located, is not to be deducted in determining the
amount of assessable property of the bank, unless authorized by the laws
of the State in which the bank is situated.

THE plaintiff in error is a national banking association, doing
business at Ogden City, Weber County, Utah. The action below was brought by the "bank to enjoin the collection of the
alleged illegal portion of certain taxes levied against its shareholders for the year 1898.
Certain provisions of the constitution and laws of Utah which
are claimed to be pertinent to the controversy are excerpted in
the margin. 1
'Provisions of the constitution of Utah relied on by plaintiff in error
(Rev. Stat. Utah, 1898, p. 61):
" ARTICLE XIII, SEc. 2.
[WHAT PROPERTY TAXABLE. DEFINITIONS.
REVE UE.]-All property in the State, not exempt under the laws of the
United States, or under this constitution, shall be taxed in proportion to
its value, to be ascertained as provided by law. The word property, as
used in this article, is hereby declared to include moneys, credits, bonds,
stocks, franchises and all matters and things (real, personal and mixed) cap-

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CHAMBERS.
Statement of the Case.

The substance of the complaint was that although the assessor in valuing the shares of stock of the bank deducted the
able of private ownership; but this shall not be so construed as to authorize the taxation of the stocks of any company or corporation, when the
property of such company or corporation represented-by such stock, has
been taxed. .
.
"SEc. S. [LEGISLATURE TO PROVIDE UNIFORM TAX. EXEMPTIONS.]The legislature shall provide by law a uniform and equal rate of assessment
and taxation on all property in the State, according to its value in money,
and sball prescribe by general law such regulations as shall secure a just
valuation for taxation of all property; so that every person and corporation
shall pay a tax in proportion to the value of his, her or its property: Pro".
vided, That a deduction of debts from credits may be authorized ....
Provisions of the Revised Statutes of Utah relied on.by plaintiff in error
(Rev. Stat. Utah, 1898, pp. 579, 581):
"2506. All taxable property must be assessed at its full cash value.

"2507.

BANK STOCK.

VERIFIED STATEMENT.-

The stockholders in

every bank or banking association organized under the authority of this
State or of the United States must be assessed and taxed on the value of
their shares of stock therein in the county, town, city or district where
such bank or banking association is located, and not elsewhere, whether
such stockholders reside in such place or not. To aid the -assessor in determining the value of such shares of stock, the cashier or other.accounting
officer of every such bank must furnish a verified statement to the assessor,
showing the amount and number of shares of the capital stock of each
bank, the amount of its surplus or reserve fund or undivided profits,
amount of investments in real estate, which real estate must be assessed
to said bank and taxed as other real estate, and the names and places of
residence of its stockholders, together with the number of shares held by
each.
"12508, ID. DEDucTIoN.-In the assessment of the shares of stockmentioned in the next preceding section each stockholder must be allowed all
the deductions and exemptions allbwed by law in assessing the value of
other taxable personal property owned by individual citizens of this State,
and the assessment and taxation'must not be at a greater rate than is made
or assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
of this State.
"2509, ID.-In making such assessmentthere must also be deductedfrom
the value of such shares such sum as is in the same proportion to such value
as the assessed value of the real estate of such bank or banking association
in which such shares are held bears to the whole amount of the capitalstock,
surplus, reserve and undivided profits of such bank or banking association.

"12518. WHAT

DEBTS DEDUCTIBLE FROM CREDITS.-In

making up the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

proportionate amount of the assessed value of the real estate
of complainant situated in the State of Utah, he neglected and
refused to deduct the value of real estate owned by the bank
situated without such State, and also refused to allow to certain non-resident stockholders deductions from the valuations of
their shares of stock to the amount of their bona fide debts,
though allowing deductions of that kind in favor of resident
shareholders. Having tendered to the defendant what it claimed
to be the lawful amount of the tax due from it, the bank brought
this action to enjoin any attempt to collect the full amount of
the tax as laid, and to compel acceptance of the sum which had
been tendered. The trial court decided in favor of the bank.
On appeal, however, the Supreme Court of the State held that
the bank was not entitled to the relief prayed, and reversed the
judgment in its favor with costs. Error was prosecuted to the
judgment of reversal, and the cause is now in this court for review. 61 Pao. Rep. 560.
amount of credits which any person is required to list he will be entitled
to deduct from the gross amount of such credits the amount of all bona
fide debts owing by him, but no acknowledgment of indebtedness not
founded on actual consideration, and no such acknowledgment made for
the purpose of being so deducted, must be considered a debt within the
intent of this section; and no person is entitled to a deduction on account
of an obligation of any kind given to an insurance company for the premium of insurance, nor on account of any unpaid subscription to any institution or society, nor on account of a subscription to or instalment
payable on, the capital stock of any company or corporation; and no liability of any person or persons, company or corporation, as surety for another must be deducted; and no other liability of any person or persons,
company or corporation, on any bond or undertaking must be deducted;
and no deduction must be made in any case unless the party claiming such
deduction discloses to the assessor, under oath, the name or names of the
persons to whom such party is indebted, and the amount of such indebtedness to each, and also that such indebtedness is not barred by the statute
of limitations, or, in case such indebtedness is so barred, acknowledges such
indebtedness in writing, duly subscribed. No debt is to be deducted unless
the statement shows the amount of such debt, as stated under oath in the
aggregate. Whenever one member of a firm or one of the proper- officers
of a corporation has made a statement showing the property of the firm or
corporation, another member of the firm or another officer need not include
such property in the statement made by him; but this statement mustshow

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CHAMBERS.
Opinion of the Court.

.'. Abbot 1?. Heywood for plaintiff in error submitted on
his brief.
Yr. James I. Zimbaa for defendant in error.
HaZver8on, was on his brief:

.A&. George

:-M. JUSTiCE. WHIT, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is urged that "by the action of the taxing officer and the
Supreme Court of Utah the shareholders of the Commercial
National Bank of Ogden were treated contrary to the provisions of section 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States; and, further, that they were denied the equal protection of the laws." Subsidiarily, it is contended first, that the
assessor erroneously refused to dediict the boia de debts of
non-resident shareholders from the value of their shares of stock,
contrary to the provisions of the laws of Utah and the requirements of said section 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (excerpted in the margin'), and, second, that the
bank was entitled to a deduction from the assessed valuation
of the stock, not only of the value of its real estate situated in
the name of the person or officer who made the statement in which such
property is included. The fact that such statement is not required, or that
a berson has not made such statement under oath, or otherwise, does not
relieve the property from taxation."
1Section 5219, Revised Statutes of the United States:
"SEc. 5219. Nothing herein shall prevent all the shares in any association from being included in the valuation of the personal property of the
owner or holder of such shares, in atsessing taxes imposed by authority of
the State within which the association is located; but the legislature of
each State may determine and direct the manner and place of taxing all
the shares of national banking associations located within the State, subject only to the two restrictions, that the taxation shall not be at a greater
rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual
citizens of'such State, and that the shares of any national banking association owned by non-residents of any State shall be taxed in the city or town
where the bank is located, and not elsewhere. Nothing herein shall be
construed to exempt the real property of associations from either state,
county or municipal taxes, to the same extent, according to its value, as
other real property is taxed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Utah, but the value of real estate situated outside of the limits
of the State.
We will first consider the contention respecting the failure
to deduct bona fide debts from the value of the stock of nonresident shareholders. The Supreme Court of Utah, referring
to the provisions of the constitution of Utah, noted in the margin,
of the statement of facts preceding this opinion, held that as the
constitution of the State distinguished between stock and credits
and authorized only a deduction of debts from credits, shares
of stock were not credits, and both- resident and non-resident
shareholders were not entitled to deduct bona fUe indebtedness
from the value of their shares of stock. This construction of
the statute is binding on this court. -FirstNational Bank of
Gaxmett v. Ayers, 160 U. S. 660, 664; First National Bank
of Aberdeen v. Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440,444. The claim
of the benefit of the provisions of sedtion 5219 of the Revised
Statutes of the Unitea States is unavailing, for the reason that
there was neither averment nor proof of facts taking the case
out of the operation of recent decisions of this court. Those
decisions held that the term "moneyed capital," as employed
in section 5219 of the Revised Statutes, forbidding greater taxation of shareholders of national banks than is imposed on other
moneyed capital, does not include capital which does not come
into competition with the business of national banks, and that
it must be satisfactorily made to appear by the proof that
the moneyed capital claimed to be given an unjust advantage
is of the character just stated. FirstNational Bank of Wellvngton v. Chapman, 113 U. S. 205, 219, and cases cited.
There is obviously no merit in the further contention that reversible error was committed because of the refusal to deduct
from the value of the shares of stock of the bank the assessed
value of real estate owned by the bank, situated in other States
than Utah. There was no proof that such a deduction was authorized by the laws of Utah in valuing shares of stock of other
than national banking associations. On the contrary, the Supreme Court of Utah, from an examination of the several constitutional and statutory provisions respecting the subject of taxation in Utah, concluded that the only deductions which were

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CHAMBERS.
Opinion of the Court.

authorized in the assessment of the shares of stock of national
banks or other corporations organized and doing business in the
State, were deductions from the value of the shares of the value
of real estate situate in Utah. Manifestly, the purpose was to
prevent double taxation by the State, a tax on the real estate*as
such and a further tax thereon by a tax on the stock to the extent that such real estate entered into the value of the stock.
As the national banking law, however, permits the taxation of
shares of stock of a national bank in the State where the bank
is domiciled, the State of domicil is of course entitled to collect
taxes upon the full value of such shares of stock. While real
estate of a bank situated outside of the State of domicil is taxed
in the State of its situs, yet the'value of such real estate necessarily enters into and is considered in estimating the value of
the shares of stock, and to deduct the value of the real estate
would, to the extent of such deduction, reduce the real value of
the shares, without a compensatory equivalent. These views
and those exprdssed by the Supreme Court of Utah accord with
the doctrine.enunciated in .Dwightv. Boston, 12 Allen, 316, 332,
and American Coal Co. v. County Commissioners, 59 Maryland,.
185, i93. In the latter case the principle was thus expressed
(p. 194):
"The true criterion, as fixed by the statute, is the true value
of the stock, without reference to the question where, or in what
manner or nature of property or security, the capital stock may
be invested. Whether that be invested in real estate, or other
property beyond the jurisdictioh of this State, the latter having
dontrol over the shares and their true value, the peculiar nature
and value of the investment of the capital stock of the corporation, beyond the limits of the State, can form no proper subject for specific deduction or abatement from the true value of
the shares of stock, .when presented to be assessed for purposes
of taxation. It is exclusively with the shares of stock, and their
true value, as representing the entire corporate assets, that the
tax commissioner has to deal, and not with the nature and locality of the investment of the capital stock of the corporation,
except as to the real estate of the company situate within this
State."
VOL.

OLXXXII-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

As the shares of stock were taxed as other similar property
in Utah and no discrimination was occasioned, we can perceive
no ground for concluding that the refusal to deduct the value of
the real estate in question constituted either a violation of section 5219, Revised Statutes, or a denial of the equal protection
of the laws.
Judgment aijrmed.

FULLER v. UNITED STATES.
ORiGIAL APPLIcATIoN FOR mANDA.mUS.
No. 7. Argued and submltted April 15, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
The court below, of original jurisdiction in this case, had authority, upon
newly discovered evidence, to grant to the railway company a new trial,
after the final decision of this case at law in that court.
It was competent for Congress to confer upon such court, established under
the an hority of the United States, the power to grant a new trial in an
action at law upon grounds discovered after the expiration of the term at
which the verdict or decision was rendered.
The statute does not declare that the right to apply for a new trial upon
newly discovered evidence after the term shall be any the less when the
original term is superseded; nor that anew trial of anaction at law shall
not be applied for or granted, while the case is pending in the appellate
court.
The statute of Arkansas in question is applicable only to actions and proceedings at law in the courts of that Territory, as distinguished from
suits or proceedings in equity; and as application under that statute,
within the time prescribed, for a new trial in an action at law, upon
grounds discovered after the term at which the verdict or decision was
rendered, was a matter of right, which did not require leave of any
court.

Tins was a motion for leave to file a petition of mandamus,
and a petition therefor.
Mr. Richard B. Shepard,.21. Harrio 0. Shepard and Mr.
Wiliam T. Hutching8, for petitioner, submitted on their brief.

