CALHOUN GOLD M. CO. v. AJAX GOLD X. CO. 499
Opinion of the Court

CALHOUN GOLD MTNING COM-PANTY v. AJAX GOLD
MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No.195. Argued March 13,14, 1901.-Decided May 27,1901.
The rights conferred upon the locators of mining locations by Rev. Stat.
§ 2322, are not subject to the right of way expressed in § 2323, and are not
limited by § 2336.
As to § 2336, by giving to the oldest or prior location, where veins unite,
all ore or mineral within the space of intersection, 'and the vein below
the point of union, the prior location -takes no more, notwithstanding
that § 2322 gives to such prior location the exclusive right of possession
and enjoyment of all the surface included within the limits of the location,
and of all veins, lodes and ledges throughout their entire depth, the top
or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines extended downward,
vertically. Held that § 2336 does not conflict with § 2332, but supplements it. *
A locator is not confined to the vein upon which he based his location, and
upon which the discovery was made.
A patent is not simply a grant for the vein, buta location gives to the locator something more than the right to the vein which is the subject of
the location.
Patents are proof of the discovery. They relate back to the location of
the claims, and cannot be collaterally attacked.

TaE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. W. E. So BeZle for plaintiff in error.
_.Mr. JdoepA C. Helm for defendant in error. Xr'. FAne
Cohurn and Xrf. ChwWe . -Dudey were on his brief.

A.

ME. JusTICE MoKEmNrA delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in one of the District Courts of the
State of Colorado by the defendant in error to recover damages
from plaintiff in error for certain trespasses on, and to restrain
it from removing ore from ground claimed to be within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

boundaries of, the mining claims of defendant in error. The
answer of plaintiff in error justified the trespasses and asserted a right to the ore by reason of the ownership of another mining claim and the ownership of a certain tunnel site.
The rights of the parties are based on and their determination hence involves the construction of the following sections
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, empowering the
location of mining claims:
"SEc. 2322. The locators of all mining locations heretofore
made or which shall hereafter be made, on any mineral vein,
lode, or ledge, situated on the public domain, their heirs and
assigns, where no adverse claim exists on the tenth of May,
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, so long as they comply
with the laws of the United States, and with state, territorial
and local regulations not in conflict with the laws of the United States governing their possessory title, shall have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the surface
included within the lines of their locations, and of all veins,
lodes and ledges throughout their entire depth, the top or apex
of which lies inside of such surface lines extended downward
vertically, although such veins, lodes, or ledges may so far depart from a perpendicular in their course downward as to extend
outside the vertical side lines of such surface locations. But their
right of possession to such outside parts of such veins or ledges
shall be confined to such portions thereof as lie between vertical
planes drawn downward as above described, through the end
lines of their locations, so continued in their own direction that
such planes will intersect such exterior parts of such veins or
ledges. And nothing in this section shall authorize the locator
or possessor of a vein or lode which extends in its downward
course beyond the vertical lines of his claim to enter upon the
surface of a claim owned or possessed by another.
"SEc. 2323. Where a tunnel is run for the development of a

vein or lode, or for the discovery of mines, the owners of such
tunnel shall have the right of possession of all veins or lodes
within three thousand feet from the face of such tunnel on the
lines thereof, not previously known to exist, d:iscovered in such
tunnel, to the same extent as if discovered from the surface;

CALHOUN GOLD K. CO. v. AJAX GOLD. M. CO. 501
Opinion of the Court.

and location on the line of such tunnel of veins or lodes not
appearing on the surface, made by other parties after the commencement of the tunnel, and while the same is being, prosecuted with reasonable diligence, shall be invalid; but failure
to prosecute the work on the thnnel for six months shall be
considered as an abandonment of the right to all undiscovered
veins on the line of such tunnel."
"SEc. 2336. Where two or more veins intersect or cross each
other, priority of title shall govern, and such prior location
shall be entitled to all ore or mineral contained within the space
of intersection; but the subsequent location shall have the right
of way through the space of intersection for the purposes of
the convenient working of the mine. And where two or more
veins unite, the oldest or prior location shall take the vein below the point of union, including all the space of intersection."
The especial controversy is whether the rights conferred by
section 2322 are subject to the right of way expressed in section 2323 and limited by section 2336. Or, in other words, as
to the latter section, whether by giving to the oldest or prior
location, where veins unite, "1all ore or mineral contained within
the space of intersection," and "the vein below the point of
union," the prior location takes no more, notwithstanding that
section 2322 gives to such prior location "the exclusive right
of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within'
the lines" of the location, "and of all veins, lodes and ledges
throughout their entire depth, the top or apex of which lies
inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically."
The defendant in error denied such effect to sections 2323
and 2336, and brought this suit, as we have said, against plaintiff in error for damages and to restrain plaintiff in error from
removing ore claimed to be within the boundaries of the claims
of defendant in error, to which ore defendant in error claimed
to be entitled by virtue of section 2322. The judgment of the
lower court sustained the claim of the defendant in error and
damages were awarded it, and the plaintiff in error was enjoined
from further prosecuting work. An appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of the State and the judgment was affirmed.
Thereupon this writ of error was allowed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The annexed plat exhibits the relative location of the respective properties of the parties. The Champion location was
dropped from the case. There is no controversy as to the
validity of the respective locations, none as to the tunnel site or
of the steps necessary to preserve it. Indeed, the facts are all
stipulated, and that the respective locations are evidenced by
patents, the defendant in error being the owner of the Monarch
and the Mammoth Pearl, and the plaintiff in error the owner
of the Victor Consolidated and the tunnel site. The facts are
.stated by the Supreme Court of the State as follows:

"That each of appellee's claims was located prior to either
the lode claim or tunnel site of appellant; that the receiver's
receipt on each of the claims of appellee issued prior to the

CALHOUN GOLD U.

CO. -e. AJAX GOLD M. CO. 503

Opinion of the Court.

location of the tunnel site and prior to the issuance of receiver's
receipt on the Victor Consolidated; that the patents upon the
lode claims of appellee issued prior to the patent on the lode
claim of appellant; that the patent to the apex issued prior to
the location of the tunnel site and on the Mammoth Pearl and
Monarch subsequent to such location; that the vein of the Victor Consolidated was discovered and located from the surface,
was not known to exist prior to such discovery, extends throughout the entire length of that claim, and on its strike crosses
each of the veins of the claims of appellee upon which they
were respectively discovered and located; -that the tunnel cuts
numerous blind veins underneath the surface of the claims of
appellee, which do not appear upon the surface and were not
known to exist prior to the location of the tunnel; that the
vein of the Victor Consolidated was cut in this tunnel underneath the claims of appellee and ore of the value of four
hundred dollars removed therefrom. It also appears that the
patents upon the lode claims of appellee embrace the conflict
with the Victor Consolidated without any reservation as to
either surface or veins, and in this respect conform to the receiver's receipts upon such claims; that the patent on the Victor
Consolidated excludes the surface in con-flict with. the claims of
appellee and all veins having their apex within such -conflict,
which are the same exceptions contained in the receiver's receipt for that claim; that the portal to the Ithaca tunnel site
was at the date of its location on public domain; that work
thereon was prosecuted diligently, and that the location of such
tunnel was in all respects regular; that all necessary steps were
taken by appellant to locate the blind veins cut in such tunnel,
which are in controversy in this case; that the record titles of
the claims of appellee are vested in it, and the record titles of
the Victor Consolidated, the Ithaca tunnel site, the blind veins
discovered therein underneath the claims of appellee, are vested
in the appellant. The record discloses that appellant offered
testimony tending to prove that at the date of the location of
its tunnel site mineral in place had not been discovered on the
Monarch and Mammoth Pearl lode.claims."
The assignments of error present the following propositions

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

which it is stipulated the case involves and to which the decision may be directed:
"First. Whether or not the Ithaca tunnel (the tunnel claimed
by plaintiff in error) is entitled to a right of way through defendant in error's lode claims.
"Second. Whether or not plaintiff in error has acquired by
virtue of said tunnel site location the~ownership and right to
the possession of the blind veins cut therein, to wit, veins or
lodes not appearing on the surface and not known to exist prior
to the date of location of said tunnl site.
"Third. Whether or not plaintiff in error is the owner and
entitled to the ore contained in the vein of its Victor Consolidated claim, within the surface boundaries and across lode
claims of defendant in error.
"Fourth. Whether or not plaintiff in error should have been
allowed to introduce evidence for the purpose of showing that
there was no discovery of mineral in place on the Monarch
and Mammoth Pearl claims of defendant in error prior to the
location of said tunnel site."
The third proposition involves the relation of sections 2322
and 2336. It is first discussed by plaintiff in error, and is given
the most prominence in the argument. and we, therefore, give it
precedence in the order of discussion. It presents for the first
time idi this court the rights of a junior location of a cross vein
within the side lines of a senior location under section 2336.
Prior to the decision by the Supreme Court of Colorado in the
case at bar that court had decided that the junior location was
" entitled. to all of the ore found on his vein within the side
lines of the senior location, except at the space of intersection of
the two veins." Branagan v. .Dulaney, (1885) 8 Col. 408;
.X.
Zee v. Stahl, (1886) 9 Col. 208; .Iorgensonr v. .iddles e f
Co., (1887) 11 Col. 176; Lee v. ,Stal, 13 CoL 174. In Coffee. v.
.Emigk, (1890) 15 Col. 181, it was held that the'rule laid down
in the foregoing cases had become established law. The claims
of the plaintiff in error were located after the decisions, and it
is contended that the rule laid down by them became a rule of
property in the State, and it is earnestly urged that to reverse
the rule now would -take from plaintiff in error that which it

CALHOUN OOLD M. CO. v. AJAX GOLD X. CO.

505

Opinion of the Court.

"had reason to believe was a vested right in the Victor Consolidated vein."
There are serious objections to accepting that consequence as
determinative of our judgment. We might by doing so confirm titles in Colorado but we might disturb them elsewhere.
The statute construed is a Federal one, being a law not only for
Colorado but for all of the mining States, and, therefore, a rule
for.all, not a rule for one, must be declared. Besides what consideration should have been given to prior cases, the Supreme
Court of the State was better able to judge than wb are. It
may be that the repose of titles in the State. was best effected
by the reversal of the prior cases. At any rate, a Fedeal statute has more than a local application, and until construed by
this court cannot be said to have an established meaning. The
necessity of this -is illustrated, if it need illustration, from the
different view taken of sections 2322 and 2336 in California,
Arizona and Montana, from that taken in the prior Colorado
cases. The Supreme Courts respectively of those States and
that Territory have adjudged a superiority of right to the cross
veins to be in the senior location. Manifestly, on account of
this difference if for no other, this court must interpret*the
sections independently of local considerations. And in doing
so we do not find in the sections much ambiguity so far as the
issue raised by the record is concerned; indeed, not even much
necessity for explanation. Section 2336 does not conflict with
section 2322, but supplements it. Section 2336 imposes a servitude upon the senior location, but does not otherwise affect the
exclusive rights given the senior location. It gives a right of
way to the junior location. To what extent, however, there
may be some ambiguity; .whether only through the space of
the intersection of the veins, as held by the Supreme Courts of
California, Arizona and Montana, or through the space of intersection of the claims, as held by the Supreme Court of Colorado
in the case at bar. It is not necessary to determine between
these views. One of them is certainly correct, and therefore
the contention of the plaintiff in error is not correct, and more
than that it is not necessary to decide on this record. A com.
plete interpretation of the sections would, of course, determine

OCTOBER TERIM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

between those views, but on that determination other rights
than those submitted for judgment may be passed upon, and
we prefer therefore to reserve our opinion.
There was some contrariety of views in the cases on other
points. There was discussion as to whether veins cross on their
strike or their dip, and it was held that they could cross
on both strike and dip, but as to the exact application of section 2336 to either there was some disagreement.
The Supreme Court of Arizona said: "Congress had in mind,
at the time of the enactment of the law of 1872, that, as mining rights then stood, A's lode might legally cross B's lode on
the strike, and whether on the dip or not, makes no difference;
and section 2336 was designed to define the rights of A and B
in the space of intersection." Watervale Xining Co. v. Leaec,
33 Pac. Rep. 418,424.
The Supreme Court of California held in Wilhelm v. Silvester,
101 California, 358, that the provisions of the section could readily be construed as intending to protect the rights of old ledge
locations. And speaking of veins intersecting on their dip,
said, "moreover, there is strong reason for thinking that such
an intersection was the very one in mind of Congress when it
passed section 2336; for in that section, and speaking of the
same subject, it says that ' where two or more veins unite, the
oldest or prior location shall take the vein below the point of
union,' and if the other kind of intersection (on the strike) was
in the minds of the legislators at that time ihey would not have
used the word 'below;' for 'beldw' would not apply at all to
a union on the strike ol two veins, such as the appellant's rights
depend on in the case at bar." But the Chief Justice of the
State, concurring in the result, observed:
"I think, however, that too much is conceded, both in the
opinion of the court and in the argument of counsel for respondent, in assuming that the provisions of § 2336 cannot be
applied to locatioils made since the passage of the mining law
of 1872 on veins which intersect upon .their strike, without
bringing it in conflict with the plain terms of § 2322. This
wholly unwarranted assumption has been the source of all the
trouble and difficulty which the land office and. some of the

CALHOUN GOLD M. CO. v. AJAX GOLD M. CO.

507

Opinion of the Court.

state courts have encountered in their attempts to construe
provisions of a statute which are in perfect harmony, but which
have been erroneously supposed to be inconsistent."
The Supreme Court of Colorado concurred in the conclusions
of the courts of Arizona and California, and expressed its own
view as follows:
"Our conclusion is that the provisions of § 2336 apply to locations made under the act of 1872, as well as before; p. 616, refer
to the intersection or crossing of veins either upon their strike
or dip; that the space of intersection in determining the ownership of ore within such space, means either intersection of veins
or conflicting claims, according to the facts in each particular
case, and grants a right of way to the junior claimant for the
convenient working of his mine through such space upon the
veins (underneath the surface) which he owns or controls outside of that space. This construction renders the two sections
entirely harmonious, gives effect to every clause and part of
each, and in so far as § 2336 regulates or in any manner provides for rights as between conflicting claims, it applies only to
intersections consistent with all the provisions of § 2322."
See for the views of the Supreme Court of Montana, Pardee
v. Xurray, 4 Montana, 234.
2. The other assignments of error relate to rights claimed by
plaintiff in error by the location of the tunnel site, and present
the questions whether such location gave to the plaintiff in
error the following rights: of way through the lode claims of
the defendant in error; of possession of the blind veins cut by
the tunnel underneath the claims of the defendant in error.
The plaintiff in error asserts the right of way for its tunnel
under section 2323 by implication, and from that implication,
and the rule it contends for as to cross veins, deduces its right
to all of the blind veins. The contention as to cross veins we
have answered, and the deduction as to blind veins is not justified. The section contemplates that tunnels may be run for the
development of veins or lodes, for the discovery of mines, gives
a right of possession of such veins or lodes, if not previously
known to exist, and makes locations on the surface after the
commencement of the tunnel invalid. There is no implication

OCTOBER TERME, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of a displacement of surface locations made before the commencement of the tunnel. Indeed, there is a necessary implication of their preservation. And there can be no implication of a
conflict with the rights given by section 2322. The exclusiveness of those rights we have declared. The tunnel can only be.
run in subordination to them. How else can section 2322 be
given effect? There are no exceptions to its language. The
locators "of any mineral veins, lode or ledge" are given not
only "an exclusive right of possession and enjoyment" of all
the surface included within the lines of their locations, but "of
all veins, lodes and ledges throughout their entire depth, the top
or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically.". A locator therefore is not confined to the
vein upon which he based his location and upon which the discovery was made. "All veins or lodes having their apices
within the planes of the surface lines extended downward.are
his, and possession of the surface is possession of all such veins
or lodes within the prescribed limitations." The Laws of Mines
and Mining, page 442, by Barringer & Adams.
Under the old law the miner "located the lode. Under the
new (the act of 1872) he must locate a piece of land containing
the top or apex of the lode. While the vein is still the principal thing, in that it is for the sake of the vein that the location
is made, the location must be of a piece of land including the
top or apex of the vein. If he make such a location, containing the top or apex of his discovered lode, he will be entitled
to all other lodes having their tops or apices within their surface boundaries." Lindsay on Mines, see. 71.
And this court said, speaking by Mr. Justice Brewer, in
Campbell v. ADlet, 167 U. S. 116:
"But the patent is not simply a grant of the vein, for, as
stated in the section, ' a patent for any land claimed and located
for valuable deposits may be obtained in the following manner.'
It must also be noticed that section 2322, in respect to locators,
gives them the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of
all the surface within the lines of their locations, and all veins,
lodes and ledges, the tops or apices of which are inside such
lines. So that a location gives to the locator something more

CALHOUN GOLD M. CO. v. AJAX GOLD M. CO

509

Opinion of the Court.

than the right to the vein which is the occasion of the location."
See also Del Xonte Xining & Milling Co. v. La~t Chance Xining & Milling Co., 171 U. S.55.
The only condition is that the veins shall apex within the
surface lines. It is not competent for us to add any other condition. Blind veins are not excepted, and we cannot except
them. They are included in the description, "all veins" and
belong to the surface location 3. The same reasoning disposes of the claim of plaintiff in
error to the ,ight of way for its tunnel through the ground of
defendant in error, so far as the right of way is based on the
statutes of the United States. So far as it is based on the statutes of Colorado it is disposed of by their interpretation by the
Supreme Court of Colorado, and, expressing it, the court said:
"It is contended by counsel for appellant that, under sec. 2338,
Rev. Stat. U. S. and sec. 3141, Mills' Ann. Stat. ; 59 Pac. Rep.
607, 617, it is entitled to such right. The first of these sections
provided that, in the absence of necessary legislation by Congress, the legislature of a State may provide rules for working
mines involving easements, drainage, and other necessary means
to their complete development, and that these conditions shall
be fully expressed in the patent. The section of Mills referred
to provides that a tunnel claim located in accordance with its
provisions shall have the right of way through lodes which
may lie in its course; but it will be observed that this section
only refers to tunnels located for the purpose of discovery, and
if any of its provisions are still in force, which appears to be
doubted in -Elletv. Campbell, 8uiara, they can have no application to the case at bar, because the section of the Revised Statutes only provides for easements for the development of mines,
and the section of Mills relied upon does iiot attempt to confer
any such rights, but is limited to the one purpose of discovery.
In this respect it has been clearly superseded by the act of Congress, so that, if appellant is entitled to the righl claifned, it
must attach by virtue of some provision of this act."
4. An assignment of error is based upon an offer of plaintiff
in error to prove, that at the time of the location of the Ithaca
tunnel site, no ore had been discovered in two of the patented

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

claims of the defendant in error, to wit, the Monarch and the
Mammoth Pearl. The ruling was right. The patents were
proof of the discovery and related back to the date of the locations of the claims. The patents could not be collaterally attacked. This has been decided so often that a citation of cases
is unnecessary.
Judgmen t ajined.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. TALTY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CI-AS.
No. 238. Argued April 12, 15, 1901.-Decided May 27,1901.

In this case this court holds, (1) that it was not error in the court below
to try the case on the amended petition; (2) that the report to the Government of a person employed by the Attorney General in this case was
properly rejected as evidence; (3) that therb was no error in the rulings
of the court below.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. Robert A. Howard for appellant.
ney General Pradewas on his brief.

.Mr.

X1r. A8i8tant Attor-

. B. Edwarda for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE MoKEx A

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Court of Claims under the act
of Congress approved June 16j1880, 21 Stat. 284, c. 243, entitled
"An act to provide for the settlement of all outstanding claims
against the District of Columbia, and conferring jurisdiction
on the Court of Claims to hear the same, and for other purposes."

The purpose of the action was to recover c.ompensation for
work done and materials furnished under certain contracts entered. into between the District of Columbia and appellee. The

