OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

findings. We have examined and considered them and are of
the opinion that there was no error in the rulings of the court,
and the judgment is
Aflirmed.

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 242. Argued April 16, 1901.-Decided May 27, 1901.
This was an action at law against the United States upon an alleged implied contracf to pay for the use of a patented invention belonging to the
plaintiffs in error, in rifles used by the Government -wbich had been purchased under contract from a Norwegian Company. It was conceded that
a contract must be established in order to entitle appellants to recover, as
the Court of Claims has no jurisdiction of demands against the United
States founded on torts. Held, that on the facts proved in this case no
such contract was proved against the United States, and that if the petitioners have suffered injury, it has been through the infringement of
their patent, and not by a breach of contract.

This was an action for $100,000, brought in the Court of
Claims by the appellants, upon an implied contract, asserted to
have arisen from the use by the United States of Krag-Jorgensen rifles, which rifles contained, it is claimed, certain features,
which were the invention of Russell, one of the appellants.
The United States demurred to the petition, and the demurrer
was sustained.
The facts as presented by the petition are as follows: That
on or about August 3, 1880, letters patent No. 230,823, for certain new and useful improvements in firearms, were granted to
Russell, and that he and Livermore are now the owners of such
invention.
That pursuant to an advertisement by a board of officers
convened under the act of Congress, approved February 24,1881,
to select a magazine rifle for the service of the United States,
Russell submitted to said board an operative magazine rifle

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

made in accordance with his letters patent, and on or about
December 16, 1890, .ubmitted to another board of officers, con-,
vened for like purpose, the same rifle. The officers made reports
on the rifle, which reports, it is alleged, may be found in certain Congressional documenats designated by number and of the
session of Congress of whose redords they constitute a part.
On the 15th of September, 1892, a second board recommended
the adoption of the magazine rifle presented to it by the KragJorgensen Gevaerkompagni of Christiania, Norway, and the
rifle was provisionally adopted by the War Department for the
use of the United States Army. The rifle is termed in the petition "Army rifle."
The petition recites a correspondence between Russell and
the Chief of Ordnance of the United States Army, giving its
substance, which may be omitted, as the letters are hereafter
set out in full.
It is also alleged that on June 7, 1893, the Krag-Sorgensen
Gevaerkompagni and the United States, represented by Brigadier General D. W. Flagler, United States Army, Chief of
Ordnance, under the direction and by the authority of the Secretary of War, entered into a contract, whereby that company
granted to the United States the right to manufacture an unlimited number of said "Army rifles." As much of the contract as we consider important is hereinafter set out.
That the United States did proceed to manufacture said
"Army rifles," and .introduce them for use in the United
States Army, and since January 1, 1894, commenced to account, and has ever since accounted, to the Krag-Jorgensen Company for royalties, at the rate named in the contract, and paid
certain sums on account thereof. The company failed to furnish an indemnifying bond, but the United States, with consent
of the company, withheld a certain amount of the royalties, which
aggregated on or about June 16,1895, the sum of $25,000. The
company then gave a bond with sureties, and the said sum was
paid to it. The bond was conditioned as follows:
"That whereas the Krag-Xorgensen Gevaerkompagni of
Christiania, Norway, has, on the seventh day of June, 1893,
entered into a contract with the United States, represented
by Brigdier General D. W. Flagler, Chief of Ordnance, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

granting unto the United States full rights to manufacture an
unlimited number of the Krag Jorgensen magazine firearms,
for the military service of the United States, under the American patents Nos. 429,811, of June 10, 1890, and 492,212, of
February 21, 1893, granted to 0. W. J. Krag and E. Jorgensen, during the lifetime of the said patents, and by the said
contract covenanted to indemnify the United States, and all
persons acting under them, for all liability on account of any
patent rights granted by the United States which may affect
the right to manufacture therein contracted for, and further
covenanted and agreed to furnish, before the payment of any
royalties by the United States, a good and sufficient bond in
the penal sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, to protect and
defend the United States against all suits and claims by any
and all persons for infringement on their inventions in the manufacture of said arms, and to pay all judgments that may be
obtained against the United States for the same:
"I1ow, therefore, if the said Krag-Jorgensen Gevaerkompagni shall and will in all respects indemnify the United
States, and all persons acting under them, for all liability on
account of any patent rights granted by the United States
which may affect the right to manufacture granted by said
contract, and shall and will fully protect and defend the United States against all suits and claims by any and all persons
for infringement of their inventions in the manufacture of said
arms, and pay all judgments that may be obtained against the
United States, or any officer or agent thereof for the same, then
the above obligation shall be void and of no effect; otherwise
to remain in full force and virtue."
It is alleged that the United States manufactured and used
upwards of 75,000 "Army rifles" containing Russell's invention, and derived a profit thereby of $1 on each rifle.
The petition concluded as follows:
"By reason of the foregoing facts the claimants say:
"That neither the said contract, entered into by the United
States and the Krag-Jorgensen Gevaerkompagni (Exhibit L)nor
the said bond of indemnity delivered by the, Krag-Jorgensen
Gevaerkompagni to the United States, did provide the claimants
with a remedy against the said Krag-Jorgensen Gevaerkompagni,

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

for the use made by the United States of the claimants' said
patented invention in accordance with the first alternative proposed by the Ordnance Department in its said letter to the
claimant Russell, bearing date November 18, 1892 (Exhibit B).
"That there isto beimplied from the use by the United States
of the claimants' said patented invention, as hereinbefore related, a contract, whereby the United States agreed to pay to
the claimants reasonable compensation for the same, and whereby the amount of such compensation was to be ascertained by
means of a suit to be brought by the claimants in this court, in
accordance with the second alternative proposed in the said letter (Exhibit B), and that the sum of $100,000 would be reasonable compensation for the said use, and that the United States
has failed to pay the claimants the said sum of $100,000, or any
sum or sums whatsoever for or on account of the said use, although duly requested thereunto.
"The claimants are the only persons owning or interested in
the claim above set forth, and no assignment or transfer of the
said claim or of any part thereof or interest therein has been
made. The claimants are justly entitled to receive and recover
from the United States the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), after allowing all.just credits and offsets. The
claimants -have always borne true allegiance to the government
of the United States, and have not in any way aided, abetted or
given encouragement to rebellion against the said government,
and they believe the facts hereinabove stated to be true.
"Wherefore the claimants pray for judgment against the
United States in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000), and for such further relief as this honorable court
may be entitled to grant, both at law and in equity, in the premises."
The following is the correspondence:
Exci~T "A.

(Copy.)
"WASuNjToN, D. C., November 16, 1892.
"To the Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Army.
"Sir: In the interest of Major Wm.R. Livermore, U. S. Army,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and myself, I have the honor to invite attention to claims 22,
28 and 29 in U. S. patent No. 230,823, owned by us, as we believe their provisions to be infringed in the construction of the
Krag-Jorgensen magazine gun lately adopted by the War Department, the points of resemblance being in the connection between the magazine and the receiver.
"In considering the allowance to inventors, we would request
that our claims for these vital points of construction be regarded.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
(Signed)

"A. H. lusssELL,

Capt. of Ordnance, . . Army.
"EXH BIT

B.

" 5839.
"Ordnance Office, .War Department,
"W1AsNGTON, November 18, 1892.
"Capt. A. H. :Russell, Ordnance Department, U. S. A., cor.
15th St. and N. Y. Ave., Washington, D. C.
"Sir: In reference to your letter of the 16th instant claiming
the use of your patent right in the Krag-Jorgensen gun, lately
adopted by this department for trial, which has been received
and placed on file, I am instructed by the Chief of Ordnance
to inform you that the business arrangements with the KragJorgensen Company for the manufacture of this arm have not
yet been completed.
"On the one hand, that company may agree to indemnify
the United States on account of any patent rights granted by
the United States which may affect the manufacture of the
guns, in which case your recourse would be to communicate
directly with the company.
"On the other hand, should the government proceed to manufacture the arms without such arrangement, your course will
be to bring a suit against the government in the Court of Claims
after manufacture has progressed.
C. W. WHIPPLE,
(Signed)
"Respectfully,
"Capt. Ord. .Dept., UT. . A.

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement ofthee Case.

"ExnirT C.

"WAGsTiNTo, D. C., December 9, 1892.
"To the Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Army.
"Sir: In reference to my letter to the Chief of Ordnance -of
November 16, 1892, and to the answer of November 18th from
the Ordnance Office in reply thereto, concerning the claims 22,
28 and 29 in the U. S. patent to me, No. 230,823 (a copy of the
specifications of which was enclosed in my letter), I desire to
say that I could practically have no remedy for infringement
of my patent against the Krag-Jorgensen Company, as they
have not, that I am aware of, any property in this country;
and also that I presume it would be more satisfactory to the
United States, as it certainly would beto me, to have whatever
may be justly due to me on my patents allowed without litigation.
"I therefore hope that the Ordnance Office will bear my letter of November 16th, and this letter, in mind, and allow me
a hearing before any business arrangement with the KragJorgensen Company is closed.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"A. H. RUSSELL,
(Signed)

"Cpt. of Ordnance, U. ,S. Aq'mly.
"ExHmrt D.
"Ordnance Office, War Department,
"1
W

snnrGTow,

December 19, 1892.

"Capt. A. H. Russell, World's Columbian Exposition, Chicago,
Ill.
"Sir: Referring to your letters of the 16th ult. and the
9th inst., on the subject of infringement of your patent in the
manufacture of the Krag-Jorgensen magazine firearm, I am
instructed by the Chief of Ordnance to inform you that in a
letter received from the Commissioner of Patents dated 15th inst.
he states that the invention of H. I. Krag and Erik Jorgensen
for improvement in machine firearms has been examined and
the invention has been found patentable in view of the state of
the art, but that other applications are pending which appear

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

to conflict in subject-matter; therefore the application of Krag
and Jorgensen will be withheld from issue until that question is
settled definitely.
"I am also instructed to inform you that in a letter to the
Commissioner of Patents, dated 16th inst., the Chief of Ordnance transmitted to him copies of your above-mentioned letters
of 16th ult. and 9th inst.
"Should you desire further presentation of your patent, it is
suggested that you communicate direct with the Commissioner
of Patents.
"Respectfully,

(Signed)

CHARLEs

SHALER,

"Capt. Ord. Dept. U. S. A.
"EXHIBIT E.

"1429 New York Ave.,
"WA sHINGTON, D. C., February 6, 1893.
"To the Commissioner of Patents.
"Sir: In an official communication from the Chief of Ordnance U. S. A., dated December 19, 1892, it is suggested that
I 'communicate direct with the Commissioner of Patents' in
regard to the following matter.
"I presented to the Ordnance Office the claim that the gun
recommended for adoption by the U. S. Army, known as the
Krag-Jorgensen gun, infringed claims 22, 28 and 29 of my
patent No. 230,823, dated August 3, 1880, and I ask that the
government do justice by me in case of using such device.
"The Chief of Ordinance states that there .were claims now
pending in the Patent Office, and referred me to you, with the
information that copies of my letters had been sent you December 16, 1892.
"Copies of these letters are enclosed, with copies of replies
from the Ordnance Office.
"I have the honor to in-quire what further action should be
taken by me.
"Very respectfully,
(Signed)
A. H. RussELL.

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"ExaIrr F.

"Department of the Interior, United States Patent Office,
"1WAHiNGToN, D. C., February 14, 1893.
"Capt. A. H. Russell, U. S. A., 1429 New York avenue, Washington, D. C.
"Sir: I have your letter of the 6th instant, and in reply you
are advised that it is not seen how the Patent Office has any
jurisdiction in the matter concerning which you write. Questions of infringement can be determined only by the courts.
"Very respectfully,

(Signed)

"12,509 Div. A-1893.

W. E. SIMONDS,

Cornmismioner.
"Exnrnrr G.

" CHICAGO, ILL., June 30, 1893.
"To the Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.
"Sir: In reference to correspondence regarding infringement
of my patent No. 230,823 by the manufacture of the KragJorgensen magazine rifle recommended by the magazine gun
board, I have the honor to state that I communicated direct
with the Commissioner of Patents, as suggested in the letter of
December 19, 1892, from the Ordnance Office, and was told
that the Patent Office had no jurisdiction. The patent infringed is one of long standing, and no claim is made that the
Xrag-Jorgensen patents infringe, but it is claimed that the
construction of the gun embodying those patents does infringe
my patent of 1880.
"I therefore respectfully renew the request -contained in my
letter of December 9, 1892, that the Ordnance Office will ' allow
me a hearing before any business arrangement with the KragJorgensen Company isclosed?
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
(Signed)
"A. H. RussELL,
"Capt. of Ord., U. S. Army.
"ExHmrr H.

"(1st indorsement.)
"Ordnance Office, Washington, July 7, 1893.
"Respectfully returned to Capt. A. H. Russell, Government

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Building, Jackson Park, Chicago, Ill., with information that a
statement of this case should be made in writing for file at this
office, and for future reference, as the case stated cannot be
determined by the Ordnance. Office.
"The agreement with the Krag-Jorgensen people is such
that they are required to guarantee the United States against
all damages for infringement.
"CHARLES SHALER,

(Signed)

"Acting Chief of Ordnance.
"Exm~rr I.
"CHICAGO,

ILL.,

November 22, 1893.

"To the Chief of Ordnance, U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.
"Sir: In response to your communication of July 7, 1893,
in the 1st indorsement oa my letter of June 30, 1893, Ordnance
Office files 3515 of 1893, I hereby respectfully state my position with regard to the Krag-Jorgensen rifle construction recently adopted for the U. S., Army, and now in process of
manufacture-at the Springfield Armory.
"I do not-claim to be the inventor of all the mechanism of
said gun. There are probably several important and meritorious inventions involved. The grant of a patent by the Patent
Office on some features, however, does not authorize the making or using 6f other features covered by other patentees, as I
am informed, and as seems a reasonable construction of law.
"The specific features used in said gun and claimed by me,
and believed to be covered by my U. S. patent No. 230,823 of
August 3,1880, are embraced in.the 22d, 28th and possibly in the
29th claims of said patent. A free description of the general
features of my invention as used in th.e Krag-Jorgensen gun
would be 'a magazine feeding into the side of the receiver
under a bridge, with the ontrance w.y under the bridge narrowed at the rear of the receiver, so as to permit but a slight
projection of the side of the cartridge into the receiver when
the bolt is drawn back, but with a wider opening further forward, so that as the cartridge moves forward impelled by ihe
bolt, it will find a full-width passage under the bridge, through
which it passes into the receiver.'

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"This bridge and magazine opening is described in my patent,
referred to, page 6, lines 100 et seq., as follows:
"'In filling the chamber of the magazine the gate is forced
downward as the cartridges are filled in, leaving ample space
to insert cartridges between the top edge of the magazine wall
and a bridge or top part, M, and thus supply the magazine.
When relieved of the downward pressure the gate*ascends far
enough to prevent egress of cartridges in any other way than
sidewise from the magazine mouth into the receiver B' beneath
the bridge.
"' The bridge M is of peculiar formation on its under and inner surface, and is at one side of the longitudinal center of the
barrel and breech-bolt housing. (See particularly Figs. 9, 10,
11, 12, 13 and 14, where is represented the manner of curving or
recessing the bridge so as to admit cartridges to the receiver
and guide and control their movements as supplied to the receiver from the magazine mouth, and thence conducted to firing
chamber by the thrust of the breech bolt A.)
"' Supposing the breech bolt to be retraced and about to be advanced, the operation of supplying and seating a cartridge from
the magazine is as follows, reference being had t6 the last referred to figures and to Figs. 3, 4 and 6, ignoring for the present the hinged gate N : The topmost cartridge is elevated by
the pusher against the bridge, so that its flange projects partially, but very slightly, into the path of travel of the breech-bolt
head, (see dotted lines, Fig. 11,) and in which position it is prevented from accidental inward movement by a slight ridge or
swell, n, (see Figs. 4 and 11,) at the rear portionof the edge or
wall of the opening in the receiver bottom, with which the
magazine communicates, and by a similar ridge or downward
swell, n/, on the bridge.
"'The point or nose of the cartridge is guided past the spring
Zand into the firing chamber b, by the flaring way or incline M
as the bolt advances.
"'Before the cartridge has been moved forward far enough
by the advance of the bolt to jam or bind crosawise, the flange
will have been moved to a point where the two ridges n h' begin to slope respectively downward and inward gradually to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

the plane of the bottom or lowest part of the receiver, and upward and inward, thus allowing the flange to pass toward its
place in the receiver. The bridge is also cut away on a curve
or incline vO, forward and inward from its lower edge to ?n',

so that as the front of the cartridge is entering the chamber the
rear is being gradually brought into line therewith.
"'About the tine the flange has been advanced to the point
indicated by m', Fig. 9, the curved recess or incline i 2 of the
inner and under side of the bridge, which had previously served
to gradually admit the inward passage of the flange, and which
at this point terminates in a swell or ridge similar to n', now
serves to prevent its escape or outward movement and to direct it
into the proper position to be pushed home and firmly seated by
the bolt, as already described. . . . The bridge M is shown
as formed with or attached to the magazine. It may, however,
obviously be formed with the shoe or breech of the gun partly
over and at one side of the receiver chamber?
"In the main, this description applies to the Krag-Jorgensen
gun quite as well as to my own gun, and my opinion is confirmed by that of experts that this part of my construction has
been adopted in that arm.
"I am informed that my rights under my patent depend on
the claims therein, and my belief is sustained by expert opinion
that the Krag-Jorgensen gun under construction at Springfield
infringes the 22d claim of my patent, which reads as follows:
"' 22. The combination of the shoe chamber or receiver, the
bridge at the side and top of the receiver, and the magazine
chamber having an inlet to receive the cartridges inserted downward outside and beneath the bridge, and a mouth to conduct
them beneath the bridge into -and at the side of the receiver,
substantially as hereinbefore set forth.'
"Taking the elements of this claim separately, it will be seen
that the Krag-Jorgensen gun has ' the shoe. or receiver. All
bolt guns and many others have it.' The Krag gun is, however,
one of a few to have ' the bridge at the side and top of the receiver.' It alsd has ' the magazine chamber having an inlet to
receive the cartridges inserted downward outside- and beneath
the bridge.' It is true that the Krag.Jorgensen gun shows the

RUSSELL v. UNITED STA.TES.
Statement of the Case.

loading opening in a different place from that illustrated in my
patent, but my claim is not limited as to the exact location of
the loading opening, and the whole tenor of my patent is
against the theory that I am limited in this claim to thie precise
construction shown in my drawing. Further, I am informed
that the rule of law is that a patent claim, if valid, covers its
mechanical equivalents-that is, other devices operating in a
similar way to a like result, which is certainly the case in this
instance. My claim further specifies 'a mouth by which to
conduct them' (the cartridges) ' beneath the bridge into and at
the side of the receiver, substantially as hereinbefore set forth.'
This language, like the rest of the claim, applies quite as well to
the Krag-Jorgensen gun as to the one invented and constructed
by me.
"It thus seems demonstrable that the Krag-Jorgensen. gun,
having adopted part of my invention, has also adopted that part
covered by claim 22.
"Claim 28 in my specified patent is as follows:
"'28. The combination, substantially as hereinbefore set forth,
of the reciprocating breech bolt, the shoe chamber or receiver,
the magazine chamber having a mouth, as described, the cartridge-supplying mechanism, and the bridge M, having the ridge
or swell n, and otherwise curved or recessed, substantially in
the manner and for the purpose set forth.'
"The Krag-Iorgensen gun has ' the reciprocating breech bolt,
the shoe chamber or receiver, the magazine chamber having a
mouth;' it has ' cartridge-supplying mechanism;' and ' the
bridge having the ridge or swell' below the main part of the
bridge and extending forward precisely in the same manner
and for the same purpose as the swell n'of my patent, and is
otherwise curved or recessed substantially in the manner set
forth in my patent. I therefore feel warranted in the belief
that my claim 28 covers the Krag-Jorgensen construction, and
is infringed thereby.
"Claim 29 of my patent is as follows:
"' 29. The bridge M, located relatively to the receiver and
mouth of the magazine essentially as shown and described, and
having the rear ridge n', and the curved or inclined surfaces W'

-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1900.

Statement of the Case.

and n, substantially as and for the purpose hereinbefore set
forth.'
"The construction of the Krag-Jorgensen gun substantially
conforms to the terms of this claim also, yet I am not quite
certain that the bridge in that gun has a projection the equivalent of that described as n2 in my patent. I presume this question can only be determined by careful expert examination.
"I, therefore, base my claim for compensation on the infringement of my claims 22 and 28, and the probable infringement of
claim 29, in my said patent No. 230,823, of August 3, 1880, by
the Krag-Jorgensen constru6tion.
"I am not fully informed as to the terms of the contract
between the United States and the owners of the Krag-Jorgensen
patent. Assuming that the owners of said patent are in ignorance of my rights in the premises, I respectfully request that a
copy of this communication may be sent to the said parties, and
a duplicate of this paper is forwarded for that purpose, with an
extra copy of my patent to go with the duplicate. I further
request that I may be furnished with the name and address of
the responsible parties representing the Krag-Jorgensen interest.
"I am aware that in the event of a suit in equity, the alleged
infringing parties have a statutory right to challenge the validity
of mypatent, and, to avoid litigation, I am willing to go further
than to make a mere statement of the primafaciecase as above,
and show to infringing parties or their experts that my claims
are well within rfiy rights, provided I am met by these parties
in a fair spirit, and with a desire to make a just compensation
when my title to the property is shown.
"My first official notice to the Ordnance Department of this
infringement is dated November 16, 1892, (Ordnance Office
file 5839 of 1892,) but a gun presenting the special features
here mentioned was submitted by me to the board of magazine
guns, convened by General Orders 31, H. Q. A., March 21,1881,
and it is described in the report of that board. It is now in my
possession subject to examination.
"Very respectfully, your obedient
(Signed) servant,
"A. H. RUSSELL."

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"1ExHrnrrK.

(Copy.)
"Ordnance Office, War Department,
"'WsaSHINGToN, December 1, 1893.
"Capt. A. H. Russell, Ordnance Department, U. S. A. Government Building, Jackson Park, Chicago, Ill.
"Sir: I am instructed by the Chief of Ordnance to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 22d inst., and to inform
you that the terms of the contract between the United States
and the Krag-Jorgensen Company contains a clause to the following effect:
"' The said party of the first-part shall indemnify the United
States and all persons acting under them for all liability on account of any patent rights granted by the United States which
may affect the right to manufacture herein contracted for.'
"You have requested that a copy of your communication and
a copy of your patent should be forwarded by this office to the
company, and for that purpose you have forwarded duplicates
of your letter and of the patent specifications. It is considered
best that you should forward these communications direct ; they
are, therefore, returned to you for the purpose. The address of
the contracting company is ' The Krag-Jorgensen Gewehr Kompagnie, Christiania, Norway.' The other*papers, enclosures to
.Ordnance Office file 3515, containing letter and copies of patent specifications, are filed in this office for future reference.
"Your attention is again invited to the statement of the first
indorsement on that file, which states that the case ' cannot be
determined by the Ordnance Department.'
"Respectfully,
(Signed)
CHAmLEs Sn&LER,
Capt.,"Ord. Dept., U. S. A."
The parts of the contract between the United States and the
Krag-Jorgensen Company, which are relevant to the question
presented in this case, are as follows:
"It is further stipulated and agreed that before any royalties
are paid by the United States, the Krag-Jorgensen Gevarkompagni shall furnish a good and sufficient bond in the penal sum
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), to protect and deVOL. CLXxiI-34:

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

fend the United States against all suits and claims by any and
all persons for infringement of their inventions in the manufacture of these arms, and to pay all judgments that may be obtained against the United States for the same.
"2d. All the - herein contracted for shall be delivered by
the said party of the first part.
"3d. The said party of the first part shall indemnify the
United States and all persons acting under them for all liability on account of any patent rights granted by the United
States which may affect the right to manufacture herein contracted for."
Xr. James I Bayden for appellants.
Gammon was on his brief.

XM. JosePh Z Xc-

XA. Chare C. Binney for appellee. 21r. Assistant Attarney GeneraZ Pradt was on his brief.

MR. JusTIcE McKmTA, after making the above statement of
the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is donceded that a contract must be established to entitle
appellants to recover, and, it is contended, that one is established by the correspondence between the Ordnance Department and Russell in regard to the use of the "Army rifle,"
which, it is .claimed, contained features of Russell's invention.
That is, not an express contract is claimed, but an implied contract is claimed. This court has held that under the act of
March 3; 1887, 24 Stat. 505, c. 859, defining claims of which the
Court of Clahims hid jurisdiption, the court had no jurisdiction of
demands against the United States founded on torts. Bchilling'erv. Unitedta, 155 U. S. 163; United States v.Berdanir Arm Co., 156 U. S. 552. In other words, to give the Court of
Claims jurisdiction the demand sued on must be founded on a
convention between the parties-" a coming together of minds."
That there was such "coming together of minds" is asserted
in the case at bar, and United States v. Palmer,128 U. S. 262,
is cited to sustain the assertion. That case was considered and

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

commented on in chiZlnger v. United &ate8, s pir, and it was

said to be "an action to recover for the authorized use of a patent by the government, and these observations in the opinion
are pertinent: I This is not a claim for an infringement, but a
claim of compensation for an authorized use-two things to.tally distinct in the law, as distinct as trespass on lands is from
use and occupation under a lease. The first sentence in the original opinion of the court below strikes the keynote of the argument on this point. It is as follows : "The claimant in this case
invited the government to adopt his patented infantry equipments, and the government did so. It is conceded on both
sides that there was no infringement of the claimant's patent,
and that whatever the government did was done with the consent of the patentee and under his implied license." We think
that an implied contract for compensationfairly arose under the
license to use, and the actual use, little or much, that ensued
thereon.'
The facts of the case fully supported the remarks of the court.
The petitioner Palmer was the inventor, patentee and owner
of improvement of infantry equipments. They were submitted
to a.board of officers appointed to consider and report upon the
subject of proper equipment for infantry soldiers. The board
recommended Palmer's invention. The recommendation was
approved by the General of the Army and °the Secretary of
War, and the invention was manufactured by the government
and used.
.MXfeev&r v. United BStee, 14 0. 01. 396, affirmed on appeal
by this court, rested on the sane facts as the Palmer case, the
only difference being hat McKeever's invention was a cartridge
box. There was a recommendation by the board, and the manufacture and use of the cartridge box by the government.
But there is a wide difference between the facts'in those
cases and the facts in the case at bar. The rifle of the petitioners was not adopted by the board; the Krag-Jorgensen rifle
was. The contention is, however, that the latter rifle contained
some of the features of petitioners' invention, and that by adopting it the Ordnance Department conceded that fact and the
rights of petitioners to compensation. We are unable to draw

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court

tnat conclusion from the correspondence, conceding the power
of the Ordnance Department to make the concessions.
The first letter of Captain Russell "invites attention to claims
22, 28 and 29" of his patent, and expresses a belief that "the
Krag-Jorgensen magazine gun lately adopted by the War .Department" infringed them "in the connection between the
magazine and the receiver." The letter concluded as follows:
"In considering the allowance for inventions we would request
that our claims for these vital points of construction be regarded." A somewhat vague request. However, the letter
was replied to (November 18), and he was told that "the business arrangements with the Krag-Jorgensen Company for the
manufacture of this arm have not yet been completed," and it
is represented to him that the company may agree to indemnify
the United States, in which case his "recourse would be to
communicate directly with the company." Or if, the government should proceed to manufacture the arms without such
arrangement, his course would be "to bring suit against the
government in the Court of Claims afte manufacture has progressed." Of what and on account of what was he to communicate to the Krag-Jorgensen Company, and on account of
what was he to bring suit against the government? On account
of an implied contract which had arisen or would arise between
him and the United States? Certainly not but on account of
an infringement of his invention which might arise. And this
was his interpretation, for he writes on the 9th of December
that he "could practically have no remedy for infringement of
any patent against the Krag-Jorgensen Company, as they have
not, that I am aware 'of, any property in the United States."
He requested a hearing before" any business arrangement with
the Krag-Jorgensen Company" should be closed.
In reply to that letter he was told by the Ordnance Department that his letters had been referred to the Commissioner of
Patents, and that the Commissioner "states that. the invention
of H. I. Krag and Erik Jorgensen for improvement in magazine
firearms has been examined, and the invention has been found
patentable." He is then requested, in "further ptesentation"
of his patent, to "communicate direct with the Commissioner

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of Patents." He did so, and was informed that it was not seen
how the Patent Office had any jurisdiction in the matter.
"Questions of infringement," he was told, "can be determined
only by the courts." Letter February 14, 1893. Waiting until
June 30, he informs the Ordnance Department of the reply of
the Commissioner of Patents, claimed again the Krag-Jorgensen
to be an infringement of his patent and repeated the request of
December 9, 1892, that the Ordnance Office allow him "a hearing before any business arrangement with the Krag-Jorgensen
Company" be closed. On July 7 that letter was returned to
Captain Russell with the endorsement, "that a statement of the
case be made in writing for file at this office, and for future reference, as the case stated cannot be determined by the Ordnance
Office. The agreement with the Krag-Jorgensen people is such
that they are required to guarantee the United States against
all damages for infringement."
In answer to this letter Captain Russell's letter of N~ovember 22, 1893, (Ex. I,) was written. It need not be reproduced at
length. It described his invention and wherein the Krag-Jorgensen rifle infringed that invention, and stated that he based
his claim "for compensation on the infringement" of his claims
22 and 28 "and the probable infringement of claim 29" of his
patent No. 230,823, of August 3, 1800, "by the Krag-Jorgensen
construction." The letter concluded as follows:
"I am not fully informed as to the terms of the contract between the United States and the owners of the Krag-Jorgensen
patent. Assuming that the owners of said patent are in ignorance of my rights in the premises, I respectfully request that a
copy of thig communication may be sent to said parties, and a
duplicate of this paper is forwarded for that purpose, with an
extra copy of my patent to go with the duplicate. I further
request that I may be furnished with the name and address of
the responsible parties representing the Krag-Jorgensen interest.
"I am aware that in the event of a suit in equity the alleged
infringing parties have a statutory right to challenge the validity of my patent, and, to avoid litigation, I am willing to go
further than to make a mere statement of the primafacie case
as above, and show to the infringing parties or their experts that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

my claims are well within my rights, provided I am met by
these parties in a fair spirit and with a desire to make just compensation when my title to the property is shown.
"1My first official notice to the Ordnance Department of this
infringement is dated November 16, 1892, (Ordnance Office file
5839 of 1892,) but a gun presenting the special features here
mentioned was submitted by me to the board on magazine guns,
convened by General Orders 31, H. Q. A., 'March 21, 1881, and
it is described in the report of that board. It is now in my
possession subject to examination."
He received the following reply, which seems decisive against
the contbntion of petitioners that there was a concession of their
patented rights and implied contract to compensate petitioners:
"I am instructed by the Chief of Ordnance to acknowledge
the receipt of your letter of the 22d instant, and to inform you
that the terms of the contract between the United States and
the Krag-Jorgensen Company contain a clause to the following
effect:
"' The said party of the first part shall indemnify the United
States and all persons acting under them for all liability on account of any patent rights granted by the United States which
may affect the right to manufacture herein contracted for.
"' You have requested that a copy of your communication and
a copy of your patent should be forwarded by this office to the
company, and for that purpose you have forwarded duplicates
of your letter and of the patent specifications. It is considered
best that you should forward these communications direct; they
are, therefore, returned to you for the purpose.'
"The address of the contracting party is ' The Krag-Torgensen Geivehr-Kompagnie, Christiania, Norway.' The other papers, enclosures to Ordnance Office -file 3515, containing letter
and copies of patent specifications, are filed in this office for
future reference.
"Your attention is again invited to the statement of the first
endorsement on that file, which states that the case ' cannot be
determined by the Ordnance Department.'"
Not only is the foregoing letter closing the correspondence
decisive against petitioners, but we can discern nothing which

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tends to support their contention-and claim. It was not deemed
necessary even to grant his request for a hearing. His rifle
was not adopted; another was. There was no concession of his
rights. He was told twice that his case could not be determined
by the Ordnance Department. There was probably, however,
no thought of an arbitrary invasion of his rights. The Ordnance
Office sought the opinion of the Commissioner of Patents, and
was informed that the Krag-Jorgensen improvement in machine
firearms had been examined, and the invention had been found
patentable in view of the state of the art. The patent of petitioners was part of the state of the art. The opinion of the
Commissioner, of course, was not necessarily conclusive. As
he himself said, "Questions of infringement belong to the
courts." And because such questions are for the courts the
Ordnance Office, no doubt, took indemnity from the Krag-Jorgensen Company, not in concession of petitioners' claim, but for
protection against it, if protection should be necessary, and
whether it would be or not the Ordnance Office very naturally
resolved not to determine. The prudence which takes a bond
against a claim cannot be said to constitute or raise a contract
in favor of the claim-cannot be said to have intended to create
the liability which was meant to be forestalled. Indeed, the
Ordnance Office twice wrote Captain Russell that his case could
not be determined by it. -No contract therefore based on the
action of that office can be claimed. If petitioners have suffered
injury it has been through the infringement of their patent, not
by a breach of contract, and for the redress of an infringement
the Court of Claims has no jurisdiction., This doctrine may be
technical. Ifthe United States was a person, on the facts of
this record (assuming, of course, the petition to be true) it could
be sued as upon an implied contract, but it is the prerogative
of a sovereign not to be sued at all without its consent or, upon
such causes of action as it chooses. It has not chosen to be
sued in an action sounding in tort this court has declared, as
we have seen.
Judgment affirmed.
Mn. JusTicE HARL& did not participate in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

s, MR. JusTICE WHITE and MR. JusTICE
R. JusTIcE S RAdissented.

PEoKHA

LANTRY v. WALLAOE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
1901.-Decided May 27,1901.
No. 180. Argued March 11,
This action was brought by the receiver of anational bank under Rev. Stat.
§ 5151, providing that share holders of every such association shall be held
individually responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for another,
for all contracts, debts and engagements of such association, to the

amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the
amount invested in such shares.
Assuming that the defendant became a shareholder in a national bank in
consequence of fraudulent representations of the bank's officers, two
questions are presented for determination: 1, Whether such representations, relied updn by defendant, constituted a defence in this action,
brought by the receiver only for the purpose of enforcing the individual
liability imposed by § 5151, Rev. Stat., upon shareholders of national
banking associations? which question is answered in the negative; and,
2, Can the defendant, 1 ecause of frauds of the bank whereby he was induced to become a purchaser of its stock, have a judgment against the
receiver, on acounterclaim for money paid by him for stock, to be satisfied out of the bank's assets and funds in his control and possession?
which question is also answered in the negative.
The present action is at law, its object being to enforce a liability created
by statute for the benefit of creditors who have demands against the bank
of which the plaintiff is receiver. If the defendant was entitled, under
the facts stated, to a rescission of his contract of purchase, and to a cancellation of his stock certificate, and, consequently, to be relieved from
responsibility as a shareholder of the bank, he could obtain such relief
only by a suit in equity to which the bank and the receiver were parties.
Whether a decree based upon the facts set forth in the answer, even if established in a suit in equity, would be consistent with sound principle,
or with the statute regulating the affairs of national banks, and securing
the rights of creditors, is a question upon-which this court does not express an opinion.
The purchase of this stock by the bank under the circumstances was ultra
vires, but that did not render the purchase void.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

