NILVA v. UNITED STATES.

385

Syllabus.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 37. Argued November 8, 13, 1956.-Decided February 25, 1957.
In connection with a trial for conspiracy to violate the Federal Slot
Machine Act, the court issued subpoenas duces tecum directing a
corporation owned by one of the defendants to produce certain
records of purchases and sales of slot machines. Petitioner, who
was a vice-president of the corporation and an attorney of record
for its owner, appeared on behalf of the corporation, produced
certain records and stated that they were all of the subpoenaed
records that he could find. Under court order, all records of the
corporation were impounded by a Federal Marshal and among them
were found records of purchases and sales of slot machines which
petitioner had not produced. On the day after conviction of the
defendants, the court ordered petitioner to appear four days later
and show cause why he should not be held in criminal contempt
for obstructing the administration of justice on three specifications.
After a hearing, petitioner was found guilty of criminal contempt
on all three specifications and was given a general sentence of
imprisonment. On appeal, the Government abandoned two of the
specifications but contended that the sentence should be sustained
on the third. Held:
1. The conviction of criminal contempt on the third specification
is sustained. Pp. 392-396.
(a) A criminal contempt is committed by one who, in response
to a subpoena calling for corporate records, refuses to surrender
them when they are in existence and within his control. P. 392.
(b) The evidence reasonably supports the conclusion that the
records covered by the third specification were in existence and
were within petitioner's control. Pp. 392-394.
(c) Although petitioner testified at his trial that he attempted
in good faith to comply with the subpoenas, this testimony was
subject to appraisal by the trial court, and the record contained
sufficient basis to justify the court in concluding that petitioner's
failure to comply with the subpoena was intentional and without
"adequate excuse" within the meaning of Rule 17 (g) of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure. P. 395.
(d) In the circumstances of this case and in view of the wide
discretion on such matters vested in the trial court, petitioner's

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of the Court.

352 U. S.

claim that he was not allowed adequate time to prepare his defense
is unfounded. P. 395.
(e) Trial of petitioner before the trial judge who initiated
the contempt proceeding was not improper, because Rule 42 (b)
of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure requires disqualification of the trial judge only when "the contempt charged involves
disrespect to or criticism of a judge," the contempt here charged
was not of that kind, and there is no showing in this case of an
abuse of discretion in failing to assign another judge. Pp. 395-396.
2. Since petitioner's general sentence followed his conviction on
three original specifications and the Government has abandoned
two of them, the trial court should be given an opportunity to
reconsider the sentence; and the sentence is vacated and the case
is remanded to the trial court for that purpose. P. 396.
227 F. 2d 74, 228 F. 2d 134, judgment vacated and case remanded
to the District Court.

Eugene Gressman argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was John W. Graff.
Richard J. Blanchard argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Rankin, Assistant Attorney General Olney and Beatrice
Rosenberg.
MR. JUSTICE

BURTON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case, a Federal District Court convicted an

attorney of criminal contempt on three specifications for
disobeying subpoenas duces tecum, and imposed a general sentence of imprisonment for a year and a day.

Since the Government has abandoned two of the specifications, the principal questions are whether there is
sufficient evidence to sustain the conviction on the third

specification standing alone, and, if so, whether the case
should be remanded for resentencing.

For the reasons

hereafter stated, we answer each in the affirmative.
In 1953, in the District Court of the United States for

the District of North Dakota, petitioner, Allen I. Nilva,

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

Opinion of the Court.

was tried, with Elno T. Christianson and Herman Paster,
for conspiracy to violate the Federal Slot Machine Act,
64 Stat. 1134-1136, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1171-1177. Christianson was the Attorney General of North Dakota. Paster
was the owner of several distributing companies located
in St. Paul, Minnesota. Petitioner was an attorney in
St. Paul, a brother-in-law of Paster, and an officer in several of Paster's distributing companies. The indictment
charged that these three conspired, with 6thers, to
accumulate slot machines late in 1950 and transport them
into North Dakota, where they were to be distributed
and operated under the protection of Christianson, who
was to take office as Attorney General of that State on
January 2, 1951.
On the first trial, in 1953, a jury was unable to agree
on the guilt of Christianson and Paster but acquitted
petitioner. In 1954, in preparation for a retrial of
Christianson and Paster, the same court issued subpoenas
duces tecum No. 78, returnable on March 22, and No. 160,
returnable on March 29. Each was addressed to the Mayflower Distributing Company, a St. Paul slot machine distributing corporation wholly owned by Paster. Each
called for the production of records, for certain periods in
1950 and 1951, relating to transactions in slot machines
and other coin-operated devices.1 Each was served on
Walter D. Johnson, secretary-treasurer of the company.
On the date set for trial, Paster, instead of producing
the subpoenaed records, moved to quash the subpoenas
1 Subpoena No. 160 commanded the corporation to-

"Come and bring with you all invoices, bills, checks, slips, papers,
records, letters, ledger sheets, bookkeeping records, journals and
copies thereof between, by or concerning Mayflower Distributing
Company, made, entered, sent or received from July 1, 1950, through
April 30, 1951, both dates inclusive, reflecting any and all purchases,
sales, trades, exchanges or transfers, both domestic and foreign of
any and all slot machines, flat-top or console, coin operated device,
whether new or used with any persons, firm or concern."

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of the Court.

352 U. S.

on the ground that the company was wholly owned by
him and that the subpoenas required him to furnish
evidence against himself. The motion was denied and, in
response to the Government's request, the court ordered
the subpoenaed records to be produced "forthwith." '
Three days later, on April 1, petitioner, who was an attorney of record for Paster, appeared in court and stated that
he was the company's vice-president appearing for it in
answer to the subpoenas. He said that "in response to
this subpoena I personally, with the aid of people in the
office force, searched all of our records in an attempt to
comply with your subpoena and have brotyght all of the
evidence I could to comply therewith." However, when
the Government asked for the records of purchases and
sales of slot machines called for by the subpoenas, he
stated that he had been unable to locate them and suggested that some of the company's records had been
transferred to St. Louis in connection With a conspiracy
case pending there on appeal.'
The trial court, being convinced, as it later stated, that
petitioner was giving false and evasive testimony, issued
2

This was pursuant to Rule 17 (c), Federal Rules of Criminal

Procedure:
"Rule 17. Subpoena.
"(c)

FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE AND OF OB-

A subpoena may also command the person to whom it is
directed to produce the books, papers, documents or other objects
JECTS.

designated therein. The court on motion made promptly may quash
or modify the subpoena if compliance would be unreasonable or

oppressive. The court may direct that books, papers, documents or
objects designated in the subpoena be produced before the court at
a time prior to the trial or prior to the time when they are to be
offered in evidence and may upon their production permit the books,

papers, documents or objects or portions thereof to be inspected by
the parties and their attorneys."
3 See Nilva v. United States, 212 F. 2d 115, decided April 19, 1954.
This related to Samuel George Nilva, not the petitioner herein.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

Opinion of the Court.

an order reciting the failure of the officers of the company
to produce the subpoenaed records and ordering all
records of the company impounded by the United States
Marshal. Many of the company's records in St. Paul
were at once impounded and accountants from the Federal Bureau of Investigation promptly examined them.
Among them were records of the company's purchases
and sales of slot machines in 1950 and 1951. At the conspiracy trial on April 12, an F. B. I. agent named Peterson
testified about those records from summaries he had
compiled.
On April 15, the trial court found it apparent that petitioner's testimony "was evasive or false, or both," and
ordered him not to leave its jurisdiction without permission. No further action was taken at that time "because
it was the Court's desire that the jury [in the conspiracy
case] should not learn of the affair during the trial, so
that the defendants therein would not be prejudiced by
it in any way."
On April 22, the jury found Christianson and Paster
guilty of the conspiracy charged.' On the following day,
the court directed petitioner to appear on April 27 and
show cause why he should not be held in criminal contempt for having obstructed the administration of justice.5
In three specifications, the court charged petitioner with"1. Giving false and evasive testimony under
oath on April 1, 1954, upon answering, as vice-president of thQ Mayflower Distributing Company, subpoenaes duces tecum directed to [it]
See Christianson v. United States, 226 F. 2d 646.
5,"Rule 42. Criminal Contempt.

4

"(b) DISPOSITION UPON NOTICE AND HEARING. A criminal contempt except as provided in subdivision (a) of this rule shall be
prosecuted on notice. The notice shall state the time and place
of hearing, allowing a reasonable time for the preparation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of the Court.

352 U. S.

"2. Disobedience to subpoena duces tecum No.
78, directed to the Mayflower Distributing Company ... in that the following articles were not
produced, as required thereby:
"(a) Original ledger sheet reflecting the
account of Stanley Baeder, November 1, 1950
through August 30, 1951;
"3. Disobedience to subpoena duces tecum No.
160 directed to the Mayflower Distributing Company, and disobedience to the order of the Court,
made on March 29, 1954, directing the Mayflower
Distributing Company to produce records forthwith,
in the case of United States of America v. Elmo T.
Christiansonand Herman Paster,Criminal No. 8158,
in that the following articles were not produced, as
required thereby:

"(a)
"(b)
"(c)
"(d)

General ledger 1950;
General ledger 1951;
Journal 1950-1951;
Check Register 1950-1951; . ...

defense, and shall state the essential facts constituting the criminal
contempt charged and describe it as such. The notice shall be given
orally by the judge in open court in the presence of the defendant
or, on application of the United States attorney or of an attorney
appointed by the court for that purpose, by an order to show cause
or an order of arrest. The defendant is entitled to a trial by jury
in any case in which an act of Congress so provides. He is entitled
to admission to bail as provided in these rules. If the contempt
charged involves disrespect to or criticism of a judge, that judge is
disqualified from presiding at the trial or hearing except with the
defendant's consent. Upon a verdict or finding of guilt the court
shall enter an order fixing the punishment." Fed. Rules Crim. Proc.
Authority to prosecute for criminal contempt is found in Rule
17 (g), Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and 18 U. S. C.

§401 (3).

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

Opinion of the Court.

At 10 a. m., on April 27, petitioner appeared as directed.
The court gave his counsel access to the impounded
records and postponed the hearing until 3 p. in. At that
time, the impounded books and records were present on
the trial table and petitioner took the stand in his own
defense. He identified items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
the 22 listed in the third specification and introduced
those records as his exhibits. Item (a) was the company's general ledger for 1950. It contained a record of
sales of new slot machines during October 1950-January
1951; sales of used slot machines during July 1950-January 1951; and purchases of used slot machines during
August 1950-January 1951. Petitioner admitted having previously examined the company's 1950 and 1951
general ledgers but said that he had not found evidence
of slot machine purchases and sales. He also admitted
that he had not examined 19 of the 22 items listed in
specification No. 3. At the .close of the hearing, over
petitioner's objection, a transcript of the testimony of
F. B. I. Agent Peterson, given at the conspiracy trial, was
admitted in evidence in the contempt proceeding without
opportunity for petitioner to confront him or crossexamine him in that proceeding.
After finding petitioner guilty of criminal contempt on
each of the three specifications, the court gave him a general sentence of imprisonment for a year and a day. On
June 3, it released him on bail but denied his motion to
suspend his sentence and grant him probation.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, 227 F. 2d
74, and denied rehearing, 228 F. 2d 134. We granted
certiorari. 350 U. S. 1005.
Although the District Court found petitioner guilty
of contempt on each of the 'three specifications, the
Governnent now concedes that the convictions on the
first two are of doubtful validity and does not undertake

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of the Court.

352 U. S.

to sustain them. Consequently, we do not consider them
here.'
This reduces the case to the charge that petitioner
wilfully disobeyed the court's order to produce certain
corporate records required by subpoena No. 160. On that
issue, it is settled that a criminal contempt is committed
by one who, in response to a subpoena calling for corporation or association records, refuses to surrender them when
they are in existence and within his control. United States
v. Fleischman, 339 U. S. 349; United States v. White,
322 U. S. 694; Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361;
and see United States v. Patterson,219 F. 2d 659.
The Government rests its case on petitioner's failure
to produce the records listed in the first four items set
forth in specification No. 3, i. e., the general ledger for
1950, the general ledger for 1951, the journal for 19501951, and the check register for 1950-1951. These are
impounded records which petitioner introduced in evidence as his exhibits. 7 The first is the general ledger for
1950, shown by the list of petitioner's exhibits to include
records of purchases and sales made during part of the
The Government concedes also that the transcript of Agent Peterson's testimony at the conspiracy trial should not have been admitted
in evidence in the contempt proceeding and does not rely on it here.
This concession does not materially affect the Government's case
under specification No. 3, because the books and records named in
that specification were properly introduced by petitioner as exhibits
in the contempt proceeding and speak for themselves.
7The parties stipulated that these exhibits would be a part of
the record on appeal. Their contents are summarized in a list of
exhibits which is included in a supplemental record, first introduced
before the Court of Appeals. Although petitioner moved to strike
out most of that supplemental record, he omitted from his motion
all references to the pages containing this list and he has not objected
to its presence in the record before us.
6

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner
period called for by subpoena No. 160.'
admits having previously examined the first two items.
Petitioner was a "nominal" vice-president of the corporation; he rendered it legal and administrative services of
many kinds; he was a brother-in-law of its sole owner and
president; he appeared in court as its official representative in answer to the subpoenas and represented that he
had brought with him all of the subpoenaed records that
he and the office force could find.
The subpoenas had been served on the secretarytreasurer of the corporation, who, in turn, had entrusted
to petitioner the duty of satisfying them.. When petis

Among the records called for by subpoena No. 160 are "ledger

sheets" reflecting purchases and sales of slot machines between July
1, 1950, and April 30, 1951. See note 1, supra. The list of exhibits
shows that exhibit No. 1 includes Mayflower's general ledger for
1950 in which theRecords indicate that "Sales-Bells New" (Slot Machines) [were] made as follows:
October 1950 .....................
December 1950 ...................
January 1951 ....................

$650.00
3,631.00
9,000.00

total $13,501.00
Sales-Bells used (slot machines)
July 1950 ........................
August 1950 ......................
September 1950 ..................
October 1950 .....................
November 1950 ..................
December 1950............ ....
January 1951 .....................

$1,249.00
3,160.00
2,125.00
(1,140.00)
625.00
14,104.00
50,005.00

total $72,499.50
(Footnote 8 continued on p. 394)

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
352 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tioner appeared in court in response to the subpoenas, he
did not claim either want of actual possession of the
required records or lack of opportunity or authority to
produce them. See United States v. Bryan, 339 U. S.
323, 333; Wilson v. United States, supra, at 376. Yet
he failed to produce the vital corporate records which
the Government promptly impounded. In our opinion, the evidence reasonably supports the conclusion
that those records were in existence and were within
petitioner's control.
The records further indicate that the following purchases were made:
"Purchases-Bells New" (slot machines)
"Purchases-Bells used" (slot machines)
August 1950 .............
"
1950 ........... .....
"
1950 ........... .....
September 1950 ........ .....
1950 ........ .....
1950 ........ .....
November 1950 ..........
December 1950 .......... .....
January 1951 ............ .....
1951 ........... .....
1951 ........... .....

$320.00
400.00
980.00
990.00
315.00
(80.00)
100.00
10,620.00
965.00)
3,815.00) $11,960.00
7,180.00)

total $25,784.00
Exhibit No. 2 is described as a ledger containing, among other
records, the Mayflower-St. Paul general journal March 31, 1951, to
January 31, 1952, and general ledger February 1, 1951, to January
31, 1952.
Exhibit No. 3 is described as the Mayflower-St. Paul journal
February 1, 1946, to January 31, 1953.
Exhibit No. 4 is described as the check register for Mayflower-St.
Paul July 1, 1946, to January 31, 1955. Its contents are described
as relating to purchases of used slot machines.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner contends that his testimony that he attempted, in good faith, to comply with the subpoenas
disproves the existence of any wilful default, and presents an "adequate excuse" for his failure to comply
under Rule 17 (g), Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
However, his protestations of good faith were subject to
appraisal by the court that heard them. It was the
judge of his credibility and of the weight to be given
to his testimony. Lopiparo v. United States, 216 F.
2d 87. 91. In our view, the trial court had a sufficient basis for concluding that petitioner intentionally,
and without "adequate excuse," defied the court.9 We,
therefore, agree that the record sustains petitioner's conviction for criminal contempt under specification No. 3.
Petitioner claims that he was not allowed adequate
time to prepare his defense. Under the circumstances of
this case and in view of the wide discretion on such matters properly vested in the trial court, we think this
claim is unfounded. 1°
Petitioner also contends that, as a matter of law, this
contempt proceeding should have been heard by a judge
other than the one who initiated the proceeding. Rule
42 (b), Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, does not
require disqualification of the trial judge except where
9 Whether proof of a lesser species of intent will satisfy the requirements for a conviction of criminal contempt need not be decided
here. See, generally, Moskovitz, Contempt of Injunctions, Civil and
Criminal, 43 Col. L. Rev. 780, 793-796 (1943) ; Note, The Intent
Element in Contempt of Injunctions, Decrees and Court Orders, 48
Mich. L. Rev. 860, 864-869 (1950).
10 Petitioner was an attorney familiar with the case. He appeared
in answ er to the subpoenas on April 1; after the impounded records
were produced, he was, on April 15, warned not to leave the jurisdiction of the court; the order for him to show cause why he should
not be held in criminal contempt was issued on April 23, returnable
on April 27; and on April 27 his hearing was postponed five hours
to give his counsel extra time to examine the impounded records.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
BLACK,

1., dissenting.

352 U. S.

"the contempt charged involves disrespect to or criticism
of a judge . . . ." " Concededly, the contempt here
charged was not of that kind. And while there may be
other cases, brought under Rule 42 (b), in which it is
the better practice to assign a judge who did not preside
over the case in which the alleged contumacy occurred to
hear the contempt proceeding, such an assignment is discretionary. In the absence of a showing of an abuse of
that discretion, petitioner's conviction on specification
No. 3 should be sustained.
There remains a question as to petitioner's general sentence. It was imposed following his conviction on each
of the three original specifications. Although the Government now undertakes to sustain but one of the convictions, it contends that petitioner's sentence should be
left as it is because it was within the trial court's allowable
discretion. We believe, however, that the court should
be given an opportunity to reconsider petitioner's sentence in view of the fact that his conviction now rests
solely on the third specification."
Accordingly, petitioner's conviction for criminal contempt on specification No. 3 is affirmed but his sentence
is vacated and the case is remanded to the District Court
for reconsideration of his sentence.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

with whom

and MR.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE,

JUSTICE BRENNAN

join,

dissenting.
This conviction for criminal contempt should be reversed and the case should be remanded to the District
Court with directions that it be tried before some district
judge other than the one who preferred the charges against
11See note 5, supra.
12

Cf. Yasui v. United States, 320 U. S.115, 117; Husty v. United

States, 282 U. S.694, 703.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

the petitioner and then convicted him. There have probably been few cases in the annals of this Court where the
proceedings below were afflicted with so many flagrant
errors. The Government has confessed most of these
errors, but contends that enough can be salvaged from the
record to sustain the conviction.
Petitioner, who is a lawyer, was a vice president of the
Mayflower Distributing Company. Apparently he served
largely as a nominal officer and performed only minor
functions for this company. He was indicted with the
president of the company and another man on a charge
that they had conspired unlawfully to transport gambling
devices in interstate commerce. A jury acquitted petitioner but failed to reach a verdict on the charge against
the other two defendants. Subsequently a new trial was
ordered for these two defendants. Prior to this new trial,
the Government procured the issuance of two very broad
subpoenas that directed the Mayflower Distributing Company to produce a large number of its corporate records,
which the Government anticipated might show illegal
transactions in interstate commerce. These subpoenas
were served on the company's secretary but since he
was occupied elsewhere he asked the petitioner to produce the material demanded by the subpoenas. On
rather short notice petitioner produced a substantial number of records in compliance with these orders.
However, the Government, believing that all of the
company's records called for by the subpoenas had not
been produced, examined petitioner under oath before
the trial judge in an effort to determine the extent of
his compliance. Petitioner testified that he had produced as many of the records demanded as he could locate
by a diligent search; nevertheless the trial judge ordered
that all of the company's records be impounded. Government agents took charge of these impounded records
and examined them. The Government claims that this
404165 0-57--32

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

material included books and documents called for by the
subpoenas but not produced by the petitioner.
The trial judge issued an order under Rule 42 (b) of
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure for petitioner
to show cause why he should not be held in criminal
contempt of the court. This charge of contempt was
based on three specifications: (1) that petitioner had
testified falsely and evasively when asked under oath
whether he had produced all the materials called for by
the subpoenas; (2) that he had failed to comply with
the first subpoena by not producing five items; and
(3) that he had disobeyed the second subpoena by failing
to produce twenty-two items. Four days after this order
was issued, a hearing on the contempt charge was held
before the same trial judge who sat in the retrial of
the two other defendants and who preferred the charge
against the petitioner. The judge found petitioner guilty
on all three specifications of contempt and sentenced him
to one year and one day imprisonment. The Court of
Appeals affirmed the judgment.1
The Government confesses that the conviction on the
first two specifications of contempt cannot be sustained.
As it concedes, there was not only insufficient, evidence to
support the charges made in these specifications but the
trial court admitted and relied on evidence which was
clearly incompetent. In addition, petitioner was denied
his constitutional right to confront and cross-examine
witnesses whose testimony was used against him. And
in regard to the first specification alleging false and
evasive testimony under oath, petitioner's conduct, at
most, only involved perjury, a crime that cannot be punished by use of the contempt power.2 Nevertheless, the
Government would have us uphold the conviction and
1 227
2

F. 2d 74.
In re Michael, 326 U. S. 224.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

sentence below on the basis of the finding of guilt on the
third specification alone, the alleged failure to comply
with the second subpoena.
A fundamental premise of our criminal law is that
the prosecution has the burden of proving beyond a
reasonable doubt that the accused committed the offense
charged. And this Court has repeatedly emphasized that
a prosecution for criminal contempt should be treated the
same as any other criminal prosecution in this respect.3
Before petitioner could be found guilty of criminal
contempt for failing to comply with a subpoena, the
prosecution had the burden of showing beyond a reasonable doubt that he intentionally refused to obey the
court's order by not producing the materials demanded
even though they were available to him. In this case the
record does not contain enough competent evidence for
the trier of fact to find that petitioner intentionally
refused to comply with the second subpoena or even that
the books and documents demanded by that subpoena
were available to him.
Only four of the twenty-two documents referred to in
the third specification were introduced in evidence and, as
3 E. g., MichaeIson v. United States ex rel. Chicago, St. P.. M. & 0.
R. Co., 266 U. S. 42, 66 ("In criminal contempts, as in criminal cases,
the presumption of innocence obtains. Proof of guilt must be beyond
reasonable doubt . . ...
"); Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co.,
221 U. S. 418, 444 ("Without deciding what may be the rule in civil
contempt, it is certain that in proceedings for criminal contempt the
defendant is presumed to be innocent, he must be proved to be guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt.
...
).
See also United States ex rel. Porter v. Kroger Grocery & Baking
Co., 163 F. 2d 168, 172. ("[W]e have examined the authorities with
a view of ascertaining the essential elements necessary to be alleged
and proven in order to justify a conviction for criminal contempt.
It is plain that a defendant is entitled to all the protection afforded
a defendant in nn ordina'ry criminal case and that the burden is upon
the government to establish his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.")

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

the Government recognizes, the conviction must rest on
petitioner's intentional refusal to produce these four documents. The only competent evidence in the record which
even tends to support an inference that petitioner knew
the location of any of these four documents or that they
were accessible to him was his comment that he had
"previously" examined two of them. But by itself this
solitary ambiguous fragment is clearly insufficient to
justify finding beyond a reasonable doubt that the records
were available to petitioner at the time when he was supposed to comply with the second subpoena. Since the
prosecution offered no admissible evidence at the trial,
this obscure remark constitutes the sole case on this point
against petitioner. It is the only shred of admissible
evidence that the majority has been able to glean from
the record. On the other hand, petitioner testified that
as far as he knew most of the company's records were
stored in the basement of its office and that he had made
a diligent search through these records in an effort to produce the material demanded by the subpoena. And he
was not the custodian of the company's records, but only
a nominal officer.
Similarly there was almost nothing before the trial
court which even suggested that petitioner intentionally
refused to produce the records demanded. He stated
under oath that he was not trained in accounting and
was not familiar with the company's accounting records.
The transcript of the record gives the following colloquy:
"Q. [By petitioner's counsel] Have you examined Respondent's
Exhibit 3? [Exhibit 3 was one of the four documents introduced in
4

evidence.]
"A. [By petitioner] Yes, sir, I have examined this record, as well
as the others, and from my examination-no, let me say, I examined
those other two records previously and was unable to find any evidence of slot machines-"
Petitioner's answer is ambiguous. It does not indicate where or when
the prior examination took place or under what conditions.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

He repeatedly testified that he had attempted in good
faith to comply with the subpoena. The Government
contends that a prima facie case of intentional refusal can
be made out circumstantially from such evidence as is
contained in the record. But since the competent evidence does not even support an inference that petitioner
knew the location of the four crucial documents or that
they were accessible to him, it is hard to see how an intentional refusal to obey can be implied at all, let alone
beyond a reasonable doubt.
The trial judge compounded his error in convicting
petitioner on such a striking insufficiency of competent evidence by relying on inadmissible hearsay statements which were not subject to cross-examination. The
Government introduced in evidence, over objection, a
transcript of an FBI agent's testimony at a prior trial
in which petitioner was not a party. The agent had testified that he found certain records and documents in
the company's offices. Apparently some of these were
papers that the second subpoena had ordered the Mayflower Company to produce. The FBI agent's testimony
together with certain statements by petitioner did furnish
some evidence that these papers were available to petitioner, but, as the Government confesses, this testimony
was plainly inadmissible.' Nevertheless the record indicates that the trial judge relied on it in finding petitioner
guilty. As a matter of fact he went so far as to say
". .. that in this proceeding there ought to be included
any pertinent part of the record or the files in the preceding case because this contempt proceeding arose out
of the [petitioner's] actions [in refusing to comply with
a subpoena issued in the prior case]."
The judge's position was manifestly wrong. A trial for
criminal contempt is a proceeding wholly separate from
5 See In re Oliver, 333 U. S. 257, 273.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
BLACK, J.,

dissenting.

352 U. S.

any prior trial out of which the alleged contempt arose.'
A conviction for contempt in a Rule 42 (b) proceeding
must stand on the evidence properly introduced in that
proceeding. Where a trial judge bases his decision in
part on evidence which although material is inadmissible
the conviction cannot stand even though an appellate
court might conclude after expunging the bad evidence
that enough good remained to support the conviction.
The defendant is entitled to a decision by the trial judge
based on that judge's evaluation of the proper evidence.
It is no answer to say that the trial judge could have
found the defendant guilty solely on the good evidence.
He did not and the defendant is entitled to a retrial. The
danger of prejudice from inadmissible hearsay was particularly grave in this case since the admissible evidence
before the trial court was so grossly inadequate.7
The erroneous admission of portions of the record from
the earlier trial accentuated another impropriety in the
proceedings below. I believe that it is wrong in a Rule
42 (b) proceeding for the same judge who issued the
orders allegedly disobeyed and who preferred the charges
of contempt on his own initiative and based on his
own knowledge to sit in judgment on the accused. In
essence, this allows a man who already believes that
another person has disobeyed his command to act as both
prosecutor and judge in a proceeding to "decide" formally
whether that person disobeyed him and should be pun6 Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 444-446,
451; Hayes v. Fischer, 102 U. S. 121; New Orleans v. The Steamship
Co., 20 Wall. 387; Ex parte Kearney,'7 Wheat. 38.
7In its footnote 6 the majority states that the four documents
introduced in evidence speak for themselves. It is not clear what
the majority means by this statement, The mere fact that they were
before the trial court does not tend to show that their location was
known to petitioner or that they were available to him. At most
it only shows that they were in existence at the trial and permits an
inference that they existed somewhere previously.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

ished. It is contrary to elemental principles of justice to
place such power in the hands of any man.8 At the very
least another judge should be called upon to try the contempt charges. Here, besides issuing the orders allegedly
disobeyed and then citing petitioner for contempt, the
trial judge was intimately involved in earlier proceedings
from which the contempt charge developed and in which
evidence relevant to that charge was presented. Under
such circumstances he would have been superhuman not
to have held preconceived views as to petitioner's guilt.
The record discloses several incidents which specifically
indicate that petitioner was not accorded a fair trial. At
the outset, the judge informed the petitioner that the
burden was on him to proceed. This is completely inconsistent with the presumption of innocence which exists
in favor of a person charged with criminal contempt.
Rather, the prosecutor carries the burden of establishing beyond a reasonable doubt that the alleged contemnor committed the offense charged.' The almost
total absence of any attempt by the Government to
introduce evidence at petitioner's trial in support of
S In In re Murchison, 349 U. S. 133, this Court held that it violated
due process for a' judge to try contempt charges which he had preferred while acting as a so-called one-man grand jury. The Court,
at pp. 136-137, declared:
"A fair trial in a fair tribunal is a basic requirement of due process.
Fairness of course requires an absence of actual bias in the trial of
cases. But our system of law has always endeavored to prevent
even the probability of unfairness. To this end no man can be a
judge in his own case and no man is permitted to try cases where he

has an interest in the outcome ....

Fair trials are too important

a part of our free society to let prosecuting judges be trial judges
of the charges they prefer."
In the present case we are not compelled to reach the question of
due process since this Court possesses general supervisory power over
the criminal procedures in lower federal courts.
9 See footnote 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

the accusations of contempt indicates that it relied on
the trial judge's personal knowledge of the case. And as
the majority points out several times the trial judge
repeatedly indicated prior to the trial that he believed
that petitioner was guilty of false and evasive testimony-the offense charged in the first specification of
contempt. There is nothing which suggests that he did
not have similar preconceived views on the other two
specifications.'" Surely every defendant is entitled to an
impartial trial by one who has not prejudged his case but
instead decides only on the evidence introduced at the
trial. Application of this simple principle is just as
necessary in contempt cases as in others.
Under Rule 42 (b) of the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure when the alleged contempt involves "disrespect
to or criticism of a judge" that judge shall be disqualified.
Rule 42 (b) contains no provision with respect to disqualification in other circumstances. The majority relies on
this silence to reject petitioner's contention that the trial
judge here should have stepped aside. But at most Rule
42 (b) only permits a negative inference that a judge who
prefers contempt charges for violations of his orders and
who is intimately involved in related proceedings bearing
on these charges can sit in judgment on the alleged contempt. In any event, Rule 42 (b) is a rule promulgated
by this Court and where it is not explicit we should not
interpret it in a manner to deny a fair trial before an
impartial arbiter. Even if the majority were correct in
saying that an "abuse of discretion" must be shown before
10 A further indication of the trial judge's attitude toward peti-

tioner is found in the "supplemental record" prepared by the Gov-

ermnent for the Court of Appeals. The judge is reported as stating at the conclusion of the contempt trial that had petitioner "been
a defendant in the [trial of his two alleged coconspirators] as it was
tried [tile second time], I don't think he would have been so
fortunate." The judge then imposed a harsh sentence on petitioner'.

NILVA v. UNITED STATES.
385

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

this Court will compel a judge to disqualify himself, the
record in this case clearly shows that it was an "abuse
of discretion" for the trial judge not to step aside.
If the preceding errors and improprieties are not
flagrant enough, the Court of Appeals contributed additional error by relying on a so-called "supplemental record" to affirm the conviction. This "supplemental record"
included material which was not introduced at the trial
and which was not even made a part of the record on
appeal by the trial judge. The Government now concedes
that it was improper for the appellate court to rely on this
material. But as its first opinion shows, the Court of
Appeals referred to the "supplemental record" to support
its conclusion that there was sufficient evidence for the
trial judge to find that the papers called for were available to petitioner, that he failed to produce them and that
this failure was in bad faith. And on rehearing the
Court of Appeals added still further error. After conceding that there were grave doubts about the admissibility of the FBI, agent's uncross-examined hearsay
statements, it nevertheless stated that the conviction was
not reversible because the contempt could have been prosecuted under the summary procedures of Rule 42 (a).
But as the Government points out, petitioner could not
conceivably have been convicted under that rule.
And there are even more matters tainting the proceedings below. For example, petitioner was rushed to trial
with an unduly short period to prepare his defense to
the contempt charge. He was informed of the specifications of contempt on a Friday and told to appear the next
Tuesday for trial. Since the subpoenas were extremely
broad and vague and the specifications involved a large
number of documents petitioner faced a formidable task
in preparing a defense. He had four days, over a weekend, to secure a lawyer and familiarize him with the case,
to examine a great volume of records, to talk with those

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

having relevant knowledge about these records and to
secure witnesses. And when at the trial his lawyer
requested a reasonable continuance, the judge gave only
a few hours respite.
This Court should not sanction a conviction where the
whole proceedings below were riddled with so many basic
errors of serious magnitude. Sending the case back for
a new sentence, even if it turns out to be a smaller one,
seems to me to fall far short of according this petitioner
the kind of justice every defendant has a right to expect
from our courts. While somehow there is an idea that
procedural safeguards required in other criminal trials
are not available in trials for criminal contempt, due
process certainly requires that one charged with such
contempt be given a fair trial before an impartial judge.
Here petitioner is to be deprived of his liberty and perhaps his professional career without having received that
essential prerequisite to justice.

