FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
Opinion of

521

DOUGLAS, J.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES, INC.
CERTIORARI

No. 59.

TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

Argued December 10, 1956.-Decided February 25, 1957.

Petitioner, an employee on a passenger ship of respondent, was
injured in the course of his employment while using a sharp butcher
knife to remove ice cream from a container in which it was frozen
hard. In an action under the Jones Act, under which the standard
of liability is that of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the
Federal District Court entered judgment on a jury verdict awarding damages to petitioner. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that a motion for a directed verdict for respondent should have
been granted. This Court granted certiorari. Held.: There was
sufficient evidence to take to the jury the question whether respondent was negligent in failing to furnish petitioner an adequate tool
with which to perform his task, and the judgment is reversed.
Pp. 521-524.
228 F. 2d 891, reversed.

George J. Engelman argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
William A. Wilson argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Wilbur E. Dow, Jr. and
Frederick Fish.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS announced the judgment of the
Court and an opinion in which THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR.
JUSTICE CLARK and MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN join.

Petitioner was injured in 1950 while serving as a second
baker on respondent's passenger ship Brazil. Among his
duties, he was required to fill orders of the ship's waiters
for ice cream. On the day of the accident, he had
received an order from a ship's waiter for 12 portions of
ice cream. When he got half way down in the two-and-

one-half-gallon ice-cream container from which he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

352 U. S.

filling these orders, the ice cream was so hard that it
could not be removed with the hemispherical scoop with
which he had been furnished. Petitioner undertook to
remove the ice cream with a sharp butcher knife kept
nearby, grasping the handle and chipping at the hard ice
cream. The knife struck a spot in the ice cream which
was so hard that his hand slipped down onto the blade of
the knife, resulting in the loss of two fingers of his right
hand.
Petitioner brought this suit under the Jones Act, 41
Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688, to recover for his injuries,
which were alleged to be the result of respondent's negligence. At the close of petitioner's case, respondent's
motion for a directed verdict was denied. Respondent
offered no evidence. After the jury returned a verdict
of $17,500 for the petitioner, respondent moved to set
aside the verdict. This motion was also denied and
judgment entered for the petitioner in accordance with
the jury verdict. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that it was "not within the realm of reasonable foreseeability" that petitioner would use the knife to chip
the frozen ice cream. 228 F. 2d 891, 892. We granted
certiorari. 351 U. S. 936.
We conclude that there was sufficient evidence to take
to the jury the question whether respondent was negligent in failing to furnish petitioner with an adequate tool
with which to perform his task.
Petitioner testified that the hard ice cream could have
been loosened safely with an ice chipper. He had used
such an instrument for that purpose on other ships. He
was not, however, furnished such an instrument. There
was evidence that the scoop with which he had been furnished was totally inadequate to remove ice cream of the
consistency of that which he had to serve. And, there
was evidence that its extremely hard consistency was
produced by the failure of another member of the crew

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

523

Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

to transfer it from the deep freeze to a tempering chest in
sufficient time to allow all of it to become disposable by
means of the scoop when the time came for it to be
served. There was no showing that any device was close
at hand which would have safely performed the task.
Finally, there was evidence that petitioner had been
instructed to give the waiters prompt service.
Respondent urges that it was not reasonably foreseeable that petitioner would utilize the knife to loosen the
ice cream. But the jury, which plays a pre-eminent role
in these Jones Act cases (Jacob v. New York City, 315
U. S.752; Schulz v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 350 U. S. 523),
could conclude that petitioner had been furnished no safe
tool to perform his task. It was not necessary that
respondent be in a position to foresee the exact chain of
circumstances which actually led to the accident. The
jury was instructed that it might consider whether
respondent could have anticipated that a knife would be
used to get out the ice cream. On this record, fairminded men could conclude that respondent should have
foreseen that petitioner might be tempted to use a knife
to perform his task with dispatch, since no adequate
implement was furnished him. See Schulz v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 350 U. S.523, 526. Since the standard of
liability under the Jones Act is that established by Congress under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, what we
said in Rogers v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., ante, p. 500,
decided this day, is relevant here:
"Under this statute the test of a jury case is simply
whether the proofs justify with reason the conclusion
that employer negligence played any part, even the
slightest, in producing the injury or death for which
damages are sought."
Because the jury could have so concluded, the Court
of Appeals erred in holding that respondent's motion for
a directed verdict should have been granted. "Courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

should not assume that in determining these questions of
negligence juries will fall short of a fair performance of
their constitutional function." Wilkerson v. McCarthy,
Reversed.
336 U. S 53, 62.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON concurs in

MR. JUSTICE REED

the result.

would affirm the judgment of the

Court of Appeals.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, dissenting.*

"The Federal Employers Liability Act gives to
railroad employees a somewhat liberalized right
of recovery for injuries on the job. A great number of cases under the Act have been brought to
the Supreme Court, many of them cases in
which the court of appeals had set aside, on the
evidence, verdicts for the employees. Despite
the human appeal of these cases, Brandeis never
allowed himself to regard them as the proper
business of the appellate jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court."
Paul A. Freund, The Liberalism of
Justice Brandeis, address at a meeting of
the American Historical Association in
St. Louis, December 28, 1956.
In so discharging his judicial responsibility, Mr. Justice
Brandeis did not disclose an idiosyncrasy in a great
judge. His attitude expressed respect for the standards
*[NoTE: This (issenting opinion applies also to No. 28, Roqers v.
Missouri Pacific R. Co., ante, p. 500: No. 42, Webb v. Illinois Central
R. Co., ante, p. 512: and No. 46-, Herdman v. Pennsglvania R. Co..

ante, p. 518.]

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

525

J., dissenting.

formulated by the Court in carrying out the mandate of
Congress regarding this Court's appellate jurisdiction in
cases arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
For he began his work on the Court' just after Congress
had passed the Act of September 6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726,
relieving the Court of its obligatory jurisdiction over
Federal Employers' Liability Act decisions by the highest
state courts and the Circuit Courts of Appeals. Mr. Justice Brandeis' general outlook on the formulation by the
Supreme Court of the public law appropriate for an
evolving society has more and more prevailed; his concept of the role of the Supreme Court in our judicial
system, and his consequent regard for the bearing on the
judicial product of what business comes to the Court
and how the Court deals with it, have often been neglected
in the name of "doing justice" in individual cases. To
him these were not technicalities, in the derogatory sense,
for the conduct of judicial business. He deemed wise
decisions on substantive law within the indispensable
area of the Court's jurisdiction dependent on a limited
volume of business and on a truly deliberative process.
One field of conspicuous disregard of these vital considerations is that large mass of cases under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act in which the sole issue is the
sufficiency of the evidence for submission to the jury.2
IHe formally took his seat on June 5, 1916 (241 U. S. iii), but
did not begin active participation in the Court's work until the
beginning of the October Term, 1916.
2 Throughout this opinion I have dealt with the issue of granting
certiorari in this type of case almost entirely in terms of the Federal Employers' Liability Act because the greatest abuse of the
certiorari policy has occurred in that field. The problem is not
confined to that Act, however, since the same or similar issues arise
under other Acts, such as the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007, the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U. S. C. §§ 1346 (b), 2671-2680, the Safety
Appliance Act, 27 Stat. 531, the Boiler Inspection Act, 45 U. S. C.
§ 22 et seq., the Suits in Admiralty Act, 46 U. S. C. § 741 et seq., and
404165 0-57---40

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

For many years, I reluctantly voted on the merits of these
negligence cases that had been granted review. In the
last ten years, and more particularly within the past few
years, as the Court has been granting more and more of
these petitions, I have found it increasingly difficult to
acquiesce in a practice that I regard as wholly incompatible with the certiorari policy embodied in the 1916 Act,
the Judiciary Act of 1925, 43 Stat. 936, and the Rules
formulated by the Court to govern certiorari jurisdiction for its own regulation and for the guidance of the
bar. I have therefore felt compelled to vote to dismiss
petitions for certiorari in such cases as improvidently
granted without passing on the merits.' In these cases I
indicated briefly the reasons why I believed that this
Court should not be reviewing decisions in which the sole
issue is the sufficiency of the evidence for submission
to the jury. In view of the increasing number of these
cases that have been brought here for review-this dissent is to four decisions of the Court-and in view of
the encouragement thereby given to continuing resort to
this Court, I deem it necessary to enlarge upon the considerations that have guided me in the conviction that
writs in this class of cases are "improvidently granted." 4
the Lucas Act, 60 Stat. 902 (see Buffalo Faultless Pants Co. v: United
States, 142 F. Supp. 594). Indeed, one of the decisions to which

this dissent is written, No. 59, arises under the Jones Act.

3Hill v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 336 U. S.911; Carter v.

Atlanta & St. A. B. R. Co., 338 U. S.430, 437; Affolder v. New
York, C. & St. L. R. Co., 339 U. S.96, 101; Moore v. Chesapeake
& 0. R.Co., 340 U. S.573, 578; Anderson v. Atlantic Coast Line R.
Co., 350 U. S.807. See McAllister v. United States, 348 U. S.19, 23
(Suits in Admiralty Act); Schulz v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 350 U. S.
523, 527 (Jones Act). See also Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U. S.53,

64; Reynolds v. Atlantic Coast Line R.Co., 336 U. S. 207, 209; Stone
v. New York, C. & St. L. R. Co., 344 U. S.407, 410.
4,"Improvidently granted" is a term of art simply meaning that

on full consideration it becomes manifest that the case is not the'

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

527

J., dissenting.

At the outset, however, I should deal briefly with a
preliminary problem. It is sometimes said that the
"integrity of the certiorari process" as expressed in the
"rule of four" (that is, this Court's practice of granting
certiorari on the vote of four Justices) requires all the
Justices to vote on the merits of a case when four Justices
have voted to grant certiorari and no new factor emerges
after argument and deliberation. There are two reasons
why there can be no such requirement. Last Term, for
example, the Court disposed of 1,361 petitions for certiorari. With such a volume of certiorari business, not to
mention the remainder of the Court's business, the initial
decision to grant a petition for certiorari must necessarily
be based on a limited appreciation of the issues in a case,
resting as it so largely does on the partisan claims in
briefs of counsel. See Furness, Withy & Co. v. Yang-Tsze
Ins. Assn., 242 U. S. 430, 434; Southern Power Co.
v. North CarolinaPublic Service Co., 263 U. S. 508, 509.
The Court does not, indeed it cannot and should not try
to, give to the initial question of granting or denying a
petition the kind of attention that is demanded by a decision on the merits. The assumption that we know no
more after hearing and deliberating on a case than
after reading the petition for certiorari and the response
is inadmissible in theory and not true in fact. Even an
FELA case sometimes appears in quite a different light
after argument than it appeared on the original papers.
Surely this must be acknowledged regarding one of
today's cases, No. 46, and see McCarthy v. Bruner, certiorari granted, 322 U. S. 718, certiorari dismissed, 323
U. S. 673. The course of argument and the briefs on
the merits may disclose that a case appearing on the
type of case that should have been brought here. The term is the
counterpart of the phrase "improvidently taken," as used by Congress
in 28 U. S. C. § 2103, governing appeals from state courts that are
improvidently taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

surface to warrant a writ of certiorari does not warrant
it, see Layne & Bowler Corp. v. Western Well Works, Inc.,
261 U. S. 387,1 or may reveal more clearly that the only
thing in controversy is an appraisal of facts on which this
Court is being asked to make a second guess, to substitute
its assessment of the testimony for that of the court below.
But there is a more basic reason why the "integrity of
the certiorari process" does not require me to vote on the
merits of these cases. The right of a Justice to dissent
from an action of the Court is historic. Of course selfrestraint should guide the expression of dissent. But
dissent is essential to an effective judiciary in a democratic society, and especially for a tribunal exercising the
powers of this Court. Not four, not eight, Justices can
require another to decide a case that he regards as not
properly before the Court. The failure of a Justice to
persuade his colleagues does not require him to yield to
their views, if he has a deep conviction that the issue is
sufficiently important. Moreover, the Court operates
ultimately by majority. Even though a minority may
bring a case here for oral argument, that does not mean
that the majority has given up its right to vote on the
ultimate disposition of the case as conscience directs.
This is not a novel doctrine. As a matter of practice,
members of the Court have at various times exercised
this right of refusing to pass on the merits of cases that in
their view should not have been granted review.
This does not make the "rule of four" a hollow rule.
I would not change the practice. No Justice is likely to
vote to dismiss a writ of certiorari as improvidently
granted after argument has been heard, even though he
has not been convinced that the case is within the
rules of the Court governing the granting of certiorari.
5 See discussion of this point in Rice v. Sioux City Cemetery, 349
U. S. 70, and cases there collected at p. 78, n. 2.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

529

J., dissenting.

In the usual instance, a doubting Justice respects the
judgment of his brethren that the case does concern
issues important enough for the Court's consideration
and adjudication. But a different situation is presented
when a class of cases is systematically taken for review.
Then a Justice who believes that such cases raise insignificant and unimportant questions-insignificant and
unimportant from the point of view of the Court's
duties--and that an increasing amount of the Court's
time is unduly drained by adjudication of these cases
cannot forego his duty to voice his dissent to the Court's
action.
'The "rule of four" is not a command of Congress. It
is a working rule devised by the Court as a practical mode
of determining that a case is deserving of review, the
theory being that if four Justices find that a legal question
of general importance is raised, that is ample proof that
the question has such importance. This is a fair enough
rule of thumb on the assumption that four Justices find
such importance on an individualized screening of the
cases sought to be reviewed. The reason for deference to
a minority view no longer holds when a class of litigation
is given a special and privileged position.
The history of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
reveals the continuing nature of the problem of review
by this Court of the vast litigation under that Act in both
the federal and state courts. The initial Federal Employers' Liability Act, 34 Stat. 232, was declared unconstitutional in the first Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463. The second Employers' Liability Act, 35
Stat. 65, drafted to meet the constitutional infirmity
found in the first Act, was sustained in the Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1. Under the
general statutory scheme of review of litigation by the
Supreme Court in force at that time, all cases arising

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, whether
coming from the state or federal courts, were reviewable
in the Supreme Court by writ of error, that is, as a matter
of right. After the constitutionality of the Act had been
sustained, cases began to flow to the Supreme Court and
within a few years the Court was threatened with an
avalanche of litigation under the Act. In the 1915 Term,
the Court delivered opinions in 19 cases involving an
assessment of the evidence to determine whether submission to the jury was warranted. See Appendices A
and B, and starred footnote to Appendix A, post, pp. 548,
549.
To relieve the Court of this burden of reviewing the
large volume of insignificant litigation under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act was one of the principal reasons
for passage of the Act of September 6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726.
See S. Rep. No. 775, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. R. Rep.
No. 794, 64th Cong., 1st Sess. In thus freeing the Court
from unrestricted access to it of cases that have no business here, Congress assimilated Federal Employers' Liability Act litigation to those other categories of casese. g., diversity, patent, admiralty, criminal cases-that
Congress had in 1891, 26 Stat. 826, 828, withdrawn from
this Court's obligatory jurisdiction. Believing review in
the state appellate systems or in the newly created Circuit
Courts of Appeals sufficient, it made the lower courts' decisions final also in this class of litigation in all but the
unusual cases raising significant legal questions. Thereafter such cases could be reviewed by the Supreme Court
only on certiorari to "secure uniformity of decision" between the Circuit Courts of Appeals and "to bring up cases
involving questions of importance which it is in the public
interest to have decided by this Court of last resort. The
jurisdiction was not conferred upon this Court merely to
give the defeated party in the Circuit Court of Appeals
another hearing. . . . These remarks, of course, apply

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

531

,1., dissenting.

also to applications for certiorari to review judgments and
decrees of the highest courts of States." Magnum Co. v.
Coty, 262 U. S.159; 163-164. (See also Hamilton,-Brown
Shoe Co. v. Wolf Brothers & Co., 240 U. S. 251, 257-258:
certiorari jurisdiction "is a jurisdiction to be exercised
sparingly, and only in cases of peculiar gravity and general
importance,-or in order to secure uniformity of decision.")
The statement for the Court by Mr. Chief Justice Taft
in the Coty case indicates the strict criteria governing
certiorari policy observed by the Court, except occasionally
in FELA cases, previous to the Act of 1925, by which Congress put the Court's docket for all practical purposes in
its own keeping. (For a more detailed history of the
origin of certiorari jurisdiction, see Frankfurter and
Landis, Business of The Supreme Court, cc. II,III, V,
and VII.)
THe vast extension of discretionary review by the Supreme Court on writ of certiorari contained in the Judges
Bill of 1925, 43 Stat. 936, led the Court to promulgate
formal rules, and not rely on admonitions in opinions,
regarding conditions under which petitions for certiorari
would be granted. The present Rule 19 of the Revised
Rules of the Supreme Court contains the substance of
the original Rule 35 (5) of the Revised Rules of 1925, 266
U. S.645, 681, and perhaps in view of the issue in these
cases it is not unwarranted to set forth the full text of
that rule:
"1. A review on writ of certiorari is not a matter
of right, but of sound judicial discretion, and will be
granted only where there are special and important
reasons therefor. The following, while neither controlling nor fully measuring the court's discretion,
indicate the character of reasons which will be
considered:
"(a) Where a state court has decided a federal
question of substance not theretofore determined by

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

this court, or has decided it in a way probably not in
accord with applicable decisions of this court.
"(b) Where a court of appeals has rendered a
decision in conflict with the decision of another court
of appeals on the same matter; or has decided an
important state or territorial question in a way in
conflict with applicable state or territorial law; or
has decided an important question of federal law
which has not been, but should be, settled by this
court; or has decided a federal question in a way in
conflict with applicable decisions of this court; or
has so far departed from the accepted and usual
course of judicial proceedings, or so far sanctioned
such a departure by a lower court, as to call for an
exercise of this court's power of supervision.
"2. The same general considerations outlined
above will control in respect of petitions for writs
of certiorari to review judgments of the Court of
Claims, of the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals,
or of any other court whose determinations are by
law reviewable on writ of certiorari."
Of course, cases raising questions that are not evidentiary, questions that fairly involve the construction or
scope of the statute are appropriate for review here. See,
e. g., Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v. Bombolis, 241 U. S.
211; Southern Pacific Co. v. Gileo, 351 U. S. 493; Reed v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 351 U. S. 502. But the ordinary
negligence case under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act does not satisfy the criteria that define the "special
and important reasons" when a writ of certiorari will be
granted, and this may perhaps best be appreciated by
summarizing the course of proceedings in each of the four
cases now before us.
In No. 28, the petitioner brought suit for damages,
alleging negligence on the part of respondent railroad in
providing an unsafe place to work and an unsafe method

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

533

J., dissenting.

for doing his work. Petitioner was engaged in burning
weeds on respondent's right of way with a hand torch.
He heard a whistle indicating an approaching train.
He ran thirty to thirty-five yards along the track from
the fire and, thinking himself far enough from the fire
danger, stood near a drainage culvert watching the passing
train for "hotboxes." The train caused the fire to come
"right up in [his] face." Petitioner backed away with
his arm over his face and fell down the incline of the
culvert. There was considerable testimony concerning
the circumstances of the accident, the methods of burning
weeds, the duties of railroad workers, the condition of
the right of way, in particular the condition of the culvert,
and petitioner's knowledge of those conditions. Respondent's motions for a directed verdict at the close of petitioner's case and at the close of all the evidence were
denied. The case was submitted to the jury, which
returned a verdict for petitioner.
On appeal, the Missouri Supreme Court reversed.
284 S. W. 2d 467.' Considering the evidence from a
standpoint most favorable to the petitioner, it held that
there was insufficient evidence of negligence on the part
of respondent, and that even if there were sufficient evidence of negligence, there was no evidence to show that
such negligence contributed to petitioner's injury.
In No. 42, petitioner brought suit for injuries suffered
as a result of respondent railroad's alleged failure to use
ordinary care in furnishing him with a reasonably safe
place to work. There was little dispute over the circumstances of the accident, which are set forth in the opinion
of the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, 228 F. 2d
257, 258:
"Plaintiff had been employed by defendant in
various capacities since about 1925 and was, on
July 2, 1952, when the accident occurred, working as
a brakeman, being assigned to the crew of a local

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

freight run between the cities of East St. Louis and
Clinton, Illinois. During the course of his duties,
in a switching operation at Mount Olive, he noticed
that a wheat car in the train was leaking. While the
other crew members continued with the task of picking up cars to be incorporated into the train, he
started back to the caboose to get some waste to plug
the hole in the leaking car. He turned and, on the
first step he took, tripped and fell with his left leg
buckled under him. He thereby sustained a serious
injury to his left kneecap. The accident occurred on
the roadbed of defendant's 'house track' at a point
about one foot from the end of the ties. After
plaintiff fell, he looked to see what had caused him
to fall and saw a clinker 'about the size of my fist'
which was partly out of the ground, and a hole beside
the clinker. . . . Plaintiff stated that he looked 'at
the ground' before he stepped but did not see the
clinker. He stated further that the footing on the
roadbed looked level but was a little soft."
Defendant's motions for a directed verdict at the close
of petitioner's case and at the close of all the evidence
were denied, and the jury returned a verdict for petitioner. The Court of Appeals reversed. It held that
the possibility that "defendant placed the clinker in its
roadbed as a part of the ballast used in the repair operation is merely one of several possibilities present. A
finding that it did so can rest on nothing but speculation."
The Court of Appeals also stated that "there is a total
want of evidence as to what constitutes reasonable
prudence under the proved circumstances," and that
the record "is equally lacking in evidence to prove
that defendant had actual or cdnstructive notice of the
dangerous condition." Id., at 259, 260. "'
In No. 46, petitioner appealed to the Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit from a directed verdict for respond-

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

535

J., dissenting.

ent railroad. He gave the only testimony with respect
to the accident and testified that, while the train was proceeding slowly, it made a sudden stop which threw him
to the floor of the caboose where he was riding. The
official report of the accident, which he signed, stated that
the stop was made to avoid striking an automobile at a
grade crossing. Petitioner gave some further testimony
about the operation of air brakes, the frequency of emergency braking in his experience, and other methods of
slowing down the train than by emergency braking. On
this record, the Court of Appeals found a complete absence
of probative facts to warrant submission of the case to
the jury, and it affirmed the judgment of the District
Court. 228 F. 2d 902.
No. 59 was an appeal under the Jones Act, 41 Stat.
1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688, whose standard of liability is explicitly that of the Federal Employers' Liability Act in
this type of case; this case therefore presents the same
problem for the Court as the other three. Petitioner had
obtained a judgment, which was reversed by the Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit for failure of proof
of negligence. The facts and reasons for reversal are set
forth in the opinion of that court:
"Plaintiff was a baker engaged at the time of the
accident in serving ice cream in the galley on C deck
of defendant's SS Brazil. Using the standard ice
cream scoop provided for the purpose, plaintiff disposed of the contents of a half used tub and had
worked his way about half way down a full additional
tub. There he found the ice cream 'as hard as a
brickbat,' and the scoop became useless. So it occurred to plaintiff that about a foot and a half from
where he was serving and 'kept underneath the griddle' was a butcher knife, about eighteen inches long
and as sharp as a razor, which might be used to chip
the ice cream into small pieces. He was chipping

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

away when his hand slipped and he was badly cut,
resulting later in the loss of two fingers of his right
hand.
"... The negligence [of defendant] is supposed
to stein from a failure to provide a safe place to work
and safe tools and appliances. Reliance is also placed
upon the fact that plaintiff had been directed to fill
the orders brought into the galley by the waiters and
it is said that there must have been something wrong
with the refrigeration system or the ice cream would
not have been so hard.
"But no one in authority told plaintiff to use the
butcher knife, which was customarily used in cutting
French bread. The knife was properly in the galley
and there was nothing defective about it. But it
was never designed for or intended to be used as a
dagger or ice pick for chipping frozen ice cream. And
that it would be put to such use was not within the
realm of reasonable foreseeability . ...
"There being no proof of fault on the part of the
shipowner, defendant's motion for a directed verdict
should have been granted." 228 F. 2d 891.
In all good conscience, what "special and important"
reason for granting certiorari do the facts in any one of
these cases disclose? In three of them, the trial judge
had allowed a case to go to the jury, and three unanimous
reviewing courts-two Courts of Appeals and one state
Supreme Court-had reversed for lack of evidence. In
each of these cases, this Court has combed the record and
found that there was sufficient evidence for the case to
go to the jury, although in No. 28 the Court found evidence of negligence in the fact that "[c]ommon experience" teaches "that a passing train will fan the flames of a
fire," whereas in No. 46 the Court found insufficiency of
evidence to go to the jury because "there is no evidence to

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTR,

537

J., dissenting.

show that unscheduled and sudden stops of trains are
unusual or extraordinary occurrences." In No. 46, the
Court therefore affirms the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, which had affirmed the direction of a verdict for
defendant.
In any event, the Court in these four cases has merely
reviewed evidence that has already been reviewed by two
lower courts, and in so doing it ignores its own strictures
to the bar that "We do not grant a certiorari to review
evidence and discuss specific facts." United States v.
Johnston, 268 U. S. 220, 227. See also Houston Oil Co.
v. Goodrich, 245*U. S. 440; Southern Power Co. v. North
CarolinaPublic Service Co., 263 U. S. 508; General Talking Pictures Corp. v. Western Electric Co., 304 U. S. 175,
178. Constant complaints have been made by successive
Chief Justices about the large number of frivolous petitions that are filed each Term, "frivolous" meaning that
the issues are not deserving of consideration for review
when judged by the Court's instructions to the bar. See
the remarks of Chief, Justice Taft, in 35 Yale L. J. 1, 3-4;
Chief Justice Hughes, in 20 A. B. A. J. 341; Chief Justice
Vinson, in 69 S. Ct. v, vI-vii. If the Court does not abide
by its Rules, how can it expect the bar to do so? Standards must be enforced to be respected. If they are
merely left as something on paper, they might as well be
written on water.
The rule that the Court does not grant certiorari to
review evidence is a wise rule, indeed indispensable to the
work of the Court, and is as equally applicable to negligence cases as to any other type of case. Perhaps a word
should be said about the basis of the cause of action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Liability
under the Act is based on negligence.6 As far as the sub6 The attempts to substitute a workmen's compensation law are
detailed in Miller, The Quest for a Federal Workmen's Compensation Law, 18 Law and Contemporary Problems 188.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

stantive cause of action is concerned, this is the historic
cause of action for negligence as it has developed from
the common law. It involves the same general concept
on which is based every "negligence case" in the state
courts and in the multitudinous cases in the federal courts
on diversity of citizenship in which the question is merely
one of common-law negligence; that is, it is the familiar
type of litigation that is part of the day-to-day business
of state and federal trial judges.
The 1908 Act denied the railroads the benefit of certain common-law defenses and the 1939 amendment, 53
Stat. 1404, abolished the defense of assumption of risk,
but the fact that a right to recover is not barred by what
theretofore was a defense does not change the basis of the
right. This has been recognized in the opinions of this
Coupt in which it has reversed lower courts on the question of the sufficiency of the evidence. The Court has
never intimated that the concept of negligence, undefined
in the statute, has some special or esoteric content as used
in the Act or is anything other than a statutory absorption of the common-law concept.'
"One's deep sympathy is of course aroused by a victim
of the hazards of negligence'litigation in situations like the
one before us.' But the remedy for an obsolete and uncivilized system of compensation for loss of life or limb
of crews on ships and trains is not intermittent disregard.
of the considerations which led Congress to entrust this
Court with the discretion of certiorari jurisdiction. The
remedy is an adequate and effective system of workmen's
7See, e. g., Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U. S. 53, 69: "The basis of
liability under the Act is and remains negligence." (Concurring opinion of DOUCLAS, J.) To be sure, on the question of causality, the
statute has tried to avoid issues about "sole proximate cause," meeting
the requirement of a causal relation with the language that the injury
must result "in whole or in part" from the employer's negligence.
See, e. g., Illinois Central R. Co. v. Skaggs, 240 U. S.66, 69-70.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

539

J., dissenting.

compensation," adequate in amount and especially prompt
in administration. McAllister v. United States, 348 U. S.
19, 23-24 (separate opinion). It deserves to be recorded
that Professor John Chipman Gray, a legal scholar with
social insight, taught his students fifty years ago, before
the first workmen's compensation law had been enacted,
that it is anachronistic to apply the common-law doctrine
of negligence to injuries suffered by railroad employees
rather than have society recognize such injuries as inevitable incidents of railroading and provide compensation on
that basis. The persistence of this archaic and cruel system is attributable to many factors. Inertia of course.
But also it is merely one illustration of the lag of reform
because of the opposition of lawyers who resist change of
the familiar, particularly when they have thriven under
some outworn doctrine of law. 8 Finally, one cannot acquit
the encouragement given by this Court for seeking success
in the lottery of obtaining heavy verdicts of contributing
to the continuance of this system of compensation whose
8 See Elihu Root's address to the American Bar Association in

1914: "Lawyers are essentially conservative. They do not take
kindly to change. They are not naturally reformers. Their time
is occupied mainly in thinking and arguing about what the law of
the particular case is; about what the facts of the case are. The
most successful lawyers are, as a rule, continually engrossed in their
own cases and they have little time and little respect for the speculative and hypothetical. The lawyers who have authority as leaders
of opinion are men, as a rule, who have succeeded in their profession,
and men naturally tend to be satisfied with the conditions under
which they are succeeding." Root, Addresses on Government and
Citizenship, 479, 484. See also Gibson, The Venue Clause and Transportation of Lawsuits, 18 Law and Contemporary Problems 367, for
some statistics bearing on the interest of lawyers in the continuance
of the present system. The author cites the example of one specialist
in personal injury litigation whose administrator collected a minimum
of $1,111,935 in fees from 150 lawsuits pending at the date of the
lawyer's death.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

essential injustice can hardly be alleviated by the occasional "correction" in this Court of ill-success.
Rather than paraphrase, I shall repeat what I have
already said about negligence cases and certiorari policy
in Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U. S. 53, 64, 66: "Considering the volume and complexity of the cases which
obviously call for decision by this Court, and considering
the time and thought that the proper disposition of such
cases demands, I do not think we should take cases merely
to review facts already canvassed by two and sometimes
three courts even though those facts may have been
erroneously appraised. The division in this Court would
seem to demonstrate beyond peradventure that nothing
is involved in this case except the drawing of allowable
inferences from a necessarily unique set of circumstances.
For this Court to take a case which turns merely on such
an appraisal of evidence, however much hardship in the
fallible application of an archaic system of compensation
for injuries to railroad employees' may touch our private
sympathy, is to deny due regard to the considerations
which led the Court to ask and Congress to give the power
to control the Court's docket. Such power carries with
it the responsibility of granting review only in cases that
demand adjudication on the basis of importance to the
operation of our federal system; importance of the outcome merely to the parties is not enough. . . ." See also
Carter v. Atlanta & St. A. B. R. Co., 338 U. S. 430, 437;
McAllister v. United States, 348 U. S. 19, 23.
The Court finds justification for granting certiorari in
an alleged conflict of these decisions of the Courts of
Appeals for the Second, Sixth, and Seventh Circuits and
the Supreme Court of Missouri with the applicable deci9An archaic system, I might add, that encourages pursuit of big
verdicts in individual cases, a preoccupation that has attained the
dignity of full documentation of sensational methods by which a
jury's feelings may be exploited.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

541

J., dissenting.

sions of this Court. All that can fairly be said is that these
courts found that there was not evidence to bring these
cases within the recognized rules for submitting a case
to the jury. In none of them is there any intimation or
atmospheric indication of unwillingness to enforce the
governing rules of the Act as laid down by this Court.
These rules are well known. That there should be differences of opinion in their application is almost inevitable.10 But once Congress in 1916 commanded that the
ordinary Federal Employers' Liability Act case, like other
essentially private litigation, should reach a final decision
in the Courts of Appeals or the state appellate tribunals,
this Court should never have granted certiorari to assess
the evidence in any of them." I would not continue a
bad practice to aid a few plaintiffs because there was once
a bad practice that aided a few defendants. One still
does not commit two wrongs to "do right."
This is not the supreme court of review for every case
decided "unjustly" by every court in the country. The
10

"If there were a bright line dividing negligence from non-negli-

gence, there would be no problem. Only an incompetent or a wilful
judge would take a case from the jury when the issue should be
left to the jury. But since questions of negligence are questions of
degree, often very nice differences of degree, judges of competence
and conscience have in the past, and will in the future, disagree
as to whether proof in a case is sufficient to demand submission to
the jury. The fact that a third court thinks there was enough to
leave the case to the jury does not indicate that the other two courts
were unmindful of the jury's function. The easy but timid way out
for a trial judge is to leave all cases tried to a jury for jury determination, but in so doing he fails in his duty to take a case from the jury
when the evidence would not warrant a verdict by it. A timid judge,
like a biased judge, is intrinsically a lawless judge." Wilkerson v.
McCarthy, 336 U. S. 64, 65 (concurring).
11 Any notion that the practice of directing verdicts offends the
Seventh Amendment w~s laid to rest in Galloway v. United States,
319 U. S. 372.
404165 0-57-

41

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

Court's practice in taking these Federal Employers'
iability Act cases discriminates against other personal
injury cases, for example those in the federal courts on
diversity jurisdiction. Similar questions of negligence
are involved there and the opportunity for swallowing up
more of the Supreme Court's energy is very great indeed.
While 1,332 cases were commenced under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act in the Federal District Courts in
the fiscal year 1956 and 2,392 cases under the Jones Act,
11,427 personal injury cases were begun under the diversity jurisdiction in the District Courts. Annual Report
of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts-1956, pp. 52-53. The Court may well
have had this discrimination in mind when it granted certiorari in the diversity case of Gibson v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 352 U. S.874, and decided it on the merits. A
few more such decisions and a flood of petitions from this
source may confidently be expected. Whether or not it
be true that we are a litigious people, it is a matter of
experience that clients, if not lawyers, have a strong urge
to exhaust all possibility of further appeal, particularly
when judicially encouraged to do so. Disappointed litigants and losing lawyers like to have another go at it, and
why should they not try when certiorari was granted in
cases like these?
It is not enough, however, to deal with this problem
on an 'abstract, theoretical basis. The statistical history
of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, as set forth in
the tables in the appendices to this opinion, gives concrete
evidence of the recurring nature of the problem and the
time-consuming nature of the litigation. In the early
years of the Act, when review by this Court was on writ
of error, there was a large number of cases in which sufficiency of evidence was at issue. Contrary to general
belief, however, employees fared well in this type of case.
Of the 42 cases decided by the Court raising that issue,

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

543

J., dissenting.

a judgment for the plaintiff was reversed for evidentiary
reasons in only three cases and a judgment for the defendant railroad upheld in only seven. In the other 32 cases,
judgments for plaintiffs were affirmed or judgments for
defendants reversed.
Once easy access to this Court was shut off by the discretionary power of review over these cases that was given
to the Court in 1916, few FELA decisions were rendered,
and only four, of which one was on writ of error, dealing
with the sufficiency of the evidence, in the five-year
period covered by the 1918 through the 1922 Terms.
During the next ten years, however, the Court concerned
itself more and more with the Act, but during this era the
railroads tended to prevail. Thirty-five decisions were
rendered from the 1923 Term through the 1932 Term.
In 27 of these a judgment for a plaintiff was reversed for
evidentiary reasons; in another the Court affirmed the
reversal of a judgment for a plaintiff; and in another the
Court reversed the reversal of a directed verdict for a
railroad. (For a review of certiorari policy under the
FELA during this period, see Frankfurter and Landis,
Business of the Supreme Court at October Term, 1931,
46 Harv. L. Rev. 226, 240-253.)
Thereafter, during the remaining eight Terms of Mr.
Chief Justice Hughes, the number of sufficiency-of-theevidence cases under the Act that were granted review fell
off considerably. Only seven decisions were rendered
during that period. The next nine-year period, however,
saw a large increase again, with 27 decisions during the
1941 through 1949 Terms. Unlike the previous experience with the Act, it was not efforts of railroads seeking to
reverse judgments in favor of injured workers that constituted the major portion of the business during this
period, but rather efforts by injured workers to upset
judgments for railroads. And they were 'successful.
Judgments for railroads were sustained in only four

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

cases. In all the others, the Court reversed a judgment
of a lower court that either had reversed a jury verdict
for a plaintiff or had affirmed a judgment for a railroad.
In the following four Terms, business again slackened
and only two cases concerning sufficiency of the evidence
were decided under the Act. We now seem to have
entered again on a period of renewed activity by the
Court in this field. Two decisions were rendered in the
1954 Term, three in the 1955 Term, four thus far this
Term, and two additional petitions for certiorari have
already been granted this Term.
A further indication of the tendency in recent Court
decisions is provided by a study of petitions for certiorari in FELA cases from the 1938 through the 1954
Terms. This study disclosed that of the 260 petitions
filed, sufficiency of the evidence of negligence or of causation for submission to the jury was the predominant question in 149. Seventy-eight of these petitions were filed by
the employee and all of the 37 granted petitions were
from this group, except one in which the writ was
later dismissed as improvidently granted. McCarthy v.
Bruner, certiorari granted, 322 U. S. 718, certiorari dismissed, 323 U. S. 673. Certiorari Policy in FELA
Cases, 69 Harv. L. Rev. 1441, 1445-1446.
These figures tell only a small part of the story. While
this opinion concerns itself principally with cases under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the same kind of
question arises under many other statutes. See footnote
2, supra. And experience leaves no doubt, though the
fact cannot be established statistically, that by granting
review in these cases, the Court encourages the filing
of petitions for certiorari in other types of cases raising
issues that likewise have no business to be brought here.
Moreover, the considerations governing discharge of the
Court's function involve only in part quantitative factors. Finally, and most important, granting review in

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

545

J., dissenting.

one or two cases that present a compassionate appeal on
this ground and one or two that present a compassionate
appeal on that ground and one or two that present a compassionate appeal on a third ground inevitably makes that
drain upon the available energy of the Court that is so
inimical to the fullest investigation of, the amplest deliberation on, the most effective opinion-writing and the
most critical examination of draft opinions in, the cases
that have unquestioned claims upon the Court.
It is impossible to read the 106 written opinions of the
Supreme Court dealing with this type of issue, see Appendices A and B, without feeling that during different
periods the Court, while using the same generalities in
speaking about the relation of judge and jury to the cause
of action for negligence, has applied those principles differently from time to time to the facts of different cases.
The divided-views on this Court today with respect to the
application of those principles merely reflect the divided
views of state and federal judges throughout the country
on problems of negligence. As long as there is a division
of functions between judge and jury, there will be division of opinion concerning the correctness of trial judges'
actions in individual cases. But since the law obviously
does not remain "settled" in this field very long, one does
not have to be a prophet to be confident that the Court,
if it continues its present certiorari policy, will one day
return to its attitude of the 1920's in these individual
cases. With a changed membership, the Court might
tomorrow readily affirm all four of the cases that it decides
today. There is nothing in the Federal Employers' Liability Act to say which view is correct. The Act expressed
a social policy, and it expressed that policy in terms of a
familiar, but elusively inapt, common-law cause of action.
It is suggested in effect that the history of FELA litigation
in this Court reveals a shift in mood, philosophy if one
pleases, towards the Federal Employers' Liability Act-

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

that at one time the chief concern may be lively regard for
-what are conceived to be unfair inroads upon the railroads'
exchequer 12 while at another period the preoccupation
may be with protection of employees and their families, so
far as money damages can do so, against the inherent
hazards of their indispensable labor. Be that as it may,
the desire to engraft a philosophy, either philosophy, upon
an outmoded, unfair system of liability should not lead
the Court to bend the rules by which it is governed in
other cases in the exercise of its discretionary jurisdiction.
This unvarnished account of Federal Employers' Liability Act litigation in this Court relating to sufficiency
of the evidence for submission of cases to the jury is surely
not an exhilatating story. For the Supreme Court of
the United States to spend two hours of solemn argument,
plus countless other hours reading the briefs and record
and writing opinions, to determine whether there was evidence to support an allegation that it could reasonably be
foreseen that an ice-cream server on a ship would use a
butcher's knife to scoop out ice cream that was too hard
to be scooped with a regular scoop, is surely to miscon-'
ceive the discretion that was entrusted to the wisdom of
the Court for the control of its calendar. The Court may
or may not be "doing justice" in the four insignificant
cases it decides today; it certainly is doing injustice to
the significant and important cases on the calendar and
to its own role as the supreme judicial body of the country.
It is, I believe, wholly accurate to say that the Court
will be enabled to discharge adequately the vital, and,
I feel, the increasingly vital, responsibility it bears for the
"The cause is one of a peculiar class where we have frequently
been obliged to give special consideration to the facts in order to protect interstate carriers against unwarranted judgments and enforce
observance of the Liability Act as here interpreted." Atchison,
T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Saxon, 284 U. S. 458, 459.
12

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

FRANKFURTER,

547

J., dissenting.

general welfare only if it restricts its reviewing power to
the adjudication of constitutional issues or other questions of national importance, including therein settlement
of conflict among the circuits. Surely it was this conviction, born of experience, that led the Court to ask of
Congress that of the great mass of litigation in the state
and federal courts only those cases should be allowed to
be brought here that this Court deemed fit for review.
Such was the jurisdictional policy accepted by Congress
when it yielded to the Court's realization of the conditions necessary for its proper functioning.
For one thing, as the current United States Reports
compared with those of even a generation ago amply
prove, the types of cases now calling for decision to a
considerable extent require investigation of voluminous
literature far beyond the law reports and other legal
writings. If it is to yield its proper significance, this
vast mass of materials, often confused and conflicting,
must be passed through the sieve of reflection. Judicial
reflection is a process that requires time and freedom from
the pressure of having more work to do than can be well
done. It is not a bit of quixotism to believe that, of the
63 cases scheduled for argument during the remaining
months of this Term, there are a half dozen that could
alone easily absorb the entire thought of the Court for the
rest of the Term.
The judgments of this Court are collective judgments.
Such judgments are especially dependent on ample time
for private study and reflection in preparation for discussion in Conference. Without adequate study, there cannot be adequate reflection; without adequate reflection,
there cannot be adequate discussion; without adequate
discussion, there cannot be that full and fruitful interchange of minds that is indispensable to wise decisions and
persuasive opinions by the Court. Unless the Court
vigorously enforces its own criteria for granting review of

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.

Appendix A to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

cases, it will inevitably face an accumulation of arrears.or
will dispose of its essential business in too hurried and
therefore too shallow a way.
I would dismiss all four writs of certiorari as improvidently granted.
[For opinion of MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, see post, p. 559.]
APPENDIX A.
DECISIONs RELATING TO SUFFICIENCY OF THE EVIDENCE
UNDER THE FELA, TERM BY TERM.*

1911 ............ 1
1912 ............ 2
1913 ............ 4
1914 ............ 4
1915 ............ 19
1916 ............ 6
1917 ............ 5

1918 ............
1919 ............
1920 ............
1921 ............
1922 ............
1923 ............
1924 ............

1
2
1
0
0
3*
2

*This table restricts itself to decisions on the sufficiency of the
evidence relating to the substantive cause of action for submission to
the jury. It does not take into account other sufficiency-of-the-evidence cases, e. g., was an employee engaged in interstate commerce,
that raise somewhat different problems but are all too often also outside the appropriate bounds of certiorari jurisdiction.
In some of the cases resulting in an affirmance of a judgment for
an employee, sufficiency of the evidence was only one of the questions
considered. It is impossible to ascertain why certiorhri was granted,
but these cases are included in the table because the Court did not
restrict its grant of certiorari to the other issues, as it frequently does;
and did consider the sufficiency-of-the-evidence question.
*These figures include 1 summary per curiam disposition on the
merits in the 1923 Term, 1 in the 1928 Term, 1 in the 1939 Term, 1 in
the 1940 Term, 1 in the 1941 Term, 2 in the 1945 Term, 1 in the 1946
Term, 4 in the 1947 Term, 2 in the 1948 Term, 2 in the 1954 Term,
and 3 in the 1955 Term. See 69 Harv. L. Rev. 1441, 1446, n. 30. The
Reports have not been examined for summary dispositions on the
merits prior tQ 1938. That practice did not become established in
these cases until then, and prior to that time was at most desultgry.

'FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

Appendix B to Opinion of

1925 ............
1926 ............
1927 ............
1928 ............
1929 ............
1930 ............
1931 ............
1932 ............
1933 ............
1934 ............
1935 ............
1936 ............
1937 ............
1938 ............
1939 ............
1940 ............

FRANKFURTER,

549

J., dissenting.

1941 ............
1942 ............
1943 ............
1944 ............
1945 ............
1946 ............
1947 ............
1948 ............
1949 ............
1950 ............
1951 ............
1952 ............
1953 ............
1954 ........
1955 ............
1956 ............

**See footnote on p. 548.

APPENDIX B.
DECISIONS RELATING TO SUFFICIENCY OF THE EVIDENCE
UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY ACT.

(* Indicates Summary Disposition Per Curiam.)

1911 Term.
Texas & P. R. Co. v. Howell, 224 U. S. 577; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1912 Term.
Troxell v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 227 U. S. 434;
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Norfolk & W. R. Co. v. Earnest, 229 U. S. 114; judgment for plaintiff affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

1913 Term.
Young v. Central R. Co. of N. J., 232 U. S. 602; remand
for entry of judgment n. o. v. for defendant modified and
affirmed.
Grand Trunk Western R. Co. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S. 42;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Southern R. Co. v. Bennett, 233 U. S. 80; affirmance
of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Southern R. Co. v. Gadd, 233 U. S. 572; affirmance of
judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1914 Term.
Yazoo & M. V. R. Co. v. Wright, 235 U. S. 376; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
McGovern v. Philadelphia& R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 389;
directed verdict for defendant reversed.
Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Central Vermont R. Co. v. White, 238 U. S. 507; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1915 Term.
Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Devine, 239 U. S. 52;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Koennecke, 239 U. S. 352;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Reese v. Philadelphia & R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 463;
affirmance of nonsuit affirmed.
Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Wright, 239 U. S. 548;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Kanawha & M. R. Co. v. Kerse, 239 U. S. 576; judgment
for plaintiff affirmed.
Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Horton, 239 U. S. 595;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

551

J., dissenting.

Illinois Central R. Co. v. Skaggs, 240 U. S.66; affirm-,
ance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Great Northern R. Co. v. Wiles, 240 U. S.444; reversal
of judgment n. o. v. for defendant reversed.
Great Northern R. Co. v. Knapp, 240 U. S.464; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Jacobs v. Southern R. Co., 241 U. S.229; affirmanceof
judgment for defendant affirmed.
Baugham v. New York, P. & N. R. Co., 241 U. S.237;
affirmance of judgment for defendant affirmed.
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Stewart, 241 U. S. 261; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Renn, 241 U. S. 290; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Chesapeake & 0. R. Co..v. De Atley, 241 U. S.. 310;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Southern R. Co. v. Gray, 241 U. S.333; affirmance of
judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Chesapeake & 0. R. Co. v. Proffitt, 241 U. S. 462;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Chicago & N. W. R. Co. v. Bower, 241 U. S. 470; affirm-

ance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
San Antonio & A. P. R. Co. v. Wagner, 241 U. S. 476;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Spokane & I. E. R. Co. v. Campbell, 241 U. S. 497;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1916 Term.
Atlantic City R. Co. v. Parker,242 U. S.56; affirlnance
of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Whitacre, 242 U. S. 169;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
St. Joseph & G. 1. R. Co. v. Moore, 243 U. S. 311; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U. S.

New York Central & H. R. R. Co. v. Tonsellito, 244
U. S. 360; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Southern R. Co. v. Puckett, 244 U. S. 571; affirmance
of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Washington R. & Elec. Co. v. Scala, 244 U. S. 630;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1917 Term.
Boldt v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 245 U. S. 441; affirmance
of judgment for defendant affirmed.
Union Pacific R. Co. v. Huxoll, 245 U. S. 535; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Great Northern R. Co. v. Donaldson, 246 U. S. 121;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Nelson v. Southern R. Co., 246 U. S. 253; reversal of
judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Union Pacific R. Co. v. Hadley, 246 U. S. 330; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1918 Term.
Gillis v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 249 U. S. 515;
affirmance of directed verdict for defendant affirmed.
1919 Term.
Chicago; R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Ward, 252 U. S. 18; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Boehmer v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 252 U. S. 496; affirmance of directed verdict for defendant affirmed.
1920 Term.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S. 415; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1923 Term.
Frese v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 263 U. S. 1; reversal
of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

553

J., dissenting.

Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S. 239; affirmance of judgment
for plaintiff affirmed.
Davis v. Matthews, 263 U. S. 686;* affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1924 Term.
Davis v. Kennedy, 266 U. S. 147; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed for new trial;
evidence found sufficient for submission to jury.
1925 Term.
Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. R. Co. v. Goneau, 269
U. S. 406; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Chesapeake & 0. R. Co. v. Nixon, 271 U. 9. 218; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
St. Louis-San Francisco R. Co. v. Mills, 271 U. S. 344;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed..
Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1927 Term.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Southwell, 275 U. S. 64;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Aeby, 275 U. S. 426; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Gulf, M. & N. R. Co. v. Wells, 275 U. S. 455; affirmance
of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Toledo, St. L. & W. R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Jones, 276 U. S. 303;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Chesapeake & 0. R. Co. v. Leitch, 276 U. S. 429; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting. 352 U.S.

1928 Term.
Unadilla Valley R. Co. v. Caldine, 278 U. S. 139; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Western & A. R. Co. v. Hughes, 278 U. S. 496; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Tyner, 278 U. S. 565;*
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Koske, 279 U. S. 7; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Davis, 279 U. S. 34;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Driggers, 279 U. S. 787;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1929 Term.
Chesapeake & 0. R. Co. v. Mihas, 280 U. S. 102; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
New York Central R. Co. v. Ambrose, 280 U. S. 486;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
New York Central R. Co. v. Marcone, 281 U. S. 345;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Toops, 281 U. S. 351;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1930 Term.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Powe, 283 U. S. 401;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1931 Term.
Chesapeake & 0. R. Co. v. Kuhn, 284 U. S. 44; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Saxon, 284 U. S. 458;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. David, 284 U. S. 460; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

555

J., dissenting.

Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Temple, 285 U. S. 143;
reversed.
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff
Southern R. Co. v. Youngblood, 286 U. S. 313; affirmance of'judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Southern R. Co. v. Dantzler, 286 U. S. 318; affirmance
of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. Simpson, 286 U. S. 346; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1932 Term.
Rocco v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 288 U. S. 275; reversal
of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Chamberlain, 288 U. S. 333;
reversal of directed verdict for defendant reversed.
1933 Term.
Northwestern Pacific R. Co: v. Bobo, 290 U. S. 499;
affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1934- Term.
Swinson v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. R. Co., 294 U. S.
-529; directed verdict for defendant reversed.
1935 Term.
Chicago G. W. R. Co. v. Rambo, 298 U. S. 99; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1938 Term.
Great Northern R. Co. v. Leonidas, 305 U. S. 1; affirmance of judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
1939 Term.
Keys v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 308'U. S. 529;* reversal
of judgment for plaintiff reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

352 U.S.

1940 Term.
Jenkins v. Kurn, 313 U. S. 256; reversal of judgment
for plaintiff -reversed.
Steeley v. Kurn, 313 U. S. 545;* reversal of judgment
for plaintiff reversed.
1941 Term.
Seago v. New York Central R. Co., 315 U. S. 781;*
affirmance of judgment for defendant reversed.
1942 Term.
Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54; affirmance of directed verdict for defendant reversed.
Bailey v. Central Vermont R. Co., 319 U. S. 350; reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Owens v. Union Pacific R. Co., 319 U. S. 715; reversal
of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1943 Term.
Brady v. Southern R. Co., 320 U. S. 476; reversal of
judgment for plaintiff affirmed.
Tennant v. Peoria& P. U. R. Co., 321 U. S. 29; reversal
of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1944 Term.
Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 323 U. S. 574; reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Blair v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 323 U. S. 600; reversal
of entry of judgment for defendant reversed; sufficient
evidence to support jury verdict for plaintiff.
1945 Term.
Keeton v. Thompson, 326 U. S. 689; * reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.,

557

dissenting.

Lavender v. Kurn, 327 U. S. 645; reversal of judgment
for plaintiff reversed.
Cogswell v. Chicago & E. I. R. Co., 328 U. S. 820;*
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1946 Term.
Jesionowski v. Boston & M. R. Co., 329 U. S. 452;
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Ellis v. Union Pacific R. Co., 329 U. S. 649; reversal of
judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Pauly v. McCarthy, 330 U. S. 802;* reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Myers v. Reading Co., 331 U. S. 477; affirmance of
judgment n. o. v. for defendant reversed.
1947 Term.
Lillie v. Thompson, 332 U. S. 459;* affirmance of dismissal of complaint reversed.
Hunter v. Texas Electric R. Co., 332 U. S. 827;* affirmance of judgment for defendant affirmed.
Anderson v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 333 U. S. 821 ;*
affirmance of judgment for defendant reversed.
Eubanks v. Thompson, 334 U. S. 854;* reversal of
judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1948 Term.
Eckenrode v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 335 U. S. 329;
affirmance of judgment n. o. v. for defendant affirmed.
Coray v. Southern Pacific Co., 335 U. S. 520; affirmance of directed verdict for defendant reversed.
Penn v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 335 U. S. 849;*
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U. S. 53; affirmance of
directed verdict for defendant reversed.
404165 0-57-

42.

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Appendix B to Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting. 352 U. S.

Reynolds v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 336 U. S. 207;*
affirmance of judgment for defendant on demurrer
affirmed.
Hill v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 336 U. S. 911;*
affirmance of nonsuit reversed.
1949 Term.
Carter v. Atlanta & St. A. B. R. Co., 338 U. S. 430;
affirmance of judgment for defendant reversed.
Affolder v. New York, C. & St. L. R. Co., 339 U. S. 96;
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1950 Term.
Moore v. Chesapeake & 0. R. Co., 340 -U. S. 573;
affirmance of judgment for defendant n. o. v. affirmed.
1952 Term.
Stone v. New York, C. &St. L. R. Co., 344 U. S. 407;
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
1954 Term.
Smalls v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 348 U. S. 946;*
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
O'Neill v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 348 U. S. 956;*
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed. 1955 Term.
Anderson v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 350 U. S. 807;*
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Strickland v. Seaboard Air Line R. Co., 350 U. S. 893;
reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.
Cahill v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 350 U. S. 898,*
351 U. S. 183; reversal of judgment for plaintiff reversed.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

MR. JUSTICE

Opinion of
HARLAN,

HARLAN,

559

J.

concurring in No. 46 and dis-

senting in Nos. 28, 42 and 59. *
I.

I am in full agreement with what my Brother FRANKhas written in criticism of the Court's recurring
willingness to grant certiorari in cases of this type. For
the reasons he has given, I think the Court should not
have heard any of these four cases. Nevertheless, the
cases having been taken, I have conceived it to be my
duty to consider them on their merits, because I cannot
reconcile voting to dismiss the writs as "improvidently
granted" with the Court's "rule of four." In my opinion
due adherence to that rule requires that once certiorari
has been granted a case should be disposed of on the
premise that it is properly here, in the absence of considerations appearing which were not manifest or fully
apprehended at the time certiorari was granted. In these
instances I am unable to say that such considerations
exist, even though I do think that the arguments on
the merits underscored the views of those of us who
originally felt that the cases should not be taken because
they involved only issues of fact, and presented nothing
of sufficient general importance to warrant this substantial expenditure of the Court's time.
I do not think that, in the absence of the considerations
mentioned, voting to dismiss a writ after it has been
granted can be justified on the basis of an inherent right
of dissent. In the case of a petition for certiorari that
right, it seems to me-again without the presence of
intervening factors-is exhausted once the petition has
FURTER

*[NoTE: No. 46 is Herdman v. Pennsylvania R. Co., ante, p. 518;
No. 28 is Rogers v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., ante, p. 500; No. 42 is
Webb v. Illinois Central R. Co., ante, p. 512; and No. 59 is Ferguson
v. Moore-McCormack Lines, ante, p. 521.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

352 U. S.

been granted and the cause set for argument.' Otherwise
the "rule of four" surely becomes a meaningless thing in
more than one respect. First, notwithstanding the "rule
of four," five objecting Justices could undo the grant by
voting, after the case has been heard, to dismiss the writ as
improvidently granted-a course which would hardly be
fair to litigants who have expended time, effort, and money
on the assumption that their cases would be heard and decided on the merits. While in the nature of things litigants must assume the risk of "improvidently granted"
dismissals because of factors not fully apprehended when
the petition for certiorari was under consideration, short of
that it seems to me that the Court would stultify its own
rule if it were permissible for a writ of certiorari to be
annulled by the later vote of five objecting Justices.
Indeed, if that were proper, it would be preferable to have
the vote of annulment come into play the moment after
the petition for certiorari has been granted, since then
at least the litigants would be spared useless effort in
briefing and preparing for the argument of their cases.
Second, permitting the grant of a writ to be thus undone
would undermine the whole philosophy of the "rule of
four," which is that any case warranting consideration in
the opinion of such a substantial minority of the Court
will be taken and disposed of. It appears to me that such
a practice would accomplish just the contrary of what
representatives of this Court stated to Congress as to the
1 In

some instances where the Court has granted certiorari and
simultaneously summarily disposed of the case on the merits, individual Justices (including the writer) have merely noted their dissent
to the grant without reaching the merits. See, e. g., Anderson v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 350 U. S. 807; Cahill v. New York, N. H.
& H. R. Co.., 350 U. S. 898. Even here, I am bound to say, it would
probably be better practice for a .Justice, who has unsuccessfully
opposed certiorari, to face the merits, and to dissent from the summary disposition rather than from the grant of certiorari if he is not
prepared to reach the merits without full-dress argument.

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

Opinion of

561

HARLAN, J.

"rule of four" at the time the Court's certiorari jurisdiction was enlarged by the Judiciary Act of 1925.2 In
effect the "rule of four" would, by indirection, become a
"rule of five." Third, such a practice would, in my opinion, be inconsistent with the long-standing and desirable
custom of not announcing the Conference vote on petitions for certiorari. For in the absence of the intervening
circumstances which may cause a Justice to vote to dismiss a writ as improvidently granted, such a disposition
of the case on his part is almost bound to be taken as
reflecting his original Conference vote on the petition.
And if such a practice is permissible, then by the same
token I do not see how those who voted in favor of the
petition can reasonably be expected to refrain from
announcing their Conference votes at the time the
petition is acted on.
My Brother FRANKFURTER states that the course he
advocates will not result in making of the "rule of four"
an empty thing, suggesting that in individual cases "a
doubting Justice" will normally respect "the judgment
of his brethren that the case does concern issues important enough for the Court's consideration and adjudication," and that it is only "when a class of cases is
systematically taken for review" that such a Justice
"cannot forego his duty to voice his dissent to the Court's
action." However, it seems to me that it is precisely in
that type of situation where the exercise of the right of dissent may well result in nullification of the "rule of four"
by the action of five Justices. For differences of view as
to the desirability of the Court's taking particular
"classes" of cases-the situation we have here-are prone
to lead to more or less definite lines of cleavage among
the Justices, which past experience has shown may well
2

See Burton, Judging Is Also Administration, 21 Temple Law

Quarterly 77, 84-85, and n. 23 (1947).

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

352 U. S.

involve an alignment of four Justices who favor granting
certiorari in such cases and five who do not. If in such
situations it becomes the duty of one Justice among the
disagreeing five not to "forego" his right to dissent, then
I do not see why it is not equally the duty of the remaining four, resulting in the "rule of four" being set at naught.
I thus see no basis in the circumstance that a case is an
"individual" one rather than one of a "class" for distinctions in what may be done by an individual Justice who
disapproves of the Court's action in granting certiorari.
Although I feel strongly that cases of this kind do not
belong in this Court, I can see no other course, consistent
with the "rule of four," but to continue our Conference
debates, with the hope that persuasion or the mounting
calendars of the Court will eventually bring our differing
brethren to another point of view.
II.
Since I can find no intervening circumstances which
would justify my voting now to dismiss the writs in these
cases as improvidently granted, I turn to the merits
of the four cases before us. I agree with, and join in,
the Court's opinion in No. 46. I dissent in Nos. 28, 42
and 59. No doubt the evidence in the latter three cases
can be viewed both as the three courts below did and as
this Court does. So far as I can see all this Court has
done is to substitute its views on the evidence for those
of the Missouri Supreme Court and the two Courts of
Appeals, and that is my first reason for dissenting. In
my view we should not interfere with the decisions of
these three courts in the absence of clear legal error, or
some capricious or unreasonable action on their part.
Nothing of that kind has been shown here. I would apply
to cases of this type the reasoning of the Court in Labor
Board v. Pittsburgh Steamship Co., 340 U. S. 498,

FERGUSON v. MOORE-McCORMACK LINES.
521

Opinion of

563

HARLAN, J.

502-503, dealing with review of decisions of the National
Labor Relations Board by the Courts of Appeals:
"Were we called upon to pass on the Board's conclusions in the first instance or to make an independent review of the review by the Court of Appeals, we
might well support the Board's conclusion and reject
that of the court below. But Congress has charged
the Courts of Appeals and not this Court with [that]
normal and primary responsibility . . . . The same
considerations that should lead us to leave undisturbed, by denying certiorari, decisions of Courts of
Appeals involving solely a fair assessment of a record
on the issue of unsubstantiality, ought to lead us to
do no more than decide that there was such a fair
assessment when the case is here ....
"This is not the place to review a conflict of evidence nor to reverse a Court of Appeals because were
we in its place we would find the record tilting one
way rather than the other, though fair-minded judges
could find it tilting either way."
For my part, to overturn the judgments below simply
involves second-guessing the Missouri' Supreme Court,
the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, and the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, on questions of
fact on which they brought to bear judgments neither
capricious nor unreasonable, and on which they made a
"fair assessment of a record."
I dissent also for another reason. No scientific or precise yardstick can be devised to test the sufficiency of the
evidence in a negligence case.' The problem has always
been one of judgment, to be applied in view of the purposes of the statute. It has, however, been common
ground that a verdict must be based on evidence-not on
a scintilla of evidence but evidence sufficient to enable a

OCTOBER TERM, 1956.
Opinion of

HARLAN,

J.

352 U. S.

reasoning man to infer both negligence and causation by
reasoning from the evidence. Moore v. Chesapeake &
0. R. Co., 340 U. S. 573. And it has always been the
funcu*i.n of the court to see to it that jury verdicts stay
within that b'vindary, that they be arrived at by reason
and not by will or sheer speculation. Neither the Seventh
Amendment nor the Federal Employers' Liability Act
lifted that duty from the courts. However, in judging
these cases, the Court appears to me to have departed
from these long-established standards, for, as I read these
opinions, the implication seems to be that the question,
at least as to the element of causation, is not whether the
evidence is sufficient to convince a reasoning man, but
whether there is any scintilla of evidence at all to justify
the jury verdicts. I cannot agree with such a standard,
for I consider it a departure from a wise rule of law, not
justified either by the provision of the FELA making employers liable for injuries resulting "in whole or in part"
from their negligence, or by anything else in the Act or
its history, which evinces no purpose to depart in these
respects from common-law rules.
For these reasons I think the judgments in Nos. 28, 42
and 59, as well as that in No. 46, should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON concurs in Part I of this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE CLARK,

and MR.

JUSTICE BRENNAN

concur in Part I of this opinion except insofar as it disapproves of the grant of the writ of certiorari in these
cases.

