MATTHEWS v. RODGERS.
511

Syllabus.

they are allowed or their value is otherwise definitely determined. Regulations 65, Article 50. And see Regulations 45, Articles 1582-1584, as amended by T. D. 3296.
On the facts found there was no warrant for including
in petitioner's 1918 taxable income on account of such
inventories any amount in excess of ,market value at the
end of that year.
The lower court's dismissal of petitioner's claims for
deduction of $327,937.35 on account of buildings and
$500,473.19 on account of inventories cannot be sustained.
Reversed.
-

MATTHEWS ET AL. v. RODGERS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 84. Argued December 1, 2, 1931. Reargued January 11, 1932.Decided February 15, 1932.
1. Objection to the equity jurisdiction of the District Court held to
* have been properly raised by motion to dismiss the -ill, and breserved by assignments of error in this Court. P. 524.
2. The rule, emphasized by Jud. Code § 267, that suits in ,quity shall
not be maintained in the federal courts in any case whehe a plain,
adequate and complete remedy may be had at law, is ofpeculiar
force in cases in which it is Lought to enjoin the collection of state
taxes. P. 525.
3. That refusal to pay an allegedly unconstitutional state tai will
result in civil and criminal penalties and irreparable damage to the
plaintiff's business is not basis for a suit in the federal court to enjoin collection, if the legal remedy of paying under protest and
suing the collector to recover is afforded by the state law. P. 526.
4. 8uch a legal remedy exists under the statutes and decisions of
Mississippi. P. 527.
5. Such legal remedy, although against the collecting officer rather
than the State or municipality, is to be deemed adequate, where the
bill does not allege special circumstances showing inability of the
plaintiff to pay the tax, or of the collecting officer to respond to
judgiment. P. 528.

522

OCTOBER -TERM, 1931..
Opini6n of the Court.

284 U. S.

6. The equity jurisdiction of the inferior federal courts is that of the
English Court of Chancery at the time of the separation of the two
countries;, it can not be enlarged by state legislation creating new
equitable remedies in the state courts. P. 529.
7. Therefore, the fact that a'State has provided a remedy against
illegal -state taxes by. injunction does not authorize the federal
courts-to enjoin where the legal remedy is adequate. Id.
8. In general, the jurisdiction of equity to avoid multiplicity of
actions at law is restricted to cases where there would otherwise be
some necessity for the maintenance of numerous suits between the
same parties, involving the same issues of law or fact. *It does not
extend to cases where there are numerous parties plaintiff, and the
issues between them and the adverse party are not necessarily
identical. Id.
9. Where the alleged unconstitutionality of a state tax depends in
the case of each of many taxpayers upon its effect upon his particular business in'interstate commerce, a suit -by or on behalf of all to
enjoin the collector can not be supported as one to avoid a multiplicity of actions. P. 530.
Reversed.
APPaL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, which enjoined the county sheriff and ex officio
tax collector and three members of the State Board of
Tax Commissioners from collecting certain 'privilege"
taxes. The bill was filed by numerous plaintiffs on b ehalf
of themselves and of all'others similarly, situated.

Mr. J. A. Lauderdale, Assistant Attorney General of
Mississippi, with whom Mr. George T. Mitchell, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. EdwardW. Smith and Sam C. Cook, with whom
Mr. J. W. Cutrerwas on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SToNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal, §§ 238, 266 of the Judicial Code, from
a decree of a District Court of three judges, for the Northern District of Mississippi, enjoining the collection from
the several appellees of a state tax, as an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce. After argument -here on

MATTHEWS v. RODGERS.
521

523

Opinion of the Court.

the merits, the cause was restored to the docket "for reargument, limited to the question of the jurisdiction of
the District Court both with respect to the amount in-'
volved in, the suit and the jurisdiction of the court as a
court of equity." Reargument has been had accordingly.
The bill of complaint assails the constitutionality of
§ 56, c. 88, 1930 Laws of Mississippi, as applied to appellees. The section imposes an annual license or "privilege" tax of $100, payable in advance by "every person
engaged in the business of buying or selling cotton for
himself." It also requires employers engaged in the business of buying or selling cotton to pay a similar "tax of
twenty-five dollars ($25) for every empjoye engaged in
their business as buyer or seller." Penalties are imposed
in double 'the amount of the tax for its nonpayment.
§ 225. Failure to make application for the license, or
engaging in the business without having procured the license or paid the tax, are misdemeanors, punishable by
fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding six
months, or both. § 242.
The bill, which is in the form of a class bill, filed by
the numerous appellees for the benefit of themselves and
others similarly situated, alleges that they are engaged in
interstate and foreign commerce, in the course of which
they purchase cotton within the state and sell and
ship it in interstate or foreign commerce to purchasers
outside the state; that the business of each of the several
appellees and the right to conduct it is of a value of more
than $3,000, the jurisdictional amount for suits brought in
a district court of the United States; that the tax imposed by the state statute is, as to them, an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, and that appellants,
state officers, charged with the duty of collecting the tax,
threaten to enforce its collection by criminal proceedings
and the imposition of penalties. The bill states that resort to equity to prevent collection of the tax is either

.524

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

necessary or authorized for the following, among other,
reasons:
(1) That the enforcement of the unconstitutional, statute would -irreparably injure or destroy_ the business of
each 'of. the appellees.
(2) That the taxes, if paid, can not be recovered by any
-action or proceeding at law.
(3) That § 304 of Hemingway's Annotated Mississippi
Code of 1927, has conferred on the appellees the right
to proceed in equity in the. state, courts to ,enjoin the
collection of an unconstitutional tax, and that that
remedy is available in the federal district court.
(4) That resort to. equity is necessary in order to, avoid
a multiplicity of separate suits by the appellees and others
similarly, situated, three hundred in all, to enjoin collection of the tax, or otherwise necessary in order ,to recover
it if paid or to prevent successive prosecutions for the
violation of the act, in all of which suits or proceedings
the issue of the constitutionality 'of the tax would be
substantially the same.
The right of appellees, if any, to maintain the present
suit, is conferred-by § 24 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 41 (1), which, regardless of the citizenship of the parties
to the suit,; vests in district courts of the United States
jurisdiction over suits at law or in equity "arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States," where
the matter in controversy e: ceeds $3,000. Although the
present suit arises under the Constitution of the United
States, see Davis v. Wallace, 257 U. S. 478, and it be assumed, without deciding, that the jurisdictional amount
is involved, the suit cannot be maintained if not within
the equity jurisdiction of the district court. The want
of equity jurisdiction, if obvious, :may and should
be objected- to by the court of its own motion. :Twist"
v. Prai'e Oil Co., 274 U. S. 684, 690. fn other cases,
this jurisdictional requirement, unlike the others men-

MATTHEWS v. RODGERS.
521

Opinion of the Court.

tioned, may be treated as waived if the objection is not
presented by the defendant in limine. Duignanv. United
States,,274 U. S. 195, 199; Singer Sewing Machine Co.v.
Benedict, 229 U. S.481, 484; Thompson v. Railroad Companies, 6 Wall. 134; compare Matson Navigation Co. v.
United States, ante, p. 352; Hilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S.
165, 168; Grace v. American Central Ins. Co., 109 U. S.
278, 283-284; B6rs v. Preston, 111 U. S.252, 255. Here,
the objection to the equity jurisdiction of the district
court was properly raised by appellants' mnotion to dismiss
the bill, and is preserved by their assignments of error in
this Court.
Section 16 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 82, perpetuated without material change as Rev. Stat..723, 28
U. S. C. § 384, Jud. Code § 267, declares that suits in
equity shall not be sustained in the courts of the United
States "in any case where plain, adequate and complete
remedy may be had at law." The effect' of this section,
which was but declaratory of the rule in equity, established long before its adoption, is to .emphasize the rule
and to forbid in terms recourse to the extraordinary remedies of equity where the right asserted may be fully protected at-law. See Deweese v. Reinhard, 165 U. S. 386,
389; New York Guaranty Co.v. Memphis Water Co., 107
U. S.205, 214.
The reason for this guiding principle is of peculiar force
in cases where the suit, like the present one, is brought to
enjoin the collection of a state tax in courts of a different,
though paramount sovereignty. The scrupulous regard
for the rightful independence of state governments which
should at all times actuate the federal courts,-and a proper
reluctance to interfere by injunction with their fiscal opoerations, require that such relief should be denied in every
case where th6 asserted federal right may be preserved
without, it. Whenever the question has been ,presented,
this Court'.has -uniformly held that the mere illegality. or

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

unconstitutionality of a state or municipal tax is not in
itself a ground for equitable relief in the courts of the
United States. If the remedy at law is plain, adequate,
and complete, the aggrieved party is left to that remedy
in the state courts, from which the cause may be brought
to this Court for review if any federal question be involved,' Jud. Code § 237, or to his suit at law in the federal
courts if the essential elements of federal jurisdiction are
present. See Boise Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S.
276; Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591; Dows v. Chicago, 11
Wall. 108, 110, 112.
It may be assumed that if appellees do not pay the challenged tax, and in consequence of that omission they are
subjected, as it is alleged they will be, to the civil and
criminal penalties for nonpayment, the regulting injury
to their business will be irreparable and can"be avoided
only by resort to equity to prevent the threatened wrong.
But appellants insist-that the appellees are under no such
constraint, either to expose themselves to the penalties for
failure to pay the tax, or to seek equitable relief against
its collection, since each of them may pay the tax to the
collecting officer under protest and, under the laws of
Mississippi, may maintain a suit at law for its recovery on
the ground that it was exacted in violation of the Constitution of the United States. That such a procedure saves
to the taxpayer his federal right, and if available will defeat the jurisdiction of federal courts to enjoin the collection of the tax, has long been the settled rule in this Court.
Henrietta Mills v. Rutherford County, 281 U. S. 121;
Arkansas Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Madden, 175 U. S. 269;
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S.
280; Shelton v. Platt,supra; Singer Seuing M11achine Co.
v. Benedict, supra;Allen v. Pullman'sPalace Car Co., 139
U. S. 658; Indiana Mfg. Co. v. Koehne, 18gU. S. 681.
From an examination of the decisions of the highest
court of the state we conclude, as the Attorney General

MATTHEWS v. RODGERS.
521-

Opinion of the Court.

of the State insists, that that procedure is- open to the
appellees in Mississippi, if the tax is paid under protest,
to avoid penalties or criminal proceedings. In Coulson v.
Harris, 43 Miss. 728, the Supreme Court of Mississippi
denied the jurisdiction of equity to enjoin the collection
of an illegally assessed tax on the sole ground that the
taxpayer might pay the tax to the collecting officer and
sue at law for its recovery. In Tuttle v. Everett, 51 Miss.
27, recovery was allowed of a tax thus paid, in a suit at
law brought against the collector before he had paid over
the tax to the proper treasury. In Vicksburg v. Butler,
56"Miss. 72, and PearlRiver County v. Lacey Lumber Co.,
124 Miss. 85; 86 So. 755, suits at law for recovery of a tax,
were maintained against the city, in the first case, and
the county, in the second, to which the collectorhad paid
the taxes. But in the former the court was at pains to
point out, pp. 75, 76:
"Some of the cases refer to a notice to the collector
that suit will be brought to recover the money back.
That notice is necessary, if the payer intends to sue the
collector. After its receipt, if he pays it over to the
proper treasury, he does so at his risk, and does not relieve
himself from responsibility. If, however, he pays it over
without such notice, suit can only be brought against his
principal,-in this case the city of Vicksburg."
In PearlRiver County v. Lacey Lumber Co., supra, the
court said, p. 109:
•"We do not think that the county can shield itself from
repayment of money collected under an unconstitutional
law, paid under protest,. on the ground that the county had
disbursed the money so collected into various taxing districts, or has expended the money which it wrongfully
collected.- The fact that the county might not be able
to recover from the taxing districts the amount of money
paid to such districts would not exempt it from liability
to the taxpayer from whom it wrongfully collected it."-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

Such a suit, although against the collecting officer
rather than the state or municipality affords an adequate
legal remedy, in the absence of allegations in the bill,
which are wanting here, of special circumstances showing
inability of the taxloayer to pay the tax or of the collecting officer to respond.to the judgment: see Arkansas Bldg.
& Loan-Assn. v;.JMadden, supra, p. 274; Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe Ry.- v. O'Connor, supra, p. 285; Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, supra, p. 487; and this is the
rule inMississippi; Coulson v. Harris,supra, p. 752; Richardson v. Scott, 47 Miss. 236.
Collection of the money by the collector in the name
of the state, if wrongful, would not protect him. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. v. O'Connor, supra. The
statutes, §§ 3289, 3290, TMississippi Code of 1930, which
require payment over by the collector of taxes to the
appropriate treasury, allow the penalties for nonpayment
to be remitted on certificate of the governor or attorney
general "if tthey are satisfied that the delay has not been
wilful or avoidable by the collector," and § 3q278.makes
provision for the repayment to any sheriff or tax collector
of taxes "by mistake or oversight erroneously paid" to
the state treasurer. See Taylor v. Guy, 119 Miss. 357;
80 So. 786. These provisions -would seem to contemplate
suits against the collector for the recovery of the tax and
to afford him some protection in the event of a judgment
against him. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. v.
O'Connor, supra, p. 287. But as no facts are presented
to show that the suit against the collector in the present
case will not be adequate, it is unnecessary to consider
their precise scope and effect.
The suit in equity to enjoin an. illegal tax, authorized
by § 304 of Hemingway's Code for 1927 (§ 420, Mississippi Code of 1930), appears not to be available when
there is any other adequate remedy. See Anderson v.
Ingersoll, 62 Miss. 73; Board of Supervi.jors v. Ames,

MATTHEWS v. RODGERS.

529

Opinion of the Court.

521

3 So. 37. In any case, the section cannot affect the jurisdiction of federal courts of equity. The equity jurisdiction conferred on inferior courts of the United States by
§ 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 78, and continued
by § 24 of the Judicial Code, is that of the English court
of chancery at the time of the separation of the two
countries. Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425,430; In re Sawyer,
.124 U. S.200, 209-210. - While local statutes may create
new rights, for the protection of which ,recourse may be
had to the remedies afforded by federal courts of equity
if the remedy at law is inadequate and the other jurisdictional requirements are-present, state legislation cannot
enlarge their jurisdiction by the creation of new equitable remedies, nor can it avoid or dispense with the prohibition against the maintenance of any'suit in equity
in the federal courts, where the legal remedy is adequate.
Henrietta Mills v. Rutherford County, supra, pp. 127,
128; Pusey'& Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S.491, 500.
Appellees' bill of complaint does not state a case within
the jurisdiction of equity to avoid multiplicity of suits.
As to each appellee a single suit at law brought to recover
the tax will determine its constitutionality and no facts
are alleged, slowing that more than one suit will be necessary for that purpose. See Boise Water Co. v.. Boise City,
213 U. S, 276, 285-286; Dalton Adding Machine Co. v.
State CorporationComm., 236 U. S.699, 700-701.
But it is said that since each appellee must pay the tax
to avoid penalties and crAinal prosecution, all must
maintain suits for the recovery of the tax unconstitutionally exacted, in order to protect their federal rights, and
that to avoid the necessity of the many suits, equity may
draw to itself the determination of the issue necessarily
involuved in all the suits at law.
In general, the jurisdiction of equity to avoid multiplicity of suits at law is restricted to cases where there
would otherwise be some necessity for the maintenance of
85912q--32-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U. S.

numerous suits between the same parties, involving the
same issues of law or fact. It does not extend to cases
where there are numerous parties plaintiff or defendant,
and the issues between them and the adverse party are
not uecessarily identical. St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. McKnight, 244 U. S. 368, 375; Kelley
v. Gilt, 245 U. S. 116, 120; Franc .. Flinn, 118 U. S. 385;
,cott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 115; Hale v. Allinson, 188
U. S. 56, 77 et seq.; and see Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudencie (4th ed. 1918), §§ 251, 2511/2, 255, 259, 268.
While the present, bill sets up that the single issue of
constitutionality of the taxing statute is involved, the
alleged unconstitutionality depends upon the application
of the statute to each of the appellees, and its effect upon
his business, which is alleged to be interstate commerce.
The bill thus tenders separate issues of law and fact as to
each appellee, the nature of his business and the manner
and extent to which the tax imposes a burden on interstate commerce. The determination of these issues as to
any one taxpayer would not determine them as to any
other. There was thus 'a failure of such identity of parties
and issues as would support the jurisdiction in equity.
Reversed.
STRATTON, SECRETARY OF STATE OF ILLINOIS,
v. ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 178.

Argued December 2, 3, 1931. Reargued. January 11,
1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.

1. A suit will not lie in a federal court to enjoin a state officer from
,collecting a tax that violates the Federal Constitution, where the
state law affords a legal remedy through payment of the tax under
protest and suit to recover it from the collecting officer,, and no
special circumstances are alleged in the bill which Would render the

