DENTON v. YAZOO & M. V. R. CO.

305

Syllabus.

299

attorney to the jury, claimed to be prejudicial, and instructions of the court. These matters were properly
disposed of by the court below. Nor is there merit in
the contention that the language of the penal section of
the, Narcotic Act, -" any person who violates or fails to
comply with any of the requirements of this act" shall
be punished, etc., is to be construed as imposing a single
punishment for a violation of the distinct requirements
of §§ I and 2 when accomplished by one and the same
sale. The plain meaning of the provision is that each
offense is subject to the penalty prescribed; and if that
be too harsh, the remedy must be afforded by act of
Congress, not by judicial legislation under the. guise of
construction. Under the circumstances, so far as disclosed, it is' true that the imposition of the full penalty
of fine and imprisonment upon each count seems unduly
severe; but there may have been other facts and circumstances before the trial court properly influencing'theextent of the punishment. oIn any event, the matter was
one for that court, with whose judgment there is no warrant for interference on our part.
Judgment affirmed.
DENTON v. YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI 'VALLEY RAIL-

ROAD CO. ET AL.
'CERTIORARI

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 242. Argued December 11, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. When one -person puts his servant at the disposal 'and under the
.control of another forthe performance of a particular service for
the latter, the servant, in respect of his acts in that service, is to
•be dealt with as the servant of the latter and not of the former.

P. 308.
2 Railroad companies are required by.statute to transport the mail
"in the manner, under the conditions, and With the service prescribed by the Postmaster' General," and one of his regulations
85912°-32-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.,
Argument for Respondents.

284 U.S.

provides that they shall furnish the men necessary to handle the
mails and to load them into the mail cars under the direction of a
transfer clerk, a federal employee. Held that railroad companies
aie not liable for personal injuries resulting from the negligence
of one; of their employees while hp was engaged in so loading
mail,'because his work at the time was work of the Government
under control of a government agent. P. 309.'
160 Miss. 850, 133 So. 656, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 603, to review a judgment reversing
a. judgment recovered by the plaintiff in' an .action for
personal injuries against two railroad companies.
Mr. John P..Bramhall, with whom Mr. James E. McCabe was on the brief, for petitioner.
They contended that the lent servant doctrine had no
application, and quoted §§ 1286, par. 5; 1288, and 1293,
par. 3, of the Postal Regulations of 1924 as serving to
show that the work of the porter at the time of the injury
was work of the railroads which they were required by
statute to perform upon their own responsibility. They
argued that the word '"
direction," as used in § 1293, par.2,
of those Regulations, could mean no. more than a pointing
out to th- railroad porters of the.disposition to be made of
the various pouches of mail at railroad terminals and
transfer points where the services of porters are required.
'Cases cited were: Hinds v. Kellogg, 13 N. Y. S. 922, 923;
Standard Oil Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215, 226; Driscoll
v. Towle, 181 Mass. 416.
Mr. H. D. Minor, with whom Messrs. Charles N.
Burch, R. V. Fletcher, A. S. Bozeman, and C. H-. McKay
were on the'brief, for respondents.
The porter was, while" doing this work, the servant of
the federal Government and not- of the carrier, wherefore
the doctrine of lent servant applies. Yazoo & M. V. R.
Co. v. Denton, 133 So. 656;:StandardOil Co. v. Andelson,
212 U. S.215; Linstead v.,Chesapeake & 0. R. Co., 276

DENTON v. YAZOO & M. V. R. CO.
305

Opinion of the Court

U. S. 28; Harrefl v. Atlas Co., 250 Fed. 83; Burgess v.
StandardOil Co., 2.62 Fed. 767; Isaacs v. Prince,133 Miss.
205; Carrv. Burke, 131 App. Div. (N. Y.) 361.
MR. JusTicE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner, a United States railway postal clerk,
sustained an injury due to the alleged negligence of oneHunter, a porter in the general service of the two railroad
companies named as respondents. Hunfer was hired and
paid by the Illinois Central Railroad Company. At the
time of the injury he was engaged in loading United
States mUl into a mail car, under the direction of a
United States postal transfer clerk, and was not, as to
that work, under the direction or control of either of the
railroad companies.
The mail was being transported. by the railroad companies under c. 261, 1§ 5,,39 Stat. 412, 429, U. S. C., Title
39,'§ 541, which requires all railway common carriers to
transport such mail "in the manner, under the conditions, and with the service prescribed by the Postmaster
General." *A regulation of the Postmaster General,
adopted by authority of- this statute, provides:
"Section 1293.. . . 2. Railroad companies shall furnish the men necessary to handle the mails, to load them
into and receive them from the doors 6f' railway post
office cars, and to load and pile the mails in and unload
them from storage and baggage cars, under the direction
of the transfer clerk, or clerk in charge of the car, if one
is on duty, except as provided in Section 1290. Mails
intended for delivery to postal clerk shall never be placed
in - postal car unless there is a clerk on duty-to receive
and care for them."
Petitioner brought an action in a Mississippi state
court of first instance, against the railroad companies and

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

,Hunter, to recover damages for the injury, joining the
railroads upon the theory "that,in performing the work of
loading the mail, Hunter was their servant.. A verdict
against all of the defendants was returned by the jury,
and a judgment thereon entered. The judgment, as to the
railroad companies, was reversed by the state supreme
court oi the ground that what Hunter was doing at the
time of his alleged iegligent act, was not for them but for
the United States. 160 Miss. 850; 133 So. 656.
Whether the railroad companies may be held liable for
Hunter's act depends not upon the fact that he was their
servant generally, but upon whether the work which he
was doing at the time was their work or that of another,
a question determined, usually at least, by ascertaining
under whose authority and commaaid the work was being
done. When one person puts his servant at the disposal
and under the control of another for the performance of
a particular service for the latter, the servant, in respect
of his acts in that service, is to be dealt with as the servant
of the latter and not of the former. This rule is elementary and finds support in a large nnmber of decisions, a
few only of which need be cited. In Standard Oil Co. v.
Anders~n, 212 U. S.215, 220-:225, this court said: .
"The servant himself is, of. course, liable for the consequences of his own carelessness. But when, as is so.
frequently the case, an attempt is made to impose upon
the master the liability for those conseqiences, it some-.,
times becomes necessary to inquire who was the master at
the very time of the negligent act or omission. . One may
be in the general service of another, and, nevertheless,
with respect to particular work, may be transferred, with
his own consent'or acquiescence, to the service 6f a third
person, so that he becomes the se'vant of that person with
all'the legal consequences of the new relation.

DENTON v. YAZOO & M. V. R. CO.
305

309

Opinion of the Court.

"To determine whether a given ease falls within the
one class or the other we must inquire whose is the work
being performed, a question which is usually answered by
ascertaining who has the power to control and direct the
servants in the performance of their work. Here we must
carefully distinguish between authoritative direction and
control, and mere suggestion as to details or the necessary
co6peration, where the work furnished is part of a larger
undertaking.

.

"In many of the casesthe power of substitution or discharge, the payment oi wages and other circumstances
bearing upon the relation are dwelt upon. They, however, are not the ultimate facts, but only those more or
less useful in determining whose is the w ork and whose is
the power of control.'"
And see Linstead v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 276
U. S. 28; Harrellv. Atlas PortlandCement Co., 250 Fed.
83, 85; Brady v: Chicago & G. W. Ry. Co., 114 Fed. 100,
107; Wyllie v. Palmer, 137 N. Y. 248, 257; 33 N. E. 381;
Higgins v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 156 N. Y. 75,78;
50 N. E. 500; Corer v. Lindgren, 106 Cal. 602, 607; 39
Pac. 950; Rourke v. White Moss Colliery Co., L. R., 2
C. P. Div. (1876-1877) 205.
The statutory obligation imposed upon the railroad carriers'is simply to transport mail offered for transportation
by the United States. They are not required to handle,
load or receive mail matter, but -only to furnish the men
necessary for those puriposes. The menso furnished handie the mails and load them into, and receive them from,
the railway post office cars, as the regulation prescribes,
"una6r the direction of the transfer clerk, or clerk in
charge of the car.". The work they do is that of the government. It is said that " direction "means nothing.more
than tie right to point out or indicate to the men fur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

nished the disposition to be made of the mail. The scope
of the word, as it is'here used, is not to be thus limited.
The phrase, " under the direction of the transfer clerk,"
would be practically meaningless unless it comprehended
the power to supervise and control the movement. Obviously, as the evidence shows, a direction by the transfer
clerk carrieg with it the duty, on the paft of the men
directed, to obey, and has, and was intended to have, the
force of a command. See Warner Valley Stock Co. v.
Smith, 165 U. S. 28, 34;.Kellyville Coal Co. v.'Bruzas, 223
Ill. 595, 600; 79 N. E. 309.
The Anderson case, supra, and Driscoll v. Towle, 181
Mass. 416; 63 N. E. 922; are relied upon by petitioner to
sustain the verdict of the' jury. In the Anderson case,
a winchman in the general service of the Standard Oil
Company was furnished by the company to a master
stevedore under contract with it to load a ship with oil.
The winchman, in operating the winch, depended upon
signals to be given by an employee of the stevedore to
determine the proper time for hoisting and lowering the
cargo. The negligence charged was that a draft of cases
had been lowered before f'eceiving the signal. This court
held upon the facts, in the light of the rule which we
have just stated and discussed, that the power, the winch,
and the winchman were those of the company, and that
the company did not furnish them, but furnished the work
they did to the 'stevedore; and that this work was done
by the company as its own woik, by its own instrumentalities and servant under its control. A judgment
for Anderson against the company was affirmed.
In the Driscoll case the defendant was engaged in a
general teaming business. Plaintiff was struck and injured by a horse or wagon driven by a servant of, the
defendant. This driver, for some time, had been carrying property for an electric light company under some

DENTON v. YAZOO & M. V. R. CO.
305

311

Opinion of ttie Court.

arrangement betwebn that -company and the defendant.
He was told by an employee of the company, from time
to time, what to do and where to goi and was sometimes
directed to drive fast, in which event he* did so. He
selected his own route and had exclusive management
of his horse. At the time of the accident he was going
to get some supplies in pursuance of an order frofn the
foreman of the company. It was held that there- was
evidence to go to*th6 jury that the driver was the servant of the defendant.. The court said that it fairly could
be fouid.that the contract between defendant and the
company was an ordinari one by the defendant to do
his'regular business by his servants in the common way;
that in such cases the one who employs the contractor"
controls the servant only in the sense that he indicates
the, work to be done; but that the person who receives
such orders is not subject to the general orders of the
one who gives them. "He does his own business in his
own way, and the orders which he receives simply point
out to him the work which he or his master has under-taken to do."
In each of these cases the facts plY'ily demonstrated
'that the work was that of*the general, master, and that in
doing it, the servant had 'not passed under the direction
and -control of the person .for whom the immediate work
was being done, the latter' being, looked to not for commands, but for information.- As already .shown, the
facts of the present case require a different conclusion. "
Judgment affirmed.

