UNITED STATES v. RYAN.
160

- Syllabus.

167

-

system to prevent evasions, relieves the present tax of the
objection that it is arbitXrarily retroactive.
Group S. Although the bank accounts were opened before the passage of the.Revenue Act of 1916, the-record
does not disclose whether the deposits, which.were the
sources of the credit balances at the time of the decedent's
death, were made before or after 1916. If after, the tax
was rightly laid, for reasons already stated, which support the tax with respect to the items in Group 2. As
the suit is brought to recover taxes already -paid, the presumption is that they were lawfully assessed and the
burden rests on the taxpayer to prove the fTcts which establish their illegality. Niles Bement Pond Co. v. United
States, 281 U. S. 357, 361; Reinecke v. Spalding, 280 U. S.
227, 232. As the taxpayer has failed to sustain the burden in this respect or to show that the wife had originally
owned or paid for any of the items or to present any
facts to support a recovery other than those stated, the
judgment is
Reversed.
UNITED STATES .v. RYAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF APPEALS FOR THEXINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49. Argued October 26, 27, 1931.-Decidea November 23, 1931.
1. Statutes designed to prevent fraud on the revenue are construed
less narrowly, even though a forfeiture results, than penal statutes
and oth6rs involving forfeitures. P. 172.
2. In R. S. § 3453, which provides for forfeiture of (1) taxable articles
founij in the possession, custody or control of any person for the
purpose of being sold or removed by him in fraud of the internal
revenue laws, (2) raw materials found in the possession of any
person intending to manufacture the same into articles of a kind
subject to tax, with intent to defraud the revenue, and (3) all tools,
implements, instruments, and personal property whatsoever, in the

168

OCTOBER -TERM,. 1931.
Counsel for the United States.

284 U.S.

place or building, or within, any yard or inclosure' where such articles or raw materials are found, the phrase "such, articles" in the
third clause refers to the articles mentioned in both of the other
clauses of the section, so tfiat chattels associated with illicit possession, as well as those associated with illicit manufaeture, are subject
to forfeiture under the statute. P. 173"
3. The uniform construction given to a statute by the lower federal
courts for more than -sixty years is persuasive in determining its
true meaPng. ; 174.
4. In adopting § 3453 in the Revised Statutes without substantial
change of the secti6n as amended.seven years previously, 'Congress
must be deemedto have adopted~the consistent interpretation theretofore given tho amended section by the-courts. P. 175.
5. A literal application of a statute which would lead to absurd consequences is to be avoided whenever a reasonable application can
be given which iscon istent with the legislative purpose. Id.'
6. The general words "all personal property whatoever," as used in
R. S. § 3453 to define -what property i subject to forfeiture, must
be construed, ly application of.the prnciple noscitura sociis, to be
limited in their meaning to chattels, which have some relation to
the tax evasion aimed at by the statute. P. 176.
7. Bar' fixtures and other saloon furnishings and equipment of a room
in which tax-unpaid intoxicating liquors were dispensed are subject
to forfeiture under R. S. § 3453. Id.
8. A forfeiture under R. S. § 3453 of saloon-furnishings and equipment seiged in a place where tax-unpaid liquor was possessed for
sale is not barred by the arrest and prosecution of the offender under
the National Prohibition Act. Id.
44 F. (2d) 951, reversed.

CEmoRARi, 283 U. S. 816, to review a judgment reversing a judgment for the Government in a forfeiture pro-

ceeding, under R. S. § 3453.
Aasistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. John J. Byrne
and Paul, D. Miller were on the brief, for the United
States.

UNITED STATES v. RYAN.
7-

169,

Argumen t for Respondent.

'Mr.Geofge D.- Toole, with whom Mr. C.; S. Wagner'waS
on the brief,'for respondent.Section 3453 of the Revised Statutes contains three
sentences. -In 1864 and as amended in 1866, the section
consisted of a single Sentence. Conflicting ji~dicial constructions were- placed upon it.- When- carried, fiward
into the Revised Statutes it was punctuated as'.it now
stands., It -declares the law as of December 1, 1873, the
effective -date of the'Revised Statutes. Diwight v. Merritt, 140 U.-S. 213; -Bate Refrigerating"Co v. Suizberger,
157- U. S. 1; United States,v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508.
Under it, only- objects on,1iwhich taxes :are imposed, and
evaded, are subject to seizure and forfeiture, as declared
in the first, sentence.' ,Tools; implements, instruments,and personal property whatsoever, in the place or building, or within anyyard or inclosure, are:subject to seizure.
and forfeiture only when associated with:7a manufactory
of some kind,' as declared i- the secoid sentence of the.
stafute' InZ re Hurley,: 37'F. (2d) 397; United States V.
OneIce-Box, 37 F(2d) 120;, United States V. Ten Both..
tles' of Scotch Whiskey; 48 F. -(2d) '545; United States v.
Thirty-three-Barrels' of Spirits; Fed. ^as. 'No. 16470;
United States v. Siateen Barrels of Distilled Spirits, Fed.

Cas. No. 16300..
Contemporaneous, construction is controlling..:For a
half century (.1879-,1930) the Bureau of Internal Revenue
did not avail itself of the:provisionis of the statute; to seize"
other than articles per-se contrabarid, unless associated
with a manufactory of some kind, so far.as the reported.
cases disclose.
The language of, the statute. snpports-,-the construction
given to it by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In this case there was an election of remedies by thie
United States and., the Government is -bound .thereby,

TERM, I91.

10-OCTOBER

Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

though the Circu t Court found it unnecessary to'base its
decision upon this ground, urged in the trial court.
A prosecution was instituted under the National Prohibition Act. The property involved herein was seized by
a prohibition enforcement agent armed with a search warrant issued under the provisions of the National Prohibition Act. The seizure was adopted and the property was.
in custodialegis, stored in a public warehouse, when it-was
again seized by the United States Marshal under a warrant and monition issued in this libel proceeding. The
person in charge of the place where the property was first
seized as indicted by the grand jury for violation of the
National Prohibition Act, "the fourth count charging him
with, the maintenance of a common -nuisance in violation
of Title II of that Act.
Under the facts the National Prohibition Act governs.
as it does in transp'ortation cases. Richbourg Motor Co.
v. United States, 281 U. S.528; Commercial Credit Co. v.
United States, 276 U. S. 226. Distinguishing Various
Items of Personal Property v. United States, 282 U. S.
577. See also United States v. One Ford Coupe, 272 U. S.
321; Herterv. United States, 33 F. (2(1) 400-402.
MR.JUsTiCE STomw

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Upon a libel filed by the United States in the District
Court for Montana, praying the forfeiture of a bar, back
bar,- and other saloon--furnishings and equipment, seized
by federal prohibition agents, it was averred that, at the
time and placeof -seizure, one Lewis had in his possession
tax-unpaid intoxicating liquors for the purpose of selling
or removing them in fraud of the revenue laws.
Respondent Ryan. intervened, claiming the seized property as owner,-and set up that none'of it was designed for
the manufacture of intoxicating liquors, or intended for
use in violation of the National Prohibition Act, or subject

UNITED STATES v. RYAN.
167

Opinion of the Court.

to forfeiture. At the trial it appeared from the evidence
that at the time and place of seizure, the place being a
so-called soft drink parlor, in fact used for the sale of
intoxicating liquors as beverages, tax-unpaid liquor was
possessed for sale and -was being sold by Lewis. At the
close of the evidence, both sides having moved for a
directed verdict, the court withdrew the case from the
jury and gave judgment for the Government, which the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. reversed, holding
that the forfeiture authorized by R. S. § 3453, 26 U. S. C.
§ 1185, is confined to chattels seized in places in which
raw materials are manufactured into taxable articles in
fraud of the revenue. 44 F: (2d) 951. This Court
granted certiorari, 283 U. S. 816, to resolve the conflict
between the decision below and that of the Court of
Appeals for the S6cond Circuit, in United'States v. Ten
Bottles of Scotch Whiskey, 49 F. (2d)_ 545.
The only questions presented here are whether the
seized articles are within the definition of the statute and
whether forfeiture of them under § 3453 is barred by the
arrest and prosecution of Lewis, who controlled or possessed them, for his violation of the National Prohibition
Law.
Section 3453 1 contains three clauses. The first authorizes forfeiture of taxable "articles" found in the posses'R. S. § 3453. "All goods, wares, merchandise,, articles, or objects,
on which taxes are imposed, which shall be found in the po.session,
or custody, or within the control of any person, for the purpose of

being sold or removed by him in fraud of the internal-revenue laws,
or with design to avoid payment of said taxes, may be seized by the
collector or deputy collector of the proper district, or by such other
collector or deputy collector as mAy bc pitj ly authorized by tie
Conmissioner of Internal Revenue for that piirpose, and shall he forfeited to the United Statcs. And all raw materials found in the possession of any person intending to manufacture (lie same into articles
of a kind subject to tax for the pnrpose of fraudulently selling s.ueh

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1931
Opinion, of the Court.

284 U.S.

sion, custody or eontr;l of any person " fbr the purpose of
being sold or rem( 'ed by him in fraud of the internal revenue laws." The second author'izes, forfeiture off 'raw
materials, found in the possession of any person ntending
to manufacture the same into articles of a kind subject to
tax," with ,intent to defraud the revenue. The third for-

feits "all tools, imp lents, intrument,

dersonal

property whatsoever, in the place or building, or within
any yard or inclosure where such articles or raw materials
are found." To support -therespondent's contention it is
necessar ' to read the phrase "such articles" in the third
clause as not referring to the taxaesble"' aicls" possessed
with intent to defraud the revenue described in the first,
but only to the "articles of a kind subject to tax "',mentioned in the second, read to mean taxable articles which

have- been manufactured on the premises. That the
phrase should be taken to refer to the articles, mentiohned
in both clauses would seem to be an'd' iSSible construction, less restrictive of its natural meaning than that
' •
urged.
We are not called upon to,give a strained interpretation
in order to avoid, a forfeiture. Statutes to jprevent fraud
on the revenue are construed less narrowly, even though
a.forfeiture results, than.'penal statutes and others involving forfeitures. United States' v. Stowell, 133 U. S.
1, 12; Smythe v. Fiske'23 Wall. 374, 380; United States
v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 395, 406; Cliquot's Champagne, 3
Wall. 114, 145; Taylor v. United States, 3 How. 197, 210.
manufactured articles, or with design to evade the payment of said
tax; and all tools,, implements, instruments, and personal property
whatsoever, in the place or building, or within any yard or inclosure
where such articles or raw materials are found, may, also be seized
by any collector or deputy collector, as aforesaid, and-shall be for-

feited as aforesaid. The proceedings to enforce such forfeitures shall
be in the nature of a proceeding in rein in the circuit court or district

court of the United States for the district where such seizure is

made."

UNITED STATES v. RYAN.
167

"

Opinion of the Court.

Section 3453"is a reenactment of § 9 of the Act of July
13, 1866, c. 184, 14 Stat. 98, 11i, amending § 48 of the Act
of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat. 223, 240. The earlier
sections, like the present one, are each made up of three
In the
clauses, .connected by the conjunction "and."
first two acts, they constitute a single sentence; but in the
present section the first clause appears as one sentence
and the other two are combined in a second sentence. The
first two clauses of all three acts are substantially the
same. The third clause of the Act of 1864 provided for
forfeiture of "all tools, implements, instruments, and per-'
sonal property whatsoever, in the place or building, or
within any; yard or enclosure where such articles on which
duties are imposed, as aforesaid, and intended to-be tsed
by them [persons intending to manufacture] in the
fraudulent manufacture of such raw materials, shall be
found.. "' The apparent purpose was to embrace within
the forfeiture at least all personal property seized in the
place where taxable articles are found, but the further
qualification of the taxable articles as those "intended to
be used ... in the fraudulent manufacture of such raw
materials," seems meaningless unless the phrase be transposed and read as meaning "and such raw materials intended to be used... in the manufacture of such articles."
This is the substance of the amendment of 1866, when the
third clause took its present form. We think the purpose
of it was to remove the ambiguity and uncertainty of the
quoted phrase, and not to restrict the forfeiture to chattels
associated with the illicit manufacture, to the exclusion
of those associated with taxable articles possessed with
the purpose to sell or remove in fraud of the revenue,
which were evidently intended to be confiscable by the
section as originally drawn. We cannot assume that so
radical a change, if intended, would have been expressed
by language so plainly capable of the opposite construc
tion as that of the Act of 1866.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Nothing in the legislative history is suggested to indicate that such was the ii: tenition and there is no such plain
or obvious distinction to be made, in a section devised for
the protection of the revenue, between articles associated
with illicit manufacture and those associated with illicit
possession, each equally frauds upon the revenue, as to be
persuasive that the present act was designed to hit the
first and not the second. The companion section, 3450,
authorizing the forfeiture of vehicles and- horses used for
propelling them; made no such distinction. By it, vehicles
used for transporting or concealing taxable articles with
the prescribed intent are-forfeitable, as well as those used
to transport or conceal contraband raw material or implements of manufacture. See Goldsmith-Grant Co. v.
United States, 254 U. S.505; United States v. One Ford
Coupe, 272 U. S. 321.
The separation by the revisers of the first clause from
the other two by a period instead of a semicolon, retaining the conjunction "And,' and the dropping of the conjunction "also" from the second and -third clauses, are
changes hardly substantial enough to warrant any changed
construction of the section. AMcDonald v. Hovey, 110
U. S. 619, 629; Andersorv v. Pacific S. S. Co., 225 U. S.
187, 199; see Buck Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205,
213.
If the point were more doubtful, we should hesitate to
set aside, at this late date, the uniform construction given
to the section with respect to this question by the lower
federal courts for more than sixty years. United States v.
Quantity of Rags, Fed. Cas. No. 16103 (1868); Quantity
of Distilled "Spirits,Fed. Cas. No. 11494 (1868); compare
United States v. Thirtn,-Three Barrels of Spirits, Fed. Cas.
No. 16470 (1868); United States v. Thirty-Six Barrels
of High Wines, Fed. Cas. No. 16468 (1870); see United
States v. Eighteen Barrels High Wines, Fed. Cas. No.
15033 (1871); United States v. Quantity of Tobacco, Fed.

UNITED STATES v. RYAN.
167

Opinion of the Court.

Cas. No. 16106 (1872); compare United States v. Distillery at Spring Valley, Fed. Cas. No. 14963 (1873);
Unid States v.. Sixteen Barrels of Distilled Spirits, Fed.
Cas. No. 16300 (1879); United States v. One Ice Box,
37 F. (2d) 120 (N. D. Ill. 1930); contra, In re Hurley,
37 F. (2d) 397 (W. D. N. Y. 1930); United States v. Ten
Bottles of Scotch Whiskey, 48 F. (2d) 545 (C. C. A. 2d,
1931). By the adoption of § 3453 in the Revised Statutes,
as of December 1, 1873, without, substantial change of the
section as amended in 1866, Congress must be considered
to have adopted the consistent interpretation of the latter as authorizing forfeiture of non-taxed articles found
in a place in which taxed articles are either possessed or
manufactured with intent to defraud the revenue. Sessions v. Ronadka, 145 U. S. 29, 41-42; see McCaughn v.
Hershey Chocolate Co., 283 U. S. 488.
It is said that the construction urged by the Government is inadmissible because so broad as to lead to absurd
results; that it would permit seizure of chattels having
no relation to the taxable articles or their intended sale
or removal, if anywhere in the same building or enclosure,
and might include chattels possessed on the premises by
others having no connection with the taxable articles or
their intended sale or removal. But we do not so construe it. To do so would be to justify penalties having
no relation to the offens6, and the infliction of hardship
on innocent persons unnecessary for the protection of the
revenue. All laws are to be given a sensible construction.
A literal application of a statute which would lead to
absurd consequences is to be avoided whenever a reasonable application can be given which is consistent with the
legislative purpose. United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354;
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394; United
States -v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, 631.
Notwithstanding the broad language of the section, we
think it may be given a reasonable construction, and the

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of'the Court.,

284 U.S.

one, most consistent- With its apparent purpbse, - by the'
application of the principle noscitur'asociis. The taxed
articles and the raw, materials intend6d for naiufactuie
are the principal things aimed at 'by the statute., 'Tools
and implements by their use 'are connected inidents.
By reason and analogy, as well as by context; we conclude
that the general words." all personal property whatsoever" were intended to include chattels -other tlan the
specified tools and implements,- buf'to be frestricted to
those which, like tools or 'iiplements, ate related to one
or the other of the principal things, or- incideit- to their
intended use or dispositiori:in fraud of the revenue.: See
United States v. Thirty-Three Barrels of Spirits supra.
Here the seized articles, being the furnishings and :equip-:
ment of a room in which tax-unpaid intoxicating liquors
were dispensed, were- incident to the sale, and were so
*related to the tax evasion at which -the'statute was aimed
as ,to be clearly,, embraced within both ,its purpose 'and
its words.
Respondent's objection that: forfeiture; under R. S1
§ 3453 is barred by the -arrest and: prosecutioi of the
offender under the National Prohibition Act iswithout
force. It is true that by the express command tof § 26
:of the National Prohibition Act, in all cases of,arrest for
transportation of intoxicating liquors;,. the transporting
vehicle must be seized and proceedings for its forfeiture
had under that section and not under R. S. § 3450. 'Commercial Credit Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.226; Richbourg Motor Co. v.United States, 281 U. S. 528. But by
§ 5 of the Willis-Campbell'Act of November 23, 1921, c.
134, 42 Stat 222, 223, all penalties for violation of the
revenue laws, not directly in conflict with any provision
of the National Prohibition Act, are continued in force.
See United States v. One Ford Coupe, supra. There is
no question here of use of a vehicle for tranisportation,
and there is nothing in the National Prohib.ftion Act nec-

SUN INSURANCE OFFICE v. SCOTT.
'167-

177

Syllabus.

essarily or directly in conflict with the application given
here to the provisions of § 3453.

Reversed.
SUN INSURANCE OFFICE v. SCOTT.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued October 22, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
1. A provision in a policy of fire insurance prohibiting the placing of
a chattel mortgage on the insured property without the consent
of the insurer endorsed on the policy is valid, and its violation
donstitutes a complete defense to an-action upon the policy for a
loss. P. 180.
2. A loss payable clause attached to a policy of fire insurance, providing that any'loss that may be proved due the assured shall be
payable to the assured and a named bank, does not imply knowledge
on th6 part of the insurer of the existence of a chattel mortgage on
the insured property, nor does it constitute a waiver of a condi*tion in the 'policy against mortgaging -or a consent to a mortgage.
P. 180.
3. The fact that an-agent of the insurers, with knowledge of a chattel
mortgage on the insured property, attached to each of three policies
of fire insurance a- loss payable rider making 'any loss under the
policies proved due, the assured payable to the assured and a named
bank, is not sufficient to establish a custom giving to such a clause,
the effect of a consent on the part of the insurer to cange of title
or encumbrance of the insured-property. P. 181..
4. Under § 9586 of .the Ohio General 'Code, which-makes a person
who solicits or takes an application for insurance the agent of'the
company, "anything in the appliction or the policy to the contrary notwithstanding," knowledge of the insurer's agent of a chattel
mortgage on property insured under policies of fire insurance con-'
taiiiing chattel mortgage clauses may not be impfited to the insurers
so as to constitute a consent on the part of the latter that the
policies should remain in force notwithstanding-the encumbrance.
P. 182.
46 F. (2d) 10, reversed.
Togethhr "with No. 29, Noriich Union Fire Insurance Society,
Itd., v. Scott, and, No. 30, Home Insurance Co. v: Scott

