448

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U. S.

the plaintiff on obtaining judgment should be allowed
a reasonable sum as an attorney's fee. The requirement
was mandatory. This court held that in such a case the
attorney's fee was recoverable in the federal court, but
was careful to point out that the amount was "not costs
in the ordinary sense" and hence was "not within the
field of costs legislation" covered by the federal statutes.
In this view, the fact that the amount could not be taxed
as costs in the federal courts did not preclude the recovery. "Since the right exists," said -the Court, "the
federal courts may follow their own appropriate procedure for its enforcement by including the amount of
the fee in the judgment." Id.j p. 244.
The present case is simply one of the amount to be
allowed as witness fees, to be included in the taxable costs,
and the federal satute governs.
The question certified is answered

LEMAN, ADMINISTRATOR, ET A. v. KRENTLERARNOLD. HINGE LAST CO.:
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR- THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 332. Argued January 13, 14, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.
1. One who sues in a federal court of equity to-enjoin infringement of
his patent, thereby submits himself to the jurisdiction of that court
with respect to all the issues in the case, including those pertaining
to a counterclaim praying that he be restrained from infringing the
like patent of the defendant. P. 451.
2. A decree of the District Court perpetually enjoining a party from
infringing a patent binds him personally and continuously throughout the United States; and his disobedience of the prohibition is a
contempt even though committed outside of the district of the

court. Id.
3. A court which has permanently enjoined a party from infringing a

patent, retains jurisdiction to enforce obedience through civil contempt proceedings. P. 452.

LEMAN v. KRENTLER-ARNOLD CO.

449

Opinion of the Court.

448

4. The civil contempt proceeding is part of the main cause. Id.
5. Service of process for the purpose of bringing the respondent
within the jurisdiction of the court is therefore unneeessafy in the
contempt proceeding; actual notice of that proceeding suffices, as
where the respondent appeared for the purpose of objecting to the
jurisliction upon the ground that he had not been brought in by
process, and upon the overruling of the objection, contested his
liability. P. 454.
6. While the distinction is clear between damages to a patent-owner,
in the sense of actual pecuniary loss resulting from infringement,
and the profits made by the infringer, the profits are within the
concept of compensatory relief and are allowed in equity as an
equitable measure of compensation.' P. 455.
7. The profits resulting from an infringement of, a patent committed
in violation of an injunction are recoverable by the injured party in
a civil proceeding for contempt. P. 457.
50 F. (2d) 699, 707, reversed.
District Court affirmed.
CERTRARI

*

to review a decree reversing a decree

entered against the present respondent .by the District
Court in a contempt proceeding for violation of an injunction against infringement of a patent. The court below
sustained the jurisdiction but held that profits-and certain
exp'enses were not allowable in this proceeding by way of
compensation. See also, 13 F. (2d) 796; 24 id. 423.
Mr. Ellis Spear, Jr., for petitioners.
Mr. Robert Cushman, with whom Mr. Otto F. Barthel
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CIM
the Court.

JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the -opinion of

This is a contempt proceeding against the respondent,
Krentler-Arnold Hinge Last Company, for violation of a
permanent injunction granted in an infringement suit.
In that suit, which was brought by the respondent, a
Michigan corporation, in the Federal District Court for
*-Se

table of cases reported in this volumq, '

85912R--32---29

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

the District of Massachusetts, the bill of complaint for
the infringement of the respondent's patents was dismissed
and the counterclaim of the present petitioners for the
infringement of their pate'nt (Peterson patent No. 1,195,266, for hinged lasts for shoes) was sustained. 300 Fed.
834. The decree, as modified, was affirmed by the 'Circuit
Court of Appeals. 13 F. (2d) 796. The decree perpetually enjoined the respondent from making, using or selling
lasts containing the invention covered by designated
claims of the petitioners' patent and "any substantial
or material part thereof, or any substantial equivalent or
colorable imitation thereof." Final decree, after accounting, was entered on March 1, 1928. 24 F.. (2d) 423.
Thereafter the respondent placed upon the market a
"sliding link" hinge which was claimed to be a new invention. The petitioners then (June 4, 1929) brought
the present proceeding for contempt in the court which
had entered the decree.
The order to show cause, with the supporting affidavits,
was served upon the respondent by the delivery of copies
to its attorney of record in the infringement suit and by
the mailing of copies to the respondent at its office in
Michigan. On June 10, 1929, the attorney of record for
the respondent in the infringement suit filed with the
clerk of the court a withdrawal of appearance. The respondent then appeared specially in the contempt proceeding and moved to dismiss the petition "for lack of jurisdiction over the respondent." In support of the motion,
affidavits were presented to the effect that the authority
of the attorney of record in the infringement suit was
terminated on the entry of the final decree, and that the
respondent had no- office or place f business in Massachusetts and had not manufactured, sold or used within
that State the device of which the petitioners complained.
The motion was denied. 'Upon -hearing, the District
Court held the respondent to be guilty of "civil contempt"

LEMAN v. KRENTLER-ARNOLD CO.
448

Opinion of the Court.

for deliberate violation of the injunction and ordered a
reference to a master to take an account of the- profits
made by the respondent through such violation and to ascertain the petitioners' costs and expenses in the contempt proceeding. On the master's report, the District
Court- entered a decree for the recovery-by the petitioners
of $39,576.26 as profits, together with counsel fees, expenses and interest, making a total of 849,292.89. On
appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals deemed it to be clear
that the respondent's new device answered in every respect the claims of the petitioners' patent and thdt "the
question of infringement is not doubtful or even merely
colorable, but certain." The Circuit Court of Appeals
sustained the jurisdiction of the District Court but held
that profits could not be recovered. Certain expenses
were also disallowed, and the deciee of the District Court,
with respect to the amount of -the recovery, was vacated.
50 F. (2d) .699; on rehearing, id., 707. This Court
granted a writ of certiorari.
First. The question of jurisdiction turns upon the nature and effect of the decree in the infringement suit and
the relation to that suit of the contempt proceeding.
When the respondent brought the suit in the Federal District Court for the District of Massachusetts, it submitted
itself to the jurisdiction of the court with respect to all
the issues embraced in the suit, including those pertaining to the counterclaim of the defendants, petitioners here.
Equity Rule 30. See Langdell's Eq. Pleading, c. 5, ยง 119;
Frank L. Young Co. v. McNeal-Edwards Co., 283 U. S.
398, 400. The decree upon the counterclaim boimd the
respondent personally. It was a decree which operated
continuously and perpetually upon the respondent in relation to the prohibited conduct. The decree was binding
upon the respondent, not simply within the District of
Massachusetts, but throughout the United States. Macaulay v. White Sewing Machine Co., 9 Fed. 698; Kessler v.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

Eldred, 206 U. S. 285, 288; Rubber Tire Co. v. Goodyear
Co., 232 U. S. 413,417; HartSteel Co. v. RailroadSupply
Co., 244 U. S. 294, 298, 299; Louisville & Nashville R. Co.
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 250 U. S. 363, 369; Toledo Co. v. Computing Co., 261 U. S. 399, 426. The respondent could not escape the decree by removing from,
or "staying without, the District of Massachusetts.
Wherever it might conduct its affairs, it would carry with
it the prohibition. Disobedience constituted contempt
of the court which rendered the decree, and was none the
less contempt because the act was committed outside the
district, as the contempt lay in the fact, not in the place,
of the disobedience to the requirement.
In view of the nature and effect of the decree in the
infringement suit, it cannot be said that the suit was
terminated in the sense that the court had no further
relatioi to the party subject to its permanent injunction.
The terms of the injunction continued the relation. The
question is not one of an attempted rehearing of the
in-rits-o theontroversy which was determined by the
after
final decree, or of -em-odlification-o-thade-ree
the expiration of, the term in which an application for
that purpose could properly be made. Equity Rule 69;
Roemer v. Simon, 91 U. S. 149; Brooks v. Railway Co.,
101 U. S. 443; Bronson v. Schulten, f04 U. S. 410, 415.
Tiiisproceedingwas for the enforcement of the decree,
hard-an deterand' not to review or alte-r -it.Iw
mined as a proceeding for civil, not criminal, contempt
50 F. (2d) at p. 701. The question of the relation of
such a proceeding to the main suit was fully considered
in the case of Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221
U. S' 418, and it was determined that the proceeding was
not to be regarded as an independent one, but as a part
of the original cause. The court said: "Proceedings for
civil contempt are betweeny the original parties and are
instituted and tried as a part of the main cause." Id,, at*

LEMAN v. KRENTLER-ARNOLD CO.
448

453

Opinion of the Court.

pp. 444, 445. The distinction was made in this. respect
between such proceedings and those at law for criminal
contempt which "are between the public and the defendant, and are not a part of the original cause." In the
Gompers case, the contempt proceeding had been instituted after the entry of the final decree awarding the
permanent injunction and pending an appeal from that
decree. Id., pp. 421, 422. This Court held that the proceeding had been improperly treated as one for criminal
contempt, and, as there had been a complete settlement
of all matters involved in the equity suit, the contempt
proceeding was necessarily ended. The conclusion of
the Court was thus stated (id., pp. 451, 452): "When
the main case was settled, every proceeding which was
dependent on it, or a part of it, was also necessarily
settled-of course without prejudice to the power and
right of the court to punish for contempt by proper proceedings. Worden v. Searis, 121 U. S. 27. If this had
been a separate and independent proceeding at law for
criminal contempt, to vindicate the authority of the
court, with the public on one side and the defendants on
the other, it could not, in any way, have been affected
by any settlement which the parties to the equity cause
made in their private litigation. But, as we have shown,
this was a proceeding in equity for civil contempt where
the only remedial relief possible was a fine payable to
the complainant. The company prayed 'for such relief
as the nature of its case may require,' and when the
main cause was terminated by a termination of all differences between the parties, the complainant did not
require and was not entitled to any compensation or relief
of any other character. The present proceeding necessarily ended with the settlement of the main cause of
which itis a part." See Michaelson v. United States4 266
U. S. 42, 64, 65; Oriel v. Russell, 278 U. S. 358, 363.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

- As the proceeding for civil contempt for violation of the
injunction should be treated as a part of the main cause,
it follows that service of process for the purpose of bringing the respondent within the jurisdiction of the District
Court of Massachusetts was not necessary. The respondent was already subject to the jurisdiction of the court for
the purposes of all proceedings that were part of the
equity suit and could not escape it, so as successfully to
defy the injunction, by absenting itself from the district.
In M]1innesota Co. v. St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, 633, this
Court said that it had decided "many times" that when
a bill is filed in the federal court to enjoin a judgment of
that court, it was "not to. be considered as an original
-bill, but as a continuation of the proceeding at law; so
much so that the court will proceed in the injunction suit
without actual service of subpoena on the defendant, and
though he be a citizen of another State, if he were a party
to the judgment at law." See Dunn v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 1,
3; Krippendorf'v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, 285; Carey v.
Houston & Texas Ry. Co., 161 U.S. 115, 128; Merriam
Co. v,Saalfield, 241 U. S.22, 30, 31. For similar reasons,
after a final decree a party cannot defeat the jurisdiction
of the appellate tribunal by removing from the jurisdiction, as the proceedings on appeal are part of- the cause.
Nations v. Johnson,24 How. 195, 203, 204. As this Court
said in Michigan Trust Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S.346, 353,.
where "there is service~at the beginning of a cause, or if
the party submits to the jurisdiction in whatever form
may be required, we dispense with the necessity of maintaining the physical power and attribute the same force
to the judgment or decree whether- the party remain
within the jurisdiction or not. This is one of the decencies of civilization that no one would dispute." And
ao, with respect to the application of Article IV, ยง 1, -of
the Constitution, "if a judicial proceeding is begun with
is
,U-.i!diction over the person of the party roncered it.

LEMAN v. KRENTLER-ARNOLD CO.
448

Opinion of the Court.

within the power of a State to *bind him. by every subsequent order in the cause." Id.
In this view, nothing more was required in the present'
case than appropriate notice of the contempt proceeding,
and that notice the respondent received. We do not need
-to consider the effect of the service of the order to show
cause with supporting affidavits upon the attorney who
still appeared of record as the attorney for the respondent
in the equity suit, but whose authority was alleged to
have been terminated, or any question of the sufficiency
of constructive notice, as the respondent had actual notice. While the respondent appeared specially for the
purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of the court, this
objection was not upon the ground that the respondent
did not have notice, which manifestly it did have, but
that it had not been brought into the proceeding by service of process in that proceeding, which in view of its
relation to the cause was unnecessary. Its objection on
that ground being overruled, the respondent contested its
liability.
We are of the opinion that the District Court had jurisdiction of the contempt proceeding and of the respondent.
Second. The Circuit Court of Appeals refused recovery
of profits upon the ground that in a Froceeding ifor civil
contempt the relief should be based upon the "pecniary
injury or damage" which he act of disobedience caused
the complaining party, including such reasonable expenses as were incurred in the bringing of the proceeding.
There is no question here that the respondent had made
profits through the -infringing sales in violation of the
injunction, and the amount of the profits was ascertained,
but the appellate court held that the petitioners were
limited to the damages caused by such sales and that no
damages had been shown. We think that the court erred
in imposing this limitation. The fact that a proceeding
for civil contempt is for the purpose of compensatifig

-456

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

the injured party, and not, as in criminal contempt, to
redress the public wrong, does not require so narrow
-,a view of' what should be embraced in an adequate reme,dial award.
1 While the -distinction is clear between damages, in the
sense of actual pecuniary loss, and profits, the latter may
none the less be included in the concept of compensatory
relief., in a suit in equity against an, infringer, profits
are recoverable not by way of punishment but to insure
full compensation to the party injured. As this Court
said in Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620, 653; " The
profits which are recoverable against an infringer of a
patent are in fact a compensation for the injury the patentee has sustained from the invasion of his right.". The
court of: equity in such cases applies familipr principle in
Cconverting
the infringerinto a trustee for the patentee
as regards the profits thus made." Packet Co. v,Sickles,
19 Wall. 611, .617. This is not to say that there isan
actual fiduciary'relation which would give the right to an
accounting for profits regardless of the existence of a basic
claim to equitable relief. Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S.
189, 214, 215. Referring to the case last cited, this Court
succinctly stated the controlling principle in its opinion
in Tilghmanz v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 148,, as follows:
"But,-as has been recently declared by this court, upon
an elaborate review of the cases in this country and in
England, it is more strictly accurate to. say, that a court
of equity, which has acquired, upon some equitable
ground, jurisdiction of a suit for the infringement of a
patent, will not send the plaintiff to a court of law to re,cover damages, but willadminister full relief, by awarding,
as an equivalent or a substitute for legal damages, a compensation computed and measured by the same rule that
courts of equity apply to the case of a trustee who has
wrongfully used the trust property for his own advantage."
Profits are thus allowed "as an equitable measure -of com-

LEMAN v. KRENTLER-ARNOLD CO.
448

457

Opinion of the Court.

pensation." Hamilton Shoe Co. v. Wolf Brothers, 240
U. S. 251, 259. See, also, DowagiacManufacturing Co. v.
Minnesota Plow Co., 235 U. S. 641, 647. In view of the
principles governing the broader relief obtainable in
equity, as contrasted with those applicable in courts of
law, it is apparent that there is no necessary exclusion'of
profits from the idea of compensation in a remedial
proceeding.
The respondent insists that this contempt proceeding
is not a suit in equity, but, as we have seen, the proceeding is a part of the main cause in equity and is for the
enforcement of the decree, and there is no reason why in
such a proceeding equitable principles should not control
the measure of relief to be accorded to the injured party.
It is also urged that an award of profits involves a discovery and accounting from a party charged with a penal
liability. This. argument is also based on a misconception
of the nature of the proceeding, which is not penal but
remedial, and the remedy- should be complete.. Accordingly it has been repeatedly assumed that, in a proceeding
for civil contempt for disobedience to an injunction
granted in an infringement suit, the profits derived from
the violation of the injunction are recoverable. Worden
v. Searls, 121 U. S. 14, 25; Matter of Christensen Engineering Co., 194 U. S. 458, 460; Gordon v. Turco-Halvah
Co., 247 Fed. 487, 490, 492; McKee Glass Co. v. H. C.
Fry Glass Co., 248 Fed. 125, 127.
We are of the opinion that the District Court properly
allowed the profits in question, and, in this respect, the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals modifying the decree of the District Court is reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
C. C. A. reversed.
D. C. affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of the opinion that the
proceedings should have been dismissed for lack of jurisdiction over the respondent.

