SUN INSURANCE OFFICE v. SCOTT.
'167-

177

Syllabus.

essarily or directly in conflict with the application given
here to the provisions of § 3453.

Reversed.
SUN INSURANCE OFFICE v. SCOTT.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued October 22, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
1. A provision in a policy of fire insurance prohibiting the placing of
a chattel mortgage on the insured property without the consent
of the insurer endorsed on the policy is valid, and its violation
donstitutes a complete defense to an-action upon the policy for a
loss. P. 180.
2. A loss payable clause attached to a policy of fire insurance, providing that any'loss that may be proved due the assured shall be
payable to the assured and a named bank, does not imply knowledge
on th6 part of the insurer of the existence of a chattel mortgage on
the insured property, nor does it constitute a waiver of a condi*tion in the 'policy against mortgaging -or a consent to a mortgage.
P. 180.
3. The fact that an-agent of the insurers, with knowledge of a chattel
mortgage on the insured property, attached to each of three policies
of fire insurance a- loss payable rider making 'any loss under the
policies proved due, the assured payable to the assured and a named
bank, is not sufficient to establish a custom giving to such a clause,
the effect of a consent on the part of the insurer to cange of title
or encumbrance of the insured-property. P. 181..
4. Under § 9586 of .the Ohio General 'Code, which-makes a person
who solicits or takes an application for insurance the agent of'the
company, "anything in the appliction or the policy to the contrary notwithstanding," knowledge of the insurer's agent of a chattel
mortgage on property insured under policies of fire insurance con-'
taiiiing chattel mortgage clauses may not be impfited to the insurers
so as to constitute a consent on the part of the latter that the
policies should remain in force notwithstanding-the encumbrance.
P. 182.
46 F. (2d) 10, reversed.
Togethhr "with No. 29, Noriich Union Fire Insurance Society,
Itd., v. Scott, and, No. 30, Home Insurance Co. v: Scott

OCTOBER TERM; 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

CERTIORARI, 283 U. S. 814-815, to review judgments
affirming juidgments against the insurance companies in
three cases involving policies of fire insurance.

Mr. Roland M. Edmonds for petitioners.
Mr. F. S. Monnett, with whom Messrs. James Joyce and
Elwood Murphy were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTiE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent instituted five actions in a common
pleas court in Ohio on as many policies of fire insurance.
The causes were removed to the District Court for Southern Ohio, where they were consolidated, tried together,
and resulted in verdicts and judgments for respondent.
On appeal two of these judgments were reversed, and the
three here under review were affirmed.' We granted
certiorari.
Each suit seeks recovery upon a fire policy issued upon
wool belonging to respondent. In each, defense was made
that he placed a chattel mortgage on the property in
violation of a provision of the policy as follows:
"This entire policy, unless otherwise provided by agreement indorsed hereon or added, hereto, shall be void . . .
if the interest of the insured be other than unconditional
and sole ownership; or if the subject of insurance
be . . . personal property and.be or become incumbered
by a chattel mortgage."
It is admitted that on June 19, 1926, the respondent executed a chattel mortgage on the insured property to a
bank, and that the mortgage continued in force at the time
of the fire. The policies of the Sun Insurance Office and
the Norwich-Union Fire Insurance Society, Ltd., were is'46 F. (2d) 10.

SUN INSURANCE OFFICE v. SCOTT.
177

179

Opinion of the Court.

sued on June 14, 1926. That of The Home Insurance
Company of New York bore date July 6, 1926. Each of

the policies had attached to it a "loss payable clause"
reading substantially as follows:
"Any loss under this policy that may be proved due the
assured shall be payable to the assured and Cumberland
Savings Bank Co., Cumberland, Ohio, subject, nevertheless, to all the terms and conditions of the policy."
These riders were attached by the local agent of petitioners, to the Sun and Norwich policies after their issuance, and to the Home policy on the date it was issued.
To the petitioners' defense of violation of the chattel
mortgage clause, the respondent answered that the loss
payable clause, as a matter of law, constituted a waiver
and a recognition of the interest of the bank as chattel
mortgagee. He averred, moreover, that by custom in the
community in which the policies were written such clause,
was so understood and was customarily used for the purpose of giving the insurers' consent to chattel mortgages.
In the alternative he insisted that under § 9586 of the Ohio
General Code a person who solicits insurance and procures
the application therefor must be held to be the agent of
the party, company or association thereafter issuing a policy upon such application or a renewal thereof, anything in
the application or policy to the contrary notwithstanding;
and that if the loss payable clause did not have the effect
for which he contended, nevertheless the agent who wrote
the policies and attached the clause knew of the existence
of the chattel mortgage, and his knowledge was to be imputed to the insurers and constituted an agreement on
their part that notwithstanding the mortgage the insurance should remain in force.
To this petitioners replied by denying any such custom
as was alleged, and quoted a provision appearing in each
of the policies that "no officer, agent, or other representative of this Company shall have power to waive any pro-

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

vision or condition of this Policy except such as by the
terms of this Policy may be the subject of agreement endorsed hereon or added hereto; and as to such provisions
and conditions no officer, agent, or representative shall
have such power or be deemed or held to have waived
"such provisions or conditions unless such waiver, if any,
shall be written upon or attached hereto."
The Court of Appeals held that under the law of Ohio
i.e chattel mortgage was valid as between respondent
and the bank, and would have avoided the policies except for the loss payable clause, which it held either by
its own force or by-its customary use for the purpose constituted a waiver and consent on the part of the insurers.
On this ground it affirmed the judgments.
We are of opinion that upon the iinconti'adicted factsthe petitioners made out a valid defense to the suits and.
were entitled to directed verdicts in their favor. The provision in the 'policies prohibiting chattel mortgages without consent endorsed on the policy is intended to reduce
the moral hazard, and is a valid stipulation, the. violation of which constitutes a complete defense. Hunt v.
Springfield Fire & Marine Insurance.Co., 196 U. S. 47.
The loss payable clause above.quoted is not informative..
,to the insurer of the existence of a chattel mortgage, but
performs the office of protecting a creditor of the insured
who has no interest in the insured property by ,mortgage
or otherwise against the eventuality of fire loss.
In Bates v. Equitable Insurance Co., 10 Wall. 3, a
policy contained a covenant that if the property were sold
the insurance should cease unless consent of the insirer
to the sale were given in writing. The policy was endorsed, " payable, in case of loss, to E. C. Bates," to whom
it appeared the insured goods had been sold. There was
no evidence except the endorsement of any consent to
accept Bates, the purchaser, as the party whose interest

SUN INSURANCE OFFICE v. SCOTT.
177

'.181

Opinion of the. Court.

was insured. It was said of the practice of making such
loss payable endorsements [p. 37]:
"It is a mode of appointing that the loss of the party
insured shall bepaid by the company to such third person.
.This transaction is a very common mode of furnishing a
species of security by a debtor to his creditor, who may
be willing to trust to the debtor's honesty, his skill and
success in trade, but who requires indemnity against such
accidents as loss by fire, or the perils of navigation ....
"In the face of this frequent use of the two indorsemeits on the policy, it cannot -be held that they imply
of themselves a knowledge of the sale or a consent to
insure the purchaser."
We are of bpinion that the doctrine announced in the
Bates.case is controlling here; that the attachment of a
loss payable clause is entirely consistent with the condition against change of •iterest, or encumbrance of the.
insured property, and does not constitute a waiver of
the condition against sale or mortgaging, or*a consent
thereto.
We find nothing in the record evidencing any customary
.use in the community where the policies were written of a
loss payable clause as a consent to change of title or encumbrance of the subject-matter of the insurance, beyond the fact that in the three instances in question the
agent of the insurers did, with alleged knowledge of the
chattelmortgage, attach to each of the policies a loss payable rider. This is clearly insufficient to establish a cus.tomor to change the normal office of such an endorsement.
The -respondent insists that laying the loss payable
endorsement out of view, the uncontradicted.evidence that
Bracken, the. insurers' local agent, knew of the chattel
mortgage, constitutes a consent on ,the part of the insurers that- the policies should remain in force notwith-.
standfng.the encumbrance. He claims, that ffor this pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

pose the knowledge of the agent is that of his principals.
Reliance is placed upon § 9586 of the Ohio General Code,
which makes a person who solicits or takes an application
for insurance the agent of the company,. "anything in
the application or the policy to the contrary notwithstanding." He asserts that the decisions of the Ohio
courts interpreting this statute are to the effect that
the agency thus imputed to the solicitor extends to all
matters of contract with respect to the policy, including
consent to the alteration of its terms.
On its face the statute does not go so far. We have
examined the authorities cited and fail to find that they
give it any such force or effect.2 They do not, as respondent claims, define the scope of the agency created by
the statute, but leave it to be defined by applicable principles of common law. In the present cases the policy
limits its scope, and we think the written contract must
control.
For the reasons given it is clear that the petitioners
did not waive the condition against encumbrance nor consent to the giving of the chattel mortgage, and that there
was nothing in the situation which deprived them of their
defense based upon that condition.
In the petition for the writ of certiorari and in the argument other defenses made by the petitioners, which the
courts below overruled, were press ed upon us. It is unnecessary to consider them, as what we have said disposes
of the cases.
The judgments must be reversed and the causes remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.
'Foster v. Insurance Co., 101 Ohio St. 180; 127 N. E. 865; Hartford Fire Ins. Co. v. Glass, 117 Ohio St. 145; 158 N. E. 93.

