CUMBERLAND COAL CO. -v. BOARD.

23

Counsel for Parties.

CUMBERLAND COAL CO. v. BOARD OF REVISION'
OF TAX ASSESSMENTS. IN,,; GREENE COUNTY,
-PENNSYLVANIA.*
ERIORARU TO TE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVAWIA.

No. 7. Argued October 16, 19, 1931.--Decided November 23, 1931.
1. A federal question which was entertained by~a state supreme court
and decided on apetition fdr reargument is reviewable here. Jud.
,-6
Code, §.237 (b): 'P. 24.
2. Discrimination in state ad valorem taxation, resulting from intentional, systimatic undervaluation of some property as compared
with the valuation of other property of the. same class in other
ownership, violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, even though the property so discriminated against be
not assessed higher than its fair market value;- or higher than a
percentage of fair-market value adopted as a unif 6rm basis in .nking
th" assessments. Pp. 25, 28.
The property considered was virgin coal, of uniform quality and'
thickness, underlying the taxing district. The tading authorities
assigned a uniform value -per acre to all of it, notwithstanding that
those lands which were near to a river were, because of access to
transportation, etc., several times more valuable than those that
were farther away. The assessment was made on the uiform basis
of 50% of the values assigned.
302 Pa. 179; 152 Atl. 755, reversed.
CERTioRAm,. 283 U. S. 812-813, "to review judgments
which affirmed the dismissal, by the Court of Common'
Pleds. of Pennsylvania, of appeals from tax assessments.

Mr. Arthur B. Van Buskirk, with whom .A 6srs. 'Wiliam A. Sifert, Samuel McClay; W. J. Kyle, and Carl
E. Glock were on the brief, for petitioners.
Together vith Nos. 8, 9, and 10, Cumberland Coal (Co. v. Board
of Revision of Tax Assessments; No: 11, Phillips v. Board of Revision
of Tax.Assessments; No. 12, Piedmont Coal Co. v: Board of Revision
of Tax Assessments; and No. 13, Greene County Coal Co. v. Board
*

of Revision of Tax Assessments:

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1.931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

Mr. Challen W. Waychof], with whom Messrs. A. A.
Purmrn and. Ambrose Bradley were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.CHMF

JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These seven cases were heard together in the state court
and decided in a single opinion, as they were deemed to
present but one question. They relate to assessments for
taxation of the coal lands of the petitioners, for the year
1928, in several townships of Greene County, Pennsylvania.
Taking as typical the assessment of coal lands in the
township of Cumberland, it appears that petitioners, on
appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of Greene County,
assailed the plan of assessment adopted by the Commis.sioners of the County sitting as a Board of Appeal for the
Revision -and Equalization of Assessments. Petitioners
alleged that the valuation placed upon their coal was unjust and discriminatory, as the Commissioners had "assessed all coal in the same township (except what is
termed 'active coal') at the same valuation, regardless of
the remoteness or accessibility of the said coal to market,
cost of operation, or means of transportation and regardless of the difference in value and without due reg~ia
to the valuation and assessment of other coal and 'other
classes of real estate in the County of Greene."., The
Court of Common Pleas, on findings, of fact and conclusions of lasw, -dismissed the appeals, and the decrees were
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 302 Pa.
179; 152 Atl. 755. The specific contention that the,plan
of assessment violated the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment was presented by petition for
reargument. and was considered and was explicitly" ovorruled by the Supreme Court. As the state court'entertained and decided the federal question, this Court has
jurisdiction. Jud. Code, § 237 (b); U. S. C., Tit. 28.

CUMBERLAND COAL CO. v. BOARD.
23

25

Opinion of the Court.

§ 344. Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S. 79, 85; Sullivdn v.
Texas, 207 U. S. 416, 422; Illinois Central R. Co. v. Kentucky; 218 U. S. 551, 556; Fleming v. Fleming, 264 U. S.
29, 31.
There is no question that the assessments under review
were made pursuant to a deliberately adopted system.
The case is not one of mere errors in judgment in following a proper method (Sunday Lake Iron Ca. v. Wakefield,
247 U. S. 350, 352, 353; Southern Railway Co. v. Watts,
260 U. S. 519, 526), but. one where the challenged discriin= tion resulted from a plan'of assessment which was
-none The less systematic and intentional because of belief
in its Validity. Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co.,
207 U. S. 20, 35, 37; Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota,
County, 260 U. S. 441, 445; Chicago Great WesterA Ry.
Co.v. Kqndall, 266 U. S. 94, 98, 99.
From the facts as found by the Court of Common Pleas,
it .appears that the petitioners' property in question is.
virgin coal .(as distinguished from "active coal," that is.
coal which "is opened.and mined" 1) and is part of the
Pittsburgh or River vein. That is a continuous vein of
bituminous coal underlying the whole of Greene County
and is "practically of the same character, quality and
thickness." Greene County is bounded on.the east by the
Monongahela River, and the Pittsburgh or River vein
extends westerly. for several miles through a number of
townships. The coal immediately along the river front, by
reason of proximity to rail and river transportation, is
more valuable than the "back coal," and the value.of the
coal decreases with the distance from the river. Within a'
distance of about three miles westerly from the river,
The court found that " where the coal is opened and mined," the
Commissioners " have assessed one hundred acres as active coal, and
if the amount of coal mined exceeds seventy-five acres for the year
1927 they have increased the acreage of the active coal to two hundred
.fifty acres.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

26

Ophuion of the Court.

284U.S.

mining ,operations are being conducted. In madng the
triennial assessments for the taxation of property ad
valorem, the, Commissioners adopted as a uniform basis'
for all property fifty per cent. of the amount taken as
actual value. The Commissioners then assigned different
values for the coal in -the different townships of the
county, but assessed thecoalwithin the sam township at'>
the same value an acre notwithstanding differences in
actual or market value due to distances from transportation facilities and to other factors.
Cumberland Township adjoins the Monongahela River
and extends westerly about 'nine miles. All the coal
* in the Pittsburgh or River vein within the limits of this
township, except what Was described, as " active coal,"2
was assessed by the Commissioners (on the fifty per cent.
basis) at $260 an acre, despite the fact that the coalalong
the river, and for a considerable. area (mu6h. more than.
250 acres 8) around the operating plants, was worth $1,000
an acre.
The petitioner, Cumberland Coal Company, owns
64,574-acresof the Pittsburgh or River vein pf coal within
Greene County, of which 9i237 acres fie in Cumberland
Tcwnship and consist (with the exception of two small,
detached tracts not here involved) of a block of coal ex. tending from a point distant 2/4 miles westerly from the
Monongahela River to the western boundary of the town.ship. With respect to the difference"n ,actual value of
that petitioner's coal, distant from the river, as compared
with coal of the same sort belonging to. other owners and
more favorably located, the Court of Common Pleas expressly found as follows:
"The Pittsburgh or River vein of coal of appellant
(petitioner here) '5lying a distance of three miles west
of the Monongahela River and extending bacli a distance
2

' Active coal" was assessed at $500 an acre.
'See Note"l, supra..

CUMBERLAND COAL CO. v. BOARD.
23

Opinion of the Court.

of three miles, or six miles from the river, does not possess a value of more than one-half of the. value of the
same vein of coal fronting on the Monongahela River,
belonging to others than appellant, and extending back a
distance of three miles westwardly."
In attempted justification of the. discrimination, the
Court of Common Pleas adverted to the fact that other
owners f coal in ihis vein were9
aso assessed for " active
coal" and for buildings, equipment and, real estate con0stititing:"operating properties." But such assessmets
appear to have been made for items in a different class of
properties and the complaint of the petitioner is not with
respect to such items, but as to the discrimination in the
assessment of coal of the same character and description
within the township- (that is, exclusive of active coal and.
operating properties) which was assessed at-the same figure of $260 an acre throughout the township notwithstanding the great differences in actual value according
to location.
it is not necessary to deal with disparities in the assess-.
ments of coal in the same vein in other townships of
Greene .County, as these assessments present essentially
the same question., Ngr is ,it
necessary to eialarge uponthe facts, as the Supreme Court of the State made no
-question as to these and deal., specifically with the question of law which they raise. That questioii was definedand answered by the Supreme Court n its opinion, as
follows:
."Appellants' counsel state their position thus: Town-,
ship assessors and county commissioners sitting as'a board.
of revision may not assess all bituminous coal in the
Pittsburgh or river vein within the .territorial limits of 'a
township at the same value, dis.egarding differences in
actual or market, values by reason of &eat differences of.
distance from the river-or rail transportation and other.
'factors entering into values whetrQ it is undisputed thtlt.

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1931. .
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

the actual or market value of the coal varies throughout
the township :and'that the coal fronting on the river and
railroads possesses a value twice that of the coal lying
back from the river and extending to a distance of nine or
ten miles. Our answer must be that they may so assess
it, and the courts may not alter individual assessments,
provided they do not fix the value at a figure in .each instance greater.than the fair market value of each owner's
property, or, as in'the cases before us, higher than the-percentage of value, here fifty per cent. uniformly fixed
throughout the county.
"None of the appellants has shown that its or his property in the market .is not worth double the assessment
fixed by the' ounty commissioners and court below.
Since they fixed fifty per cent, of market value'as they
conceived it to be, appellants without showing a less value
for their properties, have no standing to complain.
The fifty per cent. ratio throughout the county
having been uniformly fixed and a'pellants not having
shown that- their assessments as made are in excess of
fifty per cent. of the fair market values of their property,
have no standing to complain, it* matters n6t what other
assessments of other properties not before us may be."
302 Pa. at lp. 182-184; 152 Atl. 755.
And, on the petition for reargument, presenting the
federal question, the Supreme Court, modifying its first
order denying the petition, said, upon consideration, that
the Court was "of opinion that the plan of assessment
in these cases does not violate the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States."
We are unable to agree with this view. It is established that the intentional, systematic undervaluation by
state officials of taxable property of the same class belonging to other owners contravenes the constitutional
right of one taxed upon the full value of his property.

CUMIBERLAND COAL CO. v. BOARD.
23

29

Opinion of Ihe Court.

Sunday Lake 'Irn Co. -v,IWakefild, supra'Sioux City'
Bridge Co. v. Dakota County, supra; Raymond v, Chi".cago Uniom Traction*Co., supra; Chicago Great Western
Ry. C6. v..K-endall, supra. In Sioux':City:Brdge Co.. v.
Dakota County, supra '(at p. 446)., this Court, referring
to the dilebiam, presented by a case whei one or a few
.of a lass of"taxpayrs.-'are assessed at,.on-huindred per
cent. of -the Vialue'oftheir property pursuan't to statutory
-requirement .and the rest'of the °cla$-are ijentignally
assessed at a lower percentage, stated the-rule to be as
-follows; ",This Court holds that the righ'of 'the tax-,
payer 4vhose polPerty alone is taked at 100 pe- cent. 'f
its true value. is to- have his-.assssment reduced .tothe
percentage of that -#lue at which others are taxedeven
"though this is a deparfure-f rom the requirement- of :statut6. The concusion is based on'the piinciple' that *here
it is unpossible to. secure both the standard 9f -the -tkue
value and the uniformity and. equality, required by ]aw,
the latter requirement is-'to b6 preferied as the just and
ultimate purpose of the law."
-In.applying this prhiciple, ih. fact -that a uniform per,centage'of 'assigned valu~s is used,cainot be. Kegdedas_'.
pe:
4t
important' if, in -assigning the valies .i&.which
centage is applied, asystem is' deliberat.ly-adopted WhicYl
ignores 'differences-in actualvalues so tt pr6p y fithe'
xpvafIed7
's me class as- that of th complainin taxpayer'is
at the'same figure (according t&.the uuit 6f valuati6n; as,
for. example, an acre) -as the .propert- qf -other.. owners-

which has ai actual valueaditted

higher. 'A

Upr

the same ratio to-the samn assigned valus, when the aciual
p1Yvalues differ, 6t.ates.the saim disparit-in effec-t
ing a different ratio, to actual values'wtierfhe tsttefrpa:thie

same.

If the Commissi.ners- in. the instant ct,..tuid

taken the basis of one hundred: er' cent.'.ii.ead '
per cent. of-th6 assigned values, butliad adopted the same
.'mto'
method -of assessment by: which all the eoal I

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

"284U.S.

(aside from active coal) was assessed at the same value
an acre, despite well known and important differences
in value, the result would have been an undervaluation
of similar coal belonging to other owners, which would
have brought the case of the petitioners within the principle -of the decisions cited. In such case, if the petitioners' property had been valued at one hundred per cent.
of its actual value, the like property of the other owners,
haviing a higher actual.value, would in effect have been
valued-at less than one hundred per cent. The discrimmination is essentially the same, and is equally repugnant to constitutional right, when both assessments are
made on the basis of fifty per cent. of assigned values and
differences in actual values are deliberately and systematically disregarded. The undervalued property is in effect
valued at less than fifty per cent. of its actual value; for
example, coal of the same description worth twice -as
much as that of the Cumberland Coal Company was
really valued at twenty-five per cent. of 'its actual value.
The petitioners are entitled to a readjustment of the
assessments of their coal so as to put these assessments
upon a basis of equality, with due regard to differences in
actual value, with other assessments of th6 coal of the
same class within the tax district.
The decrees are reversed and the causes are remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
SANTOVINCENZ0, CONSUL OF THE KINGDO1.M
OF ITALY AT NEW YORK, v. EGAN, PUBLIC

ADMINISTRATOR,

ET_ AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SURROGATES' COURT OF THE COUNTY OF
NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK

No. 31.

Argued October 22, 1931,--Decided November 23, 1931.

1: Case from a state court, involving thBe construdtion and application
of treaties, held reviewable by certiorari. P,85,

