IOWA-DES MOINES BANK v. BENNETT.

239

Counsel for Paties.
IOWA-DES MOINES NATIONAL BANK v. BEN-

NETT, CHAIRMAN, ET

AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 15. Argued October 19, 20, 1931.-Decided December 14, '1931.
1.. A state tax on the shares of stock of a national bank at rates
greater than those applied in exacting paymexit of domestic corporations in competition with it, exceeds the permission of Rev.
Stats. § 5219, and is therefore invhlid. P. 244.
2. Intentional, systematic discrimination on- the part of a State in
exacting taxes on the shares of national and state banks at a higher
rate than is applied to domestic corporations in competition with
them, violates the equal protection clause'of the Fourteenth Amendment. P.. 245.
3. Though discrimination in assessing and collecting state taxes be
not due to inequality in the state law itself, but to the unauthorized
and illegal acts of subordiffate taxing officials in applying it. the
State is none the less chargeable with the discrimination, where tt
insists upon retaining the higher tax exacted in its name, and is
sustained in so doing by its highest court. Barney v. New York
City, 193 U. S. 430, distinguished. Pp. 244--246.
4. A taxpayer who has been subjected to discriminatory state taxation
through the favoring of others in-violation of his federal right, is
entitled to recover the excess paid. He is not required to assume
the burden of seeking to have the others' taxes increased; nor need
he await such action by the state officials on their own initiative.
P. 247.
Iowa -;

232 N. W. 445; reversed.

CERTIORARI, 283 U. S. 813, to review judgments sustaining state taxes in mandamus proceedings brought by two
banks against county officers to compel refunds.

Messrs. J. G. Gamble anl A. B. Howland for petitioners'
Together with No. 16, Central State Bc.nk v. Bennett, Chai'man,

et al.

S240

OCTOBERI,-TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

2S4 U.S.

Messrs. Eskil C. Carl son and Charles Hutchinson, with
whom Messrs. Maxwell A. O'Brien and George A. Wilson
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

These cases are here on certiorari to tle Supreme Court
of Iowa. They were argued together and involve, in the

main, the same questions. The petitioner in No. 15 is
the Iowa-Des Moines National Bank. The petitioner in
No. 16 is the Central State Bank, an Iowa corporation.
In eachcase, it is charged that, for the years 1919, 1920,
1921 and 192, the taxing officers of Polk Counity exacted
from petitibner taxes on shares of its stock at rates higher
than were exacted of competing moneyed capital; and
that in 1923 petitioner paid the taxes with interest and
penalties under protest, after threat of seizure of its property. In each case it is alleged. that this-unequal taxation
contravened both the state law and the equal protection.
is
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. In No. 15, 'it
also charged that § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States was violated. In each case the petitioner
seeks by an action of mandamus to compel the appropriato
county officers to refund the part of the taxies alleged to
have been illegally exacted, and the interest and penalties.
The county officers denied the discrimination charged and
also set up many special defenses.
The trial court, after hearings which occupied more
than sixteen weeks,. denied relief in each case without
making findings of fact or rendering an opinion. Its judgments were affirmed in the highest court of the State by
a divided bench. 232 N. W. 445. The case is before us
on an extensive record; but we have n'o occasion to
examine the controverted issues of fact and of state law.

IOWA-DES MOINES BANK v. BENNETT.
239

241

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court found, or assumed, that. the systematic discrimination charged was in fact made; that
the shares of the. favored domestic 'corporations constituted a relatively material part of other moneyed capital
employed in substantial competition with the business of
the banks; and that the unequal exaction -complained of
violated the laws of Iowa. We have to consider only the
legal effect under the federal law of this-wrongful administration of the state law. There is no challenge of the
validity'of any state statute.
The taxes exacted from the petifioners were laid under
Iowa Code, § 1322-1a, Supplement, 1913. That section
imposes upon "state, savings and national bank stock
and lban sAd trust company stock and moneyed capital,"
an ad valorem tax based upon twenty per cent. of the
actual value thereof, computed at the same rate at which
tangible propery' is taxed uider the consolidated levy
for local, county and state purposes. Compare First
National Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 341, 343. For the
,years in question, this levy ranged from 137.8 mills to
164 mills-the equivalent of- 27.5 mills to 32.8 mills on
the actual value. By the terms of § 1322-1a, taxes on
the same basis should also have been laid upon shares
of competing domestic corporations and upon other
moneyed capital comiig similarly into competition with
.both the. national and the state- banks. But the taxes,
laid upon shares of. such competing domestic corporations were, in fact, at the rate of only 5 mills on the
.actual value. This discrimination occurred because to
them was applied, not § 1322-la-, but § 1310, Supplement 1913. The latter section prescribes a tax of 5
mills on the dollar upon the full value of "moneys,
credits and corporation shares of stock,, except as otherwise provided, .. . and notes, including. those secured

r,

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

by mortgage,..." 1 Thus the taxes laid uppn the shares
of the competing domestic corporations were at a rate
only one-fifth to one-seventh of that -applied to the
shares of the petitioners..
The wrongful discrimination so effected was not attributable to any at of the assessing body.2 The shares
in such competing domestic corporations had, in each
year, been properly classified by. the assessor in compliance with § 1322-.1a; but the county auditor, in making up the tax list subsequently, changed" these assessifents and wrongfully extended them upon the books
as "moneys and credits" subject to the 5 mill levy. In
this form the tax was certified by the auditor to the
county treasurer for collection; and the treasurer exacted taxes in accordance with -the auditor's certification.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, having found or assumed
that there was, systematic'discrimination, as charged, in
favor of shares in the competing domestic corporations,
deniied relief because it held that the auditor's acts in
disregarding assessments properly made were a usurpaSection 1310 expressly excepts from its operation "all moneyed
capital wiithin the meaning of section fifty-two hundred nineteen of
the Revised Statutes of the United States," and provides that such
capital "shall be listed and assessed . . . at the same rate as state,
"savings,national bank and loan and trust company stock is'taxed
....
and at the actual value of the moneyed capital so invested."
Other competing moneyed capital in the form of investments held
by individuals and -by a few foreign corporations was wrongfully
classified by the assessor as "moneys and credits," and so returned
upon the assessment rolls to the county auditor, who extended the
assessments ulion the tax books accordingly, and applied-to them the
5 mill levy. The Supreme Court of Iowa held that the right to
complain of this discrimination had been lost by- failure to avail of
the method of review prescribed by the State. We have no occasion
to consider this mntter, as we hold that the'more favorable taxation
of the competing domestic corporations entitles the petitioners to the
Irelief sought.

IOWA-DES MOINES BANK.v. BENNETT.
239

243

Opinion of the Court.

tion of power'and a nullity; that the c6unty treasurer
was not bound- to accept the auditor's unauthorized cer-'
tification; and that his exaction of the taxes in" accordance therewith was, therefore, also unauthorized.3 The
Court declared that, since the.wrongful exaction was made
without authority from the State, it did not constitute
discrimination by the State; declared that, since neither
the auditor nor the treasurer had power to discharge a
legally assessed tax, the competing domestic corporations remain,- so far as appears, liable 'for the balance
of the assessments; and held that the petitioners had no
other remedy than to await action by the taxing authori"'The Iowa court describes (232 N. W: at p. 451) the functions of
the several taxing officers: "The assessment is made.in the first instance by the local assessor, who lists and classifies the property and
makes valuations. He then lays the assessment rolls before the local
board of review. The local board of review adjusts the .assessments,
'in such manner as to secure the listing of property at its actual value
and the assessment of property at its taxable value' and adds 'to the
assessment rolls any taxable property not included therein . .. as the
assessor should have done.' Code Supp. 1913, §§ 1360, 1370. When
the corrections have been.made, the assessor makes up the assessos
book and returns it to the county auditor together with the assessment
*rolls. Id. § 1366. The county bbard of review equalizes class valua-'
* tions between political subdivisions of the county, and the state board of review equalizes between the counties. Id. Code 1897, §§ 1375,
i379' The classification and assessment by the assessor, as approved
*by the board of review, determines the levy or rate to be applied...
The assessments.'and the rate to be paid by the several taxpayers as
between themselves are complete and are determined when the assessor returns the 'assessment rolls and assessment book to the county
auditor, subject to class modification by the county and state boards
of review and to change by the court if appeal ha been taken. The
*remainder of the process of taxation is one of collection and enforcement of the taxes as so assessed. This is ministerial. The auditor's
duty. is to transcribe the assessments'into. the ta book and make the
necessary computations and extensions and clerical corrections. This
,duty is merely- clerical and ministerial."

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

ties to collect the taxes remaining due from their competitors or to initiate proceedings themselves to compel such
collection. In other words, it held that no right of petitioners under the state law was violated, because they
were not overassessed; that no right under the federal
law was violated, because the lower taxation of their competitors due to usurpation by officials was not an act of
the State; and that the discrimination thus effected was
remediable only by correcting the .wrong linder the state
law in favor of the' competitors and not, "by extending
. . . the benefits as of a similar wrong" to the petitioners.
The decision rests upon a misconception of the scope and
effect of the federal righ ts involved.
First. The' Iowa-Des Moines National Bank is an
instrumentality of the United States, and but for § 5219
the State would be without power to tax its shares. First
National Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. 9. 341, 347. That section permits a State to tax national bank shareholders if,
and only so far as, the taxation is not at a rate greater
"than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of such State." The- limits
of this permission were transgressed when the treasurer"
exacted from this petitioner taxes- at rates greater than
those applied in exacting payment from the competing
domestic corporations. Supervisors v. Stanley,. 105 U. S.
305, 318; Stanley v. Supervisors of Albany, 121 U. S.535,
550, 551. Compare First National Bank of Hartford v.
Hartford, 273 U. S. 548, 560. The discrimination was
none the less action by the State although the auditor and
the treasurer, in failing to give equal treatment, acted
without authority and contrary to the law of the State.
"It is a question of the power of.the State as a whole;" 4
Rippey v. Texas, 193 U. S. 504, 509,. citing Missouri v. Dockery,
191 3. S. 165, 171. Compare Coulter v. Louisville & Arashville R.
Co, 196 U. S. 599, 609; ffayman v.Galveston, 273 U. S. 414 416.

-

IOWA-DES MOINES BANK v. BENNETT.
239

245

Opinion of the Court..

and for the purpose of determining whether the limitations imposed by § 5219 have been observed, the powers
of the several state officialsmust be treated as if merged
in a single officer. The condition imposed by the federal
law was not satisfied by the enactment by the State of
appropriate legislation for the taxation of other moneyed
capitall and the commitment, to- subordinate officers of
the duty of determining what constitutes such capital.
The responsibility of the State for the propriety of that
determination remained. Moreover, since the State now
insists upon retaining the higher tax exacted from the
national bank, and-is sustained in so doing by its highest
court, the discriminatory action cannot be said to be the
act of. the individual officials. Montana National Bank
v. Yellowstone County, 276 U. S. 499, 504, 505.
Second. Both petitioners claim that they have been
subjected to intentional, systematic discrimination in violation of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The federal right of the Centf'al State
Bank rests wholly upon that clause. It is assumed that
there was such inequality of treatment as the Constitution prohibits. Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co.,
207 U. S. 20, 37; Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota
County, 260 U. S. 441, 446; Cumberland Coal Co. v.
Board of Revision, ante, p. 23. Compare Sunday .. ake
Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350, 353. But the Iova
court, without denying the lack of power of ithe State to
authorize the discrimination effected, holds.that such discrimination does not violate the federal Constitution
because it resulted from the act' of private individuals
and not of the State. The prohibition of the Fourteenth
Amendment, it is true, has reference exclusively to action
by the State, as distinguished from action by private- individuals. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S..'313, 318; United
States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629, 639. But acts done "by
virtu6 of a public position under a State Government.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

.284 U.S.

...and in the name and for the State," Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 347, are not to be treated. as if they
were the acts of private individuals,- although in doing
them the official acted contrary to an express command of
the. state law. When a state official, acting under color
of state authority, invades, in the course of his duties, a
private right secured by the federal Constitution, that
right is violated, even if the state officer not only exceeded his authority but disregarded special commands
of the state law.' Here, the exaction' complained of was
made by the treasurer in -the name of and for the State, in
the course of performing his regular duties;-the money is
retained by the State; and the judicial power of the State,
has been exerted in just fying the retention. Compare
Montana National Bank v. Yellowstone County, supra;
Carpenterv. Shaw, 280 U. S. 363, 369.
Respondents rely upon Barney v. City of New York,
193 U. S. 430; 438. The question there decided was that
the lower federal court had properly dismissed a bill in
equity since it appeared upon its face that the act complained of was forbidden by the state legislation. We
have no occasion to discuss that case.' Here the petition'Neal v. 'Delaware,103 J. S. 370, 397; Yick Wo v. Hopkins; 118
U. S. 356, 373, 374; Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los-Angeles,
227 U. S. 278, 287, 288; Cuyahoga Power Co. v. Akron, 240 U. S.
462, 464. Compare Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., supra;.
Greene v. Louisville & Interurban 1?. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 507, 508;
Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426, 434; Jiopkins v.
Southern California Telephone Co., 275 U. S. 393, 398. See also
Chicago Great Western Ry. Co. v. Kendall, 266 U. S. 94,.98. Cases
discussing the question of what constitutes a suit against the State
within the meaning of th6 Eleventh Amendment, such as x' parte
'Young, 209 U. S. 123; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Andrews,.
216 U. S. 165; Looney v. Crane Co., 245 'U. S. 178; Public Service Co.
v. Corboy, -250 U. S. 153, have no bearing upon the power of this
Court to protect rights secured by the federal Constitution.
'See Samuel Shepp Isseks, "Jurisdiction of the :Lower Federal
Courts to Enjoin Unauthorized Action of State Officials," 40 Harv.
L. Rev. 969.

IOWA-DES MOINES BANK v. BENNETT. .247
-

239

.Opinion of the Court.

ers sued in a state court. Some expressions in the opinion in the Bdrney case, said to be inconsistent-wit? the
-conclusions stated above, have been'disapproved by this
Court. Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles,
227 U. S. 278, 294.
Third. The fact that the State may still have power to
equalize the treatment of the petitioners and the competing domestic corporations by compelling the latter to
pay hereafter the unpaid balance of the amounts assessed
against them in. 1919, 1920, 1921 and 1922 is not material. The' petitiohes', rights were violated, and the
causes of action arose, when taxes at the'lower rate were
collected from their competitors. It may be assumed
that all ground for a claim for 'refund Would have fallen
if the State, promptly upon discovery of the discrimination, had removed it by collecting the additional taxes
*from the favored competitors. - By such collection the
petitioners' grievances would have been redressed- for
these are not primarily overassessment. _The right invoked is that to equal treatment; and such treatment
will be attained if either their competitors' taxes are in-creased or their own reduced. But it is well settled that.
a.taxpayer who has been subjected to discriminatory taxation through the favoring of others -in violation Pf fed-.
eral law, cannot be required himself -to assume the burden of seeking an increase of the taxes which the others
should have paid. -Cumberland Coal Co. v. Board of*Revision, supra; Greene v. ,Lozdsville-& Interurban R.Co., 244 -U. S. 499, 514-518; Chi6go. Great Western Ry.
Co. v. Kendall, 266 U; S. 94, 99; Siqux City Bridge Co. .v.
Dakota County, supra. Nor may he be remitted to the*necessity of awaiting such action, by the state officials*
upon their own initiative. Moinana N~ational Bank V.
Yellowstone County, supra.The petitioners" are entitled to obtain in these suits
refund*of the excess of taxes exacted'from. them..
Reversed.-

0

