MECOM v. FITZSIMMONS CO.

183

Statement of the Case.

MECOM, ADMINISTRATOR, v. FITZSIMMONS
DRILLING CO., INC., ET A.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH: CIRCUIT.

No. 32. Argued October 22, 23, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
1. Where, under a statute giving a right to recover for death by
wrongful act, the administrator, if one is appointed, is required to
bring the suit, is charged with responsibility for its conduct or settlement and the distribution of its proceeds to the persons entitled
under the statute, and is liable upon his official bond for failure
to act with diligence and fidelity, he is the real party in interest and
his citiz~ship rather than that of the beneficiaries is looked to in
determining whether the suit is removable to the federal court.
P. 186.
2. In the case of suits by administrators to recover for death by
wrongful act, the same rule as to federal jurisdiction on the ground
of diversity of citizenship applies whether the statute provides that
the amount recovered shall be for certain relatives of the decedent
or be general assets bf the estate. Id.
3.-Statutes of Oklahoma make the administrator (if there be one)
the trustee of an express trust and require suit to recover for death
by wrongful act to be brought and controlled by him. Comp.
Stats., Okla., 1921, § 824. Id.
4. In determining the right to remove to the federal court an action
brought by an administrator who was regularly appointed by a
state probate court, the appointment cannot be attacked collaterally,
nor the removal be sustained, upon the ground that his selection
was brought about by collusion between him, his predecessor'and
an attorney for the purpose of preventing removal by reason of his
citiz.enship. P. 189.
47 F. (2d) 28, reversed.

CERTORARI, 283 U. S. 815, to review a judgment affirming a judgment against the administrator in a suit to
recover for a death by wrongful act. The case is stated
fully in the opinion.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

"284U.S.

Mr. Roy F. Ford, with .whom Messrs. S. J. Montgomery, Theodore H. Haugh, and. A. H. Meyer were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. T. Austin Gavin. and George F. Short, with
whom Messrs. Horace H. Hagan, Ray S. Fellows, Thomas
R. Freeman, and Josepih A. Gill, Jr., were on -the brief,
for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBETS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Smith, a ciizen and-resident of Oklahoma, died as a
result of injuries alleged to have been negligently inflicted
by the respondents. His widow was appointed administratrix of his estate by an Oklahoma probate court, and,
as such, instituted an action for damages in a district court
of that state, against the respondents and certain individuals, under a statute I creating, a cause of action for death
by wrongful act. Such a proceeding is required to be
brought by the administrator,. if there be one. The
amount recovered does not constitute assets of the estate,
but is to be divided between the widow :and children.
-The cause was remowQed to the United States District.
Court. The administratrix filed a motion to remand,
which was overruled. She then dismissed the action.
Subsequently she brought a second suit as administratrix,
against the respondents and certain of their employees,
upon the same cause 6f action, in a district court of Oklahoma; and a little later brought a third against the
same or some of the same defendants in another state district court. Both were removed into the appropriate.
United States District Courts. Motions to remand were
1§§ 822-825, Comp. Stat. Okla. 1921.

MECOM v. FITZSIMMONS CO.
183

•185

Opinion of the Court.

overruled, and, both were thereupon dismissed by the
plaintiff.
The widow resigned as administratrix and upon her
request the probate court appointed petitioner as administrator. He was and is a resident and citizen of Louisiana.,
of which state the respondent Fitzsimmons Drilling Com-%
pany is also a-citizen. He filed the present action in a
state court, and the respondents, again removed to the
United States District Court. The- petitioner having
moved to remand, the respondents answered charging
fraud ahd cllusion on the part of the widow, her attorney,
and the petitioner, the alleged object of which -wasto prevent removal by having an administrator appointed whose
citizenshipwas the same as that of one of the defendants.
A hearing.was had at -which it was proved that the motive
for the -ppointment was to obviate the diverse citizenship of the parties which had justified the remdval of the
earlier suits, and that petitioner had, as a favor to- the
widow and her attorney, agreed to act as administrator.
The District Court refused to remand. To this refusal the
petitioner, saved , proper xceptions.
It should perhaps beremarked that ifi this last suit there
was included, a second cause of action for pain and suffering caused -the-deceased between the date of his injury and
that of his death; but no question here arises in respect of
this cause of action, and for present purposes it may be
disregarded.
At the trial on the merits a deriurrer to petitioner's evidence was sustained, and judgment for respondents resulted. On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed,
holding thatthe, cause was properly removed 2 This
Court granted certiorari.
247 F. (2d) 28.

-

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

It is settled that the federal courts have jurisdiction of
suits by and against executors and administrators if their
citizenship be divdrse from that of the opposing party,
although their testators or intestates might not have been
entitled to sue or been liable to. suit in those courts for
want of diversity of citizenship. Childress v. Emory, 8
Wheat. 642; Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Rice v.
Houston, 13 Wall. 66; Amory v. Amory, 95 U. S. 186;
Blake v. McKim, 103 U. S. 336; American Bible Society
v. Price, 110 U. S. 61; Continental Insurance Co. v.
Rhoads, 119 U. S. 237. It was, however, held by the court
below that this principle is inapplicable to a case, like the
present, where the administrator sues not for the benefit
of the estate, but. of certain named beneficiaries amongst
whom the amount recovered must be divided. That court
likened such a case to one where suit by the beneficiary
is required to be brought in the name of a state, county,
or official body, although such nominal plaintiff has no
interest in the result and is not permitted to control the
litigation (McNutt v. Bland, 2 How. 9; Marylandv. Balduwin, 112 U. S. 490); or" to actions instituted by a next
friend, where it has been held that the infant is the real
party in interest, whose citizenship determines the question of diversity. Voss v. Neineber, 68 Fed. 947; Blumenthal v. Craig,81 Fed. 320.
The petitioner insists that where an admihistrator is required to bring the suit under a statute giving a right to
recover for death by wrongful act, and is, as here, charged
with the responsibility for the conduct or settlement of
such suit and the distribution of its proceeds to the persons entitled under the statute, and is liable upon his
official bond for failure to act with diligence and fidelity,
he is-the real party in interest and his citizenship, rather
than that of the beneficiaries, is determinative of federal
jurisdiction. This we think is the correct view. The applicable statutes make the administrator the trustee of an

MECOM v. FITZSIMMONS CO.
183

Opinion of the Court.

express trust and require the suit to be brought and controlled by him.3
Under these circumstances the rule laid down in Mexican Central Ry. Co. v. Eckman, 187 U. S. 429, is applicable. That was an action in a federal court in Texas by
a guardian, a citizen of that state, against a Massachusetts
corporation, to recover for an injury to a, minor which
occurred in Mexico. A plea in abatement averred that
the ward and his parents were citizens of Illinois and that
the court was therefore without jurisdiction. This Court
examined the state law and ascertained that it authorized
a guardian to bring suit in his own name. It was held
that his citizenship, not that of his ward, determined the
right to resort to the federal court. At page 434 it was
said:
" If in the State of the forum the general guardian has
the right to bring suit in his own name as such guardian,
and does so, he is to be treated as the party plaintiff so
far as Federal jurisdiction is concerned, even though suit
might have been instituted in the name of the ward by
guardian ad litem or next friend. He is liablre for costs in
the event of failure to recover and for attorneys' fees to
those he employs to bring the suit, and in the event of
success, the amount recovered must be held for disposal
according to law, and if he does not pay the same over to
the parties entitled, he would be liable therefor on .his
official bond."
See also Detroitv. Blanchfield, 13 F. "(2d) 13.
It has been held that the same rule applies in the case
of suits by administrators to recover for death by wrongful act, whether the statute provides that the amount
recovered be for certain relatives of the decedent or be
3

Ch. 3, Art. XXVII, §§ 824-825, Comp. Stat. Okla. 1921; Sanders

v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 66 Okla. 313; 169 Pac. 891; Aetna

Casualty & Surety Co. v. Young, 107 Okla. 151; 231 Pac. 261.
Art. V, § 211, Comp. Stat. Okla. 1921.

Ch. 3,

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

general assets of the estate. Harper v. Norfolk & W. R.
Co., 36 Fed. 102; Popp v. CincinnatiH. & D. Ry. Co., 96
Fed. 465; CincinnatiH. & D. R. Co. v. Thiebaud, 114 Fed.
918; Bishop v. Boston & M. R.,Co., 117 Fed. 771; Memphis St. Ry: Co. v. Bobo, 232 Fed. 708.
The court below relied on Ste.uart v. Baltimore & 0. R.
Co., 168 U. S. 445. That authority is not in -point. It
dealt with ' the question whether an. administrator! appointed in the District of Columbia could bring suit there
for a death occurring in Maryland,--the latter'so statute
providing-that such suit should be brought in the namhe of
the state. It was held that the suit might be maintained,
as the administrator would be required to make distribution of the amount recovered in accordance with the laws
of Maryland. No question' of a fraudulent attempt to
avoid jurisdiction by reason of lack of diversity of citizenship arose or was considered in the case.
The respondents assert that the present case is taken
out of th6 general rule by -its peculiar facts, which it is
alleged demonstrate that a fraudwas perpetrated to avoid
federal jurisdiction. They point out that, after the widow
in her capacity as administratrix had repeatedly failed.to
prevent the removal of her -successive actions, -her attorney had her resign and nominate in her *stead the
petitioner, who did not know her, had not known the
decedent, knew of no assets in Louisiana, -and"consented
to be substituted for her as a.favor to her attorney;--that
petitioner did not- sign .his'own bond, did not -come to
the state of Oklahoma to be appointed, and upon his'appointment at once named the widow as his state'agent in
Oklahoma. -They concede, as, they must, that as a non-.
resident he was qualified under 'the Oklahoma law, if
appointed by the probate court, to act as administrator.4
"See the- following sebtions ,of the Compiled Statutes Oklahoma
1921: 1141, 1153, 1159, 1188, 1189, Ch.5,Art. III.

MECOM V. FITZSIMMONS CO.
183

4189

Opini6n ?f the Court.

His appointment was regular and in accordance with the
statutes; and the decree of the probate court may -notbe
collaterally attacked- in the presen.t proceeding. See
McGehee v. McCarley, -91 Fed. 462; American Car &.
Foundry Co. v. Andersbn, 211 Fed. '301. It is nevertheless insisted- that if the petitioner's appointment was accomplished for the purpose of avoiding diversity of
citizenship and consequent removal into the United-States
court, the -parties to ihat prqceeding,--the: petitibner,
the widow, and her attorney,-were in a conspiracy to
defeat federal jurisdiction.
But it is clear' that the motive or purpose that actuated
any or all of these parties in procuring a lawful and valid
appointment is immaterial upon the question of identity
or diversity .6f citizenship. To go behind the decree of the
probate court would be collaterally to attack it, not for
lack of jurisdiction of the subject-matter or absence of
.jurisdictional facts, but to inquire into purposes and
motives of the parties before that court when; confessedly,
they practiced no fraud upon it. The case falls clearly
within the authorities announcing the principle that in
a removal proceeding ihe motive of a -plaintiff in joining
defendants is immaterial, provided there is in good faith a
cause -of action against those joined. While those cases
involve a somewhat different situation,--that where a
plaintiff joins defendants in order to avoid federal juris
diction,--they are in principle applicable to the pr.sent
case, vhere it'is claimed'a plaintiff was procured for the
same purpose. It'has been uniformly held -that "where.
there is a prima facie joint liability, averment and proof
that resident and honiesident tort feasors are jointly
sued for the purpose 9 f preventing removal -does -not
.amount to an allegation that the joinder was fraudulent,
and will not justify 4 removal from. the state court..
Illinois Central R. Co. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S. 308; Chicago,:
P.&Q.R. Co. v. Wilard,220 U. . .413.; Chicago, R. I, & P,

OCTOBER-- TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

Ry. Co. v Schwyhart, 227 U S. 184. The facts disclosed
in this record fall far short of proof of.actual fraud such
as was held sufficient to 'justify removal in Morris v.
Cilmer, 129 U. S. 315,. Lehigh Mining & Mfg. Cq. v.
Kelly, 160, U S. 3271, Lake County Commzssoners V
Dudley, 173U S., 243, Wecker v Natwnal Enameling &
Stamping ,Co.,- 204 U S. 176,, and, Wilson v.- Republic
Iron Co., 257 U S. 192.
The case comes to no- more than this: There being,
under Oklahoma law, aright to have a nonresident appointed administrator, the parties, ininterest lawfully
applied to an Oklahoma court, and petitioner was -appointed admimstratpr, with the result that the cause
of action for the wrongful death of the decedent vested m
him. His citizenship being the same as.that of one og the
defendants, there was no right of xemoval to the federal
court; and i, is inmaterial that, the motive for- obtaining
his appointment and qualification was that he might thus
be clothed with a right t o institute an action which could
not be so removed on the ground ofdiversity of citizenship.
.thatthe petIitiner's motion to reWe are-of opimni
mand the- cause to the state court should haye been
granted. The judgment must be roversed, and the cause
remanded to the-United States.Distnct Courtwith directions to set aside the judgment and remand the case to
the state, ourt,..
Reversed.

,SOUTHERN.: RAILWAY CO. v.,-WALTERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH ItCICUIT.

No.,52, Argued October- 27, 28, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
Upon revieiv of an action against a railroad company to recover damnages 'forpersonal injuries sustamed-in n -accident at 4 crossing, the

