OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284U.S.

and only in cash,, and that it had the effect of rendering
invalid a contract, valid when made, for the issue of free
transportation. The court said (p. 482):
The agreement between the railroad company and the
Mottleys must necessarily be regarded a having been
made subject to the possibility that, at some future time,
Congress might so exert its whole constitutional power in
regulating interstate commerce as to render that agreement unenforceable or to impair its value. That the
exercise of such power may be hampered or restricted to
any extent by contracts previously made between individuals. or corporations, is inconceivable. The framers
of the Constitution never intended any such state of
things to exist."
There is nothing in the findings or in the circumstances
to suggest that the manufacturer sustained any injury
from the requisition itself, since the government uhidertook to carry out the contracts and its credit was certainly not inferior to that of the original purchaser. The
injury resulted not from the requisition, but from the
subsequent cancellation of the contracts.
Judgment affirmed.
CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY, CO. v.
BOLLE.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF ILLINOIS, SECOD-.
DISTRICT.

- No. 60.

Argued October

28, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.

1. The test of whether an employee at the time of his injury was
engaged in interstate commerce, within the meaning of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, is whet her he was engaged in interstate
transportation or in work so closely related to such transportation
a&to be practically a part of it. P. 78.
2. The plaintiff's employment, at the time of the injury, was. confined to firing a stationary engine (or, as a substitute, a locomotive,)

.CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. v. BOLLE.

75

Opinion of the Court.

74

to generate steam. The steam -was used for heating a depot, a
baggage room and rooms devoted to general railroad purposes.
It was also used for heating suburban coaches while standing in
the yards, including some that had been taken off of, and after
heating were to be carried back by, interstate suburban trains,
and for heating a Way car and bunk cars converted into stationary
structures and-16cupied by employees in track maintenance and
in the bridge and buildings departments; and sometimes it was
used to prevent the freezing of a turntable used for turning engines
emiployed in interstate and intrastate traffic. On the occasion
in question, he was directed to accompanr the substitute locomotive to a place about four miles distant, to obtain coal, and,
for that purpose, his engine was attached to and moved with
other locomotives then being prepared for use in interstate transportation. While coal was being taken upon one of the locomotives,
he was injured. Held not .employed in interstate commerce, in
the sense of the Act. P. 80.
258 Ill. App. 545, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 283 U. S. 818; tb review a judgment of the
Appellate Cburt of Illinois, which affirmed a recovery for
personal injuries, in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The Supreme Court of the State
refused to review the judgment. For earlier stages of
the case, see 235 Ill. App. 380; 324 I1. 479, 155 N. E. 287;
251 Ill. App. 623.

Mr. Samuel H. Cady, with whom Messrs. Nelson J.
Wilcox (who was prevented by illness from arguing the
case) and Ray N. Van Doren were on the brief, for
petitioner.

Mr. Joseph D. Ryan argued the case, and Mr. John P.
Bramhall also appeared, for respondent.
MIR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner is a common carrier by railroad engaged in
the intersti.te and intrastate transportation of passengers
and freight. Respondent was'employed by petitionir to

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.Opinion of the Court.

2841U.S.

fire a stationary engine which, was .utilized, to generati
steaii for the purpose of heating the passenger depot, baggageroom, and bther structures., and rooms used for:general railroad purposes at Waukegan, Illinois. The steam
was also used toheat suburban passenger coaches while
standing in the yards. Some of these coaches, taken off
of' interstate trains-moving out of Chicago, were heated
when necessary before being,.taken up by other interstate
trains to be carried-back. A way, car and bunk cars, convert6ed into stationary structures and occupied by some
of the employees engaged in the tra&k maintenance and
bridge' and building departments, were likewise heated;
and sometimes steam was used to prevent freezing of a
turntable used- for turning :engines employed, both'in
interstate and intrastate traffib.
On the occasion in question, the Stationary engine was
temporarily out of order, and, in ,accordance with 'the'
usual practice, re§pondent had .been makiiig'use of:a locomotive engine as a substitute. While thus employed he
was directed-to accompany this loconlotive engine to a
place about four miles distant' to obtain a supply of coal.
For that purpose- the engine was attached -to'and move&t
.with three-:other, locom6tive engines then being prepared
for use in interstate transportation. .While coal was being
taken.upon one of the locomotives, respondent was seriouslyinjured, through What is alleged to have been -the
negligeince of petitioner.
The sole object of the movement of the substitute
engine was to procure a supply of coal for the purpose
of generating steam. Its movement was in no way related to the coxntemplated employment of the other three'
locomotives -in interstate transportation; and its "use
differed in no way from the use of the. stationary, engine
when that was available.
There is evidence that' respondent,- at other times, had
been engaged in supplying other engines, with 'coal and

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. v. BOLLE.
74

77

Opinion-of the-Court.

water, firing live engines, and turning a turntable; but his
employment., at the time of the injury wasI confined to
firing the stationary or- locQmotive engine for the sole
purpose of producing steam. The character of the work
which he did at other times, therefore, becomes immaterial. Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 239' U. S.
556, 558; Chicago,-B1. & Q. R. Co. v. Harrington, 241
U. S. 177, 179.
The action was brought under the Federal Employers'
-'LiabilityAct (c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; Title 45, c. 2, U. S. C.)
to recover damages for' the injury. - There have been three
trials of the case. In the first the verdict and judgment
was for the respondent, which upon appeal was reversed
by the intermediate appellate court; upon the-ground that
the 6vidence failed to show that respondent was engaged
in interstate commerce when injured.. 235 Ill. App. 380.
This judgment of the appellate court:was reversed by
the sipreme. court. 324 Ill. 479; 155 N. E. 287. After
remand, there was another trial, resulting in a directed
verdict and judgment for petitioner; and this judgment
the appellate court, Ifollowing the decision, of the supreme
court of the state, 'reversed. 251 Ill. App. 623. Upon
the third trial, judgment upon a verdict was entered in
'favor of 'the _respohdent. This. the appellate court affirmed, 258 Ill. App..545, and the supreme court refused
certiorari to review. the cause.
The appellate court, in holding upon the first appeal
that respondent was not engaged in intetstate commerce,
applied the rule laid down in the Shanks case, supra; and
in so doing was clearly right:
The railroad company ,which was sued. in the Shanks
case-maintained a large machine shop for repairing loco-'
motives used in both interstate and intrastate traffic.
While employed in this-shop, Shanks was injured through
the negligence of the company. Usually he was employed
in repair work, but on the occasion.of the injury he 'was

78

OCTOB-Et

TERM, 1931.

Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

engaged solely in taking down, and putting into a new
location, an overhead couiitershaft through which power
was communicated to some of the machinery used in the
repair work. The Eiiiployers' Liability Act provides that
"every common carrier by railroad while engaging in
commerce between any of the several states .... shall'
be liable in damages to any person suffering injury wlhie
' "' if .the
4e is employed by such carrier in such commerce,
injury'be due to the negligence of the carrier, etc. This
court, at page 558, after quoting the wrds of the act,
laid down the following test for determining whether the
employee, in any given case, comes within thiem:
"Having in mind the nature and usual course of the
business-to which the act relates and the evident purpose
of Congress in adopting the act, we think it speaks of
interstate commerce, not in a technical legal sense, but
in. a practical one better suited to the occasion (see Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398), and that the
true test of employment in such comfherce in the sense
intended "is, was the empl.oy at the "lime of the injury
engaged in interstate transportation or in work so closely
related to it as to be practically a part of it."
It will be observed that the word used in defining the
test is "transportation," not the word "commerce." The
two words were not regarded as interchangeable, but as
conveying different meanings. Commerce covers the
whole field of which transportation is only a part; and
the word of narrower signification was chosen understandingly and deliberately'as the appropriate term. The business of a railroad is not to carry on commerce generally.
It is engaged in the transportation of persons and things
in commerce; and henice the test of whether an employee
at the time of his injury was engaged in interstate commerce, within the meaning of the act, naturally must
be whether he.was engaged in interstate transportation or

CHICAGO & N. W. RY.'CO. v. BOLLE.
74

Opinion of the Court.

in work so closely related to such transportation as to be
practically a part of it.
Since the decision in the Shanks case, the test there
laid down has been steadily adhered to, and never intentionally departed from or otherwise stated. It is necessary to refer to only a few of the decisions. In Chicago,
B. & Q. R. Co. v. Harrington,supra, an employee engaged
in placing coal in coal chutes, thence to be supplied to
locomotives engaged in interstate traffic, was held not to
have met the test. In Illinois Central R. Co. v. Cousins,
241 U. S. 641, as appears from the decision of the state
court (126 Minn.'172; 148 N. W. 58), an employee was engaged in wheeling a barrow. of coal .to heat the shop in
which other employees were at work repairing cars that
had been, and were to be, used in interstate traffic. The
state court held that the employee came within the act, on
the ground that the work which he was doing was a part of
the interstate commerce in which the carrier was engaged,
and cited Pedersenv. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., 229 U. S.
146. This court, however, repudiated that view, and
reversed in an opinion per curiam on the authority of the
Shanks case. In New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243
U. S. 188, 192, it was held, applying the test of the Shanks
case, that employment in guarding tools, intended for
use in the construction of a fiew depot "and tracks to be
used in interstate commerce, had no such direct relation
to interstate transportation as was contemplated by the
Employers' Liability Act.
The rule announced by the Shanks case h.s been categorically restated and applied also in the following cases
among others: Southern Pacific Co. v. IndustrialAccident
Comm., 251 U. S. 259, 263; Industrial Commission v.
Davis, 259 U. S. 182, 185; Baltimore & 0. S. W. R. Co. v.
Burtch, 263 U. S. 540,,,543. The applicable test thus
firmly established is not to be shaken by. the one or two

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
284U.S.

Syllabus.

decisions ot this court where, inadvertently, the word
"commerce" has been employed-- instead of the word
"transportation."
Plainly, the respondent in the present case does not
bring himself within the rule. At the time of receiving his
.injury he was engaged in work not incidental to transportation in interstate commerce, but purely incidental to the
furnishing -of means for heating the station and other
structures of the company. His duty ended when he had
produced a supply 'of steam for*that purpose. :He had
nothing to do with its distribution or specific use, Indeed,
what he produced-was niot used or intended to be used,
directly or indirectly, in the transportation of anything:
It is plain that his work was not in interstate transportation and was not so closely related to such transportation
as to cause it to be practically a part of it. Certainly that
work was no more closely related to transportation than
wa that of the employee in the Harrington case, who
placed coal in the'chutes for the use of locomotives engaged in interstate.transportation; or that of the-employee
in the Cousins case, who supplied coal for heating the shop
in which cars used in interstate traffic wiere repaired. The
work of the employees in those cases and that of the respondent here are, in fact, so nearly alike in their lack of
necessary relationship to interstate transportation, as to
be in principle the same.
Judgment reversed.
CHICAGO-1 ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY

CO.

ET AL.

V. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM TIE "DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR ,THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS,.

N6. 69.

Argued October 14, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.

Carriers operating most of the steam railroad mileage in the country
and owning nearly all of the common carrier car equipment, be.

