OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

8

Syllabus.

284U.S.

BANDINI PETROLEUM CO ET At. v. SUPERIOR

COURT, LOS ANGELES: CO 'NTY, CALIFORNIA,
ET AL.
APPEAL

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL,
APPELLATE DISTRICT, ,OF CALIFORNIA.

SECOND

No. 43. Argued October 13. 14, 19l.-Decided November 23, 1931
1. A judgment of a state court denying a vwrit of prohibition to
another state court and one of its judges from enforcing
an injunction order, held a final judgment within the meaning of
Jud. Code, § 237 (a). P. 14.
2..A proceeding in California for a writ of prohibition to restrain a
California court from exercising jurisdiction in an injunction suit
under a statute 6f that State alleged to be in conflict with the
Federal Constitution, goes only to the jurisdiction of that court to
entertain the suit before it, and if'on, its face, as construed by the
state courts, the statute be valid, judgment denying prohibition
should be affirmed here; constitutional and other questions, as to
the application of the statute to the situation developed in the injunction suit, should be decided and reviewed in that proceeding;
they can not be imported into the prohibition case. P. 14.
3. The Oil & Gas Conservation Act of Califorfia (§§ 8b and 14b)
prohibits "the unreasonable waste of natural gas" in oil and gas
fields and authorizes- the Director of Natural Resources to enforce
the prohibition. The term "unreasonable waste," as construed by
the state supreme court, means allowing gas to come to the surface
in excess of a reasonable proportion to the amount of oil produced,
so that the power of the gas to lift oil from the oil "sand" or
formation is not fully'utilized; and that court has fotind that this
reasonable proportion could not be determined by the legislature
by definite ratios or percentages which would operate without disorimination, but can- be judicially ascertained with fair certainty
in each individual case. Held that the statute is not invalid on
its face for uncertainty, so as to deprive a state court of jurisdiction
to consider relevant questions of fact and determine with respect
to a particular field whether there has been the unreasonable waste
that the statute condemns. P.*16.
4. The provision of the above-mentioned statute that "the blowing
ielease or escape of natural gas into the air shall be prima facide
evidence of inreasonable waste," is not invalid. P. 18.
-restrain

BANDINI CO. v. SUPERIOR COURT.
8

Argument for Appellants.

5. Construed as regulating the correlative rights of surface owners
with respect to a common source of supply of oil and gas, the stat.
ute is valid upon'its face. P. 22.
109 Cal. App. -; 293 Pac. 899, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment denying a writ of prohibition.
The Supreme Court of the State declined to review.
Mr. Robert B. Murphey, with whom Mr. Asa, V. Call
was on the brief, for appellants.
Prohibition: is appellants' proper remedy., The state
court having treated the federal questions involved as
.being properly raised by prohibition and having decided
them adversely to the asserted federal right, this Court
has jurisdiction to pass upon them.
The -Validity of the statute is to be determined by. its
operation and effect as applied to appellants. Appeal
rather than certiorari is the proper remedy.
The facts being admitted by demurrer and their
examination being essential to the enforcement of .the
federal rights asserted, this Court will examine them and
draw its own conclusion.
Legislative regulation curtailing production of natural
gas and providing for its conservation invades the rights
of private owners and is repugiant to the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, when directed.not
td the protection of correlative rights of differentf owners
for the"
in a -common source of supply but to conservation
* benefit of the consuming public..
The statute, as applied, constitutes a taking of appellants' property ,for a public use without, compen".tion
and without due process of law.
Under the admitted. facts, the extent of the invasion
of appellants' property rights is so great, so arbitraKo
oppressive, and so unireasonable, as to exceed the polic
power of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U:S.

The statute igvoid for uncertainty and lack of a suffi6iently definite standard of conduct, under the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

The prima facie evidence clause of the statute violates
the. due process clause.
The statute, as applied, unconstitutionally impairs
appellants' -lease contracts and denies to them the equal
protection of the laws.
,Ifappeal was improvidently sought and allowed, then
certiorari should be granted upon the appeal papers.
Mr. James S.Bennett, with whom Mr.'U. S. Webb,
Attorney General of California, was on the brief, for
appellees.
MP, CHmF JusTicE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The appellants are producers of oil and gas-from their
respective wells in the Santa Fe Springs oil field in Los
Angeles County, California: In September, 1929,. the
State, acting through its Director of Natural Resources,
brought suit in -the.Superior Court of the State against
the appellants and.others, seeking to enjoin an alleged
unreasonable wasie of natural gas in that field. The
authority for the suit was found ifl §§ 8b and 14b of what
is called the Oil and Gas Conservation Act of California.
Stats. Cal. 1915; c. 718; 1917, c. 759; 1919, c. 536; 1921,
c. 912; 1929, c. 535. Section 8b prohibits "the unreasonable waste of natural gas," and § 14b authorizes suit by
the Director of Natural Re~ources to enforce the prohibition.'
'These sefcions are as follows:
"See. 8b. The unreasonable waste of natural gas by the act, omission, sufferance or -insistence. of the lessor, lessee or operator of any
land containing oil or gas, or both, whether before or afterthe removal
of gasoline from such natural gas, is hereby .declared to b opposed to

BANDINI CO., v. SUPERIOR COURT.

11

Opinion of the Court.

The Superior Court-granted a .preliminary injunction
after a hearing upon the pleadings, affidavits, oral testimony and documents submitted. The court recited in its
order that there-uppeared to be an unreasonable waste
of natural gas in the Santa Fe Springs oil fierd, and that
an injunction was necessary 'in order "to, preserve the
subject matter of the action to alide the decree of the
court at the conclusion of the trial." The court restricted
'the average daily production of "net formation gas"
from "any lease or other property unit" to the amount
2
shown for each operator. in an accompanying -schedule.
'the public interest and is hereby prohibited and declared to be uinlawful. The blowing,4 release or escape of natural gas into the air'shall
be prima facie evidence of unreasonable waste.' (Stats. Cal. 1929,

ch. 535, p. 927.).
"Sec.'14b. Whenever it appears to the director of the department
of nhtural resources that the owners, lessors, lessees, or operators of
any well or wells producing. oil and gas or oil 6r gas -are-causing or__
permitting an unreasonable :waste of gas, he may institute; or hve
proceeding instituted, in the naIe of the people of the State. of
California to enjoin such unreasonable. waste of gas regardless of
whether proceedings have or have not been instituted under section 8
hereof, and regardless of whether an order has or has not been made
therein. Such proceedings shall be instituted in the superior court for
the county in which the well or wells from which the unreasonable
waste of gas is occurring or any thereof are situated. The-owners,
lessors, lessees or operators causing or permitting an unreasonablewaste of gas in the same oil or gas field, although their properties and.
interests may be separately owned and their unreasonable waste separate and distinct, may be made parties to said action. In such suits
no restraining order shall be, issued ex parte, but otherwise the procedure shall be governed by -the provisions of chapter three, title
.seven, part two of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State. of California and no temporary or permanent .injunction issued in such proceedings shall be refused or dissolved or stayed pending appeal upon
the giving of any bond or- undertaking, -or otherwise." (Stats. Cal.

1929, ch. 535, p.-930.)'The injunction order sets forth-"-that the evidence available tb-the
' Court a± this time shows that-the -unreasonable waste -of natural gas

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

The court also directed each defendant to file reports
showing the daily production of gas and oil, and the order
was without prejudice to the right of any of the parties
to move on five days' notice for modification of the injunction. The court later modified the order in particulars not important here. Appellants state that the order
curtailed their production of gas from 57,120,000"to 27;187,000 cubic feet a day.
in said field may be substantially reduced and that the "equities of all
paities may be fairly conserved by a preliminary injunction which will
limit the waste of gas by -restricting the production thereof to a
quantity reasonably in excess of the present outlets for beneficial use
above ground, require the extraction of gasoline from the gas produced in the field; that -accordingly for the purposes of this order, the
total gas outlets for all useo with a reasonable tolerance to take care
of fluctuating demands and the necessary waste is taken at approximately two hundred eighty-five million (285,000,000) cubic feet of gas
each day, and the estimated potential production of oil is taken at two
hundred thirty-sev.n thousand five hundred seventy-six (237,576)
barrels each day distributed among leases and other operating property
units, as shown in the schedule hereafter set out; and that sufficient
cause has been shown for the extraordinary relief of a preliminary
injunction pending the trial of the action on the merits, and the entry
of a final judgment herein;
"It Is Ordered and Decreed that the above named defendants ...
until the further
be and they hereby are restrained and enjoined ..
order of this court as follows:
"1. From blowing, releasing or permitting any natural gas to escape
into the air from any well or wells in the Santa Fe Springs Oil Field
before the removal of the gasoline from such natural gas.
"2. From operating any well producing natural gas in the Santa Fe
Springs Oil Field except while e) rcising a high degree of care in the
selection and adjustment of aplhtnces and in the use thereof for the
purpose of keeping each producing well in its 'optimum gas-oil
ratio '-the term 'optimum gas-oil ratio' being defined as the smallest
number of cubic feet of gas which can be produced with each barrel
of oil from the same well at the same time.
"3. From producing more net formation gas on the average day of
each seven (7) day period from any lease or other property unit than
is set forth in the 'Allowed Gas Production ' column" than that shown
for each operator in the accompanying schedule.

BANDINI CO. v. SUPERIOR COURT
8

Opinion of the Court.

Thereupon the appellants sought a writ of prohibition
from the District Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District of the State, restraining the Superior Court and the
respondent, William Hazlett, as one of its judges, from
enforcing the injunction order. The jurisdiction of the
Superior Court was attacked upon the'ground of the
invalidity of the statute invoked. The appellants contended, in substance, that the statute violated the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment in that it
afforded no certain or definite standard as to what constituted "waste" or" unreasonable waste" and unlawfully
delegated power to the Superior Court to legislate upon
that subject; in that, upon the facts and as applied
against the appellants, the statute prohibited them "from
utilizing such amount of natural gas produced from their
respective wells" as was'" reasonably necessary to produ'ce oil therefrom in quantities not exceeding a reasonable proportion to the amount of oil produced from the
same well "; and in that the statute required appellants
to curtail their production of oil and gas "fof the purpose
of-conserving such natural gas for the benefit of the general public" without eminent domain proceedings and
without just compensation, and was so arbitrary and oporessive that it was in excess of the power of the State.
'y reference to their pleadings in the injunction suit,
.he appellants also assailed, under the due process clause,
the provision of the statute as to what should constitute
prim facie evidence of unreasonable waste, and the appellants further insisted that the statute as enforced
against them impaired the obligation of their lease contracts in violation of the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution and that they were denied the equal protection of the laws as guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The respondents (appellees here) demurred to the petition; and the District Court of Appeals, entertaining and
overruling the contentiois of the appellants under the

- OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

due process clause, denibd the writ of prohibition. 63 Cal.
App. Dec. 1175, 293 Pac. 899. The appellants then applied for a hearing in the Supreme Court .of the State
and, this having been denied, they seek in-thi Court a
review of the judgment of the District Court -of Appeal.
This Court has jurisdiction. The proceeding for a/writ
of prohibition is a distinct suit- and the. judgment-fitally%
disposing of it is a final judgment within the meaning
of § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code., U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 344.
Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 464;. Mt. Vernon Cotton Co. v. Alabama Power Co., 240 U. S. 30, 31; Missouri
ex rel. St. Louis, B, & M. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 266 U. S. 200,
206; Michigan Central R. Co. v. Mix, 278 U. S. 492, 494.
That judgment, however, merely dealt with the jurisdiction of the Superior Court of the suit for injunction, and
the only question befpre us is whether the District Court
of Appeal erred in deciding the federal questions as to
the, validity of the statute upon which that juris cn
1 uestions of fact;:or with
was based. Moreover, with all
questions of law which would appropriately be raised
upon- the facts adduced in the trial of the case in the
Superior Court, as, a court competent to entertain the
suit, we are not concerned on this appeal. The appellants
annexed to their petition in the prohibition proceeding,
and made a part of it, the pleadings in the injunction suit
anld 'the affidavits presented upon the hearing of the application for preliminary injunction. But they could not
in that manner, or by their characterization of the evidence thus adduced, or by pleading the conclusions derived therefrom, substitute the District Court of Appeal
for the Superior Court in the determination of the facts,
or of.the law'as addressed to the facts, which should properly be considered by the latter tribunal. It appears that
in California, in accordance with the general conception
of the province of the writ, prohibition is for the purpose
of arrestin the proceedings of any tribunal bxercising ju-

BANDINI CO. v. SUPERIOR COURT.
8

15

Opinion of the Court.

dicial functions when such proceedings are without, or in
excess of, jurisdiction. Cal. Code of Civ. Pro., §§ 1102,
1103; Jacobsenv. Superior Court, 192 Cal. 319; 219 Pac.
986. See also, Baar v. Smith, 201 Cal. 87, 101; 255 Pac.
827, 833. The writ of prohibition is not available as a
substitute for an appeal from a court having jurisdiction.
As was said by the Supreme Coirt of California, in Truck
Owners & Shippers, Inc., v. Superior Court, 194 Cal. 146,
155; 228 Pac. 19, 22, 23: "If the superior court has jurisdiction to entertain the action it has the' power to define
the right sought to be protected. .

...

If the judgment of

the superior court be incorrect, it may be reversed on
appeal, but not on prohibition."
After the decision of the.District Court of Appeal, and
before the denial by the Supreme Court of the State of a.hearing in the instant case, the latter court passed upon
the constitutional validity of the statute in question.
That decision was made upon an application for a writ of
supersedeas pending, an appeal by certain co-defendants
of the appellants here (who were. not parties to the appeal) from the above mentioned injunction order. " People ex rel. Stevenot, Director of Natural Resources, v.
Associatedc Oil Co., 80 Cal. Dec. 607; 294 Pac. 717. The
Supreme Court found no reason to interfere with the
action of the Superior Court, and, later, the Supreme
Court, on that appeal, affirmed the injunction order,
holding that under the'statute the Superior Court had the
power to determine what wastage of gas imthe production
of oil was unreasonable. id. 81 Cal. Dec. 468, 471; 297
Pac. 536, 537. -The District Court of Appeal, in the instant case, had expressed the same opinion and accordingly decided that it could not interfere by writ of prohibition. 63 Cal. App. Dec. at p. 1186; 293 Pac. at p. 907.
It follows that, in considering and deciding federal
questions in the prohibition proceeding, the District Court
of 4ppeal must be regarded as its opinion imports, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the 'Court.

284 U.S.

having determined merely that the statute was'valid upon
its face so that the Superior Court had jurisdiction to entertain the injunction suit. It is that determination alone
that we can now consider.
The District Court of Appeal overruled the contention
that the statute was so uncertain and devoid of any definition of a standard of conduct as to be inconsistent with
due process. The Supreme Court of the State, reaching
the same conclusion (in the opinion above cited, 80 Cal.
Dec. at pp. 614, 615; 294 Pac. at p. 724) described the
general condition in which oil and gas were found in California and the standard which the court considered to be
established by the statute. After observing that courts
were entitled. to take judicial notice of tho condition and
development of the petroleum industry, and of matters
of science and common knowledge, and referring to scientific reports, the Supreme Court said:
"For present purposes it need only be noted that oil in
this state is found under layers of rock in a sand or sandstone formation termed a lentille or 'lentil,' under pressure caused by the presence of natural gas within the
formation. The layers of rock.thus form a gas-tight dome
or cover for the oil reserve. The oil adheres in the inter9tices between the sand particles. The natural gas may
be in a free state at the top of the dome, but is also in
solution with the oil, thus'increasing the fluidity of the oil
and the ease with which the oil is lifted with the gas in
solution when the pressure on the gas is released by drilling into the oil 'sand.' It is estimated' that only from
ten to twenty-five per cent. of the total amount of oil deposited in a reservoir is ultimstely recovered, depending
on the natural characteristics of the reservoir and the
methods employed in utilizing the lifting power of the
gas: The importance of gas in the oil-producing industry
has, therefore, become a question, of great ooncern'to the
industry itself and to government, to the. end that it

BANDINI CO. v. SUPERIOR COURT.

17

Opinion of the Court.

8

function may be fuily utilized without waste. It fairly
appears on this application that, depending on its location
in the oil reservoir, the extent of the oil ' sand,' the degree
of pressure within the formation, the amount of oil in the
'sand,' the amount of gas in solution with the oil, the
porosity of the 'sand' and other considerations, each oil
and gas well has a best mean gas and oil ratio in the utilization of the lifting power of the gas and the production
of the greatest quantity of oil in proportion to the amount
of gas so utilized, and which may be computed as to each
individual well to a reasonable degree of certainty and be
-regulated accordingly."
In view of these circumstances, the Supreme Court concluded that it might be said that there was an "unreasonable waste" of gas where it "has been allowed to come
to the surface without its lifting power having been utilized to produce the greatest quantity of oil in proportion."
It was such a waste of gas, the court said, that the lgislature of California intended to prohibit. In support of
this conclusion the court referred to the provisions of section 8d of the statute3 These provisions showed, in the
opinion of the court, that the legislature had "plainly
adopted the standard so expressed," that is, "that gas
'Section Sd relates to the procedure upon complaint of undue
waste, and the portion quoted by the Supreme Court of the State
is as follows: "If it shall appear that gas is being produced from
any oil well or wells in quantities exceeding a reasonable proportion
to the amount of oil produced from the same Well or wells, even
though it is shown that such excess gas is being used. in the generation
of light, heat, power or other industrial purpose and that there is
sufficient other gas available for such uses from other wells in the
same or other fields in which the gas produced is not in excess of the
amount which bears a reasonable proportion to the 'amount of oil
produced from such other wells and that there are adequate gas-pipeline connections between such other wells and the place of utilization
of such gas the state oil and gas supervisor shall hold that such
excess production of gas is unreasonable waste thereof if such holding.
will not cause an unreasonable waste of gas in any other field!'
85912--32-2

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

may not be produced, under existing conditions where the
production thereof.so greatly exceeds the market demandtherefor, in quantities exceeding a reasonable proportion
to the amount, of oil produced." And; in explaiation of
its reasons for considering such a standard sufficiently
definite, the court said that "because of the many and ,
varying conditions peculiar to each reservoir and to each
well, which will bear upon a determination of what is a
reasonable proportion of gas to the amount of oil produced, it may.be said that it would be impossible for the
legislature to frame a measure based on ratios or percentages or definite proportions which would operate with-.
out discrmination, and -that what is a reasonable proportion of gas to th&amount of oil produced from each well
or reservoir is a matter which may be ascertained to a fair
degree of certainty ineach individual case."
The statute is to be read with the construction placed
uporw it by the state court. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 73. And, so read, we find no ground _
for concluding that the, statute should be regarded as
invalid upon its face, merely by reason of uncertainty,
so as to deprive the Superior Court of jurisdiction to consider- the relevant questions of fact and to determine
with respect to a particular field whether or not there
has been the unreasonable waste of gas which the statute
condemns. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377;
Miler v. Strahl, 239 U. S. 426, 434; Omaechevarri v.
Idaho,246U. S. 343, 348; Hygrade Provision Co.v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 502.
The appellants make the further contention that the
statute is invalid because of the provision of § 8b (supra,
p. 10) that "the blowing, release -or escape of natural gas
into the air shall be prima fade evidence bf unreasonable
waste." The State, in the exercise of its general power
-

BANDINI CO. v. SUPERIOR COURT.
8

Opinion of the Court.

to prescribe rules of, evidence, may provide that proof of
a patticular fact; or of several facts taken collectively,
shall be prima facie evidence of another fact when there
-issome rati6nal connection between the fact proved and
the ultimate fact presumed. The legislative-presuimption
is invalid when it is entirely arbitrary, or creates an invidious discrimination, or operates to deprive a party of
a reasonable opportunity to present the pertinent facts
in his defense. Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,
219 U. S. 35, 43; Bailey v. Alabama, 210 U. S. 219, 238;
Lindsley.v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., supra, at pp. 81,
82; Manley v. Georgia, 279 U. S. 1, 5, 6; Western & At,antic _?. Co. v. Henderson, 279" U. S. 639, 642. In the
present case there is a manifest connection between the
fact proved and the fact presumed, and under the construction placed upon the statute by the state court there
appears to .be no deprivation of a. full opportunity .to
. present all the facts relahig to operations within the field.
The question remains whether the statutory scheme of
regu ation, with the standard which it sets up.under the
.construsction of the state court, is on its face beyond the
power of the State. The District Court of App.eal, in the
instant case, approached this question -by considering the
correlative rights, under-the law of, California, of surface
owners in. the sgme field. The court concluded that
under the law of California "on account .of the self-propelling, or migratory, character of natural gas, as.well as
oil," the owner of the surface did not have an absolute
title to the gas.and oil beneath, and could acquire such a
title only when he had reduced these substances to possession. As justifying this opinion, the court cited the
case of Acme Oil Co. v. Wuliams (140 Cal. 681; 74 Pac.
296) where the.Supreme Court of the State had said, with
respect to oil, that it is "of a fluctuating, uncertain, fugi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.'

tive nature, lies at unknown depths, and the quantity,
extent and trend of its flow are uncertain. It requires but
a small surface area, in what is known as an oil district,
upon which to commence operations for its discovery.
But when a well is developed the oil may be tributary to
it for a long distance through the strata which hold it.
This flow is not inexhaustible, no certain control over it
can be exercised, and its actual possession can only be obtained, as against others in the same field, engaged in the
same enterprise, by diligent and continuous pumping.
It is the property of anybody who can acquire the surface
right to bore for it, and when the flow is penetrated, he
who 6perates his well most diligently obtains the greatest
benefit, and this advantage is increased in proportion as
his neighbor similarly situated neglects his opportunity."
And the Supreme Court of the State, .in its decision dealing with the statute in question, quoted this language and
held that "the same rule would apply to natural gas."
80 Cal. at p. 612; 294 Pac. at p. 722.
It was with that understanding of the law of the State
that the District Court of Appeal considered.the statute,
taken as a whole, as one regulating and adjusting the
co-existing rights of the surface owners in the same field,
and accordingly sustained the statute as a valid exercise of
state power against the contentions under the due process
clause. The court said: "It is the co-existence of these
rights which authorizes the State to make use of its legislative power. When the -rights of one impinge upon the
rights of others the State may interpose for the purpose
of adjusting and regulating the enjoyment of those rights."
The District Court of Appeal apparently thought it doubtful whether the State might restrict or regulate the production of oil or gas "on the theory of.the public's interest
in their natural resources" but demed it unnecessary to

BANDINI CO. v. SUPERIOR COURT.
8

21

Opinion of the Court.

decide that question in the present case. That court
explicitly refused to accept the view that the statute " does
not proceed upon the theory of correlative rights, but
only upon the policy of conserving or preserving the com•mon supply." And, replying to the suggestion that the
legislature was without authority to restrict the production of oil, the District Court of Appeal concluded its
opinion with the statement that the record did not
"indicate that the temporary injunction was founded
upon such a theory. Nor are we determining that the
Act attempts, to confer upon the court any such power.
Rather weare convinced that a proper construction.of the
enactment confines the authority within the limits of enjoining the production of gas when in excess of the reasonable proportion to the oil for the particular field involved, when not conveniently necessary for other than
lifting purposes."
.While this was the-basis of the decision of the District
Court of Appeal, the appellants insist that, in the subsequent decisions upon the appeal from the injunction order
of the Superior Court, .the Supreme Court of the State has
taken d broader ground and has upheld the statute as one
designed to protect the public interest in the conservation
of natural resources. 80 Cal. at pp. 612-614; 294 Pac. at
pp. 722, 723. We do not understand, however, that the
Supreme Court in taking that view denied the operation
of the statute as a safeguard of the co-existing rights of
surface owners. On the contrary, the Supreme Court, in
its second decision affirming the injunction order of the
Superibr Court, summed up its conclusions in these words
(81 Cal. at p. 471; 297 Pac. at pp. 537, 538): "We reiterate that the legislation in question has lawfully vested in
the Superior Court the power to determine what wastage
of gas in the production of oil is reasonable or unreason-

22

OCTOBER TERI , 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U S.

able.. Whether such wastage be reasonable or unreasonable is a question of fact and should be determined in
view of the necessity of one landowner to make produative use of his parcel, in view of the equal right-of-the
adjoining owners not to be depriyed of correlative produi - tion from their parcels and in view. of the'-right of the.
public to prevent the, waste of that which cannot be",
replaced."
If the statute be viewed as one regulating the exercise
of the correlative rights of surface owners with respect to
a common source of.supply of oil and gas, the conclusion
that the statute is valid upon its face, that is, considered
apart from any attempted application of it in administration wtiich might violate constitutional right, is fully supported by:the decitions. of this Court. Ohio, Oil Co. v.
Indiana,177U. S. 190, 210, 211; Lindsley v. Naturald Carbonc Gas Co., supra, at p. 77; WIU- _v. Midland Carbon
Co., 254 U. S. 300, 323. In that aspect', the. statute unquestionably has a valid operation, and it cannot be said
that the Superior Court was without juiisdiction to'entertain the suit in which-the injunction order was granted.
That was all that the District Court of Appeal determined
in the judgment 'now under review. It is not, necessary
to go further and to deal with contentions not-suitably
raised by the record before-us. IConstitutional questions
are not to be dealt With abstractly.. Having jurisdiction
of the suit the Superior Court had authority to take steps
to protect the subject matter of the action pending the
trial. on the merits. The injunction'order stated that to
be its purpose. Upon the trial,'all questions of fact
and, of law relevant to the application and enforcement
of the statute may be raised andevery constitutional right.
which these appellants may have in: any aspect of the case
as finally developed may' be appropriately asserted and
determined in due course of procedure.,
..

