248

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY CO.
ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 287, Argued December 3, 4, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. Pursuant to the "Hoch-Smith Resolution," of January. 20, 1925,
c, 120, 43 Stat. 801, the Interstate Commerce Commission made a
general investigation of rte structures in the Western District,
including those on grain. Exhaustive hearings, productive of a
very volumin6us record, *were closed -in September, 1928. Later
the Commission made its order, prescribing maximum rates on
- grain and grain products, the effective date of which was postponed
from time td time. In February, 1931,' before the order becaxhe
effective, the carriers petitioned for a reopening of the case, setting up in detail, and offering to prove, that, since the. closing of,
the record, in 1928, economic changes had seriously impaired
their earnings and their credit; that the order would reduce
their revenues greatly, and regardless of the question of its validity and propriety when made, it would no longer -be -valid and
proper in the existing circumstances, and would threaten the
maintenance of an adequate system of transportation. They insisted upon the reopening as a. right guaranteed to them not only
by the Act of Congress but by the Constitution itself. Held:'(1), The petition was not an ordinary petition for rehearing, but
was of the nature of a supplemental bill, presenting a new and
radically different situation, which had'supervened since the record
before the Commission had been closed. P. 259.
(2) The Court takes judicial notice of the economic depression
amounting to a changed economic level, severely affecting the railroads, which has come about since the Commission closed its hearings in this case in September, 1928; and of the existence of this
depression in February, 1931, when the carriers' petition'was filed.
P. 260.
(3) Denial of the petition exceeded the permitted range of the
Commission's discretion and can not be sustained. P. 262.
2. While in fixing future rates the Commission doubtless must act
upon the conditionis disclosed in the record before it and can: not
accurately provide for future fludtuations, this does not justify
denial of a petition to reopen a case when overruling economic
forces have produced a new economic level to which the record
before the Commission is irresponsive. P. 261.

ATCHISON ETC. RY. CO. v. U. S.
248

Argument for Appellants.

3. The prospect that the hearing before the Commission may be long
does not justify its denial, if the hearing be required by the essential demands of justice. P. 262.
4. The legal standards governing the Commission in determining the
reasonableness of rates were not altered by the "Hoch-Smith
Resoldtion "; and a fair hearing is a fundamental requirement.

Id.

51 F. (2d) 510, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree deniying applications for a prieliminary injunction to restrain the enforcement of ai.
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Messrs. Walter
Elmer A. Smith, P. F. Gault, H. H. Larimore,
"McFarland,
J. N. Davis, A. B. Mason, R. J. Hagman,M.-L. Countryman, Jr., R. S. Outlaw, Leslie Craven,A. B. Enoch, Frank
A. Leffingwell, William D. Whitney, and G. Howland
Chase were on the briefi for appellants.
The report discloses that the Commission proceeded
upon the assumption that it was required by the HochSmith resolution to establish the lowest -possible, lawful
rates on agricultural products, affected by depression.
The effect of the order is materinlly to reduce the
general level of the rates on a major description of traffic
without any finding that the carriers' rate of return was,
or, in the near future, would.be in excess of that contemplated by § 15a, but, on the contrary; at a time when such
rate of returh was materially below the statutory requirement, and without any finding, or basis for finding, that
such reduction would yesult in increased revenues through
stinulating an increased volume of traffic.
The purpose of § 15& was to insure the.receipt -of an
aggregate. revenue by the carriers as a whole sufficient to
support an adequate system of transportation. Congress
itself fixea the'standard by which such adequacy is. to be
determined, viz., the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.
The Commission may not consistently with the requirements of § 15 prescribe the lowest possible lawful rates

250

OCTOBER TERM,; 1931.
Agument for Appellants.

-284 U.S.

in the absence of a finding that the group rate of return
received by the carriers exceeds the statutory standard, or
at a time when it is materially below the same, where the
effect of such action is to deprive the mqrriers prb tanto
from earning such rate of return.
The Commission's misconstruction of § 15a and of the
effect of the resolution upon its duties thereunder appears
on the face of the report.
. The Commission, if it did not wholly misconceive its
duties under § 15a, proceeded upon the erroneous assumption that because of the resolution it was directed to -establish the lowest possible lawful rates in this proceeding,
although at or after the conclusion of the general investigation, of which it was a part, it might be required to
advance the general level of all rates, including grain rates,
15a.
in order to discharge the duty imposed by §
The Connission is not empowered by the Act to establish the lowest possible lawful rates., because, of a depression in the industry affected.oand -certainly not at a time
when the carriers' rate of return is far belowthe statutory
standard:
The order of the Commission cannot be sustained by
reason of the' fact that the Commission at-the same time
readjusted many inequalities in rates, thereby, removing
discrimination.
The action of the Commission in, overruling the car-'
riers' petitions fo, rehearing and thus requiring the. order
to become effective, and in'failing to discharge the affirma-tive duty. inposed by § 15a to protect the cariers' reve-,
nues, is so arbitrary and unreasonible as to render its
order void and as -to entitle the petitioners to enjoin its
enforcement.
If there ever was a case in which the action of the Commission may be sAt aside because arbitrary and'unreasonable, alt ough ,taken within the form of its delegated
powers, Interstate "CommereeComm. v. Illinois Central

ATCHISON ETC. RY. CO. v. U. S.
248

Argument for Appellees.

R. Co., 215 J. S. 452, 470; Interstate Commerce Comm.
v. Union Pacific R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547, this would
appear to be such a case. If the facts set forth in the
petition are true, and they must be taken to be so, the
making of these reductions effective at this time is a
palpable disregard of the continuing duty imposed upon
the Commission by § 15a.
Rate orders of the Commission operate iA futuro. . It is
contemplated that they should be responsive to present
and future conditions and not to those of the past, when
unrepresentative of present and future conditions. While
the granting or refusing .of a petition for rehearing rests,
in the first instance, within the discretion of -the Commission, that discretion must not be abused. The substance
'of the allegations in the petition for rehearing was matter of common knowledge, although the precise -figures
were not. In such a case, to refuse to rehear and reconsider, and iri the meantime to postpone the effective date
of the order, puts the Commission in the position of declaring that, despite the provisions of § 15a, the Commission may reduce the net railway operating income of the
carriers $20,000,000"per year, at a time when their rate of
return is approximately but 3%, and- their net railway
operating income $234,00,000 less than 'the return contemplated by that section,, and at a time when their gross
and net- revenues are still falling, and notwithstanding
that the credit as well as the financial condition of the
carriers has been adversely affected. If the Commission
in any report should so state this conception of its duties
under § 15a, an order based thereon would be clearly void.
Cf. Fifteen Per Cent. Case, 178 I. C. C. 539.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel, Interstate
Commerce Commission, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian and
Messrs. E. M. Reidy and H.- L.. Underwood were on the
brief9 for the United States et al., 4.ppellees.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellees.

248 U.s.

The Commission ,did not base its orders upon a misconception of powers conferred by the Hoch-Smith Resolution.
The Commission's statemefit of the issues to be determined and the findings made upon those issues are responsive to applicable provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, and neither they nor any discussions in the
report suggest that other than the usual standards of
rate reasonableness and relations entered into the determination.
The chdnges in rates and practices effected by the orders
afford positive showing that the determination was
reached under the Interstate Commerce Act.
,There was no abuse of discretion in denying the several
motions for rehearing and reconsideration.
I in most of its larger proceedings the Commission is confronte d with petitions for rehearing and reconsiderationbased (as here) on alleged changed conditions. The statute necessarily leaves the matter of reopening to the discretion of the Commission. See § 16a. Sound reasons
mustappear therefor, because reopening may mean further long drawn-out proceedings with the possibility that
when the Commission again reaches a determination it
will be again petitioned- on, the' same grounds.
The special reason advanced by appellants for rehearing was the falling off of their revenue due to diminishing
traffic, which, in turn was due to :sharp -general industrial
depression. At the same time appellants call attention
to the Fifteen Per Cent. Case, 1781. C. C. 539, .in which
the .Commission, 'although deiying. the horizontal increase asked for, suggested to the carriers certain measures
to meet the situatiop. The contention is, then, in reality
that' ivith respect to a-situation calling for'general emergency relief, the Commission abused its discretion in not
reopening a particular docket wherein a determination
had been reached after regularly conducted hearings. The

ATCHISON ETC. RY. CO. v. U. S.,
248

253

Counsel for Appellees.

question involved in the Fifteen Per Cent. Case was how
general emergencer relief could best be given without further 'depressing. business, traffic, aid revenues, and with-.
out disturbing rate relationships, interstate and state,
which to many shippers are more important than the level
of rates. That question of general emergency relief is not'
the question here.*
The determination here involved was reached after
more than a year of hearings, and another of: study, and
on a record in the ma~dingof which carriers and shippers
throughout western territory coiperated to the .full. The
readjustmentwas urgently needed, correcting as itdid not
only the level but the relation of rates, and discriminatory
and wasteful practices under the rates. The increases in
coarse-grain rates went generally where most needed.
Unquestionably, reopening v ould lave m iant further
lengthyproeedings, since the very condition of diminishing traffic would hayvebeen used in evidence and argument
against a higher level of rate; and when a new determination had been reached, general conditions might again
have become normal.
In performing its legislative function 6f prescribing
reasonable rates, the Commission necessarily projects
into the future the results of a'decision based on the conditions disclosed in the record. That determination can
not accurately reflect fluctuating conditions.
Even in the record brought here there is much to show
that the petitions for rehearing were rightly denied; and
in view of the absence of. the evidence before the Commission, it would seem that itshould-be concluded, not'only
that the Commission did not abuse the discretion reposed
in it, but that the evidence as'a whole impelled denial of
the petitions for rehearing.
Mr. John E. Benton, with whom Mr. Clyde S. Bai7ley
was on the brief, for the Arizona .Corporation Commi Siof
Qt al.; interveners and appellees,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Miar. Hugh LaMaster, Assistant Attorney General of
Nebraska, with whom Mr. C. A. Sorensen, Attorney General, was on the brief, for the Nebraska State Railway
Commission, appellee.
Messrs. Charles W. Steiger and Ralph Merriamsubmitted for the Public Service Commission of Kansas, appellee.
MR. CHImF JUSTICE, HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These suits, which were consolidated, were brought by
carriers by railroad in'the Western District, and by certain shippers, to restrain the enforcement of an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission made July.1, 1930,
as amended by a supplemental order of April' 10; 1931.
The order prescribed maximum rates for the transportation of grain and grain products on domestic shipments
within the Western District'- and for export, as described,
and directed the carriers to desist from certain practices
(164 I. C. C. 619; 173 id. 511). Other carrisrs were permitted to intervene as parties' petitioners, and state commissions and certain state organizations were admitted as
intervening defendants. This appeal is from the order of
the District Court, as specially cc'nstituted, denying the
applications of the petitioners for an interlocutory injunction. 51'F. (2d) 510.
Following the passage of the Joint Resolution of the
Congress of January 30, 1925' known as the Hoch-Smith
Resolution, the Interstate Commerce Commission instiThe Western District was defined in the order of July 1, 1930, as
that part of continental United States "on and wVest of the Mississippi River, west of Lakes Superior and Michigan, and west of and
including "IllinQis."
2'. S.'C., Tit. 28, § 47.
' C. 120, 43.Stat. 801,

ATCHISON ETC. RY. CO. v. U. S.
248

255

Opinion of thl Court.

tuied a general investigationI of the rate strudures of
common carhiers to determine whether their rates, charges,
regulations and practices were unjust, unreasonable, uiA.justly discriminatory or unduly preferential, or otherwise
in -violation of law. -The investigation was divided into
sepaiate parts, and the proceeding in one of them (Part
VII)-terminated in the order under review. 'In conndction with this proceeding there were a large number. of
'.formal complaints and suspension proceedings which, conside'red together, brought into issue all phases of the grain:
rate structure involved in the Commission's general investigztion. Many state commissions, chambers of commerce, and trade and traffic associatioiis participated in
the proceeding. Hearings were held ii many cities 'and
extended over a year. The record was closed on September 22, 1928, and after .protracted argument the .matter
was submitted, on July 1. 1929, to "theCommission for its
decision. The first- ieport of -the Commission, made on
Juily 1, 1930, emphasized the magnitude of its task, in
dealing with "' three score'and more of major issues, affecting every part of a vast territorial domain," and the
thorough examination that had been made of the exceptionally voluminous record. The oider of July 1, 1930,
was to go into effect on October 1, 1930, but because of
mechanical difficulties in thepreparation and printing of
the tariffs, contain ing the great'number of. the revised
rates, the effective. date- was 'postponed from time to time.
In September, 1930,. the carriers isked for a rehearing,
which was denied in November, 1930. Prior to its denial, a statement was submitted to the Commission on
behalf of the Western Association of Railway Executives,
directing attention to the serious financi4l condition of
the carriers. A further -petition for rehearing, was pre-

'Docket No. 17,000.

256

OCTOBER -TERM, 1931.
Opinion of.the Court.

284 U.S.

sented to the Commission on February 18, 1931. This
petition described in great detail the situation then existing. The carriers alleged that since the closing of the
r cord before the Commission in September, .1928, there
had been material and important changes in the operating, traffic and transportation conditions in the Western
District, which affected adversely the revenues of the carriers, ajid that, regardless of the question of the validity
and propriety of the order when made, it would no longer
be valid and proper in the light -of the existing circumstances. The carriers alleged and offered to prove that,
if the order becnhie effective, it would reduce the gress
and net operating revenues-of the carriers in the Western
District not less than $20,000,000 annually; that their aggregate revenues in the first eleven months of 1930 were
14.92 per cent. lower than in the'oresponding period of
1929; that.the complete figures in respect of the revenues
for December, 1930, were not yet avaUable but that the
volume of traffic then carried was substantially less than
!hat of December, 1929; that the reVenue freight car loadings in January, 1931, shbwed a substantial decline (14.06
per cent.) from those of 1930 and an even greater decline
(20.98 per cent.) as compared with those of 1929; that
the net operating- income of these carriers for 1930 was
over'$100,000,000 less than their average annual net operating income for the five preceding years; that the changes
in- conditions since the record before the Commission was
clokd had been such as seriously to impair the credit of
the carriers; that not only had the market price of their,
common and preferred stock declined to such a level that
it would be impossible for them to secure additional capital thr6ugh the sale of stock, but that their bond issues
also, in many instances, had ceased to command the credit
which they formerly enjoyed; that the decrease of railroad earnings had been such as to jeopardize the eligibility
of these bonds for savings bank investments, and that
there had been a large decline in the holdings of the secu-

ATCHISON ETC. RY.~ CO.*v."TJ. .

257'

Opinion of the Cour .

248 .

rities 'of these iaHrrers by both savings banks aiid life'"
-insurance companies; and that if ;the order of the.Cornmission'should become effective, it wouldumnder the conditions then present, threaten the mainteiamce 'of . n.

adequate system.of transpofation2.. In support' of their
allegations _s to .changed conditions, the petitioners'sub*mitted re'ny other ofacts and statistical tables of'traffi& and
reivenues,.
• The Commisson denedthe 'appiction for rehearng
on March 3, 1931. ,On' April 0, 1931, the. Qomimission
.!made its supplemental report- and order, modifying-and
supplementing in certain particulars its. originat report
and7 order, and provided that the order as thus modified
should. become effective; on June': 1, 1931. - Thereupon,
-these suits were brought..
* The petition in the caxriers'-sui" challenged the order
as.having been made in disregard 'of, the .provisions of
the Interstate Commerce Act. The original and supple-mental reports of 'the' Commission, and the:'above-men- tioned petitions for rehxaring, were annexed to the .petition and made a part, of it. Reference wa4 made to'

the statement of the Commission, in its special report of

January -21, 1931, to the' Senate Commitee on -Interstate and Foreign Commrce, that the railroads had
-

"never been able,. since 1920, to obtain the aggregate
earnings contemplated by section 15a" (of the Inter-.
state Commer.ce Act) "and 'they .'re -faed- with continually increasing competition frgm.other forms of transportation.' Reciting .arlier orders, of 'the -Commission.
bearing upon rates for- the translortation of grain and'
grain produot91' the. c iemr- averred ,hat. the order of
•Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C-.'220;-Rtes'on Oiain, Grai"
64Iay,
I.t. C. 85;' ReddcedRates, 1922,.08 IC'.C.
Produ~ts and
676; Rates ,.. Grain, Grain Pr.ucts. and Hay;.80 T. C. C. 362;

Kansas. Public 'Utilities.Coinmission v. A. T. & S.F. .Ry.'Co., 83'.
'I. C. Q.-105; Rates and Charges 6n Grain =nd (i-iu.opVducts 91
I4 0. C. 105:". 85912*_..2

- ...
_

S258

OCTOBER TERM,
I

iL.,

Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

the Commission was a complete: reversal of. its previous
action; that the Commission had found that the revenue
of the, carriers for the 'Western District from -the carnriage of grain and grain"products amounted to 12.1 per
-cent. of their total revenues in 1924, that year being. used
in the report. as representative,' and that the effect of'.
-the- order in"'question would be to reduce the general
level of rates on this traffic approximately 13 per cent.,
causing a serious diminution (to the amout& of $20,000,000 annually). in the gross and net operating income"
.of these carriers. The 'petition set forth the'passageof -theHoch-Smith Resolution and the order of the Commission in relation to the rates on deciduous fruits from
California, which had been held -by thi' Court to be
invalid because based upon an erroneous construction
of the Resolution,' and'the carriers charged that, in making the reports and'oider herein quoStion, the Commis
sion 'had proceeded upon .a 'like misconception of' its
powers. Stating the substane 'of their petition (February, 1931) for rehearing, the- carriers. frther charged
that the'denial' of -that peition, in view of chaiged con-'
ditions, was itSelf-an abiise of administratire ,discretion
and, by depriving the carriers bf the hearing 'to which
they were entitled, constituted a denial of due -process
in violation of the Fifth Amendment of the .Constitution
of the United States.
In their answers, theUnited States and the Commission
*denie ': at the action of the Commission was in any.
respect unauthorized or unlawful, and on the contrary
alleged,,vthat the Commission'hdd carefully considered the.
evidence bpfore' it .in the light of its experience and that'
the evidence fully'supported its order.
"California. Growdrs' and Shippe ' Protective League v. Southern

Pacific Co., 129 I. C. C. 25; 132 74. 582; Ang Arbor R. Co.
[States, 281 U.-S. 658.

v. United,

ATCHISON ETC. RY. CO. v. U.S.
248

5
"259

Opinion of the Court.

'On the application -for an interlocutory injunction, the
evidence taken-before the Commission -was not presented
to the'Distri'ct C6urt. Affidavits were submitted by the
carriers which'were addressed to the effect of the order
upon their revenues. The District Court made findings
of fact, reciting the findings set forth in the report of the
Commission and, in the view that these were conclusive
in the absence of Athe evidence; and that no, errors of law
had been committed, fhe application was denied.
The appellants contest this conclusioh, contending that
the report of the Commission an.d concurring opinions of
Commissioners disclosed that the Commission had misapprehended its authority under the Hoch-Smith Resolution and that the Commission. had failed to make the findings which were essential to support its decision under
the applicable law; that this was shown by the special
and extended consideration given by the Commission -to
the depression of agriculture and the lack of other and
proper foundation for the order; that the Conmission had
not performed its duty to consider and apply 'the' pro-'
visions of § "15a of the Interstate Commerce Act and had
exceeded its power by resorting to different standards from
those established by §9 1 and 15 of the Act;' and that the
ultimate finding, of the' Commission, expressed in the
words of the statute, that the existing rates were unreasonable to the 6xtent that they exceeded the rates prescribed,
was not in itself sufficient to support the order, as it otherwise appeared to have belen erroneously based.
We do not find it to be necessary to consider these contentions, and the counter arguments'advanced on behalf
of the Commission, or to review the Commission's reports,
as it is sufficient for the present purpose to deal with the
fundamental question presented by the action of the Com-,
mission in denying the appellants' second application for
a rehearing. Ordinarily, a petition for reheariig is" for

260

OCTOBER TERM; 191.Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

the purpose of directing attention to matters said to have
beenoverlooked or-mistakenly conceived in the original
decision and thus invites a reconsideration pon the record upon which that decision rested. The second petition
for rehearing, in this proceeding, was not of that character.
It wa.5 of tti nature of a suppleiiental bill.-- It presented
a new situation, a radically different one, which had supervened since the record before thb Commission had been
closed-in September, 1928. It asserted that whatever,
might be the view of the order when made, and upon that
record, a canged economic condition demanded.reopening
and recdnsideration. The carriers insisted.upon thii reopenipg as a rightguaranteed to them not only by :the
Act of Congress but'by t6 Constitution itself. ,
There i an be no question as to the change in conditi .0s
upon which -the new hearing was asked. Of that change
we may take -judicial notice. It is the outstanding contemporary fact, dominating thought and action throughout the country.. As the Interstate Comqmerce Commis.
sion said in its recent report to the Congress," "a depression such asthe country is now passing thiough is a new
"experience to the present generation." . The Commission
aIsqrecognized in that report '.the very large reductions
in railroad earnings which have accompanied the economic
depression,'! and stated that "the chief cause of these.reductions has been loss of traffic." For "in such depres* sions the railroads. suffer severely.. Their traffic is a
barometer of ge-nera. business conditions." 8
It is plain that a record.,which was closed'in September, 1928--relating to rates on a major description .of the
-traffic of the carriers in a vast territory-ca.nnot be re-.
garded as representative of the conditions existing in
' 45th Annual Report, December 1, 1931; House Doc. No. 30, 72d
Cong., 1st .Sess., p. 114.

31d.

ATCHISON ETC. RY. CO. v. U. S.
248

261

Opinion-of the Court.

1931:. That record perfains to a different economic era
and furnishes' no adequate criterion -of present requirements.. While the effects of the- widespread economic.
disturbance have had a.progressive manifestation, they
had been suffi~iently revealed in February, 1931, wijhn the
second petition for rehearing was made, to compel the .
conclusion that the record of '1928 afforded io sufficient
basis 'for the order, of the Commission, The facts were
set forth in the carriers' petition. •They pointed out, the
grave reductions, in traffic and earnings, from which they
were suffering, that"their net operating income for 1930
was over $100,000,000 less than their average annual net
operating income for the five years preceding, and that
'their credit was seriously impiaired. At the time of this
petition, the order revising the rates -on grain and grain •
,products in the Western -District had not yet become
effective, but the Commission: stood upon the record of
192. and, without reopening the proceeding or. taking"
further evidence; providpd that its order should become
,effective, on 'June 1, 193L . In justfication oi this course,
it is urge& on behalf of the Commission that its determi-..
*nation had been reached after xegularly conducted :and
carriers and shippers had
protracted hearings in .whih
cooperated and that .the adju stmefits related not.'only to'
the level of.rates but-to the relation, of rai4 s and to-dis-.
criminatory and 'wasteful practices, -and that a reopl"ng
would have meant further lengthy proceoings. It is
said that-'ini performing its legislative function of prescribingreasonable rates, the Commission necessarily profe]tint-th6-future-theresul s-o-a-decision based -on.'the 'conditions disclosed in the. record,' and that its determination 'cannot reflect aipurately fluctuatiig. .condcitions.' These suggestions'W"d be appropriate in relation to. ordinarx applications for rehearing, but. are without force when overruling, economic fo-ce. have made
-

-

0CTOBIR TERM, 1031.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

the record before the Commission irresponsive, to present conditions. This is not the usual case of possible
fluctuating conditions, but of a changed economic level.
And the prospect that a heAring may be long does not
justify its denial if it is required by the essential demands
of justice.
We are thus brought to the fundamental considerations
governing the authority of the Commission: -It has broad
powers and a wide extent of administrative discretion,'
with the exercise of which, upon evidence, and within its
statutory limits, the courts do not interfere. The important and salutary functions of the Commission to enforce
public rights are not to be denied or impaired. But the
Commission, exercising'a delegated regulatory authority
'which does not have the freedom of ownership, operates
in a field, limite by,constitutional rights and legislative
requirements. Its duty under §§ 1 (5),-3 (1)' and 15 (1)
of the Intefstate Commerce Act with respect to the prescribing of reasonable rates and the preventing of unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or' induly preferential
practices, has not been changed by the Hoch-Smith Resolution. Ann Arbor'R. Co. v. United States, 281 ,U.S.
658, 669, The legal standards governing the action of the
Commission in determining the reasonableness of rates,are
unaltered. In the discharge of its duty, a fair hearing is a
fundamental requirement.-Interstate Commerce Comm.
v. Louisville'& Nashville.R,Co.,-227 U. S. 8$, 91.. In the
instant proceeding, the hearing accorded related to conditions which had been-radically changed, and a hearing,
suitably requested, whichwould have permitted the presentation of evidence relating to existing conditions, was
denied. We think that this action was not within the
permitted range ,of the-Commission's discretion, but was
e denial of right. The" order of the. Com(iission which
was thus made effective, and the ensuing supplemental
order, cannot be sustained.

MARINE TRANSIT CO. v. DREYFUS.

* '
248:

263

Syllabus.

:The order of the District Court refusing an interlocutory injunction is'ieversed, and the cause is remanded with
direction to grant the injunction as prayed.

Revered..
M

I

TRANSIT CORP. Lv A. v. DREYFUS.

CERTORi To THE CCUIT COURT dF APPzAw goR T
"OND CMCUIT.

A.
SEC-

No. 172. Argued December 10, 11, 1931.-Decided January 4; 1932.
Cargo was lost through the alleged fault of the.carrier while being
towed in. a canal-a navigable water of the United. States-under
a fiaritime contract providing that all dispiltes under it should
be arbitrated before a designated board,- whose -decision -hould
*be final and binding. .The cargo owners, proceeding in a District
Court of the United States in admiralty, filed a libel for damages
against the carrier and also libeled the tug bel6nging to the carrier
which was charged with having occasioned the loss. The carrier
answered as respondent and also as clainant of the tug, and
released th latter-by a stipulation for value. Held:
1. The proceedings were:witliin the jurisdiction of the-court ofadmiralty. *P. 271.
2. Under the United States Arbitration Act, the court had au: thority'to direct that the issues arising under the contract between
the cargo owners and the cariier be arbitrated, as provided by
the contract, and to confirm the award of the arbitrators.

Pp. 274, 276.
3. Under the agreement that the award should be "final and
binding," the carrier was bound by the"award against it, both as
respondent and as owner and claimant of the tugi and.adecree
against it upon the award was authorized by § 8 of the Act. .P. 276.
4. The fact that the award in this case was signed by only four,
-of the five arbitrators is not a valid objection to the decree en-forcing it, since it does not appear by the record that the agreement required unanimity (the statute being silent on the subject,)
or that any specific objection raising the point was made on the
motion for confirmation. P. 276.
5. Whether the ..admiralty court committed error in decreeing
against the stipulator as well as the respondent-claimant, will not
be decided when the stipulator has not sought review in this Court.
P. 277.

