U. S. CARTRIDGE CO. v., U. S.
498

Syllabus.

edy at law. It is clear thaf, by reason of the special and
extraordinary facts And circumstances, .§ 3224 does not
*apply. The lower courts rightly held respondent entitled
to the injunction.
.
,""
jqo. 252.,,

-.

This' ease was decided in the Circuit Court of Appeals
at the same time'as No. 251, 49 F. (2d) 85, presents the
same question, and is governed by the fQregoifig opinion.
"Decrees'aflfirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ST6NE, dissenting.;
In my opinion, R. S. § 3224; which says that "No suit
for the purpose of restraining th&assessment or collection
of. any tax shallbe maintained in any court," .cannot
-rightlybe construed as permitting the present suit, whosa
sole purpose is to'enjoin the collection of a tax. Enacted
in 1867, this statute, for, more than sixty years, has been
consistently applied as- precluding relief,, whatever the
equities alleged.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

joins'me in this opinion.

UNITED STATE& CARTRIDGE CO. v. UNITED
STATES.'
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF drLAims.
No. 348.

Argued january 15, 1932.-Decided Februar-y 15, 1932.

1. "Obsolescence"

may arise from changes in the art, shifting of busi-

ness centerq, loss of. trade, inadequacy, supersession, .prohibitory

laws and other things which, apart from physical deterioration,
operatp to cause plant elements, or -the plant as a whole, -to suffer

"imniiantion in value. P. 516.
2. The Revenue Act of 1918 provided that in computing net, income
of a corporation there should be allowed as deductions: (7) an allowanc6 for exhalation, wear and tear of property used in trade or
business, including an allowance for' obsolescence; (8)- in the case
of buildings constructed on or after April 6, 1917, for production of
articles contributing to the prosecution of the war, a .deduction for
'the' amortization of such. part of the cost of such facilities as had

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U. S.

-been borne by the taxpayer, 'but not again including any amount
otherwise allowed by that or previous Acts as a deduction in computing net income. Held:
(1) Subsection (8) does not exclude 'allowance for obsolescence of
buildings erected before April 6, 1917, which were used to produce
munitions for the war. P. 516.
(2) " Obsolescence" and "amortization," as used in the Act, are
not synonymous. Id.
(3) The context and legislative history show that subsection (7)
was intended to establish a general rule allbwing for obsolescence,
etc., and subsection (8) was to authori e, in a limited class of cases
and under special circumstances, the amortization of certain-cozts
by deductions not duplicating any other allowed by that or previous
Acts. P 517.
3. Buildings erect&I by an-ammunition company in 1914 as an extension of its plant on leaced land, for the purpose of making ammunition for the World War, and which were so used until the
Armistice, thereupon lost their use in the company's business, so
that their remaining value to the company was in the n ature of
salvage. Held that the depreciated cost, less the value of the right
to use the buildings after 1918 until- the expiration, of -the lease,
should be taken into account in determining the company's, 1918
income and profits taxes. P. 517.
4. Provisions in contracts for production of war munitions for the
United States, whereby the Government might stop further production upon the termination of the war and must then reimburse
the manufacturer for the cost of materials purchased by it for the
performance of the contracts and then on hand-.-held to have been
superseded by another arrangement for suspension of operations
and for settlements through further negotiations. P. 518.
5. An ammunition company, at the close of 1918, had on hand materials.purchased for performance of government contracts, but for
which the Government was not bound to pay and which were inventoried at market value, below cost. Held, that in determining the
company's 1918 income',and profits taxes, this inventory value
should be used and not a higher value which the company received
from the Government under settlements 'in later years. P. 520.
6. Amounts in excess of Ihe inventory value of one year, -which are
realized from sales in subsequent years, a're attributable to the years
in which they were realized, since gains'and losses must be accounted for in the years in which they are realized, and the purpose
of inventories is to assign to each period, its profits and losses.
P. 520l.'

71 Ct. Ols. 575

U. S. CARTRIDGE CO. v., U. S.

513

Opinion of the Court.

511

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment rejecting parts- of a
claim made on account of an overpayment of income and
profits taxes.
Mr. Harry LeBaron Sampson for petitioner.
Asstant Attorney General.Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch,Fred K.
Dyar, BradleyB. Gilman, Clarence M. Charest, and Isadore Graff were on the .brief,. for the' United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner sued to recover an alleged overpayment of income and profits taxes for 1918. The cofirt made findings
of fact, ruled- in favor of petitioner as to a part of the
amount and gave it judgment for $160,978.83, which is not
here challenged. The court dismissed petitioner's complaint as to two other claims, which this writ brings up for
consideration. One is on account of buildings erected by
it for war purposes onleased land. The other involves the
valuation of petitioner's inventories relating to government contracts. There is printed in the margin a stateinent showing the net income and taxes as determined by
the Commissioner, the reduction made by the judgment,
and the deductions claimed by petitioner and denied by
the court.'
The substance of the findings as to the buildinigs may
be stated as -follows:
. Petitioner, for some years before the war, had.been a
manufacturer of ammunition for, small arms used in times
* See table of cases reported in this volume.
'Net income .......... $1,792,432.58
Reduction by court ....
195,362.67
Leaving income ........ 1, 597, 069.91

Deduction claimed on
. account of buildings.

Taxes .... $1, 1 2,123.53'
Taxes ....
160,978.83
Taxes....
991-144.70

-

327,937.35

Taxes.....

270;220.38

500, 473..19'

Taxes....'

412,389.91

Deduction on account
of inventories .......
85912°-82--.--3s,

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

2841U. S.

of peace. It. carried onat Lowell, MassachiLisetts, principally in buildings rented from a power company. During
the years 1911 to 1914, inclusive, its business was relatively small and not profitable. In 1914 it commenced
making ammunition fbr use in the war, and for the purpose of continuing that business while the war should last,
if constructed new buildings upon the power compan s'S
land at a cost of $802,499.49 pursuant to an agreement
that it should have the right to use them rent free until
December 31, 1924, and then hand them over-to the power
company. Until the arinistice, ,at first for foreign governments and later for our own, it had orders, and used
all the buildings up to their capacity, in the manufactuie
of war ammunition. There was no way of knowing when
this demand would cease.
Petitioner did not expect to make military ammunition
after conflict ended, and in fact received no orders after
the armistice. It continued the commercial amimunition
business but made no profit in. any Year from 1918 to the
end Qf the, lease. The buildings could not be rented.
Those belonging to the power company had been incorporated into thenew ohes. - The space so made was much
greater than required for its commercial ammunition business. Petitioner, for the purpose of utilizing the excess,
undertook the-manufacture. of some other things, but that
-business was small and resulted in loss each year. There
was a garage, used during the war production but not
needed afterwards. -Petitioner attempted to operate-the
building as a public garage but, realizing no net return,
rented it to others from October, 1923, until the end of
the lease.
"-Th Commissioner allowed deductions on account of
,the cbst of the buildings for the years from'1914 to 1917,
incluAive,' amounting. in all to $197,107.74, leaving as of
the;end of 1917, cost less depreciation, $605,391.7-5. In
the settlement ofits.1918 taxes petitioner claimed: that, as

U. S. CARTRIDGE CO. v. U. S.
511

1
515,

Opinion -of the Court.

of the end of that year, the value of its right to use the
new buildings during the remainder of the term was $190,969.86, and the Court of Clains found it not in excess of
that amount. Petitioner claimed a deduction of the difference between the depreciated cost and such residual
*value' The Commissioner disallowed the claim on the
ground that it had not abandoned the use of the buildings
or permanently devoted them to a radically different use.
He allowed $86,484.54, arrived at by distributing the cost
of each building ratably over the period ending with the
term of the lease. The difference between the deduction"
claimed and that allowed is $327,937.35. In its tax returns for the remaining years of the lease, petitioiier
claiped deductions on account of the buildings amounting in all to $190,969.86, but the Commissioner added to
such deductions $327,937.35.
The Revenue Act of 1918, 40 Stat. 1077, controls and
its pertinent provisions are printed in the margin.' The
'Sec. 234 (a). That in computing the net income of a corporation
subject to the tax imposed by section 230 there shall be allowed as
deductions:

(7) A reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of
property used in the trade or business, including a reasonable allow-ance for obsolescence;
(8) In the case of buildings ... or other facilities, constructed

or acquired, on or after April 6, 1917, for the production of
articles contributing to. the prosecution of the present war, and in the.
case of vessels constructed or acquired on or after such date for the
transportation of articles or men .. . there shall be allowed a reason-

able deduction for the amortization of such part of the cost of such
facilities or vessels as has been borne by the taxpayer, but not again
including any amount otherwise allowed under this title or previous
Acts of Congress as a deduction in computing- net income. At any

time within three years after the termination of the present war the
Commissioner may, and at the request of the taxpayer shall,. regxamine the return, and if he then finds -as a result of. an appraisal or

from other evidence that the deduction originally, allowed was incor-

S16

OCTOBER- TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Government maintains that subsection (8) excludes the
all6wance claimed. The contention is without merit.
The argument is that, by authorizing amortization in respect of buildings erected for war production after April
6, 1917, Congress denied allowances for obsolescence as
to-like buildings constructed before-the-war. But obsolescence and amortization are not synonymous. While
in some connections like meaning may be attributed to
them, they do not necessarily or-generally refer to the
same thing. Obsolescence, may arise from changes in the
art, shifting of business centers, loss of trade, inadequacy,
supersession, prohibitory laws and 'other things which,
apart from physical deterioration; operate to cause plant
elements or the plant as a whole to suffer difminution in
value. Burnet v. NiagaraBrewing Co., 282 U;.S. 648, 654.
Gambrinus Brewery Co. v. Anderson, 282 U. S. 638.
Amortization as used in the Act is not so broad; it refers
to deductions on account of such part of the costs of certam facilities as has been borne by the taxpayer, "but
not again including any amount otherwise allowed." This
safeguard against duplication of allowances on account
of the same diminution in value shows that deductions
for- amortization were not' intended to exclude obsolescence, but rather were to be made in addition or having
regard to allowances deducted on account of obsolescence
%ndthe like.
The legislative history of the Act negatives the contention. In explanation of the deduction for amortization the Committee on Ways and Means, having charge of
the "measure,reported that many facilities privided for
-

rect, the taxes imposed by this title, and by Title III [*ar-profits and
excess-profits tax] for the year or years affected shall be redetermined

and the amount of tax due upon such redetermination, if-any, shall
be.paid upon notice and demand by the collector, or the amount of
tax overpaid, if any, shall be credited or refunded to the taxpayer in
accordance with the provisions of section 252; ...

U. S. CARTRIDGE CO. v. U. S.
51

Opinion of the Court.

war purposes would be of little value after termination
of the conflict; that, under the law then existing, it was
impossible to allow deductions other than for the "ordinary exhaustion, wear and tear, and depletion of such
property" and that the purpose was "to allow special
amounts for amortization, according to the peculiar condition in each case . .. " I When that report was made,
and as the draft of the Act was originally passed by the
House and amended and passed in the Senate, it. contained no provisi6 expressly authorizing allowances for
obsolescence. Subsection (7) in the form in which it was
finally adopted was formulated in conference much later
than the committee report, and after the provision for
amortization as finally enacted had been 'agreed to.'. See
GambrinusBrewery Co. v. Anderson, supra, 643. Manifestly, Congress intended by subsection (7) to establish
a general rule and by subsection (8) to authorize, in a
limited class of cases and under special circumstances, the
amortization of certain costs by deductions not duplicating any other allowed by that or previous -Acts- of
Congress.
Under the circumstances disclosed by the findings, the
buildings erected by petitioner are not to be distinguished
from equipment designed, constructed and suitable only
-for the'performance of a single job or from brewery plants
put out of use by prohibitory laws. The Government
does not suggest that any part of the allowance claimed
should have been deducted in petitioner's returns for
years prior to 1918. It was impossible to know when
the conflict would cease, but it was certain that, when demand for war materials ended, there necessarily would be
.great'diminution in the value of the buildings. That remaining after the armistice, November 11, 1918, was prop" House Repot 767,65th Congress, 2d Session, p. 10. Senate Report
617, 65th Congress,. 3d Session, p. 7.

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1931
Opinibn of the Court.

284 U.S.

erlyto -be regarded as in the nature of salvage. The depreciated cost less the value of petitioner's right to use
the buildings after 1918 must -be taken into account for
the proper determination of petitioner's 1918 income and
profits taxes. GambrinusBrewery Co. v' Anderson, supra.
Burnet v. NiagaraBrewing Co., supra.
-The findings as to inventories may be stated as follows:
At the end of 1918, petitioner had large quantities
of material,: acquired for the production of war ammunition to be supplied by it under four contracts with the
Government. The contracts provided that the Chief of
Ordnance, upon .termination or-limitation of the war,
might notify petitioner that any part of the articles then
remaining undelivered should not be manufactured or
delivered, and- that: "In .the event of such complete or
partial termination [of performance of the contract] the
United States shall inspect all completed articles then
on hand and such as may be completed within thirty (30)
days after such notice and shall pay to the contractor
the:price herein fixed for all articles accepted . . . The
United States shall also pay to the contractor the cost
of- materials and component parts purchased by the contractor for the performance of this contract and then on
4
hand . ." together with other allowances mentioned.
In December, 1918, the Chief of Ordnance caused letters
to be sent petitioner in respect of each of .its contracts
*ffating: "You are requested in the public interest immediately to suspend further operations under your contract . . . and incur no further expenses in connection
with the performance of said contract. This request is
made with a -view to the negotiation of a supplemental
contract providing for the cancellation, settlement and
Each of the contracts contained a provision substantially the same
as that quoted. One of them, GA-126, did not give petitioner-a right
to continue production for 30 days after ternuination:
.4

U. S. CARTRIDGE CO. v. U. S.
511

519

Opinion of the Court.

adjustment of your existing contract, -ina manner which
will permit of a more prompt, settlement and payment
than will be practicable under the terms of said existing'
contract. Please acknowledge receipt of this notice immediately, and indicate your decision as to compliance
with or rejection of this request. Upon notice of your
compliance, a representative of the Ordnance Department
will forthwith take up. with you the proposed negotiation." 1 Before the end of the year petitioner complied
with these requests and ceased production under the
contracts.
At the end of thai year there was no market for the
materials in the inventories; they were not saleable at
any price approaching cost; it was wholly uncertain what
amounts might be obtained in settlement; and no negotiations for adjustments or settlement had been made.
After negotiations involving much time and expense,
partial settlements were reached in 1920 under which the
Government took over and paid petitioner's cost for most
of the raw material and work in pr~ocess, except labor and
overhead items chargeable to the latter. In final settlements in 1921 and 1922 there were compromises under
which the Government paid a portion of the cost of some
items and made no allowance for others.
Petitioner kept its books on the accrual basis and elected
to price its inventories at cost or market, whichever was
lower. The difference between petitioner and the Commissioner as to 1918 taxes was whether inventories of
material on hand at that date should be taken at $231,615.43, the then market value, or at $732,088.62, which
was made up of amounts eventually realized by petitioner
under the contracts of settlement. The latter was used
by the Commissioner.

'The

suspension requests were not in identical words, but in sub-

stance all were the same.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinibn of the Court.

284 U. S.

Mere inspection of the suspension requests discloses
that they were not intended to be the notices provided
for in the clauses authorizing the Government to: terminate manufacture or deliveries. College Point Boat
Corp. y. United States, 267 U. S. 12, 15. And upon petitioner's compliance with such requests the contract pro!
visions as to payments by the Government to petitioner
of cost were superseded. At the end of 1918, the Government was not bound to take or to pay petitioner for any
property covered by the inventories. Petitioner had no
assurance as to what settlements finally would be made
or that it ever would receive more than"the then market
.value of the inventories. Up to the time of the partial
settlements in 1920,. petitioner had no agreement that
it would be paid the cost of any part of the property.
Cf. Lucas v. American Code Co., 280 U. S. 445, 449.
Petitioner's position was not different from that of a
merchant whose stock on hand at the end of the tax year
and not covered by contracts of sale-had declined in'value
and was inventoried below cost. In such case amounts in
* excess -of. inventory value realized from sales in subsequent years are, attributable to-such years.. Gains or
losses must be accounted for in the year in which they
are realized. The purpose of the inventories is to assign
to each period its profits and losses. Lucas v. Structural
Steel Co., 281 U., S. 264, 268., The tax laws are calculated to produce revenue ascertainable and payable at
regular intervals. Otherwise it would not be practicable
to devise methods of accounting, assessment or collection
capable of -operation. Burnet v. Sanford & Brooks Co.,
282- U. S. 359, 365. The taking of petitioner's inventories at market value was essential to a proper disclosure
of its financial position. Regulations in force at the time
of the Commissioner's determination declare that items
such as claims for compensation under canceled government contracts constitute income for the year in which

MATTHEWS v. RODGERS.
511

Syllabus.

they are allowed or their value is otherwise definitely determined. Regulations 65, Article 50. And see Regulations 45, Articles 1582-1584, as amended by T. D. 3296.
On the facts found there was no warrant for including
in petitioner's 1918 taxable income on account of such
inventories any amount in excess of ,market value at the
end of that year.
The lower court's dismissal of petitioner's claims for
deduction of $327,937.35 on account of buildings and
$500,473.19 on account of inventories cannot be sustained.
Reversed.
-

MATTHEWS ET AL. v. RODGERS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 84. Argued December 1, 2, 1931. Reargued January 11, 1932.Decided February 15, 1932.
1. Objection to the equity jurisdiction of the District Court held to
* have been properly raised by motion to dismiss the -ill, and breserved by assignments of error in this Court. P. 524.
2. The rule, emphasized by Jud. Code § 267, that suits in ,quity shall
not be maintained in the federal courts in any case whehe a plain,
adequate and complete remedy may be had at law, is ofpeculiar
force in cases in which it is Lought to enjoin the collection of state
taxes. P. 525.
3. That refusal to pay an allegedly unconstitutional state tai will
result in civil and criminal penalties and irreparable damage to the
plaintiff's business is not basis for a suit in the federal court to enjoin collection, if the legal remedy of paying under protest and
suing the collector to recover is afforded by the state law. P. 526.
4. 8uch a legal remedy exists under the statutes and decisions of
Mississippi. P. 527.
5. Such legal remedy, although against the collecting officer rather
than the State or municipality, is to be deemed adequate, where the
bill does not allege special circumstances showing inability of the
plaintiff to pay the tax, or of the collecting officer to respond to
judgiment. P. 528.

