OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U. S.

although the only relief of an equitable hature, sought or
allowed, was the injunction against payment over of the
tax, which was but incidental to the recovery of the money,
cannot alter the character of the right as one enforcible
at law. In determining what is a legal remedy and its
adequacy to defeat their equity jurisdiction, the federal
courts are guided by the historic distinction between law
and equity in those courts, not by the name given t6 remedies or to distinctions made between them by the state
practice. Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 110-111;, Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron Co., 150 U. S.371, 379. By
this test the remedy by suit to recover a tax which has
been paid is essentially a.legal remedy, and it is not any
the less so nor any. the less adequate because the state
practice has annexed to it an equitable remedy.
There being a legal remedy for the recovery of the tax,
no case is made for invoking the jurisdiction of equity to
enjoin collection of it in the absence of allegations setting
up special circumstances which would render the legal
remedy inadequate. See Matthews'v. Rodgers, supra;
Arkansas Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Madde, 175 U. S. 269;
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. v. O'Connor, 223
U. S. 280; Singer Sewing Machine Co. V. Benedict,
229 U. S. 481.
Reversed.

'UTAH ET L. v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 42. Argued January 19, 20, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.
1. One who has contracted with a State to purchase lands, the legal
title to which was certified to the State by the United States in reliance upon falseproofs as to their character fraudulently made or procured by him, and who, in a suit against him by the United States,
* Together with No. 48, Carbon County Land Co. v. United States.

TAR v. UNITED STATES.
534

535

Statement of the Case.

has been perpetually enjoined from 'setting up any claim to the
lands by a decree establishing the fraud and adjudging the equitable title and the right of possession to be in the United States and
noright, title or interest in himnself,--can gain no interest in the
lands adverse to the United States by a subsequent conveyance
from the State. See s. c., 274 U. S. 640. P. 542.
2. The same disability attaches to one who purchased from the participant in the fraud, with notice. Id.
3. A contract to sell land -at so much per acre payable in yearly
installments passes the equitable title, leaving in the vendor the
mere right to retain the legal title as'semcrity for the unpaid balance.
P. 543.
4. Where the equitable title to land that a State contracted to sell to a
private vendee on deferred payments has been adjudged in a suit
against the latter to be eitirely in the United States because of bis
fraud in inducing the United States to grant the State its title, the
State, having notice of the decree, can not thereafter receive any
interest by transfer from such vendee, or from a purchaser from
him with notice; and if it relinquish its rights under its contract
and assume to convey title to such vendee, or his purchaser, for a
new price secured by mortgage on the premises, the deed and
mortgage, and also lieis for taxes thereafter laid on the land, are
subject to be canceled in a suit by the United States to which the
State is a"party. Pp. 543-545.
5. A special assistant to the Attorney General, employed to recover
'land of which the United States has been defrauded, can not, by
statements made to an adverse claimant, estop'the United States
from asserting its rights in the land. P. 545.
6. The question of mineral character need not be reexamined in this
case, since it was adjudicated against the private claimants in the
earlier suit, and. the State, having relinquished to one of them its
only interest (its vendor's title), has no standing ito raise the question. P. 546.
7. Whether, the statute of limitation on suits to cancel patents applies
0 a suit to cancel a certification, need not be decided where the
relief sought and obtained is the establishment of equitable rights"
without disturbing the certification. 'Id.
46 F. (2d) 980, affirmed.

CE1RTIORAAI, 283 U. S. 816, to review a decree reversing
one of the District. Court and directing cancellation of a
mortgage and tax liens, claimed by the State, ,and direct-

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1931..
Argument for Coal Co.

284 U. S.

ing a. conveyance of the lands and accounting for their use
by the other petitioners, who were vendees under the
State. See s. c., 274 U. S. 640; 9 F. (2d) 640. Also 228
Fed. 431; 248 U. S. 594.

Mr. Wi.

J. Donovan, with whom Mr. George P.

Parker, Attorney General of Utah' was on the brief, for
Utah.,
The State is not,estopped by the decree entered in 1914
in a suit:in which it was not a party.'
This suit is barred by the statute of limitations.
United States v. Winona & St. P. R., Co., 165 U. S. 463.
See also Deweese v. Reinhard; 165 U. S. 386; ,Shaw v.
Kellogg, 170 U S. 312; Langdeauv. Hanes, 21 Wall. 521;
Curtnerv. United States, 149 U. S. 662, 675; McCreery v.
Haskell, 119 U. S. 327; Frasher v. O'Connor, 115 U. S.
102; United States v. Kern River'Co., 264 Fed. 412.
The General Land Office, both before and after the
passage of the Act of 1891, has consistently employed
the word "patent" to include both "patent" and "certification." Congress has repeatedly used the word in
both senses.
The United States may not avoid -the bar of limitations by suing to impress the lands with a constructive
trust. United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 209 U. S.
447, 450;, United States v. Winona & St. P. R. Co., 165
U. S. 463; Elmendory v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Lockhart v. Leeds, 195 U. S. 427; .United States v. New Orleans Pac. Ry. Co., 248 U. S. 507..
In so far as the State is concerned the lands were hot
obtained as a result of a. material misrepresentation of
the known facts as to the character of the lands.
Mr. Mahlon E. Wilson, with whom Mr. Frank K. Nebeker was on the brief, for the Independent Coal &
Coke Co.

UTAH v. UNITED STATES.
534

Argument for Land Co.

Neither the St.te nor the Independent Coal & Coke
Company is affected by the decree entered in 1914.
The limitation act of March 3, 1891, barred the right
of the United States as against the State, and had the
effect of conferring ownership on the State; and this
ownership inures to the benefit of the Independent Coal
& Coke Co.
The certifications were not fraudulent. According to
the legal standard existing at the time, the land was nonmineral. It was hot -known to be mineral in character
before the year 1907, if ever. If, under the evidence, such
land can be determined to be coal land, the determination can be arrived at only by making a retroactive appli-.
cation of a standard adopted approximately ten years
after the certifications were made.
The State took the grant -from the United States,
charged with the obligationof establishing and maintaining the agricultural college and other. institutions. This
was a valuable consideration. The State acted innocently
and is a purchaser for value without notice. The relation of the Independent Coal & Coke Company to the
State is direct, and not through the Carbon County Land
Company; and therefore the State's title inures to the
benefit of the former as to 1,120 acres.
Mr. Samuel A. King for the Carbon County Land Co.
Appellant's rights are not controlled by the decree of
1914. A party whose right to land has been adversely
adjudicated in a former suit is not precluded in a second
suit between the same parties from setting up a newly
acquired title. Barrows v. Kindred, 4 Wall. 399; Merryman v. Bourne, 9 Wall. 592; United States v. Southern
Pac. R. Co., 223 U. S.565.
A decree can be res judicata only as to matters actually
decided, or which can be decided in such suit. Dowell v.
Applegate, 152 U. S.327.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

The statute of limitations has run in favor of the State.
United States v. Beebe, 17 Fed. "36; United States v.
McElroy, 25 Fed. 804; United States v. Stinson, 197 U. S.
300; United States v. Detroit T.- L. Co., 131 Fed. 668;
Shooters Island Shipyard Co. v. Standard Shipbuilding
Corp., 293 Fed. 706, 715; United States v. The Thekla, 266
U. S. 328; United States v. Hines, 298 Fed. 853; United
States v. Chandler, 209 U. S. 447; United States v.,Smitht
181 Fed. 545; Kansas Lumber Co. v. Moores, 212 Fed. 153;
United States v. Whited & Wheeless, 232 Fed. 140;
United States.v. Winona R. Co.; 165 U. S. 467; United
States v. Bellingham Bay Co., 6 F.. (2d) 102; Stockley v.
United States, 260 U. S. 532, 542,543; BoAtrke v. Southern Pac. R. Co., 234 U. S. 669,- 693; Cramer v. United
States, 261 U. S. 219, 234; Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S. 312,
351; Bardenv. Southern Pac.R. Co., 154 U. S. 288.
The rights of the Carbon County Land Company aie inseparably connected with the rights of the State.
The certifications were not fraudulent because, according to the legal standard existing at the time, the lands
were non-mineral. Clancey v. Barker, 131 Fed. 161, 171.
The State is not bound by the decree of 1914.
Solicitor General TAacher, with whom Assistant A.'
torney General Richardson, and Messrs. Whitney North
Seymour and Nat M. Lacy were on *the brief, 'for, the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE STO NE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Certiorari was granted in these cases, 283 'U. S. 816,
to review a decree of the Circuit .Court of Appeals-for
the Tenth Circuit, by which 'it reversed a decree of the
District Court for Utah. and adjudged that the United
States was entitled to certain lands'described in the bill
of complaint and that the. petitioners' title to the land
is impressed with a trust in favor of the United States.

UTAH v. UNITED STATES.
534

Opinion of the Court.

It specifically decreed.the cancellation of a certain -mortgage and of tax liens on the lands claimed by the State
of Utah, and directed conveyance of the lands and an
accounting for their use by the other petitioners. 46 F.
(2d) 980.
The sufficiency of the-original bill of complaint was upheld and substantially all the questions now presented
were considered and determined by this Court in Indepehdent Coal & Coke Co. v. United States, 274 U. S. 640.
The suit was originally brought against the two corporate
petitioners and certain individuals, the state not being a
party, and the circumstances, so far as they then appeared,
"were set out in the opinion of this Court as follows (pp.

642-644):
"This is a second suit by the United States, and is in
aid of the first, for the restoration to the government of
some fifty-five hundred acres of public lands located in
Utah, title to which was procured by a fraud perpetrated
upon the land officers of the United States. The first suit,
which resulted in a judgment for the government
(affirmed 228 Fed. 431), was predicated upon the following circumstances.
"The United States, in 1894, made, a grant of public
lands to the State of Utah to aid in the establishment of
an agricultural college, certain schools and asylums and
for other purposes. (§§ 8 and 10, Act of July 16, 1894,
c. 138, 28 Stat. 107, 109, 110.) -Mineral lands were nbt included. See Milner v. U~iited States, 228 Fed: 431, 439;
United.States v. Sweet, 245 U. S.563; Mullan v. United
States, 118 U. S. 271, 276; § 2318 R. S." The grant was
not of lands in place. Selections were to be made by-the
state with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
from unappropriated public lands, in such manner as the
legislature should provide. The legislature (Laws, Utah,
1896, c. 80) later created a board of land, commissioners
with general supervisory powers over the disposition of

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

-

284 U. S.

the lands and with authority to select particular lands
under the grants.
"During the period from December 10, .1900, to September 14, 1903, Milner and others, the predecessors in
interest of the Carbon County Land Company, one of the
petitioners, made several applications to the State Commission to select and obtain in the name of the state the
lands now in question, and at the same time entered into
agreements with the Commission to purchase the lands
from the state. In aid of the applications and agreements, Milner and his associates filed affidavits with the
Commission stating that they were acquainted with the
character of these lands which they affirmed were nonmineral and did not contain deposits of coal. They also
deposed that the applications were not made for the purpose of fraudulently obtaining mineral holdings, but to
acquire the land for agricultural use. The applicants
were obviously aware, that the affidavits or the information contained in them would in due course be submitted
to the Land Office of the'United States with the State
Commission's selections, as they were in fact. On the
faith of these and other documents, the selections were
approved by the Secretary of the Interior and the tracts
in question were certified to the state on various dates,
the last being in December, 1904. Certification was the
mode of passing title from the United States to the state.
" In January, 1907, the United States brought the first
suit, against Milner and his associates and the Carbon
County Land Company, which had been organized by
Milner to take over the land, and was controlled by him.
The suit was founded on the charge that the certifications
were procured by the fraudulent misrepresentations of
Milner and the others since they knew at the time of the
applications that the lands contained coal deposits. ...
the bill-. . . sought the quieting of the government's title.
It affirmatively appears that on June 8, 1914, the district

UTAH v. UNITED STATES.
534

Opinion of the Court.

court entered a decree declaring that the United States
'isthe -owner' and 'entitled to the possession' .of the
lands in question and that the defendants 'have no right,
title or interest, or right of possession,' and perpetually enjoining them' from setting up or making any claim to or
upon said premises.' The Court of Appeals, in affirming
the decree, held that ' the whole transaction was a scheme
or conspiracy on the part of Milner to fraudulently obtain
the ownership of the lands from the United States."'
In its first opinion, this Court held, for reasons stated
and upon authorities cited, that the decree in the earlier
suit conclusively established that the. Carbon County
Land Company was a party to the fraudulent conspiracy
to procure certification of the title to the lands to -he
state; that as against the Land Company and all claiming under it, the United States was equitably entitled to
the land; that the Land Company, so far as it had acquired any interest in the land, was not shielded from theconsequence of its fraud by having.procured a conveyance
to the state, even though the latter was not a party to
the fraud; and that the Land Company could not acquire
any further interest in the property from the state free
of the obligation to make restitution of it, which equity
imposes on one who despoils another of his property by
fraud. Independent Coal & Coke Co. v. United States,
supra,pp. 647, 648.
As the Independent Coal & Coke Company had acquired its alleged interest in the' lands subsequently to
their certification by the United States, it was held that
it took them subject to the equities of. the United States
unless the defense of bona fide purchaser was affirmatively
established, and " that none of the defendants, nor any
claiming under them with notice, could by any legal device, however ingenious, acquire title from the state free
from the taint of their fraud." Ibid., pp. 646, 647.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 193L
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

After the cause had been remanded to the district
court, the two corporate petitioners answered, and the
state, which had contented itself with filing a brief amicus
curiae when the cause was first here, was permitted to
intervene. By its bill of complaint in intervention the
state set up that -at the time of the selection and certification of the lands it "believed and has ever since believed
that the land so certified by it was agricultural in character and it did not contain any known mineral;" that
in 1920, which was subsequent to the decree in the first
suit, it had entered into a new contract with the Land
Company, under which it had sold and conveyed the lands
tW that Company for $100 an acre, -or a total of $556,428,
.taking back a mortgage for that amount, and had since
assessed taxes, which were liens upon the lands, aggregating $40,000., The Government, by its answer, prayed the
cancellation of the mortgage and tax liens or, in the alternative, if that relief were denied, that the certification of
the lands to the state by the United States be cancelled.
After a trial upon evidence, the district court, without
making findings, gave judgment cancelling the patent
from the state to the Land Company and quieting the
state's title. The Court of Appeals, in reversing this
decree, made findings, which the evidence supports, that
the state, as alleged, had, in 1920, patented the lands to
the Carbon County Land'Company, taking back a mortgage for the purchase price, and that in the same year the
Land Company had sold 1120 acres of the land to the Independent Coal & Coke Company, which had notice of all
the proceedings, including the final decree in the first suit.
Upon these findings, it is apparent, from our earlier
opinion, that neither of the corporate petitioners can retain any interest in the land, as against the United States.
As the Coal Company purchased a part of the lands with
notice of the equities of the United States against the
Land Company, it took subject to those equities and, can

UTAH v. UNITED STATES.
534

Opinion of the Court.

be in no better position with respect to them than its
grantor. The Land Company, a party to the fraud by
which the certification of the lands to the state was procured, and to the decree in the first'suit which so determined, could not improve its position by taking any further conveyance from the state. However innocent the
state and its officials may have been in this transaction,
any interest the Land Company could acquire from the
state in its own behalf was but the fruit of its fraud and
of its violation of the decree against it. This aspect of the
case was discussed and passed upon in our first 6pinion,
pp. 647, 648, 649, and the conelusion there reached requires affirmance of the decree so far as it affects the Land
Company and the Coal Company.
The State of Utah can stand.in no better situation with
"respect to the mortgage and tax liens which-it asserts. A
copy of the bill of complaint in the original suit was
handed to the State Board of Land Commissioners when
the suit was begun in 1907 and the state has been fully
advised of all the subsequent proceedings. By 1904, it
had contracted to sell the lands to Milner and associates
for $1.50-an acre, payable in installments of 25 cents a
year. By virtue of these contracts, the vendees were
equitably entitled to the land, and the state's interest was
but that of a vendor, having the mere right to retain the
title as security for any unpaid balance of the agreed purchase price. See Williams v. United States, 138 U. S. 514,
516; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177, 224. . It was the equitable owvnership in the lands thus acquired by Milner and
associates and conveyed by them to the Land Cohmpany,
which the decree in the first suit, in 1914, adjudged to be
in the United States.
The Government's allegation in its answer.to the intervention complaint of the state, that at the time of the
decree the purchase price had been paid in fuln, was not
denied by the. state's replication. No evidence on the

OCTOBER. TERM, 1931..
Opinion of "the Court.

284 U. S.

point was offered, but in the present circumstances we'do
not think it material. Subject to the state's security
title and right as vendor, every interest in the land was
vested in the Land Company, whose rights remained unchallenged and unaffected by any action of 'the state when
the decree was entered in the first suit. That decree irrevocably fastened the equities of the United States upon
every right and interest which the Land Company had or
,could procure in the land. - So far as the state was concerned, the decree substituted the United States in the
place and stead of the Land Company as equitable owner
of the land and stripped the latter of power to surrender
-its interest to the state.' The decree1 was likewise of
'binding 'force upon everyone, including the state, who
might later knowingly attempt to acquire any new or
different interest 'ih the land in. derogation of the equities, adjudged to be in the United States. Even if we
were to assume that at the time of the decree there was
an unpaid balance of purchase money (which could not
have exceeded $1.50 an acre), the state was' entitled only
to retain its title until payment was made. Beyond this
it could make no profit and derive no benefit free of the
equitable rights of the United States. Any grant of the
lands by the state to the Land Company or to a stranger,
The decree provided "That the plaintiff [the United States]. is
the owner and entitled to possession of the following described property,.to-wit: . .- and that plaintiff's title thereto be quieted
against any and all claims of the defendants, or either of them or of
any person or persons claiming, or hereafter to claim through or
under the said defendants, or any or either of them; that said defendants, and each of them, have no right, title or 'interest, or right
of possession in or to said premises hereinabove described, or to any
part thereof; and the said defendants, and each of them, are perpetually restrained and enjoined from setting up or making any
claim to or upon said premises, or any part thereof, and all claims
of said defendants, and each of them, are hereby quieted."

UTAH v. UNITED STATES.
534

545

Opinion of the Court.

without the assent of the United States, would have been
in violation of its equitable rights as they had been adjudicated by te decree. See Gorham v. Farson, 119 Ill.
425; 10 N. E. 1;-Houghwout v. Murphy, 22 N. J. Eq. 531,
546-547; Taylor v. Kelly, 56 N. C. 240.
Ignoring those rights, -the state issued a patent to the
of its wrongLand Company, receiving a the proceeds
ful Donveyance, the mortgage of the Land Company, an
active participant inihe fraudulent scheme, to secure the
increased payments of $100 an acre. It actively facilitated the conveyance to the Coal Company by the Land
Company, by agreeing with both that the state would
release from the mortgage the lands conveyed to the Coal
Company upon payment-of $112,000; which the Coal
Company undertook to pay. This attempted enlargement of the state's interest in the lands, in diminution
of the equities of the United States, like the conveyance,
mortgage, and agreement by which the attempt was made,
was a violation of the decree and of the dquitable rights
confirmed by it, from which the state can take no benefit.
This is not any the less the case because the Land Company, as against the United States, could not rightly
receive the patent or retain its benefits or grant to any
other than the United States any interest in the patented
lands.
The state urges that the United States is estopped to
assert any claim to the lands ai against it by statements
made by a Special Assistant Attorney General in z, onversation between him and members of the Board of
Land Commissioners in 1907, when he delivered fo them
a copy of the bill of complaint in the first suit. We agree
with the court below that his statements cannot be regarded as so inconsistent with the bill as to form any
basis for the alleged estoppel. In any case, he 'vas obviously without authority to dispbse of the rights of the
85912*-32-----35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

United States in its mineral lands and could not estop it
from asserting rights which he could not surrender. Utah
Power & Light Co. v. United States, 243 .U. S. 389, 408,
409; see also San Pedroand Cafion delAgua Go. v. United
States, 146 U. S. 120, 131 et seq.
It is also argued that the lands were not mineral lands,
and that the adjudication to that effect in the first suit
is not res adjudicataas to the state. That question was
again litigated in the present suit, and upon this issue the
court below, upon sufficient evidence, found in favor of
the United States. See Diamond Coal & Coke Co. v.
United States, 233 U. S. 236. But we do not .think that
question requires our examination or is open upon the
present record. The decree in the first. sit adjudicated
the equitable rights of the United States as against the
corporate petitioners. For reasons already stated, the
state has at no time had or asserted any interest superior
to that of the United States, except its vendor's title;
which it has since relinquished to the Land Company.
- In dur first opinion we held that the six year statute-of
limitation' of actions to cancel patents granted by the
United States, even if embracing a suit brought for cancellation of a certification of lands by the United States,
had no application to the relief sought against the cor-porate petitioners. For the same reason it can have none
to the relief granted, against the state in accordance with
the prayer of the bill. The present suit did not seek cancellation of the certification unless that prayer was denied..
It asserts equitable rights to interests in the land derived
under and by virtue of the certification. The decree proceeds, and is affirmed here, on the ground that the mortgage and tax liens asserted by the state are subordinate
to .those rights.
We have considered, but find it unnecessary to discuss;
other objections to the decree.
Affirmed.

