890

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.,

284US.

burden-,upon that body- If this is so, it results from the
new policy declared by the Congress, which, in effect, ivests
in. the Commission the ,power toegislate i specific cases
as to the future conduct of the carrier. Tuy it is alsoto be
observed that so long as the,Act, continues in itspresent
form, the great ,rass-of rates will be carrier made'rates,
as to whic theCommission need take no action except of
its own volition or upon complaint, and may 'in such case
award reparation by reason of the charges
-tade
to shippers under the fheretofoire existing rate.
-Where -the-Commission as, upon coiplaint and after
.
hearing, declared what is the maximum reasonable aite
to be charged' by a carrer, it ma ot at ailaer time, and
upon the same or additional'evidence as to the-fact-situation existing when its.previous order was promulgated, by
declaring its own finding as, to reasonableness erroneous,
subject a , carrier which cbnformed'thereto to the payment
.of reparation- measured)by, what,. the Commission' now
holds it should,-have decided, in the earlier proceeding to
be a reasonable rate.
,The judgment is

,

Affirmed.
MR. JUsT'ICE HOILMEs and MRi. JusTic BRAMEis-thihk

that the judgment sh6uld be 'reversed for the reasons
stated by Judge Hutcheson in the concukring opinion in
Eagl' Cottony Oil Co. ,v. Souther-n Ry. CO., 51 F. (2d)
443, 445. 7
DUNN v. UNITED STATES.'
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT, COURT. 'OF APPEAS FOR, THE

NINTH, CIRCUIT.,

No. 393. Argued -NNvember'24, 1931.- Decided Januiary'll, 1932.
1. Where no question, was raised in the courts below with respect.to
.Ihe sufficiency of ah indictment, and -no such question is, presented
here, its sufficiency will be assumed. P. 392.

)UNN v. UNITED STATES.
390

39i

Opinion of the Court.

2. Upon an indictment-Mi three counts charging (1) maintenance of
a common nuisance by keeping intoxicating liquor for sale at a
specified place, (2) unlawful possEssion, and (3) unlawful sale, .a
defendant .was found guilty on the first and was acquitted on the
second and third. , The evidence was the same on each count. It
was contended that the evidence -on the nuisance count was insufficient and that the verdict was inconsistent.. Held:
(1) The evidence on-the nuisanc6 count ws sufficient to warrant
a verdict of guilty. P. 392. "
(2) Consistency in the verdict was not required. P. 393.
(3) The verdict inay,not be upset by speculation or inquiry into.
whether it was the result of compromise or mistake on-the part of
the jury. P. 394.
3. Where offenses are separately charged in the counts of a. single
indictment, though, tlle evidence is the same in support of each, an
acquittaI on one -may not be pleaded as res judicata of the other.
P'.393.

f

--

50F. (2d) 779, affirmed..

Ch.anoER, post, p.t 607, to review-a judgment of 'the
Circuit Qourt of Appeals -which- affirmed a judgment of
the District Court uponl a verdict of guilty under thE
National Prohibition Act. See Borum v. U. S., post,
p.-596.

Mr. Roger O'DonneU argued the cause; and Mr. Raymond T. Coughlin filed a,brief, for petitioner.
S6licitor General'Thcher, with whom Assistant.Attor-ney General Youngquist and Messrs. Mahlon D. Kiefer,
John J. Byrne, and Francis H. Horan were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the -opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner was indicted in three counts, first, for
maintaining a common nuisance by keeping foi" sale' at aeL
specified place intoxicating liquor, second, for unlawful
posses sion of intoxicating liquor, andthird, for the unlawful sale of such liquor. The july acquitted him on the:

392

OCTOBER -TERM, 1081,
-Opinion of the Court.

284 U.9'

_sec6nd and,third counts, and found him guilty on the first.
No question was raised in the courts below with respect to
the' sufficiency of the indictment on the first count, and
no such question has been presented here. The case was
tried upon'the assumption that the indictment was'good
as to that count, and, in the opinion of the majority, we
should make the same assumption.
The defendant says that the evidence did not warrant a
conviction; and that the verdict on the second and third
counts is inconsistent with that upon the first; and that for
this reasoh also he is entitled to be discharged. The evidence was the same for all the counts. The defendant
owned the establishment where the alleged sale took
place. It consisted of a front room where fishing tackle,
sporting goods, cigars -and soft drinks were sold; and a
larger room in the rear with pool tables and a bar. Two
prohibition agents and two unknown men walked in and
ordered from the defendant three glasses of whiskey and
-one of beer and were served'without further conversation.
A little later two more drinks were' called for and furnished. The- whiskey was served in ordinary whiskey
glasses from underneath the bar and the money paid for
it twenty-five cents a glass, was put into a cash register
behind the bar. The testimony, if believed, showed.a
regular course of business, which manifestly was continu-ous, Fisherv. United States, 32 F. (2d) 602, 604, and warranted a verdit of guilty on the nuisance count. The
defendant gave evidence that he was elsewhere at the
time of the alleged sale and did not make it. He contends
that the verdict is inconsistent, since it negatives possession and affirms the nuisance, the proof of the commission
of both alleged offenses consisting of identical evidence.
The Government says that even though the jury seems to
have believed that the defendant was elsewhere at the
time of the- alleged sale and did not make it, the verdict

DUNN v. UNITED STATES.
390

Opinion of the Court.

is not necessarily inconsistent, for some third person, with
defendant's'knowledge, may have been doing business on
the premises, and if so they were: a nuisance, and the
defendant was guilty although he neither, possessed nor
sold intoxicating liquors upon them; that whereas the
Government's witnesses may have been mistaken in saying that the defendant sold, they ma have been right to
the extent that someone did, and if ,that, be true the
defendant's knowledge 'could. be inferred, this being his
place 6f'business and he being habitually'present there.
It is further argued that it may be inferred that he'received the money coming from the sale, and that he know.
ingly abetted the seller in the acts that created the
nflisance on the premises that the defendant controlled.
Consistency in the verdict is' not 'necessary. Each
count in an indictment is regarded as if it was a separate
indictment. Latham v. The Queen, 5 Best & Smith 635,
642, 648. Selvester v. United States, 170 U. S. 262. If
separate indictments had been presented against the defendant for possession and for maintenance of a nuisance,
and had been separately tried, the same evidence being
offered in support of each, an acquittal on one could not
be pleaded as res judicata of the other. Where the of-"
fenses are separately charged in the counts of a, single
indictment the same rule must hold. As was said in
Steckl6er v. United States, 7 F. (2d)- 59, 60:
"The most that can be said in such cases is that the verdict shows that either in the acquittal or the conviction the
jury did not speak their real conclusions, but that does not'
show that they were not convinced of the defendant's
guilt. We- interpret, the acquittal as no more than their
assumption of a power which they had no right to 'exercise, but to which they were disposed through lenity."
Compare Horning v..District of Columbia, 254 U. S.
135.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

894

284 U.S.

BuTLER, J., dissenting.

That the verdict may have'been the result of compromise, or of a mistake on the part of the jury, is possible.
But verdicts cannot be upset by speculation or, inquiry
into such matters.
Judgmentaffirmed.
M

BUTLR,
s.mJEsTrcE

dissenting.,

and accuses petiI
The indictment contains three counts
tioner'of violations of the liquor-laws. The first is under
§ 33 and the other'two are under § 12 of Title1 27, U. S.
Code, being, respectively, §§ 21 and 3 of Title II of the
National Prohibition Act, 41 Star. 308, 314. TheI pertinent words are:
":33.

Any '

building

.

.

.

where

.orplac

'or barintoxicating liquor is nanufactured, sold, kept,
tered'in violation of this chapter [title], and all intoxicating liquor and property kept and used in maintaining the
same, is hereby declared to be' a common nuisance, and
any person who maintains such a common nuisance' shall
be guilty. of a misdemeanor
or ps"§ 12. No person shall . . . sell . .
sess any intoxicating liquor except as authorizbd in 'this
.

-chapter '[title].

.

"

."

'The first counit cites § 33' and charges that petitioner'. on
'the fourth of July, 1930 (the evidence shows' fliat June 26
was meant) "at 'a place known as No. '301-2d Street, ii
.'- mantain a com-.
did-- ..
the City of Eureka . .'.
mon nuisance, in'then and there knowingly -and willfully
committing 'a prohibited and unlawful act 'of keeping for
. to
sale at said place' ce i tain intoxicating liquor
beer
drink
of
and
one
of
whiskey
five
drinks
wit:
The second cites § 12 and charges that he then and there
committed 'a.prohibited and unlawful act of "possession
of the said certain intoxicating liquor." The 'third cites
§ 12 and charges that on June 26, 1930, he did then and
'

'

DUNN v. TYXNITEl STATES,
390

BuTLiR,.J.,, dissenting.

there knowingly and willfully commit, a prohibited, and
unlawful act of " sale of certain intoxidating liquor
to wit: five drinks of whiskey dnd *onedrink, of beer.'
The nuisance charged is specifically .limited.,to -the
keeping for sale" of the six drinks.mentioned., -The unlawful possession count is limited to.,the same, drinks.
The unlawful sale alleged is limited to six,.drinks. The
evidence showed that the same liquor -constituted, the
sole basis of each count.At the trial it was shown that petitioner owned and
carried on business in the place 'described; that there was
a-front room where Sorting goods, cigars and soft' drinks
were sold and a back room in which defehdant had a-bar,
pool and card tables and all kinds of soft drinks. ,-,The bar
was used to wait on dustomers in that room.-, ,There were
some one-ounce whiskey glasses which p'et.itioner testified
were used to,serve bitters.

,

.,

,

.

,,

-

Two federal prohibition agents testified that about 7:30
o'clock in the afternoon of June 26, 1930, they- and two
unknown ,men, .whom they referred to,,as "pick-ups,".
entered the rear room and found, petitioner b6hind thebar; that one of the agents bought fromlpetitioner ' three
whiskeys and one beer and paid him a 'dollar Which he
rang up on the cash register; that the-other-, agent bought
from him two more drinks of whiskey and that all such
liquor was consumed on the premises byVthe 'agents and
their companions. No other sale was shown'. N6 arrest,
search or seizure was then made or .attempted._ Marron
v- United States, 75 U. S. 192. .Eight days later federal
officers having.a warrant for arrest accompaiied'by one of
the prohibition agents'raided the place and arrested petitioner. Thiere was no evidence that any liquor ;was found.
Petitioner testified and introduced other evideice to-show
that he was absent -frdm'Eureka' and' not in -th. place
until some time between 8:0O and "830 o'clock that

,evening..

60TOBER TERM, 1931.
Buim, J., dissenting.

284U.S."

The trial court cliarged:
"The element of nuisance is the keeping of intoxicating liquor for sale. If you find from the evidence that
the defendant had in his possession any liquor .: . .
for the purpose of such sale, then you must find the defendant guilty .
..
"If you find from the evidence that the defendant unlawfully possessed intoxicating liquior, of course it will be
your duty to find him guilty of that charge;
"Of course, if . . . you believe that he is guilty
of having sold liquor at his said place of business, it will be your duty to find him guilty of that.
charge.
"When an indictment charges a defendant with crime,
it is not necessary for -the Government to prove that the
act was committed by the defendant personally, but it is
sufficient for the Government to prove that the act was
committed by an agent of the defendant and committed
in the course of the agency and in furtherance of it...
"I instruct you . . . that it is the law that 'Whoever directly commits any act constituting an offense defined in any law -of the United States or aids or abets or
procures its commission is a principal.' [apparently referring to 18 U. S. C., § 550]
"The defendant has introduced evidence tending to
show that he was not present at the time and place of
the commission of the crime charged in this indictment.
If the evidence of an alibi in connection with all
the other evidence raises a reasonable doubt of the presence of the defendant. at the time and place of the crime
he should be acquitted."
The jury acquitted petitioner on the possession and
sales counts and convicted him on the nuisance count.
The court by the first quoted instruction, in harmony
with the* pleadings, authorized the conviction of petitioner upon the finding of the possession for sale of the

DUNN v. UNITED STATES.
390

BuTLR,

397

J., dissenting.

six drinks without more. The familiar rules that the
principal may be beld for acts of his agent and that one
who aids or procures the commission of crime is a principal applied equally to all the accusations and were not
limited to the first count. The charge that if petitioner
was absent he must be acquitted also applied on all
coumfts. There is no ground to hold that the jury, notwithstanding petitioner's absence from the place when
the prohibition agents were there, found him guilty of
nuisance and that because of that absence it found him
not guilty of the very act alleged to constitute the nuisance. The jury must have rejected his alibi. And, if
petitioner through another kept for sale the liquor as
charged in the first count he necessarily acted through
the same ag6nt as to the identical possession alleged in
the second.
The definition of nuisance in § 33 manifestly requires
continuity of maintenance, that is, a practice or course of
business. Inherently it is a continuous 6ffense having
duration. Cf. In re Snow, 120 UI. S. 274, 281. Blockburger v. United States, ante, p. 299. This is confirmed by
§ 34, which authorizes temporary and permanent injunctions for the abatement of such nuisances. But to hold:
that unlawful possession or a single, sale, without more,
constitutes a nuisance as defined "would be to render
meaningless the other provisions of the law in which the
Congress has denounced these specific acts, and provided
punishment for their violation:" Barkerv. United States,
289 Fed. 249, 250. A single sale, if attended by circumstances warranting the inference that the defendant is
engaged in a practice of which the sale is but an instance,
may be sufficient to establish the offense. But mere possession for sale in a building of a half-dozen drinks does
not measure up to the standard. Lewinsohn v. United
States, 278 Fed. 421, 425. Reynolds v. United States, 282
Fed. 256, 258. Singer v. United States, 288 Fed. 695, .696..

-OCTOBER: TERM, 1931.
BOVTER, J., dissenting.

284 U.S.

Miller v: United States, 300 Fed. 529, 537. United States
v.,,Ward, 6,F. (2dy4 82 Schechter v. United States, 7 F.
(2d) 881. Fisherv. United,States, 32 F. (2d) 602, 604.,
The facts alleged in the first count are not sufficient to
constitute nuisance. They: )amount only to a charge of
unlawful possession,. The count contains n]othing as to
the, character of thei place.,, No practice or course of
business,maintained or intended is alleged.. The facts set
forth are not -distinguishkbie from those alleged as co.
sfituting the unlawful -possession charged in,the second
count.,, It is of nq legal significance that the pleader cited
§ 33 in the first ,ount.and § 12 in the, others and referred

to the offense as" nuisance" and failed to characterize or
name tlose charged- in the others. ,Williams y.; United
States, 168j. S., 382,.389. Hammek v. United States, 271
U. S. 620, 625. People v. Aro, 6 Cal. 207. State y.
_Muay, 41,Iowa 580.,
By flnding petitioner not, guilty Under the second and
thiid countslthe, jy
conclusively established that,the
eyi denice was not sufficient to'prove the unlawful possession, or,sale there ,alleged, .,Since the first count chargeo
nothing more than unlawful possession, this amounted to
cpntradictor- findings on the same fact.,, But even if that
count charged a,nuisance, the unlawful keeping. ,of that
liqUor for sale' was essential, to -the,offense, in fact the
corpus Oelicti, and ,the verdict of guilty necessarily in.
eluded a finding of, the ver ypossession that whs-conclusiyely,negatived by, the verdict LUnder the second count.
If the finding of guilt on the -first count were not contradictedby another fiding cpntained in the same verdict,.
or if itstood alone, a judgment would properly be entered
.hereonpcOnvicting petitioner: of the unlawful -possession.
18 U.$. ,C.- §565... Samlin-v. United States, 278 Fed. 170.
Sparf and Han.en -v. United States,, 156 U. S., 51, 62.
Wallace-y. United States, 162,U. S. 466, 476.,

-

DUNN v. UNITED STATES.
390

3'99

BUTIR, J., dissenting..

This is not a failure of the jury to pass on all the counts
submitted to them as in Selvester V. United States, 170
U. S. 262, and Latham v. The Queen, 5 B.'& S. 635, cited.
in the opinion here. In this case the jury responded to
all the issues, but the'findings cannot be reconciled.- Possession was alleged in the Second count and negatived'by
the jury. Nothing remaifis to support the opposite finding under the first count. The repugnancy is Such that if
the first is accepted the second must be rejected. I am of
opinion that this record plainly requires an express and
unqualified decision that these findings conflict and are
completely repugnant.
What is the legal effect of such conflict in the. verdict?
Where. the jury's action reflects mere inconsistency in
the consideration of the evidence, which results in apparently illogical or unreasonable conclusions, -courts will
...
disregard differences and give effect t6 the verdict.
In civil cases where there is conflict betweei 'a special
arid general verdict the former will prevail. Lemnke v.
Chicago,.M. & St. P. R. Co., 39 Wis. 449. ,If here the
first count stated facts which taken with the specified possession of six drinks would be sufficient to constitute-nui'Dimmick ir. -United States, 121 Fed. 638, 642. Boone v. United"
States, 257 Fed. 963, 968. American Socialist Society v. United States,
266 Fed. 212, 214. Bullocklv. United States, 289-Fed 29, 32.'qCar-'
rignan v. United States, 29,0 Y ed. 189, 190. Lee, Choy v. United
States, 293 Fed. 582, 584. Dallas.v. United States, 4 F. (2d) 201,
202.. Hesse v. United States, 28 F. (2d) 770. United States V.Anderson, 31TF. (2d) 436. Pankratz Lumber"Co. y. Unitad States, 50 F.
'(2d) 174. Thompion v. State, 177 Ark. 1, 10; 5. S. W'. (2d) 355.
People v. Edwards, 72 Cal. App; 102, 117; 236 Paa.. 044. 'Holt v.
People (Colo.),- IPa. (2d) 921, 922. - Rokvic v. "State,194 Ind. 450 "
143 N. E. 357. State v. Brizendine, 114 I(an. 699, 703; 220 Pae. 174.
Lanasa v. State, 109 Md., 602, 609; 71 AtI. 1058: -State v. Datyp, 77
Mont. 387, 391; 250 Pac. 976. Weinecke v. State, 34 Neb. 14, 23;
51 N. W. 307. People v. Haupt, 247 N. Y. 369, 371; 160 N. E. 643.
State v. Broun, 198 N, 0,41; 150 S, E, 635,

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BUTLER, J., ffissenting.

284 U.S.

sauce, the finding of not guilty on' the possession count
would be in principle and effect a special finding negativing that element of the offense charged. Cf. People y.
Piper,50 Mich.,390; 15 N. W. 523. In a civil case, if the
inconsistency. i between "findings in a special verdict in
respect of a .controlling fact ,no judgment can be entered.
As said by Chief Justice Ryan: "The verdict on a material point finds for each party, and against each party;
being, in effect, equivalent to, disagreement of the jury.
The answer assumes to cut a single and indivisible truth"
in two.
.
No judgment can rest on such a verdict,
and no court should receive it." Carroll v. Bohan, 43
Wis. 218, 220.. Hawes v. Chicago & N. -W. R. Co., 41.
Wis.- 44, 51. ,Davis-v.. Farmington, 42 Wis. 425, 431.
German Ins. Co. v. Smelker, 38 Kan. .28.5; 16, Pac. 735.
Under, the common law a jury may give a special verdict
in a criminal case. -2 Hawkins P. C., 8th ed., c. 47, § 3.
4 Blackstone, pp. 360-361., Commonwealth v.-Call, 21
Pick. 509, 514. Commonwealth v. Eichelberger,,119. Pa.,
St. 254, 263; 13 Atli 422. State v. Bray, ,89 N._C. 480.
-People v. Piper, supra. No judgment may be entered.
uponan uncertain special verdict. People v. Olcott, 2
Johns. 301, 311.
In criminal cases no form of :verdict will be good which
creates a repugnancy or, absurdity in the conviction. 2
Bishop, New Criminal Procedure, 2d ed., § 1015a (5).
Wher6 one by different' counts is accused of two crimes,
which by reason Qor their nature cannot be committed by
-

the same person, a"verdict'of guilty bi both 'counts will be
held so inconsistent with itself and so uncertain in law
that 4o 1judgment can be entered thereon.-- Such verdicts
-are so meaningless as to be without force. Regina v.
Evans,'7 Cox C. 0. 151; 157. 'Rosenthal v. United States,
276 Fed. 714. Commonwealth v. Haskins,.128 Mass. 60.
Tobin v. People, 104 IR. 565. And see Commonwealth v,
Lowrey, 158 Mass. 18, 20; 32 N. E. 940,

DUNN v:,UNITED STATES.
390

BUTLER, J., dissenting-

In Regina:r.Evans, supra., one count accused the prisoner of-stealing sheep. Another coint charged him with
having received them on the same day. There was a verdict amounting to a, finding of guilty on each count. The
Court of Queen's Bench held it ihconsistent. The chief
justice announcing the judgment said (p. 157): "This
record must therefore be dealt with as if there had been a
special verdict, on which the court should find matter,
which'would not justify either an acquittal or conviction.
The practice in such a case has been to award a venire de
novo. The ,cases in Lord Raymond's reports, and the
later cases, sanction such a course, and we cannot see any
good grounds for distinguishing an uncertain general verdict, such as this, from an uncertain special verdict."
In Rosenthal v. UnitedStates, supra, three were indicted
under the Act of February 13, 1913, 37 Stat. 670. One
count accused them -fhavig bought and received-property.that had'been stolen from a car, then being a ship'ment in interstate commerce, knowmg it to have been. so
stolen. - The second count charged that at the same time
and place they had that property in their possession under
like circumstances and with like knowledge.
On the'first'count the jury found all not guilty. On the:
other count all were acquitted but one and he'was found
guilty. The evidence showed that the fproperty had been
stolen and disclosed only one transaction between the
thieves and the defendant who was found guilty. The
court said (p- 715): "By its -verdict upon the first count
of the mIdictment the jury found that the plaintiff in
error neither bought nor received .the -cigarettes from
them [the thieves] with knowledge of the.theft, and by its
verdict upon the second count that the plaintiff in error
was at the same time and place in possession of the property with such guilty knowledge. The two findings were
thus wholly inconsistent and conflicting. For this reason
we feel obliged to reverse the judgment and remand the
case for a new trial."
85012-32-20

OCTOBER- TERM, 19312
Bumv=, J., dissenting.

284 U.S.

Upon the indictmfient of several for ah offense that could
not be 'committed "Without the participatiofn- off two 'or
more of them a verdict of guilty against one aind of not
guilty for the -others i 'deemed '4holly repugnant and
iivalid. 1 Chitty; Crihinal Law, 5th Am. 'ed., p. 640. On
ifidictmeht'of riot against three a verdictfinding less than
that nunber guilty is void; for more than two must' iiot.
Hanson 'V.: 'E'ngton; Popham (2d ed.) '202. Rex v.
Heaps, 2 Salk. 593.' Th King v. Sudbisry, 12 'Mod. 262:
Rex.' 'Scott, 3 Burr. 1262, 1264. And on' a charge of conspiracy against two, a verdict convicting' only one is void.
United States v. Hamrilto, 26 Fed. Cas., 'pp. 90, 91'; 'No.
15,288. Feder v. 'United States, 257 Fed. 694,' 66. Peopl-eV. Olcott".slipra,310-311.- Queen.v. Manning, 12. Q.'B.
D. 241, 245. Queen,'v. Thoinpson 16 A. & E. 8 32 - 844
et seq. And on the trial together of persons accused as
pdncipa! and acessoy, acquittal' of th former renders a
verdictagainst the latter bad because enitrey inconsistent
with :the innocence of the person charged as the-principal
offender. 2'Coke's Inst.- 184. 'Foster, p. 360. 1 Iale
P. G., (lsiL Am. ed.),p 625. 2 fiawlcins P. C., c._29;§47
U7nited Statesv.,Crane,4 McLean -17,319;' Fed. as. N,o.
14,888:. Commonwealth Y. Andrews, 3 Mass. 126,,131.
. One accused in different, counts' of an indictment ofthe
same, crime', there beiig no difference in the,means alleged
to have beCo employed,'may not be adjudged 'guilty on a
verdict:of conviction on ,one count and of acquittal on the
other., Speiller v.. United States, 31 F. ,(2d)_,682,: 684.
State v._Akers, 278,Mo.-368, 370; 213 S.,Wi. 424.,, State V.
Headrick, 179 Mo. 300,,307; 78 S. W. 630., CfI Commonweatli v. Edds ,14 Gray 406,-,410. United: Stdtes v.
.
M1alone, 9 Fed.,897, 900. ,
Where th6re is a verdict of not guilty on one count and
a verdict of guilt on ailother and the former necessarily
determines that the -evidence' failed to establish a fact

DUNN v; UNITED STATES. •
390

403

BuTnn, J., dissenting.

which is an essential ingredient ofthe offense charged in
the. other count, then in .determining whether the evidence
was sufficient tq sustain the finding of guilt the court
must exclude from consideration thefact so found in favor
of the accused. And so, in every such casq tle question of
law for the court alivays is whether, outside the fact eliminated by the verdict of not guilty, the evidence was sufficient to warrant the conviction. _IWohenadel, Brewing
Co. v. United tates, 295 Fed..489. Peru,v. United States,
4 F. (2d), 881. Murphy _v. United.St4tes, 18 F. (2d)
509. Boyle v. United States, 22 F. (2d),,547. Kuclc-v.
State, 149 Ga. 191, 193; 99 S. E. 622. And see Baldini v.
United States, 286 Fed. 133.'
Under .am indictment by one count, accusing eight persons of, conspiracy, to maintain a nuisance and alleging
as an overt act the maintenance of that niisance, and by
another charging that -they did knowingly maintain such
.nuisance,, a verdict acquitting them of the, conspiracy
(i. e., the, agreement to maintain) and convicting them:
of having knowingly .maintained the identical nu-isance
specified i, the conspiracy charge will not sfippprt a,judgment of guilt. This, for .the reason that,: by the verd~it
that all knowingly maintained the nuisance,- theq - jurynecessarily found ,thAt :tere was an agreement -'amon g
them to maintain the nuisance" The court said: "It is
unthinkable that eight -men should for: period, of time
have knowinglymaintained and operated the place where

mtoxiting liquo was sold and kept for sae,,without
some kind of an agreement among fhemselves.," Boylev.
United States, supra, 548.,,
.A brewing company indicted for violation of the, National Prohibition Act was accused, by Ithe first count, of
unlawful manufactue at 'divers times between dates more
than a year apart. By the five counts,following it was accused of unlawful sales at different t'm'ns; and,, by the sev-

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BUTmnR, J., dissenting.

284 U.S.

enth count it *as accused of nuisance during that period
in that it maintained a place where liquor was manufactured, kept and bartered. The jury-found defendant not
guilty under the first six counts, a'nd guilty of nuisance
under the seventh. The court held thefacts alleged in the
counts on which defendant was acquitted were to be
deemed as non-existent and excluded from consideration
in determining whether there was evidence to sustain the
nuisance charged. Finding no evidence outside the facts
sb negatived, the court held conviction could not be sustained. Hohenadel Brewing Co. v. United States, supra.
The Government cites Carrignanv. United States, 290
Fed. 189; Marshallo v. United States, 298 Fed. 74;
Steckler v. United States, 7 F.. (2d) 59; and 'Gosner v.
United States, 9 F. (2d) 603. And see Seiden v. United
States, 16 F. (2d) 197.
In the -Carrignancase defendant was accused in tWo
counts of violation of liquor laws; the first count charged
unlawful sale and the second maintenance of a nuisance.
The opinion does not disclose details alleged. The jury
acquitted on the sale 'charge and convicted of nuisance.
The court distinguished the Rosenthal case, supa, and
said (p. 190).: "In the present case, plaintiff in error
could have been. convicted and sentenced upon both
counts of the indictment. He could h'ave 'been found
guilty of either offense -without having been guilty of the
other." And it supported that statement -by reference
to the evidence. It is to be inferred from the opinion
that the allegations in the7 nuisance count were not, as
they are.here, limited to the liquor-bought by the government agent. No repugnancy as a matter of law was
found or dealt with in the opinion, and there is nothing
in recognition or support of' the principle here contended
for by the Government.
In the Marshallo case the indictment was in two counts
for violation of liquoi laws; the first was-for-nuisance and.

DUNN v. UNITED STATES.
390

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

the second for unlawful possession. The opinion does not
show details alleged. Marshallo was shown to be owner
and proprietor of the place. Government employees testified: The place was a soft drink parlor having.a lunch bar
and back room. Two witnesses went into the back room
and ordered three drinks. Marshallo was behind the bar,
bottles of liquor were passed from the cellar through.a
hole in the floor, three drinks were handed to the waiter,
payment was made and rung up on a cash register. Immediate examination of the cellar disclosed a large quantity of liquor kept there. The jury, found Marshallo
guilty of nuisance, not guilty of possession. He insisted
that the verdict of guilt of nuisance could not stand, because inc6nsistent with the acquittal of possession. The
court held there was ample evidence of iuisance and sustained the verdict, citing the Carrignancase. The opinlo'n
does not suggest that, outside the possession so specifically
found not proved, there was not ample evidence to establish defendant guilty of nuisance. The opinion shows no
such conflict or repugnancy that if one finding were true
the other necessarily must be false.
In the Steckler case-which the opinion of this court
cites--a druggist with a permit to possess liquor for sale
under prescribed regulations was indicted for violation of
liquor laws in four counts; the first charged nuisancethe maintenance of a place where liquor was kept for sale
in violation of the Act-the second unlawful possession,
the third an unlawful sale on April 8, the fourth another
unlawful sale on that day. The jury found him guilty of
unlawful possession and. acquitted him on the other
counts. The'court held Marshallo v. United Statds controlling and-it need not be considered whether'justifiably-dealt with the case as if there were an irreconcilable conflict. -Itsaid (p. 60): " No doubt it has generally
been assumed that, if a verdict was rationally inconsistent,
the conviction Ought not to stand,- and probably that was.

406

OCTOBER TERM,

BVTIXR, ,i., isenting.

8931.

284 .S.

the common law,' though it-is hard tofind a case squaely
so holding." It concluded that:the acquittal On the huisance and" sales • counts was an *Assumpti0f' power
which they . [the,,-jury] had no tight to' eke'cise. but to
which they 'were -'dibpsed th±ough.lenity," and so Sustained' th' conviction..
In The G zne&"case, the "indiptment-cha rged-violatibn of
the;' iquor-Iaw;'"the first count 'charged unlawful possession, thel'second inilawful po'session of prperty for use in
the manufacture of Itoxcating liquor, the'third manfaic'ture and'the: fourth "themainteiance of',a'nuisance. Goner was acquitted on' the first thiee -andconvicted 'of
nuIisance: 'The "court -held'the- findings of nd t 'guilty6on
the three-conimts did iot'.have the forceobf r-es-' djudicata
pr clidin obnv-ictio'n: 6nl theother couint. B itiwas not
held' or -luggested that, eXcluding the facts necessary,
forad not prove -inder the first thiee counts, thee was
fu6t evidei6e t6 warrant conviction of defendant for the
maintenance of the nuisane. The reasding of -the court
d&oes'not apply in this case. "One of Ithe ju lges'm-a dissenting opinion insisted that there was -a legal inicnsistfavor of Gozner•
ency between the-findings of not-guilt- in'
on-the-three 'counts and his convictioia on Ithe fourth a.nid
maintained that, 6.utgide the facts'necessarily negatived
by -the acqittals, there was n6" vidnce, to convict df
nuisance.
I &m of opinion that'the auhorities establish a's well-.
sett6ed: '(1)' that whe, 'upon
WaAiindictiment chartgg the
Isame'offense hi' differeat counts, the jury-acquits as to :foe
ani' convicts on the -&ther, defendanf 'is entitled to 'Anew
trial; aid' (2) that wheY differeh, iriies are charged in
separate counts and'he 'jury acquits as-to one.and convicts
on the other, thL conviction will beisustained :unless; excluding'the facts ' hich the jury in reaching its 'verdidt of
'

DUNN v. UNITED STATES.
390

'407

.BuTimsi J.,- dissenting.

acquittal necessarily found not proved, it must be held as
a matter of law that there is not sufficient evidence to
warrant the verdict of guilty ;, and, Wb'ere. the e'Adence
outside the facts so conclusively negatived by the acquittal
on one count is not sufficient to sustain guilt on the :other
count, defendadnt, is entitled to a new trial.
The rule first stated is applicable here..' Excluding the
possession, negatived by the finding under the sec6d'
count, there is Aothing of substance leff in the first count; for its specifications were ]imited to the keeping for sale
of the identical drinks allegedin the second count to have
been unlawfully :possessed. Moreover, even if -it be
thought that nuisance was sufficiently alieged-in the first
count, the unlawful pbsession 6f the six drinks was an
essential ingredient of the. offehse alleged.-, The evidence
having been found insufficient to establish ,such pogsession, it cannot be held adequate to. warrant conviction
under the first count. The finding of not guilty is a final
determination that possession, the gravamen of both
counts, was-not proved.
The law. does not, permit investigations into the deliberations'of 'juries for ascertainment as a matter of fact
upon what considerations verdicts are reached; the soundness of that rule has never been questioned. There are
stronger reasons against speculating whether, or a~suming
that, the jury through tenderness 'of disposition,-'mercy
or forbearance acquitted while knowing that its duty was
to convict the accused. -Conflict between the findings
mayno be explained. The inference that the jury, seeking rightly to discharge its duty, made a mistake, is to be
preferred over the suggestion that it found for defendant
upon an assumption of power it might not lawfully exort.
I am of opinion that the verdict does not .support the
judgment.

