OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
284U.S.

Syllabus.

decisions ot this court where, inadvertently, the word
"commerce" has been employed-- instead of the word
"transportation."
Plainly, the respondent in the present case does not
bring himself within the rule. At the time of receiving his
.injury he was engaged in work not incidental to transportation in interstate commerce, but purely incidental to the
furnishing -of means for heating the station and other
structures of the company. His duty ended when he had
produced a supply 'of steam for*that purpose. :He had
nothing to do with its distribution or specific use, Indeed,
what he produced-was niot used or intended to be used,
directly or indirectly, in the transportation of anything:
It is plain that his work was not in interstate transportation and was not so closely related to such transportation
as to cause it to be practically a part of it. Certainly that
work was no more closely related to transportation than
wa that of the employee in the Harrington case, who
placed coal in the'chutes for the use of locomotives engaged in interstate.transportation; or that of the-employee
in the Cousins case, who supplied coal for heating the shop
in which cars used in interstate traffic wiere repaired. The
work of the employees in those cases and that of the respondent here are, in fact, so nearly alike in their lack of
necessary relationship to interstate transportation, as to
be in principle the same.
Judgment reversed.
CHICAGO-1 ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY

CO.

ET AL.

V. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM TIE "DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR ,THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS,.

N6. 69.

Argued October 14, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.

Carriers operating most of the steam railroad mileage in the country
and owning nearly all of the common carrier car equipment, be.

CHICAGO, R.' I. & 1 RY.. CO. v. UL S."
so-

81

'Syllabus.

longed to the Ameiican Railway Association ai'd .subscribed to a
car service and per diem agreement providing for interchange of
freiglitcars under rules adopted.by the Association. By these
rules, subscribers were. entitled to a dhily rental of one d6llar per
car for .Vhdr genera service freight cars while on foreign lines;
daily reports were to-be made of all cars-interchanged between subscibers; find provision ,Was -made for a "reclaim allowance," or
refund, to the extent of the per, diem expense incurred in handling
cars in terminal switching service. 'Carriers operating less than
100 miles of railroad--j"short linei"-were eligible to 'associate
membership in. the Association, but without yoting rights. Generally, nonsubscribers to the agreement. were railroads7 operating
short lines and owning little, or no freight-car- equipment. No
reclaim allowance for switching service was permitted them by the
rules. In a general investigation of car hire settlements, in *hich
all the common carrier railroads were respondentsi the -Interstate
Commer~e Commission found that all, whether subscribers to the
agreement or not, were entitled to reasonable compensation for use
of their general service freight cars on foreign linps and that a
per diem of $1.00 per car was reasonable; and it laid down certain
rules to govern the ubjlect, somc of which; referred to below, were
assailed as operating to take property without compensation, as
not being justified by the, evidence, and as being discriminatory,
unequal, arbitrary and unreasona6e. It was'noV disputed that the
Commission had authority, under the Interstate Commerce Act'as
amended, to institute the investigation on its own motion, to prescribe reasonable rules relating to car service, and to prescribe reasonable compensation for the we of the cars of- one railroad by
another railroad, nor that, in the operation, of through routes, common carriers subject to the Act may be obliged -to permit their
cars to be carried beyond their 6wn lines. Held:
1. That .the Commission was authorized to require, not only that
the same daily rental be paid to nonsubscribers as is paid to subscribers to the above-mentioned agreement (which is 'not disputed), but also, as a corollary, that nonsubscribers, like subscribers,
shall be entitled to reclaim such portions of the car rental paid by
them as represent their own terminal switching charge ,the nonsubscribers being also required to- assume the like obligation in
respect of reclaim allowances when they in turn are owners of the
cars used. P. 92.
2. A rule laid down by~the Commission providing "That shortline railroads which are less than 100 miles in length, and which
return railroad-owned equipment to the road fxom which reseived,

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

-

.284U.S.

shall not be iequired to. report per diem accruals td numerous car
owners throughout the country, but shall be attached to their connecting carriers for purpose of car-hire settlement," was not invalid.
P. 93.
3. It is not arbitrary or unreasonable, in this connection, to
classify the short lines, owning an almost negligible proportion of
the country's car equipment, in a different category from the
trunk lines, which own substantially all of it, and which have
classified themselves apart from the short lines by permitting the
latter only an associate membership in the American Railway Asso"ciation, without voting rights. P. 93.
4. As, under the per diem agreement, subscribers must report to
each car owner as to cars used, and pay the per diem charges to
such owner, but nonsubscribers,-which are not bound by the agreement--report and make payment to their immediate connecting subscriber carriers, the-effect of the Commission's action is to extend
this privilege to the subscribing short lines as well, so that all the
short lines are put in a separate class and relieved from the burden
of keeping account of d multitude of per diem charges and of
reporting them separately to the various trunk lines. P. 94.
5. The power of the Commission to establish reasonable rules,
regulations, and practices with respect to car service, conferred by
§ 1 (14) of the Act, includes the power to make reasonable rules.
prescribing forms and methods of accounting, reporting and distriDuting payments in respect of such service. P. 94.
6. In requiring the trunk lines, which generally own the cars,
and which are best equipped to perform the clerical work and will
receive the most in the way of compensating benefits, to assume,
without substantial burden to themselves, this added service of
keeping and rendering accounts, thereby relieving the short lines
of an excessive and unnecessiry burden, the Commission did not
transcend the limits of reasonable administrative regulation. Id.
7. Public regulation of. the use of railroad property which is
so arbitrary and unreasonable as to become an infringement upon
the right of ownership, violates the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment. P. 96.
8. In the face of its express finding that all railroads are entitled
to receive, as reasonable compensation, a fixed sum per day for
the use of every car when on foreign lines, a rule ordered by the
Commission favoring short lines by giving them two days' free
time for interchanged loaded cars and relieving them from payment
on coal cars received for return loading with coal from mines

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

83

Argument for Appellants.

.customarily dependent upon connecting carriers for car supply,is arbitrary and unreasonable. Pp. 96-98.
9. The vice of this exemption is that it finds no justification in
the Commision's own findings. The Court is not. called upon to
consider the evidence upon which the Commission made its findings; and, in disapproving that part of the oider' it does not mean,
for the present, togo beyond the precise case presented, or to pass
upon the question of the authority of the Commission to make
proper apportionment of car-hiri costs, or, in special cases, to
make adjustments and afford proper measure of relief in the matter of payment of charges for the use of cars. Pp. 96, 100.
10. The general rule obliging a railroad to furnish equipment
for transporting freight tendered to it applies to short lines, and
to the case of coal loaded at coal mines as well, as to other traffic.
P. 98.
11. Section 1 (12), of the amended' Interstate Commerce Act
relates t6 car distribution to coal mines, and does not touch the
question of compensation for the use of cars by non-owning railroads.
That subject is covered by § 1 (14). P. 99.
'Reversed.

APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges, which dismissed a bill to set aside parts of a general order of the Interstate Commerce Commission regulating car:hire settlements.
Mr. Frank H. Towner, with whom Messrs. Alfred P.
Thorn, W. F,.Dickinson, R. N. Van Doren,.R. V. .Fetcher,
Herbert FPitzpatrick,George F. Brownell, C. C. Paulding,
Ben C. Dey, F. Barron Grier,Edward S. Jouett, W. R. C.
Cocke, and L: E. Jeffries were on the brief, for appellants.
It is doubtless true that in this case the Commission
had jurisdiction to institute the proceeding on its own
motion and to prescribe such reasonable and propbr rules
relating to car service as were justified by the evidence,
and also to prescribe the reasonable compensation to be
received by each railroad for the use of its cars by another
railroad. The Commission, however, does not have
unlimited power to regulate interstate commerce through
the making of orders relating to matters within its juris-

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellants,

284U.S.

diction. While this Court will not weigh the evidence
and substitute its judgment for that of the Commission;
orders entered by that body will be set aside if they are
unsupported by the evidence, were made without a hearamount to an abuse
ing, exceed constitutional limits, ori
of power.
,Paragraphs (2), (3), an4 (5) of the order operate to
take the property of appellants and other railroadIs similarly situated without coinpensation br without adequate
c6mpensation. Neither the reports of the Commission
nor its order indicate that any benefit or payment will
move to appellants and other railroads similarly situated,
to compensate them forthe losses imposed upon them by
those paragraphs- of the order. Without more, the
decisions of this Court necessaifily require that those paragraphs be set aside. The issues before the Commission
involved no question of rates, divisions, costs of transportation, car service, car distribution or the obligation of
railroads, to own freight cars. There is no public interest
to be considered, and no suchtinterest will be affected by
the decision herein. Thus, thdse decisions, of this Court
modifying property rights and requi.ring the performance
of some service without compensation have no application.
The evidence before the Commission d6es not justify
.he requirements of paragraphs (2), (3); and (5) of the
order. It 'onsisted of nothing mQrq than the requests of
individual witnesses that the -railroads, represented by
them be allowed the concessions now extended to them
under those'paragraphs. No reasons are assigned,-either
in the evidence or in the reports of the Commission, which
constitute a legal justification for the requirements of
those paragraphs. Moreover, it is obvious that the only
purpose of the Commission in making those paragraphs
of the order was to-effect a transfer of revenue as between
railroads.' This was not. an issue in the case, and the
record does.not contain the. evidence upon which an
order having this effeot must be predicated.'."

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U.S.
80

85

Argument: for Appellees.

The classifications of railroads made in the order are
not supported by any evidence in the record of the proceedings before the Commission, bear no -logical relation
to any lawful result sought to be accomplished, are not
uniform in their application, create discriminations and
inequalities between railroads, are arbitrary and unreasonable, and operate to confiscate the property of appellants in violation of their constitutional rights. They
are not justified by those decisions of this Court sustaining statutory classifications of railroads as legitimate
exercises of a State's power to regulate in the public.
.interest.
-

Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Solicitor.General.Thacherand Messrs. Charles H. Weston,
Hammond E. Chaffetz, Daniel W. Knowlton, and H..L.
.Underwood-wereon the brief, for the United States et al.,

:appellees.
Paragraph 14 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act
authorizes the Commission to establish reasonable carhire regulations and to fix proper car-hire compensation.
Paragraph 1 of the Commission's order directs the payment of the same car rental.to nonsubscribers as to subscribers, and paragrapti.2 requires that similar switching
reclaim allowances shall be made to nonsubscriberi as to
subscribers. The effect of these two paragralhs is to
remove the discrimination existing under the per diem
rules whereby. cars of nonsubscribers were rented on -a
mileage basis and cars of subscribers on,a per diem basis,
and whereby switching ,eclaims allowed to subscribers
removing this diswere forbidden to nonsubscribers. "In,
crimination the Commission. was' not required to give
appellants an election *between abandoning switching
reclaims and extending them to all, since the authority of
the Commission is not merely to remove discrimination,
but affrmatively to establish, reasonable rules.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellees.

284U.S.

The language and purpose of the Commission's order
clearly indicate that n-onsubscribers are required to allow
switching reclaims to subscribers. The manifest object
of the order in this respect is to establish uniformity and
equality -of treatment as between subscribers and nonsubscribers.
Paragraph 3 of the order provides that short lines less
than 100 miles in length which return freight equipment
to the road from which received shall be attached to their
*connecting carriers -for the purpose of car-hire settlement.
Paragraph 3 thus requires subscribers to treat these short
lines just as nonsubscribers are required to be dealt with
under Rule 6 (b) of the pei diem code. The effect of this
paragraph of the order Is to relieve these short lines of
the burden of keeping small accounts with the countless
car owners of the country. No substantial burden, if any,
is imposed on any other class of railroad; and the saving
in accounting expense to the railroad system as a whole
may amount to $500,000 a month. Paragraph 3 would
seem therefore to be reasonable.
Paragraph 5 of the Commission's order requires that
short lines referred to in paragraph 3 (other than switching lines) be granted two days' free time on -all loaded
freight cars interchanged with them, and -t~tally exempts
them from the payment of car hire on cars received for
return loading with coal from coal' mines which are customarily dependent upon the'connecting trunk lines for
car supply. Paragraphs 5 and 3 taken together allocate
to the trunk line connections part of the cost to the short
lines of the free time granted to shippers and consignees
under the National Demurrage Rules. Paragraph 14 of
§ 1 of the Act does not indicate the considerations which'
are to govern the distribution of car-hire costs, thus leaving it to the Commission upon investigation to determine
the question. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co. v. United States,
283 U. S. 35, 42; Texas & Pac.Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F.

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U, S.
80

Opinion of the Court.

Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 273. The Commission found that
short lines were essentially feeders to their trunk line
connections. They perform, principally, only terminal
services and receive a.small proportion of the line haul,
while cars remain upon their tracks a disproportionate
length of time. The Commission can not be said to have
acted arbitrarily in giving consideration to this relationship and to the nature of the services performed by each
of the parties thereto, and in deciding that by virtue of
these facts the trunk lines should, to some extent, relieve
their feeders of the cost of the free-time allowances made
to shippers and consignees under the Demurrage Rules.
Further support for the Commission's determination that
free-time allowances to short lines are both proper and
necessary'is found in the history of the operation of the
per diem rules.
Mr. Robert E. Quirk for the South Manchester R. Co.,
appellee.
AM. JusTCEB SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was.brought in the federal district court for
the northern district of Illinois to set aside parts of an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission made in a
proceeding instituted by that body on its own motion.
The purpose of the proceeding was to investigate "the
rules for car-hire settlement between common, carriers
by railroad in the United States for the use and detention
of freight cars while on the lines of carriers other than
their owners, with a view to'making such order or orders
in the premises as may be warranted by the record." All
common carriers by railroad in the United States were
made parties respondent. The Commission reopened and
consolidated with the proceeding a number of cases theretofore pending before it, some of which had already been

88

"OCTOBER TERM,' 1931;,
Opinion of the:Corti.

..
284U.S.

heard and decided. Elaborate hearings were had, at
which, generlly, the trunk -line railroads were represented by te Americn Railway Association, 'and the short
lines, -by the American Short Line Railroad Association.
A large amount of testimony 'as submitted, together with.
several hundred exhibits.'The Commission filed two6 re-

ports. The first will be found in 160 L. C. C. 369-448,
and the second or supplemental report. in 1651.C. C. 495.
The original report dscssed-the-caseo and conelidd
with nine specific findings, the fimt of which follows:
.
cc'. Common-carrier railroads,: whether subscribers to,
the per Iiem'agreement of the American Railway Association or nonsubscribers, are entitled to receive reasonable
compensation in the form of 6.'daily rental for the ise
of: their,general-service freight cars when on foreig'n lines,
and that the present per diem charge of $1 per,car-day
reasonably compensates car owners for average carownership and maintenance costs, The reasonableness_ of this
per diem iate is not questioned."
No order was then made, but thearrieis affected were
expected to conform to the findings and were- left to
modify their rules and practices accordingly. The carriers having -failed and refused t6 do so, the Commission
issued its supplemental report and.entered an order. giving effect t6'its findings, by which order -the resp6ndent's
in the proceedings before the Commission Were required,
on or before' October 1, 1930, t' cease and desist,. and
thereafter to abstain,, from applying rules for "car-hire
settlements in conflict with those prescribed by the Com-;
mission's order, and were required to establish; on or before that date, and thereafter to maintain and observe,
rules with respect to- car-hire settlements which shall',
provide:
"(1) That the same daily car rental shall be paid to
common-carrier nonsubscribers as respondents contemporaneously pay-to subscribers to the per diem rules agree-

CHICAGO, R. 1. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

Opinion of the Court.

ment of the American Railway Association, for the use
freight cars.
of-gene'al-service
-"-(2) That similar
reclaim-allowances shall be made
to nonsubscribers aso-subscribers of the per diem rules
agreement, in connection with cars handled in terminal
switching service, as the, latter term is defined by the
switching reclaim rules of the American Railway Associa,
tion.
" (3) That shor-li&ne railroads which are less than 100
miles in length, and which return failroad-owned equipment to the road- from which received,, shall not be required to report per diem accruals to numerous car owners throughout the country, but shall be attached tb their
connecting carriers for purpose of car-hire settlement.
"(4) That common-carrier railroads which interchange freight -cars with more than one subscriber railroad, and which deliver to one or more subscribing carners, freight cars -which are received from another.such
carrier, and railroads 100 miles or more in length, regardless of the number of railroads with which they connect,
shall make, car-hire settlements' direct with car owners
in accordance with the per diem rules.
"(5) That common-carrier railroads outside switdhing
districts, other than those referred to in paragraph 4
hereof, shall pay per diem to connecting carriers on railroad-owned freighf cars after deducting an average of
two days free time per loaded freight car interchanged,
settlements to be made at the end of each calendar month,
except that no car hire need be paid on cars received for
return loading with coal from coal mines which are customarily 'dependent upon connecting carriers for car
supply."
Thereupon, -appellants, on. beh-alf of themselves and
other carriers similarly situated, brought this suit to set
aside paragraphs (2), (3) and (5) of the order. No complaint was made in respect of paragraphs (1) and (4)_

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

The case was heard by a court of three judges, constituted
as required by the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October
22, 1913, 38 Stat. 220, U. S. C., Title 28, § 47. That .court,
without an opinion, made findings and conclusions sustaining the order of the Commission in all respects, and
entered a decree of dismissal without prejudice to further
applic'ations to the Commission for modification of the
order, if, subsequently, injury or unfair results follow
from the application of the order.
In the early9 history of railroad operation, through
freight was transferfed from the cars of one road to those
of the connecting line at 'junction points. This resulted
in-waste of time and money, and the railroads themselves'
soon adopted the practice of permitting the loaded cars
to pass from their own tracks to those of the connecting
roads, making a charge therefor. See In the Matter ofCar Shortage, 12 I. C. C. 561, 573. For many years
charges for interchanged cars were on a mileage basis,
but this was found impracticable, and a per diem rate
generally was 'substituted. Finally, an agreement was
entered into, known as the "Car Service and Per Diem
Agreement," which provided for an interchange of cars
subject to a code of rules adopted by the American Railway Association, the general -principle of which was that
payment should be made to the car-owning railroad -for
each day the car was off itq lines. The railroads subscribing-to this agreement are known as "subscribers,"
and other roads, as "nonsubscribers." The subscribers,
all members of the American Railway.Association, comprise nearly 78 per cent. of the steam railroads in the
United States; and these operate nearly 98 per cent. of.
the entire railroad mileage, and own 99.81 per cent. of
all- the railroad common carrier car equipment of the
country. Carriers operating less than 100 miles of railroad are eligible for associate membership but without
voting rights. At the time this case was heard by the

CHICAGO, R.- I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

91

Opinion of the Court.

Comrmission, the per diem rate was fixed at $1.00 per car.
The rules required daily interchange reports in respect
of all cars interchanged between subscribers. 'Generally,
nonsubscribers were railroads operating, short lines and
owning little or, in some cases, no freight car equipment.
Provision' was made, in the rules for a "reclaim allowaiice,", that is to say, a refund, to railroads which'had
paid car rental, to the extent of the per diem expense
incurred in handling cars in terminal switching service.
This rule was confined to subscribers, aind no reclaim
allowance was permitted to. nonsubscribers for such
service.
That the order of the Commission falls within the scope
of its statutory powers is clear. Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended by Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, § 402,
41 Stat. 456, 476; U. S. C., Title 49, § 1 (10)-(14). Subdi,ioi (14)-provides:
"The Commission may, after hearing, on a complaint
or upon its own initiative without complaint, establish
reasonable rules, regulations, and practices with respect to
car service by carriers by railroad subject to this Act, including, the compensation to be paid for the"use of any
locomotive, car, or other vehicle not owned by the carrier
using it, and the penalties or other sanctions for nonobservance of such rules, regulations or practices."
The authority of the Commission to institute the proceeding on its own motion, and to prescribe reasonable
rules relatinmg to the subject of car service, and to prescribe
reasonable compensation for the use of the cars of on railroad by another railroad, is conceded. Nor is it disputed
that under the law, in the operation of through -tbutes,
common carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce Act
may be obliged to permit their car equipment to be carried
beyond their own lines. See Missouri & Illinois Coal Co.
v. Illinois Central R. Co., 22 1. C. C. 39. Appellants assail
paragraphs (2), (3), and (5) of the order on the grounds

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinionof. the Court.

284U.S.

that their provisions operate to take property without
compensation, are not justified by the evidence, and are
discriminatory., unequal, arbitrary, -and unreasonable.
First-Paragraph(1). Paragraph (1) of ,the ' ordr,
which, is not challenged, requites the same daily car rental
'to be paid to nonsubscribers as is paid to subscribers to the
per diem rules agreement.' Of this, paragraph (2) is the
logical corollary. If nonsubscribers are entitled to be put
on term of equality with subscribers in the matter of liability for'car rental payments, it is hard to see why they
should not also be tjitled to the same equality in respect
of refunds of such portions -of the payments as represent
switching charges, provided, of- co~drse, that the nonsfibscribers'are also required to assume like obligation in respect of reclaim allowances when they in turn are owners
.'of the used cars. The two-paragraphs, taken together and
fairly interpreted, 'we think justify the conclusion ,that
tle obligations imposed and the benefits -to be received
are intended to be reciprocal, and put subscribers and nonsubscribers, in respect thereof, upon terms of equalitr.
That this is the view of the Government and of the Commission appears from the' language of their brief, as
'follows:
'The Commission's obvious purpose was to place nonsubscribers on an equil footing with subscribers. The
order'is directed against all, the common-carrier railroads
in the United States, including both subscribers and nonsubscribers. The requiremeit that ' similar reclaim allowances shall be made to nonsubscribers as-to subscribers'
can 'only mean that nonsubscribers and subscribers are
to bdtreated alike...... The order in any event does not
preveit appellants and the other subscribers from modifying -the per diem rules so as to -require.nonsubscribers. to
pay sdch allowances to the subscribers. Since appellants
can themselves cure the defect which they allege in the

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
8y

'Opinion of the Court.

.Comnfissioi's order, they are not in.a position'to challenge
the order on this ground."
This virtually amounts to a construction by the Com-

mission of its own order in accordance with the view we
ha& expressed. The suggestion. that in-so far as the short'
line' railroads can bring themselves within paragraph '(5)
of. thd order, this equality .of. reatiieint will fail, will bie
found to .disappear when .we come to deal -with that
paragraph.
Second-Paragraph.(3)., This parggraph relieves the
short line railroads of the class defined, i. e:, those teturning cars of other carriers to the road from which received,
from the burdenof reporting per diem accruals to numerous car owners, and -in effect requires such reports to be
made only to their irgnediate connecting carriers. The
objection urged to the paragraph is that it requires the
c nnecting carrier to expend its money in keeping accounts
-and making reports, and payments in respect of operating
expenes of the'sh6rt line carrier, and. thus amounts to
confiscation 'in -theguise of regulation.
The classification which results in exempting railroads
less than 100 miles in length fronf the necessity of making
reports of per diem accruals separately to each of the
numerous car owners throughout te .cduntry is attacked
as arbitrary and unreasonable. W6 think it is neither.
-It is of a kind frequently made and frequently upheld
by this court. St. Louis & I" M. By. Co,, v. Arkaftas,
240 U. S.518, 520; Wilson v. -New, 243 U. .332, 354,'and
authorities cited. Moreover, the car e4uipment of the
country 'is substantially in thehands, of the trunk lines,
that owned by the shott lines being almost a negligible
.propoition of the whole. And this fact aords some additioial grouild forthe classification. Indeed, the classificationi was recognized as. legitimate by appellants themselves, when they subscribed fo the provision that 'such
short lines -hould be perr~itted tq becoie..sQ.o t.e erm-.

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

bers only of the American Railway Association, but without voting rights.
Under the per diem agreement subscribers must report
to each car owner as to cars used, and pay the per diem
charges to such owner; but in the case of nonsubscribers-who are not bound by the rules--the reports and payments
are made to the immediate connecting subscriber carrier.
The effect of paragraph (3) is to extend this privilege to
the subscribing short line carriers as well. In other words,
all short line railroads, whether subscribers or not, are put
in a separate class and relieved from the burden of keeping account of a multitude of seliarate per diem charges,
and reporting them separately to the various trunk lines.
Each of the trunk lines already maintains a large accounting force, and is obliged to keep account of cars received from other lines, including those turned over to,
and returned by, its connecting short lines. It fairly may
be said that it will entail relatively little additional service to keep the accounts and make the reports, as required
by paragraph (3). Each of these trunk lines in turn
will be relieved from much of the burden, and expense of
dealing directly with non-connecting short lines; and it is
not improbable that the benefits received will counterbalance the burdens, or at least, go very far in that direction. On the whole, we are unable to conclude that this
phrt of the order imposes upon the connecting lines anything of substance that as a matter Df law constitutes a
part of the work of operating the short lines, or that the
required change adds anything to the operating expenses
of such connecting carriers.. On the other hand, as the
record clearly shows, the keeping of these additional accounts, and the making of the vast number of reports to
the numerous car owners throughout the country which
would be required in the absence of paragraph (3), would
put upon these short lines an excessive and disproportionate burden. It was estimated by one witness, and 'not

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

Opinion of the Court.

contradicted, that if the short lines were required to keep
their accounts as they are kept by the trunk lines, it-would
impose an unnecessary burden upon the traffic of the
country of approximately $500,000 per month.
Thb power to "establish reasonable rules, regulations,
and practices with respect to car service by carriers by
railroad," conferred by subdivision (14) of section 1,
hereinbefore quoted, undoubtedly includes the power to
make reasonable rules prescribing forms and methods of
accounting, reporting and distributing payments.in respect of such service. The Commission is here dealing
with the railroad system of the country as a whole. A
multitude of interrelated interests is concerned. The
trunk lines, as owners, furnish in the main all the car
equipment used by the short lines. These are legitimate
facts to be considered by.the Commission in exercising its
authority in'respect of accounts; and these facts, and other
facts and circumstances, -justly may require that more of
the clerical work shalLbe done by one of these classes thar
by the other.
The Commission is-a body of trained and experienced
experts, and in respect of such*matters a reasonable degr.ee of latitude must be allowed for the- exercise of its
judgment. The mere fact 'that, in application, mathematical accuracy in the adjustment of the burden may
not be attained is not enough to put upon the Commission's order the stamp of invalidity. Primarily, the question is an administrative one, and unless the limits of reasonable regulation be transcended, the courts may not
interfere, The Commission concluded that the circumstances afforded warrant for requiring that class of railroads which generally owned the cars, which was best
equipped to perfQrm the clerical work, and which would
receive the most in the way of compensating and offsetting
benefits, to perform a larger proportion of the service of
keeping and rendering the accounts. In doing so, we are

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

of opinion that it did not transcend the limits of reasonable regulation, and that the claim of confiscation is not
sustained. Third-Paragraph(5). This paragraph stands upon a
different footing from those just considered. We do not
find it necessary to review the various arguments made
for and against the power of the Commission to make
this part of the order. Section 1 (14), suprd, authorizes
the Commission to fix the compensation to be paid for*
the use of cars, etc., not owned by the carrier using them.
This the Commission undertook to do, and expressly
found that, whether subscribers or not, all common carrier railroads were "entitled to receive reasonable compensation in the form of a daily rental for the use of their
general-service freight cars when on foreign lines, and
that the present per diem charge-of $1 per car-day" was
such reasonable compensation. In so doing it followed
the direction of the statute. It then proceeded, however,
by an order to grant to the short line railroads two days
free time for interchanged loaded cars, and denied compensation altogether in the case of cars received for return
loading with coal from coal mines customarily dependent
upon connecting carriers for car.supply.
That exceptions of this character could-be made ifapplied to all railroads, may be conceded, but that is not
what was done. Here the Commission, hpving fbund
that all railroadswere entitled to receive -a definitely fixed
sum per day for every car used by a foreign line,, entered
an order relieving some of the railroads, in whole or in
part, from, such payments. Plainly.this order is in flat
opposition to the finding and cannot be permitted• to
stand.
Confiscation *may result from a taking of the use.
of property without compensation quite as well as from
the taking of the title. Chicago, .M. & St. P. Ry. Co, v.
Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 458; Reagan y. Fqr~ners' L oan

CHICAGO, R. I: & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.

97

Opinion- of the Court.

80

& Trust'Co., 154 U. S. 362, 410, 412;'Chiagb,M. & St. P.
R. Co. v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491, 498-499. The-use of
railroad property is subject to-public regulation, but a
regulation which is so. arbitrary and unreasonable as to
become an infringement upon the right of ownership constitutes a-violation of the due process of law clause of the
Fifth Amendment. Atlantic Coast Line v. No. Carblina
Corporation Comm., 206 U. S. 1, 20. And 'certainly a
regulation permitting the free use of property'in the face
of an express finding that the owner is entitled tp compensation for-such use cannot be regarded otherwise than
as arbitrary and unreasonable.
If, as claimed, the earnings of the short lines are insufficient t6 enable them to make full payment of car hire
costs, the Commission may be able to afford a remedy
by increasing the rates, or by a readjustment of the division of joint rates. New England Divzsions Case, 261 U.
S. 184; Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry v. United States, 282
U. S. 74. It cannot be done by confiscating for their
benefit the use of cars of other railroads. Short lines, as
well as trunk lines, participating in joint -rates,must furnish their share of the equipment. If they do not own
cars, they must rent them.' The Commission itself has
pointed out very clearly the basis for this requirement.
Virginia Blue Ridge Ry. v. Southern Ry Co., 96 I. C. C.
591, 593:
"The per diem that complainant pays for car hire is
merely equivalent to interest, depreciation, insurance,
taxes, and other car-ownership costs which it would have
to bear if it owned the cars used in interline traffic. The
car owner incurs these costs in the first instance, and is
reimbursed by complainant [a short line] through the
per diem. or rental charges, thereby relieving the- latter
of the necessity of -investing 'in equipment for this
service."
The case does not present a question of apportionment
hire costs. The Commission undertook to deter.
of car8U912*--32L-T

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Qpinion of the Court.

284U.S.

mine, ,and ,did determine, what was a reasonable compen-

satioh for the use of cars, and definitely fixed that compensation on a per diem basis. It then, by its order,
denied such reasonable compensation in certain cases.
This is in no proper sense an apportionment of expense,
but a'plain givingof the free use of property. for which,
the Cohission had concluded, the owner should be paid.
We must de al with cases as they are
made, not as they
might' ha, e been made. , To 'do otherwise, if we had the
power, w
'ould,
e only to invite confusion. What the
Comnssiin ,would do in a proper case of apportionment,
involving ma ny elements for consideration not now before
us, we * are not
advised;
and it has made no findings suit'1
L
able to a determination of that matter.
We find no reason for applying a different rule in respect
of the clause of paragraph (5) which altogether relieves
the short -lines from the payment of car hire on coal cars
received for return -loading. with coal from mines customarily dependent upon connecting carriers for car supply.: :-This is a blanket order in opposition to the express
fnding of the .Commission quite as much as 'that part
of the paragraph which grants to the short lines two days
free ise of cars. The general rule in respect of the obligation- of a railroad, whether a short line or a trunk line,
to: furnish equipment for the 'transportation of freight
tenderd to it, -applies to the case of coal loaded at coal
mines as well as to other traffic. Demurrage on Coal and
Coke, 102 1 C.. 0. 554, 557, 458, citing Brick from Michigan'City, Ind., 42 I. C. C. 509, 511, where the general
rule is stated.
Iii the firsi named case the Tennessee Railroad, a short
'line, undertook, by a proposed tariff, to make a demurrage
charge against, cars held at coal.mines, as an offset to per
diem. charges paid by it to the Southern Railway. The
Comnission, however, regarding the tariff as an attempt

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

Opinion of the Court.

to transfer the railroad's, car-hire expense to the coal operators, required the tariff to be canceled, saying:
"Although respondent states that the proposed schedule
was published for the sole purpose of recovering its carhire cost on cars under load, it would be applicable to all
cars. In other words, it would have the effect of largely
offsetting respondent's cost of car hire'by assessing shippers an amount equal thereto bey6nd a certaintime. Respondent is under obligation to furnish the -equiprnent
necessary for the transportation of traffic tendered to it,
and if it does not possess such eqipment the charges paid
for the revenue [evidently meaning rental] thereof can'

not be considered as an item of expense which is not included in the rate."
There is nothing in § 1 (12) of the Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended, which affords a basis for this part of
paragraph (5), although the terms of the order might suggest that this subdivision was relied upon. Section 1 (12)
has relation only to the subject of-car distribution, that is,
to a "just and reasonable distribution of cars" by each
railroad "for transportation of coal among the coal mines
served by it, whether located upon its line or lines or customarily dependent upon it for car supply." See Assigned
Car Cases, 274 U. S.564, 577. The object of this provision was to insure a proportional distribution of all avail-

able coal cars so as to afford a fair and equal opportunity
to each mine to enjoy their use on the basis of its rating.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Lambert Run Coal Co., 267 Fed.
776, 779.* It has nothing to do with the question of com.pensation for the use of cars by non-owning railroads.
That subject, as already appears, is covered by § 1 (14).
* This case came to this court by appeal from the Circuit Court
of Appeals and was remanded with a direction to dismiss for want-of

jurisdiction and without prejudice. Lambert Co. v. Baltimore &
0. R. Co., 258 U. S. 377.

100

-OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
STON,

J., dissenting.

284U.S.

The part. of the order [paragraph (5)] now, under consideration.creates an exemption in favor of all short lines
and againsslal connecting carriers, irrespective of varying'
circumatan.es, in-Ije, face of a general finding that all
common crrier railroads atre entitled to compensation in
the form Of daily rental -f6r the use ofP cars when on for-'
eig'm lines. /The language of the finding couldnot be'more
comprehensive. If followed,, it necessarily compels payhient of rental by the lines exempted as well as all other,
lines. It affords no justification for any exemption' We'
are.-not palled upon 'tQ consider the evidence, since the.
Com'iission upon the evidence, has made. its findings.
The vice, of the situation is that -the order of the Commission, that is to say, its judgment, does not conform
to. its conclusions npon the facts. In disapproving this
jragraph, we do iot mean, for,.the.present, to go beyond.
the precise case presented, or to pass upon the- question
of the authority of the Commission to make fair apportionment of car-hire costs, or,: in special cases, to make
adjustments" and afford a.proper measure of relief in'tlie
matter'bf parment of charges for the use of cars. 'Compare Ohio Farm Bureau Federgtion v. Ahnapee & W. Ry.
Co., 89 I. C. C. 489, 499; Kanawha Black Band Coal Co.
v. Chesapeale & 0. Ry. Co., 1421. C. C. 433, 442.
'It follows that the court below should have set aside
paragraph (5) of the order.
Decree reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

STOiiE, dissenting.

'Acting.inder authority conferred by the Esch Car Service Act [§ 1 (14) of the Interstate Commerce- Act, as.
amended by Transportation Act, 1920, February 28, 1920,
c. 91, § 402, 41 Stat. 456, 476], the Interstate Commerce
Cofnmission, after a nation-wide investigation, has prescribed certain rules which affect 'eompensation for, the

C
80

CA

,R.YCO.

V. . S.

101

S6zma, J., dissenting.

use and detention of.-freight cars on lines of common carriers other than their owners. The principl subject' of.
controversy here is the validity of so much of the Corn-'
mission's order as relates to the apportibnm~nt of car-hire
charges upon cars interchanged-btween-a designated
class of short lin4 carriers and their trunk line connections.
This part of the order, as well as that which the Court has
sustained, should, I think, be held valid.
At the outset it should be pointed out that the part of
the order held voiddoes not defly to car owners the right
to compensation for the first two days that a caris on-thq
rails of a short line of the designated class. Regardless of
the ownership of 'the car the order detferi"jes only which
of the connecting. carriers shall bear the burden bf that
6ompensation. The connecting trunk line may or may not
own the car, but in either case the purpose and effect of
-the order is to determine the fair s11ar6 .of the per diem
car-hire expense to be borne,respectively, by a trunk line
and its connecting short line of the particular class, par
ticipating in a through route.
An addquate appriciation of the natuire of the problem
with which the Commission was required to deal -by § 1
(14) involves an examination of the history and present
.day practices of car interchange between connecting carriers in the United States., In their early history the
railro ds in this country did not-permit freight cars which
they owned to leave their rails, and freight. to b6 transported over more than one lie was unloaded and reloaded
"atjunction points.' With the devel pment of more effcient transportation methods after the Civil War, this uneconomical and time-wasting. practice was gradually,
abandoned. In 1886, the adoption by the southern rail'For discussions of early practices of car supply, see Matter of
'Car Shortage and Other Insufficient Transportation Facilities, 12
I. C. C. 561, 573; Matter of Private Cars,*50 I. C. C. 652, 656, 657;
Henry S. Haines, Efficieni Railroad Operation.(1919) 335.

OCTOBER TERM, 193L
SToNx,

J., dissenting.

284U.S.

roads of standard, gauge track removed the last physical
barrier to free interchange of equipment throughout the
nation; and in 1911 a rule which the railroads had long
before come to recognize as a necessity of commerce was
declared to be an obligation of law, when the Interstate
Commerce Commission, under the amended Interstate
Commerce Act, decided that carriers could not refuse to
permit their freight cars to pass onto rails of 'connecting
carriers. Missouri & Illinois Coal Co. v. Illinois Central
R. Co., 22 I. C.'C. 39; see St. Louis Southwestern Ry Co.
v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 136, 145, 146, 148. The obligation
has never since been doubted, and the power to regulate
it is exclusively vested in the Commission. Assigned Car
Cases, 274 U. S. 564; United States v. New River Co.,
265 U. S. 533.
This freedom of car movement has been attained without impairment of the basic obligation of rail carriers to
furnish equipment for carriage, either by; owning it or
hiring it, and, if by hiring it, to pay proper compensation.2
Until comparatively recent years, the standard of compensation has been fixed by the railroads themselves, by cus-"
tom oragreement. Before 1902 the prevailing and customary basis was mileage; but this proved unsatisfactory.
The then-existing mileage rates are said to have been inadequately compensatory; the car owner had no means of
verifying mileage on foreign lines; and no incentive was
furnished for the prompt handling of cars.' The. first
the obligation of a common carrier (as respects other railroads) to furnish its own equipment or pay reasonable compensation
for foreign cars, see Louis2iille & Nashville R. Co. v. Central Stock
2On

Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132, and also Virginia Blue Ridge Ry. v. SouthernRy. Co., 96 1.C.0. 591, 593; Western Pine Lumber Co. v. Director General, 96 I. C. C. 625, 628. Morehead & North Fork R. Co.
•v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 100 I. C. C. 45, 48; Jefferson &
Northwestern Ry. -Co. v. Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co., 102 I. C. C.

72, 75.

CHICAGO, R. I.
SO

& P.'RY. CO. v. V. S.

103

SToNE, J., dissenting.

difficulty might, with some exceptions, have been removed
by increasing the rates, but the second and third were
inherent in the system, and the last involved, not the
adequacy of the cohmpensation" for the use of cars, -but
the failure of the rate'to exercise any contrqljfig influence
on car movements.
To meet these objections, the American Rgilway Association, in 1902, after many years of discussion and investigation, formul'ted a radically different method of
car-hire settlement Ia method which, as steadily elaborated and modified in the light of experience, has remained
in force ever since. The basis of this plan is the requirement that every carrier using a car belonging to another
shall pay to the owner a flat sum (fixed at one dollar
since 1920) per diem, the liability for the following
twenty-four hours to attach to -the carrier holding the car
at nidnight.3 Other provisions pertinent to this contz'oversy are the agreement exacted of each memhber road
to report .daily to car owners all cars currently interchanged, and the exemption granted to switching railroads, under certain circumstances, from the otherwise
unvarying liability 'of the carrier in possession of a foreign Icar to pay per diem charges on it.' Under this exemption, denominated " switching reclaim," a carrier using
cars in so-called "terminal switching seryice," pays per
diem costs in due course -on each car, bfft is; entitled to
recover from the connecting line haul carrier an amount
per car based on the average detention period of cars in.
such service.
-The American Railway Association -is, and has been
since its inception, a purely voluntary organization. No
carrier is bound to. subscribe to its Code of Per Diem
'Per Diem Rules, 1, 2, 9a.

'Per Diem Rules, 9a.
Per Diem Rules, 5.

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1931;
STONE,

J., dissenting:

284U.S.

Rules; and no carrier operating less than. one hundred
miles of road is eligible to voting membership, although
it may become an associate member, subject' to the re'ciprocal rights and obligations of the Code, which the
Association, by its voting members, prescribes. Subscription to the Per Diem Code entails substantial burdens, some of them peculiarly onerous for short lines.6
Of the 1731 steam railroads in the United States, 384 do
not subscribe to the agreement, and of these nearly all are
short-line, Class III roads, that is, roadshaving annual
operating revenues of less than $100,000. j-any of them
are less thim ten miles in length. Several important rules
of the-Asgociation deal with relations between subscribers
and. this group of non-assenting lines. It is the frankly
admitted'aiin of the Association to' coerce the non-assenting Iines into joining it, by- subjecting them to treatment
sublstaitially lest favorable than that accorded to subscribers. The cars of'nonsubscribers are not-paid for on a
per diem, but on a mileage basis, concededly.less remunerative. They are denied the privilege, "grante to Association members, of the switching reclaim. In addition' since
1922, trunk line members have been expressly prohibited
from making car-hire: arrangements with their nonsubscribing connections on any other than a strict per diem
basis-arrangements to Whichthe short'lines assert their
special situation entitles them, and which Inany trunk line
members of the Association have granted in spite of the
Code; others have 'expressed their willingness to grant it,
were it not for the prohibition of the Code. This coercive
use of the regulations, together with the asserted unfairAnnual dues of associate members are $40. They are required, to
abide by all the rules of the Association, which include the maintenance of daily accounting reports with car owners throughout the.
country. They-must become members of the Bureau for the Safe
'Transportation of Explosives, and parties to the Interchange Agreem ent, and must put in force the National Car Demurrage Rules.

CHICAGO, R.: I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

%orONE,

105

J., dissenting.

ness of the per diem basis generally to short lines, forms
the background of the Commission's order now under review.
By the Esch Car Service Act, the Interstate-Commerce
Commission was given sweeping control over rules of car.
interchange and car-hire settlement, and the" authorityconferred by it in respect to compensation for use of cars
has been exercised by the Commission in numerous instances upon complaint by iidividual carriers.8 Withsuch complaints pending before it, together with a petition
by the American Short Line Railroad Association, the
Commission, on January 4, 1926, instituted a general investigation upon its own motion, -reopening many of the
decided cases and consolidating pending ones with the
general inquiry. An extended record was made up, embracing.sorue 5000 pages of testimony and more than 500
exhibits. The order ultimately issued by the Commission,
five numbered paragraphs, was addressed to
enbod'ed in"
all common carriers by railroad in th* United States.
Rules for Car-Hire Settlement, 160I. .C. C. 369, 165 I.0
C. 495.
In this order the Commission made no effort tO replace
in their entirety the per diem rules of the American Railway Association. Instead it removed the discrimination
complained of by bringing all common, carriers by railroad, subscribers or nonsubscribers, within those rules, as
modified, to meet certain of the objections growing out
of the special circumstances of the short lines. ParaT

Section 1 (14) of this Act. provides: "The Commission may, after
hearing, on a complaint or upon its own initiative without complaint,
establish reasonable rules, .,g!ations, and practices, with respect to
car service by carri. rs by railroad subject to this Act, including the
con iensation to be paid for the use of any locomotive, car, or other
vehicle not owned by the carrier using it, and the penalties or other
for nonobservance of such rules, regulations or practices.'
sanctions
8
Cases cited in notes 15 and 16, infra.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
SToim, J., dissenting.

284U.S.

graph (1) of the order entitles nonsubscribers to per diem
payment for the use of their cars upon the same terms as
the Association prescribes for cars of its members. Paragraph (4) requires all carriers, whether members of the
Association or not, whose lines are more than 100 miles
long or who receive cars from one subscriber and deliver
them to another, to make car-hire settlements direct with
car owners in accordance with the per diem rules. These
provisions are not attacked by any of the appellant railroads. Paragraph (2) entitles nonsubscribers to switching reclaim, on account of cars handled in terminal
switching service, upon the same terms as hitherto received by subscribers. The practical effect of this paragraph is to compel allowance of the switching reclaim to
nonsubscribing short lines, since the existing practice of
allowing the reclaim to subscribers is gener'ally approved
and regarded as necessary, as the revenue from switching
services is insufficient to meet the car-hire cost of the carriers performingthem. Paragraph (3) attaches short line
railroads which return cars to the road from which received, to their connecting carriers for purposes of car-hire
accounting and settlement. Paragraph (5) 'requires the
same class of short line roads to pay per diem to their connecting carriers, but with the deduction of two days' free
time per loaded freight car, and with the proviso that in
the case of short line roads, "no car-hire need be paid on
cars received for return loading with coal from coal mines
which are customarily dependent upon connecting carriers
foi car supply."
This Court now holds that paragraphs (2) and (3) are
valid, but, without considering the evidence, that paragraph (5) is void, being on its face so arbitrary and unreasonable as to deprive the appellants of property-without due process of law. In support of this conclusion, it
is said that, the Commission having found generally "that
the present per diem gharge of $1 per car-day reasonably

CHICAGO, A. i. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S. 80

107

SToNE, J., dissenting.

compensates car owners for average car ownership and
maintenance costs," its order granting to the short lines
the two days' allowance is in such flat opposition to this
finding that the order cannot be allowed to stand .s an
exception to the general rule.
But there is no such opposition. The Commission was
concerned and dealt with far more important questions
than the determination of the reasonable per diem rental
of a freight car. Its"declared purpose in instituting the
proceeding was to investigate the rules of car-hire settlements and to make "such order . . . in the premises as
might be warranted by the record." The reasonableness
of the two days' free time allowance and that of the
switching reclaim were the chief subjects of its inquiry.
The one which the Court has disapproved is no more an
exception to the genert! finding than the other which it
approves. Both were expressly found reasonable by the
Commission' and both are consistent with its adoption of
the per diem as a standard for measuring the rental value
of cars for purposes of car-hire settlements. The real issue
presented upon the evidence, the findings and the order
of the Commission is not whether the per diem is a fair
method of compensating the car owner-all agree that it
is-but whether it is a fair method of apportioning the
burden of car-hire necessarily incident to a through route;
not whether compensation- should be paid, but who shall
pay it. Upon the record, the Commission's findings and
order cannot justly be characterized as declaring in the
same breath that the two days' free time allowance is
both reasonable and unreasonable. See United States v.
Wells, 283 U. S. 102, 111, 120.
The Commission's investigation embraced all the elements which affect the use of the per diem as an instrument of regulation of the movement of interchanged cars
and as a means of apportioning car-hire costs between
trunk line carriers and connecting short line carriers of

I

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1031.
STONE, J.,

4setg.284UT.9.

the designated class paiticipating in the joint haul. The
findings.of -the Commission are based on the investigation
which it made and support its order. For tife follow-ing reasons, the fifth paragraph of the -order is not open
to the objections urged against it.
First. The very language of the Esch Car Service' Act,
authorizing the Commission to establish "rules, regulations and practices with respect to car service ...
including the dompensation to be ,paid," treats 'car-hire as
one form f regulation of the service. It is but'a reegnition of the historic fact that the car-hire charge may
serve to penalize :the unnecessary detention of cars and
thus to regulate car movement, one of the considerations,
which led to the substitution of. the per diem charge for
the mileage system of car-hire payments.9 ' Iil-this respect
it is analogous to demurrage, in which the penalty element
of the money payment imposed is emphasized over ,the
element of compensation." It is for this reason,' among
.9As bearing on "the primary purpose and function of the per diem
'system -see the statement in Matter of Private Cars, 50 I. C. C. 652,
661, that during the years immediately following 1902 the mileage
rates were actually more remunerative than per diem, and 'the suggestion -that this was a main, cause of many railroads forming subsidiary corporations to own and lease private cars on a mileage basis.
See also the*early statement that the compensatory aspect of the
'mileage system was a minor one, -since it was to be expected that,
with a proper balance of car ownership, debits and -ciedits for car
hire would equalize themilves. Burton Stock Car Co. v. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy ML Co., 1 I. C. C. 132, 140. In later cases-the
Commission has adverted to the punitive 'aspect of per diem, .New
England Divisions, 62 I. C. C. 513, 537, 538, and has stressed also the
element of reciprocity as distinguishing the situation of the line-haul
carriers and that of many of the short lines. Virginia Blue Ridge Ry.
v.,Southem Ry. Co., 96 I. C. C. 591, 593; Lake Erie & Fort Wayne
R. Co., 78 I. C. C. 475, 489; Marcellus & Otisco Co. v.' New York
Central R. Co., 104 I. C. C. 389, 392.
" For discussions of the nature and purpose of demurrage impor-.
tant for its analogy tor per diem, see Turner, Dennis & Lowii Lumber
'Co. jr.-Chicagd Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 271 U. S. 259, aff'g.

C ICAGO, R. I. & P. RYoCo. V. U. S.
80

STONE,.

109

J., dissenting.

others, that the Commission has generally refused to con-

sider car-hire costs in fixing divisions, L and in this case
the Commission found that divisions had .not customarily
been adjusted with relation to such costs.
That the per diem charge in its aspect as a penalty was
an important element in the determination of the Commission, appears from its opinion and order. As the two
days' free time allowance applies only to those cars which
the short line receives from and returns to the line carrier,
it is in practical effect limited to those cars with respect
* to which the short line renders terminal and originating,
services. Under the national "demurrage rules, the terminal lines are bompelled to allow to shippers two days'
free time for loading and unloading before demurrage attaches. There is nothing in the Fifth Amendment to preclude the Commission, in apportioning car-hire costs, from
giving consideration to the operation:of the per diem
charge -as a penalty for the. detention of cars and from
making some allowance for the fact that the terminal
carrier is in turn required to allow to shippers time free
of demurrage charges. The two days which it did allw6
are by no means an exact offset of the free time allowed
2 F. (2d) 291; Swift& Co. v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281;
Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Kittanning Iron & Steel Mfg. Co., 253 U. S.

319, 323. See also Investigation and Suspension of Advances in Demurrage Charges, 25 1.-C. C. 314, 315.
'The Commission in its most extended discussion of the point said
that ear-hire costs never had"been, and should not be; an element in
the fixing of divisions. -New England Divisions, 62I. C. C. 513, 538.

-

Other cases in which the Commission has discussed the relation of
per diem to fair divisions are Chaffee R. Co. v. Western Md. Ry. Co.,
156 I. C. C. 471; Western Md, Ry. Co. v. Maryland.& Pa. R. Co.,:
167 I. C. C. 57, 63. Iir some exceptional. circumstances, the' Commission has weighed car-rental expenses whetn determiing divisions
of the freight rate. See Chaffee R. Co. v. Western Md. Ry. Co.,
102 I. C. C.'53, 59; Middle Creek'R. Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
168 I. C. C. 110, 117 (the, fact that .n6 car-hire was charged a short
line was considered in fixing divisions).

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

284U.S.

under the demurrage rules.12 The amount of time to be
allowed was'a matter for the judgment of the Commission,
influenced by this, together with all other relevant considerations. The Commission gave some, but not controlling, weight to the fact that the short lines, when thus
serving as terminals, would be unduly penalized if no allowance were made to offset the time allowed to shippers.
There was ample evidence supporting its conclusion, and
its order no more deprives the carrier of its property than
would a corresponding determination that time free of
demurrage should be allowed to the shipper, and that it
should be two rather than one or three days.
Second. In any'aspect, the Commission's order cannot
be viewed as requiring trunk lines to furnish their short
line connections with free cars. As stated, the part of the
order with which we are now concerned deals with the
problem of just apportionment; between certain connecting. carriers, of the car-hire cost of a joint haul. The-Per
Diem Rules of the American Railway Association make
that apportionment according to the length of time the
car is upon the rails'of the respective carriers. The Commission found, and the evidence supports its finding, that
such an apportionment is in many respects unfair to short,
lines, engaged in time-consuming terminal and originating
services. The Commission's modification of,the Railway.
Association's formula is based upon the necessary detention of cars in the performance of such services by the
short line for the benefit of both carriers. The assumption
is inadmissible that in so far as trunk lines are thus re'The terminal carrier may be required to allow four days' demurrage for a single car While on its line, two days for unloading and two
for loading. The'demtfrrage rules do not count Sundays or holidays,
nor, for certain commodities, days of stormy weather. On the other
hand, the short lind terminal carrier may benefit if the shipper does
not use his two days, although under the average demurrage. agree-'
ment the unused portion is likely to be inconsiderable.

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

STONE,

J., dissenting.

quired to pay per diem while acar is on a connecting carrier's rails, they are necessarily compelled to assume an
operating cost of the connection. It presupposes the answer to the very question to be decided-whether the per
diem without allowances is a just basis for apportioning
car-hire costs in, the case of the short lines. The fallacy
of the similar assumption, once commonly made, that
mileage should be the sole test of the reasonableness of divisions of joint rates, -was repeatedly pointed out both by
the Commission and by this Court, befdre Congress specifically enumerated other elements for consideration. 3
In both cases, the reduction of the broad statutory injuncti6n of reasonableness to a single one of its constituent
elements; disregarding all others, produces a result with
a false appearance of reasonableness, which, when gauged
by the standard which the regulatory statute sets up, is
unreasonable and unjust.
Far from representing any universal standard of natural justice for the fair apportionment of car-hire costs,
the per diem system is of recent origin, and-adopted with
purposes primarily in view quite foreign to the simple
end of accurate compensation. 4 The completely disparate measure of mileage prevailed until 1902. Mileage
is still the .basis upon which owners of private railroad
cars are compensated, 5 and until the orders issued by the
" See, e. g., O'Keefe v. United States, 240 U. S. 294, 303,'304; Star
Grain & Lumber Co. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.Co., 14 I. C. C. 364,
370; Stacy & Sons v. Oregon Short Line R. Co., 20 I. C. C.136, 138;
Divisions of Joint Rates and Fares of Missouri & North Arkansas R.
Co., 68 I. C. C. 47, 59. Compare Transportation Act, 1920, February 28, 1920, c. 91, § 418, 41 Stat. 456, 486; New England Divisions
Case, 261 U. S.184, 195; New England Divisions; 126 I. C.C.579, 667.
"'Seenote 9, supra; Haines, loc. cit. supra, note 1; L. F. Loree,
Railroad Freight Transportation (2d ed. 1929), pp. 383, 390.
'Under § 1 (14), the Commission has several times prescribed
reasonable rates of compensation on a mileage basis for private cars.
In Matter of Private Cars, 50 I. C. 0. 652, 684-686, it considered

112

OCTOBER TERM,. 1931.
SToxu, J., dissenting.

284U.S.

Commission in-the present controversy, it was the measure of payment stipulated by members of the American
Railway Association for cars of non-members. The per
diem is admittedly but a rule of thumb, though the best
which experience has devised to meet all the complex
requirements growing qut of the average car-hire situation. In a large number of instances the Inte rstate Commerce Commission, to ,secure a more jdlst apportionment,
has ordered that car-hire costs of certain short-line industrial common carriers be computed with a varying n,mbe- of days of "free tie ";6 and in a still larger numthe per diem basis at length aidd oncluded that for private cars the
mileage system was preferable. See also Armour & Co. v. El Paso &
Southwestern Co., 52 I. C. C. 240; Paragon Refining Co. v. Alton
& Southern R. Co., 1i8 I. C. -C. 166; Assigned Cars for Bituminous
Coal' Mines, 80 I. C. C. 520, 556; Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S.

564, M575.
"The Commission has many times, apparently acting tnder § 1'(14),
prescribed terms of car compensation for industrial common carriers.
Compare the approval, prior to 1917, of the, placing of short lineson
a demurrage basis, in Drummond & S. W. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, etc.
Ry. Co., 21 I. C. C. 567. These cases took their starting point, before
the'passage of the Esch Car Service Act, in the Industrial Railways
Case, 29 I. C. C. 212, 231-233, in which the Commission found that
the switching reclaims un:der the per diem system were a: fertile ource
of rebates and exemptions from demurrage for shippers who maintained independently incorporated railroads which were in substance
plant facilities. - Following the announcement in the Tap Line Cases,
231 U. S.1, of a rule giving many of the roads involved in the Industrial Railways Case the-status of common carriers, the Commission in
a supplemental report, modified its original findings as to such carriers,
and permitted them to restablish per diem and reclaims. 32 I. C. C.
129; 133; See also Second Industrial Railways Case, 34 I. C. C. 596,
600. Subsequently, however, in a long series of cases the per diem
system- as applied to industrially owned common carriers was condemned, -and different methods of car hire compensation prescribed.
In the Northampton & Bath R. Co. Case, 41 I. C. C. 68, 74, the effect
of the arrangement prescribed was to give the earrier two days' free
time counterbalancing the two days accorded shippers under the demurrage rules, plus one -ay in addition. In the Owasco River Ry.
Case, 53 I. C. C. 104, 113, a straight'per diem system was ordered;

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO.- v. U. S.
80

STONE,

113

J., dissenting.

ber of instances trunk lines themselves have voluntarily
but this basis of settlement was disapproved soon after in Birmingham
Southern R. Co. v. Director General, 61 I. C. C. 551. In this case an
industrial common carrier specifically besought the Commission to fix
reasonable charges under § 1 (14), asking for a per diem system. with
reclaims for all cars, whether handled under switching rates or under
joint rates with divisions. The Commission denied this relief, and condemned reclaims, but prescribed a demurrage system, giving the short
line 72 hours free time on cars loaded one way, credits for cars sooner
returned to be averaged against debits, and the short line to be free
to execute, average demurrage agreements with shipper's. The Birmingham Southern was not eligible for switching reclaims under the
A. R. A. rules in respect to traffic handled under joint rates. Its average detention of foreign cars was shown to be 3.2 days. The so-called Birmingham Southern Rules were subsequently prescribed for'other industriar common carriers in National Tube Co.
v. Pittsburgh, C., C.-& St. L. R. Co., 61 I. C. C. 590; Illinois Northern Ry., 61 I.'C. C.. 629; Pullman Railroad Co., 61 1. C. C. 637;
Benwood & Wheeling Connecting Ry. Co. v. Pittsburgh, C., C. &
St. L. R. Co.; 62 I. C. C. 357; Tionesta Valley Ry. Co., 62 I. C. C.
473; Genesee & Wyoming R. Co., 62 I. C. C. 6S0; Lake Erie & Fort
Wayne R. Co., 63 I. C. C. 122 (determining questions left open in
58 I. C. C. 558, 561, 666, 671, 677, 680); Moshassuck Valley R. Co.
v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co., 69 I. C. C. 368. See' also Mount
Hope Mineral R. Co. v. Central R. Co. of N. J., 74 I. C. C. 195,
199, 200. The question was reexamined with respect to several of
the roads involved in the preceding cases in Lake. Erie & Fort
Wayne R. Co., 78 I., C. C. 475, and the Birmingham, Southern rules
somewhat modified. In this casethe notion that the object was to
relieve the industrial common carrier altogether of car hire was
specifically' repudiated. Ibid. at 489. The Birmingham Southern
Rules were again prescribed in Valley & Siletz R.'Co. v. Southern
Pac. Co., 80 I. C. C. 724; Hanging.Rock Iron Co. v. Norfolk &
Western Ry. Co., 87 I. C. C. 373; Lime Rock R. Co. v. Maine
Central R. Co., 102 I. C. C. 48,
For other examples of the Commission's approval of the relief
of short lines from strict per diem, see Mount Hood R. Co. v. Director
General, 60 I. C. C. 116, 117; New York Dock Ry. v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co., 89 I. C. C. 695, 696, 702, 706. Compare Sones &
Laughlin Steel Co. v. Director General, 60 I. C. C. 325, 331.
With Virginia Blue Ridge Ry. v. Southern Ry. Co., 96 I. C. C.
591, there -began a series of cases denying non-industrially owned
85912 --32---8

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
STONE, J., dissenting.

284U.S.

instituted such arrangements. 7 The device of "switching reclaim" itself, eisewhere concerned in this case,
pointedly exemplifies the admitted inapplicability of the
per diem system to certain special operating conditions.
In this instance carriers engaged in a time-consuming
switching service are in effect relieved altogether of carhire costs; and the Court has sustainel this departure
by the Commission from the single standard of time of
detention. , Perhaps the most striking example of all is
the operation of the rule imposing upon the carrier in
possession of a car at midnight liability for per diem for
the following twenty-four hours. Under this rule an
intermediate carrier, incurring no delays for loading or
unloading, may receive a car shortly after midnight, haul
short lines relief from the straight per diem rules of the A. R. A.
The series was continued in Western Pine Lumber Co. v. Director
General, 96 I. C. C. 625; Morehead & North Fork R. Co. v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 100 I. C. C. 45; Chaffee IR. Co. v. Western
Md. Ry. Co., 102 I. C. C. 53; and Jefferson & Northwestern Ry.
Co. v. Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co., 102 I. C C. 72; and concluded in
Marcellus & Otisco Co. v. New York Central R. Co., 104 I. C. C.
389. See also Superior & S. E. Ry. Co. v. Director General, 63
I. C. C. 431; Carnegie Steel Co. v. Director General, 80 I. C. C.
269, 270, 274.
This last group of cases states that the application of the Birmingham Southern Rules is to be restricted to industrial common carriers,
and that their purpose is to prevent undue favoritism to the proprietary industries through the payment of switching reclaims. Many of
the roads in question, however, were operating at least in part utnder
joint rates and divisions, and thus were not eligible for reclaims'; and
the allowance to them of a modified demurrage basis was much more
favorable than per diem. In the present investigation the Commission abandoned its distinction between industrial and non-industrial
common carriers, revoked its determination in cases of both the Birmingham Southern and the Virginia Blue Ridge types, and substituted
the provisions of paragraph (5) of its order.
' The following table, taken from the Commission's Report (Record,
p. 39), illustrates the extent tb which non-subscribi',g railroads out-

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

SToN,

115

J., dissenting.

it several hundred miles, and by delivering -it to a third
road before the following midnight escape car-hire altogether. 'The seeming unfairness, when measured in terms
of the period of detention alone, disappears when that
element is examined in comparison 'with the compensating effects of the reciprocal operation of the rule between
connecting carriers- and the difficulties and expense of accounting for less than twenty-four hour periods. Freedom from the per diem, when all relevant considerations
are taken into dcc.ount, is therefore nbt necessarily a
gratuity.
side of Chicago, have settled on some basis other than'per diem with
the trunk lines with which they exchange. traffic:
Nonsubscrnber connections
Trunkline

'

Which pay Which settle
on somo
straight
per diem - other basis

Total

Burlington -----------------------

18

10
Chesapeake & Ohio ----------------21
Great Northern --- ----- -----------10
L. & N ------------------------20
Missouri Pacific -------------------8
New Haven ----------------------9
Northwestern -----------------------------------------Pennsylvania .
12
Soo Line ------------------------27
Southern ------------------------46
Southern Pacific (Pacific Lines) -----14
SouthernPacific (Texasund Louisiana)_

St. L. S. W ----------------------'Union Pacific ---------------------

7

15

2

5
0
2
3
5
6
6
4
20
24
10

3
6

16
21
-8
17
3
3
49
7
22
4

4
9

Exact number not given.

This table includes 67 industrial roads among the nonsubscriber
roads and is therefore not a wholly accurate reffection of the relations of other short lines with the trunk line carriers; but even when'
'the industrial roads are eliminated from the table, it is still apparent
that the trunk lines disregard the Code -with respect to a large proportion of the total nonsubscriber connections. Settlement with industrial roads on other '6an the per diem basis does not violate the Code.
But the present order of the Commission, it may be noted, does not
distinguish between industrial and other short lines.

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.'
STONF, J., dissenting.

284U.S.

In atteiY.pting to find a measure of the just apportion-,
ment of car-hire costs, thb railroads and the Commission
have had to face a condition of extraordinary complexity,
and not a theory. The Fifth Amendment does not command the impossible. It-does not demand that the power"
and duty of the Commission to make the apportionment
be thwarted.by requiring it to adopt a standard of unat'tainable exactness. The validity of what is of necessity
a.rule of thumb, best adapted to secure a just apportionment, can hardly depend upon a perfect precision in its
application; 'its imperfections in this respect are themselves compensated.by .aiiadvisedly sought simplicity and
convenience of operation.
Under these circumstances; it is not to be supposed that
in a special situation such as that of the short 'lines, the
mere departure by the Commission from the per diem
basil for apportioning car-hire costs between pirties to a
joint haul, can of-itself constitute either a taking of: the
property of the carrier affected by it, or a tiking of it
without. compensation. The appellants have no vested
right not to pay their share- of the hire of cars engaged in
a joint service to whi6h they are parties, sihply because
those cars afe temporarily off their own rails. They are.
entitled oly to have the .Commission make reasonable
-rules for car-hire apporiofiment; and the reasonableness
of aniy rule which it may adopt is a question wholly independent of its conformity to the measure of time of detention or to the Per Diem Rules of the.American Railway Association. The reasons which support that part of
the order allowing switching reclaims, as well as those
advanced by-the Court to -justify that imposing on the'
trunk lines the burden, of accounting for car-hire settlements. on cars •exchanged with the. short lines, do not
principle from those which support the two day
differ -in
allowance, and at least should have led to some considera,tion by-the Court of the evidence warranting the latter.

*

CttICAGO R.I. &-. RY. CO. v. U. S.

80

STONE, J., dissenting.

117

Thiird. The appellants have not sustained their burden
of establishing that the Commission's rule is unreasonable. The principles to which courts ordinarily adhere in
reviewing orders of the Commission do' not admit of dispute. If the Commission -does -not refuse 'to consider
relevant evidence, if it does not proceed upon a mistake
of law, if it acts upon evidence sufficient to support its
findings, the Court will not itself underta]ko to weigh such
evidence, to inquire into the soundness of the reasoning
which. induced the Commission's'conclusions, or to question the wisdom of regulations which it 'prescribes. New
'EnglandDivisions Case, 261 U. S, 184, 203, 204.But the position of appellants is that the question is not
one of the reasonableness of the' Commrission's action.
*They insist that as the per diem is an operating expense,like any other which the:shOrt 'line must p , no evidence
-can justify an order that it should be paid by any other
railrod. 8 Their position ignores the fact that the action.
of the Comnmission is no more than the exercise of its
undoubted power to apportiori the car-hire dosts of a
joint serivice' by connecting lines, and- is based upon a
fundamentally erroneous theorkr of the powers, of the
Commission to prescribe reasonable rules for car-hire settlement. The per diemprinciple adopted by the Arercan Railway Association in 1902 is not -embeddeq 'in the
-Fifth Amendment adopted by this nation in 1791. Departures from it are hot forbidden any more thari any
other action which may le takeni under Section 1 (14),
if reasonable and supported by-adequate evidence. See
Assigned Car Cases, supra, p. 580.
Nevertheless, appellants have presented'no argument'
either here- or below upon the reasonableness of :the
present departure or upon' the issue of the adequacy, of
the evidence. During the Commiiission's. heatings'they
.Appelant's brief, p. '95.

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1931,
STOND, J., dissenting.

284 U.S.

steadily opposed the introduction of testimony relating
to comparative proportions of car-hire expense and operating costs as between short lines and trunk lines, or to
the comparative proportions of car-hire expenses and operating revenues. They offered no such evidence themselves; nor did they attempt to defend the fairness to
the short line carriers of the per diem basis of apportioning car-hire costs, beyond asserting that a fair apportionment of such costs was necessarily an apportionment per
diem, an assertion unsupported by any evidence to establish the unfairness of any other of the formulae proposed.
The appellants having confined their entire case to this
contention, it suffices for this Court to point out their
error.
Fourth.Even assuming the question of the sufficiency
of the evidence to be open, it is clear that the Commission had ample evidence before it to show that short lines
were being compelled to bear a disproportionate burden
of car-hire costs. It was undisputed that the per diem
system was adopted by the larger carriers in disregard
of protests of the short lines, and that the per diem rules
had been modified and elaborated by -members of the
American -Railway Association without giving the short
lines a voice in the decisions. The evidence left no possible question that the short lines lost heavily by the
replacement of the mileage system, which imposed no car
hire whatever for equipment not in motion, by the per
diem system, which emphasizes the period of detention.
Short line witnesses presented a mass of evidence of the
time-consuming character of the services performed l y
short lines in terminal and originating operations, including spotting and weighing cars, issuing. through bills of
lading, maintaining joint tariffs and computing rates, and
most important of all, the allowance to shippers of two

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
80

119

SToxn, J., dissenting.

days' free time for loading and unloading, as provided
under the National Demurrage Rules."0
It was urged that with the two days' allowance to short
line feeders, the trunk lines could still derive more net
revenue from the haul than would accrue if the shipments
originated on their own lines at the points of interchange.'
There was evidence that operating .conditions of short
lines, because of the very shortness of the haul-and physiogyaphical and other difficulties, are characteristically unfavorable to speed in handling. Many witnesses testified
that the measurement of car-hire costs by time of detention imposes a peculiarly heavy burden upon a class of
carriers benefited by paragraph (5) of the Commission's
order, that is, short lines engaged in returning loaded cars
empty, or empty cars loaded, to trunk line connections,
because, unlike other lines engaged only in part in such
operations, they never have the opportunity of averaging gains and losseg, the advantage of a long haul with
the disadvantage of a short.2"
In corroboration of this testimony a, great amount of
evidence was received, as a result of a questionnaire sent
to all short lines desiring to be heard; to show that the
ratio of car-hire expenses to total expenses, and of carhire costs to revenues was substantially higher for the
short lines than for their trunk line connections. Upon

"Note 10, supra. See Loree, op. cit. supra, note 14, p. 322 et seq.;
also pp. 264, 268 et *seq., showing a great preponderance of car time
occupied by loading and unloading and terminal and delivery movement. "There is general agreement bdtween (sic) the railroad men
that the time consumed by an average car on the road is very insignificant in comparison with that in'the terminal and intermediate yard
and for loading and unloading." Shih-Hsuan King, Railroad Freight
Car Service-Confrol by the *Car Service Division of the American
Railway Association, p. 67.
"See note 14, supra.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
STONE, -J.,dissenting.

284I.S.

such a-record it cannot be said that 'the Commission could
give no weight to those considerations and could not reasonably conclude that the short lines were entitled to
relief; on the contrary, the evidence justified the conclusioin that the per diem basis enforced or threatened to
be enforced against them by the American Railway Association would, in fact, result in transferring to larger roads
part of the legitimate revenues of -the short lines, and
thus would deprive them of their property without any
process of law whatever.
Fifth. The Commission's order does not go beyond the
relief to which the short lines showed themselves entitled,
nor does it prescribe a formula unreasonably burdensome
upon their trunk line connections, nor is it based upon an
improper classification. -Paragraph (5)* is strictly limited
to cars which are used by short lines in terminal or originating services; and to that extent is accurately framed to
meet the only substantial complaint which the short lines
made. It is also apparently"linited to carriers engaged
exclusively in such service; and appellants suggest that
the resulting exclusion of 'roads performing any amount of
intermediate service, however slight, is arbitrary and unreasonable. Whatever -the proper construction of the
order, and whatever the justice of any complaint by a
carrier of the class excluded, it is -sufficient answer here
that appellants do not themselves belong to that class,
Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, 271. U. S. 50, 54,
55, and cannot complain that the-Commission's order was
not given a wider application.
The order also excludes terminal or originating carriersof mote 'than one hundred miles in length,'a class to which
appellants do belong. The opinion of the Court concedes
that the two-day allowance would be valid if rhade to
all railroads, but insists that an allowance which could be
made to all cannot be made to a selected class, the short
lines which perform.terminal services. The contention is

CHICAGO; R. I & P. RY. CO. v. U. S.
s0

SToNE, J., dissenting.

in effect that the Commission, confronted with evidence of
the peculiarly onerous operation of per diem charges'on
terminal and originating movements, had power to relieve
it, if at all, only by establishing a system of universal reclaim for terminal and originating car-hire costs, analogous to switching reclaim, and running in favor of all carriers engaged in such service. But the Commission's authority is not restricted either by § 1 (14) or by the Constitution to granting relief to all or none, regardless of
their need. There was abundant evidence that the per
diem system equalized itself for trunk line carriers through"
the averaging of gains and losses from long and short
hauls. There was no evidence that the trunk lines regarded that system as unfair. The limitation of the order
to carriers of less than 100 miles engaged exclusively in
terminal or originathig- services, whose .special situation
rendered the per diem peculiarly burdensome to them,
falls well within the bounds of reasonable classification
marked out by the decisions of this Court. Wilson v. New,
243 U. S. 332, 354, and cases cited.
Nor was the Commission's action within the class
chosen unreasonable. A remedy may, and, in the present
case, must be shaped to meet the evil. Instead of abandoning the per diem system altogether for the benefit of
the comparatively few, roads prejudice& by it, the Coninission lightened its burden upon them by a. rule of
thumb no more crude or arbitrary than the principle of
per diem itself. Had it ieturned all roads to a mileage
basis, or,. as the opinion of the Court suggests, allowed
the two days to all roads; the short lines would equally.
have been relieved of the disadvantages of per diem, but
the trunk lines would have lost its advantages. The reM.edy given by the Commission retains the benefits of ppr
diem and relieves the short lines of the brunt of the burden. arising from the two free days accorded shippers,
while leaving them to bear the other special costs created

OCTOBER TERM, 1931
STONE, J., dissenting.

284 U.S.

by a time measure for short hauls, and conforms to the
urgent suggestions of trunk line witnesses that any practicable rule must be simple of statement and ready of application. It is less extreme in result than-the device of
switching reclaim, in approval of, which this Court and
the Commission agree, and which was designed to relieve
carriers whose services, many witnesses testified, are distinguishable from those of these short lines only by being
performed under a switching rather than a line haul rate.
Virtually all the 141 short line witnesses testified to the
average detention period of cars on their lines, and many
of them to the amount of car-hire Which would be incurred under the Commission's proposed rule. The record
justifies the opinion that only rarely'would the short lines
escape the payment of substantial sums, and then only
under circumstances as exceptional as those created by
the midnight rule already mentioned. The weighing of
evidence of this sort is peculiarly a matter to be left to
the administrative "tribunal appointed by law and informed by experience." Illinois Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441, 454. No
adequate reason has been advanced for rejecting the conclusion which that tribunal drew from the evidence presented to it.
Sixth. The Commission, under the auithoiity conferred
by paragraph (14) to establish reasonable rules and practices for car service, "including the compensation to be
paid for the use of any . . . car," is empowered to make
orders of the character issued in this investigation without instituting a divisions case to review the rate structuie
and financial 'condition of every carrier in the country.
The contention of appellants to the contrary is based
upon grounds so sweeping as either to deny the existence
of the power or to render impossible its effective exercise.
It is urged that the effect of the Commission's order is

CHICAGO, R. 1. & P. R.Y. CO. v. U. S.
80

123

STONE, J., dissenting.

to require a transfer of revenue from appellants and other
roads similarly situated to the designated short-line carriers; that rates, divisions, and financial condition of the
railroads were not in issue; and that the Commission cannot avoid the rules governing the fixing of divisions by
effecting a redistribution of revenue between carriers
under the guise of regulation of car-hire. But as any
alteration in the rules governing compensation for the
use of cars authorized by § 1 (14) necessarily affects the
revenues of the carriers concerned, the argument amounts
to an assertion that there can be none except in a divisions
case.
In so far as the appellants' ilnputation is that the Commission was less concerned witif fair apportionment of
car-hire costs than with financial rehabilitation of weak
lines, it may be said shortly that this is without support
in the record. The Commission did consider, and properly so, the relation between car costs and total operating
costs of short lines, and between car costs and revenues
from joint hauls. It found that the short lines were paying disproportionately large sums for the use of cars; and
it found further that their rates and divisions had not customarily been adjusted with relation to such costs.21 The
Commission's power to remedy an unfair basis of carhire apportionment is not confined to r6mitting the injured carriers to the incertainties of rate litigation which,
but for that unfairness, would be unnecessary, and which
opens up a multitude of unrelated questions serving only
to obscure the immediate issue. Many of the short lines
are not able financially to litigate a divisions case. Rates established to absorb unduly heavy-car-hire costs, moreover, must themselves be unduly high; and in many instances would defeat the object of relief. Finally, the
- See note 11, supra.

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
STowx, J., dissenting..

284U.S.

Commission is without jurisdiction to adjust many divisions of intrastate rates. Its .authority over car-hire
.
charges is withoift such limitation.
The Commission considered at length its power and
duty to apportion car-hire costs independently -of divisions. ,Its judgment that they should be dealt with under
the authority conferred by § 1 (14), was in accordance
with the unvaried practice of the trunk, lines, whose traffic
and transportation departments have customarily kept
divisions and car-hire rigidly divorced.' There is no basis,
either in fact or latv,- for the assumption that,the; questiong
involved in an apportionment of car-hire, at least in: cases
like the preseft Aie not separable from those involved in,
-divisions case,: or for the assertion that the power conferred on the Commission by § 1 (14) cannot be exercised
,independently of its power to*order a diisi6n. of a joint
rate.
Considerations especially applicable to coal cafs placed
on mine sidings,6n the slort lines for ldading, but analo:-'
gous to those which led-to the two-day allowance for cars
of other types, support the conclusion. of th6 Commission
that the per diem mule should not operate at all in thecase
of the former. It suffices to saythat the difference is based
upon the pecuiar'character of this traffic and 'of the originating service iendered-,,and particularly, upon the. fet
that under the applicable demurrage iules .short lines are
forbidden to collect any demurrageon coal cars so placed.
See Demurrage- on Coal & Coke, 102 I. C. C. 554. The
principle involved being the dame'as that underlying each
of the other proisions -of the rde.r, this one, like the
others, should not have'been disturbed uhless an examination of the evidence disclosed that it was not reasonable,
The judgment should be affirmed.
MR.JusTice Homs and. MR. JusTicE B4-wDEis join
in this opinion.

