'52

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284-U.S.

some tnaterial change in the tr~nspotati6n situation.
Here, the petitibner -was pculiaily concerned;, its own
welf ar'ewas seriously threatened,--It-Alleged the leginnihg
of an unlawful indertakiigby axarrier which might prove
deletenios I*o it as-well as to the l ublicnterest in securing an~d maintaining properlsrailroad servite'Without undue loss. It relied upon the promedure prescribed by the
statute tosecure an orderly hearing-and proper defermina,-

tionI qf 'the matter. The disclosures of -the bill were
enough to show that the-.rdspondent's intended action
might directly and seriously afect the project which complainant Was undertaking- in good. faith. There was
enough to give the latterthe standing-of a "party in interest" within intendment of the Act.

Rev~efsed.
PERAMTIT CO. v. GRAVER - CORPORATION:
,CERTIORARI TO, THE CIRCUIT, COURT- OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVtNTH CIRCUIT.

No. 3., Argued October 15, 16, 1931.--Deiided.Noirember 23, 1931.
1.'A patent which fails t'o describe in The speification, and to point
out particularly and distinctly claim, an invention or discovery, is
V
void. -R..S. §4888. 1P 57':
2. While drawinis may be referred 'to-for illustration and-xnay be
used as an aid in interpreting the sp'cificatibn or claim, they are
of no avail where there is an-entire absence of description of the
allege& invention or a failure to clan if P. 6(.
4
. Patent 1 o. 1,195,923 (Claimis 1 and 5) to Gaiis, for an app'aratus
for softening watdr, is void, 'for want of disclosure and. want of
invention., Pp. 57-6 0:"
T
apparatus employs the process. of' softening water by means
of zeolites, which take up-calcium and magnesium fromlhard water,
giving up their,sodium base, and are" regenerated". when washed
by a solution'of common salt. The light zeolite particles rest.uppn
a -filter-bed of Sand uLLd gravel- withL the container in. -which th&
!:-egeneratixijsalt solu-water is treatid. When the
tioni, is flowed through -them fromi belowi- they: are 'iely to be

PEfRM IT CO. v. GRAVR CORP,

-53

Opinion of the Court."%

52

washed away.. Toipreventthis, in th6 earlier filters, a metal screen
was placed close hbove the bed of zeolites. The patentee was
alleged to have discovered that this "locking "f the zeolites inter.feted with their efficient action, and that it was necessary to have
an open space above them in which they might rise'or-" boil" and
spread out and reform in the bed; and the alleged invention chiefly
relied uponw in the litigation la in renovAil-of the eloe-fitting cover
and. in plicing the-scree' sone disthnce above the layer; but -this
was not mentioned in the specification or in either of the claims.
A further contention, under Claim 5, that there was invention in
placing the means for removing the salt solutionTat the lowest point
of the casing is also .rejected._ "It does 3iot require the exercis&
of. the inventive faculty to-place at. tle bottom of & receptacle the
outlet through-which it is to be drained."
43 F. (2d) 898, affirmed.

"CERTIORARI, 283 U. S. 812, to review a decree affirming
a decree of the District Court, 37 F. (2d)'385,'dismissing
.a suit to enjoin alleged infringen:ent of a patent.
Mr. Drury W. Cooper, with whom Messrs. Graham,
Sumner, George A. Chritton,-and Allan C. Bakewell were "
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles - L. Byron, with whom Mr. George L.
Wilkinson was. on fhe brief, for respondent.
MR. "JusncE BRA

.DEISdelivered the opinion. :f the

-Court.
The Permutit Company is.the owner of-Gans Patent'
No. 1,195,923,- for an apparatus for softening water, ap* plied for August 5, 1911 and granted August 22, 1916. It
brought, on. February 23, 1928, this suit in the federal
court for northern Illinois,. against Graver Corporation, to
enjoin infringement of Claims 1 and 5.' The defendant
denied both the-validity of the patent and he infringe-

ment. The District Court held both claims invalid, 37 F.
(2d) 385. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh

Circuit affirmed that decision; and also held that the

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

defendant's "presently used structures" do not infringe
Claim 5, 43 F. (2d) 898. Certiorari was granted because
of conflict with earlier decisions in other circuits.Water is hard because it contains the salts of calcium
and magnesium. It may be softened by distillation or by
adding to the water certain other, chemicals through
which the hardening constituents in solution are changed
to an insbluble form and precipitated. Such softening
may also be effected by the use of zeolite, a hydrated
alumino-silicate found .in nature. When hard water is
passed through zeolites they give up their sodium to the
water and take from it the calcium and magnesium as. a
new base. Zeolites have the peculiar quality that, after
becoming exhausted in such use, they may be regenerated
by passing a solution of common salt through them,
whereupon they give up their new base of calcium and
magnesium and take back their-sodium base. They retain
indefinitely these valuable properties.
The chemical attributes of zeolites, and their enect
upon hard water; had been known long before the application for the patent in suit. But zeolites were not employed commercially as a water-softener because, as then
found in nature, they were ill adapted for use in filters
and the expense of mining them was large. Gans invented
a process for producing artificial zeolites and a process of
softening water by means of them. The United States
-patents .issued for those inventions had expired .before
The pateiit was first sustained by the District Court for western
New York. Perniutit Co. v. Harvey Laundry Co., 274 Fed. 937;
affirmed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, 279 Fed. 713; certiorari denied, 259" U. S. 588.. It was then sustained by the District
Court for southern New York. Permutit Co.v: Pafe & Jones Chemical Co., 292 Fed. 239; affirmed, 22 F. (2d) 916. It ivas also sustained by the Si'th Circuit Court of Appeals, Permutit Co. v. Wadham, 13 F. (2d) 454, 15 F. (2d) 20; reversing the decision in 294
Fed. 370, which had held the patent invalid.

PERMUTIT CO. v. GRAVER CORP.
52

-

Opinion of the Court.

the commencement of this suit,- which is upon a patent
for an apparatus ,in which the zeolites or alumino silicates can be used in a filter and be- regenerated therein
so as to be capable of continuous use for the softening of
water." The. essential elements of the water-softening
process in wfich this apparatus is employed are the passage of water through zeolites, their regeneration by recharging them with the sodium chloride solution and the
rinsing of them thereafter, so that no noticeable tinge of
salt will be found in the filtered water. A drawing was attached to the specification as an example ofa filter provided according to the invention claimed.
As described in the specification, the apparatus consists of a cylindrical container within which are "a number of horizontally disposed perforated plates." Near the
bottom is one upon which rests a layer of sand (or quartz).
This supports a bed of zeolites. At some distance above.
the zeolites is another' perforated bed of sand "through
which the water to be softened may be first filtered."
There are piping connections so that the hard water may
be run into the casing through the zeolitebed and out to
the soft-water service line. The chamber is:also provided
with means for cutting off the hard water and introducing
a flow of salt water to regenerate the zeolites; and 'with
means for-washing out of the container the contaminated
brine and any accumulated dirt. As so coiistruited, the
filter may operate by letting the hard water flow either
downward through the'ulper sand bed-to the zeolites or.
upward to them through the lower sand bed. On'March
2, 1920, The Permutit Company disclaimed from the
.. scope of Claim-i any apparatus "in which the water to
be softened is so introduced into the casing that it passes
upwardly through said layer of zeolites." It is conceded
that - Graver Corporation's 1927 type of water softener
does not infringe Claim 1 as in it the water passes up-

56

OGTOBER TERM,^ 1931..
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

ward. The specification also describes, and the drawing
indicates, a modified form. of apparatus provided with
means for stirring the~zeolites in washing. No stirrer is
employed in the defendants' apparatus.
First. The apparatus described in the specification
-closely resembles sand filters long used. The elements
enumerated above, alone and in combination, are confessedly old. The only invention seriously urged under
Claim 1 is the -substitution of a "free" for a "locked"
zeolite bed-a matter which is not referred to either in
the specification or' in the cldim. In earlier filters the
zeolites had been held in place by locking the bed; that
is, by placing a metal screen either immediately over the
layer of zeolites or over a layer of burlap or excelsior resting upon them. 'The occasion for, a screen is that zeolite
grains are lighter than the sand and gravel on which they
rest. In flowing the 'water or the regenerating solution
upward through the zeolite bed in an upflow softener, or
in backwashing the zeolites, in a downflow, softener, for
the purpose of cleansing them of acciunulated slime and,
dirt, the lighter grains may be washed out through the
flow pipe unless impeded in some way, Gans -is alleged
to have discovered that a: locked zeolite bed is erratic 'in
action and will soon cease to give soft water; that through
such -a bed the hard water, will flow unevenly; that preferred channels- of flow will form; that the zeolites contiguous to them- will be speedily. exhausted and the hard
water will pass through unaffected, although the great
mass of zeolite naterial remains unexhausted; and that it
is. necessary to have an open space above the top of-the
zeolites in. order to furnish opportunity for the zeolites.
to'rise or boil, and, to spread out and reform in the bed.
The invention felied.jupon consists in 'emoving the closefitting cover frb i the '.eolite bed and in providing Ede-

PERMUTIT CO. v. GRAVER CORP.
52

57

Opinion of the Court.

quate rising space by placing the screen at some distance
above the top of the layer of zeolites.
We have no occasion to consider whether this alleged
Gans invention'of a" free" zeolite bed rises to the dignity2
of invention or whether, as Graver Corporation contends,
it .lacked novelty, and was anticipated by 6arlier apparatus and publications-defenses to which the evidence, the
briefs and the oral arguments were mainly directed. For
even if a patent for a "free ".bed might have been vlid,
that sued on is invalid for lak of the disclosure prescribed
by R. S. § 4888.' There is no mentiQn in the specification
of either a "free" or a "locked" zeolite bed; or of the
alleged discovery that a rising space above the zeolite bed
is netessaryfor the successful operAtion of the softener;
or of the need of a device1toprevent the lighter grains of
zeolite from passing out in back washing. Nor- does Claim
1 or Claim 5 make mention: of a "free" zeolite bed.
Claim 1 is for "a filter bed consisting of a layer of sand
or quartz and a layer of zeolites or hydrated aluminosilicates disposed on the layer of sand or quartz." " Claim
It was contended by defendant that the "free bed" had been
fully described in prior printed publications -more than two years
before the time Gans filed his application for the patent sued- on.
Moreover, in this case (unlike the earlier ones), the defendant intro-

duced much evidence of successful operation of "locked" beds.
&
gwall v. Jones, 91 T. S 171, 184, 185; Yale Lock Mfg. Qo. v.
Greenleaf, 117 U. S. 554, 559;. Steward v. American Lava Co., 215
U. S. 161, 165-167; Reidler v.. United States, 253 U. S. 447, 452, 453;
Fulton C6. v. Po'wers Regulator Co., 263 Fed. "578, 580; Typewriters

H liardized, Inc., v. Corona Typewiter Co, 43. F. (2d) .961,. 964.
"Claim 1. A water softening apparatu§ pomprising a casing, a
filter bed consisting ofa layei of sand or quartz and a layer of:
zeolites *or hydrated alumino-silicates disposed 'on the layer of sand

or quartz, means for permitting the passage of vater through the
casing, means for cutting off the supply-of water on the exhaustion
of the zeolites, and means for passing through the casing a solution
of salt capable of regenerating the zeolites."

58

OCTOBER TERM,. 1931.
Opinion bf the Court.

284U.S.

5 for "a filter bed consisting of a layer of zeolites or alumino-silicates, supporting means for said layer." -' As the
pater/tee has thus failed to give in the specification "a
written description""and has likewise failed particularly
to point out and distinctly claim the free zeolite-bed, as
"the part, improvement, or combination which he claims
as his invention or discovery," the patent is void.
The question of compliance with the requirement of
disclosure laid down by § 4888 was not adverted to in
either opinion of the Second Circuit Couirt of Appeals
sustaining the validity of the patent, 279 Fed. 713; 22 F.
(2d) 916 nor was it called to the attention of this Court,
which denied certiorari in the first case in 259 U. S. 588.
In those cases both of the District Courts seem to have
thought that the free surface of the zeolites was indicated
by the attached drawing and to have deemed such
indication sufficient, although the matter was .nowhere mentioned in the description or claims, 274 Fed.
937, 942; 292 Fed. 239, 240.' •The. opinion in the second
case added that this feature was necessarily "presupposed" in the stirring device mentioned in the description' as*" advantageous" and included in other claims not
now in suit, and that it was "involved" in the absenice
from Claims 1 and 5 of any upper sand filter. These con-'
"Claim 5. Water softening apparatus comprising a casing, a filter
bed consisting of a layer of zeolites or alumino-silicates, supp.orting
means for said layer, means for permitting the passage of water
through the casing, means for cutting off- the supply of water on the
exhaustion of the-zeolites, means f6r supplying and passing into the
casing a solution of a salt capable of regenerating zeolites and means
connected to the lowest point of the casing for remo-ing the salt
solution so -intoduced."
'In 22 F. (2d) 916, 918, the court, in rejecting a defense of anticipation by a German, Gebrauchmuster, stated that the earlier patentee
did not have in mind back washing to which Gans referred in his
specification. Thi. was not said, however, in reference to the question
of the adequacy of Gans's disclosure.

PERMUTIT CO. v. GRAVER CORP.
52

Opinion of the Court.

clusions were adopted7 by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit, which invoked the .doctrine that
"if the specification and drawings of a patent show a
structure clearly involvinga certain theory of operation,
it is not necessary that the patentee should expressly describe this theory, nor indeed that he should at that time
clearly understand it."
We think that these views rest upon misconception.
The absence in the claims of a sand bed placed above the
zeolites does not imply that the zeolite bed is to be unconfined. The only normal inference from such silence is
either that it was deemed immaterial whether the zeolite
bed be locked or free, or that ifa free bed is preferable, it
was not claimed because it lacked novelty. The drawing
annexed to the specification, it is true, shows a layer of
sand or quartz at a point above the zeolites and an unoccupied space between it and the top of the zeolite bed.
But there is no suiggestion on the drawing or elsewhere
that the upper plate bearing the layer of sand or quartz
has any purpose except to serve as a mechanical 'filter
through which "the water to be softened may be first,
filtered," or that the unoccupied space .has any other purpose than that of similar spaces in- sand filters long
7

The court said: "The specification and drawing provide for.the

occasional descent into the zeolite-bed from above of a revolvig
stirrer, and this makes it clear that the top of the zeolite must be free
and unconfined, under the contemplation of these claims, like 1 and 5,
which do not imply the non-use of the stirrer." 13 F. (2d) 454, 458.
On the contrary, the drawing shows that a vertical movement of the
stirrer was not contemplated and that the arrangement of shaft alid
gear would prevent it. Moreover, the stirrer was not an element in
the combination claimed. It was not even an element in the filter
shown in the drawing and referred to in the specification "by way
of example." The specification states: "Fig. 2 is a similar, but fragmental, view of a modification carrying a stirring device; Fig. 3 is a
horizontal section of the same." Nor would the presence of the.stirrer
in any event be inconsistent with a confined bed. See 37 F. (2d) 385,
392.

66-.

OCTOBER TERM; 1931.
Opniof -theCour.:

284U.S.

familiar. Moreover, while drawings ma.y-be referred to
for illustrati6n and maay beIused as an'aid in interpieting
the specification or claim, they are of no"avail where th'ere
is an entire absence of description of the alleged invention
or a failure to claim it.' The statute requires the piatentee
not only to explain the principle -of his apparatus aid
to describe it in such iermisthat any- eison skilled in-.
the art to Which it appertains may construct aid use it'
after the expiration of the patent, but also to infoiii the
-public during the life of the patent of the limits of the
ronopoly asserted, -o that it may be knbwn which fea,tures may be safely usd 'or manufactured withb.ut a
license and'which may'.not.o The free bed. was neither
-described in the specification nor cldimed in either Claim
I'or Claim 51

Second. The further contention is that Claim .5 can be*
sustained on the grbund that, in: providing for "means
connected to the lowest point of the casing for removing
the salt solution," it introduced a novel eleiiht constituting invention, The, only novelty suggested is that
of placing,the means at the lowest point of the casing. It
does not require the exercise of the inventive faculty to
place atv the .bott6m of a receptacle the outlet through
which it is' to be drained, Smith v. Springdale Amusement
Park,283 U. S. I21, "123; Carbice Corp. v. American PatBSuch unoccupied space is exhibited in the- drawings annexed to
Jewel Patent No. 478,261; Bomnarius No. 519,565; Driesbach -No.
630,870; Bo~iiiarius-No. 632,091; and.Bachiman No. 678,532, all
relating to 6rdinary 1ilters, -and all introduced in evidence below.
-McCarty v. Lehigh Valley R,.Co., 160 U. S. 110, 116; Tinker v.
Wilber Eureka .Mower'&Reaper Mfg. Co., 1 Fed.. 138, 139; Gunn v.
Savage, 30 Fed. 366, 369; Windle v.Park§ & Woolson Machine Co.,
-134 Fed. 381, 384-5.ferril-v:.':eomans,94 U. S. 568, 573; Seymour Y. Osborne, 11'
Wall. 516, 541.
Compare Keystone Bridge Co..v. Phoenix Iron Co., 95 U. 8:274,
278;'AlexanderMilburn Co. v: Davs-Bournonville Co., 270-TU. S. 390,

401.

DE LAVAL. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
52

61

Argument. for PetitiQner.-

ents Development Co.,'-,283 U. S. 420, 421; Concrete
Appliances Co. v. Gomery, 269 U. S. 177,185.
Affirmed.
UNITED
DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. v.U
STATES.
URT OF. CLAIMS.'
CERTIORARI TO THE COI

No. 6. Argued October 16, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
"Pursuant. to the Act of June 15, 1917, empowering the President
to . . I cancel, or requisition any existing or future contract for
the building, production, orpurchse of ships or material," th6 Government took over by requisition the purchasers' rights-in certain
private contracts for the manufacture and sale of marine steam
turbines. Before the contracts were performed, it canceled them.
1. That' the manufacturir -was entitled to just compensation, as
for property taken by eminent doinin, not to -damages. as for
breach cf contract. .P.,70.
2. Just compensation is thp value of-the coitracts at the time of
their cancellation. P. 72.
3. It does not-include an allowance of. anticipated profits. , Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 514. Pp. 70-72.
4. The fact "that the contracts,- if carried out, would have beenpro.fitable, must be given proper weight in determining just compensation. P. 70.
5. The Act cited applies expressly to contracts made'before its
passage. P.73....
6. Such, contracts are entered- into subject to future exertion of
.the power of eminent domain. Id.
70 Ct. Cls. 51, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 283 U. S. 814, to review a judgment fixing
compensation for contracts requisitioned and afterwards

canceled by the Government..-

....

Mr. John Spalding Planne'y, with whom Messrs.
George C. Holtoj(George F. Losche, and Frnk F, Nesbit
were on the brief, for petitioner,

-

