BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
415

421

Syllabus.

We do not think this custom warrahts-a disregard of the
proved facts, and the adoption of an artificial classification
of the locomotive as one in service at the timer of respondent's injury. The judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent

with this opinion.
Reveised.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

Nos. 200 and 201. Argued' January 5, 6, 1932.-Decided February
15, 1932.
1. A citizen of the United States residing in a foreign country continues to owe allegiance to the United States and is bound by its
laws. made applicable to his situation. P. 436.
2. The power to require the return of absent citiiens in the public
interest is inherent in sovereignty;* and what in England was the
sovereign prerogative in this respect, pertains, under our constitutional system, to the-national authority,'exercisable by Congress, to
prescribe the duties of the citizens of the United States. P. 437.
3. One of the duties of such absent citizens to the United States is that
of attending its courts to give testimony when properly summoned;
and Congress may provide for. the performance of this duty and
prescribe penalties for disobedience. P. 438.
4. Questions of authority in such cases are not questions of international law, but of municipal law. P. 437. 5. The Act of July 3, 1926, provides that when the testimony of a'
citizen of the United States residing in a ,foreign country is needed
by the Government in a criminal -case, the court in which the case
is pending may issue a, subpcefia to be served upon him personally
by an American consulhwith a tender of money to cover his necessary expenses of travel to and from, and attendance upon', the
court; that if he refuse or 'neglect to appear as difected'by the
*-subpcena, the same dourt, upon probf of service and default, may
issue its order directing him to appear before it at a designated
time to show cause why he should not be adjudged guilty of con-

OCTOBER TERTM, 193i.
"Syllabus.

284 U. S.

tempt and be punished; that this order may. direct that property -6f
the witness in the United States be seized and held to satisfy any
judgment that may be rendered in the contempt proceeding; that
after such seizure the order to show' cause and, for sequestration
shall be served on the witness personally by such consul and shall
be published in some-newspaper of general circulation in the district
where the court sits; and that on the return day of the order, or
later, proof shall be taken, and if the charge of recusancy shall be
sustained, the court shall adjudge the witness guilty of contempt
and impose upon him a fine not exceeding $100,000, which, with the
costs, may be satisfied by sale of the property levied upon, to be
conducted upon notice and in the manner provided for sales upon
execution. In contempt proceedings for failure to obey subpoenas,
held:
(1) The absent witness- is bound with notice of the statute.
P. 438.
(2) The method provided by the Act for acquiring judicial jurisdiction to render a, personal judgment includes due notice and
opportunity to be heard and- satisfies the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. Pp. 438, 439.
(3) Service of the subpoena in a foreign country invades no right
of the foreign government, and the citizen has no standing to invoke
such supposed'right. P. 439.
(4) The function of a consul in serving the subpoena and the
order to show cause, is merely that of an agent of the Government
for conveying actual notice to one of its citizens; it need not be
sanctioned by a treaty. Pp.. 439, 440.
,(5) In criminal contempt proceedings, due-process does not
require that the respondent be present at the hearing and adjudication if he was duly notified and had adequate opportunity to appear
and be heard. P. 440.
. (6) The contempt proceeding being valid, the provisional remedy
of seizing and applying property to secure payment of the penalty
is also constitutional. P. 441.
(7) Th'e fact that enforcement of the penalty may depend on
seizure of property does not imply unconstitutional discrimination
between those contumacious absentee witnesses who have property
-in this country and those who have not. Id.
(8) A provisional or final levy on property, as provided in the
statute, to satisfy liability of the owner,, is not an unreasonable
search and-seizure. Id.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
421

423

Statement of the Case.

(9) The question whether the statute grants the right to subpoena foreign residents in criminal cases to the Government only,
and thereby violates the provision of the Sixth Amendment guaraiiteeing accused persons compulsory process for witnesses, will not
be considered at the instance of a recalcitrant witness. P. 442:
(10) Where the subpoena served was issued at the request of the
Government upon a statement as to the materiality and importance
of the expectedtestimony sufficient to give the court jurisdiction to
issue it, it binds the witness unless set aside upon proper petition,
and the question whether the showing was otherwise sufficient can
not be raised in defense against proceedings to punish.his disobedience as contempt. Id.
(11) It is not necessary that the subpcena issued under the statute show on its face that itwas so isued. Id.
(12) Where a witness has been served with subpoena, under the
statute, and has defaulted, service of an order directing him to
show cause, at a time and place stated, why he should not be adjudged guilty of contempt, and providing for seizure of his property
to be.held to satisfy any judgment that may-be rendered against
him in the proceeding, affords notice sufficient to inform him of the
character of the charge and of the hearing at which he will have
opportunity to present his defense. P. 443.
(13) Where two subpcenas are issued for appearances at different
times, a seizure of property in connection with the first is n6t
vacated by the seizure of the same property in connection with the
second. Id.
(14) A witness subpoenaed to attend on a day named, and not to
depart the court without leave of the court or the district attorney,
can not excuse his refusal to come upon the ground that the trial
did not begin on the day specified in the writ but on a later day to
which the case was continued. Id.
60 App. D. C.141; 49 F. (2d) 523, affirmed
CERTIORARI * to review decrees sustaining fines imposed
on the petitioner Blackmer as punishment for contemptuous disobedience of two subpcenas in a crininal case.
The judgments' provided that the fines be satisfied out of
property seized after the subpcenas were served.
*

See table of ca.ses reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

284 U. S.

Messrs. George Gordon Battle and Karl C. Schuyler,
with'whom Messrs. Eugene D: Millikin, Frederick DeC.
Faust, and Charles F. Wilson were on thebrief for petitioner.
The laws of Congress cannot outreach the Constitution,
Hodgson'. Bowerbank, 5 Cranch 303; Downes v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 244; Dorr v. United States,195 U. S.138. This
nation isan equal sovereignty, which, in the absence of
treaty, can not exercise power extraterritorially The Exchange v. McFaddon, 7 Cranch 116;. Cooley's Const. Lim.,
8th ed., vol. 1, pp. 3, 4.
The prohibition against extraterritorial exercise of judicial, power applies to the States of the United States,
whether the attempt be against a citizen of the State or
an absent nonresident. McDonald v. Mabee, .243 U. S.
'90; Cooper v. Reynolds, 10-Wall. 308, reaffirmed in Pennoyer'v. Neff, 95 U. S.714; Galpinv. Page, 18 Wall. 350;
Minder v. Georgia, 183 U. S. 559; Harkness v. Hyde, 98
U. S. 476; Wilson v. Seligman, 144 U. S. 41; Bischoff v.
Wethered, 9 Wall. 812; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398;
Freeman v. Alderson, 119 U. S.185; Overby v. Gordon,
177 U. S.214; Brown v. Fletcher's Estate, 210 U. S.82;
Michigan Trust Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S. 346; Baker Y.
Baker, 242 U. S.394.
The prohibition applies to our federal courts in favor of
absent citizens of the United States, whether abroad or
absent from a particular district. Toland v. Sprague, 12
Pet. 300; Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason 35; Robertson v.
Labor Board, 268 U. S.619. It is Applied by this nation
to other nati6ns attempting, in the ab enice of treaty, to
exercise judicial power here over their own citizens. Glass
v. The Betsey, 3 Dall. 6. It ajplies io the Government
as well as -to privafe suitors. Robertson'v. Labor Board,
268 U. S.619, 623.

BLACKIMIER v. UNITED STATES.
421

Argument for Petitioner.

Jurisdiction in personam is" acquired" either by voluntary appearance or by service on the p.erson within the
territorial jurisdiction of the court. [Citing many cases.]
It follows that the extraterritorial service is invalid and
violates due process. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714..
The subpcena.being invalid, the court was without jurisdiction and the order punishing for .contempt was void.
Ex parte Fiske, 113 U. S. 713. See also United States v.
Shipp, 203 U. S. 563; Ex parte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604;
In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200.
*Allegiance as a doctrine to destroy territorial limits on
the exercise of power, was repudiated- by this Court.
McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. -90. Cf. Michigan Trust'
Co. v. Ferry,228 T. S. 346; Ex parte Indiana Transportation Co., 244 U. S. 456. United States v. Bowman, 260
U. S. 94; United States v. Bennett, 232 U. S. 299, and
Cook v. Tait, 265 U. S. 47, dealt with laws that did not
pretend to authorize the exercise of extraterritorial power
by our Government.
The ancient power of the English Crown fo recall subjects is not important here, for the reason that, at and
before the time of the first Judiciary. Act, under American
common law, jurisdiction in personam could be acquired
only by appearance or by service at a place where the
serving officer had authority to execute a summons.
Robertson v. Labor Board, 268 U. S. 619. The right to
recall is an executive or legislative function; it has never
been claimed as a judicial right, and:hehce Congress could
not confer it upon the federal judiciary. The Crown procedure in the ancient English cases,--indeed, the pro: cedure in the case at bar,-savors of outlawry. The.English common law doctrine of outlawry, and that of the
continental systems as to "civil death,! violate the fundamental rights of the citizen. Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S.
409, 444..
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

284 U. S..

Congress has no power to authorize United States consuls to serve subpcenas and orders to show cause. In re
Ross, 140 U. S.453, 462; Dainese v. Hale, 91 U. S. 13.
Under international law consuls have no power except
that conferred by treaty. A nation can not send its officers into other countries even to "round up" absent citizens for return to war service. Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall.
610.
The Act does not provide a valid method of acquiring
judicial jurisdiction to render personal judgment against
defendant and judgment against his property. Jurisdiction to punish is sought to be acquired by quasi in rem
The action is in fact in personam. The
procedur6.
charge is "recusancy "; the issue, therefore, is whether
defendant is guilty or not guilty of "recusancy"; the
trial is exclusively confined .to that issue; the judgment is
guilty or not guilty of contempt, with fine, if guilty, to be
satisfied, if not paid, out of defendant's attached property.
It is a personal criminal offense-criminal contempt of
court. Mchaelson v. -United States, 262 U. S. 42, 66,
67. There is no -charge, issue, trial or judgment :as to
"offending property." It is not until after the trial has
been completed, and until after the personal judgment
has been decreed, that the fine is ordered satisfied out of
the attached property.
Quasi in rem methods of acquiring jurisdiction in personam violate due process. - Pennoyer v. Neff, 95. U. S.
714. No part of the judgment resulting from quasi in
.rem procedure may stand as an unsatisfied judgment in
personam against defendant.
In federal courts attachment is bit an incident to a
suit, and unless the court acquires jurisdiction over the
person of the defendant by appearance or serVice of
process within the couirt's territori.al jurisdiction, the attachment must fall. "-Tolandv. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300,. 329;

BLACKIMER'v. UNITED STATES.
421

Argument for Petitioner.

Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason 35; Big Vein Coal Co. v. Read,
229 U. S. 31; Laborde v. Ubarri,214 U. S. 173.
If there is no jurisdiction to render the personal judgment of guilty of contempt, it follows that there is no
jurisdiction to sequester or sell the property, for those
steps are entirely dependent upon the right to proceed to
judgment on the issue of "recusancy."
The Act does not require actual, or any other, notice
to defendant of the offense, or of the Government's claim
against his property; hence it violates due process.
The search and seizure of property authorized by the
Act is unreasonable and in violation of the Fourth Amendment.
The provisions for hearing and judgment in the entire
absence of the accused and without his consent, violate
due process.
Criminal contempt of.court is a criminal offense. Ex
parte Grossman, 267 U. S. 87; Michaelson v. United
States, 266 U. S. 42, 66-67. At some stage, the court
must have jurisdiction in personam. Ex parte Terry, 128
U. S. 289.
But the Act authorizes punitive procedure against defendants who were beyond the jurisdiction of the United
States when the alleged- offense was committed; who
were not subsequently attached, or served with summons,
within the United States; who have never appeared in
the court room; who have never pleaded to the charge,
nor consented to proceedings in their absence; who have
never received notice of an offense.
By excluding defendants in criminal prosecutions from
the right to extraterritorial subpoenas, the Act violates
the Sixth Amendment.
The Act is arbitrary, capricious and unreasonable. It
makes the ownership of "non-offending" property a condition precedent to judgment of guilt of crime. It can

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

284 U.-S.

have no purpose, aside from its special motive, other than
to secure testimony wlich -the poor may have 'to give
aswell'as the rich. But it does-not apply to..rich- and
poor alike.
-The attachment'Is made despite the fact that under the
Act the propertycan not be " offending "; it is made prior
to trial and therefore prior to the time'when the fine can
possibly be estimated, unless we -assume that -the court
may act on 'hearsay, or on preconceived notions, or on ex
parte advice.
In view of the presumption of innocence, the possibility
of proved innocence, of highly mitigatory defense, of guilt
without mitigationi there can not possibly be a reasonable relationship between the authorized unlimited attachment and *the result of the trial.
The procedure against petitioner violates due process
under the Fifth Amendment in each of the following respects: (a) The subpcenas, not having issued upon proper
showing, were invalid, and therefore all subsequeht proceedings-were invalid; (b) thQ omission from the subpcenas (not otherwise supplied) of notice that they issued
under the Act,_ deprived them of compulsory effect, and,
therefore, deprived the court below of jurisdiction to punisfl,
failure to obey; (c) petitioner did not receive notice
of any offense or of facts constituting the Government's
claim against his property; (d) levy and seizure of petitioner's property in: the first case was abandoned by the
Government, and, therefore, jurisdiction of his person and
property was abandoned, and all proceedings in that case
subsequdut to issuance of the order to show cause are null;
(e) :petitioner was not subpcenaed to attend the trial court
-on April 9, 1928, and henbe all proceedings in the second
case arifing out of his failure to appear on that date are
null.

BLACKMER V. UNITED STATES.
421

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Atlee Pomerene, with whom Messrs. Leo A. Rover;
United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, and
Frank Harrison were on the brief, for the United States.
Every citizen owes the duty.of allegiance to the United
States. Carlislev. United.States, 16 Wall. 147;,Minor v.
Happjersett, 21 Wall. 162; Luria v. United States, 231
U. S. 9; Miller, Const., pp. 294, 295.
The United States has extraterritorial jurisdiction over
its citizens. Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch 2.41; The Apollon,
9 Wheat. 362; The Resolution, 2 Dall. 1; Willoughby,
Const., pp. 247, 248,'§§ 120, 121; Moore, Int. L. Dig., vol.
II, pp. 255, 256; Hyde, Int. Law, vol. I, p. 424; Columbia
L. Rev., vol. 27, p. 204; Cook v. Tait, 265 U. S. 47; United
States v. Bennett, 232 U. S. 299; United States v.. Bowman, 260 U. S. 94.
Independent nations generally have the right to recall
their citizens. The United States is not less favored.
Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545,: 558-559;
MeGrainv. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135.
The recall of a citizen to bear arms is appropriate to
carrying into execution the power of the Congress to
raise and support armies. Likewise, 'the recall of a citizen. for the purpose of giving testimony in a case pending
in court, is appropriate to the power of the Congress to
constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court.
The power to recall citizens was recognized by the
framers of our Constitution as inhering in the legislative
branch. Jefferson's draft for Va. Const., quoted by McReynolds, 5., (diss.) in Myers v. United States, 272 U. S.
5., at p. 235;. Federalist, No. xlviii.
Congress can delegate this power to the judiciary.
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 694; Ex parte Bakelite Corp.,
279 U. S.438; Inre Chapman, 166.U.S. 661.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

284 U. S.

The duty of allegiance is a sufficient basis for jurisdic:
tion in personam. Lauria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9;
United States v. Knight, 291 Fed. 129, 131, affirmed, 299
Fed. 571; Thompson v. Thompson, 226 U. S. 551, 562;
Beale, Conflict of Laws, in proposed final draft No. 1,
Am. L. Inst., § 82; 27 Harv. L. Rev., pp. 464 to 466; 41
id., p. 1067; 30 Mich. L. Rev, pp. 137 to 142, and many
other cases and text books.
The notice of recall necessary to due process as a -prerequisite to punishment for disobedience may be served
abroad. - Bartue and -Duchess of Suffolk, 2 Dyer's Rep.
176b; 73 Eng. Rep. 388; Knowles v. Luce, Moore 109;
72 Eng. Rep. 473; Perez v. Fernandez, 220 U. S. 224;
Mellen-v. Malleable Iron Wks., 131 U. S. 352; Luria v.
United States, 231 U. S. 9; Douglas v. Forrest, 4 Bing.
686; Cowan v. Braidwood,.9 Dow. P. C. 26, 33-7; General
Steam Nay. Co. v. Guillou, 11 M. & W. 877, 894. Distinguishing McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90.
Substituted service by leaving summons at last place
of abode is sufficient for a judgment in personam against
an absent citizen. McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90;
s. c., 107 Tex. 139, 173, 174; Langdon v. Doud,. 88 Mass.
423, 435; Henderson v. Staniford, 105 Mass. 504, 505;
Nichols v. Vaughan, 217 Mass. 548; Hess v. Pawloski, 274
U. S. 352, 355; Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U. S. 13; Gilbert
v. Burnstine, 255 N. Y. 348. Citizenship supports jurisdiction in personam upon extraterritorial personal service
only. In re Hendrickson, 167 N. W. Rep. 172; De La
Montanya v. De La Montanya, 44 Pac. 345; Raher v.
Raher, 150 Iowa 511; 35 L. R. A. (N. S.) 297.
Nonresident cases affecting aliens cited by appellant
are not in point.
If the necessary statutory authority has been given
to the court, and to the executive or administrative
officers who are to carry out its orders, witnesses may be

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
421

431

Argument for the United States.

subpoenaed from anywhere if they rest under the obligation to obey the laws.
The act of serving a subpoena is a ministerial act of
giving notice and not an exercise of " jurisdidtion." It is
the issuance and not the service that is the exercise
of jurisdiction, except in so far as the service is necessary
to due process, and hence to the jurisdiction of tihe court to
render a valid judgment, and not in the international
law sense. But when the duty pre-exists, the process, no
matter what its form may be, is a mere notice.
We admit that the issuance of the subpoena by the
court is an assertion of power. The order issuing the
subpoena is a judicial act in conformity with the Walsh
Act. A process is deemed issued when ordered by the
court and ready for service. McIntosh v. Standard Oil
'Co., 236 N. W. 152; Society v. Whitcomb, 2 N. H. 227;
Smith. v. Nicholson, 5 N. D. 426. The service of the
subpoena is simply notice ,hat the power has been exercised. \ The giving of notice thereof by, the consul to a
citizen abroad does not offend international law.
Service by a consul is valid even if no treaty deals with
the subject. If the United States has the power and
right to send a messenger to France to deliver the subpoena without a treaty with France, then there is nothing
within or without the scole of international law that
requires a treaty before the United States can use one of
its consuls for that service.
Even if the manner of serving the subpoena were contrary to international law or French law, the Walsh Act
would not be unconstitutional.
The Walsh Act does not limit enforcement to quasi in
rem procedure and these cases at bar were not entirely
quasi in rem.
"Criminal" contempt proceedings are sui generis and
not, strictly, criminal prosecutions. Due process therein

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

284 U. S.

is satisfied under the Walsh Act. -Gompers v. Bucks Stove
& Range Co., 221 U. S. 418; s. c. 33 App. D.- 0.516; Re
Gompers, 40 App. D. C. 293; Gompers v. United States,
233 U. -S.
604; Ex parte Hudgings, 249 U. S. 378; Myers
v. United States, 264 U. S. 95; United States v. Zucker,
161 U. S. 475; Michaelson v. United States, 266 U' S. 42;
Ex parte Grossman, 267 U. S. 87; Cooke v. United States,
267 U. S. 517; In re Savin, 131 U. S. 267; Schwartz-v.
United States, 217 Fed. 866; Armstrong v. United States,
18 F. (2d) 371, and other cases. The " essential nature"
of punishment for contempt is penal, not , criminal.
Congress may authorize federal courts to use quasi in
rei procedure to acquire jurisdiction.
Service by publication in actions quasi in rem is sufficient for due process. Central Loan d Tr. Co.v. Campbell Co., 173 U. S. 84; Security Savings Bank v. California,
263 U. S. 282; Missouri v. North, 271 U. S. 40, and citing
many other cases.
Service of the "'order to show cause" is sufficient notice
of the offense to-afford due'process.
No unreasonable search and seizure is authorized by the

Act.
Holding the hearing and pronouncing judgifent in the
absence of petitioner did not violate'due process.'
The Act, does not violate the right of an accused to compulsory process for obtaining witnesses. The petitioner
is not entitled to raise the point.
The Sixth Amendment does not require that the accused in' the"criminal, prosecution have equal compulsory
process with the process available to the-Government.
United Statesv. Reid, 12 How. 36L There are'a number
of respects in which- a person accused of crime -has a less
right to compulsory process than that accorded, to the
Government: The accused in the' cr'nainal case has substantially eqtial' process.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
421

Opinion of the Court.

The Walsh Act is not arbitrary, capricious; or unreasonable, and does not deny due process.
MR. CHIF JUSTcC
the Court.

HuGES delivered the opinion of

The petitioner, Harry M. Blackmer, a citizen of the
United States resident in Paris, France, was adjudged
guilty of contempt of the Supreme Court of the District.
of Columbia for failure to respond to subpoenas served
upon him in France and requiring him to appear as a
witness on'behalf of the United States at a criminal trial
in that court. Two subpcenas were issued, for -appearances at different times, and there was a separate proceeding with respect to each. The two cases were heard together, and a fine, of $30,000 with costs was imposed in
each case, to be satisfied out of the property of the petitioner which had been seized by order of the court. The
decrees were affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the
District, 49 F. (2d) 523, and this Court granted writs
of certiorari.
The subpcenas were issued and served, and the proceedings to punish for contempt were taken, under the provisions of the Act of July 3, 1926, c. 762, 44 Stat. 835,
U. S. C., Tit. 28, §§ 711-71V8
The statute provides that
'The Act is as follows: "Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of. the' United States of America in Congress assembled, That whenever letters rogatory shall issue out of any court of
the United States, either with or without interrogatories addressed to
any court of any foreign country, to take the testimony of any witness,
being a citizen of the United States or domiciled therein, and such
witness, having been personally notified by it according to the practice
of such court, to appear and testify pursuant to such letters rogatory
and such witness shall'neglect to appear, or havind appeared shall
decline, refuse, or neglect' t6 answer to any questioi" which iiayr be
propounded td him by or under the auth6rity of such court, t6 which
hewould be required to make answer we're lie being examined before
85912* 32_-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

whenever the attendance at the trial of a criminal action
of a witness abroad, who is "a citizen of the United States
or domiciled therein," is desired by the Attorney General,
or any assistant or district attorney acting under him,
the judge of the court in which the action is pending may
order a subpcena to issue, to be addressed to a consul
of the United States and to be served by him personally
'the court issuing such letters, the cpurt out of which said letters
issued may upon proper showing order that a subpoena issue addressed
to any consul of the United States within any country in which such
witness may be, commanding such witness to appear before the said
court at a time and place therein designated.
"Sec. 2. Whenever the attendance at the trial of any criminal
action of a witness, being a citizen of the United States or domiciled
therein, who is beyond the jurisdiction of the United States, is desired
by the Attorney General or any assistant or district attorney acting
under him, the judge of the court before which such action is pending,
or who is to sit in the trial of the same, may, upon proper showing,
order that a subpcena issue, addressed to any consul of the United
States within any country in which such witness may be, commanding
such witness to appear before the said court -at a time and place
therein designated.
"Sec. 3. It shall be the duty of any consul of the United States
within any country in which such witness may be at the request of
the clerk of the court issuing any subpoena. under this Act or at the
request of the officer causing such subpoena to be issued, to serve the
same personally upon such witness and also to serve any orders to
show cause, rules, judgments, or decrees when requested by the court
or United States marshal, and to make a return thereof to the court
out of which the same issued, first tendering to the witness the amount
of his iecessary expenses in traveling to and from the place at.which
the court sits and his attendance thereon, which amount shall be
determined by the judge on issuing the order for the subpona and
supplied to the consul making the service.
"Sec. 4. If the witness .oserved shall neglect or refuse to appear
as in such sibpcena directed, the court out of which it was issuil
shall, upon proof being made of the service and default, issue an order
directing the witness to appear before the court at a time in such
order (lesignatcdl to shov cause why he should not be adjudged guilty
of contempt and'be punished accordingly.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
421

Opinion of the Court.

upon the witness with a tender of travelling expenses.
§§ 2, 3. Upon proof of such service and of the failure
of the witness to appear, the court may make an order
requiring the witness to .show cause why he should not
be punished for contempt, and upon the issue of such an
order the court may direct that -propertybelonging to the
witness and within the United States may be seized and
held to satisfy any judgment which may be rendered
"Sec. 5. Upon issuing such order the court may, upon the giving
of security for any damages which the recusing witness may have suffered, should the charge be dismissed (except that no security shall
be required of the United States), direct as a part of such order that
the property of the recusing witness, at any place within the United
States, or so much thereof in value as the court may direct shall be
levied upon and seized by the marshal of said court in the manner
provided by law or the rule of the court for a levy or seizure under
execution, to be held to satisfy any judgment that may be rendered
against such witness in the proceeding so instituted.
"Sec. 6. The: marshal, having made such levy, shall thereupon forward to the consul of any country where the recusing witness may be
a copy of the order to show cause why such witness should not be
adjudged guilty of contempt with the request that said consul make
service of the same personally upon the recusing witness, and shall
cause to be published such order to show cause and for the sequestration of the property of such witness, in some newspaper of general

circulation in the district within which the court issuing such order
sits, once each week for six consecutive weeks.
"Sec. 7. On the return day of such order or any later day to which
the hearing may by the court be continued, proof shall be taken; and
if the charge of recusancy against the witness shall be sustained, the
court shall adjudge him guilty of contempt and, notwithstanding any
limitation upon the power of the court generally to punish for contempt, impose upon him a fine not exceeding $100,000 and direct that
the amount thereof, with the costs of the proceeding, be satisfied,
unless paid, by a sale of the property of the witness so seized or levied
upon, such sale to be conducted upon the notice required and in the
manner provided for sales upon- execution.

"See. 8. Any judgment rendered pursuant to this Act upon service by publication only may be opened for answer within the time and
in the manner provided in section 57 of the Judicial Code."

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

against him in the proceeding. §§ 4, 5. Provision is made
for personal service of the order upon the witness and
also,-for its publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the district where the court is sitting. § 6. 'If,
upon- the hearing, the charge is sustained, the court may
adjudge the witness guilty of contempt and, impose upon
him a fine not exceeding $100,000, to be satisfied by a sale
.of the property seized. § 7. This statute and the proceedings :against the petitioner are assailed as being repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
First. The principal objections to the statute are that
it violates the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. These contentions are (1) that the "Congress has
no power to authorize United States. consuls to serve process except as permitted by treaty "; (2) that the Act does
not provide "a valid method of acquiring judicial jurisdiction to render personal judgment against defendant and
judgment against his property "; (3) that the Act "does
not require actual or any other notice to defendant of
the offense or of the Government's claim against his property ",; (4) that the provisions "for hearing and judgment
in the entire absence- of the accused and without his consent" are invalid; and (5) that the Act is- "arbitrary,
capricious and unreasonable."
While it appears that the petitioner removed his residence to France in the year 1924, it'is undisputed that he
was, and continued to be, a citizen of the United States.
He continued to owe allegiance to the United States. By
virtue of -the obligations of citizenship, the United States
retained its authority over him, and he was bound by its
las made applicable to him in a foreign country. Thi',
aithough ,resident abroad, the petitioner remained subject to the taxing power of the United States;, Cook v.
Tait, 265 'U. S. 47, 54, 56:. -For disobedience.'to its laivs
through' conduct abroad he' W s subject' to punishmneilt
in the courts of the United'Statfs. UitedStetes v. Bow-

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
421

Oninion of the Court.

man, 260 U. S. 94, 102. With respect to such an exercise
of authority, there is no question of international law,'
but solely of the purpbrt of the municipal law which
establishes the duties of the citizen in relation to his own
government.' While the legislation of the Congress,
unless the contrary intent appears, is construed to apply
only within the territorial jurisdiction of the United
States, the question" of its application, so far as citizens
of the United States in foreign countries are concerned, is
one of construction, not of legislative power. American
Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347, 357;
United States v. Bowman, supra; Robertson v. Labor
Board, 268 U. S. 619, 622. Nor can it be doubted that
the United States -possesses the power inherent in sovereignty to require the return to this country of a citizen,
resident elsewhere, whenever the public interest requires
it, and to penalize him in case of refusal. Compare Bartue
and the Duchess of Suffolk's Case, 2 Dyer's Rep. 176b, 73.
Eng. Rep. 388; Knowles v. Luce, Moore 109, 72 Eng. Rep.473.V What in England was the prerogative of the soy2"The

law of Nations does not prevent a State from exercising

jurisdiction over its subjects travelling or residing abroad, since they
remain under its personal supremacy." Oppenheim, International
Law, 4th ed., vol. I, § 145, p. 281; Story, Conflict 'of Laws, 8th ed.,
§ 540, p. 755; Moore's International Lwv Digest, vol. H,-pp. 255, 256;
Hyde, International Law, vol. 1, § 240, p. 424; Borchard, Diplomatic
Protection of Citizens Abroad, § 13, pp.*21, 22.
3 Compare The Nereide, 9 Cranch 388, 422, 423; Rose v. .Timely,
4 Cranch 241, 279; The Apolon, 9 Wheat. 362, 370; Schib.by v.
Westenholz, L. R. 6 Q. B. 155, 161. Illustriations of acts uf the Con-

gress applicable" to citizens abroad are the provisions found in the
chapter of 'the Criminal Code relating to 'rOffenses against Operations

'of Government "(U. S. 0., Tit. 18, c. 4; United States v. Bowman,
260 U. S. 94, 98-102) and the provisions relating to criminal correspondence with foreign governments, Act of January 30, 1799, 1 Stat.
61, U_.S. C., Tit. 18, § 5.
4
See, also, Hyde, op. cit., vol. 1, § 381, pp. 668, 669.

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

ereign- in this respect, pertains under our constitutional
system to the national authority which may be xercised
by the Congress by virtue of the legislative power to
prescribe the duties of the citizens of the United States.
It is also beyond controversy that one of the duties which
the citizen, owes to his government is to support the administration of justice by attending its courts and giving
his testimony whenever he is properly summoned. Blair
v. United States, 250 U. S. 273, 281. And the Congress
may provide for the performance of this duty and- prescribe penalties for disobedience.
In the present instance, the question concerns only the
method of enforcing the obligation.' The jurisdiction of
the: United States over its absent citizen, so far as the
binding effect of its legislation is concerned, is a jurisdiction in personaim, as he is personally bound to take notice
of the laws that are. applicable to him and to obey them.
United States v. Bowman, supra. But, for the exercise
of judicial jurisdiction in personam, there must be due
process, which requires appropriate notice of the judicial
action and an opportunity to be heard. For this notice
and op'portunity the statute provides. The authority to
require the absent citizen to return and testify necessarily
implies the authority to give him notice of the requirement. As his attendance is needed in court, it is appropriate that the Congress should authorize the court to
direct the notice to be given and that it should be in the
customary form of a subpoena. Obviously, the requirement would be nugatory, if provision could not be made
for its communication to the witness in the foreign coun5

The instant case does not present the questions which arise in
cases where obligations inherent in allegiance are not. involved. See
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350, 369;
Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476, 478; Riverside & Dan River Cotton
Mills v. Menefee, 237 U. S. 189, 193; McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S.
90, 92; Wuchter v. Pizzutti, 276 U. S. 13.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

421

try. The efficacy of an attempt to provide constructive
service in this country would rest upon the presumption
that the notice would be given in a manner calculated to
reach the witness abroad. McD'onald v. Mabee, 243 U. S.
90, 92.. The question of the validity of the frovision for
actual service of the subpcena in a foreign country is one
that arises solely between the, Government of the United
States and the citizen. The mere giving of such a notice
to the citizen in the foreign country of the requirement of
his government that he shall return is in no sense an invasion of any right of the foreign government; and the
citizen has no standing to invoke any such supposed right.
While consular privileges in foreign countries are the appropriate subjects of- treaties,' it does not follow that
every act of a consul, as, e. g., in communicating with
citizens "of his own country, must be predicated upon a
specific provision of a treaty. The intercourse of friendly
nations, permitting travel and residence. of the citizens of
each in the territory of the other, presupposes and facilitates such communications. In selecting the consul for
the service of the subpcena, the Conigress merely prescribed a method deemed to assure the desired result but
in no sense essential. The consul was not'directed to perform any function involving consular privileges or depending upon any treaty relating to them, but simply to
act as any designated person might act for the Government in conveying to the citizen the actual notice of the
requirement of his attendance. The point raised by the
petitioner with respect to the provision for the service
the subpcena abroad is without merit.
of
I As
the Congress could define the obligation, it
could
prescribe a penalty to enforce it. And as the default lay
in disobedience to an authorized direction of the court, it
U. S.13, 15, 16; In re Ross, 140 U. S. 453,
See, also, U. S. C., Tit. 22, §§ 71 et seq.; Hyde, op. cit.,

6Cf. Dainesev.Hale, 91

462, 463.

§ 488, pp. 828-832.

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

constituted a contempt of court and the Congress could
provide for procedure appropriate in contempt cases.
The provision of the statute for punishment for contempt
is applicable only "upon proof being made of~the service
and default." § 4. That proof affords a proper basis for
the proceeding, and provision is made for personal service
upon the witness.of the order to show cause why he should
not be adjudged guilty. ,For the same reasons as those
which sustain the service of the subpoena, abroad, it was
competent to provide for the service of the order in like
manner. It is only after a hearing pursuant to the order
to show cause, and upon proof sustaining the charge, that
the court can impose the penaity. The petitioner urges
that the statute does not require notice of the offense, but
the order to show cause is to be issued after the witness
has failed to obey the subpcena demanding his attendance
and the order is to be made by the court before which he
was required to appear. This is sufficient to apprise the
witness of the nature of the proceeding and he has full
opportunity to be heard. The further contention is made
that, as the offense is a ,criminal'one, itis a violation of
due process to hold the hearing, and to proceed to judgment, inthe absence of the defendant. The argument misconstrues the nature of the proceeding. "While contempt
may be an offense against, the law-and subject to appropriate punishment, certain it is that since the foundation
of our government proceedings to punish such offenses
have been regarded as sui generis and not' criminal prose7cutions' within the Sixth Amendment or common :understanding." Myers v. United States; 264 U. S. 95, 104,
105. See, also, Bessette v. Conkey Co., 194 U. S.324,
336, 337; Michaelson v. United States, 266 U. S.42, 65,
66; Ex parte Grossman, 267 U. S.87, 117, 118. The requirement of due 1process in such a case is satisfied by suitable notice and adequate opportunity to appear and to be
heard. Cf. Cooke v. United States, 267 U. S.517, 537.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES..
421

Opinion of the Court

The authorization of the seizure of the property belonging to the defaulting witness and within the United
States, upon the issue of the order to show cause why he
should not be punished for contempt (§ 5), affords a
provisionalremedy, the propriety of which rests upon the
validity of the contempt proceeding. As the witness is
liable to punishment by fine if, upon the hearing, he is
found guilty of contempt, no reason appears why his
property may not be seized to provide security for the
payment of the penalty. The proceeding conforms to
familiar practice where absence or other circumstance
makes a provisional remedy appropriate. See Cooper v.
Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, 318. The order that is to be
served upon the witness' contains the direction for the
seizure. The property is to be held pending the hearing
and is to be applied to the satisfaction of the fine if imposed and unless it is paid. Given the obligation of the
witness to respond to the subpoena, the showing of his
default after service, and the validity of the provision
for a fine in case default is not excused, there is no basis
for objection to the seizure upon constitutional grounds.
The argument that the statute creates an unreasonable
classification is untenable. The disobedience of the defaulting witness to a lawful requirement of the court, and
not the fact that he owns property, is.the ground of his
liability. He is not the subject of unconstitutional discrimination simply because he has property which may
be approl~riated to the satisfaction of a lawful claim.
Second. What has already been said ,also disposes of
the contention that the statute provides for an unreasonable search and seizure in violation of the Fourth Amendment. It authorizes a levy upon property of the witness
at any place within the United States in the manner provided by law or rule of court for'levy or seizure- under
execution. A levy in such a manner, either provisionally

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1931
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

or finally, to satisfy the liability of the owner is not within
the constitutional. prohibition.
The petitioner raises the further and distinct point that
the statute limits the availability of the subpoena to the
Government, and that "by excluding defendants in criminal prosecutions" from the right to such a subpcena it
violates the provision of the Sixth Amendment that the
accused shall have "compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor." We need not consider whether the
statute requires the construction for which the petitioner
contends, as in any event the petitioner, a recalcitrant
witness, is not entitled to raise the question. Nelson v.
United States, 201 U. S. 92, 115; Southern Railway Co.
v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Jeffrey.Mbnufacturing Co. v.
Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576; Blair v. United States, supra,
at p. 282.
Third. The statute being valid, the question remains as
to the procedure in its application against the petitioner.
He insists that the showing for the issue of the subpoenas
requiring him to attend was inadequate. But the "proper
shoving ' required was for the purpose of satisfying the
court that the subpoena should issue. The petitions, in
the instant cases, were presented to the judge of the court,
by the official representatives of the Government and their
statement as to the materiality and importance of the
testimony expected from the witness was unquestionably
sufficient, to give the court jurisdiction to issue the subpcenas, and, unless they were vacated upon proper application, the petitioner was bound to obey. Nor was it
necessary that the subpoenas should "identify" themselves
with the statute under which they were issued. The petitioner as a citizen of the United States was chargeable
with knowledge of the law under which his attendance
as a witness could be required. It was sufficient that the
subpoenas required his attendance to testify on behalf
of the United States at the time and place. stated.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
421

Opinion of the Court.

Equally unavailing is the objection that after the petitioner
had refused to appear in response to the subpcenas, the
orders to show cause why he should not be punished for
contempt did not specify the offense. As the statute prescribed, he had been served with the subpcenas, and had
defaulted, and he had also been served with the order
which directed him to show cause why he should not be
adjudged guilty of contempt and provided for the seizure
of his property to be held to satisfy any judgment that
might be rendered against him in the proceeding. The
notice which he thus received was sufficient to inform him
of the character of the charge against him and of the
hearing at which he would have opportunity to present
his defense. The petitioner also insists that the seizure
which was made in case No. 200 was abandoned by virtue
of the seizure of the same property under the order issued
in No. 201. But the second levy was not antagonistic to
the first. The proceedings were consistent.
In No. 201, the contention is made that the petitioner
was subpcenaed to attend on April 2, 1928, and that the
case in which his testimony was desired was not tried
until April 9, 1928. There is no suggestion that the petitioner appeared on April 2, 1928, in compliance with the
subpcena, and the record shows that the case in which
he was subpcenaed was continued by the court until
,the later date. The subpcena contained the usual provision that the witness was "not to depart the court 'without leave of the court 6r district attorney." Cf. Rev.
Stat., § 877; U.. S. C., Tit. 28, § 655. It was the duty of
the petitioner to respond to the subpena and to remain
in attendance until excused by the court or by the Government's representatives.
Decrees affirmed.

AiR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

