OCTOBER TERM, 1931.

338

Syllabus.

284.U.s.

apply here. Nor does the ordinance attempt to make
hirers the agents or employees of the owners or to'make
the latter liable _or the negligence. of the former. It
merely requires the giving of security that lessees shall
"respond in damage for their own tortious acts." 123
0. S. 284; 175 N. E. 196. There is no showing that the
conditions imposed'are arbitrarily burdensome or that the
measure in any way operates to deprive appellants of
property without due process of law.
. There is nothing on the face of the ordinance or in the
evidence or findings below to warrant the conclusion that
the classification, § 65-1 b, is capricious, aibitrary or so
lacking in foundation as to contravene the equal protection clause. Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, 333.
Power Mfg. Co. v. Saunders, 274 U.: S. 400, 493. QuakerCity Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389, 400. The
record fails to show that the enforcement. of tFe ordinance
does or will substantially discriminate against the business
of iappellants. The claim of repugnancy to the equality
clause canniot be supported by mere speculation or conjecture.
Judgment affirmed.
,SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. KENTUCKY.*
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 300.

Argued December 4, 7, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.

1. The former decision of this Court (274 U. S. 76) respecting taxes
on additional intangible values attributed to part of the Kentucky
mileage of appellant's interstate railway system, and holding such
valuations to be so excessive and arbitrary as in reality to include
property outside of the State and result in violation of the due
*

Together with No. 301, Mellon, Director General of Railroads,

v. Kentucky.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
338

Opinion of the Court.

process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, was addressed to the
particular application of the taxing statute then under consideration; it did not preclude a retrial of the case upon an amended
petition of the State claiming the same amounts of tax but including in the re-computation additional and more lucrative Kentucky
mileage of the system. P. 341.
2. On this appeal it is not shown that, when attributed to the entire
Kentucky mileage of the railway system, the additional values are
so excessive and arbitrary as to amount to inclusion of property
outside of the State. Id.
3. A railway company is not relieved by any federal legislation from
the obligation to pay state taxes for years during which its system
was in. possession and control of the Director General under the
Federal Control Act, together ivith penalties imposed by the state
law for its failure to make reports of its property when required.
The State may secure payment of such taxes and penalties by a
judgment lien on the railroad properties. P. 342.
238 Ky. 638, affirmed.

APPEALS from a judgment which affirmed zi recovery by
the State in proceedings against the Railway Company
and the Director General of Railroads to collect taxes and
penalties.
Messrs. Edward P. Humphrey and Charles W. Milner,
with whom Messrs. L. E. Jeffries and S. R. Prince were
on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Charles N. Hobson argued the cause and Messrs.
J. W. Cammack, Attorney General of Kentucky, Clifford
.. Smith, and J. P. Hobson were on the brief, for ap-"
pellees..

MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case .involves franchise taxes imposed by Kentucky in respect of railroad lines in that State that are a
part of the system of appellant, the Southern Railway
Company, a Virginia corporation, and here referred to as
the Southern4 system. A judgment of the circuit court Of

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Woodford county affirmed in the highest court of the
State, 204 Ky. 388; 264 S. W. 850, determined that there
remained unpaid franchise taxes to be assessed on values
-of intangible elements amounting to $1,730,090.02 for
1918 and $3,028,592.62 for 1919. These additional values
were attributed solely to 127.63 miles of railroad. in that
State belonging to a. Kentucky corporation, the Southern Railway Company 'inKentucky. The lines of the
Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company.had been held to form a part of the system, but that
company paid taxes in Kentucky upon its tangible property and also franchise taxes calculated on thd basis of
its own net- earnings. The Commonwealth originally
made -noclaim against'appellanits for any taxes in respect
of that company's lines. This codrt7 274 U. S..76, rd:
versed the judgment of the't.te court on the. ground that
the additional yalues attrilbuted to such 127.63 miles were
so excessive and arbitrary as in-reality to include propertr -outside,Kentucky and that the enforcement by that
State of franchise taxes based thereon would violate the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
After receiving our opinion and mandate, the court
of appeals of Kentucky remanded the case to the circuit
court; and there the -Commonwealth amended its petition so as to claim, in addition to its earlier demands,
franchise taxes in respect of the Kentucky mileage of
the Cincinnati, New Orleans and, Texas Pacific. The
facts were stipulated. Appellants maintained below that
the proceedings were in conflict with our mandate and
that to enforce the taxes claimed would be to -tax property outside the Commonwealth. The court adjudged
the CommonWealth entitled to. reco-ver '"s to the Kentucky mileage of 'both, companies on the basis of the
same values that in the former judgment had been assigned to the line of the Southern Railway Company in
Kentucky alone. The court of appeals affirmed, 238

-

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
338

Opinion of the Court.

Ky. 638; 38 S. W. (2d) 696. This appeal is under 28
U. S. C., § 344 (a).
Our former decision merely held that the particlilar
application of the state statute then under consideration
was repugnant to the due process clause. The judgment
now before us is based on a different -claim. The remanding of the case by the court of appeals and the filing of
an amended petition in the circuit court by the Commonwealth and the trial thereon were not inconsistent
with the maiidate of this court. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Hill, 193 U. S. 551, 553. Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial
Court-267,U. S. 552,562.
The additipnal values adjudged are based on average
net earnings per mile of the system in the year preceding
that for ',which the franchise taxes are imposed.- As
shown in our former opinion, net -earnings of the 127.63
miles of the Southern Railway in Kentucky were very
small for 1917 and there was a large d6ficit in 1918. But
the net earnings per mile of the Cincinnati, New Orleans
and Texas Pacific, having 197.5 miles in Kentucky, for
both years were hight.whencompared with the average
of the system. The values on which the last mentioned
company separately paid franchise taxes were excluded.
The Kentucky mileage used in the calculations included certain trackage rights and also the Kentucky
lines of the Mobile & Ohio, the Cumberland Railroad and
the Cumberland Railway. The court of appeals held
that the lines of these three companies were not a part
of the system. 193 Kyp. 474, 481; 237 S. W. 11. But
the Commonwealth shows that, taking both years together, the additional values so arrived at are much less
than if the computation had been correctly made. The
error operates to the advantage of appellants: -They
have not shown, and but faintly claim, that when attributed to- the entire system mileage in Kentucky, the
additional values are so excessive or arbitrary as to

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

amount to the. inclusion of property outside the State..
'On'this record, it cannot be said that the enforcement of
franchise taxes on the basis of values establihed, by the
judgment would deprive appellants 6f their property in
violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The judgment requires that, in addition to the. taxes
levied for the two years, there shall be paia a penalty of
twenty per cent. on the taxes based on the omitted assessment, "which shall be collected' and accounted for as
other taxes.!' § 4241. Sevehty-five' pdr cent. of the
amount so added is for the compensation of officers prosecuting the action. The appellant company maintains that
it is not liable for the taxes or the penalty because during
1918 and 1919 the system was in the possession and control of the Director General. , Andthe latter says that the
enforcement of the penalty against him would violate the
Acts of Congress under which the railroads were taken
and operated.,
Neither contention can be sustained.
The opinion below shows that the property was not
assessed when it should have been because of the failure of
the company to report as required. It was not relieved
of that duty by any federal law. On the contrary the Act
of March 21, 1918, 40 Stat. 451, after requiring every
agreement for compensation -to the crriers to provide
that all. taxes during the period of federal control other
than certain war taxes should be paid out of. operating
reyenues, § 1, declared that nothing in the Act should be
zonstrued to amend, repeal, impair or affect the existing
laws or powers of the States in relation to taxation. . § 15.
Whatever may be the rights of the company as between it
and the Director General, .its obligations under state tax
laws remain unaffected by federal enactments.
Referring to the enforcement of the judgment, the court
of appeals said (238 Ky., p. 661; 38"S. W. (2d), p. 706):

AMERICAN HIDE & L. CO. v. U. 6.
338

343

Syllabus.

"The State cannot cornpel the government of the United
States to pay the taxes or the penalty, but it has a lien on
the property, which should have been assessed, to secure
payment of the taxes," and declared that the penalty is
not one where the element of punishment predominates.
Our decisions in MissouriPacific R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S.
554, and Norfolk-Southern R. Co. v. Owens, 256 U. S. 565,
cited by appellants do not apply here. The judgment, as
construed by the court of appeals, is a lien upon the railroad properties in respect of which the franchise taxes are
collected but does not require payment of the taxes or
-penalty by the Director General or the United States.

Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE STON-E took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

AMERICAN HIDE & LEATHER CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 62. Argied November 25, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. A corporation which, under the Revenue Act of- 1918, § 212 (b),
should have returned its income in .1918-1920 for its fiscal years
ending June 30, in accordance with its books of account, mistakenly
made returns.and payments for the calendar years. Throughout
the taxable periods, the total paymenti always exceeded the total
taxes due, computed, as the statute reijuired, on the basis of the
taxpayer's fiscal years. The right to recover the excess turned on
-whether or not it was paid for a period bringing. it within the
applicable period of limitation. Held:
(1) The object of the payment in each instance is defined by- .
the intention of-the taxpayer, to be ascertained from all relevant
facts, including his return. P. 3.47.
(2) Inasmuch as the return and payment. for 1918 disclose' an
intention to pay the tax on all inc'ome received during that calendak

