N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO. v. BEZUE.

415

Syllabus.

408

specified in the schedule in subdivision (c), and that if
actual duration of the temporary total disability does not
exceed such healing time then the applicable period specified in such schedule shall not be increased.
It ip clear, when the related parts of ยง 8 are considered
together, that Congress intended to distinguish between
temporary total disability (b), permanent partial disability due to the total loss of the -use of a member (c) (1),
and permanent partial disability due to the partial loss
of such use (c) (18) (19), and that its purpose was to require payments on account of the loss of earning capacity resulting from each. The language of (22) on which
petitioners rely, when taken in context and construed in
harmony with the purpose of the Act, means that the full
rate shall be allowed for the duration of the healing time
and that the proportionate rate shall apply to the balance of the established compensation period.
The decree will be modified so as to allow the full rate
of $24.04 for only 32 weeks and proportionate compensation of 40 per cent. for 282 weeks.
Modified Kand affirmed as modified.
NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD CO. v. BEZUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 263. Argued January 7, 1932.-Decided January 25, 1932.
1.A case is not within the Federal Employers' Liability Act unless
the remployee at the time of his injury was engaged in interstate
transportation or in work so closely related thereto as to be practically a part of it. Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R.' Co., 239
U. S. 556; Chicago & E. I. R. Co. v. Industrial Comm., qte,
p. 296. P. 420-

2. Whether repair work on a locomotive comes within this definition
must be determined, not by reference to the kind of plant in which
it was done nor by the kind of labor usually performed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

284 U.S.

employee, but by, whether .the locomotive at the time of the
.accident was in service in interstate transportation, or had been
taken out of it. P. 420.
3. The fact that the facilities of the yards wherb th employee was
at work at the time of the injury were used largely for servicing
and repairing locomotives engaged in interstate- commerce,' and
that he was engaged in a "plant service," is not sufficient to bring
him-within the Act. Pp. 419, 420.
4. A practice of the railroad company to send its locomotives to
another shop for so-called out-of-service repairs and to use the
shop in which the' injury occurred for mxonthly b6iler washings
and" incidental repaim can not overcome 'facts showing that the
locomotive in question was out of service at the time of the injury.
Pp 420, 421.
5. The employee, when injured, was engaged: in a terminal plant,
moving a pair of main driving wheels from a shop where they had
been repaired to a roundhouse where they were to be replaced
under a locomotive. The locomotive was one used for interstate
transp6rtation, ' wlich for nine days had been undergoing repairs in
connection with a boiler wash and was inert 'nd partly dismantled.
Held riot within the Act.
256 N. Y. 427, reversed.,
CERTIORAMRI, post, p. 604,. to review a judgment -of the
Supreme Court of New York, entered on remittitur from
the Court of Appeals,-which affirmed a judgment of the
Appellate Division, in an action in- damages for personal
injuries under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.

Mr. Edward R. Brumley, with whom Mr. John M. Gibbons was on the brief, for etitioner.
Mr. Thomas J. O'Neill, with whom Mr. Charles D.
Lewis was on the brief, f6r regpondent.
Respondent at the time of his injury was an essential
employee in an interstate transportation service plant,
and then and at all times was engaged in servicing and
maintaining interstate locomotives. Therefore his -work
was an essential part of interstate transportation. Shanks
v. Delaware, k. & W. R. ,Co., 239 U. S. 556; Chicago &

N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO. v. BEZUE.

417

Opinion of the Court.

415

N. W. tRy. Co.v. Bolle, 284 U. S. 74; New York Cent. R.
Co. v. Marcone, 281 U. S. 345; Illonardo v,Erie R. Co.,
103 N. J. L.4; Salvo v. New York Cent. R. Co., 216 App.
Div. 592; Erie R. Co. v, Collins, 253 U. S.77; St. Louis R.
Co. v; Seale, 229 U. S. 156; Erie R. Co.v. Winfield, 244
U. S. 170; Knowles v. New Yoik, N. H. & H. R. Co., 223
N. Y. 513.
At the time of his injury he was working on*an interstate transportation instrumentality not withdrawn from
service, and therefore the Federal Act applies. Lusk v.
Bandy, 76 Okla. 108; Industrial Comm. v. Dafis, 259
U. S.188; Oglesby v. St. Louis, S. F. R. Co., 318 Mo. 79;
277 U. S. 587; Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v. Winters,
242 U. S. 353; Davis v. Akins, 109 Kan. 474; certiorari
denied, 257 U. S. 658.
MR. JusTimE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The respondent was injured while in the employ of petitioner, an interstate carrier. He brought suit under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act in the Supreme Court.of
New York and recov*ered a judgment which was affirmed
by the Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals.1
Petitioner urges that at the time of respondent's injury his
work was not in interstate commerce within the intendment of the statute.
At Maybrook, New York, the westerly. terminus of a
branch of the railroad, petitioner maintains a roundhouse,
a machine shop, a carpenter shop, and a so-called hoist
bulilding containing four 'tracks with two pits, a hoist of
large capacity for raising engines, a lathe for repairing
driving wheels, apparatus for electric welding, tool room,
and electrical shop. These facilities are used largely for
1232 N. Y. App. Div. 840, 248 N. Y. S. 926; 256 N.

N. E.828.
85912q-32-27

Y 4271170

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

servicing and repairing locomotives engaged in interstate
transportation. The respondent had been employed at
this terminal for about L,year,.at first as an engine wiper;
later, and at the time of the accident, as a member of a
general unskilled labor gang. His principal work was the
operation of an electric truck with which he transported
materials from one portion of the plant to another. By
means of this truck, and sometimes without it, he was
accustomed to assist in various minor repairs 'to locomotives brought into the terminal, such as lifting driving
rods, pumps, journal boxes, draw bars, assisting in greasing, or greasing, engines, and other work of a similar
nature., On the morning 6f September 2, 1929, he was not
using the truck, but pursuant to an order of the -foreman
of the gang joined other workmen in removing a pair of
main driving wheels from a lathe in the hoist building and
rolling t em along the tracks in the yard to an engine pit
where they were to be installed in a locomotive which
had arrived at the terminal August 23, ard had been set
aside for the customary boiler-wash given all engines
every thirty days. Preparatory io -theboiler-wash an inspection was made and orders were issued for certain
work, which included the removal of the main driving
wheels and shifting them to the hoist shop so that the
journal might be turned, the transfer of several parts to
the machine shop, the separation of the jacket from the
fire-box, the replacement of some four hundred seventeen
leaking bolts, the renewal of bushings, and other items
requiring skilled labor. The fire was dumped, the main
driving wheels and other portions needing attention were
removed, and the engine was left inert and incapable of
locomotion.
The boiler-wash and repairs consumed twelve days.
On the ninth day, the turning of the journal on the main
drivers having been complefed, the respondent, on orders
of his foreman, joined others of the unskilled labor gang

N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO. v. BEZUE.
415

419

Opinion of the Court.

in removing the main driving wheels from the lathe inthe hoist shop, placing them upon a track, and pushing
them by hand to the turntable, which was then connected
with another track onto which the men pushed the wheels
preparatory to moving them to a pit in the roundhouse
where they could be placed under the locomotive. During this work respondent was injured, as has been found,
by the negligence of the foreman in removing a block
from under the wheels.
The state court held that the terminal facilities in which
respondent worked constitute a part of the railroad's system necessary to the operation of the road and to the conduct of interstate commerce; that the fact that some work
is there done on locomotives engaged in intrastate commerce does not deprive the establishment of its. character
as an essential instrumentality of interstate commerce;
that the respondent wa engaged in a "plant service,"
and worked indiscriminately upon engines engaged in
interstate and intrastate commerce. The conclusion was
that the nature and purpose of the plant warranted characterization of all respondent's work, of whatever nature,
as in interstate commerce.
The test thus applied is broader than our decisions
justify. All work performed in railroad employment
may, in a sense, be said to be necessary to the operation
of the road. - The business could not be conducted without repair shop employees, clerks, janitors, mechanics,
and those who operate all manner of appliances not directly or intimately cbncerned with interstate transportation as such, or with facilities actually used therein.
But we have held that the mere fact of employment does
not bring such employees within the Act. Delaware, L.
& W. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439; Chicago, B. &
Q. R. Co. v. Harrington,241 U. S. 177; Illinois CentralR.
Co. v. Cousins, 241 U. S. 641; New York Central R. Co. v.
White, 243 U. S. 188, 192; Industrial Accident Comm. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion ofthe Court.

284 U.S.

Davis, 259 U. S. 182, 187; Chicago & N. W. By. Co. v.
Bolle, ante, p. 74.
The criterion of applicability of the statute is the employee's occupation at the time of his injury in interstate
transportation or work so closely related:thereto as to be
practically a part of it.. Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R.
Co., 239 U. S. 556, 558; Chicago & E; I. R. Co. v. Industrial Comm., ante, p.296. Underthecrcunmstancesof this
case, whether respondent is within the Act must-be decided not by reference to the kind, of plant in which he
worked, ot the character of labor he usually performed,
but by determining whether. the locomotive in question
was, at the time of the accident, in use in interstate trans-.
portation or had been taken out-of it& The length of the
period during which the locomotive was withdrawn from
service and the extent of the repairs bring the case within
the principle announced in IndustrialAccident Comm. v.
Davis, supra,and Minnedpolis & St. Louis R. Co. v. Win-ters, 242 U. S. 353, stamp the engine as no longer an instrumentality of or intimately connected with interstate
activity, and distinguish such cases as New York Cent. R.
Co. v. Marcone,281 U. S. 345, where the injured employee
was oiling a locomotive which had shortly-before entered
the roundhouse after completing an interstate run.
Respondent endeavors to support the claim that here

the instrumentality had not been taken out of interstate
commerce, by reference to the practice of petitioner,which
is that work, sometimes greater and often less Inamount
than 'in
this case, is done at Maybrook in connection with
the monthly boiler-wash; whereas after a locomotive has
run thirty-five thousand miles, or eighteefi months, it is
marked for out-of-service repairs and is sent to p-etitioner's
general repair shop at Readville, Massachusetts. The
argument is that the railroad company thus recognizes
that'such work as is done at Maybrook in conjunction with
boiler-washing is incidental and does not take the engine
out of service.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
415

421

Syllabus.

We do not think this custom warrahts-a disregard of the
proved facts, and the adoption of an artificial classification
of the locomotive as one in service at the timer of respondent's injury. The judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent

with this opinion.
Reveised.

BLACKMER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

Nos. 200 and 201. Argued' January 5, 6, 1932.-Decided February
15, 1932.
1. A citizen of the United States residing in a foreign country continues to owe allegiance to the United States and is bound by its
laws. made applicable to his situation. P. 436.
2. The power to require the return of absent citiiens in the public
interest is inherent in sovereignty;* and what in England was the
sovereign prerogative in this respect, pertains, under our constitutional system, to the-national authority,'exercisable by Congress, to
prescribe the duties of the citizens of the United States. P. 437.
3. One of the duties of such absent citizens to the United States is that
of attending its courts to give testimony when properly summoned;
and Congress may provide for. the performance of this duty and
prescribe penalties for disobedience. P. 438.
4. Questions of authority in such cases are not questions of international law, but of municipal law. P. 437. 5. The Act of July 3, 1926, provides that when the testimony of a'
citizen of the United States residing in a ,foreign country is needed
by the Government in a criminal -case, the court in which the case
is pending may issue a, subpcefia to be served upon him personally
by an American consulhwith a tender of money to cover his necessary expenses of travel to and from, and attendance upon', the
court; that if he refuse or 'neglect to appear as difected'by the
*-subpcena, the same dourt, upon probf of service and default, may
issue its order directing him to appear before it at a designated
time to show cause why he should not be adjudged guilty of con-

