360

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284-U.S.

ing out of or incident to .the exercise by or through. the
President of 'any of -the powers or duties conferred or
imposed upon the President." It.preserved to every suitor
"the same right to sue the United States as he would
'have had if the decision had been made by the President
of the United States under The acts hereby repealed."
Akssunmmg, without'deciding, that the present'claim is one
which the Board was authorized to settle, we think it clear
that the Act did not purport to enlarge existing remedies
or establish a.new procedure for the enforcement of maritimpe obligations which, like the present, axe embraced
Within the Suits in Admiralty Act.
. We have considered; but find it unnecessary to discuss,
other less substantial grounds advanced for denying the
applicability of the Suits in Admiralty A!t. The judgment will be afirmed, Put without prejudice to an application by the petitioner' to the court below, if so advised,
for leave to amend the petition.

Affirmed.
TRANSIT COMMISSION

ET A.

v. UNITED STATES

ET-AL.
"APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 498. Argued November 24, 25, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.
1. In ascertaining the public eqnvenience and necessity with respect
to the abandonment of a branch line by a-railroad company engaged in intrastate and interstate commerce, the Interstate Commerce Commission must weigh the benefit to accrue to iiiterstate
commerce against the injury 0o intrastate coinmerce. P. 367.
2. Where thxe State has ordered the removal of grade crossings on a
branch line which the company seeks to abandon, the Commission
may properly take into consideration the magnitude of the-requi4red
outlay as compared with the value of the branch, and the resulting
effect on the compan:?s revenue. 1R. 368.

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U. S.
360

361

Argument for Appellants.

3. Under ยง 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Adt, as -amended by
the Transportation Act, 1920, the Commission has .powbr to authorize the.abandonment of an unprofitable branch line by .arailroad company engaged in interstate commerce, although its lines
lie wholly within the State of its incorporation, and although 'the,
bulk 6f its traffic is'intrastate and its business as a whole.-is prOsperous, upon finding that continued operation of the branch would
result in a serious and increasing depletion of revenue, due to competition by municipal rapid transit lines and their probable xtension, which would entail an unreasonable burden on interstate commerce, and that the losses 'vould. be qggravated by expenditures for
the removalzof grade crossings as,required by the state commission:.,
The exercise of such power is not an niconstiiutional invasion of
P. 368.
the State's sovereignty..
4. Evidence examined and held to support an order of the Commission authorizing the abandonment of a branch line. Pp. 369, 370.
Affirmed.

A:PPEAL from a decree of the district court of three
judges denying a preliminary inj ction and dismissing
the .bills in suits-against the United States and .the Railroad Company to enjoin the latter from abandoning a
branch line and to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission .permitting the abandonment.
The suits were brought by .the Transit Commission and
its members and by the State of New York. They weie
cdnsolidated. The Commission and the Company intervened. See 162 I. C. C. 363; 166 id. 371; 175 id. 163.
.Mr. George H. Stover, with whom Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr.,Edward M. Deegan,and CharlesDickerrhanWilliams were on the brief, for appellants.
I, this case, the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized abandonment, not to stop the drain of operating
losses which could be checked in no other *ay, but to
avoid the added capital charges which would be incurred
by complying witth a grade crossing elimination order,.
the propriety and validity of which is unquestioned.

362

OCTOBER TERM. 1931.
Argument for Appellants.

284 U.S.

The State has a constitutional right to require the
elimination of dangerous grade crossings, regardess of
the effect on interstate commerce; and the Interstate
Commerce Commission cannot destroy or impair this right
or .prevent or hamper its exercise by authorizing 'abandonment of the line, because a valid elimination order
has been made. Erie,R. Co..v. Pub. Util. Commrs., 254
U. S. 394; RailroadComm. v. Southern Pac. Co., 264 U. S.
331; Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Commissioners, 278 U. S.
24; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Railroad Comm., 283
U. S. 380, 391; Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Harris, 234
U.. S. 412, 418-419; Missouri Pac.R. Co. v. Notwood,"283
U. S. 249, 256; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Los An-

geles, 280 U. S. 52, 53.
An attempt to authorize the Commission to deprive the
State of that right, without providing for a.judicial review
on both the lai and the facts, would constitute a denial
:of. due process of law. Ohio Valley Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287. In Colorado v. United States, 271
U.,S. 153, this grade crossing issue was not presented.
The existence and practically all the rights of the car-riers were derived from the States; and these rights, in
New York at least, were granted- on certain conditions,
among which was the condition that the roads would operate in toto or abandon in tota. People v. Albany & V. R.
Co., 24 N. Y. 261, 269; Paige v. Schenectady R. Co., 178
N. Y. 102, 114.
The Commission is without power to authorize abandonment, except in a case where such course is necessary
to protect interstate commerce from undue or unreasonable burdens; and must arrive at its determination by
balancing the demonstrated prejudice to interstate commerce against the injury to the community; and can
authorize abandonment only where such prejudice outweighs the injury to the community. Wichita R. Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm., 260 U. S. 48, 59; Colorado v.
UnitedStates, 271 U. S. 153.

TRANSIT COMMISSION v,VT. S.
860.

Argument for Appellees.

The evidence shows that .the-continuance of the Whitestone branch will not prejudice, burden, obstruct or interfere with interstate commerce in any way, and will not
lessen' the ability of the Company properly to serve interstate commerce or .prevent it from performing its federal
duty.
,
The evidence shows that the abandonment -ofthebanch
would cause serious -injury to the.,property of the communities.
The Commission could not ignore. the. present injury
to the community, on-the theory that this.would ultimately be corrected in the future, by the rapid transit line
which the abandonment of the branch would compel the

city to build.
There is no evidence that the city will extend its rapid
transit system; into the area, unless the branch is
abandoned.
No amount of buses would ever serve as a substitute
for the Whitestone branch; and there is no evidence to"
support the suggestion that they would.
Congress did not intend, nor does the Constitution permit, that an incidental and dependent interstate traffie
should be used to provide color for federal interference
with a self-contained and highly remunerative local traffic."
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian,with whom
Soli7itor General Thacher and Messrs. CharlesH. Weston,
Hammond E. Chaffetz, Daniel W. Knowlton, and Edward M. Reidy were -on the brief, -for the United States
and Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees.
The constitutional and statutory authority, of the Commission to enter the order is sustained by Colorado v.
United States, 271 U. S. 153. In -that case the Court
pointed o-gt that the sole statutory test prescribed is that
abandonment be consistent with public necessity and convenience; that this test requires 9 balancing of the na-

364-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931..
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.'

tional interest not to have an interstate carrier burdened
with excessive expenditures-for the operation of a local
line against the injury which abandonment will cause to
the community affected; and that in this balancing the
iaQ-of demonstrated prejudice to interstate commerce is
relevant and may. be controlling,;bift is not requisite to
the issuance of a. certificate of abandonment.
.The-evidence amply sustains the findings of the Commission that service on the-Whitestone branch results in
large operating losses; that, due to declining passenger
traffic, these losses have been and will be progressive; that
the branch can not successfully compee .with transpbr-"
tation by buses and trolleys connecting with the city
rapid-transit line; that the branch will eventtially be
supplanted by these instrumentalities; and that, if the
branch is not abandoned, the railroad will be required
to incur a capital obligation: of $2,000,000, representing its
share of the cost, of removing grade crossings on the
branch. In finding that public convenience and necessity
permit abandonment, the Commission considered all relevant .factors, including the so-called "prosperity" of the
railroad.
" Mr. Alfred A. Gardner,,withwhom Mr.Joseph F. Keany
was on- the brief, for the Long Island Railroad Co.,
appellee..
M . JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This appeal involves the validity of a certificate of public convenience and necessity of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, permitting the abandonment by Long Island
Railroad Cgimpany of a portion of its-Whitestone branch.
Separate bills were filed by appellants to enjoin action by
the railroad and to adjudge the. certificate void. They
were consolidated and heard by a specially constituted

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U. S.
360

Opinion of the Court.

The parties having stipulated that they
district court
had offered all the proofs they desired to present, the court
refused an interlocutory injunction, and dismissed the
bills.
The Long Island Railroad Company, chartered under
the laws of New York, whosd lines lie wholly within that"
state, transports passengers and freight ininterstate commerce by the use of steam and electricity. Its Whitestone
branch" extends a distance. of "4.7 miles from the Port
Washington .branch to the Flushing River, and thence to
Whitestone Landing. The bulk of its passenger traffic is
intrastate, and only a slight amount inteistate; .but itcarries a considerable volume of freight, se-.enty-five per
cent. of which'is interstate. In these respects the branch
is representative of' conditins throughout the system.
There are five passenger stations on the branch line,Flushing, which is much the largest, and four others
beyond.
In January, 1928, the city of New -Yorli opened a rapid
transit line connecting Flushing with Manhattan. There
ensued a thirty-three per cent. decrease in .the passenger
revenue of the Whitestone branch; and its, operating
defich of some $18,000 for 1927 increased to over $125,000
in 1928. There was a further decrease of over twenty-six
per cent. in passenger, revenue in the first five months of
1929.
'On June 2, 1926, the Transit Commission, pursuant to a
program of grade crossing abolition, ordered the elimination of four in and near Flushing. There are twelve such
crossings on the entire branch, removal Of all of which
was in contemplation, and it was estimated that to remove
them would cost about $4,000,000, the company's share
being $2,000,000 which it could borrow from the state at
from four to five per cent. interest. The elimination of
1 Pursuant'to

U. S. C., Tit. 28, g 47.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

2841 U.S.

the crossings would save $37,000 per year now spent for
guarding them. On December 31, 1928, the total value
of land and improvements on the portion of the branch.
sought to be abandoned was approximately $933,000.
The company did not appeal from ihe order, as it might
have done, but formally offered to quit-claim to the city of
New York that portiQn of the branch which is involved in
this proceeding. The city did not accept the proffer.
The effective date of the grade separation order was postponed to December 31, 1928, and upon the .Transit
Commission's refusal further to extend the time for cornpliance, the company, on January 10, 1929, filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission its application under
ยง 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by
the Transportation Act of 1920,' for a certificate permitting the abandonment of the 4.1 miles of the branch extending from west of Flushing River to the terminus at
Whitestone Landing. After interventions by the Transit
Coinmission, the city of New York, and others, the matter
was heard by an examiner, whose proposed report was the
subject of argument before Division 4 of the Commission.
It found in favor of the application, and ordered that a,
certificate issue.'
During the hearing the company proposed that it would
.substitute truck service for the freight traffic to be affected
by the abandonment, and would, if a franchise were
granted it by the cityof New York, inaugurate a passenger
bus service to the towns on the branch, which would connect them with its station at Flushing and with the terminus of the city's rapid transit line to Manhattan.
A reargument was granted before the full Commission,
which affirmed' the report of Division 4. Since, however, the interveners expressed some doubt as to the com'IU. S. C., Tit. 49, ยง 1 (18).
3162 1. C. C. 363.

S166

I. C. C. 671.

TRANSIT COMMISSION v.U.S.

367

Opinion of the Court.

360

pany's making satisfactory arrangements for bus service,
the Commission indefinitely suspended the order, to afford
opportunity for negotiating the proposed bus franchise.
The company promptly applied to the proper authorities,
agreeing to take a grant terminable at short notice and
on terms favorable both to the city and to the traveling
public. No response was made to its 6ffer and no action.
was taken on its application. After waiting five months,
it applied to the Commission to take final action, setting
forth the neglect of the city to act in the matter. Thereupon the Commission ordered that its certificate should
take effect 120 days from June 17, 193V.
By their bills the state of-,New York and the Transit.
Commission challenge the power of the Interstate Commerce Commission to issue a certificate of public convenience and necessity in such a case as is here presented, and
assert that if it has such power, the proofs do not warrant
its action.
First. It is claimed that the certificate has as its sole
basis the order of the State Transit Commission for the
removal of grade crossings; that the litter was valid and
within the state's Constitutional right, regardless of its
effec.t- on interstate commerce, and that the InterstateCommerce Commission cannot destroy or impair this
right, or hamper its exercise, by authorizing an abandonment of the railroad's line. We think this assertion is
based upon a misconception of the Commission's action.
In ascertaining the public convenience and necessity the
Commission was bound to weigh the benefit to accrue to
interstate commerce by the abandonment against the resultant prejudice and injury to intrastate commerce.
Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S.153, 168. The finding was that continued operation wold result in a serious
and increasing depletion of revenue, due to the c6mpeti175 I. C. C. 163.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the C6urt.

284 U.S.

tion by the city's rapid transit lines and their probable
extension, which would entail an unreasonable burden on
interstate commerce. It was found that the expenditure
for removal of grade crossings would, in the circumstances,
be a -waste of the .company's funds, and that the requirement of the Stat6 Transit Commission removed all dotibt
of the propriety of abandonment of the branch. The
*magnitude of the .required outlay as compared with the
'value of] the whole property, and the resulting effect on
the .c6mpany's revenue, were facts properly taken into
account in passing on the application. Compaire Oregon
'R. & N. Co. v. Fairchil, 224 U. S. 510, 529; Lehigh Valley
R. Co. V . Board of Commissioners, 278 U. S. 24, 34; New
Orleans PublicService v. New Orleans, 281 U. S. 682, 687.
In reaching these conclusions the Commission considered the needs of the communities served,; and gave due
regard to them. it was shown that the city auth6rities
had refused to take over the line, when the company
offered to convey it, on the ground that. the territory
could be adequately served by bus transportation. Moreover,.the company could not maintain satisfactory schedules on the biranch, because of congestion in the tunnels
under the East River, and without better schedules could
not hope to increase use of this line. It was in evidence
,.that
company's offer to establish an adequate bus
system had not been accepted by the city .authorities.
There was other proof, which need not be detailed, as
to the intrastate traffic needs. Al these matters were
given due consideration by the Commission in reaching its ultimate conclusion. It followed the course outlined in Colorado v. United States, supra; and the claim
that its action was beyond its authority and without
warrant of law cannot be sustained. That decision requires a holding that appellant's assertion of unconstititional invasion -of the State's sovereignty is without
merit. We need not elaboritte what was there said on the
subject (271 U. S. 165).
-the

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U. S.

369

Opinion of the Court.

360

Second. Appellants'insist that the Commission's findings and conclusions, assuming that its order was within
its -powers, lack support in the evidence. They say the
proofs show the dontinued operation of the branch will
not prejudice, burden, obstruct, or interfere with interstate commerce, or lessen, the ability of the carrier to
serve that commerce, and-since it is shown that the abandonment will cause prejudice to several communities, the
certificate should not have been granted. There is no
contradiction of the. fact that the branch is operating
at a serious loss, as shown by the carrier's accounts offered
in evidence, and that this will continue and increase from
year to year and be aggravated by expenditures for the
removal .of grade crossings. Appellants criticize the allocation of certain rentals and, overheads by the company, and point to evidence produced by them inaicating
that the operating losses are in fact much less than those
claimed by the carrier. , The Commission, however, concluded that the railroad's figures came nearer ,representing the true situation than those offered by the
interveners. The latter further assert that the intrastate
passenger traffic of the railroad constitutes by far the
greater and more profitable portion of its business; that,:
the interstate traffic represents only about sixteen tier cent.
of its gross revenue and is unprofitable; that the system
as a whole has large net earnings and is a successful enterprise; and that ihe Commission was in error in considering incidental and dependent interstate traffic as an
excuse for federal interference with a highly remunerative local traffic. They seek thus to distinguish the present case from Coloradov. United States, supra, and assert
that the Commission igfiored the t st there approved
and acted upon the erroneous theory that proof that
the continuance of the Whitestone branch would constitute a burden on interstate commerce was unnecessary.

We do not so read the Commission's report. That body
professed to follow the decision in the Colorado case and
85912-32-24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

we thinkfhat it did so. The Court there held that, in the
issuance of a certificate of public convenience and necessity,
the Commission need not determine with mathematical
exactness the extent of the burden imposed upon interstate commerce by the operation of a branch line; that
such burden might involve various elements, and that
if upon the whole proof the conclusion was warranted that
continued operation would in fact unreasonably burden
the interstate commerce of the carrier, the Commission
was justified in authorizing abandonment. There, as
here, the system lay wholly within the state and was prosperous, and no claim was made that immediate abandonment of the local branch was necessary to enable the car'
rier to earn a reasonable return on its investment. Here,
as in the Colorado case, the Commission had regard for
the needs of intrastate as well as interstate commerce.
The evidence was ample to give a comprehensive view of
the entire situation, and due weight was accorded all of
the proofs in the light of the conflicting requirements.
The contention that the Commission went upon the
theory that it might authorize abandonment in disregard
of the evidence is not supported by the record. The judgment must be

Affirmed.
ARIZONA GROCERY CO. v. ATCHISON; TOPEKA

& SANTA FE RAILWAY CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT'COURT'OF 'APPEALS
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 98.

FOR- THE

Argued December 8, 1931.-Decided January 4, 1932.

1. Where the Commission has, upon 'omplaint and after hearing,
declared what is the maximum reasonable rate to be chiarged by a
carrier, it may not'at a later time, and upon the same or additional evidence as to the fact situation existing when its previous

