408

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

284 U.S.

BALTIMORE & PHILA. STEAMBOAT CO. E'I AL.
NORTON, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER; ET AL.

V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 185. Argued December 11, 1931.-Decided January 11, 1932.
1. Laws such as the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers" Act, of
- March 4, 1927, which operate to relieve employees and their dependents of part of the burden resulting from injuries and deaths

in employment, and to distribute it.-to the industries and mediately
to those served by them, are in the public interest and should be
construed liberally in furtherance of their purposo and, if possible,
so as to avoid incongruous results. P. 414.
2: It is clear, when the related parts of § 8 of.the Act are considered
together, that Congress intended to distinguish between temporary

total'disability (.b), permanent partial disability due to the total
loss of the use of a member (c),, (1), and permanent partial disbility due to the Partial loss. of such use (c) (18) (19), and thal
its purpose was to require payments on account of the loss of earn:
ing capacity resulting from each. P. 415.
'3. The language of (22) when taken in context and construed in
harmony with the purpose of the Act, means that the full rate"
shall be allowed for the 'duration of the "healing time" and that
'the proportionate rate shall apply to the rest of the established
compensation period. Id.
4. A longshoreman, while working on a vessel in navigable waters of
the United States, suffered an injury to his arm resulting in his
temporaiy tital disability for 34 weeks, and permanent partial
'disability amounting to 40% of the Uie of the arm. Held:
(1) _That the full period for compensation is 314 weeks, made-up
by adding to the period of 312 weeks specified ih'paragraphs'(e) (1)
.'-(18) the two weeks .by which the tempdrary total disability exceeded the period of 32 weeks ("healing time-") fixed in the schedule of paragraph (22)..
(2) The full rate of 66%% of the average weekly wages should
be allowed for 32 weeks only, on account of the temporary permanent disability, and the proportionate rate (40% of the full rate)
should be allowed.for 282 week, (the remainder of the full com.pensation period). on account of-the permanent partial disability.
48 F; (2d) 57, modified and affirmed.

B. & P. STEAMBOAT CO. v. NORTON.
408

Op'inioh of the Court.

ERTIORARI, post; p. 602,,to review a judgment affirming
the dismissal of a suit to set aside an award of compefisation under*the Longshoremen's & Harbor Workers' Compensation Act. IFor the ojiinion-of the District Court see
40 F. (2d) 530.

Messrs. Ira-A. Campbell and Edin A-,.Swingle, with
whom Messrs.' Cletus Keating, Vernon S. Jones, and
Raymond Parmerwere on the brief; for petitidners.,
Solicitor General Thdcher .and. Messrs." Claude, R.
Branch,J. FrankStdley, C. M. Hester,and Win. H. Riley,
Jr., filed a memorandum 0n, behalf of respondent N6rton,
disclaiming: any interest in the case on 'the part of the
Government.

:,

MR. JUsTicE BuTimR delivered the opinioi 0f.the Court.

This is a suit in equity brought- by petitioners in the
'District Court foi the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
to set aside as not -inliccordance with law an order of the
deputy icommissioner awdrding compensation to Gube
under the L6ngshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act of
March 4, 1927, 44 Stat; 1427,'33 U, S. C., § 900 et'seq.
The District Court dismissed the. cause, 40 F. (2d) 530,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals.affirmied. '48 F. (2d) 57.
February 17, 1928, Gube, while engaged in work for the
steamboat company as a longshoreman upon a vessel in
the navigable waters of the United States, suffered an
injury to his left arm. He filed with the deputy commissioner a.claim against the employer and insurer for compensation in accordance with-the Act., The deputy commissioner found that claimant's average weekly wage
amounted to $36.06; that as a result of the injury he suf'fered total disability for 34 Weeks following and per• manent partial.inipairment, amounting to 40 per cent. of
the use of his arm, and 'awarded compensation at the
weekly rate of $4.04 for 146 weeks, amounting in all.to
$3,509.84.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Petitioners maintain that the -award should be the fullrate for 40 per, cent. of 314, being' 125.6 weeks, and that
the amount allowed below is'excessive by 204 weeks or
$490.42. We are called on to determine, on the basis of
the facts found, what amount the Act requires the empl9yer to p'ay claimaat. No other question is presented.
The pertinent provisions follow:
Sec. 8. Compensation for disability shall be paid to
the employee as follows:.
"(a) ,In: case of total disability adjudged-to be permanent 66% per centtim of the average iveekly "wages shall
bb paid to the employee 'during the continuance of such.'
tdtal-disability.

.,

.

.

'

•

"(b) In case of disability total in character but :temporary in quality,66% per centum of the:average weekly
wages shill be pai to the employee during the continu.
ance thereof.
"(c) _In case- of -disability partial in character-but permanent in quality the compensation shall be 66% per
centum of the average weekly wages and Shajl be paid
to the employee as follows:
"(1) Arm lost, three hundred and twelve weeks', compensation. .
"(18) Compensation for permanent total loss of use'of
a member shall be the'same as for loss of the-member.
"(19) Compensatibn for permanent partial loss or loss
of use' of a member may-be for proportionate loss or loss
of use of th mnimber. '
"(22)' In case 6f temporary total disability and permanent partial disability, both resulting from the same in.jury, if'- he tepiporary- total' disability 'continues for a
longer perio d than, the number of weeks set forth in the
following schedule, thejperiod of temporary tptal disabilityin excess of such- number -f weeks shall be added
to the .cppen.saipn period provided in subdivision (c) of
this sectiqn: Arm, thirty-two weeks; .
-

B. & P. STEAMBOAT CO. v. NORTON.
408

-4il,

Opinion of the Court.

"In any chse resulting in loss or partia]loss of use of arm
where the temporary total disability does not.ex.tend beyond the -periods above mentioned for such injury,
compensation shall be limited to the schedule ,contained
in subdivision (c). .
."
The award is based on.a construction of the section in
substance as follows: Subdivision (b) allows compensation for temporary total disability during its continuance
at the rate of two-thirds of the average weekly wage:
Subdivision (c) allows for permanent pArtial loss :of,use of
an-arm compensation for 314 weeks at a -rate that is the
same"proportion of two-thirds of the weekly wage as such
partial disability is of the total use. (1), (18),'(19), (22).
Temporary total disability and permanent partial disability resulted from -the same injury. The former continued
34 weeks, being two weeks in excess ,of the healing period
allowed by c (22). The&computation Was: $36.06X%2/
-$24.94X34=$817.36 foi' temporay 'total disability' of
clainant. 312+2=314-34=280 x $24.04 X.40=$2,692.48
for permanent partial disability of his arm.,
The allowance for temporary total disability was for its
duration, 34 weeks. That is not authorized. - The period
of allowance is definitely limited to 32 weeks, and the
statute expressly authorizes enlargement of the' pecified
compensation period, 312 weeks,- by the excess of actual
temporary total, disability Qver the time limited for healing, and so here the added' two weeks take the ,pioportionate rate. (cj' (1) (22).
The deputy commissioner did 'not apply the proportion.ate rate, $9*616, to the 280 w"eeksremaiiling bitAdded
to the 34 weeks 40 per cent. of 280 (being, 112) and applied the full rate for 146. weeks. The total of the, payments is the sam in either case. _The computation employed shortens the statutory period and correspondingly
increases the weekly payments. Petitioners raise no
question as 'tothat feature of the. award, and iherefore"

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U. S.

we need not consider whether it is consonant with the
Act. In support of their computation, petitioners call attention to the second paragraph of (c) (22), that in any case
resulting in the loss or partial loss of the use -of an arm,
or other specified member, where the temporary total
disability does not extend beyond the periods for which
payments are required, compensation: shall be limited *to
the schedule, (1) to (13), contained in subdivision (c).
And they contend that if claimant had not been totally
disabled for more than 32 weeks he would not have been
entitled to anfy allowance at the full rate on account of
the temporary total disability bult only to the proportionate rate for the entire 'period, or, according to the
method of computation adopted, the full rate for the proportionate number of weeks. And they argue that it is
inconsistent to hold that, merely because total disability
continued two weeks in. excess of the prescribed healing
period, claimant was entitled to an allowance at the full
rate for the period of:total disability,
Petitioners' construction would produce incongruous
results in many, cases. -'Indeed' a decision cited by them,
Texas Employers'Ins.Assn..v. Sheppeard,32 F. (2d) 300,
concretely illustrates such a result. On that.basis, whenever the temporary total disability of an arm continued
duting the. full time allowed for healing and the subsequent permanefit partial loss of 'its use was not. more than
ten per cent., the injured eihployee would receive less than
if he had suffered only Ithe temporary total disability.
Thus petitioners' constriction would deny any allowance
for the permanent -injury. If in this case claimant's per-.
manent partial loss of use of. his arm; had not been more
than-ten per cent., petitioners' calculation would giv.e him
compensation for- only 31.4 weeks whereas without any
permanent disability he would be paid for 32 weeks. Similar inconsistencies wold arise where aii injury of any

-

B. & P. STEAMBOAT CO. v. NORTON.
408

- 413

Opinion of the Court.

member listed in the schedule contained in subdivision
(c) resulted in temporary total disability followed by
relatively small permanent partial loss of its use.. It may
not reasonably be assumed that Congress intended to require payment of more compensation for a lesser disability
than for a greater one including the lesser. Nothing less
than compelling language would justify such a construction of the Act.
Petitioners also cite Marhoffer v. Marhofier, 220 N. Y.
543; 116 N. E. 379, reversing 175 App. Div. 52; 161 N. Y.
S. 527. That case arose under the state workmen's compensation law. Claimant suffered an injury to his hand
including lacerations of his thumb and index and loss of
the middle finger.. The statute limited the temporary
total to 12 and the permanent partial disability allowance
to 30 weeks. It required the payment of the full rate of
two-thirds of the- weekly wage on, account of the total
disability .and the same rate during the compensation
period established for the loss of a finger. The commission found total disability continued ten weeks and, as the
statute provided, excluded the first two and allowed the
full rate for eight weeks; it also allowed the full rate for
the permanent' partial disability for 30 weeks, ta commenme at the expiration of the eight weeks period, and
so'the full rate was allowed for 38 weeks. The appellate,
division sustained the award but that judgment was reversed. The Court of Appeals held it error to make consecutive allowances, first for the temporary totaldisability
and second on account of the loss of the finger for the full
period, and directed that the claim for the first be dismissed. Obviously the loss of the finger together with the
other lacerations caused temporary total disability. That
period was attributable to the injuryjas a whole and not
exclusively to the lacerations. And while the total disability continued it necessarily included the impairment
of use that was permanently to remain. That case is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

in point. There the controversy concerned the period for
which payments were required to be made. Here the
question is not whether the healing period shall be added
to that allowed on account of partial permanent disability, but it is whether the full rate, shall be allowed for
the period of total disability up to the specified limit of
32 weeks.
The measure before us, like. recent similar legislation in.
many States, requires employers to,make payments for
the relief of employees and their d'pendents who 1sustain
loss as a result of personal injuries and deaths occurring
in the course of their work, wh~ther with or -without fault
attributable to employers. Such laws operate to relieve
persons suffering such-misfortunes of a part of the burden
and to distribute it to the industries and mediately to
those served by them. They are deemed to be in the
public interest and should be construed liberally, in furtherance of the purpose for which they were enacted and,
if possible, so as to avoid incongruous or harsh results.
Jamison v. Encarnacion;281 U. S.635, 640.
'Section 8 establishes the rule that the full rate shall
apply during continuance of total disability. whether permanent or temporary, (a) and (b), and during the specified compensation period for partial permanent disability
due to loss of a listed member, (c) (1) to (13) inclusive,
and it specifically provides:. "Compensation for permanent partial loss or loss of use of a member may'be for
proportionate loss or loss of use of the member." The
provisions of (c) (22) have no bearing on the question
whether the full rate or a proportionate one shall be
allowed. They relate to the periods during which -payments are to be made When temporary total disability and
permanent partial disability result from the same injury,
and establish the rule that, if temporary total disability
continues for more than the prescribed healing period, the
excess shall be added to the total compensation period

N. Y., N. H. & H. R. CO. v. BEZUE.

415

Syllabus.

408

specified in the schedule in subdivision (c), and that if
actual duration of the temporary total disability does not
exceed such healing time then the applicable period specified in such schedule shall not be increased.
It ip clear, when the related parts of § 8 are considered
together, that Congress intended to distinguish between
temporary total disability (b), permanent partial disability due to the total loss of the -use of a member (c) (1),
and permanent partial disability due to the partial loss
of such use (c) (18) (19), and that its purpose was to require payments on account of the loss of earning capacity resulting from each. The language of (22) on which
petitioners rely, when taken in context and construed in
harmony with the purpose of the Act, means that the full
rate shall be allowed for the duration of the healing time
and that the proportionate rate shall apply to the balance of the established compensation period.
The decree will be modified so as to allow the full rate
of $24.04 for only 32 weeks and proportionate compensation of 40 per cent. for 282 weeks.
Modified Kand affirmed as modified.
NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD CO. v. BEZUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 263. Argued January 7, 1932.-Decided January 25, 1932.
1.A case is not within the Federal Employers' Liability Act unless
the remployee at the time of his injury was engaged in interstate
transportation or in work so closely related thereto as to be practically a part of it. Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R.' Co., 239
U. S. 556; Chicago & E. I. R. Co. v. Industrial Comm., qte,
p. 296. P. 420-

2. Whether repair work on a locomotive comes within this definition
must be determined, not by reference to the kind of plant in which
it was done nor by the kind of labor usually performed by the

