460

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
*Syllabus.

284 U. S.

the pathway commonly used by trainmen, there was a
slight depression--estimated to be four or five, or possibly six or eight, feet long and three feet wide-filled
with, small rock screenings. It was softer than other
portions of the way-yielded to the foot. Eight or ten
feet west of this witnesses found blood upon the rail.
Two hours after the accident a fourteen year old boy
discovered the mark of a shoe in the screenings. He said
it "was deeper than the footprint that I made, it looked
as though somebody that was heavy or running had
stepped in it. The front part of the foot was deepest."
Tlere is no, evidence-nothing but conjecture-to show
thaf the deceased made this impression; and, even if he
did,. we cannot assume that by stepping' there he was
made to stumble and fall under the moving train.
What occasioned this distressing accident can only be
surmised. It was necessary to show causal negligence in
Order to establish the respondent's right to recover. The
evidence fails to meet this requirement.
The judgment below must, be reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion..
Reversed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. DAVID,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 365. Argued January 20, 1932.-Decided February 15, 1932.
1. In actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act; assumption
of risk is a defense. P. 462.
2. A railway company employed an experienced guard to help protect

its freight trains against 'anticipated depredations by murderous
gangs of robbers. He was fully armed* and fully apprised of the
danger. It also employed a member of one of the gangs to give
the. company advance information of projected robberies. In a

MISSOURI PACIFIC R. R. v. DAVID.
460

461

Opinion of the Court.

raid by the gang, of which the accomplice knew beforehand, and at
which he was presenf, but of which he did not warn the company,
the guard was killed. Held that the guard, even if he knew of the
company's arrangement with the accomplice, assumed the risk that
warning would not be given. P. 463.
328 Mo. 437; 41 S. W. (2d) 179, reversed.

CERTIoRAI * to review a judgment affirming a recovery in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability

Act.
Mr. Leslie A. Welch, with whom Messrs. Edward J.
White and Thomas Hackney were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. C. A. Randolph, with whom Mr. Horace Guffin was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
While employed by petitioner, Railroad Company, and
charged with the duty of protecting its trains against robbers, James Lee David was-murdered in the night of May
17th, 1923. His administratrix sued for damages under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act in the Circuit Court,
Jackson County, Missouri, and obtained a favorable verdict. Judgment thereon was affirmed by the Supreme
Court. The cause is here upon writ of certiorari.
Often during the months prior to April, 1923, the petitioner suffered losses through depredations by organized
bands of robbers upon freight trains in and near Kansas
City, Missouri. It determined to make special efforts to
frustrate further attacks by the culprits and, if possible,
cause their apprehension. To this end, on April 1st, 1923,
it employed David to act as a "train rider " or guard for
its cars. He had had experience in similar undertakings.
*

See table of cases reported in this volume.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. S.

Also, hef was carefully advised concerning the probable
dahger. He was told that the robbers were desperate
men who "would shoot him just as. quick as they saw
him." He carried a pistol and sawed-off shotgun "for
the purpose of deferiding himself and the company's property." When asked "Whether you will fight these fellows or n'6? '" he replied "I will fight them until I die."
Subsequent to Daiv'id's employment, in order to
strengthen its efforts towards frustration and to secure
arrests, petitioner employed McCarthy, known to be assQciated with, one of the criminal bands, who agreed, when
possible, to furnish advance information of intended depredations, aid in locating stolen goods, etc. "His instructions were that he was to get us w6rd [through the telephone] before the robbery was committed,, if he Could, if
not, to give us information as soon as he could after the
robbery had been committed."
The theory upon which respondent recovered below
is that, while acting for, petitioner, McCarthy knew of
a plan to rob the train to which David was assigned On
May 17th, and in violation of his duty negligently failed
to notify his superior officer,-that because of such negligence, David received no notice-of the plan, although he
had the right to rely upon being supplied with such information in order to prepare to cope with the brigands on
equal terms. As a consequence, he failed to,, take the
necessary precautions and exposed himself to being shot.
The established rule is that in proceedings under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act assumption of the risk
is an adequate defense. Seaboard Air Line Ry v. Horton,
233 U. S, 492;. Boldt v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 245 U. S.
441, 445; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Nixon, 271 U. S.
218; St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Mills, 271 U. S.
344; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Southwell, 275 U. S.
64; Toledo, St. Louis & Western R. Co. v. Allen, 276
U. S. 165.

CENT. PAC. RY. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY
460

463

Syllabus.

Under the circumstances disclosed by, the record,
clearly, we think, David assumed the risk of the default
which, it is said, resulted in his death. He understood
the nature of his employment and the incident dangers.
He well knew that he was subjecting himself to murderous attacks by desperadoes. There was no promise to give
him special warning or protection. Even if he had knowledge of McCarthy's employment (and this is far from
certain), he must have appreciated the utter unreliability
of the man and the probable inability bf the master to
obtain timely information through such a medium. He
could not properly expect to be protected against criminals, whom he was employed to fighi, through treachery
by one of their associates. The common employer, notwithstanding efforts to obtain warning, actually knew
nothing of the criminal plan. If we accept respondent's
view of the facts, David assumed the risk of the negligent
action of which complaint is now made.
We need not consider any other point advanced in behalf of the petitioner.
. The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. ET AL. v. ALAMEDA COUNTY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 258.

Argued January 7, 1932.

Decided February 15, 1932.

1. There is a presumption that a highway, once established, continues
to exist; and he who would make good a later title upon the ground
that, through deviations in places from the original route, there was
such an abandonment as to substitute for the old road a different
one, dependent for its legality upon other and independent facts
and conditions, has the burden of sustaining that proposition.
P. 467.

