44

OCTOBER TPM, 1931.'Syllabus.

284U.S.

before it passes iinto th purchaser's hands. The w6rk
done by the plaintiff is done upon fieflowing gasto help
: e elivery and seems to us'plaily to be 'incident to the
'inteitate commerce between Louisiana anci Mississippi.

The .piain,#ff slimply transports the gas . and, delivers it
wholesale not otherwise worked over, than-to make .it
rdy for, delivery, to the indepentaenparties that dispose
of it by reail Missouriv. Kaisas Gas Co.,265 U. S. 298.
Public-Utiities Comm. V. Landor, 249 -U. S. 236, '245.
Ozark:'Pipe Line Corp. v . Monier, 266 U. S. 555.
Der&e,-affirmed.

CHESAPEAKE &OHIo RAILWAY CO. v. -KUHN.
C6ERTORARI To THE SUPREmE COURT or bHio, ANI)
TE
COURT OF APPEAI OF PIKE COUNTY, OHIO.

To

Nos. j4 and- 35._" Argued October 23, 1931.-Decided November
23,193L
1. The writ 4f bertiorari p ery ge*'to an intermediate appellate
court whererthe supreme, court of the State has declined to review
,
its'dtecisi.j,.P.'4.
2. i action under therFederil Emproyers' .iability Act, where the7
-undisputed evidence sustains-the defense 6Oass ption of niskthe
.
trial judge sliould.direct a i.rdictfofthe defendant. P. 46.
The' evidi ce dearly showed. that :a. .injury to plaintis -eye
S 'caused.bya steel chip which flew- into it whexi a rail.w s-beiig
cut by .sledge-haminer and cold chisel)' risulted from ordinary
ba :ardq, of:'his emplo~ment, which he, fully under4tod Iandvoluntrily asmaed; -thattherQ wa' nG conplaint agaiist his exppsure"
to the obvious danger unprotected by goggles, nor any' promise by
"
hi8 superior to.mitigatb. it.
3. In such actions, wherever. brqught, the rights and qbliations of
the'parties depend uPon thd fedetal Act and app5i6able, principles
of the comimon lawas interpeted ipd Applied i4 the federal courts;.
a suibordinate ste tribunal should follow in ach-eases the views ofthis Courtithough theyl;con'afieVt,with thos .of the spreme/court
,-of theState. "'P..

Reversed_

-

'

.'CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO.,v. KUHN.
44

-

45

Opinion of the Court.

CMaIORAM, 283 U. S. 815, to.r0eview a judgment sustaining a xecovery nuder the Federal Employers- Liability
"Act of damages for personal injuries. The Ohio Supreme
Couit reftsed to review the, judgment. The oppinion of
the Court of Appeals is reported in-9 Oh. L. Abstract 378.

Mr. Henry Bannon, with whom Mr. David!H.'Leake
was.on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Hon'er if. Maf8hman, with -wlom Messrs. David F.
Anderson and GeorgeDD Nye weie on,. the brief,, for
.respondent.
. JUSTXCE McRMNois delivered the opinion of the

Court.

-

While emploed in iniekstate commerc as a section
hand by petitioier- an interstate catrier,*.(Act April.22,1908, 35 Stat. 65; April 5, 190, c. 143; 36 Stat "291; V. S.
Code, Title 45, c. 2,)?Wilam Kuhn suffers seripus injury.
Thereafter hl sued the C6mpany. for damages in the,
Court. of Common Pleas, Pike County, Ohio.-, He alleged
that the accident resulted froni'iWs &egigence in the foI:
lowing matters-Orderng him, to uise "a defective sledge
Sha;mmer and chisel; failing to promulgate, iind enforce
proper iules oncefiing the upkeep of tools, ordinarily
Useii, iofrnish guard . or goggles for workmen's eyes, to
provide .a"daoiibly safeplace for him fo work.
*The Company deniedhgligence.-: It also .set up in defense that the pla intiff volimtarily assumed the risk inci.
dent to his employment. At thd trial it duly, but unsuccessfully, Irequested a directd v*erdid because of such
assumption.
The jury return'ed a verdict f6rth,*respondent.,Judiment upon this was affirmed by the Court-of Appeals; the
Supreme Court', denied. - a review. " This'-Court allowed'
rits' of 'certiorari both to the Supreme Courf (No. 34),

QOCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

and -the Court of Appeals (No, 35). 'The cause. is properly here on the latter writ. Number 34 will be dismissed.
On the day of the accident, February Q, 1926, William
Kuhn, an experienced section hand 54 years old, was engaged with others in repairing a side track leading from petitioner's main line to a steam shovel. It became necessary
to remove two steel rails and shorten them some six or
eight inches. They were first laid on the ground and
then cut with a cold chisel. One man held the chisel
while respondent and two others, acting in turn, struck it
with a heavy hammer. None of them wore goggles; none
asked for goggles or objecteaf-S-the'method of operation.
The first rail had been severed; work had begun on the
second. While-respondent was standing by, awaiting his
turn to strike, a steel chip from-the chisel or rail struck
and destroyed, his eye. Zn other occasions he had assisted in cutting steel rails when goggles were used, and
he lnew chips would fly during such an operation. "That
was the value of goggles," he testified. He understood
the dangers incident to the undertaking, The job was a
hurry-up one. The assistant foreman in. charge had told
the men "to gang Up and go in a hurry, that he wanted
to get through there." " Don't be afraid."
We think the evidence clearly discloses that Kuhn's injury resulted from the ordinary hazards of his employment, which he fully understood, and voluntarily assumed.
There was no complaint, no promise by his superior to
mitigate the obvious dangers. The trial judge should
have directed a verdict for the Railway Company.
In cases like this, where damages are claimed under
the Federal Employers' Liability Apt, defense of the assumption of the risk is permissible, and where the undisputed evidence clearly shows such assumptioxi, the trial
judge should direct a verdict for the defendant. Moreover, in proceedings under that Act, 'wherever -brought,
the rights and obligation, of the paties fdeend upon it

WESTERN PACIFIC v. SOUTH. PAC. CO.
44

Syllabus.

and applicable principles of common'law as interpreted
and applied in'the federal courts. 'Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton,233 U. S. 492 508; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.v.
De Atley, .241U. S. 310; Boldt v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 245
U. S.441, 445; New Orleans& N. E. R. Co. v. Harris,247
U. S. 367,,371; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v.
.Coogan,271 U. S.472, 474.

The Court of Appeals acted upon the erroneous theory
that it should follow the views of the Supreme Court of
the State rather than those of this Cotirt 'in respect of
questions aris ng under the Liability Act. That statute,
as interpreted by this Court, is the supreme law to be
applied by all courts, federal and state. Second Em-

ployers' Liability Cases, 223 U.. S.1, 57, 58. Where this
view is not accepted, as in the present cause, it is within
the power of this Court to determine and apply the
proper remedy:
The judgment below is reversed. The cause will be
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.
WESTERN PACIFIC CALIFORNIA RAILROAD CO.
v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. APPEALS FOR'THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 51.: Argued October 27, 1931. -Decided Novdmber 23, 1931.
1. In order to constitute a railroad company a "party in interest"
within the meaning of ยง 402, par. 18, of .the Transportation- Act,
1920, and thereby entitle- it to maintain a suit to enjoin another
railr6ad company from extending its line without having first obtained a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the
Interstate Commerce Commission, it is not essential that the company suing have a legal right for which it might ask protection
-under the otdinary rules of equity;, but it will suffice if the bill
disclose either that some definite legal right of the plaintiff isseii-

