WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.

231

Syllabus.

225

the petition in error and denied the motion for certiorari;
and in support of this allegation we are referred to Rule
IX of the Supreme Court, 122 0. S.lxxii, which provides
for the return of the record to the lower court "after
the decision of a cause . . .in which a final record is not
required to be made' in" the Supreme Court., But we
have 6btained the record from the court whose decision
we are to review, and so have no occasion to resort to any
other court in order to get it. Atherton v. Fowler, supra.
Our Rule 43 provides that the certified transcript of the
record on file here shall be treated. as though sent up.in
*response to a formal writ. The case at bar should, therefore, properly be considered on -the writ (in No. 55) issued to the Supreme Court of Ohio; and the writ (in No.
54) issued to the Court of Appeals shoula be discharged.
In No. 55, Judgment reversed.
In No. 54, Writ of. .Certiorari discharged.

WILBUR, SECRETARY'OF THE INTERIOR, v. U..S.
Ex REL.

VINDICATOR CONSOLIDATED GOLD-

MINING CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS- OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 66. Argued October 28, 29, 193.-Decided Dec. 7, 1931.
1. Under § 5 of the War Minerals Relief Act, as amended, providing
for the adjustment and payment of losses suffered in producing-or
preparing to produce, at the request of specified governmentalagencies, certain minerals for the Government, the Secretary of the
Interior is empowered to take into account, in arriving at the
amount, if any, to -be allowed and paid, the losses arising out of
expenditures f6r the purchase of'property to which claimant retains
title. P. 235.
*,'Together with No. 67, Wilbur, Secretary of the Interior,v. U. S.

ex rel. Chestatee,Pyrites & Chemical Corp.

232

OCTOBER TERM, .1931.
Argiunent for Petitioner.

.

284 U.S.

2. The puipose of-§ 5 is merely to reimburse; loss resulting from
speculative investments is excluded; allowance of profits is forbidden. P. 236.
3. Where the language and meaning of a statute are clear, it is not
permissibleto resort to the legislative history.as an aid to con-

struption. P. 237.
4. Under § 5 of "the War Minerals Relief Act, as .amended, interest.
on money borrowed and lost in producing or preparing to produce
- minerals unaer the conditions specified, should be taken into account. in determining the amount of a.net loss; but the Secretary
is not warranted in making any allowance' therefor unless it is
shown clearly'that such interest was paid or the obligation ineurred at the instance of one of the specified governmental agencies
and he is satisfied that an allowane on account of such-interest is
just and equitable. P. 238.

47 F. (2d) 422, 424, affirmed.

"CETIRAIU, 283 U. S. 817, to review judgments of the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversing
judgments of the-Supieme Courit of the District which
dismissed, petitions for mandamus against the Secretary
of the Interior in two cases involving claims under the
War Minerali Relief Act.
Assistant Attorney General Richaidson, with whom
,Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Whitney North
Seymour, G. A. Iverson, and E.-C. Finney were-on the
brief, for petitioner.
As a matter of law, a claim based upon expenditures
by the respondent -for the purchase of property to which
it retained title was not allowable, and the petitioner
properly disallowed respondent's claim. S6e 35 Op. A. G.
426, 430; Sen. Doc. 385, 66th Cong., 3d Sess.; H; R. 2250,
70th Cong., 2d Sess.; Sen. Rep. 475, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.
Even if the terms of the statute do not explicitly
require this disposition of the, claim, the uniform action
of successive Secretaries of the Interior in .disallowing
similar claims is an administrative construction of the
statue which should not be disturbed unless it is.clearly

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
231

23a

Opinion of the Court..

wrong. United States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236; Hall v.
Payne, 254 U. S. 343.
The statute related to the granting of a new and unusual gratuity, the limitations of which were not explicitly
prescribed, and it invited and required administrative -construction. The construction of statutes, general in- their
directions, has been held to be for the Secretary,,without
review by mandamus. Hall v. Payne, 254 U. S. 343; Wilbur v. United States, 281 U. S. 206; Alaska Smokeless
Coal Co. v. Lane, 250 U. S. 549; Ness v. Fisher, 223 U.' S.
683, 693. The provision of the Act of February 13, 1929,
authorizing a review of questions of law, certainly did not
authorize the court below to reverse the decision of petitioner unless it clearly -violated the express provisions of
the statute.
Under the Act of March 2, 1919, petitionerwas vested
with discretion in the allowance and disallowance of claims
which was not removed by the Act of Febimary_ 13, 1929.
Wfork v. Rives, 267 U. S. 175; W1ork v. Chestatee Corp.,
267 U. S. 185; WQrk v. U. &.ex rel. Rives, 54. .4pp.
I). C. 84.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Messrs. Marion Smith,
Mac Asbill, and J. C. Trimble were on the brief, for
.respondents.
Mha. JuLTiCE BUTLER delivered the opinfion of te
Court.
.No. 66
May 31, 1919, the relator, under § 5 of the Act of March
2 of that year, 40 Stat. 1272, known as the War Minerals
Relief Act, filed with the Secretary of the Interior a
clahi for net losses alleged to have been suffered by rea.on of producing or preparing to produce-.hrome in compliance with the request. of the Secretary. The claim
ineluded an item of $16,259 asserted to be a net loss by

234

'OCTOBER

TERM, T91.

Opinion of the Court.

284.U.S.

reason of the expenditure of that amount for the purchase of land upon which the mine was located.. Relator
still holds the title. May. 15, 1922, the Secretary heldthat under the Act he was not authorized to adjust -or
pay losses by reason of expenditures for the purchase of
property, and on that ground denied any award on Account of that item.
In Work v. Rives (1925), 267 U. S. 175, we held that
the Act made the Secretary's decisions conclusive. But
Congress, by the.Act of Febiuary 13, 1929, 45, Stat. 1166,'
authorized the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
to review the inal decision of the Secretary upon any
question of law 'which had arisen or might thereafter
.arise inthe adjiitment of such claims, e.xpressly leaving
his decisions on. questions of fact conclusive.
February 18, 1929, relator sued for a writ of mandamus
directing the Secretary to take jurisdiction and to adjust
and pay relator its net losses suffered by reason of the
purchase of such property. The court held the Secre-.
tary rightly decided the question of' law and' dismissed
the petition. The Court of Appeals, following its earlier
decision in Work v. Uniled States, 295 Fed. 225 (reversed
:here-on the ground that under the Act of i919 the Secretary's construction was not subject to review) held the
Secretary,-erred in law and reversed the judgment. 47
F. .(1d) 422. 'This court granted a writ , of certiorari.
283 U. S.817.
The question for decision is: -To what extent, if at
all, does the statute empower the Secretary in respect
of -net"loss incurred by relator by reason of its expenditure for such land?
During the World War certain ftnineral substances and
products, including chrome, became essential to the nation's defense. .The need having become very great, C-6ngass by the Act of October 5, 1918, 40 Stat. 1009, declared
a large number of such materials. to be necessaries, em-

.WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
231

235

Opinion of the Court.

powered the President, through such agencies as he should
designate, to acquire and distribute the same and also to
requisition, develop and operate lands, mines and plants
capable of producing them, and appropriated $50,000,000
to carry out the purpose of the statute. The Armistice,
November 11, 1918, ended the emergency.
By § 5 of the Relief Act the Secretary is empowered
to adjust . . . and pay such net losses as have been suffered by any person . . .by reason of producing or preparing t6 produce either, manganese, chrome, pyrites, or
tungsten in compliance with the request or demand of. the
Department bf the Interior, the War Industries Board, the
War Trade Board, the Shipping Board, or the Emergency
Fleet Corporation to supply the urgent needs of the Na
tion in the prosecution of the war .... " And the section
limits the authority of the Secretary to stich "adjustments
and payments in each case as he shall determine to be just
and equitable." It requires that all disbursements shall
be made out of funds appiopriated by the Act of 1918, and
shall not exceed $8,500,000. A proviso declares that no
claim shall be allowed or paid unless it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the Secretary that the expenditures so made
were made in good faith "for or upon lproperty which contained either manganese, chrome, pyrites, or tungsten in
sufficient quantities to be of commercial importance."
The Act of November 23, 1921, 42.Stat. 322, amends
and broadens § 5 of the Relief Act by adding to its first
paragraph a provision th at " all claimants who, in response
to any personal, written, or published. request, demand,
solicitation, or appeal from any of the Government agencies mentioned in" the Act of October 5, 1918,1 "in good
faith expenled money in producing or preparing to produce any of the ores or minerals named therein and have
..

"

. .

. officer or officers, department or departments, board or

boards, agent, agents, or agencie. as he [the President] shall create or
designate from time to time." See § 7, 40 Stat. 1011.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 US.

heretofore mailed or filed their claims or notice in writing
thereof within the time and in the manner prescribed by
said Act, if the proof in support of said claims clearly
shows them to be based upon action taken in response to
such request, demand, solicitation or appeal,, shall be reimbursed such net losses as they may have incurred and are
in justice and equity entitled to from the appropriation in
said Act." And by the Act of June 7, 1924, 43 Stat. 634,
the limitation of the aggregate amount to be disbursed
under the Act of 1919 was repealed.
Section 5, the proviso referring to expenditures "for or
upon property" containing the minerals, and the amendment of 1921 are plainly broad enough to include net
losses resulting by reason of expenditures for the purchase of property and leave no room to doubt that it was
the purpose of Congress to empower the Secretary to take
them into account in arriving at the amount, if any, to be
allowed and paid.
The petitioner argues that the phrase "such net losses
as have been suffered ",excludes claims where, at the time
of the enactment, the purchaser still retained title to the
property. But the net losses mentioned are *not thus
limited. Losses by reason of expenditures f6r property,
real or personal, still owned by claimants are not, excepted.
The purpose is merely to reimburse; loss resulting.from.
speculative investments is excluded; allowance of profits
is forbidden. In determining actual net loss the value of
the property purchased and retained by claimant is necessarily to be taken into account. The construction for
which petitioner contends necessarily rests upon the ,hypothesis that one may not suffer loss by reason of expenditures for land while he continues to own it. No such
assumption can be entertained, 'for it is everywhere
known that the co1ftrary is true, and that the value of
lands and plants purchased and constructed to produce

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
231

Opinion of the Court.

minerals and other things needed wholly or bjrincipally
to carry on the war was liable to, and in fact generally
did, greatly and permanently decline when. the struggle
ended. And, in support of his contention, petitioner invokes history of the legislation, but that is not here permissible, for the language and meaning of the statute in respect of the question under consideration are clear.
United States v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 278 U. S. 269,
278.
The conclusion is plain. The Secretai'y is required to
proceed to ascertain whether relator, on March 2, 1919,
had incurred net loss by reason of the expenditure of
$16,259 for such land; and, if he shall find that-relator has
suffered such a loss, then the Secretary, having regard to
the safeguards and limitations specified in the statute,
shall determine how much, if any of the net loss so
found the relator is "in justice and equity entitled to
from the appropriation in said Act."
,No. 67
March 5, 1919, relator filed with the Secretary of the
Interior a claim for losses by reason of expenditures for
the production of pyrites under the conditions specified in
§ 5. The claim included items of interest on money borrowed, so expended and lost by relator. The Secretary
and his successors, including petitioner, have uniformly
held that the statute proibits any award on, account of
such interest and have disallowed all claims, therefor.
After the passage of the Act of 1929, relator brought this
suit for mandamus to compel the Secretary to take jurisdiction and allow such interest.' The court held the
An earlier application for mandamus was granted by the Supreme
Court. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 298 -Fed. 839. But this
court reversed (267 U. S. 185) following its contemporaneous decision
in Work v. Rives, 267 U. S. 175.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Secretary rightly construed the statute and dismissed the
petition, the Court of Appeals reversed, 47 F. (2d) 424,
and we granted a writ of certiorari, 283 U. S. 817.
The amount of interest that at the time of the passage
of the Relief Act March 2, 1919, had been paid or in-.
curred by relator for money borrowed and lost in producing and preparing to produce pyrites upon the specified
conditions is to be taken into account in determining the
amount of its net loss as of that date. It constitutes a
part -ofrelator's expenditures and cost of the undertaking
and so is within the terms of the section as amended.
'United States v. New York, 160 U. S. 598, 621--624_ But
the mere fact that such interest was lost does not entitle
relator to have, or warrant the Secretary in allowing, any
part of it. It must be shown clearly that such interest
was paid or the obligation incurred by relator at the in-stance of one of the specified governmental agencies.
And the Secretary, upon- a consideration of all the. circumstances and with due regard to the provisions of the
section as amended, must be satisfied, and determine as a
matter of fact, that an allowance on account'of such interest is just and equitable and that the loss is one for
which relator in justice and equity is entitled to be reimbursed from the appropriation.
As we sustain the construction placed upon the statutes
by the Court of"Appeals, the cases willbe remanded to
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia with directions to award a writ of mandamus requiring the Secretary of the Interior to proceed to an examination and
adjustment of the claim. in question conformably to the
statutes as here construed. Subject to this direction the
judgment of the Court of Appeals in each case is
Affirmed.

