MARINE TRANSIT CO. v. DREYFUS.

* '
248:

263

Syllabus.

:The order of the District Court refusing an interlocutory injunction is'ieversed, and the cause is remanded with
direction to grant the injunction as prayed.

Revered..
M

I

TRANSIT CORP. Lv A. v. DREYFUS.

CERTORi To THE CCUIT COURT dF APPzAw goR T
"OND CMCUIT.

A.
SEC-

No. 172. Argued December 10, 11, 1931.-Decided January 4; 1932.
Cargo was lost through the alleged fault of the.carrier while being
towed in. a canal-a navigable water of the United. States-under
a fiaritime contract providing that all dispiltes under it should
be arbitrated before a designated board,- whose -decision -hould
*be final and binding. .The cargo owners, proceeding in a District
Court of the United States in admiralty, filed a libel for damages
against the carrier and also libeled the tug bel6nging to the carrier
which was charged with having occasioned the loss. The carrier
answered as respondent and also as clainant of the tug, and
released th latter-by a stipulation for value. Held:
1. The proceedings were:witliin the jurisdiction of the-court ofadmiralty. *P. 271.
2. Under the United States Arbitration Act, the court had au: thority'to direct that the issues arising under the contract between
the cargo owners and the cariier be arbitrated, as provided by
the contract, and to confirm the award of the arbitrators.

Pp. 274, 276.
3. Under the agreement that the award should be "final and
binding," the carrier was bound by the"award against it, both as
respondent and as owner and claimant of the tugi and.adecree
against it upon the award was authorized by § 8 of the Act. .P. 276.
4. The fact that the award in this case was signed by only four,
-of the five arbitrators is not a valid objection to the decree en-forcing it, since it does not appear by the record that the agreement required unanimity (the statute being silent on the subject,)
or that any specific objection raising the point was made on the
motion for confirmation. P. 276.
5. Whether the ..admiralty court committed error in decreeing
against the stipulator as well as the respondent-claimant, will not
be decided when the stipulator has not sought review in this Court.
P. 277.

244

OCTOBER."TEIRM, 1931.
ArgumnV for-PEtitioners.

284 U.S."

6. In authorizing admiralty eburth to require specific performance
of Valid stipulations for arbitration i1-maritime contracts; and to
enter .decrebs on awards found to be regilhr and in accordance with
.the agree mtents, Congress did not infringe upon the judicial power
as extended to cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. 'P.
277.

49 F.(2d) 215, -affirmed.

-

CERTIORAm, post, p, 601, t-reyiew a decree in admiralty,
.ina loss-of-cargo case, enforcing an agreement to, arbitraf ' and the award of he arbitrators.

Mr. Horace-L. Ceyney. for petitioners

.

The Arbifration Act ;is unconistitutional because it deprives, the 'federal courts of their-judicial power. and-giyes
it to laymen.

-

-

-When those. courts are created by Gohgress, they are'
automatically vested with the: judicial power under § 1
of, Art. III of the Constitutio.
Congre fay -fail to
'create inferior federal courti; but, wfhen .created, they pan
not be deprived by it of the judicial power under ihe Constitufion' Nashville v. Cobpir, 6 Wall. 247;- line-v.
Burke ConstructionCo.,. 260 U. S. 226; United State v.
Burlington County Ferry Co., 21 "Fed..331; Harrison v.
Hadley, 2 Dill. 229,-Fed. Cas.'No. 6,137; Manley v.-Olney,.
32 Fed. 708; Schrauger& Johnson v. Phils Bernard Co.,
,240 Fed. 131; Tn re Hollins, 229 Fed. 349; Farrellv,Wa.-

terman S. S. Co., 291 Fed. 604; Ex parte Bakelite Corp.,
279 U. S. 438.
Red Cross Line v. Atlantic FruitCo., 264"U..S.109,' arose
under the arbitration laws of-the State'of Ne* York -and
does not concern the Federal Arbitration Act at all. We
find nothing in the.opinion sustaining .the statement that
this Court held there was no constitutional impediment"
against an arbitration clause.
.The court below erred in holding that-Congress'had the
power to enlarge -thejurisdiction 'ofthe admiralty :crts,
by conferring upon them the .ecuitable. powier- of specific
performanwe.. The power to enforce specific performance
-of a contract. is -certainly one which is not -vested in a'

'

MARINE TRANSIT CO. v.- DREYFUS.
263

Argument for. Petiioners.

court of admiralty, under the well established law as to
its jurisdiction. The Eclipse, 135 U. S.'599; Kynoch v.
The S. C. Ives, Fed. Cas. No. 7,958; Red Cross -Line -v.
Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109.
Congress can not enlarge the jurisdiction of the courts
of admiralty. The determination of what matters fall
within 'their juiisdiction is a purely judicial. questionr
The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558; The Black Heath" 195
U. S. 361.
. There is nothing in the decisions of this Court supporting the contention that , court of admiralty has power to
enforce specific performance as a remedy incident to its
jurisdiction. Distinguishing: Hartford Accident 'Co. v.
Southern PacificCo., 273 U. S. 277; Morse Dry Doek Co.
v. The ANorthern Star, 271 U..5, 552; Norwich'& N.. Y.
Transp. Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104.
The court-below erred in holding that the provisions of
§ 8. of the Act are independent of the other sectionsi
instead of construing the Act as a whole. Section 8 has
no application" to this case.
As the provisions of § 8 have application only in proceedings in rem and to cases where there is an attachment
of the property of the. respondent, the District Court had
no power under that section to niake an order for arbitration of the proceeding against the Marine Transit Coiporation in personam.
The libellants' only method of obtaining arbitration,
under the terms of the Act, was by an independent proceeding by petition under the provisions of § 4.
- Under § 9, a judgment may be entered upon the award
of the arbitrators only if the parties have so agreed by
their -contract for the arbitration.
Under § 1, the courts have jurisdiction only over mari-.
time transactions and.contracts involving either interstatb
or foreign commerce. The contract here was ,for intrastate carriage only.-

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondents.

284 U.S:

- All sections of .the Act were to be construed together
and harmonized,' if possible, and no arbitration could be
ordered except in cases falling within. the terms of § § 1
and 2. Zip Mfg. Co. v. Pep Mfg. Co., 44 F. (2d) 184.
Neither of these sections applies to purely intrastate
transactions or commerce.
Here the contract was for intrastate carriage, and under
§ 1 the question was as to the character of the contract
and not the nature of the shipment.
Issuance of execution against the stipulator for the tug,
although no decree was entered against the tug, was
clearly erroneous, in conflict with the uniform law upon
the subject.
The court erred in holding that it was not necessary
that the award should be signed by all the arbitrators. In the absence of any provision on the. subject in theArbitration Act, it is fairly to be assumed that Congress
intended that the award of arbitrators, like the verdict of
a jury, should be unanimous.

Mr. George V. A. McCloskey for respondents.
The Arbitration Act is constitutional. Berkovitz v.
Arbib & Houlberg, 230 N. Y. 261; Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109; Marchant v. Mead-Morrison Mfg. Co., 29 F. (2d) 40, certiorari denied, 278 U. S.
555; Atlantic Fruit Co. v. Red Cross Line, 5 F. (2d) 218;
The Gansfjord, 25 F. (2d) 736, 767, affirmed 32 F. (2d)
236; Jackson v. The Magnolia, 20 How. 296, 300; Kline
v. Burke ConstructionCo., 260 U. S. 226, 233, 234; Mayor
v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 247, 251, 252. Cf. Washingtonv. W. C.
Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219.
The Act, so far from depriving the district courts of
jurisdiction-for all their jurisdiction is purely statutory
and not by constitutional grant-has efilarged their jurisdiction to embrace the enforcement of arbitration agreements, nof only by ordering such arbitration to proceed

IMARInE TRANSIT CO. v. DtEYFUS.

267

Argumjent for Respondents.

263

but by entering deciee.upon the*award. _'Petitioiaers'argument against arbitrators is equally- applicable against the
use- of :special -commissioners,-a practice of admiralty
since the organization of the Government. Even the
merits of a cause-may by consent of parties, (though not
othei&wise "save- in 'exceptional c6nditions;, as in The P.
R. ,R..No.' 35,48 -F.*(2d)'122); be referred to-a conmissioner (Tke BronX, 246 Fed. 809; Luckenbach v. Delaware, L.'& W. R. Co., 168 Fed.' 560) ;_and it is precisely
such :consent-.' that' supports a reference to arbitrators.
Cf.- Hardware-De&ersMut.'Fire Ins: Co. v. Glidden Co.,
284 U. S,'151.
Congress haif the c6nstitutional' power to confer upon
admiralty courts the .procedural power to require specific
performance 'of"'rbitation agree'merits affecting causes
within their jurisdiction. Sozithern Pacific Co. v. ensn,
244 U.' S. 205;215; The No.."V, 241 -Fed. 69; 71; The
Northern Star,.271 U.S. 552; Bogart v. The John Jay, 17
H iw. 399, 402; 'Hartfori Accidenti& Indemnity Co. v.
Southern Pacific Co. '273' U. S.-207, 217, 218; Nori'ich
Co.'v. Wight, 13 ,Wall i.0'4 123.
The action was in' rem within §'8 'of this Acd." Sections
4 'nd 8; authoriziig suit' to eiforce a viola~ted'areement
to arbitrate, 're inepen'ffeni of §'9, which" relates, not to"
proceedings td6 oPiel the arbitratidn, but to procbding
instituted: ft'f"eaward'
The' shipment 'vas'in fact an 'iiterntion sipment,
and-in any evehit' th'&Act is apPlicable.
Decree- wiith' ditection fbr 'issuahce6 6f execution was.
properly 6ntered against th petitiofier and its stipulator.
The ob~ectioi that the award-was"nof'signed by a'the
arbitrators is: insubstL.ntial,' w'as not taken in the District
C6hrt, aid was not assigne-as eirror.'
specialle

of' oui

Cohen and 'Kenialoth

e in-t
by

speiallb- eofCouft;: filed a brief on behalf of the Chain-

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284U.S.

ber of Commerce of the State of New York et al., as
amici curiae.
MR. C=Inthe Court.

JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

The .petitioner, Marine Transit Corporation, entered
into a written booking agreement with the respondents,
Louis Dreyfus & Company, to furnish insurable canal
tonnage for about 200,000 bushels of wheat, to be carried
from Buffalo to New York. The contract provided that
it should be "subject to New York Produce Exchange
Canal Grain Charter Party No. 1 as amended." That
charter party contained the following provision as to
disputes:
"All disputes arising under this contract to be arbitrated before the Committee on Grain of the'New York
Produce Exchange whose decision shall be final and
binding."
Under this contract, the Marine Transit Corporation,
in September, 1928, provided the barge Edward A. Ryan
to carry 19,200 bushels of the above-stated amount. This
was a shipment, as the bill of lading of the Marine Transit Corporation shows, to the order of the Bank of Nova
Scotia and was from Fort William, Ontario, 'in bond,
for export,' to be delivered 'on surrender of original
Lake bill of lading properly endorsed.' While in tow of
the petitioner's tug Gerald A. Fagan on tie New York
Barge Canal, and approaching the federal lock at -Troy,
the Edward A. Ryan struck the guide walYand sank with
its cargo. The respondents, Louis Dreyfus & Company,
filed a libel in admiralty against the Marine Transit Corporation in personam, and against the tug Gerald A.
Fagan, in rem, to recover damages for the loss of the
wheat. The libel was also against a barge John E. Enright, one bf the boats in the tow, but-the action as to
that boat was subsequently discontinued. A claim for

MARINE TRANSIT CO. v. DREYFUS.
263

Opinion of the Court.

the tug GeraldA. Fagan was made by the Marine Transit
Corporation and a stipulation for value was filed byit,
as claimant, in the sum of $26,000, with the usual provision that the stipulation should be void if the claimant
and the stipulator (the Continental Casualty Company)
should abide by all orders of the court and pay the amount
awarded by its final decree, and that otherwise the stipulation should remain in full force.
After answer to the libel had been filed by the Marine
Transit Corporation, as respondent and as claimant of the
tug GeraldA. Fagan,the libellants moved for a-reference
of the dispute to arbitration in accordance with the pro.vision of the booking contract. This motion was granted
"only as.t6 the issues raised by the contract between the
libellants and the Marine Transit Corporation," and the
latter was ordered to submit to arbitration as to these
issues before the Committee on Grain of the New York
Produce Exchange. The arbitration proceeded and resulted in an award against the Marine-Transit Corporation for the sum 6f $23,016, with interest and the costs
and expenses of the arbitration. The award was confirmed by the District Court and an order-in substance,
a-final decree-was entered for the recovery.by the libel'-.
lants against the Marine Transit Corporation of the
amount of'the award, with the further provision that, if
payment was notmade within ten days, execution should
issue against the Marine Transit Corporation and the
stipulator. A motion to restrain the libellants from recovering from the claimant or its stipulator on behalf of
the tug GeraldA. Faganwas denied. The decree entered
upon the, award was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 49 F. (2d) 215, and the case comes here on-writ
of certiorari.

There is no question that the co0itroversy between the
petitioner and the respondents was within the arbitration
clause of the booking-contract. That provision was valid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109, 122,
and, as it related to all disputes arising under the contract,
it applied to the controversy with the Marine Transit Corporation as operating owner of the tug Gerald.A. Fagan
which was used for the agreed transportation. The questions presented are (1) whether the action of the District
Court was authorized by the United States Arbitration
Act,' and (2) whether that Act, as thus applied,' is constitutional.
'Act of February 12, 1925, c. 213,,43 Stat. 883; [U. S. C., Title 9,
The title of the Act and §§ 1 to 4, inclusive, and §§ 6, 7,
8, a portion of § 9, and §§ 13 and 14 are as follows:
"CHAP. 213.-An Act To make valid and enforceable written
provisions or agreements for arbitration of disputes arising out of
contracts, maritime 'transactions, or commerce among the States or
Teriitories or with foreign nations.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That 'maritime
transactions,' as herein defined, means charter parties, bills of~lading
of water carriers, agreements relating-to wharfage, supplies furnished
vessels or repairs to vessels, collisions,, or any other matters in foreign
commerce which, if. the subject of controversy, would be embraced
within admiralty jurisdiction' 'commerce," as herein defined means
commerce among the several States dr with foreign nations, or in any
Territory of the United States or in the District of Columbia, or
between any such Territory and another, or between any such Territory and any State or foreign nation, or between the District of Coliumbia and any State or Territory or foreign nation, but nothing
herein contained shall apply to contracts of employment of seamen,
railroad employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign
or interstate commerce.
"Sec. 2. That a written provision in any maritime transaction or
a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by
arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or
transaction, or the refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof,
or an agreement in writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract, transaction, or refusal, shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable; save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.

§§ 1-15].

MARINE TRANSIT CO. v: DREYFU&
263-..

271

Opinion of the Court.

FFirst. 'In construing,.the-statute; we deal only.with the

questions raised by the present record., The loss occurred
"Sea 3. That if -any suit or proce dig be brought in any of the
courts of .the United States upon any issue- referable to arbitration,under an agree'ment in writing f6r s uch arbitration,: the court in.
such suitis peinding, upon behag sati;fied that the issue involved
wh
in-such-suit -or pro ceeding-is referable to -arbitration under such an"
agreement, shall Gn applatkon of one of the parties stay the trial of
accordance with
the 'action until such abitration has been -had
the terms of ' the agree'ent, providing the 'appliant for the stay is
n6t- n-default -i proceeding with such arbitration.
Sec. 4' Thata"party 'aggrieve by the allege4 failure,. negect, or
i
refusal of another to arbitrate under a written agreement-for arbitration may petition any court-of the United States which, save for such
greeinent"wbuld havejurisdictionuuider-the judicial code at law,

in, equity,, 6r in admiralty of-the subject matter of a. suit arising out
of the controversy between'the pairties, for an order directing that
such arbitrAti6oiproceed n the"m anner provided for in such agree-.

ment' Five days" notice in writing of such application shall be served.
upon the partyin default' Sevic thereof shal be made in the mann6r p&ided by law for 'the serice of summons in the jurisdiction in
which tha proceeding is-brodught." The court shall hear the parties,
g6nl
bf the agreement for arbiand upon being satisfied thdi'the j
trationzor the -failure to comply 'therewitliis not in issue, the court
shM make an order directingdthe 'parties to proceed to arbitration
d, That the
in accordance with the terms of the agieement. Pro

heafrig and proceedings undii'such agr~ernent shall be 'within the
district in which-the petition: foi an 6rder directing such arbitration
is fdied. A'If the making 6f theirbitration agreement or the failure,
neglect, r'rbfusal to.I'prforn thb saii be hr issue, the court shall
proceed , summarily to the trial'thereof. If no jury trial .be demanded
*by the p rty alleged to be in default, or if the'matter in dispute is;
within admiralty jurisdiction, the'&curt shall hear and determine such
issue. Where such an' issue i raised, the party aleged to be in default may, except in cases of admiralty, on or before the return day
of the notice of application, demand a jury trial of such issue, and
upon such demand'the court shalt. make'an order referring the issue
orlisues to a:,jury in the'manner provided bylaw for referring to a
jury issues in an equity 'action, or may secially ,call a jury for that
purpote. If the'jury find that no agreemennt in writiig for arbitration

-

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
O
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

upon a waterway which was part of the-navigable waters
of the United States, The Robert W. Parsons,191 U. S.
17, and while the catgo -was being transported by the
petitio-iir under a maritime contract. The subject mat-

ter of the controversy th
admiralty.

!say
within the jurisdiction of

The ambiguities of the. statute have been

was made or that, there is no default in proceeding thereunder, the.
pioceeding shall be dsmissed. If the jury find that an agreement for
arbitration was made in writing and that there is a default in proceeding thereunder, the court shall make an order summarily directing the parties, to proceed. with the arbitration in accordance with the
terms thereof.,
-

"Sec. 6. That any application to the court hereunder shall be
made and heard in the manner provided by lawfor the making and
hearing of motions, except as otherwise herein expressly provided.
"See. 7. That the arbitrators selected either-as prescribed in this
-Act or otherwise, or a:majority of them, may summon in writing any
person to attend before them -or any of them as a witness and in a
proper case to bring with him or them any book, record, document,
or paper whish "mybe deemed material as evidence in the ease.
,The fees for such attendafice shall be the same as the fees of witnesses before, .masters -pf the United States courts. Said summons
shall issuein the name of the arbitrator or arbitrators, or a majority
of them, and shall be signed by the arbitrators, or a majority of.
.them,,and shall be directed to the said pirson and shall be served
:in the same manner as subp6enas to appear and testify before the
court; if any person or perso'ns so summoned to testify shaU refule
or neglect to obey said-summons, upon petition the United States
*court in and for the district in which such arbitrators, or a iajorityof them, are sitting.may compel the attendance of such person or
persons before said arbitrator or arbitrators, or punish ,sadid person"
or pseons for contempt i' the same manner now provided-Jor securing' the attendance of,witnesses or their punishment for neglect or
refusal to attna in the courts of the.Unite-S~ttes.
"Sec. 8. That if the basis of jurisdiction be a cause of action other-wise justiciable in admiralty,, then, notwithstanding anything lerein
to tie contrary, the, party claiming to be aggrieved may begin his
proceeding hereunder by libel and seizure of the vessel or other property of the other party According to the usual course of admiralty,

MARINE TRANSIT CO.v. DREYFUS.
W3'

273

-opinion of the Court.

'

stressed in argument, but we thik- that its provisions
embrace a case sudh-as'the'one befbre us2 and.it'is not
necessaryt-7 discuss 6thers; .Section 4 authorizes'a court,
which would otherwise, have ju"iwiction in aidmiralty
""of the subject-mattEr of a suit arising oit'of "Ihecontroproceedings, and the colirt shall then have juesdiction to•'direct the
parties to proceed' ith the -arbitration:and shall retain jurisdiction'
,toenter its decree upon the award.
I"r
Sec. 9. If the parties in their, agreement hive, agreed that a
Judgment of the- ourt "shall .be entered upon the award made pursuant to the arbitratih and shall specify the court, then at any time
within, one .year after the award is made any party to the arbitration
may aply to-the .court so specified 'for an order confirming the
.award, an4 thereupon the court must'grant such an order'unless the
award is vacated, modiied, .or corrected'as prescribed in. the next
two sections. If no court isspecified in the agreement of the parties,
then' such application may be -made to the United States court; in
and for thedistrict within which such award was made.
"See. 13.. That the'party moving for an order confirining, modify.ing, or correcting an award shall, at the time such order is' filed
with the clerk for'th nryof judgment thereo
t
n-also
ing papers -withthe clerk:
"(a) The agree'ment; the selection or.appointment, if any, of an
additional arbitrator or umpire; and each written 'extension of the'
'time,'if any, within which to make the award.
4'(b) The.award.
"(c) Each notice, .affiavit, or otler paper used upon an application to. confirm, modify; or correct the award, and a copy pf each
order-of the 'court upon suchi an application.
"The j dgnent shall be docketed as if it wp-.rendered in. an action.
"The judgment so entered shall have the sme force and effect,
in all respects,-as, and'be subject to all the, provisions of law relating
to, a 'judgment in an action;. and it may be enforced as if it had been
rehdered in'an action inthe court in which it is entered.
i' Sec. 14. That this-Act-may-be .referred to as 'The United States
*

SArbitration Act!'

,

S•°-The Commitee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives,
in its report upon the bill, which with the -Senate amendment became
the Act-in question, said:
85912,

--

:_.18. "

274

OCTOBER TERM. 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284-U.S.

yersy between the parties' to a written agreement for
arbitration, to 'make an. order directing the parties to
proceed to arbitration in accordance- with* the terms of
the agreemexnt.' Section 8 explicitly provides that where
a. cause of action. is ' othirwise -justiciable in admiralty,
then, notwithstan$Iing anything herein to the contrary,
the party claiming to be aggrieved may begin his proceeding hereunder by libel and seizure of the vessel -or
'other property. of the other party according to the! usual
cburse of admiralty proceedings,' and the court may then
'direct the 'parties.to proceed .with .the arbitration and
shall'retain jurisdiction to enter its. decree up6n, the
award.'
In this instance, the libel against the vessel came
directly within the provision of § S. But the petitioner
insists- that the District Court 'had no power under that
section to make an order for arbitration of the proceeding
against the Marine Transit Corporation, in personam.
,Sebtion ,8, it is said, applies ' only to proceedings in rem or
proceedings in personam where there has been an attachment of the property of the respondent,' and there was
no such attachment in this case. And it is contended that,
aside from §-8, the Act'does iiot provide for the granting
..of an order- for :arbitration '.in a pending suit.' With
respect to the last contention, it may be observed that § 3
provides for'a stay in a pending suit until arbitration has
been.ha&in accordance with the terms of the agreement,
and it would be an anomaly if the court could grant such
a stay and could not direct the arbitration to proceed,
"The purpose of this bill is to make valid and enforcible agreements for arbitratioh contained in contracts involving interstate commerce Or- within the jurisdiction of admiralty, or which may be the.
subject of litigation in the federal - courts. . ...
The remedy is
founded also upon the federal control over interstate commerce and
over admiralty." House Rep. No; 96, 68th Cong., 1st sess. See,
also, Cong. Rec., vol. 66, pt. 3, 68th Cong., 2d sess., pp. 3003i.3004.

MAfRINE TRANSIT CO. v. DREYFUS.
263

Opinion of the Court.

although the court, admittedly, could have made an order
for the arbitration if no suit had beei brought. We think
that the petitioner's argument is based upon a misconception of the statute. The intent of § 8 is to provide for
the enforcement of the agreement for arbitration, without
depriving the aggrieved party of his right, under the
admiralty practice, to-proceed against ' the vessel or other
property' belonging to the other party to the agreement.
The statutorr, provision does not contemplate" the vessel
.or other property,' which may be seized, as being the party.
to' the arbitration agreement. By the express terms of
§ 8, the libel and seizure are authorized as an initial step
in a proceeding to enforce the agreement for arbitration,
and it is. the parties to. that agreement who may be
directed to proceed with the arbitration. Here, the
Marine Transit Corporation was the party to-the arbitra-.
tion agreement., It had used the tug as a facility for the
transportation of the libellants' Wheat, and the dispute
as to liability was within the- promise to arbitrate. If
there was to be, An order for arbitration, it wohlcI appropriately run against the Marine Transit Corporation'to
enforce tbat obligation. It was not iecessary or proper
that the order should run against the tug. Nor was it
necessary that the court in directing'the arbltration should
attempt to split the proceeding with respect to the'
demand in the suit in personam against the corporation
and that in rem against the tug. The Marine Transit
Corporation was before the court both as respondent and
asowner and claimant of the vessel seized, and the agreement to arbitrate bound the corporation in both capacities.
We conclude that the order. directing the arbitration of
the issues arising under the contract between the libellants"
and the Marine: Transit' Cdrporation was authorized by
the statute.
We do not conceive it .tobe open to question that, where
the court has authority under the statute, a. 'we find

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

that it had in this case, to make an order for arbitration,"
the court. also has authority to confirm the award or to
set it-aside for irregularity, fraud, ultra vires or other
defect.- Upon the motion to. confirm the award in this
case, objections to the .proceedings before the arbitrators
were overruled by the District Court and are not. pressed
here. It is, however, urged against the award that it
was signed by only four of' the five arbitrators., The statute is silent with respect to a decision by a majority',but
it does authorize actioA by a majority in compelling the
attendance of witnesses (§ 7). 'in the absence of statutory
requirement, the question as to the necessity of unanimity in thedecision on the merits would be determined by
the arbitration agreement, and, it does not appear that
under the agreement in this instance unanimity was
needed. Nor does the record show that specific objection
upon this point was taken in the District Court upon the
motion for confirmation; and the rules of the New York
Pr6duce Exchange with respect to arbitrations under its
Canal Grain Charter Party No. 1 (to which the petitioner's booking agreement-was made..subject) are not set.
forth. 'We think that there was no error in the ruling
of the Circuit Court of Appeals upon this point.
The petitioner also insists that, under § 9; a judgment
'may be entered upon the award only' if the parties have
so agreed in their contract for arbitration and that the
agreement here does not so provide. But the 'agreement for arbitration stipulated that the award should be
'final and binding.' , The award was accordingly binding
upon the Marine Transit Corporation both as-respondent
and as the owner and claimant of the tug, and the bigti-ict Court enter.d its decree upon the award against that
corporation under the authority expressly conferred by
§8.
-See §§.1O to 12.

MARINE TRANSIT CO. v. DREYFUS.
263

277

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals also upheld the decree
as'against the-stipulator, as'its stipulation conformed to
Admiralty-Rule 8 of the Southen District of New York"
and the, decree, was in accord with the stipulation and adniralty -practiqe. T" Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 1, 10; The
'Wanata, 95 U. S. 600, 611. We express no doubt as to
the correctness of this conclusion, which the petitioner
-contests, but we have no occasion to deal with the question, as {he stipulator has taken no steps to obtain a
review of the decree in this Coirt.
We find no ground for disturbing the decree as unauthorized by the statute.'
Second.*The constitutional question raised by this
.application of the statute, is wh~ther it is compatible
with the maintenance of the judicial power of the United
States as extended to cases of admiralty and iiaritime
jurisdiction (Const. Art.'III).
In,
Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., supra (at pp.
122, 123), this Court pointed out that in admiralty ' agreemeits to., submit controversies to. arbitration are valid,!,
and that 'reference of maritime controversies to arbitration has long .been common practice.' 'An executory
akkeement,' said 'the court, 'may be made a rule of
court -' and the" substantive rightcreated by an agreement
to submit disputes to arbitration is recognized as a perfect
obligation.' The question, then, is one merely as to the
"power of the Congress to aff6rd a remedy in admiralty to
enforce such an obligatiofi. It was because the question
was .one of remedy only, that this Courtrdecided that a
State, .b virtue of the clause saving to suitors ' the right
'This 'rule is as follows: "Such stipulation shall contain the consent
of the stipulators,'.that if the lib~llant or petitioner reover, the decree may be. entered against .them for an amount not exceeding the amount named in such-stipulation and that thereupon execution may
,issue against their goods, chattels, lands, and- tenements or other r~al
estate."

278

OCTOBER TERM,., 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

of -acommon law-remedy,' " had the power' to confer upon
ifs courts the authority to compel parties within its-jurisdiction to specifically perform an agreement for arbitratioi, which is valid by the general maritime law, as well as
by the law of the State,' and- is contained in a maritime
contract made within the State and there to be peilformed'
Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., supra, at p. 124.
The general power of the Congress to provide remedies in
matters falling within the admiralty jurisdiction of the
federal courts, and to regulate their procedure, is indisputable. The petitioner contends that the Congress could
not confer upon courts of admiralty the authority to grant
specific performance. But it is well settled 'that the Congress, in providing appropriate means to enforce obligations cognizable in admiralty, may draw upon other systems. Thus the Congress may-authorize a trial by jury in
admiralty, as it has done in relation to certain cases arising
on the Great Lakes.6 Courts of admiralty may be empowered to grant injunctions, as in proceedings for-limitation of liability.' Similarly, there can be no question of
the power of Congress to authorize specific performance
when that is an appropriate remedy in a matter within
the' admiralty jurisdiction. As Chief Justice Taney said
in The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, 460: "The Constitution declares that the judicial power of the United States
shall extend to' all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.' But it does not direct that the court shall proceed according to ancient and established forms, or shall
. In adadopt any other form or mode of practice..
Judicial Code, § 24 (3); U. S. C:, Tit. 28, § 41 (3).
'Act of February 26, 1845, c. 20, 5 Stat. 726; R. S. 566, U. S. C.,
it. 28, § 770; The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, 459, 460; The Eagle,
8 Wall. 15, 25.
Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Southern Pacfic Co., 273
U. S. 207, 218.

UNITED STATES v, TRUDELL.

279

Counsel for Parties.

263

miralty and maritime cases there is no such limitation asto the mode of proceeding, and Congress may t4erefore in
cases of that description give either party:right of trial-by
jury, or modify the practice. of the couit in any other
respect that itdeems more conducive to the administration
-of justice."
In this instance a remedy is provided to fit, the agreement. The Congress has authorized the court to direct
the partie§ to proceed to arbitration in accordance with a
valid stipulation of a maritime. contract, and to enter a
decree upon the award found to .be regular and within the
terms of the agreement. We think that the objection on
constitutional grounds is without merit.Decree affirmed,

UNITED STATES

.EX REL. POLYMERIS E AL. v.
TRUDELL, IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR..

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPFALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 162.

Argued December 9, 193.-Decided January 4, 1932.

1. Under the Immigration Act of *May26, 1924, § 13. (a), (b), and

the .executive regulations pursuant thereo, an alien.who was lawfully domiciled in this country but who went abroad for a'temporary visit, cannot reenter unless he has either an immigration
visa or a return permit. P. 280.
2. In habeas corpus-to determine the right of an alien to enter the
* country, the burden of proof is upon the alien.

P. 281...

49 F, (2d) 730, dffirmed.

CERioRRI,.post, p. 601, to review a judgment reversing.
an order of the District Court, discharging two aliens froi
the custody of immigration officers by a writ of habeas
corpus.
Mr. Harold.VanRiper for.petitioners.

