BRADFORD ELECTRIC CO. v. CLAPPER.
206

221

Counsel for Appellant.

actions within a prohibited class. Purity Extract Co. v.
Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201, 204. Ruppert v. Caffey, 251
U. S. 264, 283. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303.
Pierce Oil Corp. v'. Hope, 248 U. S., 498, 500. Euclid v.
Ambler Co., 272 U. S. 365, 388, 3"89. Tyler v. United
States, 281 U. S. 497, 505. Milliken v. United States, 283

U. S. 15, 20.
MR. JUSTI.CE BRAwDEmS and MR. JUSTICE ST6NE concur

in this opinion.

__

_.

BRADFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT CO., INC., v.
CLAPPER, ADMINISTRATRIX.
APPEAL FROM AND PETITIOI& FOR CERTIORARI TO'THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 423. Jurisdictional statement submitted November 23,. 1931.Decided December 7,.1931.
1. A decision of a Circuit Court of Appeals that the policy of a State
allowing, actions for personal injuries due to negligence sustained
within hecr territory can not be changed by contract of the parties,
-made by their acceptance of the workmen's compensation statute
of another State doing away with such actions,--held not a'decision
against the validity of the statute and therefore not reviewable by
appeal. Jud. Code, § 240 (b). Public Service Commission v.
Batesville Telephone Co., ante, p. 6. P: 222.
2. In a case from the Circuit Court of Appeals where appeal does not
lie but has been improvidently taken, application may be made for
a writ of certiorari under .§ 240 (a). The application must be
made within the time limit. P. 223.
Appeal from, 51 F. (2d) 992, 999, 1000, dismissed.

Certiorari granted.
and alplication for certiorari to review a judgment of the Circuit- Court of Appeals affirming a recovery
in an action for personal injuries, which had been removed
from the state court.
APPEAL

Messrs. Wm. E. Leahy and George T. Hughes were on
the brief for appellant,

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U:S.

Mr. John E. Benton was On the brief for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE HUGHES

delivered the opinion, of

the Colrt.
'This action was brought in the Superior Court of New
Hampshire*by the respondent, a citizen of that State, to
recover damages for injuries resulting in the death of
the respondent's intestate, upon the ground of the negligence of his employer, the defendant (appellant and
petitioner here). The case was removed to the District
Court of the United States for the District of New Hampshire. The defendant is a corporation organized under
the laws of Vermont and is engaged in supplying electric
current in both Vermont and New Hampshire. It appeared that the respondent's intestate was a resident of
Vermont and received his injuries in New Hampshire
in the course of his employment. *The contract of employment was made in Vermont and the defendant contended that the parties were bound by the Workmen's
Compensation Act of Vermont and that the acceptance
of the provisions of that Act was a bar to the common
law action. Upon appeal from the judgment in favor
of the respondent, the Circuit Court of Appeals first
sustained the defense and directed reversal, but on rehearing affirmed the judgment. The court said that its
attention had been called to the fact that the defendant
had accepted the Workmen's Compensation Act of New
Hampshire which reserved to the employee ,or his legal
representative an action at law for death caused by
negligence; "that no contract made in Vermont pu'rporting "to-release an employer from liability- for future negligence can bar an action brought in New Hampshire for
an"injury there sustained, and thus'change the public
policy of New Hampshire." 51 F. (2d) 992, 999, 1000.
As the decision of the Circuit Court of' Appeals was not
against the validity of the statute of Vermont, the ap-

BRADFORD ELECTRIC CO. v. CLAPPER.
221

223

Opinion of the Court.

peal to this Court must be dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction. Public Service Commission of Indiana v.
Batesville Telephone Co., ante, p. 6; Baxter v. Continen-.
tal Casualty Co., post, p. 5781.
The question is presented whether, as an appeal has
been taken, the petition for writ of certiorari can be entertained. Section 240 of the Judicial.Code as amended
by the Act of February 13, 1925 (c. 229, 43 Stat. 936,
938, 939; .U.S. C., Tit. 28,. § 347), provides:
"SEC. 240. (a) In any case, civil or criminal, in a circui.t court of appeals, or in"the Court -of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, it shall be competent for the Supreme Court of the United States, upon the petition of
any party thereto, whether Government or other litigant,
to require by certiorari, eithe, before or after*a judgment
or decree by such lower :courty that the cause be certified
to the Supeme Court for determination by it with the
same power and authority, and with like effect, as if the
cause had been brought there by unrestricted writ of
error or appeal.
"'(b) Any case in a :circuit .court of 'appeals where is
drawn, in question the v'alidity of a statute of any state,
.on the ground of its.being repugnant to .the Constitution,
'treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision is
against its validity, may, at the election of the party relying on such state statute, be taken to the Supreme Court
for review on writ of error or appeal, but in that event a
review on certiorari shall not be allowed at the instance of
such party, and the review on such writ, of error or appeal
sall be restricted to an examination and decision of the
federal questions presented in the case.
°'(c) No -judgment or decree of 'a circuit court..of appeals or of the Court of Appeals of the District of Colum'bia. shall *be subject to review by the Supreme Court.
otherwise than -as provided in this section."
The question is whether the general authority of this
Court, under paragraph (a) of this section, "in any case

224

2 OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

in a circuit court of appeals . . . to require by certiorari" that the cause be 'certified to this Court for
determination, is limited in a case like the instant one by
the concluding clause of paragraph (b). Under the latter
paragraph an appealI may be taken to this Court "at
the election" of the party relying on the state statute
the validity of which has been denied by the decision of
the circuit court of appeals on the ground of its being
repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws.of'the
United States, and "in that 'event" a review on certiorari
is not to be allowed at the instance of such party. This
provision is in obvious contrast with that of § 237 (c) of
the Judicial Code as amended by theAct of February 13,
1925, U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 344 (c), relating to appeals from
judgments of state courts and providing in such cases that
papers on an appeal improvidently sought may be treated
as a petition for certiorari. But the event to which the
limitation of § 240 (b) applies, in the case of appeals
from the circuit court of appeals, is that an appeal will
lie as provided and has been taken. If the case is one in
which the, circuit court of appeals has not denied validil y
to a statute of a State upon,:the ground. specified, no appeal will lie and the bringing of the appeal in such a case
has no effect save to invite its dismissal. As this Court
.has no jurisdiction to entertain the appeal it leaves the
parties as they were. There is no ground for concluding
that it was the intent of the Congress to penalize a party
by depriving him of a right granted because he had made
a mistake in asserting a right not :granted. Accordingly,
we conclude that in a case in a circuit court of appeals,
where no appeal lies, although one has been improvidently
taken, application may be made for a writ of certiorari
under 1§ -240 (a). The applicatioi must be made within
'Writ of error, was abolished by the Act of January 31, 1928, c.
14, 45 Stat. 54, as amended by Act of April 26, 1928, c. 440, 45 stat
466; U. S. C., Tit. 28, §§ 861a, 861b,

VAN HUFFEL v. HARKELRODE.
221'

225

Statement of the Case.

the time limited. Act of February 13,-1925, § 8;.U. S. C.,
Tit. 28, 1§350. It was so made in this' case.
The pe iion for writ of certiorari is granted.
Appeal dismissed. Writ granted.

VAN HUFFEL v. HARKELRODE, TREASURER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF TRUMBULL
COUNTY, AND TO THE SUPREME COURT OV OHIO.

Nos. 54 and 55. Argued October 28, 1931.
1931.

Decided December 7,

1. The bankruptcy courts have power to sell real estate of bankrupts
free from liens of state taxes, transferring the liens-from the property to the proceeds of sale. P. 227.
2. Ohjections that the notice given the state treasurer in this case
was insufficient and that the proceeding to determine* priority of
liens should have been plenary rather than summary,--held not
open'in this Court, not having been made in, or discussed by, the
courts below. P. 229.
3. A decision of a state sulireme court dismissing a petition in error
as of right to review a judgment of in - intermediate court, upon
the ground that the constitutional question raised, and upon which
the jurisdiction of the higher court depended, was not debatable, is
a decision of the merits, so that a writ of certiorari from this Court
should go to the supreme court if it has the record, and not to the
intermediate court. P. 230.
4. In reviewing the judgment of a state supreme-court; .a transcript
of the record in that court, certified by its clerk and filed here with
the petition for eertiorari is, by Rule 43, to be treated as sent up in
response to a formal writ, and in such case there is no occasion to
direct a writ to the intermediate state court to which, under the
rules of the state supreme court, the'recbrd may have been re-.

turned. P. 230.
123 Oh. St. 674; 177 N: E. 587, reversed.
CERTmOR.RI, 283 U. S. 817, to review a judgment of the'
Supreme Court of Ohio, ivhifh, by declining to review, in
effect affirmed on the merits ajudgment of the Court.of ,

Appeals of the State, which hal reversed a decree quiet8 i12o-82------1

.

