UNITED STATES v. MURDOCK.

141-

Syllabus.

136

quires no discussion to show that such returns will not
make against inequality or evasion unless the same interests are the beneficial owners in like proportions of -substantially all of the stock of each of such corporations.
-Alameda Investment Co. v. McLaughlin, 28 F. (2d) .81.
Montana Mercantile Co. v. Rasmusson, 28 F. (2d) 916.
Commissiner v. Adolph Hirsch& Co., 30 F. (2d) 645, 646.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue v. City Button Works,
49 F. (2d) 705. Affiliation on any other basis would not
make against inequality or evasion. It w6uld require very
plain language to show that Congress intended to permit
consolidated returns to depend on a basis so indefinite and
uncertain as control of stock without title, beneficial ownership or legal means to enforce it. Control resting solely
on acquiescence, the exigencies of business or other con-.
siderations having no binding force is not sufficient to satisfy the statute..
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MURDOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 38.

Argued October: 23, 26, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.

1. A judgment of the District Court-sustaining', on demurrer, a plea

to an indictment, and the effect of.which, if not reversed, will be
to bar further prosecution for the offense charged, is within th
jurisdiction of this Court under the Criminal Appeals Act, without
regard to the particular designation -or form of the plea, or its

propriety

P: 147.

2. The offense of wilfully, failing to supply Jinformation for the purposes of computing and assssing taxes, under the Revenue Acts
of 1926, § 114 (a) 'and of 1928, § 146 (a); is complete-when the
information, lawfully demanded, is refused; and prosecution .may

thereupon be had without first determining, in proceedings to comDnR

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the United States.

284 U.S.

answer, the question whether the witness's claim of privilege under
the Fifth Amendment was well taken. P. 147.
3. To justify under the Fifth Amendment a refusal to give information in an investigation under a federal law in respect of a federal
matter, the p~rivilege from self-incrimination must be claimed at the
time when the information is sought -and refused and must be invoked as a protection against federal prosecution; danger and claim
that disclosure may lead to prosecution by a State is not enough.

P. 148.
4. In a prosecution for wilful failure to supply information for the
'computation, etc., of a tax (Revenue Acts, supra,) the claim that
defendant was privileged to keep silent, by the Fifth Amendmient,
is a matter of defense under the general issue of not guilty; and
.the use of a special plea to single this question out for determination
in advance of trial is improper. P. 150.
51 F. (2d) 389, reversed.

under the Criminal Appeals Act, from a judgment of the District Court sustaining a special plea in
bar and discharging the defendant.
APPEAL,

Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Rbeder was on the brief, for the United States.
The ascertainment of facts upon which to base a tax
assessment is with propriety committed to the tax-collecting agencies. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Baird, 194
U. S. 25, 42, 43; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447, 474, 477, 478, 486; 39 Harv. L. Rev. 697,
698. The internal revenue agent properly examined the
witness in order to find out what persons received the
twelve, thousand dollars expended by the witness in 1927
and 1928, so that taxes might be imposed upon such persons. The recipients were subject to taxation even though
the money had been paid to them for failure to enforce
the laws. United States v. Sullivan, 274 U. S. 259.
The agent was entitled to seek judicial aid to compel
the witness to testify, but was not required to do so.
There was nothing to suggest any reason for refusal to
answer the questions other than that the witfiess had been

UNITED STATES v. MURDOCK.
141

143

Argument for the 'United States.

violating the gambling laws of Illinois and had been paying officials of the State for permission to do-so.
A 'witness is not relieved from answering questions
merely because he declares that to do so might incriminate
him. Mason*v. United States, 244 U. S. 362, 366, 367.
The claim of privilege against self-incrimination must be
weighed. In weighing it, the explanations given by the
witness may be quite material, and- in the present case
they were conclusive, for the witness modified his broad
claim and testified that he did not fear any prosecution
under federal law.
The Constitution does not relieve a witness before 'a
federal tribunal of the duty of testifying because he might
thereby incrimifnate himself under the laws of a State.
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.43, 68, 69; Brown v. Walker,
161 U. S.-591, 597; Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311; Jack v.
Kansas, 199 U. S.372, 382;'King of the Two Sicilies v.
Wilcox, 7 State Trials (N. S.) 1050; State v. March, 1
Jones (46 N. C.) 526; Wigmore on Evidence, 2d ed.,.vol. 4,
§§ 2251, 2258, pp. 830, 83i. See Counselman v. Hitch-,
cock, 142 U. S.547; United States v. Saline Bank, 1 Pet.
100; Ballmann v. Fagin,200 U. S. 186; Vajtauer v. Commissioner of Immigration,273 U. S.103; 113.
We perceive no logical basis Tor the application of one
rule in measuring the adequacy and scope of an immunity
statute as a basis for compelling testimony that discloses
aets criminal under state law, and the application of a
contrary rule where, as in this case, it is apparent that.
incrimination is confined to offenses under state law. In
re Willie, 25"Fecd Case No. 14692e; Mason, v. United
States, 244 U. S' 362, 364.
The claim of immunity as made at the hearing may not
be enlirged after the hearing and when the witness is
under prosecution for having refused to testify.
The offense denounced by the-statute was 'complete
when the witness refused to -testify without giving an

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellee.

284 U.S.

excuse which was sufficient at law. He did not then offer
a sufficient excuse. The circumstances show that there
was none. There is nothing to support the suggestion of
the District Court that there was a conspiracy to defraud
the United States. Certainly the witness knew of no
such-conspiracy, for he swore that he did not have in mind
any violation of federal law.
The decision is controlled not merely by the appellee's
failure to claim incrimination under federal law, but upon
a showing affirmatively made and incorporated in the
special plea that there was no possible basis for any such
claim. Mason v. United-States,244 U. S. 362.
The formal allegation in the special plea that the information withheld would have caused -the appellee to be
subjected to prosecution for violations of various laws of
the United States is of no importance, because the - plea
incorporates a correct and authentic transcript of the
questions asked and answers given before the revenue
agent, and this transcript discloses that no claim: was
made of incrimination, under federal law, and, further,
that any such claim would have been utterly without
foundation.
Messrs. Edmund Burke and Harold J. Bandy for

'appellee..
The case is almost identical with Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U.S. 547, and Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591.
The transcript of the proceedings before the internal
revenue agent shows that appellee's fear was well founded.
The agent attempted to extract information from him
showing that he had paid certain persons protection
money in order that he might operate gambling machines
in violation of law. If the money was paid for this unlawful purpose, he had no right to deduct the amounts from
his taxable income; and if the information obtained from
his testimony disclosed that he had made improper and

UNITED STATES v. MURDOCK.
141

Argument fr Appellee.

unwarranted deductions from his taxable income and had
thereby defrauded the Government of tax, he would have
been subjected to prosecution in a federal court for violation of certain penal sections of the Revenue Act. Moreover, inasmuch as he swore to his income tax returns,. he
could have been prosecuted in a federal court for perjury.
In addition to this, if the testimony had shown that he
acted in concert with the recipients of the money to conceal their identity in order that they might be saved from
paying income tax, he could have bebn indicted and
prosecuted jointly with them for conspiracy.
His refusal to answer was based upon solid fact, and he
was protected in that refusal by the Fifth Amendment.
He was the judge of whether his answers might tend to
incriminate him.. The courts should sustain the witness's
claim of privilege unless it is clear that -the evidence obtainable from his testimony could not by any possibility
incriminate him. Ballman v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186;.
InternalRevenue Agent v. SuUivan, 287 Fed. 138.
The indictment of appellee was premature, He was
not-guilty of refusing to supply information as alleged in
the indictment, even if his answers would not have incriminated him. His claim of constitutional privilege
asserted before the revenue agent was of no avail because
the agent was vested with no judicial p6wer and could
not pass upon his claim of privilege. He could not have
been adjudged guilty of refusing to supply informatio I
and of violating these sections of the revenue law until
he had first been summoned and required to appear and
be interrogated in the District Court as provided for by
§§ 1122 (a) and (b) of the Revenue Act of 1926, and
§§ 617 (a.) and- (b) of the Act of 1928, and until there
had been a judicial determination of his claim of constitutional privilege and the court had decided the question
adversely to him and commanded him to answer the questions. Section 1114 (a). of the Act of 1926, and § 146 (a)

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the 'Court.

284 U.S.

of the Act of 1928, upon which this indictment is based
are not complete in themselves. Although providing that
persons who*wilfully fail to supply information shall be
punished, they do not set forth the procedure that the
department must take in order to obtain the information.'
Section 1114 (a) of the 1926 Act must be read with §'1122
(a) of that Act; and § 146 (a) of the 1928 Act must be
read with § 617 (a) of that Act.
There is no merit ii the contention that appellee limited his claim of privilege to a danger of being prosecuted
in a state court for violation of a state law. He.could
only assert his claim in a court of competent jurisdiction.
Se2tion 1122 (a) of the 1926 Act and § 617' (a) of the
1728 Act provided the proper and only procedure to be
followed.
The truth of appellee's'claim,'as sworn to by him in his
special plea, is admitted by appellant's demurrer.
Examination of the trajiscript of his testimony swillshow that ,ineach instance when he reused to answer he
covered the complete field of federal and state law and
did not in any instance limit the grounds of his .refusal.
Whatever limitation seems to appear in appellee's answers
was placed in his mouth by the attorney representing the
I
'department.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion6f the Court.

Appellee filed his individual federal income tax returns
for 1927 and. 1928, and' in each year deducted $12000
which he claimed to have paid to others. An authorized
revenue agent summoned appellee to appear befoie him
and disclose the recipients. Appellee appeared but refused to give the information on -the ground that to do so
might incriminate and. degrade him.
He was indicted for such refusal and interposed a special plea averring that he ought not to be prosecuted under the indictment because, if he had answered the ques- _

. UNITED STATES v. MURDOCK.
141

Opinion of the Court.

tions put to him, he would have given information that
would have compelled him to become a witness against
himself in violation of the Fifth Amendment, and caused
him to be subjected to prosecution in the court below
for violation of various laws of the United States, as shown
by a transcript of the-questions asked and answers -given
which he included in his plea. The United States demurred to the plea on the grounds that it fails to show
that the information demanded would have incriminated
or subjected defendant to prosecution uiider federal law,
and that defendant waived his privilege under the Fifth
Amendment. Thee court overruled the demurrer and
entered judgment discharging defendant.
The judgment necessarily, determined that to require
defendant to' supply the information called for would be
to compel him to incriminate himself and that therefore
he did not unlawfullyor willfully refuse to answer. Its
effect, unless reversed, is'to bar further prosecution for
the offense charged. It follows unquestionably that,
without regard to the particular designation or form of
the plea or its propriety, this court has jurisdiction under
the Criminal Appeals Act.1 United States v. Barber, 219
.U. S. 72, 78. United States v. Oppenheimer, 242 U. S.
85. United States v. Thompson, 251 U. S. 407, 412.
United'States v, Storrs, 272 U. S. 652, 655. *U ited
States v. Goldman, 277 U. S. 229, 236.
The offense charged is defined: "Who willfully fails
supply such information [for the computation of
to...
any tax imposed by the Act] atthe time or times required
writ of error may be taken by and on behalf of the United
2"A
States from the district courts direct to the Supreme Court of the
United States in all criminal cases, in the following instances, to

-wit: ...

"From the decision or judgment sustaining a special plea in, bar,
when the defendant has not been put in jeopardy." 18 U. S. C.,
§ 682. 34 Stat..1246. See also 28 U. S. C., § 345 (2),

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

284 U. .

by law or regulations, shall . . .be guilty of a misdemeanor. 2 Other provisions authorize resort to the district courts to compel attendance, testimony and production of books.3 While undoubtedly the right of a witness
to refuse to answer lest he incriminate himself may be
tested in -proceedings to compel answer, there is no support for the contention that there must be such a determination of that question before prosecution for the willful failure so denounced. By the very terms of the definition the offense is complete at the time of such failure.
Immediately in advance of the examination, appellee's
counsel discussed with counsel for the Internal Revenue
Bureau the. matter of appelle&s privilege against selfincrimination and stated that he hadparticularly in mind
incrimination under state law. And at the hearing appellee repeatedly stated that, in answering "I might
incriminate. or degrade myself," he had in mind "the
violation of a state law alad not the violation of a federal'
law." The transcript included in the plea plainly shows
that appellee did not rest his refusal upon apprehension
of, or a claim for protection against, federal prosecutio M"
The validity of his justification depends, not upon-claims
that would have been warranted by the facts shown, but
upon the claim that actually was made. The privilege
of- silence is -solely for the benefit of *thewitness and is
deemed waived unless invoked. "Vajtauer v. Commis.sioner of Immigration,"273 U. S. 103, 113.,
2
"Any person required ... to ... supjly any information' .for
the purposes 6f the computation, assessment, or collection, of any tax
imposed by this Act,'who willfully fails to ... supply-such information, at the time or times required by law or rejulations, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor . . " 26 U."S. C.,'§ 1265. § 1114 (a),
Revenue Act of. 1926, 44 Stat. 116; 26 U. S. C., § 14O; § 146 (a),
Revenue Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 835
826 U. S. C., §§ 1257, 1258; 1122 (a) (b), Revenue'Act of 1926, 44
Stat. i21. Superseded by26 U. S.C., § 2617; § 617, Revenue Act of
' 1928, 45 Stat: 877,"

UNITED STATES v. MURDOCK.
141

Opinion of the Court.

The plea does not rest upon any claim that the inquiries
were being made to discover evidence of crime against
state law. Nothing of tate concern was involved. The.
investigation was unider federal law in respect of federal
matters. The information sought was appropriate to
enable the Bureau to ascertain wheher appellee had in
fact made deductible payments in each year as stated in
his return, and also to determine the tax liability of the
recipients. Investigations for federal purposes may not
be prevented by matters depending upon state law. Constitution, -Art. VI, § 2. The English rule of evidence
against compulsory self-incrimination, on which historically that contained in the Fifth-Amendment rests, does.
not protect witnesses against disclosing offenses in violation of the laws of another country. King of. the Two
Sicilies v. Wilcox, 7 State Trials (N. S.) 1050, 1068.
Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311, 330. This court has held
that immunity against state prosecution is not essential to
the validity of federal statutes declaring that a witness
shall not be excused from giving evidence on the ground
that it will incriminate him, and also that the lack of state
power to give witnesses protection agaihst federal prosecution does not defeat a state immunity statute. The principle established is that full and complete immunity against
prosecution by the gavernment compelling the witness to
answer is equivalent to the protection furnished by the
rule against compulsory self-incrimination. Counselman
v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547. Brown V. Walker, 161 U. S.
591, 606. Xack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372, 381. Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 68. As appellee at the hearing did
not invoke protection against federal prosecution, his plea
is without merit and the government's demurrer should
have been sustained.
We are of opinion that leave to file the plea should
have been withheld. The proceedings below are indi-

OCTOBER TERM; 193i.

150

Opinion of the Court.

284 U.S.

cated by a chronological statement printed in the margin."
After demurrer-not shown by the record to have been
disposed of-and motions for a bill of particulars and to
suppress evidence which were denied, a plea of not guilty
was entered. The case should then have been tried without further form or ceremony. 18 U. S. C., § 564. The
matters set for 'i in the plea were- mere matters of -defense determinuowle under the general issue. Federal
criminal- procedure is governed not by state practice but
by federal statutes and decisions of the federal courts.
United States v. Reid, 12 How. 361. Logan v. United
States, 144 U. S. 263, 301. Jones v. United States, 162
Fed. 417, 419. United States v. Nye, 4 Fed. 888, 890.
Neither requires such piecemeal consideration of a case.
4 1930
January
February
February
February
May

June
-June
July

23
6
19
25
27

10'
21
1

October

I

October
October

13
17

October

18

October 28
1931
February 3
March

Indictment returned.
Demurrer to indictment.
Additional special, ground for demurrer.
Motion for.bill of particulars.
Motion to suppress evidende and to restrain its use at
trial.
Motion for bill of particulars denied.
Arraignment and plea of not guilty.
Argument on motion to suppress.
Motion to suppress denied.
Leave granted to file special plea.
Special plea filed.
Demurrer to plea filed and 'hearing thereon set for
October 13.
Second and third special pleas filed.
Demurrer to second and third special pleas filed.
Hearing on demurrers.
Demurrer to first special plea overruled; -demurrers to
second and ihird special pleas sustained.
Opinion on demurrers.

Plea of not guilty withdrawn.
Judgment for defendant on first special plea.
4 Appeal allowed.

INSURANCE CO. v. GLIDDEN CO.
141

Syllabus.

A special plea in bar is appropriate where defendant
.claims former acquittal, former conviction or pardon,
2 Bishop New Criminal Procedure (2d ed.) §§'742,799, 805
et seq., but there iq no warrant for its use'to single out
for determination in advance of trial matters of defense.
either on questions of law or fact. That such a practice,
is inconsistent with prompt and effective administration
of the law and is likely to result in numerous hearings,
waste of courts'. time and unnecessary delays is well illustrated by the record in this case. The indictment was
returned January 23, 1930, the judgment before us was.
-entered more than a year later, and it seems certain that
more 'than two years will have elapsed after indictment
before the case ca.fbe reached -for trial>
Judgment reversed.
HARDWARE DEALERS MUTUAL FIRE INSUR-

ANCE CO. 'i. GLIDDEN CO. E AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF- MINNESOTA.

-No. 4. Argued October 16, 1931.-Decided November 23, 1931.
Minnesota, by.statute, requires all fire insurance companies licensed
for business in the State to use a prescribed form of standard policy
in which are lirovisions for determihing by arbitration the amount
of any loss (except total loss on buildings), when the parties fail
to agree upon it. Where one party declines to select an"apliraiser,
the other party may secure; upon due notice, a judicial appointment of an "umpire" to act with the appraiser selected by himself. The decision of this board, if not grossly excessive or inadequate, or procured by fraud, is conclusive as to tlfe 'amouit of the
loss, in an action on the award, but does not determine the judicial
question of liability.under the policy. Held:
1. That the enforcement of such an award against an insurance
company, which had declined to join in the arbitration, does not
violate its rights under the due process and equal protection clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendmenvy although it be assumiied that the-

