BUS & TRANS. CORP. v. HELVERING.
389

391

Syllabus.

fer, the taxpayer remained in existence and continued to
do business. It also retained assets of undisclosed value,
namely, shares of certain subsidiary corporations and some
other property. If the claim of the taxpayer that the
transfer included substantially all its property is correct,
then we think what was done amounted to a reorganization within the statute. The facts in respect of this were
not found by the Board of Tax Appeals, and the cause
must be returned there in order that the omission may be
supplied. The mere fact that the taxpayer and its subsidiaries continued actively in business would not defeat
the claim of reorganization. The ownership of the stock
in the Kraft-Phenix Cheese Corporation gave the taxpayer
a substantial and continuing interest in the affairs of that
corporation.
The judgment of the court below is reversed. The
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals
with direction to that Court to remand the case to the
Board of Tax Appeals for determination of the value of
the retained assets and such further proceedings as may be
necessary.
Reversed.
BUS & TRANSPORT SECURITIES CORP. v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 490. Argued November 20, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.
A corporation transferred shares of stock which it owned to another
corporation in exchange for shares of stock which the latter owned,
neither party to the exchange acquiring any definite immediate
itterest in the other. Held, not a reorganization within ยง 112 of
the Revenue Act of 1928. P. 393.
79 F. (2d) 509, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI *

296 U.S

to review a judgment affirming a decision

of the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained an order
determining a deficiency in income tax.
Mr. Albert E. James for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Red, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner-Bus and Transport Securities Corporation-challenges a deficiency income tax assessment for
1929, and says that the transaction from which the alleged
taxable gain arose was reorganization within ยง 112, Rev.
Act, 1928. Paragraphs (b) (4), (i) (1) and (i) (2) are
specially relied upon.t
Jacobus owned practically all shares of two corporations, herein designated "A" and " B," which operated bus
lines. The Public Service Corporation of New Jerseythe projector-desired to control these lines; and to that
end engineered the following plan.
Public Service Cordinated Transport Company, affiliated with the projector, caused the organization of C.
Easman Jacobus, Inc., took all the stock and paid therefor by transfering 2500 of the projector's shares.
Jacobus caused petitioner to be organized and acquired
all its stock in exchange for all shares of "A" and "B"
corporations. Thereafter petitioner transferred to Public
Service Co~rdinated Transport Company these "A" and
"B " shares and took all shares of C. Easman Jacobus,
Inc.
Thus, petitioner, through Jacobus, Inc., came to control
2500 of the projector's shares. And Public Service
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
t Margin of opinion in Helvering v. Minnesota Tea Co., ante, p. 378.

HILL v. MARTIN.
391

Syllabus.

Cordinated Transport Company became owner of all
shares of "A" and "B" corporations. Through these
manipulations, the projector obtained indirect control of
corporations "A" and "B" and the lines which they
operate.
The Commissioner, the Board of Tax Appeals, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals all rightly concluded that petitioner was not party to a reorganization within the statute. Certain corporate shares owned by it were exchanged for shares which another corporation owned.
Neither party to the exchange acquired any definite immediate interest in the other. Nothing here, we think,
even remotely resembles either merger or reorganization
as commonly understood. Pinellas Ice Co. v. Commissioner, 287 U. S. 462.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.

HILL v. MARTIN, STATE TAX COMMISSIONER,
ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 193.

Argued Novembe.r 11, 12, 1935.-Decided December 16,
1935.

1. Under the law of New Jersey the review by the Supreme Court
of the State of a decree of the Prerogative Court affirming a tax
assessment, is a judicial proceeding as distinguished from an administrative one. P. 400.
2. Upon appeal from a tax assessment, the Prerogative Court of New
Jersey acquires jurisdiction not only to determine the tax due, but
to take proceedings for its collection; and the docketing of its
decree affirming a tax, gives it the effect of a- judgment creating a

lien and enforcible by execution.

P. 401.

Together with No. 194, Dorrance et a!. v. Martin, State Tax Com-

missioner, et al. Appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the District of New Jersey.

