POSADAS v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.

497

Syllabus.

489

under a so-called health-insurance policy.
Robbins, 8 Tenn. App. 435, 437.

Cravens v.
Affirmed.

POSADAS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
CERTIORARI

TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 114. Argued December 11, 12, 1936.-Decided January 6, 1936.
1. Capital and deposit taxes levied by the Philippine Government,
in addition to the taxes permitted by R. S., § 5219, upon branches
of a national bank lawfully established in the Philippine Islands
under § 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, are invalid.
P. 499.
2. The Philippine Islands are a "dependency of the United States,"
within the meaning of § 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, originally
and as amended by the Act of September 7, 1916. Pp. 500, 502.
3. Section 26 of the Organic Act of August 29, 1916, which provides:
"That the laws now in force in the Philippines shall continue in
force and effect, except as altered, amended, or -modified herein,
until altered, amended, or repealed by the legislative authority
herein provided or by Act of Congress of the United States," is to
be taken distributively, i. e., as conferring power on the local legislature to deal only with local laws, and not to alter, amend, or
repeal any Act of Congress. P. 501.
4. The declaration of §§ 6 and 31 of the Philippine Organic Act of
August 29, 1916, continuing in force laws applicable to the Philippines which were not amended or repealed by that Act or in
conflict with any of its provisions, applies to § 25 of the Federal
Reserve Act of 1916. P. 501.
5. The Act of September 7, 1916, which amended § 25 of the Federal
Reserve Act "to read as follows," repeating the words of the original
section and adding a provision authorizing national banks to invest
in the stock of certain other banks, did not repeal and immediately
reenact the old provisions but left them continuously in force and
speaking from the time of their first enactment. P. 502.
6. Section 5 of the Philippine Organic Act of August 29, 1916, which
declares that the statutory laws of the United States "hereafter
33682 -36-

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

enacted" shall not apply to the Islands except when they specifically
so provide or it is so provided in that Act, does not apply to those
provisions of § 25 of the Federal Reserve Act of 1913 which were
copied into and retained by the Act of September 7, 1916.
Pp. 501, 505.
7. Where there are two Acts on the same subject, effect should be
given to both, if possible. P. 503.
8. Repeals by implication are not favored and will not be adjudged
unless the legislative intention to repeal is clear. P. 503.
9. The mere fact that a later statute covers the whole subject of
an earlier one and embraces new provisions does not demonstrate
an intention completely to substitute the new for the old. A
repeal will be implied only so far as the later enactment is in
conflict with the earlier, or so far as it is plainly intended as a
substitute for the earlier. United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88.
P. 503.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment ordering the Collector to refund to the Bank a sum of money which the
Bank had paid to him, under protest, as taxes, and had
sued to recover. The judgment of the Court of First

Instance, directing recovery of only a part of the taxes,
was reversed by the one here unaer review.
Mr. William Cattron Rigby for petitioner.
Mr. Carl A. Mead, with whom Mr. Harry TV. Forbes

was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The National City Bank of New York is organized under the National-Banking Act, as amended from time to
time since its enactment. In 1930 the bank, after complying with the requirements of § 25 of the Federal Reserve
Act of December 23, 1913, c. 6, 38 Stat. 251, 273, as
amended September 7, 1916, c. 461, 39 Stat. 752, 755,
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

POSADAS v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
497

499

Opinion of the Court.

infra, established branches at Manila and Cebu in the
Philippine Islands. A tax was levied by and paid to the
Philippine Government on the net income of these
branches for the first six months of the year 1931 (R. S.
§ 5219),' about which there is no controversy. The Philippine Government, however, in addition, levied capital
and deposit taxes not permitted by § 5219, and, these having been paid by the bank under protest, this action was
brought in the Court of First Instance of Manila to recover the amount. That court gave judgment in favor of
the bank for only a part of the additional taxes; but the
Philippine Supreme Court, upon appeal, reversed the
judgment in so far as it was against the bank, and ordered
a refund of the entire amount.
Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act of 1913, supra,
reproduced in the margin so far as it is pertinent here,'
'See. 5219, Revised Statutes (12 U. S. C. [1934 ed.] § 548), provides that the legislature of each state may "(1) tax said shares, or
(2) include dividends derived therefrom in the taxable income of
an owner or holder thereof, or (3) tax such associations on their
net income, or (4) according to or measured by their net income, . . ." provided certain specified conditions are complied with.
"SEc. 25. Any national banking association possessing a capital
and surplus of $1,000,000 or more may file application with the
Federal Reserve Board, upon such conditions and under such regulations as may be prescribed by the said board, for the purpose of
securing authority to establish branches in foreign countries or dependencies of the United States for the furtherance of the foreign
commerce of the United States, and to act, if required to do so, as
fiscal ageits of the United States. Such application shall specify, in
addition to the name and capital of the banking association filing
it, the place or places where the banking operations proposed are
to be carried on, and the amount of capital set aside for the conduct
of its foreign business. The Federal Reserve Board shall have power
to approve or to reject such application if, in its judgment, the
amount of capital proposed to be set aside for the conduct of foreign
business is inadequate, or if for other reasons the granting of such
application is deemed inexpedient."

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

authorizes the establishment of branches of nationalbanking associations "in foreign countries or dependencies
of the United States." It cannot be doubted that, viewing
this section without regard to later legislation, the
branches here in question were lawfully established; for,
as will appear at a later point in this opinion, the Philippine Islands are included by the words "dependencies of
the United States." In that view of the matter, the additional taxes imposed by the Philippine Government are
invalid under Domenech v. National City Bank, 294 U. S.
199, 204; Talbott v. Silver Bow County, 139 U. S. 438;
and, were it not for the asserted effect of legislation subsequent to the passage of the Federal Reserve Act in 1913,
which we shall examine in a moment, this case would be
disposed of, without further detail, upon the authority of
those cases. In the Domenech case we held that the
national-banking laws extended to Puerto Rico; that a
tax on a branch of a national bank is a tax on the bank;
and that Puerto Rico, being a dependency of the United
States, could not, except as permitted by R. S. § 5219,
tax a national bank, since it is an agency of the United
States. The Talbott case involved the power of a territory to impose a tax upon a national bank. This court
held, in the first place, that the same power of taxation in
respect of national banks exists in the territories as in the
states; and, in the second place, that this:power of taxation in the territories was limited by the provisions of
§ 5219 although in terms that section refers only to the
states. 294 U. S. 204. We find nothing in the original
Organic Act or in any of the early statutes relating to the
Philippines referred to by petitioner which takes those
islands out of the controlling rule of the Domenech case
that "a dependency may not tax its sovereign "; and we
come to the only remaining point which we deem it necessary to discuss.

POSADAS v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
497

501

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner contends that subsequent legislation has the
effect of repealing and abrogating § 25 of the 1913 act,
permitting the establishment of national bank branches,
in so far as the Philippine Islands are concerned. This
later legislation consists of certain provisions in the Organic Act for the Philippine Islands of August 29, 1916,
c. 416, 39 Stat. 545, and the act of September 7, 1916,
supra, amending designated sections of the original Federal Reserve Act.
We examine these statutory provisions in their 'hronological order. By § 25 of the 1913 act, as we have seen,
national banks were authorized to establish branches in
the Philippine Islands. The Organic Act of 1916 provides:
"'Sec. 5. That the statutory laws of the United States
hereafter enacted shall not apply to the Philippine
Islands, except when they specifically so provide, or it is
so provided in this Act.
"Sec. 6. That the laws now in force in the Philippines
shall continue in force and effect, except as altered,
amended, or modified herein, until altered, amended, or
repealed by the legislative authority herein provided or
by Act of Congress of the United States."
(Section 6 obviously is to be taken distributively-that is
to say., as conferring power on the local legislature to deal
only witb local laws. It, of course, confers no power on
the local legislature to alter, amend or repeal an act of
Congress.)
"See. 31. That all laws or parts of laws applicable to
the Philippines not in conflict with any of the provisions
of this Act are hereby continued in force and effect."
By §§ 6 and 31 it is clear that § 25 of the' Federal Reserve Act of 1913, not being in conflict with any provision of the Organic Act of 1916, was continued in full
force and effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

September 7, 1916, nine days after the passage of the
new Organic Act, the act to amend the Federal Reserve
Act, supra, was passed. It, first, is to be observed in respect of this amending act that it does not purport to
enact a substitute for the Federal Reserve Act, or to repeal and re-enact any portion, but only to amend certain
specified sections thereof. The old act contains thirty sections. The act of September 7, 1916, amends §§ 11, 13,
subsection (e) of § 14, the second paragraph of § 16, §§ 24
and 25, and § 5202 of the Revised Statutes. The introductory words as to § 25 are-" That section twenty-five
be, and is hereby, amended to read as follows." The
original section is then copied, the only change or addition, so far as the question here is concerned, being the
insertion of the words "or insular possessions" after the
word "dependencies." No reason appears from anything
called to our attention, and we are not ourselves aware of
any reason, for the addition of these words, since the comprehensive term "dependencies" would seem to include all
insular possessions which we then had. But in any event,
the Philippine Islands constituted a dependency, for they
were not possessions merely, but possessions held by right
of cession from Spain and over which the United States
undoubtedly had supreme power of legislation and government. See United States v. The Nancy, 3 Wash. C. C.
281, 286 et seq. Compare 34 Op. Atty. Gen. 287, 291.
The only substantial change made in the old § 25 is the
addition of a provision authorizing a national-banking association to invest in the stock of other banks and corporations chartered or incorporated under the laws of the
United States or of any state engaged in international or
foreign banking, or banking in dependencies or insular possessions of the United States; and it is fairly plain that
this addition constituted the sole reason for amending the
section.

POSADAS v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
497

503

Opinion of the Court.

The amending act just described contains no words of
-repeal; and if it effected a repeal of § 25 of the 1913 act,
it did so by implication only. The cardinal rule is that
repeals by implication are not favored. Where there are
two acts upon the same subject, effect should be given to
both if possible. There are two well-settled categories of
repeals by implication-(l) where provisions in the two
acts are in irreconcilable conflict, the later act to the
extent of the conflict constitutes an implied repeal of the
earlier one; and (2) if the later act covers the whole subject of the earlier one and is clearly intended as a substitute, it will operate similarly as a repeal of the earlier act.
But, in either case, the intention of the legislature to
repeal must be clear and manifest; otherwise, at least 'as
a general thing, the later act is to be construed as a continuation of, and not a substitute for, the first act and will
continue to speak, so far as the two acts are the same,
from the time of the first enactment.
The law on the subject as we have just stated it finds
abundant support in the decisions of this court, as well as
in those of lower federal and state courts. It will be
enough to direct attention to a few of these decisions out
of a very large number. In United States v. Tynen, 11
Wall. 88, 92, Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court,
after stating the general rule, said that if two acts "are
repugnant in any of their provisions, the latter act, without any repealing clause, operates to the extent of the
repugnancy as a repeal of the first; and even where two
acts are not in express terms repugnant, yet if the latter
act covers the whole subject of the first, and embraces new
provisons, plainly showing that it was intended as a substitute for the first act, it will operate as a repeal of that
act." It was not meant by this statement to say, as a
casual reading of it might suggest, that the mere fact that
the latter act covers the whole subject and embraces new

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

provisions demonstrates an intention completely to substitute the latter act for the first. This is made apparent
by the decision in Henderson's Tobacco, at the same term,
11 Wall. 652, 657, where, in an opinion delivered by Mr.
Justice Strong, it is said, "But it must be observed that
the doctrine [of the Tynen case] asserts no more than
that the former statute is impliedly repealed, so far as the
provisions of the subsequent statute are repugnant to it,
or so far as the latter statute, making new provisions, is
plainly intended as a substitute for it. Where the powers
or directions under several acts are such as may well subsist together, an implication of repeal cannot be allowed."
(Italics are in the original.) These two cases, with others,
are briefly reviewed by this Court in Red Rock v. Henry,
106 U. S. 596, 601, by Mr. Justice Woods, and the court's
conclusion stated as follows:
"The result of the authorities cited is that when an
affirmative statute contains no expression of a purpose
to repeal a prior law, it does not repeal it unless the two
acts are in irreconcilable conflict, or unless the later statute covers the whole ground occupied by the earlier and
is clearly intended as a substitute for it, and the intention
of the legislature to repeal must be clear and manifest."
The implication of which the cases speak must be a necessary implication. Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342,
362-363. It is not sufficient, as was said by Mr. Justice
Story in that case, "to establish that subsequent laws
cover some or even all of the cases provided for by [the
prior act]; for they may be merely affirmative, or cumulative, or auxiliary." The question whether a statute is
repealed by a later one containing no repealing clause, on
the ground of repugnancy or substitution, is a question
of legislative intent to be ascertained by the application
of the accepted rules for ascertaining that intention.
United States v. Claflin, 97 U. S. 546, 551; Eastern Extension Tel. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 326, 332.

POSADAS v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
497

505

Opinion of the Court.

And, even in the face of a repealing clause, circumstances
may justify the conclusion that a later act repeating provisions of an earlier one is a continuation, rather than an
abrogation and reenactment, of the earlier act. Bear
Lake IrrigationCo. v. Garland, 164 U. S. 1, 11-13.
Petitioner relies on Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590,
617; but it is sufficient to say that the rule which we
have quoted from Red Rock v. Henry, supra, was formulated with that case in mind, since it is specifically mentioned.
In some of the states, the principle has been embodied
in statutes to the general effect that provisions of a prior
statute, so far as they are reproduced in a later one, are
to be construed as a continuation of such provisions and
not ds a new enactment. See Barrows v. People's Gaslight & Coke Co., 75 Fed. 794, 795. But such statutes are
only declaratory of the rule of the common law. Dallmann
v. Dallmann, 159 Wis. 480, 485-486; 149 N. W. 137; Julien
v. Model B., L. & I. Assn., 116 Wis. 79, 89-90; 92 N. W.
561. See, also, Ely and others v. Holton, 15 N. Y. 595,
598, 599; Moore v. Mausert, 49 N. Y. 332, 335; Longlois
v. Longlois, 48 Ind. 60, 63-64; People v. N. Y., C. & St.
L. R. Co., 316 Ill. 452, 457-458; 147 N. E. 494.
Applying the rule established by the foregoing and
other authorities, we see nothing in the terms of the Federal Reserve amending act, in the provisions of the new
Organic Act, or in the history of Philippine legislation,
which justifies the conclusion that by the amendment of
1916 Congress intended to repeal the old § 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. The amendment is made in a wellapproved form-a form which, indeed, many of the states
compel by constitutional provision-namely, by repeating the language of the original section with the additions to which we have heretofore called attention. Unless the contrary plainly appear, the employment of such
form of amendment is simply to serve the causes of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus. "

296 U.S.

venience and certainty. That is to say, by carrying the
full text forward, the task of searching out and bringing
together the various fragments which go to make up the
* completed whole, after specific eliminations or additions
by amendment, is rendered unnecessary; and possible
doubt as to the precise terms of the law as amended is
avoided. Or, as Chief Judge Denio said in Ely and others
v. Holton, supra"In short, we attribute no effect to the plan of dovetailing the amendment into the original section, except
the one above suggested, of preserving a harmonious text,
so that when future editions shall be published the scattered members shall easily adjust themselves to each
other."
It follows that such parts of the original § 25 as were
copied into the amended section were not thereby repealed and immediately reiinacted, but continued, uninterruptedly, to be the law after the amendment precisely
as they were before. Section 5 of the Organic Act of 1916,
supra, which in terms relates only to laws thereafter enacted, must be put aside as not applicable.
Judgment affirmed.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF PUERTO RICO
v. IIAVEMEYER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 115.

FOR THE

Argued December 12, 13, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

1. By grant of the Executive Council of Puerto Rico a limited partnership was entitled (among other privileges) to dam the outlet
of a lake and use the impounded water in the irrigation of its
own land, subject to the condition, imposed to protect private
lands, public roads and the public health from the injurious effects
of overflows, that the lake should not be raised above a level
prescribed. Held a grant of quasi-public nature, within the mean-

