OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

24; and with all the other decisions of this Court distinguishing administrative from judicial proceedings to which
the plaintiffs have called our attention; with the cases
which hold that this Court lacks jurisdiction where the
review sought is legislative or administrative in character; with those which hold that the lower court lacked
jurisdiction because the plaintiff had not exhausted his
administrative remedies; and with those which hold that
the assessment of taxes is not an order within the meaning
of § 266 of the Judicial Code.2"
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of these cases.
COLGATE v. HARVEY, STATE TAX
COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF VERMONT.

No. 8.

Argued October 14, 15, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.

1. A state tax upon income is not to be deemed an interference
with interstate commerce merely because the income is derived
from a source in another State. P. 419.
2. A state tax is not invalid as an interference with interstate
commerce when its effect upon such commerce is merely collateral
and incidental. Id.
3. A Vermont law laying a general income tax of 47(J upon the
dividends received by residents from corporations, exempts dividends from corporation business done in the State, measuring
the exemption by the ratio of the net income of the corporation
earned within the State to its entire net income. Corporations,
on the other hand, are subjected to an annual franchise or privilege
tax of 2)(/ of the net income attributable to their local business,
in addition to taxes upon their local tangible property. Held:
'"See, e. g., Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210; Keller v.
Potomac Electric Co., 261 U. S. 428; Ex parte Williams, 277 U. S..
267, 271-2.

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

405

Syllabus.

(1) That the exemption does not produce unconstitutional discrimination against recipients of 'dividends earned outside of the
State. P. 419.
(2) The evident intent and general operation of the legislation
are to adjust with a reasonable degree of equality the tax burdens
it imposes on shareholders, the exemption of locally earned dividends being the practical equivalent of the burden which the shareholders receiving them must bear indirectly because of the local
taxes laid on their corporations. P. 420.
4. Conceding the power of a State to impose double or multiple
taxation, the avoidance of that result cannot be condemned as an
arbitrary basis for apportioning tax burdens. P. 420.
5. In testing whether the taxes imposed by a State on its residents discriminate unduly, in violation of the equality clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, the tax burdens imposed upon them by
other States are irrelevant. P. 420.
6. Absolute equality in taxation is not required by the Fourteenth
Amendment; the boundary between permissible and forbidden inequalities depends upon the material circumstances in each case.
P. 422.
7. A Vermont law taxing income from interest-bearing securities
exempts interest received on account of money loaned within the
State at a rate of interest not exceeding 5% per annum, evidenced
by promissory notes, mortgages on real estate, or bonds for deeds.
Residents whose income is from like loans made outside of the
State are not allowed the exemption. Held:
(1) That on the face of the statute the discrimination is purely
arbitrary, being based entirely upon a fortuitous circumstancethe place where the loan is made-which has no substantial or
fair relation to the object of the Act, namely, the raising of
revenue. Pp. 422, 424.
(2) Assuming that the classification would be valid under the
equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment if the exemption
were made to depend not only upon the making of the loan
within the State but also upon the investment of the money
loaned in property having its situs within the State, the Court
is not at liberty to read such additional condition into the
statute. P. 424.
(3) The proposition that money loaned within the State will
generally be invested there, is a pure speculation, without warrant
in the record or in the judicial knowledge of the Court. P. 425.

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

8. A statutory discrimination, which on its face is arbitrary, cannot
be upheld by simply surmising that it subserves some unnamed
public interest. P. 425.
9. Classification for the purposes of taxation, to comply with the
equal protection clause, must be founded upon pertinent and real
differences, as distinguished from the irrelevant and artificial. The
test is whether the taxing statute arbitrarily and without genuine
reason imposes a burden upon one group of taxpayers from which
it exempts another, both of them occupying substantially the same
relation toward the subject-matter of the legislation. P. 423.
10. Even if beneficial to the State, a discrimination whereby its citizens who lend money outside of the State are taxed on the income, while those who make like loans in the State are not taxed,
violates the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 426, 433.
11. As citizens of the United States our people are members of a
single great community consisting of all the States united, and not
of distinct communities consisting of the States severally. No
citizen of the United States is an alien of any State of the Union;
and the very status of national citizenship connotes equality of
.rights and privileges, so far as they flow from such citizenship,
everywhere within the limits of the United States. P. 426.
12. A citizen of the United States is ipso facto and at the same time
a citizen of the State in which he resides. While the Fourteenth
Amendment does not create a national citizenship, it has the effect
of making that citizenship "paramount and dominant" instead of
"derivative and dependent" upon state citizenship. P. 427.
13. Whatever latitude of state power might exist under Art. IV, § 2
of the Constitution, providing that "The citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States," a State cannot, in view of the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, abridge the privileges of a citizen of the United States, albeit he is at the same
time a resident of the State which undertakes to do so. P. 428.
14. The same Act of a state legislature may contravene more than
one provision of the Constitution, e. g., it may infringe the right
of a citizen under the commerce clause and also his privileges and
immunities as a citizen of the United States. Cf. Crandall v.
Nevada, 6 Wall. 35. P. 430.
15. The right of a citizen of the United States to engage in business,
to transact any lawful business, or to make a lawfui loan of money

COLGATE v. HARVEY,
404

407

Statement of the Case.

in any State other than that in which the citizen resides is a privilege attributable to his national citizenship. A state law prohibiting the exercise of any of these rights in another State would,
therefore, be invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment; a discriminating tax upon such activities is necessarily void even if the taxing State will thereby help its domestic business. P. 430.
16. As the Fourth Article of the Constitution requires each State to
accord equality of treatment to the citizens of other States in respect of the privileges and immunities of state citizenship, so the
privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
safeguards citizens of the United States against any legislation of
their own States having the effect of denying equality of tieatment
in respect of the exercise of their privileges of national citizenship
in other States. P. 431.
17. The right of a citizen of the United States resident in one State
to contract in another may be a liberty safeguarded by the due
prqcess clause and at the same time, none the less, a, privilege protected by the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. In such case he may invoke either or both. P. 433.
18. A state law which allows a personal exemption from the taxable
income derived from interest-bearing securities but withholds it
if the taxpayer receive also income of another kind, and, in that
event, gives to him a larger personal exemption in the computation of his tax upon the latter kind of income, is consistent with
equal protection of the laws, notwithstanding the fact that, in a
particular tax year, the taxpayer because of allowable deductions
from gross income, paid no tax upon the latter kind of income
and had no occasion to resort to the larger exemption applicable
to it. P. 434.
19. The question of equal protection must be decided in respect of
the general classification rather than by the chance incidence of
the tax in particular instances or with respect to particular taxpayers. P. 436.
107 Vt. 28; 175 Atl. 352, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment which affirmed a judgment
rendered by a county court in favor of Harvey, Tax Commissioner, in a proceeding under the Income and Franchise Tax Law of Vermont for the revision of an income
tax assessment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellant.

296 U.S.

Mr. Edward J. Dimock, with whom Mr. George L. Hunt
was on the brief, for appellant.
The Act in effect taxes interest and dividends earned
outside of Vermont and exempts interest and dividends
earned within Vermont, and is therefore unconstitutional
under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Act deprives citizens of the United States of the
constitutional right to invest in non-Vermont loans and
stocks on at least as favorable terms as they are permitted
to invest in Vermont loans and stocks.
Capricious classifications for purposes of taxation deny
the equal protection of the laws. Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32. Even a conclusion that
a classification is not capricious is not necessarily enough
to save it under the equal protection clause. Hanover
Insurance Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S. 492.
Though a classification be not so oppressive as to be
unconstitutional under the equal protection clause, it
may yet be unconstitutional if it discriminates against a
privilege of a citizen of the United States.
The concept of privileges of citizens of the United
States is one which has developed since the foundation
of the Republic. It is even said that prior to the adoption
of the Fourteenth Amendment there were no citizens of
the United States. Sharon v. Hill, 26 Fed. 337, 343. Before the Civil War had more closely welded the Union
into a single nation, statesmen were much more deeply
concerned with preventing States from abridging the due
privileges of citizens of other States than with preventing
them from abridging the due privileges of citizens of their
own who later came to constitute members of the class of
citizens of the United States.
Under Art. IV, § 2 of the Constitution, citizens of other
States were able to come into Vermont and invest their
funds upon equal terms with the citizens of Vermont with-

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Argument for Appllant.

Birmingout interference by its legislature. Chalker -i.
ham & N. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522.
Upon the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment,
citizens of Vermont became ipso facto citizens of the
United States as well, and they thereby became entitled
to go into other States and invest their funds without
being subjected by the legislature of Vermont to any
greater burdens than it placed upon their investment of
money within its borders.
There can be no doubt that the right to employ funds
in any State of the Union on equal terms with citizens of
that State and unhampered by restrictions imposed by the
State of which the investor is a citizen is -one of the essential rights of citizenship in the United States. If we
have no such right, the citizenship in the United States
created by 'the Fourteenth Amendment was a citizenship
subject to the sovereignty of the States over their citizens.
That cannot be. If there is a paramount sovereign of the
citizen, it is the United States.
State lines are used by the Act as the basis of a classification hostile to investment in enterprises in sister
States. What the State has done in effect is to announce
that income over which Vermont has territorial juiisdiction shall be tax free and income over which Vermont has
no territorial jurisdiction, but only a jurisdiction through
the residence of the owner, shall be taxed. This is not
the usual case of a classification invalid because capricious
and without logical basis. Its basis is extremely logical
but wholly vicious and repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment and to the whole theory of our Union of
States. Of all the classifications that might have been
chosen for the purpose of taxation, the most clearly unconstitutional is that which exempts intrastate income
and taxes extra-state income.
The Act, by discriminating against investment by Vermont residents in non-Vermont stocks and loans, in ef-

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellee.

296 U.S.

fect creates an embargo upon the export of capital. It
is therefore unconstitutional under the commerce clause
of the Constitution.
The taxes involved cannot stand if the discriminatory
exemptions are stricken from the statute as unconstitutional.
The Act, by arbitrarily refusing to the appellant the
$800 exemption given to other persons whose situation
differed from his only in that they had no income from
business, denies appellant the equal protection of the
laws. It is therefore unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Messrs. Guy M. Page and Seymour P. Edgerton, with
whom Mr. Lawrence C. Jones, Attorney General of Vermont, was on the brief, for appellee.
The challenged exemptions are directed to the avoidance of double or multiple taxation by Vermont of the
same economic interest, viz: (a) shares of stock in corporations to the extent to which the issuing corporation
is taxed in Vermont, and (b) certain credits, the consideration for which became a part of the general wealth of
the State and thereby subject to its tax laws.
The general power of States to classify for purposes
of taxation is not open to question. It applies equally
to classification of incomes for taxation. In such taxation, "possible differences in tax burdens not shown to
be substantial or which are based on discriminations
not shown to be arbitrary or capricious do not
fall within constitutional prohibitions." Lawrence v.
State Tax Comm'n, 286 U. S. 284. "It is not necessary
• . . that the basis of the classification must be deducible from the nature of the things classified. . . . It
is enough, for instance, if the classification is reasonably
founded in the 'purposes and policy of taxation.'" Watson v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122, 125; Stebbins v.
Riley, 268 U. S. 137, 143.

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Argument for Appellee.

A basis of classification is reasonable and valid which
operates to avoid double taxation by a single State of
the same economic interest. Lawrence v. State Tax
Comm'n, supra; Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U. S.
19, 23; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732; Darnell v.
Indiana, 266 U. S. 390; Watson v. State Comptroller,
supra; Clement National Bank v. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120;
Concordia Fire Ins. Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S. 535.
The rule has a wide variety of application. Concordia
Fire Ins. Co. v. Illinois, supra; Pacific Express Co. v.
Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; Northwestern Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S.132; Travelers' Insurance Co.
v. Connecticut, 185 U. S.364; Clement National Bank v.
Vermont, supra; General American Tank Car Corp. v.
Day, 270 U. S. 367; Watson v. State Comptroller, supra.
The right to exempt persons or property from one tax
because the same economic interest has been otherwise
taxed has been repeatedly applied in cases with respect
to the taxation of corporations or the stockholders.
Kidd v. Alabama, supra; Darnell v. Indiana, supra; Klein
v. Board of Supervisors, supra.
It is the necessary conclusion from these cases that a
State may so classify the objects of taxation within its
jurisdiction as to avoid taxing the same value more than
once and in so doing may disregard the taxation imposed
by other States. Distinguishing: Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S.32; Hanover Fire Ins. Co.
v. Harding,272 U. S.494.
In the case at bar there is no classification of taxpayers under the income tax law. The sole classification is
of income. That classification is admittedly "extremely
logical," and operates equally with respect to all taxpayers who are recipients of income in any of the specified
classes. The Fourteenth Amendment guarantees equal
protection to taxpayers similarly situated, but it "does
not compel the adoption of an iron rule of equal taxation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellee.

296 U.S.

nor prevent variety or differences in taxation, or discre-

tion in the selection of subjects, or the classification for
taxation of properties. . .

."

State Board of Tax Comm'rg

v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527, 537.
The privileges and immunities protected under the
Fourteenth Amendment are those that arise from the Constitution and laws of the United States, rather than those
which spring from other sources. Slaughter-HouseCases,
16 Wall. 36; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377; PrudentialInsurance Co.
v. Cheek, 259 U. S.530. Nothing in the Constitution or
laws of the United States requires the equal taxation of
all property, although the Constitution does require the
equal protection of all citizens similarly situated. Chalker
v. Birmingham & N. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522, distinguished.
Nothing in the Federal Constitution requires that a
State shall twice tax the property which a citizen has left
at home, subject to the taxing laws, because property
which he has invested in other States is to be once taxed
at home. Darnell v. Indiana, 226 U. S.390, and Royster
Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S.412, distinguished.
An examination of the history and effect of the exemption of the income from money loaned within the
State at not over 5% per annum discloses that the encouragement intended was the removal of the barrier of
double taxation of the same intrinsic wealth, a barrier
adequate to effectively discourage investment of Vermont funds within the State.
The obvious effect 'of the change in taxation thus enacted was to tax the property and exempt the credit, provided the creditor yielded 1% of the legal rate of interest;
and if the creditor exacted the legal rate of interest, to
tax the creditor and permit the debtor to deduct one-half
of the taxable debt (with limitations) which amounted
to substantially 1%. In other words, the legislature recog-

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Argument for Appellee.

nized that the sale on credit of property within the State
to become a part of the property of the debtor in fact
created no new wealth and so a single tax was exacted,
within limitations. The incidence of the tax was substantially equally divided between the debtor and the creditor.
The system thu , achieved is analogous to systems for the
taxation of credits in force in many jurisdictions and
uniformly sustained by the courts.
The statute is within the "general usage" of the States,
which, in the frequently quoted statement in Bell's Gap
R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237, was said not
to be forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment.
IIt cannot be said that a legislative purpose to encourage the investment of Vermont money for the assistance
of the agricultural and industrial interests of the State is
an unlawful and prohibited purpose. Without the exemption, a debt-burdened class of residents would be subjected to tax laws oppressive in proportion to the taxpayers' indebtedness. Cf. Aero Mayflolver Transit Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 295 U. S. 285; Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217
U. S. 114; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; Bell's Gap R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232; Citizens Telephone Co. v.
Fuller, 229 U. S. 322.
The legislative purpose to encourage, approved in the
foregoing cases, had no necessary relation to other States.
See New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658; National Union
Fire Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71, 75; Board of Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S. 553.
The controlling test is to be found in the operation
and effect of the law as applied and enforced by the
State. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.
350, 362, 363; Texas v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 479; Gregg
Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472, 482; Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95, 102; Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall,
274 U. S. 284, 288.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellee.

296 U.S.

The record is devoid of any evidence which indicates
that any of the capital of appellant, or any capital of
any other resident of Vermont, has been driven from
other States into Vermont, or unreasonably retained
within Vermont, by reason of the provisions of the challenged tax law; nor is there any evidence from which
a tendency in that direction can be deduced.
An exemption of shares of stock, complete or partial,
under the Vermont income tax law arises out of the imposition of a franchise tax upon the corporation. The
imposition of a franchise tax is conditioned and proportioned upon business within the State. The locus of a
corporate business is by fair inference the locus of its
principal property. Bethlehem Motors Corp. v. Flynt,
256 U. S. 421; Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132, 139; Kidd v. Alabama, 188
U. S. 730, 732.
All the tangible property of corporations within the
State is taxed at the local rate. Pub. Laws, Vt., §§ 571,
588. Both the report of the State Tax Commissioner
to the Legislature and the United States census show
that this rate is about 3%. It follows that in general
the exemption of stock in corporations is conditioned upon
the payment by the corporation of a property tax substantially proportioned to the extent of the exemption.
Entirely apart from any franchise tax, the payment of
the property tax would justify the exemption of the stock
from a similar property tax. Kidd v. Alabama, supra;
Darnell v. Indiana, supra; Klein v. Board of Supervisors,
supra; Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, supra.
But by the Vermont tax laws the income tax is substituted for the property tax upon shares of stock. The
income tax is therefore in effect a tax upon the shares.
See Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 157 U S. 429,
581; Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Railroad Co. v.

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Argument for Appellee.

Jackson, 7 Wall. 262; Opinion of the Justices, 220 Mass.
613; Wright v. GeorgiaR. Co., 216 U. S. 420.
It follows that wholly irrespective of the franchise tax,
the income from shares of corporations doing business in
Vermont may fairly be exempted from taxation, in proportion to business within the State, as the statute in
effect provides.
But the statute imposes an additional condition that
the corporation shall pay in addition to its property tax
a franchise tax at the rate of 2% upon its entire net income attributable to business within the State. It is obvious that in the ordinary case the net income of the
corporation will exceed the distribution of dividends; that,
therefore, the 2% tax will be applied to a wider base than
the 4% tax. The excess 6f burden upon a stockholder
who pays a 4% dividend tax can never exceed 50% of
his tax paid, and will generally be less. Entirely apart
from the property tax, the franchise tax presents a disproportion to the taxation of shares not materially different from that sustained by this Court in Klein v. Board
of Supervisors, 28? U. S. 19.
As to the personal exemption, a taxpayer with a subsistence exemption from one class of income is not subjected to unjust discrimination because he is not permitted to take an exemption from another class, any
more than a taxpayer would be entitled to an exemption
of two homesteads because he occupied alternately two
places of residence. If the taxpayer had other than Class
B income, his need was less than that of the taxpayer
who had no income in addition to Class B income, and
generally, he would have availed himself of an exemption
from his Class A income. In any aspect there is a substantial difference between income from intangibles and
income from business and rents. All taxpayers are classified by the same criteria, having a real relation to the purpose and object of the exemption.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Vermont Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1931,
Public Laws of Vermont, 1933, § 872 et seq. (the pertinent
provisions of which are copied in the margin'), imposes
' Chapter 39.

Sec. 873. Aate; Exemptions; Amouwt.-A tax is hereby imposed
upon every resident of the state, which tsx shall be levied, collected
and paid annually, with respect to:
"I. His net income as herein defined, after deducting the exemptions provided in this chapter, at the IMte of two per cent; and
"II. To the income received by him on account of the ownership
or use of or interest in any stock, bond, note, agreement or other
interest bearing security at the rate of four per cent; but the words
'income received by him on account of the ownership or use of or
interest in any stock, bond, note, agreement or other interest bearing
security' shall not include the following items which shall be exempt
from taxation under this chapter:
14(a)i Interest received on account of money loaned within this state,
at a rate of interest not exceeding five per cent per annum evidenced
by a promissory note, mortgage on real estate or a bond for a deed,
including credits representing the purchase price, or any part thereof,
of real estate within this state, sold or transferred, evidenced by a
promissory note, mortgage or bond for a deed bearing a rate of
interest not exceeding five per cent per annum;
"(e) Dividends on stocks of those corporations which are subject
to taxation under chapter 40, but if a corporate franchise tax is not
measured by the entire net income of such corporation, then a portion of the dividends paid by such corporation shall be taxable under
this chapter, and such taxable portion shall be that proportion of
the dividend as the income earned by the corporation from business
done without the state.of Vermont bears to the entire income of the
corporation;
"(f) In case the income taxed in this section is derived wholly
from ownership of or interest in any stock, bond, note or other interest bearing security, there shall be deducted from such income the
following exemptions:

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

404

individual income taxes as follows: First, with respect to
net income derived from salaries, wages, etc., denominated

by the court belQw class A income, at the rate of 2%;
second, with respect to income received on account of the
ownership or use of or interest in any interest bearing
security, denominated class B income, at the rate of 4%,
excluding, however, from such income (a) interest re" 1. In case of a single individual a personal exemption of four
hundred dollars;
"2. In the case of the head of a family, or a married individual
living with husband or wife, a personal exemption of eight hundred
dollars; but if either a husband or wife shall receive any income other
than that derived from the ownership of or interest in any stock,
bond, note or other interest bearing security, then such personal
exemption shall not be allowed. A husband and wife, living togethef,
shall receive but one personal exemption of eight hundred dollais
against their aggregate net income; and in case they make separate
returns, the personal exemption of eight hundred dollars may be taken
by either or divided between them....
"Chapter 40.
"Sec. 887. Rate.-For the privilege of exercising its franchise in
this state in a corporate or organized capacity, every domestic corporation, and for the privilege of doing business in this state every
foreign corporation, liable to tax under this chapter shall annually
pay to this state a franchise tax to be measured by its net income
to be computed in the manner hereinafter provided at the rate of
two per cent upon the basis of its net income as herein computed,
for the next preceding fiscal or calendar year.
"Sec. 888. Basis on business within the state.--If the entire business of the corporation be transacted within the state, the tax imposed shall be based upon the entire net income of such corporation
for such fiscal or calendar year. If the entire business of the corporation be not transacted within the state and its gross income
derived from business done both within and without the state, the
determination of its net income shall be based upon the business done
within the state and for the purpose of computing such net income
the commissioner shall adopt such recommendations and regulations
for the allocation of net income as will fairly and justly reflect the
net income of that portion of the business done within the state."
33682 -36-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

ceived on account of money loaned within the state at a
rate of interest not exceeding 5% per annum, evidenced
by a promissory note, mortgage, or bond for a deed bear-'
ing a like rate of interest; (b) dividends on stocks of
corporations subject to taxation under §§ 887, 888 of
the statute. If the income taxed is derived wholly from
interest-bearing .securities, there is allowed in the case of
a single individual, a personal exemption of $400, and, in
the case of a head of a family or of a married individual
living with husband or wife, a personal exemption of
$800. If, however, either husband or wife shall receive
any income other than that derived from such securities,
then the personal exemption is not allowed. A distinct
and larger personal exemption is allowed in the case of net
income derived from salaries, wages, etc. (§ 880)-namely,
$1,000 in the case of a single individual, and $2,000 in the
case of a head of a family or a married individual living
with husband or wife.
Appellant is a resident of Vermont, married and living
with his wife. During the taxable year in question, he
received both class A and class B income; but his class
A income, although large, was absorbed by allowable deductions, so that there was no net income from that
source, and consequently nothing subject to taxation.
His class B income amounted to a larger sum, part of
which consisted of interest on notes, mortgages, etc., representing money loaned outside the State of Vermont at
not exceeding 5% per annum, and another part from taxable dividends received from corporations other than
Vermont corporations. Upon these two sums a tax was
assessed against him at the rate of 4%. Under the statute h6 was allowed no personal exemption whatever.
The validity of the statute under the federal Constitution was properly challenged. The grounds of attack, so
far as necessary to be stated, are as follows: (1) The act
imposes a tax upon dividends earned outside the State of

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

Vermont, while exempting from the tax dividends earned
within the state, thereby denying petitioner thb equal protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment; (2) the act, in violation of the same clause,
discriminates in favor of money loaned within the state
as against money loaned outside the -state; (3) the act
arbitrarily denies appellant the $800 exemption while giving it to other persons whose situation differed from his
only in that they had no income from business, and thereby denies appellant the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendmernt; and in each of
these three particulars the act abridge the privileges and
immunities of appellant as a citizen of the United States
in contravention of the same amendment.
The court below denied the contentions of appellant
and sustained the validity of the act in every particular.
107 Vt. 28; 175 Atl. 352.
First. Does the imposition of a tax upon dividends
earned outside the state, from which tax dividends earned
within the state are exempt, constitute, under the Fourteenth Amendment, an allowable classification? The
basis of the classification rests in the consideration that by
§§ 887 and 888 a tax of 2%, measu'red by net income, is
imposed upon every corporation for the privilege of exer2

The further point is made that the discrimination in respect of

dividends and interest upon loans is a regulation of interstate commerce and therefore void under the commerce clause of the federal
Constitution. But we mention this latter claim only to reject it as
without merit, since clearly a tax upon income is not an interference
with interstate commerce simply because the income is derived from
a source within another state; and, moreover, if there be any tendency to interfere with such commerce it is purely collateral and incidental. Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, 82; Williams v. Fears, 179
U. S. 270, 276; Diamond Glue Co. v. United States Glue Co., 187
U. S. 611, 616; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604, 616; Engel
v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128, 138; Moore v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange,
270 U. S. 593, 604.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

cising its franchise in the state and of doing business
therein. If the entire business of the corporation be
transacted within the state, the amount of the tax is fixed
with regard to the entire net income. If the entire business be not so transacted, the net income is calculated with
respect to that part of the business done within the state,
to be allocated so as fairly and justly to reflect such net
income. Dividends upon shares of corporations which
are subjected to this tax are exempted from the income
tax. In addition to the 2% franchise tax, all tangible
corporate property lying within the state is subjected to
a property tax. The evident aim of the classification,
therefore, is to produce equality and not inequality;
and, obviously, that aim will become effective in fact,
to a greater or less extent, in the administration of the
legislation.
The theory upon which the tax is laid upon dividends
realized from out-of-state business while leaving dividends
realized from domestic business untaxed, is that the 2%
franchise tax, especially with the property tax added, has
the effect of indirectly imposing a tax burden upon the
latter measurably equivalent to that imposed directly
upon the former. Thus, the tendency of the plan is to
avoid taxing twice what is, in effect, the same thing. And
concedihig the power of the state to impose double or even
multiple'taxation, legislation which is calculated to avoid
that undesirable result certainly cannot be condemned as
arbitrary. Thus far, the question is settled in favor of
the validity of the tax by prior decisions of this court.
Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730; Darnell v. Indiana, 226
U. S. 390, 398; Traveller's Insurance Co. v. Connecticut,
185 U. S. 364; Watson v. State Comptroller,254 U. S. 122,
124-125; Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286 U. S. 276,
284. True, it well may be assumed that similar franchise
and property taxes are imposed upon the outside corporations by other states; but the assumption is immaterial

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

to the issue here involved. It is enough that such taxes
are not imposed by the State of Vermont. It wa so
decided in Kidd v. Alabama, supra, where Mr. Jdftice
Holmes, speaking for the court, said (p. 732):
"The State of Alabama is not bound to make its laws
harmonize in principle with those of other States. If
property is untaxed by its laws, then for the purpose of
its laws the property is not taxed at all." And see Bacon
v. Board of Tax Comm'rs, 126 Mich. 22, 25-26; 85 N. W.
307.
Appellant urges that the franchise tax measured by the
corporation's income is at the rate of 2%, while the tax on
dividends is at the rate of 4%; and concludtes that this
results in putting a burden on dividends directly taxed
twice as great as that imposed indirectly by the franchise
tax. But it is obvious that, since the 4% tax is imposed
only upon such part of the corporate net Income as passes
to the shareholders in the form of dividends, and the 2%
tax is measured by the entire net income of the corporation, this conclusion is erroneous. Corporations do not,
at least as a general rule, pay out their entire net income
in dividends. Something is reserved, for future contingencies; and it may well result that a tax of 2% measured
by the entire net income of the corporation will roughly
approximate the amount imposed by a 4% tax on that part
of the net income paid out as dividends. There is nothing
in the equality clause of the Constitution which requires
that the two sums shall be mathematically equivalent.
ConcordiaFire Ins. Co. v. Illinois, 202 U. S. 535, 547. In
Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U. S. 19, this court
sustained an act exempting corporate shares from taxation where 75% of the total property of the corporation
was taxable in the state and the taxes thereon were paid.
It was said that this was plainly a reasonable effort to do
justice to all in view of the way other assessments were
made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

It is impossible to say from the record before us that
there is a greater disproportion here than was presented
in the Klein case, or to conclude that the disproportion is
so great as to stamp the classification as wholly arbitrary
or capricious. Moreover, as a general thing, a corporation
subject to the 2% franchise tax will pay also a tax upon
property located within the state, with the effect of still
further narrowing, if not altogether extinguishing, the
difference.
This court has frequently said that absolute equality in
taxation cannot be obtained and is not required under
the Fourteenth Amendment. This, of course, is not to
say that, because some degree of inequality from the
nature of things must be permitted, gross inequality must
also be allowed. The boundary between what is permissible and what is forbidden by the constitutional requirement has never been precisely fixed and is incapable of
exact delimitation. In the great variety of cases which
have arisen, decisions may seem to be difficult of reconcilement; but investigation will generally cause apparent
conflicts to disappear when due weight is given to material circumstances which distinguish the cases. If the
evident intent and general operation of the tax legislation are to adjust the burden with a fair and reasonable
degree of equality, the constitutional requirement is satisfied. We think the provision now under consideration
meets this test. Cf. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.
575, 612; Tappan v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall.
490, 504; Merchants' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S.
461, 464.
Second. It is settled beyond the admissibility of further
inquiry that the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment does not preclude the states from resorting
to classification for the purposes of legislation. Royster
Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412, 415. And "the
power of the state to classify for. purposes of taxation is

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

of wide range and flexibility . . ." Louisville Gas Co; .
Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 37. But the classification " must be
reasonable, not arbitrary, and must rest upon some ground
of difference having a fair and substantial relation to the
object of the legislation, so that all persons similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike." Royster Guano Co. v.
Virginia, supra; Air-Way Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S. 71, 85;
Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230, 240. The classification, in order to avoid the constitutional prohibition,
must be founded upon pertinent and real differences, as
distinguished from irrelevant and artificial ones. The
test to be applied in such cases as the present one is--does
the statute arbitrarily and without genuine reason impose
a burden upon one group of taxpayers from which it exempts another group, both of them occupying substantially the same relation toward the subject matter of the
legislation? "Mere difference is not enough ..."
Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, supra; Frost v. Corporation Commission, 278 U. S. 515, 522.
The question depends here upon whether the income
taxed and the income exempted from taxation reasonably
can be assigned to different classes. As the Supreme Court
of Vermont itself has pointed out, in all such cases it must
appear not only that a classification has been made, but
that it is one based on some reasonable ground. State v.
Hoyt, 71 Vt. 59, 64-66; 42 Atl. 973. The decision in that
case held invalid a state statute the effect of which was to
impose a tax upon sales of goods manufactured in the
state, while leaving sales of goods manufactured in other
states free from taxation. It was held that the classification could not be based on any difference in the goods, because there was none; nor on the fact that they were made
in different states, for that bore no just and proper relation to the classification, but was purely arbitrary; nor on
the difference of residence of the manufacturers, for the
same reason. And clearly the view of the court was that

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

a like discrimination against the products of another state
would have been open to the same objections.
Let us apply these principles to the statute creating the
exemption now in question. Upon the face of the statute
the classification is based. upon a difference having no substantial or fair relation to the object of the act-which,
so far as this question is concerned, simply is to secure
revenue. The statute itself suggests no other public purpose which will be served by the exemption. The language creating the exemption is "(a) Interest received on
account of money loaned within this state, at a rate of
interest not exceeding five per cent per annum..."
The naked and complete test afforded by the statute is
that the money shall be loaned within the state. What
is to be done with the money, whether it is to be invested
in the state or elsewhere-indeed, whether it is to be
devoted to any useful purpose-are matters having nothing to do with the imposition of the tax or the exemption
therefrom. If the statute had provided that interest on
account of money so loaned when invested in property
having a situs within the state shall be free from the tax,.
a different question as to classification might be presented.
In that event the actual wealth of the state would be
increased, and in addition, and as a consequence, opportunity to obtain additional revenue through taxation
would result. But this exempting provision, we repeat,
contains neither this qualification nor any other. Its
terms are.positi"ve and all-inclusive and will be fully satisfied whenever it appears that money has been loaned
within the state. The Supreme Court of Vermont has
not read into the statute a qualification that loans shall
be deemed to be made within the state only if their proceeds be invested in the state. Obviously this court cannot so read the provision, for that would be to amend
and not to construe it. We are unable to find in the provision. any public purpose which can be subserved by

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

making the taxation of income from loans dependent
merely upon the adventitious circumstance as to the place
of making the loan.
It is suggested, however, that, aside from, anything
in the statute, money loaned within the state generally
will be invested therein. But there is nothing in the
record to indicate that this will result; and for aught
this court can know judicially, there is no warrant for
saying either that it will or will not result. All we can
say is that money so loaned may be invested in Vermont,
or may be invested in some other state-for example, in
property having a situs in New York--or may not be
invested at all. If there be circumstances which will
justify the exemption of any income derived from money
loaned within the state while taxing the income from
that loaned outside, it is for the state legislature to point
them out and limit the exemption accordingly. To iraport any such circumstances into the present situation is
to indulge in pure speculation. Compare Travis v. Yale
& Toume Mfg. Co., 252 U. S. 60, 81.
To assume that some unnamed public interest exists,
which will sustain the discrimination, does not help the
matter here; because the assumption can rest only upon
surmise, with nothing concrete or explicit appearing to
support it or to indicate a legislative intent to relate the
exemption to any public purpose or to anything else beyond the mere fact that the favored loans are effected
within the state. In principle, the classification is quite
as arbitrary as that dealt with by this court in Louisville
Gas Co. v. Coleman, supra, pp. 38-39. If the exemption
had been made to depend upon the time when the loan
was made, instead of upon the locality where it was
made-as, for example, a tax upon all income from loans
except those made on Mondays--the arbitrary and capricious nature of the classification would scarcely be
doubted, although a minute inspection of the field of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

possibilities might persuade an anxious mind, bent on sustaining the tax at all events, to the view that in some
far-fetched way a loan made on Monday would further
some public purpose, other than that of revenue, which a
loan made on another day of the week would not.
It is said that an exemption which may have for its
aim the advancement of local interests can hardly be condemned under a Constitution which for a century has
known a protective tariff. Considering the suggestion
categorically, a pertinent answer to it is that while the
general government may, for the benefit of national interests, exact impost duties which discriminate against
foreign interests, one state, even for the advancement of
its own interests, is not permitted to exact taxes discriminating against goods brought from a sister state. See, for
example, Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; cf. Burnet v.
Brooks, 288 U. S. 378, 401, et seq.
But, assuming that the State of Vermont is benefited
by the exemption, the complete answer is that appellant
is a citizen of the United States; and, quite apart from
the equal protection of the laws clause, the suggestion is
effectively met and overcome, and the fallacy of other
attempts to sustain the validity of the exemption here
under review clearly demonstrated, by reference to the
privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. "For all the great purposes for which the
Federal government was formed," this court has said,
"we are one people, with one common country."
Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, 48-49. As citizens of the
United States we are members of a single great community consisting of all the states united and not of distinct communities consisting of the states severally. No
citizen of the United States is an alien in any state of the
Union; and the very status of national citizenship connotes equality of rights and privileges, so far as they flow
from such citizenship, everywhere within the limits of the

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

United States. This fact is obvious and vital and no
elaboration is required to establish it.
Section 2 of Article IV of the Constitution contains the
provision, "The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several
States." The Fourteenth Amendment, § 1, provides:
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States,
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and of the State wherein they reside. No
State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
Sta tes ;

. .

."

Thus, the dual character of our citizenship is made
plainly apparent. That is to say, a citizen of the United
States is ipso facto and at the same time a citizen of the
state in which he resides. And while the Fourteenth
Amendment does not create a national citizenship, it has
the effect of making that citizenship "paramount and
dominant" instead of " derivative and dependent." upon
state citizenship.3 "In reviewing the subject," Chief Justice White said in the Selective Draft Law Cases, 245

U. S.366, 377, 388-389, " we have hitherto considered it
as it has been argued, from the point of view of the
Constitution as it stood prior to the adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment. But to avoid all misapprehension we briefly direct attention to that [the Fourteenth]
Amendment for the purpose of pointing out, as has been
frequently done in the past, how completely it broadened
the national scope of the Government under the Constitution by causing citizenship of the United States to be
paramount and dominant instead of being subordinate
'In United States v. Hall, Case No. 15,282, 26 Fed. Cas. 79, 81,
Judge Woods said: " By the original constitution citizenship in the
United States was a consequence of citizenship in a state. By this
clause this order of things is reversed. . . . and citizenship in a state
is a result of citizenship in the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

and derivative, and therefore, operating as it does upon
all the powers conferred by the Constitution, leaves no
possible support for the contentions made, if their want
of merit were otherwise not so clearly made manifest."
The result is that whatever latitude may be thought to
exist in respect of state power under the Fourth Article, a
state cannot, under the Fourteenth Amendment, abridge
the privileges of a citizen of the United States, albeit he
is at the same time a resident of the state which undertakes to do so. This is pointed out by Mr. Justice Bradley in the Slaughter House Case, 1 Woods 21, 28:
"The 'privileges and immunities' secured by the original constitution were only such as each state gave to its
own citizens. Each was prohibited from discriminating
in favor of its own citizens and against the citizens of
other states.
"But the fourteenth amendment prohibits any state
from abridging the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States, whether its own citizens or any
others. It not merely requires equality of privileges but
it demands that the privileges and immunities of all citizens shall be absolutely unabridged, unimpaired."
The same distinction is made by this court in Bradwell
v. State, 16 Wall. 130, 138, where, speaking of the privileges and immunities provision of the Fourth Article, it
was said:
"The protection designed by that clause, as has been
repeatedly held, has no application to a citizen of the
State whose laws are complained of. If the plaintiff was
a citizen of the State of Illinois, that provision of the
,Constitution gave her no protection against its courts or
its legislation."
' This does not mean that a state has unlimited power by law to
abridge the privileges of its own citizens. It only means that in such
case we must look elsewhere than to the language of the privileges
and immunities clause of the Fourth Article of the Constitution for
the constitutional infirmity of the statute, if it have any.

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

But the court added that with respect to the Fourteenth
Amendment "there are certain privileges and immunities
which belong to a citizen of the United States as such;
otherwise it would be nonsense for the Fourteenth Amendment to prohibit a State from abridging them, . . . We
agree . . . that there are privileges and immunities be-

longing to citizens of the United States, in that relation
and character, and that it is these and these alone which
a State is forbidden to abridge." The governments of the
United States and of each of the several states are distinct
from one another. The rights of a citizen under one may
be quite different from those which he has under the
other. To each he owes an allegiance; and, in turn, he is
entitled to the protection of each in respect of such rights
as fall within its jurisdiction. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 549.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, therefore, the
simple inquiry is whether the privilege claimed is one
which arises in virtue of national citizenship. If the
privilege be of that character, no state can abridge it.
No attempt has been made by the courts comprehensively
to define or enumerate the privileges and immunities
which the Fourteenth Amendment thus protects.5
Among those privileges, however, undoubtedly is the right
to pass freely from one State to another. Crandall v.
Nevada, supra; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 274.

And that privilege, obviously, is as immune from abridgement by the state from which the citizen departs as it is
from abridgement by the state which he seeks to enter.
This results from the essential character of national citizenship. Cf. In r'e Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448; Duncan
v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382; In re Quarles and Butler,
'For examples, however, see Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371,
380, 381; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 79-80; Twining v.
New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 97; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430;
Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 248, 252; United States v. Wheeler,
254 U. S. 281; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 180.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

158 U. S. 532, 536; United States v. Cruikshank, supra, at
p. 552.
In the Crandall case, while the court at least gravely
doubted whether a capitation tax imposed by the State
of Nevada upon persons leaving the state by railroad or
stagecoach violated the commerce clause (p. 43), it was
distinctly held that the tax did affect the rights of citizens under the federal government so as to invalidate the
act imposing the tax. The doubt as to the first point has
been resolved in later cases against the power of the
state (Helson and Randolph v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245,
251); but the ruling on the second point has never been
doubted and was definitely approved in the SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 79, and the right described in
the Crandallcase placed among the partially enumerated
privileges and immunities "which owe their existence to
the Federal government, its National character, its Constitution, or its laws." The opinions in both cases were
delivered by the same eminent justice; and it is not without significance that while the first opinion was delivered
before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, the
second one was delivered afterwards and with direct reference to the privileges and immunities clause of that
amendment. The fact that we have since decided, and
should now hold, that the Nevada act was in violation of
the commerce clause, in no way detracts from the view
that it also violated the privileges and immunities clause;
but simply demonstrates that the same act of state legislation may contravene more than one provision of the
federal Constitution.
The right of a citizen of the United States to engage in
business, to transact any lawful business, or to make -a
lawful loan of money in any state other than that in
which the citizen resides is a privilege equally attributable
to his national citizenship. A state law prohibiting the
exercise of any of these rights in another state would,

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

therefore, be invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The imposition by one state of a discriminating tax upon
a citizen resident in another state for trading in the territory of the former has been held invalid. Ward v. laryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430. And, of course, conversely, a tax
of that description is likewise void if imposed by one state
upon a resident citizen of the United States for trading
or doing business in the territory of another state. And
such a tax is not justified because the taxing state will
thereby help its domestic business.
The purpose of the pertinent clause in the Fourth Article was to require each state to accord equality of treatment to the citizens of other states in respect of the privileges and immunities of state citizenship. It has always been so interpreted. One purpose and effect of the
privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, read in the light of this interpretation, was
to bridge the gap left by that article so as also to safeguard citizens of the United States against any legislation
of their own states having the effect of denying equality
of treatment in respect of the exercise of their privileges
of national citizenship in other states. A provision which
thus extended and completed the shield of national protection between the citizen and hostile and discriminating
state legislation cannot be lightly dismissed as a mere duplication, or of subordinate or no value, or as an almostforgotten clause of the Constitution.
Reference has been made to numerous cases in which
this court has rejected or ignored specific claims under the
privileges and immunities clause; but since none of them
relates to state legislation even remotely resembling the
Vermont law here challenged, their collection and citation is without useful result, unless, as it seems to be
thought, these numerous unsuccessful efforts to give the
clause applications which fall outside its meaning show or
tend to show that the clause itself has become a dead

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

letter. Such . conclusion is, of course, inadmissible; for
as we have already said, referring to the Bradwell case,
there are privileges and immunities which belong to a citizen of the United States as such; otherwise it would be
nonsense to prohibit a state from abridging them. Some
of these privileges and immunities we have already
pointed out; others are enumerated in the cases cited
under note 5.
To these illustrations we may add another, which here
is peculiarly pertinent. The business of insurance has
grown to vast proportions. Insurance companies issuing
policies are found in every state; and the activities of the
larger companies overflow state lines and extend into
every part of the country. But insurance is not commerce; and the right of a citizen to take out a policy in
one state, insuring property in another where he resides,
cannot be protected under the commerce clause. National protection, when appropriate, must be found in the
Fourteenth Amendment. It well cannot be doubted that
a citizen of the United States, residing and having property in Vermont, exercises a privilege of national citizenship when he negotiates and takes out in another state a
policy insuring that property, or takes out in another
state a policy insuring his life. There may be very cogent
reasons, resting in the strength of the company, terms of
the policy, and otherwise, making it desirable that he
should do so. And it well cannot be doubted that legislation of one state denying the privilege or taxing the
transaction when it occurs in another state, while leaving
the transaction wholly free from taxation when it takes
place in the former state, would abridge that privilege of
citizenship. It would be no answer to say that thereby
the former state was building up her local insurance companies and adding to the wealth of the state. Nor is it
any answer to say that the citizen may resort to other
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment which will afford

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
Opinion of the Court.

404

protection. The right of a citizen of the United States
resident in one state to contract in another may be a
liberty safeguarded by the due process of law clause, and
at the same time, none the less, a privilege protected by
the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. In such case he may invoke either or both.
This seems to be recognized in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165
U. S. 578, 589-592, where the court evidently thought
that under circumstances not unlike those just suggested
the words "liberty" and "privilege" were interchangeable terms.
It follows from what has been said that when a citizen
of the United States residing in Vermont goes into New
Hampshire, he does not enter foreign territory, but passes
from one field into another field of the same national domain. When he trades, buys or sells, contracts or negotiates across the state line, when he loans money, or takes
out insurance in New Hampshire-whether in doing so he
remains in Vermont or not-he exercises rights of national citizenship which the law of neither state can
abridge without coming into conflict with the supreme
authority of the federal Constitution.
The statute, as here applied, says that if a citizen resident in Vermont loan his money at 5% or less in another
state, he must pay a tax upon the income; but if he loan
money in Vermont at the same rate, no tax whatever shall
be imposed. The power to tax income here asserted by
-Vermont is, in the final analysis, the power to tax so heavily as to preclude loans outside the state altogether. It
reasonably is not open to doubt that the discriminatory
tax here imposed abridges the privilege of a citizen of the
United States to loan his money and make contracts with
respect thereto in any part of the United States.
The tax on dividends, already discussed and upheld,
rests in a different situation. Although dividends from
outside investments are taxed, and those from state in33682°-36-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

vestments in terms are exempt, they are, as already appears, in substance and effect treated alike-the one by
a tax falling directly upon the income of the individual
stockholders, and the other falling indirectly but no less
definitely upon that income, in the form of a tax which is
first imposed upon the corporation as a franchise tax
measured by income, but the burden of which ultimately
is borne by the stockholders. The effect is the same as
though the tax were imposed generally upon corporate
dividends without exception or discrimination. Travellers' Insurance Co. v. Connecticut, 185 U. S. 364, 369 et
seq. The same would be true of the tax on income from
loans, if it had been imposed in respect of all loans wherever made or if there had been some form of equalizing tax
which would have compensated for the burden cast upon
loans made in other states. But such is not the case. Income from loans made outside the state is taxed directly,
while income from loans made within the state is not taxed
directly or in any indirect way so as to equalize the burden.
Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 140, dealt with a sales
tax imposed upon all sales, whether made by a citizen of
the state where the tax was imposed or a citizen of another
state; and whether the goods sold were the product of the
state enacting the law or of some other state. This court
upheld the tax upon the ground that it did not discriminate against the products of other states or affect the
privileges or immunities of their citizens; but the court
clearly stated that if it had done so it would be an infringement of the provisions of the Constitution relating
to those subjects. The principle of that case is applicable
here and has the effect of sustaining the tax in respect
of dividends and condemning the tax in respect of loans.
Compare Travis v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., supra.
Third. The statute, so far as it applies to appellant,
provides that if the income taxed be derived wholly from
ownership of or interest in interest-bearing securities,
there shall be allowed an exemption of $800. If the in-

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

Opinion of the Court.

come be derived from other enumerated sources, an exemption is allowed of $2,000 against the "aggregate net
income."
It is manifest that if the legislation had provided that
where the taxpayer shall have income from both of these
general sources he shall not be entitled to both exemptions, the provision would have been open to no constitutional objection. Such legislation might properly permit
him, in that contingency, to select which of the exemptions he will take; or, on the other hand, might properly
specify which of the two exemptions shall be accorded
him. In effect, though not in terms, it is the latter alternative which the statute adopts. In terms, the statute
provides that if the taxpayer receive any income other
thart that derived from interest-bearing securities, the
personal exemption applicable to the latter class of income
shall not be allowed. But the right to the $2,000 exemption allowed in respect of class A income remains unaffected. The taxpayer who receives both classes oi income, while thus compelled to forego the smaller exemption, is accorded the larger one; and it is impossible reasonably to find in this situation anything arbitrary or
capricious. It is true that during the taxable year in
question appellant had no net income because his gross
income derived from salaries, etc., amounting to about
$70,000, was entirely absorbed by allowable deductions;
but this was an incident of the particular year in question
and might never happen again. He failed to obtain the
advantage of the exemption not because of any hostile
statutory intent or hostile enforcement of the tax, but
because of the collateral circumstance, peculiar, perhaps,
to him alone and to the taxable year in question, that his
entire gross income was absorbed by deductions, allowed
by the statute as a matter of grace as is the exemption
itself, so that nothing remained from which the amount
of the exemption or any part of it could be subtracted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

The question of equal protection must be decided in
respect of the general classification rather than by the
chance incidence of the tax in particular instances or
with respect to particular taxpayers. "And inequalities
that result not from hostile discrimination, but occasionally and incidentally in the application of a system that is
not arbitrary in its classification, are not sufficient to
defeat the law." Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 543.
"The operation of a general rule will seldom be the same
for every one. If the accidents of trade lead to inequality or hardship, the consequences must be accepted as inherent in government by law instead of government by
edict." Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 102. Cf.
Packardv. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 145; Gant v. Oklahoma
City, 289 U. S. 98, 102; Storaasliv. Minnesota, 283 U. S.
57, 62.
The general classification-namely, that the right to
a partial exemption from a tax upon one class of income
will depend upon whether the taxpayer is in receipt of
income of another class with respect to which a different
exemption applies-does not seem to us to be open to the
objection that it is arbitrary or capricious, simply because,
like any other general rule of taxation, its administration
may involve incidental instances of inequality.
We conclude that the taxing act is valid in respect of
the first and third points which we have discussed, but
invalid in respect of the second.
Reversed and remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with the
foregoing opinion.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think that the exemption, from the tax, of net income from money loaned within the state at not more
than 5%, like the exemption of income from dividends of

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

SToNE, J., dissenting.

corporations earned within the state, does not deny equal
protection or infringe any privilege or immunity of citizens of the United States, and that the judgment should
be affirmed in its entirety. Unless the constitutional
validity of the exemptions is to turn upon the ground that
we approve laws enacted to avoid taxing the same economic interest twice, but disapprove those to encourage
residents to invest their funds at home, it would seem
that the considerations which have led to upholding the
one exemption would not admit of condemning the-other.
See Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 127.
1. It is not denied that the effect of both exemptions
is to place a burden on income derived from sources or
investments made without the state which they do not
place' on income derived from like sources or investments
made within it. But that affords no ground for saying
that either is invalid. The equal protection clause does
not forbid inequalities in state taxation. A state may
select the objects to be taxed and selection, which is but
the converse of exemption, involves the imposition of a
tax burden on some which is not placed on others. As
this Court has repeatedly held, inequalities resulting from
the singling out of one particular class for taxation or
exemption, regardless of the reason for the choice, or even
if there is no discernible reason, are not to be pronounced
invalid where there is no clear indication that the purpose or effect is a. hostile or oppressive discrimination
against particular persons or classes. American Sugar
Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Board of Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S.553; Beers v. Glynn, 211 U.'S.
477; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, supra; Quong Wing
v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59; Citizens Telephone Co. v.
Fuller, 229 U. S. 322; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co.,
260 U. S.245; Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286 U. S.
276; Concordia Fire Insurance Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S.
535.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

The end sought by the classification is of significance in
passing upon the constitutionality of the tax only insofar
as it serves to show that the discrimination is not invidious. If it appears or may fairly be assumed that it is for
the purpose of promoting a permissible public aim, it cannot be condemned because one class must pay a tax which
another does not. Where the public interest is served one
business may be left untaxed and another taxed, in order
to promote the one, American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, supra; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., supra; Aero
Mayflower Transit Co. v. Georgia Commission, 295 U. S.
285, or to restrict or suppress the other, Magnano Co. v.
Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40; Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S.
87; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, supra; Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 304; Alaska Fish Co. v.
Smith, 255 U. S. 44, 48. But it is not necessary to go so
far to support the present exemption. There is no serious
contention that its purpose or effect is to suppress the lending of money without the state or to injure appellant or
his fellow residents of Vermont who may prefer to invest
their funds elsewhere. Nor can it.be said that the exemption was not granted in furtherance of a pehnissible state
policy, which was the legislative objective rather than an
invidious discrimination against appellant and others similarly situated.
It seems to be conceded that if the statute had placed
upon the tax gatherers the burden of ascertaining whether
money loaned within the state is invested in property
there, and had limited the exemnption to money so loaned
and invested, the tax would be sustained because of the
benefit which would result from the increase of ,wealth
in the state and the enlarged opportunity to obtain additional revenue. The attack is thus narrowed to the single
objection that there are exempted loans, some of which,
although made within the state, are or may be withdrawn
and used elsewhere. It is assumed that money thus loaned

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

STONE,

J., dissenting.

and withdrawn can be of no possible benefit to the state,
and it is declared that since such transactions may occur
the Court cannot determine whether the exemption will
have any beneficent effect and that it is therefore
invalid.
But there are benefits other than the increase of its
taxable wealth which a state is at liberty to stimulate by
its taxing policy, and exemptions have been sustained on
the broader ground that they foster some form of domestic industry. New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658, Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, supra; Fox v. Standard Oil Co.,
supra; Aero Mayflower Transit Co. v. Georgia Commission, supra. If Vermont chooses to encourage, by tax
exemption, loans at favorable rates of interest within the
stats, because it believes that local interests will be benefited, it can hardly be said for that reason to be contravening a constitution that has known a protective tariff for
more than one hundred years. See Alaska Fish Co. v.
Smith, supra, 48; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240
U'. S. 342, 347. It is true that a state may not lay taxes
on imports or burden interstate commerce, Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, but it is too late for this Court to
declare that a state may not favor domestic interests by
granting exemptions in the exercise of its taxing power.
It is not for us to say that the Vermont legislature was
unmindful of these broader advantages, or to declare that
the presence within the state of investment funds offered
at 5% or less to borrowers there, including those who are
carrying on the business and industry of the state, is not
beneficial; or that if any loans made within the state are
used elsewhere they are or ever would be more than
negligible in amount; or if they were that they could not
have a favorable effect on interest rates within the state,
which is a matter of state concern. When the Vermont
legislature adopted the present exemption, it had before it
the reports of two committees specially appointed to inves-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

tigate the tax system of the state, which clearly indicate
their judgment, based on a stuoly of conditions in the
state, that the existing system was driving investment
capital from the state or into secured and non-commercial
loans, and that a tax exemption embracing both secured
and commercial loans would tend to increase the supply
of investment capital for both and to reduce interest rates
in the state.1 This Court has no basis for saying that
those committees were wrong and no authority to say it.
The state supreme court has stated in the present case
that the legislature did havein mind these broader advantages, for it rested its decision on the ground that the
exemption was made "in the interest of thrift and state
development" and "for the assistance of the agricultural
and industrial interests of the state."
If in the face of so much which is persuasive of the legitimate purpose and effect of this legislation, we are to declare that we cannot say whether the benefits intended
either will or will not result, it does not follow that the
Vermont legislature is similarly uninformed. We must
assume that it is not, unless we are to discard the salutary
principle of decision, that, out of a decent respect to an
independent branch of the government, legislative acts
must be taken to be based on facts which support their
constitutional validity unless the contrary reasonably ap'The committee appointed in 1900 by the Governor of Vermont to
investigate double taxation and to recommend measures for its relief
found that the existing taxing system was driving capital from the
state or into tax exempt savings banks, and suggested an exemption
of loans secured by property returned for taxation in the state.
Double Taxation in Vermont; Report of Special Committee Appointed
to Report a Measure for its Relief to the Legislature of 1900, pp.
4, 15. In 1908 a similar committee recognized the same evils but did
not favor the exemption of secured loans alone, b6cause it would
increase interest rates on unsecured loans and cause a dearth of commercial credits. Vermont-Commission on Taxation-Report 1908,
pp. 43 ff,

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

STONE, J., dissenting.

pears. This Court, it is true, has held discriminations invalid where, upon the facts disclosed by the record or
within the range of judicial notice, it has felt able to say
that there could be no state of facts which could rationally support them. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia,
253 U. S. 412; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312; Louisville
Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32; Liggett Co.
v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517. But in no case has it rendered such
a judgment where it has declared that it is unable to say
that consequences which would justify the discrimination
will not result. Erb v. Morasch, 177 U. S. 584, 586;
Middleton v. Texas Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152, 158;
Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137, 143; Swiss Oil Corp. v.
Shanks, 273 U. S. 407, 413, 414; Fort Smith Light & Tractio~r Co. v. Paving DistrictNo. 16, 274 U. S. 387, 391, 392;
Clarke v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392; Silver v. Silver, 280 U.
S. 117, 123; O'Gorman& Young, Inc. v, Hartford Fire Ins.
Co., 282 U. S. 251, 257, 258; Board of Tax Commissioners
v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527, 537-541;' Hardware Dealers
Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. Glidden Co., 284 U. S. 151, 158;
Boston & Maine R. R. v. Armburg, 285 U. S. 234, 240;
Lawrence v, State Tax Comm'n, supra, 283; Concordia
Fire Insurance Co. v. Illinois, supra,547, 548; Metropolitan Casualty Insurance Co. v. Brownell, 292 U. S. 620;
Fox v. Standard Oil Co., supra. Unless, as we profess not
to do, Standard Oil Co. v. City of Marysville, 279 U. S.
582, we are to sit as a super-legislature, or as triers of the
facts on which a legislature is to say what shall and what
shall not be taxed, we are not free to say that the exemption will not induce residents to offer to lend their funds
within the state and at lower interest rates than they
otherwise would, or that opportunities thus afforded will
not be availed of by borrowers requiring funds for carrying on the commerce and industry of the state.
Even if we are to assume, in the absence of any actual
knowledge, that money loaned in the state at favorable

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

rates would not benefit it if used elsewhere, and further
that in fact some money is-so loaned and used, there is
no discernible reason why those circumstances 'should be
deemed to invalidate the tax and none is stated by the
Court. It is irrelevant that the state, which has selected
domestic loans for exemption in furtherance of a state
policy, has not excluded from the exemption every transaction which conceivably might not advance its purpose.
Whether the legislative object is completely achieved is
of no concern to this Court, once it appears that the exemption is made for a permissible end and bears some
reasonable relation to that end. Purpose or motive of
the selection of the objects of taxation and exemption is
material only so far as it is needful to ascertain whether
the discrimination is invidious. If the choice is not condemned for that reason, it has never been held that an
exemption must fail because it may benefit some who do
not advance the legislative purpose. A classification for
a permissible end is not to be condemned because it operates to prohibit transactions in themserves harmless, or
fails to reach others which are harmful. Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226
U. S. 192; Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297; Jacob
Ruppert, Inc. v. Cafley, 251 U. S. 264; Miller v. Wilson,
236 U. S. 373; Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718.
All taxes must of necessity be levied by general rules
capable of practical administration. In drawing the line
between the taxed and the untaxed the equal protection
clause does not command the impossible or the impractical. Unless the line which the state draws is so wide of
the mark as palpably to have no reasonable relation to
the legitimate end, it is not for tle judicial power to
reject it and say that another must be substituted.
Citizens' Telephone Co. v. Fuller, supra, 329; Miller v.
Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384; Clark v. Titusville, 184 U. S.
329, 331; Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, 228 U. S.

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

STONE,

J., dissenting.

61, 69, 70; see also Salomon v. Tax Commission, 278 U. S.
484; McCray v' United States, 195 U. S. 27; Quong Wing
v. Kirkendall, supra; Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S. 232, 237.
As the purpose of the exemption appears to be to encourage the lending of money within Vermont by its
residents, at low rates of interest, and as it appears reasonably calculated to have that effect, and as we cannot
say that such loans will not be of benefit to the state by
tending to establish the interest rate at 5% or less, and
by stimulating loans to borrowers for the purpose of
carrying on business and industry within the state, the
conclusion seems inescapable that the equal protection
clause does not forbid it.
2. Feeble indeed is an attack on a statute as denying
equal protection which can gain any support from the almost forgotten privileges- and immunities clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The notion that that clause
could have application to any but the privileges and immunities peculiar to citizenship of the United States, as
distinguished from those of citizens of states, has long
since been rejected. Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
It created no new privileges and immunities of United
States citizenship, Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, 133,
and, as they are derived exclusively from the Constitution
and laws enacted under it, the states were powerless to
abridge them before the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment as well as after. See Crandall v. Nevada, 6
Wall. 35.
Before the Amendment the privilege of passing from
state to state for the purpose of approaching the seat
of the national government, of transacting business with
it, and of gaining access to its courts, its public offices and
its ports, was declared in Crandall v. Nevada, supra, 44,
to be a right of national citizenship which could be exercised independently of the will of X\the state. Upon this

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

ground was placed the decision in that case that a state
capitation tax on passengers transported out of the state
by. railroad or stage coach infringed the Constitution. Noone could doubt that if the decision had been made at any
time after Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 472
(1874), and until the present moment, it would have been
rested on the commerce clause. This Court has many
times pointed out that movements of persons across state
boundaries are a part of interstate commerce, subject to
the regulation and entitled to the protection of the national government under the commerce clause. Caminetti
v. United States, 242 U. S. 470; Hoke v. United States,
227 U. S. 308; Mayor of Vidalia v. McNeely, 274 U. S.
676; GloucesterFerry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196;
cf. Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283. And it has specifically
pointed out that Crandallv. Nevada, supra, is overruled
so far as it referred the prdtection of such commerce to the
privileges and immunities clause rather than to the commerce clause. Helson and Randolph v. Kentucky, 279
U. S. 245, 251.
The privileges and immunities clause has consistently
been construed as protecting only interests, growing out
of. the relationship between the citizen and the national
government, created by the Constitution and federal laws.
In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448; McPherson v. Blacker,
146 U. S. 1, 38; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657, 661;
Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S.377, 382. Appeals to this
Court to extend the clause beyond these limitations have
uniformly been rejected, and even those basic privileges
and immunities secured against federal infringement by
the first eight amendments have been held not to be protected from state action by the privileges and immunities
clause. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Presserv. Illinois,
116 U. S.252; O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S.323; Maxwell
v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.
78; cf. Hurtado v. California,110 U. S.516; West v. Lou-

COLGATE v. HARVEY.
404

STONE,

J., dissenting.

isiana, 194 U. S. 258. The protection and control of intercourse between the states, not carried on in pursuance of
the relationship between the citizen and the national government, has been left to -the interstate commerce clause,
to the due process and equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and to Art. IV, § 2, guaranteeing
to the citizens of each state the privileges and immunities
of citizens in the several states. See Williams v. Fears,
179 U. S. 270. In no case since the adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment has the privileges and immunities clause been held to afford any protection to movements of persons across state lines or other form of
interstate transaction.
The reason for this reluctance to enlarge the scope of
the clause has been well understood since the decision of
the Slaughter-House Cases, supra. If its restraint upon
state action were extended more than is needful to protect
relationships between the citizen and the national government, and it did more than duplicate the protection
of liberty and property secured to persons and citizens by
the other provisions of the Constitution, it would enlarge
judicial control of state action and multiply restrictions
upon it to an extent difficult to define, but sufficient to
cause serious apprehension for the rightful independence
of local government. That was the issue fought out in
the Slaughter-House Cases, supra, with the decision
against the enlargement. Since the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment at least forty-four cases 2 have been
2Slaughter-House

Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Biradwell v. State, 16 Wall.

130; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Minor v. Happersett, 21
Wall. 162; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss,
100 U. S. 491; Presser v. Illinois, 116 U.'S. 252; Mahon v. Justice,
127 U. S. 700; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436; Crowley v. Christensen,
137 U. S. 86; McElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155; McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 1; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; Duncan v.
Missouri, 152 U. S. 377; Miller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535; In re Lockwood, 154 U. S. 116; Iowa Central Ry. v. Iowa, 160 U, S. 389; Plessy

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

-brought to this Court in which state statutes have been
assailed as infringements of the privileges and immunities clause. Until today none has held that state legislation infringed that clause.
If its sweep were now to be broadened to include protection of every transaction across state lines, regardless
of its connection with any relationship between the citizen
and the national government, a step would be taken, the
gravity of which might well give us concern. But it is
necessary to go much further before the present tax can
be condemned. If protection of the freedom of the citizen
to pass from state to state were the object of our solicitude, that privilege is adequately protected by the commerce clause, even though the purpose of his going be to
effect insurance or transact any other kind of business
which is in itself not commerce. But protection of the
citizen's freedom of movement, whether by the privileges
and immunities clause or by the commerce clause, will
afford appellant no relief from the present tax. The
record does not show that, he was ever outside the State
of Vermont and for aught that appears he acquired his
extra-state investments, which are in the form of negotiv. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537; Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.
557; Cumming v. Board of Education, 175 U. S.528; Maxwell v. Dow,
176 U, S. 581; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270; Orr v. Gilman, 183
U. S. 278; Cox'v. Texas, 202 U. S. 446; Board of Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S. 553; Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241; Western Turf
Assn. v. Greenberg, 204 U. S.359; Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S.34;
Wilmington Star Mining Co. v. Fulton, 205 U. S.60, 73; Twining v.
New Jersey, 211 U. S.78; Western Union v. Commercial Milling Co.,
218 U. S. 406; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Castle, 224 U. S. 541;
Graham v. West Virginia, 224 U. S. 616; Selover, Bates & Co. v.
Walsh, 226 U. S. 112; Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S.260; Waugh
v. Board of Trustees, 237 U. S. 589; Porter v. Wilson, 239 U. S. 170;
Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304; Armour & Co. v. Virginia, 246
U. S.1; Omaechevarriav. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343; Maxwell v. Bugbee,
250 U. S.525; Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U. S.94; PrudentialIns. Co.
v. Cheek, 259 U. S.530; Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S.245.

COLGATE v. HARVEY
404

STONE,

J., dissenting.

able corporate securities, by gift or purchase in Vermont.
Nor does it appear that the physical securities or payments of income -of which appellant has had the benefit
have crossed state lines. He can be saved from the tax
only by the extension of the immunity to his income
merely because the property from which it has been derived, or the corporation paying it, is located in another
state.
Such is the contention now made: that the privilege
of acquiring, owning and receiving income from investments without the state is a privilege of federal citizenship. And the suggestion is that the privilege is infringed
by taxing this income just as the commerce clause is
infringed by state taxation burdening the privilege of
carrying on commerce across state lines. In any case the
privileges and immunities clause is said to be infringed
by taxing this income at a different rate than income from
investments made within the state.
The novel application thus given to the clause, and the
arguments used to support it, leave one in doubt whether
it is thought to preclude all differences of taxation of the
two classes of income, or only to forbid such inequality
as is in some sense arbitrary and unreasonable. If the
'former, the clause becomes an inexhaustible source of immunities, incalculable in their benefit to taxpayers and in
their harm to local government, by imposing on the states
the heavy burden of an exact equality of taxation wherever transactions across state lines may be involved. If
the latter, it would seem to add nothing to the guarantee
of the equal protection clause, which extends to all "persons," including citizens of the United States. In that
case discourse upon the privileges and immunities
clause would appear to be a gratuitous labor of supererogation.
If the privilege of making investments without the state
is one protected by the privileges and immunities clause

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONS, J., dissenting.

296 U. S.

and a tax upon the income derived from them is analogous
to a tax upon the privilege of carrying on interstate corn-:
merce, we must not only accept the view that the privilege is infringed by the present tax, but it would follow
that any taxation of the income is forbidden. The answer
is, of course, that a state tax on net income derived from
interstate commerce has'never been regarded as a burden
on commerce or as an infringement of the commerce
clause. See United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247
U. S. 321; Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37; cf. Peck & Co.
v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165; Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S.
95. Far less could it be thought that a tax on property,
or income from it, is an interference with commerce because the property had at some time been or might some
time become the subject of such commerce: Cf. Heisler
v. Thomas Colliery Co., supra. In applying the privileges
and immunities clause, as now interpreted, no ground is
suggested, or well could be, for regarding a tax on income
from investments without the state as infringing the privi.lege of carrying on interstate transactions, any more than
a tax on net income derived from interstate commerce or
from property which had at some time moved in interstate
commerce infringes the commerce clause.
The contention that a state tax indirectly affecting
transactions carried on across state lines, not forbidden by
the commerce clause or by Art. IV, § 2, can be condemned
under the privileges and immunities clause, was definitely
rejected by this Court in Williams v. Fears,supra. There
a state occupation tax upon those engaged in hiring laborers for employment outside the state was held not to infringe "the privileges and immunities clause or the equal
protection clause.
So far as the objection is addressed to bare inequality
of taxation affecting interstate transactions, if valid, it
must be accepted as compelling equality' of taxation by

COLGATE v. HARVEY
404

STONE,

J., dissenting.

the state of the citizen's residence and as well by the state
into which the transaction extends. More than this, since
the exercise of thp privilege involves both states, it would
seem to be infringed not only by an unequal tax imposed
by either, but by any tax imposed at the normal rate by
both.
Starting with the dubious assumption that the protection of every movement of the citizen interstate, an acknowledged subject of the commerce clause, is independently a subject of the privileges and immunities clause,
the protection afforded by the latter is expanded until it
affords a refuge to the citizen from taxation which has
no necessary relation to his movements interstate and is
in fact not shown to impose any restraint upon them. A
tax immunity created avowedly for the protection of the
citizen's privilege of movement from state to state is thus
pressed far beyond the requirements .of the interest put
forward to justify it, and to a point which has never been
thought needful or even desirable for the protection of
the commerce of the nation. It is a transition effected
only by ignoring the decision of this Court in Williams
v. Fears,supra.
If mere difference in taxation is made the test of infringement, the iron rule of equality of taxation which
the equal protection and due process clauses have failed to
impose, see Bell's Gap R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra, 237,
is the first fruit of this expansion of the protection of the
privileges and immunities clause. To gain the benefits of
its shelter the citizen has only to acquire, by a transaction
wholly intrastate, an investment outside his state. I can
find in the language and history of the privileges and immunities clause no warrant for such a restriction upon
local government and policy. Citizens of the United
States are given no privilege not to pay taxes. It would
seem that a subordination of state taxing power to the
33682*-36--29

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
STONE, J., dissenting.

296 U. S.

interests of the individual, of such debatable wisdom,
could be justified only by a pointed command of the Constitution of plain import.
If we turn from the reasoning by which this application
of the privileges and immunities clause to state taxation
is supported to the decision now actually made, it seems
that the clause is thought to prohibit only those inequalities in taxation which are considered to be arbitrary and
unreasonable. The exemption of dividends derived from
corporate business carried on within the state, and the
taxation of similar dividends from without the state, is
held not to be an infringement of the clause. Exemption
of income from investments in property within the state
and taxation of like income from without the state is
thought to be valid. But the privileges and immunities
clause, it is declared, forbids any difference in the taxation of income from investment made within the state
and income from investment made without, a conclusion
which can only be attributed to the belief that this discrimination, as distinguished from the others, is arbitrary
and unreasonable.
We are thus returned to the point of beginning, to a
discussion of the question whether the exemption in the
present tax is so unreasonable, so without support of a
permissible state policy, as to infringe constitutional limitations. If the exemption does not merit condemnation
as a denial of the equal protection which the Fourteenth
Amendment extends to every person, nothing can be
added to the vehemence or effectiveness of the denunciation by invoking the command of the privileges and
immunities clause.
The judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

cur in this opinion.

and MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

con-

