OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

existing rates. 201 I. C. C. 165; 206 I. C. C. 445. Upon
the hearing by the District Court, composed of three
judges, the injunction was denied and the bill of complaint dismissed, but a restraining order was entered staying the enforcement of the Commission's order pending
appeal to this Court. 11 F. Supp. 588. The Railway
Company and intervening shippers appeal from so much
o F the decree as denied the injunction and dismissed the
bill of complaint, and the United States, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and others, appeal from that part
of the decree which stayed the enforcement of the Commission's order.
This Court, upon an examination of the record, agrees
with the conclusion of the District Court that the order
in question was sustained by findings of the Commission
acting within its statutory authority and that these findings were adequatIly supported by evidence. The decree
denying injunction and dismissing the bill of complaint
'is affirmed. Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. United States,
295 U. S. 395.
This disposition of the case makes it unnecessary to
pass upon that portion of the decree which stayed the
enforcement of the Commission's order. See Virginian
Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. ,658.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. HASTINGS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT'OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 22. Argued November 12, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.
1. Upon appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act from an order
quashing an indictment, this Court must accept the construction
of the indictment placed upon it by the District Court. P. 192.
2. This Court cannot entertain an appeal by the Government, under
the Criminal Appeals Act, from a judgment of the District Court

UNITED STATES v. HASTINGS.
188

Syllabus.

quashing an indictment, where the judgment was based not only
upon the invalidity or construction of the statute upon which the
indictment was founded but also upon another and independent
ground. United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, in part disapproved. Pp. 193-194.
3. A case may be reviewed under the Criminal Appeals Act even
though one of the grounds certified for sustaining a demurrer is
that the indictment fails to charge an offence, if it be apparent
that this specification was but introductory to other grounds which
clearly involve the construction and validity of the statute on
which the indictment was founded. Pp. 194-195.
4. The United States Warehouse Act, as amended, provides for the
licensing and regulation by the Secretary of Agriculture of warehouses in which any agricultural product is stored for interstate
or foreign commerce, or, if located within any place under the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, in which any agricultural product is stored; warehouse receipts are to be issued for all
agricultural products stored for interstate or foreign commerce, or
in any place subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States, in warehouses so licensed; and, by § 10 (U. S. C. Supp.
VII, Title 7, § 270) removal, contrary to the Act or 'egulations,
of any agricultural, products stored in a licensed warehouse and
for which "licensed receipts" have been or are to be issued, is
made a misdemeanor. Held:
(1) That, despite the broad language used in some of its parts,
the Act, aside from its application to places within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States, should be construed as limited
in its operation to storage for interstate or foreign commerce.
P. 198.
•
(2) The term "licensed receipts" in the penal section means
the receipts for products stored for interstate or foreign commerce, when not stored in a place under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States. P. 199.
(3) An indictment for unlawful removal need not allege ownership, value of goods, and intent to defraud as in a common-law
indictment for larceny. Pp. 194, 199.
(4) It is, however, an essential ingredient of the offense that
the goods removed have been stored for interstate or foreign commerce, or in a place subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States, and that warehouse receipts have been or are to be
issued fcr such storage; and this must be alleged in the indictment. P. 199.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

190

Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

5. No opinion is expressed respecting the power of Congress to
punish removal of products stored in licensed warehouses, in
places not within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States.:
P. 200.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court quashing
an indictment upon a demurrer.

Assistant Attorney General Keenan, with whom Solicitor General Reed' and Mr. Amos W. W. Woodcock were
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Messrs. Ed C. Brewer,
Charles A. Sisson, and Challen B. Ellis were on the brief.

for appellee.
M\R. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Defendant was indicted in the District Court of the
United States for violation of the United States Warehouse Act. 7 U. S. C. 270. The indictment contained

three counts, each charging the/" removal and stealing"
of a numbered bale of cotton from a licensed warehouse

contrary to the statute and regulations.'
1 The

A demurrer was

charge in the first count (the other counts being similar) was

that defendant (and another) "did knowingly, wilfully, and unlawfully and without any authority of law, remove and steal from and
out of the warehouse of the Federal Compress and Warehouse Company, Clarksdale, Mississippi, being the warehouse of said Federal
Compress and Warehouse Company known and designated as Plant
No. 2, said warehouse being then and there a duly licensed warehouse
under and pursuant to the provisions of the United States Warehouse
Act, certain agricultural products then and there stored and on storage in said warehouse, to wit: a certain bale of cotton identified on
the records of said warehouse as bale of cotton number 407784, for
which said bale of cotton a licensed warehouse receipt had theretofore
been issued by said Federal Compress and Warehouse Company, the
removal and stealing of said cotton from said licensed warehouse being

UNITED STATES v. HASTINGS.
188

Opinion of the Court.

sustained and the Government brings this appeal under
the Criminal Appeals Act. 18 U. S. C. 682.
The penal provision of the statute, so far as pertinent
here, is as follows:
"Every person who shall . . .remove from a licensed
warehouse contrary to this chapter or the regulations promulgated thereunder, any agricultural products stored or
to be stored in such warehouse, and for which licensed
receipts have been or are to be issued, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $10,000, or double the
value of the products involved if such double value exceeds $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten years, or
both, in the discretion of the court, . . ."
The District Judge certified his grounds for sustaining
the demurrer as follows:
"(1) That said indictment fails to charge any offense
against the laws of the United States;
"(2) That the indictment fails to charge that the cotton alleged to have been removed and stolen was the
property of any person;
"(3) That the indictment fails to allege the name of
the owner of said cotton, and does not charge any intent
to defraud the owner thereof;
"(4) That the indictment does not allege the value of
the cotton alleged to have been removed and stolen, or
that the cotton was of any value;
"(5) That section 270, title 7, of the United States
Code, being the section under which the indictment is
drawn, is unconstitutional, in that, Congress is without
authority under the Constitution to make it an offense
then and there contrary to and in violation of the said United States
Warehouse Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder, contrary
to the form of the statute in such case made and provided, and against
the peace and dignity of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

against the laws of the United States to remove agri-

culturf I products from a Federal licensed warehouse as
alleged in the indictment."
1. The jurisdiction of this Court. If the first four
grounds of the decision, as stated in the certificate of the
District Judge, are to be taken as wholly independent of
the questions of the construction and validity of the
United States Warehouse Act, those grounds may not be
challenged on this appeal. The statute conferring jurisdiction on appeal by the Government in criminal prosecutions confines that jurisdiction to cases where the decision
of the District Court, on demurrer, motion to quash or
in arrest of judgment, "is based upon the invalidity or
construction of the statute upon which the indictment is
founded," or where the District Court has sustained "a
special plea in bar, when the defendant has not been put
in jeopardy." 18 U. S. C. 682. The proposal to confer
a broader jurisdiction was considered by the Congress and
rejected.2 Thus the construction of the indictment and
its sufficiency merely as a pleading, as distinguished from
the construction of the statute, are questions for the District Court. We must accept the construction of the indictment as that court gives it. And where that court
has rested its decision upon the invalidity or construction
of the statute which underlies the indictment, this Court
will not g6 beyond those grounds and consider other objections to the indictment. United States v. Keitel, 211
U. S. 370, 397, 398; United States v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599,
602; United States v. Carter, 231 U. S. 492, 493; United
States v. Moist, 231 U. S. 701, 702; United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 301, 302; United States v.
Schrader's Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85, 98; United States v.
Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450, 461.
'H. R. Rep. 59th Cong., 1st sess., vol. 1, No. 2119; Sen. Rep. 59th
Cong., 1st sess., vol. 2, No. 3922; H. R. Rep. 59th Cong., 2d sess.,
vol. 2, No. 8113.

UNITED STATES v. HASTINGS.
188

Opinion of the Court.

A distinct question is presented where the District
Court has not placed its decision solely upon the invalidity or construction of the statute, but has also sustained
the demurrer or granted the motion to quash the indictment upon wholly independent grounds of insufficiency.
In such a case the judgment of the District Court would
remain in effect, and the defendant would go free of the
indictment, whatever views we might express upon appeal
as to the construction or validity of the statute. We
could not reverse the judgment upon questions not before
us. An indictment not merely attacked, but found to be
invalid on grounds not open here, would be made the
vehicle of an effort to obtain from this Court an expression of an abstract opinion, which might or might not fit
a subsequent prosecution of the same defendant or others
but would not determine the instant case. Review of a
judgment which we cannot disturb, because it rests adequately upon a basis not subject to our examination,
would be an anomaly.
An analogous situation is found in cases where the jurisdiction of this Court has been invoked on writs of
error or appeals from judgments of state courts, and it
appears that, notwithstanding the existence of a federal
question, and its consideration and determination by the
state court, the judgment rests upon a nonfederal ground
adequate to support it and hence would not be affected
by a decision by this Court of the federal question. In
such cases, we refuse review. While the earlier practice
was to affirm the judgment without considering the federal question, the later practice has been to dismiss the
writ of error or appeal. Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall.
590, 634, 635; Jenkins v. Loewenthal, 110 U. S. 222; Hale
v. Akers, 132.U. S. 554, 565; Hammond v. Johnston, 142
U. S. 73, 78; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, 370; Enterprise IrrigationDistrict v. Farmers Canal Co., 243 U..S.
157, 164, 166; Petrie v. Nampa Irrigation District, 248
33682°-36---13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

U. S. 154, 157; Ex parte Steckler, 292 U. S. 610; Capital
Endowment Co. v. Ohio, post, p. 546.
It was in the light of the considerations governing the:
exercise of the judicial power that the Criminal Appeals
Act was enacted and appeals by the Government were
subjected to the prescribed limitations. United States v.
Evans, 213 U. S. 297, 300. We think that the provision
which limits the Government's appeal to those cases
where tie decision or judgment of the District Court is
"based" upon the invalidity or construction of the statute, should be taken to refer to cases where that determinition, and not a wholly independent ground, is the
foundation of the judgment. If the judgment is independently based, and in that respect is not open to correction or reversal, we are of the opinion that this Court
should not entertain the Government's appeal. To the
extent that the opinion in the case of United States v.
Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 195, states a contrary view, it
is disapproved.
Are the first four grounds stated by the District Judge
independent of the construction of the statute? The first
ground may fairly be regarded as not a distinct ground,
or a finding of the insufficiency of the indictment as a
mere matter of pleading, but as intended to be an introduction to the specifications which follow- and to be read
in their light. Treating the first ground in this sense,
and as merely preliminary, we turn to the specifications
in the second, third and fourth grounds, which clearly
involve the cbnstruction of the Act. That is, they go
upon the view that the ingredients of the statutory
offense are similar to those of common law larceny and
that to establish the offense it must be alleged and proved
that the cotton in question was the property of a person
named, was removed with intent to defraud the owner,
and had value. It is the contention of the Government
that this is an unwarranted construction and that the

UNITED STATES v. HASTINGS.
188

Opinion of the Court.

words of the statute, which do not contain such requirements, are fully descriptive of the statutory offense.
In his fifth ground, the District Judge expressly deals
with the constitutionality of the provision, holding that
Congress is without authority "to make it an offense
against the laws of the United States to remove agricultural products from a federal licensed warehouse as alleged in the indictment." The concluding words challenge attention to the absence from the indictment of an
allegation that the cotton was stored for interstate or
foreign commerce. The statement of the District Judge
may be taken to be a construction of the indictment as
charging simply the removal of the cotton from a federal
licensed warehouse which had issued a receipt, without
alleging that the cotton was stored for interstate or foreign commerce, and that the receipt was issued accordingly. We are not at liberty to construe the indictment
otherwise. While in this view, the present appeal does
not bring up the questions broadly discussed at the bar
as to products stored for interstate or foreign commercequestions which must await a different and appropriate
record-the appeal does present a narrower but still important question as to the scope of the penal provision.
That is, whether Congress sought to exert and, if so, could
validly exert, such a measure of control over warehouses
operating under federal licenses, as to penalize the removal of products deposited in such warehouses, and receipted for, regardless of the purpose, or the nature of
the commerce, for which the deposit was made.
We have jurisdiction to determine these questions of
construction and validity.
2. The construction of the statute. To construe the
penal provision, we turn to its context, to the statutory
definition of the terms it employs, and to the purpose thus
disclosed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

The Act' defines the term "warehouse" as "every
building, structure, or other protected enclosure in which
any agricultural product is or may be stored for interstate
or foreign commerce, or, if located within any place under
the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, in which
any agricultural product is or may be stored." 7 U. S. C.
§ 242. The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make
investigations and classifications, to issue licenses and to
prescribe the duties of licensed warehousemen, who must
give bond for the faithful performance of their obligations. Id., §§ 243-247. The Secretary is also authorized
to issue licenses to competent persons to inspect, sample,
classify and weigh agricultural products stored or to be
stored in licensed warehouses, and to give certificates accordingly. Id., § 252. Those conducting licensed warehouses are required to receive for storage, within their
capacity, agricultural products of the kind customarily
stored by them if such products are tendered "in a suitable condition for warehousing" and " in the usual manner" according to the ordinary course of business, "without making any discrimination between persons desiring
to avail themselves of warehouse facilities." Id., § 254.
Persons who deposit agricultural products for storage in
licensed warehouses are to be deemed to have made the
deposit subject to the statute and the. regulations it authorizes. Id., § 255. It is then provided that "Any fungible agricultural product stored for interstate or foreign
commerce, or in any place under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States" in a licensed warehouse must be
inspected and graded by a person licensed for that purpose. Id. § 256.
The following provision for the issue of warehouse receipts is of special importance:
'Act of August 11, 1916, c. 313, Part C, 39 Stat. 486, amended by
Acts of February 23, 1923, c. 106, 42 Stat. 1282, and March 2, 19311
c. 366, 46 Stat. 1463; 7 U. S. C., §§ 241-273.

UNITED STATES v. HASTINGS.
188

Opinion of the Court.

"For all agricultural products stored for interstate or
foreign commerce, or in any place under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States, in a warehouse licensed
under this chapter original receipts shall be issued by the
warehouseman conducting the same, but no receipts shall
be issued except for agricultural products actually stored
in the warehouse at the time of the issuance thereof."
Id., § 259.
The next section prescribes the contents of receipts
which may be taken to refer to the receipts required by
the provision above quoted. Id., § 260.
In the original Act of 1916 it was provided that nothing therein should "be construed to conflict with, or to
authorize any conflict with, or in any way to impair or
limit the effect or operation of the laws of any State relating to warehouses, warehousemen, weighers, graders,
or classifiers," but the Secretary of Agriculture was authorized " to co6perate" with state officials and "through
such co6peration to secure the enforcement " of the provisions of the Act. Act of August 11, 1916, Part C, § 29,
39 Stat. 490. This section was amended in 1931, so hs to
provide for co6peration with state officials in the "discretion " of the Secretary, and with the addition that
" the power, jurisdiction, and authority" conferred upon
the Secretary should be "exclusive with respect to all
persons securing a license," so long as the license remains
in effect. Act of March 2, 1931, 46 Stat. 1465; 7 U. S. C.
§ 269.
Then follows the provision prescribing penalties for the
forging, altering, counterfeiting, etc. of licenses, the issue
of false or fraudulent receipts, and the conversion or the
unauthorized removal from a licensed warehouse.of agricultural products for which "licensed receipts ' have been
or are to be issued. Id., § 270.
The instant case relates to cotton, and the Government
emphasizes the salient facts as to the customary move-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

ment and marketing of cotton. But the Act is not limited to cotton. Originally, the Act defined "agricultural
products" as embracing "cotton, wool, grains, tobacco
and flaxseed." " By regulations under the Act as amended,
it has been extended to a variety of products.' The Act
is not limited to one section of the country, or to particular market conditions, but applies generally to warehouses for these varied commodities. The Government
points to the permissive character of the statute which, it
is said, should have "great weight in determining whether
Congress has encroached upon the powers of the ,States."
And Congress could not fail to have in mind that there
were warehouses in many States, operating under state
laws and serving local demands in intrastate transactions;
receiving for storage and issuing receipts for agricultural
products in connection with enterprises and trade that are
entirely local.
It would need stronger evidence than this Act affords
to justify the conclusion that Congress intended that
warehousemen, in taking advantage of the federal statute and in issuing warehouse receipts as required by its
terms, should submit to federal control the deposit of
products and the issue of warehouse receipts in the course
of their local business where the products were not stored
for interstate or foreign commerce. Despite the broad
language of certain sections of the Act, we think that
(aside from places within the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States) the limitation to storage for interstate
or foreign commerce is dominant. We have observed how
specific is this limitation in the provision requiring the
issue of warehouse receipts. To repeat, the requirement
'Act
'Act
United
(1925),

of August 11, 1916, c. 313, Part C, 39 Stat. 486.
of February 23, 1923, c. 106, 42 Stat. 1282; "Once Again the
States Warehouse Act," U. S. Department of Agriculture
p. 3.

UNITED STATES v. HASTINGS.
188

Opinion 6f the Court.

is that receipts shall be issued "for all agricultural products stored for interstate or foreign commerce, or in any
place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States," in a warehouse licensed under the Act. § 259.
The amendment of 193.1, with respect to conflict with
the operation of state laws, does not militate against this
limitation, for while the amendment asserts the exclusive authority of the Secretary of Agriculture, it has relation to the authority conferred by the Act, and the definition in the original Act of the warehouses which may
be licensed and the provision of § 259 as to the products
for which warehouse receipts are to be issued, were left
unchanged by the amendment.
The penal section under which the indictment is laid
defines the offense as not simply the unauthorized removal of agricultural products from a "licensed warehouse," but the removal of products " for which licensed
receipts have been or are to be issued." § 270. We think
that the term "licensed receipts" refers to those prescribed by the statute as above stated.
We agree with the Government that the penal section is
fully descriptive of the statutory offense and does not require that a charge of violation should contain allegations such as would be appropriate in the case of common
law larceny. But the statute does require that in order
to make out a violation through the unauthorized removal
of agricultural products, it is not enough that the removal should be from a licensed warehouse, or that a receipt has been given by the warehouseman, but the removal must also be of products for which "licensed receipts" have been or are to be issued. That is, it is an
essential ingredient of the offense that. the products have
been stored for interstate or foreign commerce, or in a
place subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States, and that warehouse receipts have been or are to be
issued for such storage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

3. As we conclude that the Congress has not attempted
to punish the removal of products not stored for interstate or foreign commerce (when the place of storage is
not within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States),
we need not consider the constitutional objections to such
an effort. And as we do not have before us the case of a
removal of products stored for interstate or foreign commerce, and for which receipts have been given accordingly, we express no opinion as to the extent of the power
of the Congress in that relation.
Because of the absence from the charge of an essential
element of the offense as defined in the statute, the District Court did not err in sustaining the demurrer.
Affirmed.

GENERAL UTILITIES & OPERATING CO. v. HEL-

VERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued November 15, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. When a corporation, owning shares in another company which
have increased in value since it bought them, declares a dividend
payable in such shares, out of the surplus arising from such increase, and pays it accordingly by distributing such shares in
specie among its stockholders, no taxable gain results to the corporation. This is not a sale to stockholders; nor a use of assets
to discharge indebtedness. Pp. 202, 206.
2. In reviewing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, the Circuit
Court of Appeals may not sustain an assessment over the Board's
decision upon a ground which was not presented to the Board
nor in the petition for review; the taxpayer is entitled to know
with fair certainty the basis of the claim against him. P. 206.
3. The Circuit Court of Appeals committed error in this case, not
only in deciding a question not properly raised, but also in making an inference of fact in conflict with the stipulation of the par-

