HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
300

315

Syllabus.

The controversy in this aspect is one of local law,
which, once it is ascertained, must be accepted as controlling. Security Trust Co. v. Black River National
Bank, supra; Forrest v. Jack, 294 U. S. 158; Seabury v.
Green, 294 U. S. 165. The decree discharging the executo, s amounts to a construction of the Illinois statute by a
court of the state, and a court of special competence and
experience in disposing of such questions. There being
no satisfactory showing that the decision overpasses the
bounds of jurisdiction, we yield to its authority.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the order of the Board of Tax Appeals affirmed.
Reversed.
HOPKINS FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN. ET AL.
v. CLEARY ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 55. Argued November 18, 19, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.
1. The Federal Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, § 5 (i), as amended,
must be construed as providing that any state building and loan
association which has become a member of a Federal Home Loan
Bank by subscribing to its shares, may convert itself into a Federal Savings and Loan Association upon the vote of a baremajority of its members and without the consent of the State that
created it. P. 332.
This construction is corroborated by a comparison of the Act
in its present form with its form before amendment, and with
other analogous legislation. P. 333.
2. Courts cannot ignore the plain meaning of a statute in order to

avoid a decision upon its validity, P. 334.
3. The Home Owners' Loan Act, to the extent that it permits the
conversion of state associations into federal ones in contravention
* Together with No. 56, Reliance Building & Loan Assn. v. Cleary
et al.; and No. 57, Northev Budding,& Loan Assn. v. Cleary et al.
Certiorari to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

296 U.S.

of the laws of the .place of their creation, is an unconstitutional
encroachment upon the reserved powers of the States. United
States Constitution, Amendmenb X. Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673,
explained and distinguished. P. 335.
4. Building and Loan Associations, in Wisconsin and other States,
are not merely business corporation3; they are quasi-public instruments, created and fostered by the State, for the common good.
P. 336.
5. The destruction of such associations, established by a State, is
not an exercise of power reasonably necessary for the maintenance
by the central government of other associations created by itself
in furtherance of kindred ends. P. 338.
6. The State of Wisconsin, in vindication of her public policy, and
also as parens patriae acting on behalf of non-consenting shareholders and creditors, has a standing as litigant to prevent the
conversion of a local building and loan association into a federal
corporation, contrary to her statutes and without her consent.
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, distinguished. P. 339.
217 Wis. 179; 257 N. W.,684, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 721, to review judgments of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin in three actions. In No.
55 the suit originated in that court and was brought by
the State Banking Commission against a local building
and loan association, for the purpose of annulling proceedings whereby the association sought to convert itself
into a federal corporation, and compelling the directors
and officers to continue the business in accordance with
Wisconsin law or else to wind it up. The state court
granted the decree. The other two cases were suits by
two other such associations against the Commission to
restrain it from interfering with similar conversions of
their status. Decrees in their favor were reversed by
by the court below.

Messrs. Emery J. Woodall and Horace Russell, with
whom Messrs. JohnH. Schlintz, B. F. Saltzstein, Wallace
Reiss, and J. Aldrich Hall were on the brief, for petitioners.

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

317

Argument for Petitioners.

Section 5 (i) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933
is an absolute grant of right and power to any member of
a Federal Home Loan Bank to convert itself into a Federal Savings and Loan Association.
Congress refused or failed to require that conversion
shall not contravene state laws.
Similar federal conversion statutes have been so interpreted by this Court. Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673, 678.
Congress had power to use the public moneys, and to
provide for the borrowing of money, to be loaned in a
systematic and general plan to promote thrift and home
financing. Having this power, it could adopt appropriate
means, and create instrumentalities.
The power of Congress to create federal savings and
loan associations is implicit in and resulta nt from several
of the express powers of Congress, i. e., the power to tax;
the power to borrow; the power to make all laws necessary and proper in executing the powers.
The General Welfare Clause is a limitation upon the
taxing power rather than an independent power. It prescribes that appropriation of moneys obtained from taxation shall be for objects which concern the common defense
and general welfare. Hamilton, Report on Manufactures,
December 5, 1791, 3 Works (John C. Hamilton) 192;
Hamilton, Opinion on Bank of the United States, February 23, 1791, 4 id. 104; Jefferson, Opinion on Bank of the
United States, February 15, 1791, 5 Writings (Ford), 284;
President Monroe, Message on the Subject of Internal
Improvements, in connection with his veto of the Cumberland Road Bill, May 4,1822. See Willoughby, Const.,
2d ed., §§ 61, 62; Story, Const., 5th ed., §§ 979 et seq;
also §§ 906-991. See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 199;
UnitedStates v. Gettysburg Electric Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 668,
681; United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427, 440.
Story, § 991, contains an enumeration of instances of appropriations which have not been limited to enumerated

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

296 U.S.

powers of Congress, Cooley, Taxation, 4th ed., §§ 106,
107, 109. United States v. Weirton Steel Co., 10 F. Supp.
55, 87.
The borrowing power is subject to no express limitations. Implicitly funds so obtained must be appropriated
for a public use. Selection of the objects is a political
question to be determined by Congress. Juilliardv. Greenman, 110 U. S. 421. As to public use, see Fallbrook Irrigation Districtv. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 161 et seq.; Clark
v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Houck v. Little River Drainage
District, 239 U. S.254.
The power to make all laws necessary and proper in
executing other powers includes the power to create a corporation as a means of accomplishing the object of an appropriation by Congress, for ,the general welfare. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Osborn v. The Bank, 9
Wheat. 738; Smith V. Kansas City Title & Trust Co.,
255 U. S. 180.
Instead of an outright appropriation of public moneys
to promote thrift and home financing, Congress chose to
create corporate instrumentalities and to appropriate
funds to be used as revolving oapital funds of federal
home loan banks and federal savings and loan associations. The purpose thus subserved, through the provisions of the Act, was a public purpose and for the general welfare. 1 Hamilton Works, pp. 236, 237; 3 id. 250;
4 id. 111; Osborn v. The Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316.
Congress has power to create any fiscal agencies which
it deems necessary and proper to the operations of the
Federal Government, and its decision is not open to judicial review. It may create by conversion of state institutions, as in this instance, moneyed institutions to
serve as fiscal agents of the Government and to provide
a market for United States bonds. McCulloch v. Maryland, supra; Farmers & Merchants Nat. Bank v. Dearing,

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

319

Argument for Petitioners.

91 U. S. 2e,. 33, 34; Osborn v. The Bank, 9 Wheat. 738;
Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457; Mercantile Bank v.
New York, 121 U. S.138; Davis v. Elmira Savings Bank,
161 U. S. 275; Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220; First National Bank v. Trust Co., 244 U. S.416; Smith v. Kansas
City Title & Trust Co., supra; Hamilton, Opinion on the
Bank, supra; Story, Const. 5th ed., §§ 1259-1271; Willoughby, Const., 2d ed., § 80.
The twelve Federal Home Loan Banks are banking
instrumentalities facilitating the fiscal operations of the
Government. They are designed to promote home financing and to relieve the -other financial institutions in the
national fiscal system from the demands of long term
home financing credits.
Federal savings and loan associations are fiscal agencies
through which the Government supplies financial aid,
through loans on a general plan. They are bound to perform all reasonable duties imposed upon them as such
agents. They aid in the exercise of the borrowing power
by the provisions for investment and dealing in United
States bonds.
Federal savings and loan associations are banking instrumentalities to provide home mortgage credit. Cf.
Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S.180,
210, 211.
There was no delegation of legislative authority by
Congress in authorizing the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board to make rules and regulations providing for the
organiiation, incorporation, examination, operation, conversion, reorganization, consolidation, merger or liquidation of federal savings and loan associations.
The conversion of a member of a federal home loan
bank into a federal savings and loan association does not
deprive either the State which incorporated such institution or any of the stockholders of property or contract
rights without due process of law. Norman v. Baltimore

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondents.

296 U.S.

& Ohio R. Co., 294 U. S. 240, 307; New York v. United
States, 257 U. S. 591, 600, 601; Home Bldg. & Loan Assn.
v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 435.
It would seem that the question was definitely settled by Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673. In that case the
bank, under a similar statute (§ 4 of the Act of June 3,
1864, 13 Stat. 99, 112) converted itself into a national
bank. Its action was held valid. The conversion statute
was held constitutional. Such conversion was not a deprivation of property without due process of law nor an
impairment of contract rights.
Mr. Joseph P. Brazy, with whom Mr. J. E. Finnegan,
Attorney General of Wisconsin, and Mr. Benjamin Poss
were on the brief, for respondents.
The court below properly held that the Act merely
consents to conversion of state associations when permitted by the State.
Possessing the sovereign power to create these corporations, the State may endow them with such powers as
it deems appropriate. It may impose such conditions
upon the right to incorporate as it sees fit; and by accepting a charter from the State, the corporation accepts the
conditions. Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S.
594, 600.
It is submitted that the State has the sole right to grant
powers to its corporate instrumentalities or withhold powers from them. A corporation obtains all of its powers from
the same source that it does its existence, i. e., the State.
If the State wishes to create corporations which have no
power to convert, or to engage in interstate commerce, or
to hold real estate, or to do one hundred other things which
the State desires shall not be done, the State may enforce
its wishes by withholding these powers in the grant of the
privilege of incorporation. This has always been the set-

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.

321

Argument for Respondents.

315

tled law of Wisconsin. Janesville Bridge Co. v. Stoughton, 1 Pinney's Wis. Rep. 667, 672; Kappers v. Cast Stone
ConstructionCo., 184 N. W. 627; Fleischerv. Pelton Steel
Co., 183 Wis. 451; Northwestern National Ins. Co. v.
Freedy, 201 Wis. 51. The same rule has been expressed by
this Court. Head and Amory v. Providence Insurance Co.,
2 Cranch 127; Thomas v. West Jersey R. Co., 101 U. S. 71.
The powers conferred on a corporation by its charter
and the laws of the State creating it cannot be enlarged by
Congress. Our dual system of Government does not permit Congress to amend or repeal the statutes of a State except on those subjects where the Federal Government has
exclusive jurisdiction if it chooses to exercise it, e. g. bankruptcy. Cf. Federal Land Bank v. Crookston Trust Co.,
180 Minn. 319.
In Wisconsin the charter of a corporation is a legislf.tive act and must be givefn the same respect as any other
state statute. Casper v. Kalt-Zimmers Mfg. Co., 159
Wis. 517.
Petitioners will concede that the conversion which they
are attempting to effect means the cessation of business
by the building and loan association as a state corporation.
If effected it means that the State is ousted of all jurisdiction over the association. The Federal Government becomes the sovereign of these corporations with full power
to control and alter them as it sees fit. The State has
been deprived of an instrumentality which it has created
and controlled for its own benefit in the exercise of its
governmental functions.
The charter issued by the State and accepted by the
instrumentality is a contract that cannot be discharged
by the consent of only one of the parties thereto.
The respondent commission was created not only to
see that the governmental function,. was. properly discharged by these associations, but also to protect the
33682°-36.-- 21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondents.

296 U.S.

rights of its stockholders. The proposed conversions, it
is submitted, violate the rights of those stockholders who
do not desire their association to convert.
It would seem that the vested rights of members of
state building and loan associations or their creditors
should be protected under the Fifth Amendment from
destruction or impairment by the Federal Congress.
It is hard to justify the language in Casey v. Gatli, 94
U. S.673, even as applied to banks.
It is submitted that the doctrine which authorizes the
Federal Government to take over state banks without
state consent, stretches the Federal Constitution to the
breaking point. The right to create its own banking instrumentalities does not include the right to take away
the banking instrumentalities of the sovereign States, unless perhaps such tating over be necessary for the very
preservation of the Federal Government. Such necessity
does not exist.
An acceptance of the doctrines urged by petitioners
that the Federal Government has the power to transmute
any state corporation which directly or indirectly may aid
the~ederal Government by purchasing government bonds
or promoting the "general welfare," would mean complete ruination of the several States.
The creation of a national corporation must be "necessary or proper for the carrying into execution . . . the
powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any department or officer thereof."
What power, express or implied, of the Federal Government supports its creation of these savings and loan associations? What lawful power is the Federal Government
attempting to carry out when it organizes these associations?
The power given to ( ongress to lay and collect taxes
does not justify the sponsoring and regulation of federal

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

323

Argument for Respondents.

savings and loan associations, unless this power be construed as a grant to Congress of the unlimited power to
enact general welfare legislation wholly dissociated from
the power to tax. If this construction were adopted, our
Federal Government would be changed from a government of limited delegated and enumerated powers to one
of unlimited powers, and the States would be deprived
of a substantial portion of the power reservedto them
upon the adoption of the Constitution.
The taxing power of Congress is not applicable. The
prime purpose of these associations is to raise money
among their members to aid them in acquiring or building homes. It is not contemplate4 that they should
serve as distributing agents for federal funds. The Federal Government aids them in the beginning by purchasing stock, which must be re-purchased by the associations.
In substance, the Federal Government makes a loai to the
local association to permit it to start in business. After
that, it is contemplated that it shall continue in business
exclusively on the moneys raised among its own members;
but the Federal Government continues to regulate and
control it.
The scope and meanir.g of the general welfare clause
have been the subject of much discussion and controversy.
For an exhaustive and able analysis, see opinions of
Newton D. Baker and James M. Beck, November 22,
1934 and January 11, ,935, cited in Duke Power Co. v.
Greenwood County, JJ F. Supp. 854, 869.
Nor can the powr r to borrow money sustain the creation of these local in 3titutions. It is not the Federal Government's purpose t) borrow money from them. On the
contrary, it proposes to lend money to them in order that
they may begin the business for which they are organized,
i. e., to lend money for\home purposes. The savings and.
loan scheme of operation 'prevents these institutions from

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondents.

296 U.S.

becoming a source from which the Government can borrow money. They cannot receive deposits, § 5 (b), Home
Owners' Loan Act, 1933. The building up of cash reserves
is contrary to their scheme of operation. It is intended
that all of the moneys received by. them shall be promptly
loaned out on long term loans to serve the purpose for
which they were created.
They are given the power to invest in government
securities, not for the purpose of aiding the Government,
but for the purpose of aiding the institutions in safely
carrying on their functions.
We submit that Congress cannot assume the power to
create corporations by the simple expedient of authorizing them to invest in government bonds.
The power in Congress to make all laws "necessary and
proper," Art. I, § 8, cl. 18, obviously is not a grant of
any new aid independent power.
The cases .which hold that Congress has the power to
incorporate banks do not sustain the petitioners. The
ratio decidendi of these bank cases completely negatives
the contention that Congress has the power to- create
corporate instrumentalities for the purpose of aiding
private citizens in acquiring homes.
The argument that Congress has the power directly to
use public moneys for the purpose of aiding agriculture,
and therefore may create corporate instrumentalities to
the same end, was ably put in Smith v. Kansas City
Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S. 180. The Court, however,
did not, and could not, place its decision upon thatground.
The stimulation of home ownership is no more a function
of the Federal Government than the stimulation of agricultural development. The jurisdiction of both subject
matters is vested exclusively in the several States.
If Congress has the power to incorporate by the simple
expedient of reciting the formula contained i'n §_5 (k), in

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

325

Amicus Curiae.

spite of the obvious purpose of the corporations appearing
on the face of the law which created them, then there is
no limit to the congressional power. It can organize and
exercise exclusive jurisdiction over every conceivable type
of corporation. It can strip the States of one of their
principal sources of revenue. It can virtually exhaust
the reserved powers vested in the States.
"Congress cannot, under the pretext of executing delegated power, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects
not intrusted to the Federal Government." Linder v.
United States, 268 U. S. 5, 17.
Assuming that Congress has the power to create and
regulate building and loan associations, such power has
been improperly delegated to the Federal Home Loan
Banoc Board.
By leave of Court, Solicitor General Reed and Assistant
Solicitor General Bell filed a brief on behalf of the United
States, as arnicus curiae, in support of the contentions of
petitioners.
Section 5 (i) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933,
as its language and its legislative history plainly show,
should be construed as authorizing a member of a federal
home loan bank to convert itself into a federal savings
and loan association without the consent of the State
under whose laws it is organized. In other statutes Congress has used explicit language when it intended tl'at
conversion into a federal corporation should take place in
compliance with state law, and the absence of such language in § 5 (i) shows that Congress did not intend to
require such compliance or the consent of the State. The
decision of this Court in Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673, construing a similar provision in the National 'Bank Act of
1864, establishes that this construcion is correct.
Section 5 (i) is a lawful exercise of the fiscal powers of
Congress. In the exercise of those powers Congress can

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Amicus Curiae.

296 U.S.

provide for a national credit and currency system and it
can strengthen and preserve federal fiscal institutions established for that purpose. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat 316; Osborn v. The Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Farmers
& Mechanics Nat. Bank v. Dearing,91 U. S. 29; Smith v.
Kansas City Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S. 180. The federal
home loan banks and the federal savings and loan associations were created by Congress to strengthen the national currency and credit system and to protect established federal fiscal institutions. Furthermore, Congress
has power to create appropriate corporate agencies to aid
in the execution of its fiscal powers, and federal savings
and loan associations are such agencies. They are authorizedto act as fiscal agencies of the Government, and are
closely related to the federal home loan banks, which
also act as such agencies and as depositaries of public
money. Moreover the functions of the federal savings and
loan associations are similar to those of the Federal Land
Banks, whose constitutionality was established by the
decision of this Court in Smith v. Kansas City Title &
Trust Co., 255 U. S.180.
The creation of federal savings and loan associations is
a lawful exercise of the power of Congress to levy taxes and
spend the proceeds to promote the general welfare of the
United States, and the power to spend funds for that purpose carries with it the power to organize appropriate
corporate agencies to aid in its execution.
Section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 does
not improperly delegate legislative power to the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board merely because it does not prescribe a detailed plan of operation for federal savings and
loan associations.
The conversion of petitioners into federal savings and
loan associations does not violate the constitutional rights
of Wisconsin. No creditors or stockholders of petitioners

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

327

Opinion of the Court.

are parties to these proceedings or object to the conversion of petitioners, and Wisconsin has no standing to enforce the rights of creditors and stockholders. The rights
claimed by respondents for Wisconsin are political and
not proprietary in character. The Fifth Amendment, on
which respondents appar(.fntly rely, does not protect
purely political rights, nor will the federal courts otherwise protect such rights, unless their invasion will destroy
or impair a proprietary interest of the State. Finally,
the political rights of Wisconsin are not violated by the
conversion of petitioners. The constitutional authority
of Congress to create federal savings and loan associations
without the consent of the State carries with it the power
to convert a Wisconsin corporation into a federal savingsand loan association without the consent of the State,
because the power to convert is co-extensive with the
power to create. Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S.673.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The controversy in each of these causes is one as to the
meaning and validity of an Act of Congress whereby
building and loan associations organized under the laws
of a state may be converted into Federal Savings & Loan
Associations upon the vote of a majority of the shareholders present at a meeting legally convened.
In Number 55, an original suit was brought in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin by the respondents, constituting the Banking Commission of that state, against the
Hopkins Federal Savings & Loan Association, formerly
the Hopkins Street Building & Loan Associatiun. its officers and directors. The complaint prayed for a decree
annulling the proceedings whereby the state association
had attempted to convert itself into a federal one, and
compelling the directors and officers to continue the busi-

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

ness in accordance with Wisconsin law or else to wind it
up. The state court granted the decree upon grounds to
be considered later. 217 Wis. 179; 257 N. W. 684.
In Numbers 56 and 57, suits were brought by Wisconsin corporations, the Reliance Building and Loan Association (plaintiff in Number 56) and the Northern Building and Loan Association (plaintiff in Number 57) to restrain the Ban dng Commission and the supervisor of
building and lo n associations from interfering with the
plaintiffs in the ittempt to convert themselves into federal corporations. Decrees of the trial court in favor of
the plaintiffs were reversed by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin with directions to enter judgment in favor of the
Commission. 217 Wis. 179; 257 N. W. 684.
Building and loan associations organized in Wisconsin
are subject to strict supervision by the administrative
agencies.of the state both in the course of doing business
and in that of liquidation. They are quasi-public corporations, chartered to encourage thrift and promote the
ownership of homes, with powers and immunities peculiarly-their own. See Wisconsin Statutes, 1933, Chap. 215,
" 215.01 et seq; cf. Louisville Gas & Electric Co. v. Coleman, 277 U. S. 32, 40; United States v. Cambridge Loan
& Building Co., 278 U. S. 55, 57.1 They may loan their
moneys to members only. Wisconsin Statutes, 1933,
§ 215.07 (1). They must submit many of their proposed
investments for the approval of the Commissioner of
Bibb County Loan Assn. v. Richards, 21 Ga. 592, 595, 596;
First National Bank v. County of Dawson, 66 Mont. 321, 335; 213
Pac. 1097; Washington Investment Assn. v. Stanley, 38 Oregon 319,
330, 331; 63 Pac. 489; Union Savings & Investment Co. v. Salt Lake
County, 44 Utah 397, 404, 405; 140 Pac. 221; Becket v. Uniontown
Building & Loan Assn., 88 Pa. 211, 216; Miller v. Prudential Banking & Trust Co., 63 W. Va. 107, 110; 59 S. E. 977; Mutual Building
& Savings Assn. v. Wilkinson, 8 F. (2d) 183; 13 F. (2d) 997,.998.
1Cf.

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

329

Opinion of the Court.

Banking. § 215.07. (6) (7) (8). They must conform to
precise restrictions as to the quality of mortgages accepted
as security for loans. § 215.15;2 cf. § 215.01 (10) (11).
At the close of every year they must submit to the Commissioner a report of their condition (§ 215.31); and at all
times they shall be subject to his control and supervision.
§ 215.31. If their business has been conducted in a manner contrary to law, or if their financial condition appears
to be unsound, the Commissioner may take charge of the
business and liquidate the assets. § 215.33. In recognition of their quasi-public functions they are given an exemption from income taxes payable by corporations generally. § 71.05 (d). Cf. United States v. Cambridge
Loan & Bldg. Co., supra. The statute contains provisions
governing the consolidation of such associations and their
voluntary dissolution. Corporations formed thereunder
may consolidate with other building and loan associations
located in the same county, but only with the consent of
the Commissioner of Banking and that of two-thirds of
the outstanding shares as well as the consent of a majority of the directors. § 215.335. A vote of approval by
two-thirds of the outstanding shares is necessary also for
voluntary dissolution. § 215.36 (1). With the consent
of the Commissioner an association formed under the act
may become a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank,
or a borrower therefi'om. § 215.07 (7) (8). Membership
in such a bank grows out of a subscription to its shares,
and has no effect upon the corporate life of the subscribing member. On the other hand, there is nothing in the
statutes of Wisconsin whereby building and loan associations chartered in that state may be transmuted into
associations chartered by the federal government.
'These restrictions should be compared with those imposed by the
Home Owners Loan Act upon federal associations organized for kindred purposes. 48 Stat. 128, 132; 12 U. S. C. § 1464 (c).

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

The petitioners insist that without the consent of Wisconsin the transmutation from a state into a federal association has become possible now by virtue of an Act of
Congress. The Act relied upon for that purpose is § 5
of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (48 Stat. 128,
132), as amended in April; 1934 (48 Stat. 643, 645, 646),
and again in May, 1935 (49 Stat. 297), 12 U. S. C. § 1464.
By subdivision (a) of that section the Federal Home
Loan Board is empowered to issue charters for the creation of Federal Savings and Loan Associations "in which
people may invest their funds and in order to provide for
the financing of homes." By subdivision (e), "no charter shall be granted except to persons of good character
and responsibility," nor unless in the judgment of the
Board the institution is likely to be successful and is necessary for the well being of the community to be served.
By other subdivisions (b, c, d, f, g, h, j and k) the powers
and duties of the associations are defined. Subdivision
(i), the one that concerns us specially, permits state associations to be converted into federal ones. As amended
in April, 1934, its provisions are as follows:
"(i) Any member of a Federal Home Loan Bank may
convert itself into a Federal Savings and Loan Association under this Act upon a vote of 51 per centum or
more of the votes cast at a legal meeting called to consider
such action; but such conversion shall be subject to such
rules and regulations as the Board may prescribe, and
thereafter the converted association shall be entitled to
all the benefits of this section and shall be subject to
examination and regulation to the same extent as other
associations incorporated pursuant to this Act." 3
The following is the text of this subdivision before the date of the
amendment:
"Any member of a Federal Home Loan Bank may convert itself
into a Federal Savings and Loan Association under this Act upon a
vote of its stockholders as provided by the law under which it oper-

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

331

Opinion of the Court.

The exchange of a state for a federal charter may be
made under this section by any member of a Federal
Home Loan Bank. To ascertain the limits of that membership we turn to the "Federal Home Loan Bank Act"
of 1932 as amended from time to time. 47 Stat. 725; 48
Stat. 128, 643, 1246; 12 U. S. C. c. 11; cf. 49 Stat. 297.
We learn from that act that the term "member" means
any institution which has subscribed for the stock of a
Federal Home Loan Bank, § 2 (4), and that "any building and loan association, savings and loan association,
co6perative bank, homestead association, insurance company or savings bank," shall be eligible to become a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank, or a nonmember borrower from such a bank, upon compliance with conditions
not important at this time. §§ 4 and 5.
Each of the three building and loan associations, the
petitioners before us, was a member in good standing of
the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, Illinois. After
application in proper form each received from the Board
permission to convert itself into a federal association under § 5 (i) of the Federal Home Loan Act. Each convened a meeting of its shareholders to consider such action and approve or disapprove it. At the meeting of
the Hopkins Street Building and Loan Association, held
on May 31, 1934, 5,973 shares were represented in person
or by proxy. A resolution authorizing the change was
unanimously adopted. Shares outstanding and not represented numbered 976. This association (under the name
of Hopkins Federal Savings & Loan Association) has received a charter from the Board, under which it will act
unless restrained. At the meeting of Reliance Building
ates; but such conversion shall be subject to such rules and regulations as the Board may prescribe, and thereafter the converted association shall be entitled to all the benefits of this section and shall be
subject to examination and regulation to the same extent as other
associations incorporated pursuant to this Act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

& Loan Association, held August 20, 1934, 7,286 shares
were voted in favor of the change and 66 against it;
shares outstanding and not represented numbered 3,533.
At the meeting of Northern Building and Loan Association, held August 14, 1934, 23,291 shares were voted in
favor of the change and 11 against it; shares outstanding
and not represented numbered 12,006.
The State of Wisconsin, acting through its Banking
Commission, came forward at this point to check the
process of conversion. It took the position (1) that § 5
(i) of the Home Owners' Loan Act was subject to an
implied condition whereby no_ conversion was to be permitted in contravention of local laws; and (2) that if
this reading of the section were to be rejected as erroneous, the statute to that extent was void under the Tenth
Amendment as an unconstitutional trespass upon the
powers of the states. Other provisions of the Constitution, believed not to be material, were invoked at the
same time.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin placed its decision
upon the first of these positions to the exclusion of the
other. It read the federal statute as subject to the implied condition contended for by the state officials. It
did this to avoid embarrassing and doubtful questions of
constitutional power, which it described without deciding.
To determine the meaning and, if need be, the validity of
an important federal statute, writs of certiorari were
granted by this court.' 295 U. S. 721.
First: Congress did not mean that the conversion from
state associations into federal ones should be conditioned
upon the consent of the state or compliance with its laws.
'At the iame time we dismissed the appeals that had been taken
from The judgments, the remedy of appeal being held to be inappropriate for the reason that the validity of the statute was untouched
by the decision brought here for review. § 237 (a), Judicial Code;
43 Stat. 936, 937.

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

333

Opinion of the Court.

Under § 5 (i) as enacted in 1933, the argument could
have been made with force that the laws of the state
must be obeyed in the process of conversion. The provision then was, as we have already pointed out, that the
association was to act " upon a vote of its stockholders
as provided by the law under which it operates." But
Congress would not leave it so. By an amendment of the
statute, approved April 27, 1934, there was substituted a
provision that conversion would be effective "upon a
vote of 51 per centum or more of the votes cast at a legal
meetinkcalled to consider such action." Thus Congress
erected a standard of its own, which was to be uniform
in all the states irrespective of the local laws. A bare
majority of the shares voted at a meeting was to be
enough to give authority for fundamental changes of
policy and power, no matter how many other shares were
unrepresented at the meeting. We are unable to accede
to the suggestion of the court below that the percentage
was meant to be a minimum which the local laws might
raise, though they were powerless to reduce it. Nothing
in the wording of the statute gives support to that construction. On the contrary, comparison of the act as
amended with the act as first adopted impels to the conclusion that Congress had in mind to take possession of
the field to the exclusion of other occupants. Thereafter
the procedure for conversion and the power to convert
were fo be governed by a uniform rule, irrespective of
repugnant limitations prevailing in the states.
Whatever doubt might exist as to the correctness of
this view disappears when other and cognate statutes are
subjected to our scrutiny.
The National Banking Act of 1864 (13 Stat. 99, 112,
113) gave permission to the banks incorporated in the
states to become national associations upon the consent
of the owners of two thirds of the capital stock, the consent to be evidenced by an appropriate certificate. This

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

court in Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673, decided in 1876, refused to read into the act a condition that the state as
well as the stockholders must consent to the conversion,
though no question of constitutional power was necessary
to the decision, as will be shown later on. The statute as
thus interpreted remained substantially unchanged until
1913, when the percentage was reduced from two thirds
to a majority, with the addition of a proviso "that said
conversion shall not be in contravention of the state
law." R. S. § 5154; 38 Stat. 258; 12 U. S. C. § 35. Cf.
12 U. S. C. § 342; Ex parte Worcester National Bank,
279 U. S. 347.5
Again, in the Act of March 4, 1923, whereby agricultural or livestock .financing corporations organized in the
states were permitted to convert themselves into National
Agricultural Credit Corporations, the permission was
coupled with a similar proviso. 42 Stat. 1454, 1469; 12
U. S. C. § 1281.
Congress had no difficulty in finding fit and simple
phrases for the expression of its will when power was to
be conditioned upon the approval of the states. Cf. Westfall v. United States, 274 U. S. 256, 259. The form chosen
by its draftsman for the statute here involved takes on a
new significance when read in the revealing light of the
forms that were rejected.
We think the light is so strong as to flood whatever
places in the statute might otherwise be dark. Courts
have 'striven mightily at times to canalize construction
along the path of safety. Moore Ice Cream Co. v. Rose,
289 U. S. 373, 379. When a statute is reasonably susceptible of two interpretations, they have preferred the
meaning that preserves to the meaning that destroys.
Complementary statutes permitting the conversion are common in
the states. See, e. g., Mich. Comp. Laws, 1929, § 11957; N. Y.. Banking Law (MeKinney's Consol. Laws) § 137; Purdon's Penna. Stats.
Title 7, c. 14; Wis. Stats. 1933, § 221.21.

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

335

Opinion of the Court,

United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366,
407; Knights Templars' Indemnity Co. v..Jarman, 187
U. S. 197, 205; cf. Illinois Central R. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 245 U. S. 493, 510; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S.
501, 533. "But avoidance of a difficulty will not be
pressed to the point of disingenuous evasion." Moore Icc
Cream Co. v. Rose, supra. "Here the intention of the
Congress is revealed too distinctly to permit us to ignore
it because of mere misgivings as to power." Ibid. The
problem must be faced and answered.
Second: The Home Owners' Loan Act, to the extent
that it permits the conversion of state associations into
federal ones in contravention of the laws of the place of
their creation, is an unconstitutional encroachment upon
the reserved powers of the states. United States Constitution, Amendment X.
If § 5 (i) may be upheld when state laws are inconsistent, any savings bank or insurance company as well
as any building and loan association, may be converted
into a savings and loan association with a charter from
the central government, provided only that 51 per cent
of the shares represented at a meeting vote approval of
the change. Indeed, as counsel for the petitioners insisted at our bar, the power of transformation, if it is
adequate in such conditions, is not confined to building
and loan associations or savings banks or insurance companies or to members of the Home Loan, Bank, except
by the adventitious features of this particular enactment.
It extends in that view to moneyed corporations generally
and even to other corporations, if Congress chooses to
convert them into creatures of the federal government.
Compulsion, by hypothesis, being lawful, the percentage
of assenting shares voted in a given instance or exacted
by a given statute assumes the aspect of an accident.
Fifty-one per cent is the minimum required here.
Another act may reduce the minimum to ten per cent or

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

even one, or dispense with approval altogether. If nonassenting shareholders or creditors were parties to these
suits the question would be urgent whether property interests may be so transformed consistently with the restraints of the Fifth Amendment. The Wisconsin courts
hold that the protest of a single shareholder will check
"a fundamental and radical change" in the powers and
purposes of the corporation, though the change be
brought about by voluntary amendment. See opinion of
the court below; also Martin Orchard Co. v. Fruit Growers Canning Co., 203 Wis. 97; 233 N. W. 603; Huber v.
Martin, 127 Wis. 412; 105 N. W. 1031. Shareholders and
creditors being absent, we have instead the question
whether consistently with the Tenth Amendment the
change may be made under license of the central government against the protest of the state.
For the purposes of these cases we find it needless to
consider whether Congress has the power to create building and loan associations and thereupon to invest them
with corporate capacity. As to that we do not indicate
an opinion either one way or the other. The critical
question here is something very different. The critical
question is whether along with such a power there goes
the power also to put an end to corporations created by
the states and turn them into different corporations
created by the nation.
A corporation is a juristic person organized by government to accomplish certain ends, which may be public or
quasi-public, though for other purposes of classification
the corporation is described as private. Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 668-672. Cf. the statutes and decisions collected by Brandeis, J. in Liggett Co.
v. Lee, 288 U. S. 517, 548, et seq. This is true of building
and loan associations in Wisconsin and in other states.
They have been given corporate capacity in the belief

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

337

Opinion of the Court.

that their creation will advance the common weal. The
state, which brings them into being, has an interest in
preserving their existence, for only thus can they attain
the ends of their creation. They are more than business
corporations. They have been organized and nurtured
as quasi-public instruments. Louisville Gas & Electric
Co. v. Coleman, supra. They may not divest themselves
of a franchise when once it is accepted if the local statutes
or decisions command them to retain it. See opinion of
the court below, and cf. Thomas v. RailroadCo., 101 U. S.
71; Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139
U. S. 24. How they shall be formed, how maintained
and supervised, and how and when dissolved, are matters
of governmental policy, which it would be an intrusion
for another government to regulate by statute or decision,
except when reasonably necessary for the fair and effective exercise of some other and cognate power explicitly
conferred.
Wisconsin, planning these agencies in furtherance of
the common good and purposing to preserve them that
the good may not be lost, is now informed by the Congress, speaking through a statute, that the purpose and
the plan shall be thwarted and destroyed. By the law
of the state, associations such as these may be dissolved
in ways and for causes carefully defined, in which event
the assets shall be converted into money and applied, so
far as adequate, to the payment of the creditors. By the
challenged Act of Congress, the same associations are dissolved in other ways and for other causes, and from being
creatures of the state become creatures of the nation. In
this there is an invasion of the sovereignty or quasi-sovereignty of Wisconsin and an impairment of its public
policy, which the state is privileged to redress as a suitor
in the courts so long as the Tenth Amendment preserves
a field of autonomy against federal encroachment.
33682-36---22

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

We are not concerned at this time with the applicable
rule in situations where the central government is at liberty (as it is under the commerce clause when such a
purpose is disclosed) to exercise a power that is exclusive
as well as paramount. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352, 399, 400; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533; Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456,
485; Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346, 350. That is not
the situation here. No one would say with reference to
the business conducted by these petitioners that Congress
could prohibit the formation or continuance of such associations by the states, whatever may be its power to charter them itself. So also we are not concerned with the rule
to be applied where the business of an association under
charter from a state is conducted in such a way as to be a
menace or obstruction to the legitimate activities of its
federal competitors. Cf. Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 197, 344, 345, 346; Houston, E.
& TV. T. Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, 351;
New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, 600, 601. For
anything here shown, the two classes of associations, federal and state, may continue to dwell together in harmony and order. A concession of this possibility is indeed implicit in the statute, for conversion is not mandatory, but dependent upon the choice of a majority of
the voters. The power of Congress in the premises, if
there is any, being not exclusive, but at most concurrent,
and the untrammeled coexistence of federal and state associations being a conceded possibility, we are constrained
to the holding that there has been an illegitimate encroachment by the government of the nation upon a domain of activity set apart by the Constitution as the
province of the states. Cf. Linder v. United States, 268
U. S. 5, 17; United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41, 45. The
destruction of associations established by a state is not an

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

339

Opinion of the Court.

exercise of power reasonably necessary for the maintenance by the central government of other associations
created by itself in furtherance of kindred ends.6
Given the encroachment, the standing of the state to
seek redress as suitor is not to be gainsaid, unless protest
without action is the only method of resistance. Analogy
combines with reason in telling us that this is not the law.
By writs of quo warranto as well as through other remedial devices the state has been accustomed to keep its
juristic creatures within the limits of the charfers that
define the purpose of their being. People v. Ballard, 104
N. Y. 269; 32 N. E. 54; Attorney General v. Utica Insurance Co., 2 Johns. Ch. 371. The practice is so inveterate that it may be ranked as rudimentary. Indeed,
there are mapiy situations where no one other than the
state will be held to be aggrieved, with the result that
capacity to sue is either there or nowhere. Kerfoot v.
Farmers' & Merchants' Bank, 218 U. S. 281, 286, 287;
National Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621, 629. As
against the protest of the state, asserting its public policy
or the prohibition of a statute, no assent by shareholders,
however general or explicit, will be permitted to prevail.
McCandless v. Furlaud,ante, p. 161. It is of no moment
in such conditions that the interest of the state in repelling the encroachment is other than pecuniary. Missouri
v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416, 431. At least there is "a
matter of grave public concern in which the state as the
representative of the public has an interest apart from
6

The court has upheld the validity of a statute whereby national

banks are given the same power as state banks to act as executors or
administrators, to the end that the two classes of banks may compete
on equal terms. First National Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S.
416. This is far from a holding that the function of acting as executors and administrators may be withdrawn from the state banks and
lodged by the Congress in the national banks alone.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

that of the individuals affected." Pennsylvania v. West
Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, 591, 592. Cf. North Dakota v.
Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365, 374; New York v. New Jersey,
256 U. S. 296, 301, 302; Heckman v. United States, 224
U. S. 413, 439, 440; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125,
141, 142; s. c. 206 U. S. 46,99; Georgiav. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 584,
586; United States v. Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315,
357, 367. In its capacity of quasi-sovereign, the state
repulses an assault upon the quasi-public institutions
that are the product and embodiment of its statutes and
its policy. Finding them about to deviate from the law
of their creation, it is met by the excuse that everything
done or purposed is permitted by an Act of Congress.
The excuse is inadequate unless the power to give
absolution for overstepping such restrictions has
been surrendered by the state to the Government at
Washington.
The standing of Wisconsin to resist a trespass on its
powers is confirmed if we view the subject from another
angle of approach. In the creation of corporations of this
quasi-public order and in keeping them thereafter within
the limits of their charters, the state is parens patriae,
acting in a spirit of benevolence for the welfare of its
citizens. Shareholders and creditors have assumed a relation to the business in the belief that the assets will be
protected by all the power of the government against use
for other ends than those stated in the charter. Aside
from the direct interest of the state in the preservation of
agencies established for the common good, there is thus the
duty of the parens patriae to keep faith with those who
have put their trust in the parental power. True, most
of the shareholders in the cases now before us assented
to the change. Even so, an important minority were not
represented at the meetings, and their approval is not

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

341

Opinion of the Court.

shown. Creditors other than shareholders have not been
heard from at all. To these non-vocal classes the parens
owes a duty which it is free to vindicate by suit.' Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349, 355, 356;
Kansas v. Colorado, supra; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper
Co., supra; New York v. New Jersey, supra; Pennsylvania v. West Virginia,supra.
The ruling in Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447,
is nothing to the contrary, though it is made a cornerstone of the argument in favor of the statute. There the
state of Massachusetts attempted to enjoin the enforcement of an Act of Congress appropriating money to be
used in co~peration with the states to reduce maternal and
infant mortality. The ruling was that it was no part
of the duty or power of a state to enforce the rights of
its citizens in respect of their relations to the Federal
Government. Cf. Floridav. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12. Here,
on the contrary, the state becomes a suitor to protect the
interests of its citizens against the unlawful acts of corporations created by the state itself.
Much reliance is placed in behalf of the petitioners
upon the decision of this court in Casey v. Galli, supra.
The Bank of New Orleans, a Louisiana corporation, became a national banking association by vote of its stockholders. The state did not oppose the conversion, though
it was not shown to have consented. The reorganized
7The fact is not ignored, but is thought to be unimportant, that
the vote in favor of conversion at two of the three meetings, being
more than two thirds of the outstanding shares of stock, would have
been sufficient to authorize a voluntary dissolution at a meeting duly
called to consider such action. The same shareholders who voted tc
go on with the business under a charter from the Federal Government
might have opposed dissolution as inexpedient or wasteful. Moreover, liquidation would then have followed under the supervision of
the state.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opipion of the Court.

296 U.S.

corporation did business for more than two years, when
it failed and a receiver was appointed by the Comptroller
of the Currency. In an action by the receiver againsf a
shareholder to enforce the individual liability under the
provisions of the federal statute, the defendant filed three
pleas in abatement, to which the plaintiff demurred. The
pleas were as follows: (1) Nul tiel corporation; (2) that
there was not then, nor when the plaintiff became receiver of the New Orleans Banking Association, any such
corporation in existence, because the Bank of New Orleans had no power under its charter, nor authority otherwise from the State of Louisiana, to change its organization to that of a national banking association under the
laws of the United States; and (3) that there had been
a failure to comply with the statutory conditions as to
the method of conversion if conversion was permissible.
The first plea was abandoned, and the third is without
bearing upon the causes now before us. The court sustained the demurrer to the second plea upon two independent grounds, which will be stated inversely to the
order in which they appear in the opinion. Thus stated
they are these: (a) The defendant was estopped from contesting the validity of the change after standing by for
over two years without making his objection known; and
(b) apart from any estoppel, "no authority from the
State was necessary to enable the bank so to change its
organization." p. 678. "The act is silent as to any assent or permission by the State. It was as competent for
Congress to authorize the transmutation as to create such
institutions originally." Ibid.
No question of constitutional power was in the case,
for nowhere in the record did the defendant invoke the
Tenth Amendment or the Fifth or any other provision
of the Federal Constitution. The substance of the plea
was this, that the change from one form of association to

HOPKINS SAVINGS ASSN. v. CLEARY.
315

343

Opinion of the Court.

another was to be condemned as ultra vires. The meaning of the statute was thus the pivot of the controversy.
The argument in the briefs was directed in the main to
the formal correctness of the pleadings, the validity of
the act being taken for granted. The assumption was one
that could hardly be avoided when the controversy was
viewed in the setting of the facts. Louisiana, like the
defendant shareholder, had apparently acquiesced in the
attempt of the central government to take over the state
banks. The time had gone by to vindicate her fnajesty.
What she might have done if she had been vigilant is a
question not before us. Distinctions may conceivably
exist between the power of the Congress in respect of
banks of issue and deposit and its power in respect of asso'ciations to encourage indutry and thrift. Whether that
be so or not, all that was said in Casey v. Galli as to the
condition of consent was unnecessary to the decision if it
was meant to do more than define the meaning of the
statute. We cannot accept it as determining the constitutional rights and privileges of a party not then before
the court, least of all when it appears that constitutional
rights and privileges were not invoked or argued.
Confining ourselves now to the precise and narrow
question presented upon the records here before us, we
hold that the conversion of petitioners from state into
federal associations is of no effect when voted against the
protest of Wisconsin. Beyond that we do not go. No
question is here as to the scope of the war power or of
the power of eminent domain or of the power to regulate
transactions affecting interstate or foreign commerce.
The effect of these, if they have any, upon the powers
reserved by the Constitution to the states or to the people
will be considered when the need arises.
The judgments are
Affirmed.

