UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
Syllabus.

280

tion, as was the case here, the issue must be resolved upon
the whole body of proof pro and con; 12 and if it permits
an inference either way upon the question of suicide, the
Deputy Commissioner and he alone is empowered to draw
the inference; his decision as to the weight of the evidence
may not be disturbed by the court. 3
For these reasons we are of opinion the Court of Appeals erred in holding that as the evidence on the issue
of accident or suicide was, in its judgment, evenly balanced, the presumption must tip the scales in favor of
accident. The only matter for decision was whether the
affirmative finding of suicide was supported by evidence.
It is clear that it was so supported and that the court
should therefore not have set aside the Deputy Commissioner's order.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 40., Argued November 14, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. An otherwise valid federal excise tax on the business of selling
liquor is not rendered invalid in the particular case by the fact
that the business is being conducted in violation of the state
law. P. 293.
2. A provision of the Revenue Act of 1926 imposes in addition to
the $25 excise tax laid on retail liquor dealers by R. S., § 3244,
as amended, a "special excise tax" of $1000 on such dealers
when they carry on the business contrary to local state or muni~ipal law, and provides fine and imprisonment for failure to patt
Held:
Tha

C,

13

- ubi supra, p. 346.
sell v. Benson, supra, 46; Voehl v. Indemnity Insurance Co.

288 U. S. 162, 166.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

(1) The provision, if regarded as part of the machinery for
enforcing the Eighteenth Amendment, fell automatically with the
repeal of that Amendment. P. 293.
(2) An exaction which in reality is a penalty cannot be converted into a tax by so naming it; its purpose and operation determine its character. P. 294.
(3) The additional exaction is not a tax, but a penalty for
violation of state law. P. 294.
(4) The effect of the exaction in question is, under the guise of
a taxing act, to usurp the police powers of the States. P. 296.
3. The United States may not impose penalties for infractions of
the criminal laws of a State by her own citizens. P. 296.
4. The Court has no occasion in this case to consider whether the
law in question is, bad for want of the uniformity of operation
required by Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution. P. 297.
75 F. (2d) 928, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

295 U. S. 730, to review a judgment revers-

ing a conviction and sentence under a criminal information.
Mr. Gordon Dean argued the cause, and Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Keenan, and
Messrs. James E. Ruffin, Mahlon D. Kiefer, and W. Marvin Smith filed a brief, for the United States.
Mr. William S. Pritchard,with whom Messrs. Richard
T. Rives and George D. Toole were on the brief,, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In November, 1934, an information was filed in the District Court for Northern Alabama charging that on October 8, 1934, at Birmingham, Alabama, the respondent
conducted the business of a retail dealer in malt liquor,
contrary to the laws of the State, without having paid
the special excise tax of $1,000 imposed by § 701 of the

UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
287

289

Opinion of the Court.

Revenue Act of 1926.1 A demurrer and a motion to
quash were overruled, a plea of not guilty was entered,
and a jury trial was waived. Pursuant to a stipulation
of facts, the court found that for the fiscal year July 1,
1934, to June 30, 1935, the respondent registered with the
Collector of Internal Revenue as a retail liquor dealer
and paid the tax of $25.00 imposed upon such dealers by
R. S. 3244, as amended; 2 on the date named in the information the respondent had a restaurant in Birmingham, where he conducted the business of a retail dealer in
malt liquors containing more than one-half of one per
cent. alcohol, which business was contrary to, the laws of
' "On an after July 1, 1926, there shall be levied, collected, and
paid annually, in lieu of the tax imposed by section 701 of the Revenue Act of 1924, a special excise tax of $1,000, in the case of every
person carrying on the business of a brewer, distiller, wholesale liquor
dealer, retail liquor dealer, wholesale dealer in malt liquor, retail dealer
in malt liquor, or manufacturer of stills, as defined in section 3244 as
amended and section 3247 of the Revised Statutes, in any State, Territory, or District of the United States contrary to the laws of such
State, Territory, or District, or in any place therein in which carrying
on such business is prohibited by local or municipal law. The payment of the tax imposed by this section shall not be held to exempt
any person from any penalty or punishment provided for by the laws
of any State, Territory, or District for carrying on such business in
such State, Territory, or District, or in any manner to authorize the
commencement or continuance of such business contrary to the laws
of such State, Territory, or District, or in places prohibited by local
or municipal law.
"Any person who carries on any business or occupation for which
a special tax is imposed by this section, without having paid such special tax, shall, besides being liable for the payment of such special
tax be subject to a penalty of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for not more than one year, or both." Revenue Act of 1926,
c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 95.
U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 1394. The act imposes special taxes as follows:
Brewers $100; manufacturers of stills $50, and $20 for each still or
worm; retail dealers in liquors, $25; wholesale liquor-dealers $100;
retail dealers in malt liquors $20; wholesale dealers in malt liquors $50.
33682-36-

19

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

the state and of the city; and had not paid the $1,000
tax. Respondent's motion for judgment was denied, that•
of the United States was granted, and the respondent
was sentenced. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the judgment' on the ground that the section became
inoperative upon the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment.
In its petition for certiorari the United States, though
admitting the absence of a conflicting decision by the Circuit Court of Appeals of any other circuit, called attention to diverse decisions in the district courts,4 to the
many other cases pending in which action is awaiting
authoritative settlement of the question presented herein,
to the large amount of money involved, and to the number of persons whose liability will remain uncertain until
the dispute is finally settled. The question thus assumes
the importance required by Rule 38 and the writ issued
accordingly.
In concluding that the law imposed a penalty in aid
of the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment, and
therefore fell with its repeal, the court relied upon the
legislative history and administrative interpretation of
§ 701, and also thought such a construction necessary to
avoid a serious question under Article I, § 8 of the Constitution as to the uniformity of operation of the Act
throughout the United States. The Government insists
-that the section was not a part of the machinery for enforcing the prohibition amendment, but a revenue measure levying an excise conformably to the Constitution.
75 F. (2d) 928.
CleveMnd v. Davis, 9 F. Supp. 337; Green v. Page, 9 F. Supp.
844; Brabham v. Cooper, 9 F. Supp. 904; Liberis v. Nee, 10 F. Supp.
366; Senate Club v. Viley, 12 F. Supp. 982; United States v. Arthover
(D. C. N. D. Tex., unreported); United- States v. Columbia Fruit
Products Co., 10 F. Supp. 873.

UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
287

Opinion of the Couft.

First: The Government attacks, and the respondent
supports, the conclusion of the court below that the section was adopted pursuant to the Eighteenth Amendment. We think little aid is to be had from the legislative history. On the one hand it is said that the substance of the section was originally embodied in the
Revenue Act of 1918, which became a law February 28,
1919; that while under consideration by Congress in the
autumn of 1918 the bill contained the section in question;
and that, when enacted, it was made effective as of January 1, 1919. As the Eighteenth Amendment was not proclaimed until January 9, 1919, effective January 9, 1920,
the argument is that the Act of 1918 was independent
revenue legislation and no section of it could have been
intended to enforce fundamental law which was to become operative long after the passage of the act. From
the fact that the provision for the additional tax of $1,000
was carried forward from the Act of 1918 through those
of 1921 and 1924 into that of 1926,' the conclusion is
drawn that the tax remained, as it was in the beginning,
a means of raising revenue, and that its purpose was not
altered by the existence of national prohibition when it
was readopted as § 701 of the ReVenue Act of 1926. Reference is also made to the fact that the section was
specifically repealed by the Revenue Act of 1935,6 and the
deduction is drawn that Congress thought it had no relation to the prohibition amendment.
On the other hand, the respondent urges that the proclamation of the Amendment prior to the passage of the
Act of 1918 made prohibition a certainty; that the tax of
$1,000 laid upon violators of state liquor laws, in addition
r R. A. 1918, c. 18, §§ 1001 (12), 1005, 40 Stat. 1057, 1128, 1129;
R. A. 1921, c. 136, §§ 1001, 1004, 42 Stat. 227, 296, 298; R. A. 1924,
c. 234, §§ 701, 704, 43 Stat. 253, 327, 328.
'Act of August 30, 1935, c. 829, 49 Stat. 1014.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

to the graded excises on various forms of the liquor business prescribed by R. S. 3244, and the retention of the
$1,000 tax in the 1926 act, which discarded the many
existing excises on other businesses, evince a purpose to
prohibit rather than to tax liquor traffic violative of state

laws.
For reasons presently to be stated we find it unnecessary to decide whether the policy exhibited by the act at
its inception was independent of the Eighteenth Amendment or in subvention of it.
Second: The court below and the respondent regard the
administrative construction as persuasive that the section
is penal in character. After the adoption of the Revenue
Act of .1926, the .Treasury ruled that the so-called tax of
$1,000 was a penalty.- Upon repeal of the Eighteenth
Amendment the position was reversed; collectors were instructed to treat the item as a special tax; and the Department proceeded to prepare and distribute appropriate
revenue stamps to be issued in token of its payment.
We think the administrative practice has little bearing
'T. D. 3911 (July 30, 1926). "Subject of internal revenue and
prohibition taxes are (sic) divided into two classes:
1. Internal revenue taxes proper-that is taxes generally recognized
as such.
2. Those while in the nature of internal revenue taxes are necessarily held to be penalties, 'and must be collected through the United
States Courts.'
The following list is classed as taxes:
Retail dealers in malt liquors ................. $20.00
Wholesale dealers in malt liquors .............. 50.00
The following list is classed as penalties:
'Under section 701 of the Revenue Act of 1926. A special tax of
$1,000 on any person carrying on retail business of dealer in malt
liquors contrary to laws of state or territory.'
'Those designated as penalties. Such taxes will be carefully scheduled, summarized, and reported to the United States Attorney for
any action he may bring.

UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
287

Opinion of the Court.

upon the question of the nature of the exaction. During
the life of the Amendment collection was lawful whether
the demand was for a tax or a penalty; and the classification by the administrative officers was therefore immaterial. Congress then had power, in the enforcement
of prohibition, to impose penalties for violations of national prohibitory laws.'
Third: The repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment
renders it necessary to determine whether the exaction is
in fact a tax or a penalty. If it was laid to raise revenue
its validity is beyond question, notwithstanding the fact
that the conduct of the business taxed was in violation
of law. The United States has the power to levy excises
upon occupations,' and to classify them for this purpose;
and need look only to the fact of the exercise of the occupation or calling taxed, regardless of whether such exercise is permitted or prohibited by the laws of the United
States 10 or by those of a State." The burden of the tax
may be imposed alike on the just and the unjust. It'
would be strange if one carrying on a business the subject
of an excise should be able to excuse himself from payment by the plea that in carrying on the business he was
violating the law. The rule has always been otherwise.
The tax imposed by R. S. 32441 affords an apposite illustration. That act imposes an excise, varying in amount,
upon different forms of the liquor traffic. The respondent
Section 2 of the Eighteenth Amendment directed that the Congress
and the several States should have concurrent power of enforcement
by appropriate legislation. Compare National Prohibition Cases, 253
U. S.350; United States v. Lanza, 260 U. S.377; Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S.312.
*License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462.
'°United States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S.450, 462; United States v.
Staof], 260 U. S.477, 480; United States v. One Ford Coupe, 272
U. S.321, 327, 328.
. "License Tax Cases, supra.
"Supra, Note 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

paid the annual tax of $25 thereby required, despite the
fact that he was violating local law in prosecuting his
business. Undoubtedly this was a true tax for which he
was liable. The question is whether the exaction of
$1,000 in addition, by reason solely of his violation of
state law, is a tax or a penalty? If, as the court below
thought, § 701 was part of the enforcing machinery under
the Amendment, it automatically fell at the moment of
repeal."
But even though the statute was not adopted to penalize violations of the Amendment, it ceased to be enforceable at the date of repeal, if, in fact, its purpose is to
punish rather than to tax. The only color for the assertion of congressional power to ordain a penalty for violation of state liquor laws is the Eighteenth Amendment,
which gave to the federal government power to onforce
nation-wide prohibition. " That has been recalled; and
the case must be decided in the light of constitutional
principles which would have been applicable had the
Amendment never beei adopted. In the acts which have
carried the provision, the item is variously denominated
an occupation tax, an excise tax, and a special tax. If in
reality a penalty it cannot be converted into a tax by
so naming it,'" and we must ascribe to it the character disclosed by its purpose and operation, regardless of name."8
Disregarding the designation of the exaction, and viewing its substance and application, we hold that it is a
penalty for the violation of state law, and as such beyond
the limits of federal power.
" United States v. Chambers, 291 U.,S. 217.
" See Note 8, supra.
United States v. LaFranca,282 U. S. 568, 572.
' Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620, 625; United States
v. One Ford Coupe, supra, 328; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward,
282 U. S. 379, 387.

UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
287

295

Opinion of the Court.

Since 1878, the revised statutes have classified various
forms of the liquor traffic for the payment of excises
differing in amount according to the nature of the business.' 7 When the section exacting $1,000 additional from
all persons engaged in the traffic in violation of state law
was made a part of the revenue laws the amount of the
tax due by the respondent under R. S. 3244 was $25.00.
The so-called excise of $1,000 is forty times as great.
It is ten times as great as the annual tax under R. S. 3244
for wholesale liquor dealers and brewers, and fifty times
as great as that imposed upon dealers in malt liquors. If
the imposts under R. S. 3244 were fixed in amount in accordance with the importance of the business or supposed
ability to pay, the exaction in question is highly exorbitant. This fact points in the direction of a penalty
rather than a tax.
The condition of the imposition is the commission of
a crime. This, together with the amount of the tax, is
again significant of penal and prohibitory intent rather
than the gathering of revenue."' Where, in addition to
the normal and ordinary tax fixed by law, an additional
sum is to be collected by reason of conduct of the taxpayer
violative of the law, and this additional sum is grossly
disproportionate to the amount of the normal tax, the
conclusion must be that the purpose is to impose a penalty as a deterrent and punishment of unlawful conduct.'
We conclude that the indicia which the section exhibits
of an intent to prohibit and to punish violations of state
law as such are too strong to be disregarded, remove all
semblance of a revenue act, and stamp the sum it exacts
as a penalty. In this view the statute is a clear invasion
of the police power, inherent in the States, reserved from
"See Note 2, supra.
"S
Compare Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, 562.
" Helwtig v. Unitea States, 188 U. S. 605, 613.

OCTOBER TERM, 19.5.Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

the grant of powers to the federal government by the
Constitution.
We think the suggestion has never been made-certainly never entertained by this Court-that the United
States may impose cumulative penalties above and beyond those specified by State law for infractions of the
State's criminal code by its own citizens. The affirmation of such a proposition would obliterate the distinction
between the delegated powers of the federal government
and those reserved to the States and to their citizens.
The implications from a decision sustaining such an imposition would be startling. The concession of such a
power would open the door to unlimited regulation of
matters of state concern by federal authority. The regulation of the conduct of its own citizens belong to the
State, not to the United States. The right to impose
sanctions for violations of the State's laws inheres in the
body of its citizens speaking through their representatives. So far as the reservations of the Tenth Amendment were qualified by the adoption of the Eighteenth,
the qualification has been abolished.
Reference was made in the argument to decisions of
this Court holding that where the power to tax is conceded the motive for the exaction may not be questioned.
These are without relevance to the present case. The
point here is that the exaction is in no proper sense a
tax but a penalty imposed in addition to any the State
may decree for the violation of a state law. The cases
cited dealt with taxes concededly within the realm of the
federal power of taxation. They are not authority where,
as in the present instance, under the guise of a taxing
act the purpose is to usurp the police -powers of the
State."0
" Bailey v. Drexel FurnitureCo., 259 U. S. 20; Hill v. Wallace, 259
U. S. 44; Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5, 17.

UNITED STATES v. CONSTANTINE.
287

CARDOzO, J., dissenting.

In view of what has been said we do not cousider the
contention that the law is bad for want of the uniformity
of operation required by Article I, § 8, of the Constitution.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO,

dissenting.

I think the judgment should be reversed.
Congress may reasonably have believed that, in view of
the attendant risks, a business carried on illegally and furtively is likely to yield larger profits than one transacted
openly by law-abiding men. Not repression, but payment commensurate with the gains is thus the animating
motive. The gains in all likelihood will seldom be exhausted by a tax of $1,000. Congress may also have believed that the furtive character of the busiliess would
increase the difficulty and expense of the process of tax
collection. The Treasury should have reimbursement
for this drain on its resources. Apart from either of
these beliefs, Congress may have held the view that an
excise should be so distributed as to work a minimum of
hardship; that an illegal and furtive business, irrespective of the wrongdoing of its proprietor, is a breeder of
crimes and a refuge of criminals; and that in any wisely
ordered polity, in any sound system of taxation, men engaged in such a calling will be made to contribute more
heavily to the necessities of the Treasury than men engaged in a calling that is beneficent and lawful.
Thus viewed, the statute was not adopted to supplement
or sanction the police powers of the states or of their
political subdivisions. It was adopted, for anything disclosed upon its face or otherwise, as an. appropriate instrument of the fiscal policy of the nation. The business of
trading in things contraband is not the same as the business of trading in legitimate articles of commerce. Clas-

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CArmozo, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

sification by Congress according to the nature of the calling affected by a tax (State Board of Tax Commissioners
v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527) does not cease to be permissible
because the line of division between callings to be favored
and those to be reproved corresponds with a division between innocence and criminality under the statutes of a
state. Power is not abused because the shock of its impact is equitably distributed. The practice of medicine
by an unlicensed charlatan may be taxed on a different
basis from its practice by a licensed physician, irrespective of the fact that the charlatan is guilty of a crime.
The practice of law by a disbarred lawyer may be taxed
on a different basis from the practice of the same profession by a lawyer in good standing. With as much if
not greater reason a like distinction may be drawn between the licensed and the unlicensed traffic in intoxicating liquors. The underlying principle in all these
cases is as clear as it is just. A business that is a nuisance
(People v. Vandewater, 250 N. Y. 83; 164 N. E. 864),
like any other business that is socially undesirable, may
be taxed at a higher rate than one legitimate and useful.
Fox v. Standa:'d Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 100. By classifying in such a mode Congress is not punishing for a crime
against another government. It is not punishing at all.
It is laying an excise upon a business conducted in a particular way with notice to the taxpayer that if he embarks
upon that business he will be subjected to a special burden. What he pays, if he chooses to go on, is a tax and
not a penalty. Nigro v. United States, 276 U. S. 332,
353, 354. Cf. Life & Casualty Insurance Co. v. McCray,
291 U. S. 566, 574.
The judgment of the court, if I interpret the reasoning
aright, does not rest upon a ruling that Congress would
have gone beyond its power if the purpose that it professed was the purpose truly cherished. The judgment of
the court rests upon the ruling that another purpose, not

UNITED STATES v. KESTERSON.
287

Syllabus.

professed, may be read beneath the surface, and by the
purpose so imputed the statute is destroyed. Thus the
process of psychoanalysis has spread to unaccustomed
fields. There is a wise and ancient doctrine that a court
will not inquire into the motives of a legislative body or
assume them to be wrongful. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch
87, 130; Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, 44.
There is another wise and ancient doctrine that a court
will not adjudge the invalidity of a statute except for
manifest necessity. Every reasonable doubt must have
been explored and extinguished before moving to that
grave conclusion. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270.
The warning sounded by this court in the Sinking-Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718, has lost none of its significance.
"Every possible presumption is in favor of the validity
of a statute, and this continues until the contrary is shown
beyond a rational doubt. One branch of the government
cannot encroach on the domain of another without danger. The safety of our institutions depends in no small
degree on a strict observance of this salutary rule." I
cannot rid myself of the conviction that in the imputation
to the lawmakers of a purpose not professed, this salutary
rule of caution is now forgotten or neglected after all the
many protestations of its cogency and virtue.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in

this opinion.
UNITED STATES v. KESTERSON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
.TENTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 46. Submitted November 14, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.
Decided upon the authority of United States v. Constantine, ante,
p. 287.

76 F. (2d) 913, affirmed.

