SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.

113

Syllabus.

102

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR.
JUSTICE CARDOZO think that the judgment in each of these
cases should go for the Government on the ground succinctly stated in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, in Ogle v. Helvering, 77 F.
(2d) 338.

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 3.

Argued October 14, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. A corporation made liable in the first instance for a state tax on
its shares, which it may pay from its funds or collect from the
shareholders, but for which no lien is given either to the corporation or to the State, has a standing to contest the validity of the
tax. P. 118.
2. Much weight attaches to the characterization of a state tax, or
the interpretation of a state law, by the State Supreme Court, but
where a federal question is involved, this Court must determine for
itself the true nature of the tax by ascertaining its operation and
effect. P. 119.
3. A Pennsylvania tax, levied in the first instance on a trust company and in terms a tax upon its shares, was measured by so much
of the company's net assets as remained after deducting the
amounts represented by shares owned by it in Pennsylvania corporations which were already taxed or were exempted by the state
law. No corresponding deduction was made on account of nontaxable bonds of the United States and of its instrumentalities, or
on account of national bank shares already taxed as permitted by
R. S., § 5219. Held invalid as discriminating against the federal
securities and national bank shares. Pp. 119, 120.
4. Whether a federal question, urged to this Court on an appeal, from
the Supreme Court. of a State, was raised in that court, is itself a
federal question which this Court must decide by an examination
of the record7 P. 121.
315 Pa. 429; 173 Atl. 309,. reversed..
33682o_036.--..-

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL

296 U. S.

from a judgment affirming a judgment for a

tax entered by the Court of Common Pleas of Pennsylvania, 38 Dauphin Co. Rep. 22, upon an appeal from a
tax assessment.
Mr. John Robert Jones for appellant.
Mr. Manuel Kraus, Deputy Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Charles J. Margiotti, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant, a trust company organized under the
laws of Pennsylvania, challenges a statute of the State
as construed and applied in the assessment of a tax for
the year 1930, denominated a tax on shares. From a settlement made against the company by the Department
of Revenue an appeal was taken to the Court of Common
Pleas of Dauphin County, which, after trial without a
jury, entered judgment in favor of the Commonwealth.1
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed the judgment.2 The appellant's contention is that the Act, as so
construed and applied by the Department and the courts,
discriminates against United States Government bonds,
bonds of federal instrumentalities, and national bank
stocks, included in the appellant's assets. The appellee
replies that the tax is upon the shares of stock as such,
and not upon the assets which represent their value; that,
in fact, no tax. whatever, much less a discriminatory tax,
has been levied upon exempt assets of the company.
Prior to the year 1907 Pennsylvania trust companies
were liable for what is known as a capital stock tax,
levied upon the corporation. In the administration of
38 Dauphin County Reports, 22.
2315

Pa. 429; 173 At. 309.

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

115

Opinion of the Court.

that form of exaction certain securities, such as United
States bonds and national bank shares, are eliminated
from tax by deduction of their, value from the value of
the total assets of the corporations which own them. The
deduction of exempt securities is made to avoid double
taxation, the theory being that the shares issued by a
corporation and its capital stock are identical, so that
taxation of the one is taxation of the other."
On June 13, 1907, the General Assembly adopted an
act prescribing another method of taxatio4 in the case
of trust companies. Its pertinent provisions are copied
in the margin.' This statute in terms lays a tax upon
shares rather than upon corporate assets. The value 6f
each share is to be ascertained by adding tLe value of
capital stock paid in, surplus,: and undivided profits, and
dividing the total by the number of outstanding shares.
Thus the exaction is measured by the value of the cornpany's net assets. This involves the exclusion of corporate liabilities from the measure of value to which the rate
is to be applied.' By successive amendments it was di• Commonwealth v. Standard Oil Co., 101 Pa. 119, 145; Com-

monwealth v. Fall Brook Coal Co., 156 Pa. 488; 26 At. 1071;
Commonwealth v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 297 Pa. 308, 314; 147 Ati.
242;, Commonwealth v. Eastern Securities Co., 309 Pa. 44; 163 Atl.
157.
"Section 1. That from and after the passage of this act, every
company,. . . shall . . . make to the Auditor General a report in
writing . . . setting forth the full number of shares of the capital

stock subscribed for or issued by such company, and the actual value
thereof, which shall be ascertained as hereinafter provided; and thereupon it shall be the duty of the Auditor General to assess such shares
for taxation at the rate of five mills upon each dollar of the actual
value thereof, the actual value of each share of stock to be ascertained and fixed by adding -together the amount of capital stock paid
in, the surplus and undivided profits, and dividing this amount by the
number of shares. . .

."

[L. 1907, Act No. 512, p. 640.]

5Commonwealth v. Union Trust Co., 237 Pa. 353, 355, 356; 85
Atl. 461.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

rected that the value of each share of stock should be ascertained by adding together so much of the amount of
capital stock paid in, surplus, and undivided profits as is
not invested in the shares of stock of corporations liable
to pay to the Commonwealth a capital stock tax or tax
on shares, or relieved from the payment of capital stock
tax or tax on shares, and dividing the sum by the number
of outstanding shares. 0 These amendments were combined
with the original act, in a single statute of April 25, 1929.'
Obviously, the theory of the amendments was that as
trust companies, so long as they had been liable for capital
stock tax, had been exempted from payment of tax reckoned upon assets which had already paid a tax or were
exempt from tax,-that is, the stock of corporations of
Pennsylvania which had paid a capital stock tax or whose
shares had been taxed or had been exempted from tax,it was proper, in levying a tax upon the shares of trust
companies reckoned upon the net assets of those companies, to exempt from such net assets so much thereof as
represented shares of corporations which had already paid
a tax or, under the policy of the Commonwealth, had been
exempted.
The impost as laid by the Act of 1907 was a true tax on
shares and not a tax upon the assets of trust companies.
Such an exaction is not a tax upon United States securities owned by the corporation whose shares are taxed or
upon securities exempt from taxation because issued by
instrumentalities of the Federal Government.8
OAct of July 11, 1923, P. L. 1071-72. Act of May 7, 1927, P. L.
853, 855.
7 P. L. 673. The Act of April 9, 1929, P. L. 343, §§ 807 and 1705
(the so-called Fiscal Code), did not alter the substance of the law
but merely affected the executive agencies which were to administer it.
8 Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; Cleveland Trust Co. v. Lander, 184 U. S. 111; Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather,263
U. S. 103.

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

117

Opinion of the Court.

It will be observed that by the amendments to the Act
of 1907 the measure of the tax is not in any sense the
value of the shares as such, but a value reflected by so
much of the net assets as is not represented by shares
of Pennsylvania corporations already taxed or exempt
from tax. In the administration of the act as amended
the procedure which has been followed and approved'
is first to deduct the liabilities from the total assets, thus
arriving at the net assets. The theory has been that exempt shares owned by the trust company mist be shown
to have been actually purchased out of capital stock or
surplus in order to obtain a deduction of their full Value
from the gross assets. If the company is unable to demonstrate that they were purchased in that manner, then
a proportional method of deduction is adopted. This is
to apply to the taxed value of all such exempt securities
a fraction the numerator of which is the net assets and
the denominator the gross assets. The result of applying this fraction to the taxed value of exempt shares is
said to give the proportion of those exempt shares attributable to capital, surplus, and undivided profits, and
the quotient is accordingly deducted from the value of
the net assets to obtain the measure of the tax on all
the shares, and this, divided by the number of outstanding shares, gives the measure of the tax for each share.
In the instant case the trust company held amongst its
assets shares of Pennsylvania corporations, exempt from
tax, of the value of $135,787. It also held shares of the
Philadelphia National Bank of the value of $20,202.
These were found by the Department of Revenue to have
been taxed at a total taxable value of $71,373. Applying
the fractional formula mentioned, it was found that
$8,886 of their taxable value should be attributed to capital, surplus and undivided profits, and deducted from the
9 Commonwealth v. Hazelwood Savings & Trust Co., 271 Pa. 375;
114 Ati. 368.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

amount of the net assets. As the net assets had been
ascertained to be $467,714 the deduction brought this
figure down to $458,028, to which the rate of tax of five
mills was applied.
It should be stated that under the Act the corporation
is required to make a report as the basis for the calculation of the tax, and, upon that report, the Department of
Revenue settles the tax which is assessed against the corporation. The trust company, and not the stockholders,
is liable in the first instance for the tax. Though given
the right to pay the tax from its funds or to collect the
amount from its stockholders, neither the company nor
the Commonwealth is given any lien upon the stock for
the amount of the tax. As the obligation to pay the Commonwealth is that of the company, its interest and'its
right to contest are beyond question.
In specifications of objection filed with its appeal from
the tax settlement in the Court of Common Pleas, the
trust company insisted that all exempt shares (including
the shares of the Philadelphia National Bank) should be
deducted from the gross assets in full. This would exempt
their full value rather than a proportion of their taxed
value as ascertained' by the use of the proportional
method above described. The further objection was made
that the method of settlement adopted resulted in discrimination against' exempt securities issued by the
United States or other federal instrumentalities, and that
these should have been deducted at their full value from
the gross assets before any computation of the tax. The
Common Pleas Court overruled these objections (without
discussing the treatment of the national bank' shares),
saying, with respect to United States bonds and like exempt securities, that as the tax was a tax upon shares,
and not upon the assets of the trust company, those securities had not in fact been taxed. In affirming the judgment the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said that as

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

119

Opinion of the Court.

the specifications of objections had not covered the point
as to national bank shares and the court below had not
discussed that matter it was not open in the appellate
court. As respects United States bonds, and other Federal securities, it concurred in- the view of the lower
court.
First. The appellant insists that as merely a portion of
the net assets of the corporation is taken as the basis
or measure of the tax, it cannot be upon the shares as
shares. The appellee relies upon the statement of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania that, the levy is upon
the shares and not upon assets. The appellant asks us
to ind to the contrary. We kive great weight to the characterization of a tax, or the interpretation of a' state
law, emanating from the highest court of the State, but
where a federal question is involved we are not bound
by the label attached to the tax or the character ascribed
to the law. We must determine for ourselves the true
nature of the tax by ascertaining its operation and effect."
It is clear that the tax is not measured by each shareholder's aliquot proportion of all the assets of the company. If amongst those assets are found shares of stock
of Pennsylvania corporations which, or whose shares, have
been declared exempt by the State,' this exemption is
effected in the instant case by taking them wholly or
partially out of the net assets which are the base for the
tax. The appellant says this demonstrates that the tax
is one upon assets. If the appellant is right the exaction
operates as a discrimination against Government securities and other assets exempt under federal law. Missouri
Insurance Co. v. Gehner, 281 U. S. 313. If the tax is one

truly upon that independent property evidenced by the
ownership of a share of corporate stock its collection does
not discriminate against United States securities."
'0 Senior v. Braden, 295 U. S. 422, 429.
"ISee note 8, supra.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

We think that the issue of discrimination is not to be
resolved by a choice between the two. contentions as to
the nature of the tax. The point is that the State has
chosen a portion only of the net assets of the corporation
as a measure of the tax; whether the exaction be from
the company or its shareholders. The State has exempted certain assets on the theory that to measure the
tax in part by their value would in effect be to tax them
twice. If to measure the shareholder's tax by inclusion
of these taxed or exempted securities found amongst the
company's assets would be to tax the shareholder in virtue of the company's ownership of those securities, it
seems clear that to refuse to exempt United States securities from the measure of the tax is to lay a tax reckoned
upon their value. To put it otherwisb, if to exclude securitie5 already taxed or exempted from tax pursuant to
the policy of the Commonwealth avoids double taxation,
to include United States securities in the measure of the
tax seems inevitably to increase the burden of the tax by
reason of their ownership. If the burden of the tax be
lifted in respect of some securities (as it is by confession
from those issued by certain Pennsylvania corporations)
it must necessarily fall on the remaining securities owned
by the company. -If the tax is lifted from the shares of
certain trust companies because those companies own
only stocks already taxed or relieved from taxation by
the State, and shares in other trust companies are taxed
amongst whose assets there are United States bonds or
other securities entitled to exemption because issued by
federal instrumentalities, which are figured in the base of
the tax, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the
law discriminates in favor of the former and against
the latter solely by reason of ownership of such federal
securities.
Second. It is indisputable that the shares of stock of
the Philadelphia National Bank owned by the appellant

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

121

Opinion of the Court.

were included in the base or measure of the tax. It is
undenied that these shares had been taxed to the trust
company, as permitted by R. S. 5219, and in accordance
with the applicable statutes of Pennsylvania;"2 and it
must be conceded that having once been taxed to their
owner, the trust company, they may not again be madethe base or measure of a tax to that company's stockholders. Bank of California v. Richardson, 248 U. S. 476.
The trial court seems to have excluded the' upon the
theory that they were not within the intent of the taxing
statute, which the court thought meant to exempt only
shares of Pennsylvania corporations which had been taxed
or relieved from tax by local law. This view the trial
court appears to have abandoned in a later case," where it
was held that stock of a federal reserve bank was within
the meaning of the Pennsylvania act and entitled to
exemption. This later decision was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania."
We are told that the matter is. not open here for the
reason that it was not raised on appeal to the Dauphin
County court, was not discussed by that court, and consequently the Supreme Court refused to consider it.
Whether the point was in fact raised in the court below
is itself a federal question, and we are bound to examine
the record to resolve it.' It appears that in the specifications of objection filed in Dauphin County court complaint was made that whereas there should have been a
flat deduction of all shares of corporations theretofore
taxed or exempted from tax, shares of the Philadelphia
1'2Act of July 15, 1897, P. L. 292, as amended by' Act of April 25,
1929, P. L. 677.
13 Commonwealth v. Provident Trust Coi, 40 Dauphin County
(Pa.), 146, 177.
"4319 Pa. 385; 180Atl. 16.
1I Carterv. Te.xas, 177 U. S. 442, 447; Ward v. Love County,' 253
U. S. 17, 22.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

National Bank were included in shares granted only a
proportional deduction. It further appears that in accordance with Pennsylvania practice, after the trial of-the
cause to the court without a jury the appellant submitted
requests for conclusions of law. Amongst these were requests 10 and 16, which referred specifically to the Philadelphia National Bank stock, and severally requested the
court to find (a) that these shares having been once
taxed under another act, to the trus t company as owner,
could not be taxed a second time, and (b) that the failure
to deduct the full value of the shares from the net assets
of the trust company operated to discriminate and impose
a tax upon the shares of stock in violation of R. S. 5219,
they having once been taxed under another statute. The
court answered both these requests in writing, "Refused."
The refusal of the requests was made the subject of exceptions which quoted the requests and the answers of the
court verbatim. The exceptions were overruled by the
court and errors were assigned to the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania to the overruling of the exceptions applicable to the refusal of the requests in question, which
were again quoted verbatim, with the answer of the court
to the request and the overruling of the corresponding
exception. In addition to these assignments of error the
appellant in the statement of questions involved, required
by the rules of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania to be
made a part of the brief on appeal, amongst others set
forth the following question: "Are assets consisting of
national bank shares to be eliminated from consideration
in determining the taxable value to which the rate of tax
is to be applied by deducting their actual value from the
value of the net assets? Answer of the court below No."
We think that notwithstanding the Dauphin County
court, in its opinion, failed to discuss this matter, as the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania points out-, the question
was sharply presented to that court and decided by it, and

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

123

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

that the rights of the appellant were specifically preserved
and pressed at every stage of the proceeding. We find,
therefore, that the question is here for decision. It might
well be disposed of by reference to what has already been
said with respect to bonds of the United States and like
securities. The discrimination here disclosed is, however,
more obvious than in the case of the other securities mentioned. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania elected to
exempt certain shares of stock of its own corporations because they had already been taxed. It exempted them
because to include them in the base would be in effect to
tax them a second time. The shares of the Philadelphia
National Bank had also been taxed pursuant to R. S.
5219, and if they were to be treated on an equal footing
with shares of domestic corporations the State was bound
to afford them a similar exemption from a second exaction..
• Third. The appellant argues that if, as declared by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the. tax is one upon
shares as such, it cannot be laid or Collected by the Commonwealth in respect of 166 shares of stock of the ap
pellant which by confession are owned by individual citizens and residents of states other than Pennsylvania, for
the reason that such shares have no taxable situs in Pennsylvania. In view of the grounds of our decision we find
it unnecessary to pass upon this contention.
The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO,

dissenting.

I think the judgment under review is right in so far as
it permits the inclusion of government bonds as factors
of value in the assessment of the tax, and wrong only in
so far as it violates a provision of § 5219 of the United
States Revised Statutes by the inclusion of shares in the
Philadelphia National Bank.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
C wozo, J., dissenting

-

296 U. S.

The tax in controversy is not laid upon the capital of
the trust company. It is laid upon the shares, payment.
being made in the first instance by the corporation as
the agent of the shareholders with a remedy over for
moneys so advanced. Home Savings Bank v. Des
Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 518; Commonwealth v. Merchants
& Manufacturers National Bank, 168 Pa. 309; 31 Atl.
1065; affirmed 167 U. S. 461; Commonwealth v. Mortgage
Trust.Co., 227 Pa. 163; 76 Atl. 5; Commonwealth v.
Union Trust Co., 237 Pa. 353; 85 Atl. 461; Northern
Trust Co. v.-McCoach, 215 Fed. 991; cf. National Bank v.
Commoniealth, 9 Wall- 353, 362; Aberdeen Bank v.
Chehalis County, f66 U. S. 440, 444, 445. The tax being laid upon the shares, and not upon the capital, the
Constitution does not make it necessary in the assessment of the tax to reduce the value of the shares to the
extent that bonds of the national government are included in the capital. This is settled law. Van Allen v.
Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; -Cleveland Trust Co. v. Lander,
184 U. S. 111; Des Moines Bank v. Fairweather, 263
U. S. 103, 112; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282
U. S. 379, 390.
The argument for the appellant is that the tax might
have been lawful if the shares had been -valued without
any deductions growing out of the nature of the capital,
but that the moment a deduction was allowed in respect of
any class, there was an unlawful discrimination against
government securities unless the deduction was enlarged
and made applicable to them. The attack is thus confined-to amendments of the act which were placed upon
the statute books in three years (1923, 1927, 1929), for
there was no deduction of any kind under the act as first
adopted in 1907. These amendment provide that the
assessment shall be reduced by deducting therefrom (1)
such part of the assets of the trust company as is invested in shares of other *corporations taxed by the Com-

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENN'A.
113

125

CAMDoZO, J., dissenting.

raonwealtli o Pennsylvania upon capital or shares (1923,
July 11, P. L. 1071, 1072, reenacted by 1927, May 7,
P. L. 853, 855; 1929, April 25, P. L. 673, 675), and (2)
such part as is invested in the shares of other corporations relieved by the Commonwealth from a capital tax
or a tax on shares (1927, May 7, P. L. 853, 855; 1929,
April 25, P. L. 673, 675). The purpose of the first deduction is to avoid double taxation or something akin thereto.
Cf. Commonwealth v. Fall Brook Coal Co., 156 Pa. 488,
495; 26 Atl. 1071; Commonwealth v. Lehigh Coal & Nav
-fgation Co., 162 Pa. 603, 609; 29 Atl. 664. The purpose
of the second is to promote the policy of the Commonwealth whereby particular kinds of business (i. e., the
business of manufacturing corporations, laundering corporations and corporations for the processing and curing
of meats) are relieved from the payment of taxes imposed
on other corporations to the extent that the business so
favored is carried on in Pennsylvania.* Dupuy v. Johns,
261 Pa. 40, 46; 104 Atl. 565.
The following is the text of the statute which defines the corporations entitled to such relief:
"And provided further, That the provisions, of this section shall
not apply to the taxation of the capital stock of corporations, limited
partnerships, and joint-stock associations, organized for laundering,
for the processing and curing of meats, their products and byproducts, or for manufacturing purposes, which is invested in and
actually and exclusively employed in, carrying on laundering, the
processing and curing of meats, their products and by-products, or
manufacturing within the State, excepting companies engaged in the
brewing or distilling of spirits or malt liquors, and such as enjoy and
exercise the right of eminent domain; but every corporation, limited
partnership, or joint-stock association organized for the purpose of
laundering, or processing and curing meats, their products and byproducts, or manufacturing, shall pay the State tax of five mills
herein provided, upon such proportion of its capital stock, if any, as
may be invested in any property or business not strictly incident or
appurtenant to the laundering or manufacturing business, or 'the
business of processing and curing meats, their products and by-.

,426,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

At the time of the assessment the appellant was the
owner of shares in corporations that paid a tax upon their.
capital to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Purdon's"
Pennsylvania Statutes, Title 72, § 1871. These shares
will be described for convenience as investments in class
number 1. Except for certain shares in the Philadelphia
National Bank, which will be separately considered, the
assets did not include an interest in corporations that paid
a tax upon their shares as distinguished from one upon
their capital. 'The appellant was also the owner, or so
it will be assumed, of shares of stock in manufacturing
corporations that were relieved from any tax. These
shares will be described for convenience as investments in
class number 2. The holding now is that the deduction
of the shares of either of these classes is an act of discrimination forbidden by the national constitution unless
investments in obligations issued by the national government are accorded the same favor.
I read the cases otherwise. The statute was not pqssed
as an act of " unfriendly discrimination" (Adams v. Nashville, 95 U. S. 19; MercantileBank v. New York, 121 U. S.
138, 161; Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis County, supra, at p.
461) against the national securities, nor was it passed in
aid of classes of investments with which- the national securities are in substantial competition. In the absence
of one or other of these motives or results the prejudice, if
products, in addition to the local taxes assessed upon its property in.
the district where located; it being the object of this proviso to -relieve
from State taxation only so much of the capital stock as is invested
purely in the laundering or manufacturing plant and business, or the
plant and business used in the processing and curing of meats, their
products and by-products: Provided further, In case of fire and
marine insurance companies, the tax imposed by this section shall be
at the rate of three mills upon each dollar of the actual value of the
whole capital stock: Provided, That nothing in this act shall be so
construed as to apply to building and loan associations chartered by
.the State of Peninsylvania." Purdon's Penn. Statutes, Title 72, § 1892.

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

CAPDOZO,

127

J., dissenting.

any, is too remote to be forbidden. There is no room in
the solution of problems of this order for doctrinaire definitions, heedless of practical results. Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523, 524. "In abroad sense, the
taxingpower of either government, even when exercised
in a manner admittedly necessary and proper, unavoidably has some effect upon the other." Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, supra, at p. 523. A sterile formalism would
quickly lead to an impasse, the activities of the states
checked because of an indirect effect upon the agencies of
the federal government, and the federal activities checked
for fear of a like effect upon the agencies of the states.
One must view the subject in a large way, if government
is to go on at all. Educational Films Corp. v. ,Ward,
supra,at p. 390 and cases there cited; Pacific,Co. v. Johnson, 285 U. S.480, 489; Trinityfarm Co. v. Grosjean, 291
U. S. 466; Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 225, 226;
Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S.214, 225.
"Unfriendly discrimination" might be inferred if securities of every kind were excluded from the reckoning with
the single exception of the obligations of the national government. That would be an extreme case, the conclusion
hardly doubtful. Even though hostility were not so
pointed as in the case supposed, there might still be an invidious distinction if securities in substantial competition
with evidences of indebtedness issued by the national government had been given a preferred position. Nothing
of the kind appears. "For reasons of public policy and
not as an unfriendly discrimination" (Aberdeen Bank v.
Chehalis County, supra, at p. 461), the value of a share in
a trust company is to be ,ascertained by excluding from
the assets the shares in other corporations that are liable to
the state for a tax upon their capital. Let it be assumed,
for illustration, that a trust company is the owner of
shares of stock in a department store doing business in
Philadelphia. Under the statutes of Pennsylvania a bus-

128'

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
C'iozo, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

iness of that kind pays a tax upon its capital. A trust
company does not. If it did, a hardship akin to that of:
double taxation would result if its interest in the department store were made use of to magnify its burden. But
the process of taxation does not end at that point. By
the plan of the statute the assessor passes over the trust
company and lays the tax upon the shareholders. 'The
same considerations of fair dealing and equality are then
applicable to them. So at least the legislature of Pennsylvania might not unreasonably believe. Never before
has it been held that out of deference or favor toward the
securities of government a state is disabled from framing
its system of taxation along lines of equity and justice.
Hepburn v. School Directors,23 Wall. 480, 485.
What is true of investments in class number 1 is true
also of investments in class number 2. "For reasons of
public policy and not as an unfriendly discrimination"
(Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis County, supra), corporations
organized for laundering, for the processing and curing of
meats, and for manufacturing within the state have been
relieved by Pennsylvania from liability for a tax upon
their capital. The motive dictating that exemption is
the desire to induce capital to come or.stay within the
state when employed in forms of enterprise believed to be
important for the good of the community. Dupuy v.
Johns, supra; Commonwealth v. Barnes Bros. Co., 5
Dauph. 75, 77; cf. New York State V. Roberts, 171 U. S.
658, 665, 666. In promotion of the same policy the shares
of corporations thus relieved from liability for a tax are
excluded from the reckoning when shareholders in trust
companies are taxed upon the value of their holdings.
The reckoning does not exclude the bonds or notes or other
evidence of indebtedness of corporations of any kind, foreign or domestic. It does not exclude the shares of, any
corporation not engaged in the enumerated forms of business, except in so far as such other corporations have al-

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

CADozo, J., dissenting.

ready paid a tax upon their capital or shares. It does
not exclude the shares of manufacturing corporations except to the extent of the capital employed in Pennsylvania. The deduction is limited in range and beneficent
in aim.
The situation, then, is this. Vast classes of securities-bonds and notes of every kind, as well as shares of stock
in many and varied enterprises-are in the same position
for the purpose of the tax in suit as government bonds and
notes. The few investments that occupy a different position are not comparable in kind or in attractiveness to
the obligations of the government and do not substantially compete with them. To hold that there was discrimination here in any forbidden sense is to hold that
bonds and notes of the United States must be deducted
from the value of the shares if there is a deduction of
any form of-investment, no matter how minute in amount
or alien in quality. Assume, for illustration, an exemption of the shares of corporations engaged in the manufacture of books or in the sale of works of art, an exemption accorded in furtherance of a policy to foster art
and letters. If the prevailing opinion stands, the policy
in such a case must be abandoned or the federal bonds
included. Assume again that laundering corporations
only had been relieved by Pennsylvania from liability for
a tax upon their capital. Laundering corporations, as we
have seen, were actually relieved, but manufacturing corporations also. The prevailing opinion, if it stands,
would bring us to a holding that laundering corporations
could not be favored without hostility and peril to the
treasury at Washington. This is to lose sight of the essence of discriminatory statutes and to stick in the bark
of a hard and narrow verbalism.
From such incongruities and excesses the avenue of
escape is clear. It is to be found in the acceptance of the
test put forward in this opinion. The discrimination, as
"'33682°-36--9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARDoZO,

J., dissenting

296 U. S.

has been said, must be so marked as to justify the inference that it was unfriendly in design or at the very least
it must favor forms of investment that are in substantial'
competition with government securities. A helpful analogy is found in the taxation of national banks. By R. S.
§ 5219; 12 U. S. C. § 548, the several states may tax the
shares of national banks, but "the tax imposed shall not
be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State
coming into competition with the business of national
banks." There are many cases in this court expounding
that enactment. Hepburn v. School Directors,supra, was
a case where a statute of a state had given exemption from
taxation to "all mortgages, judgments, recognizances and
moneys owing upon articles of agreement for the sale of
real estate." The court assumed that the exempt investments might be ranked as moneyed capital. The tax
upon the bank shares was none the less upheld. The
exemption was partial only. "It was evidently intended
to prevent a double burden by the taxation both of property and debts secured upon it." Id. at p. 485. There
was no token of a hostile purpose. "It could not have
been the intention of Congress to exempt bank shares
from taxation because some moneyed capital was exempt."
Ibid. Adams v. Nashville, 95 U. S. 19, was a case where
a municipal ordinance gave exemption from taxation to
the mu.nicipal bonds. Again the ruling was that this
exemption of particular property did not affect the validity of the tax upon the shares. "The plain intention of
that statute [R. S. § 5219] was to protect the corporations
formed under its authority from unfriendly discrimination
by the'States in the exercise of their taxing power." Id. at
p. 22. "It was not intended to cut off the power to
exempt particular kinds of property if the legislature
chose to sdo so." Ibid. Mercantile Bank v. New York,
121 U. S.138, was a case where, exemption had been given

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
113

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

to bonds of municipal corporations and also to deposits in
savings banks. 'Again the protest of, discrimination was
unavailing to defeat the tax. After quoting from Hepburn
v. School Directorsand Adams v. Nashville, the court went
on to say (p. 161): "The only limitation, upon deliberate
reflection, we now. think it necessary to add, is that these
exemptions should be founded upon just reason, and
not operate' as an unfriendly discrimination against investments in national, banks." The same note is sounded
in Aberdeen. Bank v. Chehalis County, supra. Even
though the investments subjected to a lighter tax are to
be classed as moneyed capital, this is unavailing without
more to condemn the classification as unlawful. Unless
the favored moneyed capital is in substantial competition
with the business of national banks, the preference is innocent in aim and harmless in result. At least, the harm, if
any, is too remote and dubious to vitiate the tax. First
National Bank v. Hartford,273 U. S. 548, 552; Minnesota
v. First National Bank, 273 U. S. 561, 568; Georgetoum
National Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 341, 348; First
National Bank v. Tax Commission, 289 U. S. 60, 65, 66;
cf. Hibernia Savings Society v. San Francisco, 200 U. S.
310, 314, 315. The conclusion is even clearer where the
investment may not properly be classified as moneyed
capital at all.*
Two cases, National Life Insurance Co. v. United States,
277 U. S. 508, and Missouri ex rel. Missouri Insurance
Co. v. Gehner, 281 U. S. 313, much relied upon by the
appellant, are far beside the mark.
The first of these cases brought up a controversy as to
a tax laid by Congress on the income of a life insurance
company. The company was to be allowed (1) a deducFor other and less direct analogies see: Cumberland Coal Co. v.
Board of Revision, 284 U. S. 23, 28; Iowa-Des Moines Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S. 239, 245; Rowley v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 293
U. S. 102, 111.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
CARwozo, J., dissenting.

296 U.S.

tion for tax exempt securities, and (2) an amount equal
to 4% of its mean reserve fund, diminished, however, by
the amount of the first allowance, the interest on government securities exempt under the federal law. The court
held that the effect of the second allowance was to cancel the exemption conceded by the first.
. The second of the two cases was one where in the view
of a majority of the court a tax had been laid directly
on the capital assets of the taxpayer and so on the government bonds included in the assets. It was not a case like
this where the shares and not the capital were subjected
to the burden.
I am unable for these reasons to discover an unlawful
discrimination though the tax be assessed in accordance
with the statute.
Assuming such a discrimination, I do not understand
that any mandate is laid by this court upon the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania as to the choice between-two methods of avoiding or correcting it.
The Acts of 1923, 1927 and 1929 prescribing the deductions, were amendatory statutes, separable, even
though invalid, from the acts thereby amended. Eberle
v. Michigan, 232 U. S. 700, 705; Davis v. Wallace, 257
U. S. 478, 484, 485; Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312, 342.
If the state maintains the deductions prescribed by the
amendments, it must remove the discrimination now held
to be unlawful, even at the price of enlarging the deductions. Iowa-Des Moines Bank V.Bennett, 284 U.: S. 239,
247. On the other hand, it may cancel the deductions
altogether, annulling the amendatory acts in so far as
they prescribe a new method of valuation and going back
in that respect to the law previously in force. In that
event the tax to be paid by the appellant will be increased
instead of lessened. The choice between these, curative
measures must be made by the state court.

AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.

133

Syllabus.

113

For reasons stated in Bank of California v. Richardson, 248 U. S. 476, the assessment is excessive to the extent
that it includes shares of stock of the Philadelphia National Bank belonging to the Trust Company. These
shares having been taxed to the Trust Company as owner
could not properly be taxed again to a shareholder of the
owner. Bank of Catifornia v. Richardson, supra; .R. S.
§ 5219.
Other questions are in the case, but they are not decided in the prevailing opinion, and will not be considered
here.
The judgment should be modified by directing the deduction from the assessment of the value of the appellant's shares in the Philadelphia National Bank, and as
modified affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE STONE'join in

this opinion.
AMERICAN

SURETY

CO.

v.

WESTINGHOUSE

ELECTRIC MANUFACTURING CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12.

Argued October 17, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. A bond given to the United States, pursuant to 40 U. S. C.,
§ 270, for the faithful performance of a construction contract and
for the making of prompt payment to all persons supplying the

principal with labor and materials in the prosecution of the work,
inures to the laborers and materialmen as obligees, together with
the United States, though the claims of the Government have
priority. P. 135:
2. Where a, bond securing payment of the claims of materialmen

was required by statute, and its full amount has been paid by
the surety and applied in part satisfaction of such claims, the
surety, against such claimants, has no equity to reimbursement
from funds of its insolvent principal until such claims have been

