OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S.

trust, attributable to the creator of the trust and accordingly taxable to him. These provisions have appropriate reference to cases where the income of the trust is
no longer to be regarded as that of the settlor, and we
find no warrant for a construction which would preclude
the laying of the tax against the one who through the
discharge of his obligation enjoys the benefit of the income as though he had personally received it.
I The decision in Helvering v. Butterworth, 290 U. S. 365,
is not opposed. There the trust was testamentary and
the only question was with respect to the liability for the
tax as between the trustee and the beneficiary. The
Court observed that "the evident general purpose of the
statute was to tax in some way the whole income of all
trust estates." The decision has no application to a case
where the income is still taxable to the grantor. Nor are
the provisions of the statutes (Revenue Acts, 1926, § 219
(h); 1928, § 167) defining instances in which the grantor
remains taxable, as in case of certain reservations for his
benefit or provisions for the payment of premiums upon
policies of insurance on his life, to be regarded as excluding instances not specified, where in contemplation of
law the income remains in substance that of the grantor.
No such exclusion is expressed and we see no ground for
implying it.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.
BORAX CONSOLIDATED, LTD.

ET AL. V.

LOS

ANGELES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34. Argued October 23, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.
1. Tide lands in California, which had not been granted by Mexico
or subjected to trusts requiring a different disposition, passed to
the State upon her admission to the Union. P. 15.

BORAX, LTD. v. LOS ANGELES.
10

11

Syllabus.

2. The Federal Government had no right to convey tideland which
had vested in the State by virtue of her admission. P. 16.
3. The words "public lands " are habitually used in our legislation
to describe such as are subject to sale or other disposal under
general laws. The term does not include tidelands. P. 17.
4. The authority given the Land Department over surveys of "public lands" of the United States, and its authority under the premption law to patent lands "belonging to the United States,"
did not empower it to make a survey defining the boundary between an upland lot belonging to the United State3, and tideland
belonging to a State, which would be conclusive against the State
or .her grantee in a subsequent suit against one claiming the lot
under a preemption patent. Knight v. United States Land Assn.,
142 U. S. 160, distinguished. P. 16.
5. The question of the jurisdiction of 'the Land Department to act
upon the subject matter-a patent of lands-is always open for
judicial determination. P. 17.
6. Where the District Court, due to the error of deeming a United
States survey and patent conclusive, failed to determine the boundary between tideland granted by a State and upland patented by
the United States, in a suit to quiet title involving that question
and others, the cause was properly remanded for a new trial. P. 21.
7. In a suit to quiet title brought by a party claiming tideland
under grant from a State, against a party claiming under a
patent from the United States which purports to convey, according to a plat of survey, land bordering on the ocean, the question
whether a part of the tideland is erroneously included by the
survey and patent is necessarily a federal question, since it concerns
the validity and effect of an act done by the United States and
involves the ascertainment of the essential basis of a right asserted
under federal law. P. 22.
8. Rights and interests in the tideland, which is subject to the
sovereignty of the State, are matters of local law. P. 22.
9. The tideland extends to the high water mark, which means, not a
physical mark made upon the ground by the water, but the line
of high water as determined by the course of the tides. P. 22.
10. At common law, ordinary high water mark is the boundary of
tideland. P. 22.
11. The boundary is the mean high tide line, which is neither the
spring tide nor the neap tide, but the mean of all the high tides.
Pp. 22, 26.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

12. In as much as the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey
defines mean high water at any plade as the average height of all
the high waters at that place over a considerable period of time,
and finds that, from theoretical considerations of an astronomical
character, there should be a periodic variation in the rise of water
above sea level having a period of 18.6 years, the Court approves
a ruling that, in order to ascertain mean high tide line with
requisite certainty in fixing the boundary of valuable tidelands,
an average of 18.6 years should be determined as nearly as
possible. P. 26.'
74 F. (2d) 901, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

295 U. S. 729, to review the reversal of a

decree of the District Court, which dismissed, upon the
merits a bill by the City" to quiet title to land claimed to
be tideland.
Mr. A. W. Ashburn, with whom Mr. Gurney E. Newlin was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Loren A. Butts, with whom Mr. Ray L. Chesebro
was on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of .Court, Messrs. Oscar Lawler and Eugene
M. Prince filed a brief as amici curiae, in support of certain contentions of respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The City of Los Angeles brought this suit to quiet title
to land claimed to be tideland of Mormon Island situated
in the inner bay of San Pedro now known as Los Angeles
Harbor. The City asserted .title under a legislative grant
by the State. Stats. Cal. 1911, p. 1256; 1917, p. 159.1
2The Act of 1911 (Stats. 1911, c. 656, p. 1256) provided: "There
is hereby granted to the city of Los Angeles, a municipal corporation
of the State of California, and to its successors, all the right, title
and interest of the State of California, held by said state by virtue
of its sovereignty, in and to all tide lands and submerged lands,

whether filled or unfilled, within the present boundaries of said city,

-

BORAX, LTD. v. LOS ANGELES.
10

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners claimed under a preemption patent issued by
the United States on December 30,,1881, to one William
Banning. The District Court entered a decree, upon
findings, dismissing the complaint upon the merits and
adjudging that petitioner, Borax Consolidated, Limited,
was the owner in fee simple and entitled to the possession
of the property. 5 F. Supp. 281. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the decree. 74 F. (2d) 901. Because
of the importance of the questions presented, and of an
asserted conflict with decisions of this Court, we granted
certiorari, June 3, 1935.
In May, 1880, one W. H. Norway, a Deputy Surveyor,
acting under a contract with the Surveyor General of the
United States for California, made a survey of Mormon
Island. The surveyor's field notes and the corresponding
plat of the island were approved by the Surveyor General
and were returned to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office. The latter, having found the survey to be
correct, authorized the filing of the plat. The land which
the patent to Banning purported to convey was described
by reference to that plat as follows: "Lot numbered one,
of section eight, in township five south, of range thirteen
west of San Bernardino Meridian, in California, containing eighteen acres, and eighty-eight hundredths of an
acre, according to the Official Plat of the Survey of the
said Lands, returned to the General Land Office by the
Surveyor General."
The District Court found that the boundaries of "lot
one," as thus conveyed, were those shown by the plat
and situated below the line of mean high tide of the Pacific ocean, or
of any harbor, estuary, bay or inlet within said boundaries, to be
forever held by said city, and by its successors, in trust for the uses
and purposes, and upon the express conditions following, to wit:
The conditions which followed are not material here.
The granting clause above quoted is the same in the Act of 1917
(Stats. 1917, p. 159),

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

and field notes of the survey; that all the lands described
in the complaint were embraced within that lot; and
that no portion of the lot was or had been tideland or
situated below the line of mean high tide of the Pacific
Ocean or of Los Angeles Harbor. The District Court
held that the complaint was a collateral, and hence unwarranted, attack upon the survey, the plat and the patent; that the action of the General Land Office involved
determinations of questions of fact which were within its
jurisdiction and were specially committed to it by law
for decision; and that its determinations, including that
of the correctness of the survey, were final and were
binding upon the State of California and the'City of
Los Angeles, as well as upon the United States.
The Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed with this view
as to the conclusiveness of the survey and the patent.
The court held that the Federal Government had neither
the power nor the intention to convey tideland to Bannig, and that his rights were limited to the upland.
The court also regarded the lines shown on the plat as
being meander lines and the boundary line of the land
conveyed as the shore line of Mormon Island. The court
declined to pass upon petitioners' claim of estoppel in
pais and by judgment, upon the ground that the question was not presented to or considered by the trial court,
and was also of the opinion that the various questions
raised as to the failure of the City to allege and prnve
the boundary line of the island were important only
from the standpoint of. the new trial which the court.
directed. 74 F. (2d) p. 904. For the guidance of the
trial court the Court of Appeals laid down the following
rule: The "mean high tide line" was to be taken as the
boundary between the land conveyed and the tideland
belonging to the State of California, and in the interest
of certainty the court directed that "an average for 18.6

BORAX, LTD. v. LOS ANGELES.
10

Opinion of the Court.

years should be determined as near as possible by observation or calculation." Id., pp. 906, 907.
Petitioners contest these rulings of the Court of Appeals. With respect to the ascertainment of the shore
line, they insist that the court erred in taking the "mean
high tide line" and in rejecting "neap tides". as the
criterion for ordinary high water mark.
1. The controversy is limited by settled principles governing the title to tidelands. The soils under tidewaters within the original States were reserved to
them respectively, and the States since admitted to the
Union have the same sovereignty and jurisdiction in relation to such lands within their borders as the original
States possessed. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367, 410;
Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 229, 230; Goodtitle v.
Kibbe, 9 How. 471, 478; Weber v. Harbor Commissioners,
18 Wall. 57, 65, 66; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 15, 26.
This doctrine applies to tidelands in California. Weber
v. Harbor Commissioners, supra; Shively v. Bow,by
supra, pp. 29, 30; United States v. Mission Rock Co., 189
U. S. 391, 404, 405. Upon the acquisition of the territory
from Mexico, the United States acquired the title to tidelands equally with the title to upland, but held the former
only in trust for the future States that might be erected
out of that territory. Knight V. United States Land
Assn., 142 U. S. 161, 183. There is the established qualification that this principle is not applicable to lands which
had previously been granted by Mexico to other parties
or subjected to trusts which required a different disposition,-a limitation resulting from the duty resting upon
the United States under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
(9 Stat. 922), and also under principles of international
law, to protect all rights of property which had emanated
from the Mexican Government prior to the treaty. San
Franciscov. Le Roy, 138 U. S. 656, 671; Knight v. United

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

States Land Assn., supra;Shively v. Bowlby, supra. That
limitation is not applicable here, as it is not contended
that Mormon Island was included in any earlier grant.
See DeGuyer v. Banning, 167 U. S. 723.
It follows that if the land in question was tideland, the
title passed to California at the time of her admission to
the Union in 1850. That the Federal Government had no
power to convey tidelands, which had thus vested in a
State, was early determined. Pollard v. Hagan, supra;
Goodtitle v. Kibbe, supra. In those cases, involving tidelands in Alabama, the plaintiffs claimed title under an
inchoate Spanish grant of 1809, an Act of Congress confirming that title, passed July 2, 1836, and a patent from,
the United States, dated March 15, 1837. The Court
held that the lands, found to be tidelands, had passed
to Alabama at the time of her admission to the Union in
1819, that the Spanish grant had been ineffective, and
that the confirming Act of Congress and the patent conveyed no title. The Court said that "The right of the
United States to the public lands, and the power of Congress to make all needful rules for the sale and disposition thereof, conferred no power to grant to the plaintiffs
the land in controversy." Pollard v. Hagan, supra. See
also Shively v. Bowlby, supra, at pp. 27, 28; Mobile
Transportation Co. v. Mobile, 187 U. S. 479, 490; Donnelly v. United States, 228 U. S. 243, 260-261.
2. As to the land in suit, petitioners contend that the
General Land Office had authority to determine the location of the bounda.ry betw een upland and tideland and did
determine it through the survey in 1880 and the consequent patent to Banning, and that this determination is
conclusive against collateral attack; in short, that the
land in controversy has been determined by competent
authority not to be tideland and that the question is not
open to reexamination. Petitioners thus invoke the rule

BORAX, LTD. v. LOS ANGELES.
10

17

Opinion of the Court.

that -" the power to make and correct surveys belongs to
the political department of the government and that,
whilst the lands are subject to the supervision of the General Land Office, the decisions of that bureau in all such
cases, like that of other special tribunals upon matters
within their exclusive jurisdiction, are unassailable by the
courts, except by a direct proceeding." R. S., §§ 453,
2395-2398, 2478; 43 U. S. C. 2, 751-753, 1201. Cragin v.
Powell, 128 U. S. 691, 698, 699; Heath v. Wallace, 138
U. S. 573, '585; Knight v. United States Land Assn.,
supra; Stoneroad v. Sto.neroad, 158 U. S.240, 250, 252;
Russell v. Maxwell Land Grant Co., 158 U. S. 253, 256;
United States v. Coronado Beach Co., 255 U. S.472, 487,
488.
But this rule proceeds upon the assumption that the
matter determined is within the jurisdiction of the Land
Department. Cragin v. Powell, supra. So far as pertinent here, the jurisdiction of the Land Department extended only to "the public lands of the United States."
The patent to Banning was issued under the preemption
laws, which expressly related to lands "belonging to the
United States." R. S. 2257, 2259. Obviously these laws
had no application to lands which belonged to the States.
Specifically, the term "public lands" did not include
tidelands. Mann v. Tacoma Land Co., 153 U. S. 273,
284. "The words 'public lands' are habitually used in
our legislation to describe such as are subject to sale or
other disposal under, general laws." Newhall v. Sanger,
92 U..S. 761, 763; Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S.481, 490;
Union Pacific R. Co. v. Harris,215 U. S.386, 388.
The question before us is not as to the general authority
of the Land Department to make surveys, but as to its
authority to make a survey, as a basis for a patent, which
would preclude the State or its grantee from showing in
an appropriate judicial proceeding that the survey was in33682*-36-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

accurate and hence that the patent embraced land which
the United States had no power to convey. Petitioners'
argument in substance is that while the United States
was powerless as against the State to pass title to tidelands in the absence of a survey (Pollardv. Hagan,supra),
the question whether or not the land was tideland would
.be foreclosed by a departmental survey, although erroneous. This contention encounters the principle that the
question of jurisdiction, that is, of the competency of the
Department to act upon the subject matter, is always
one for judicial determination. "Of course," said the
Court in Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 641, "when
we speak of the conclusive presumptions attending a
patent for lands, we assume that it was issued in a case
where the department had jurisdiction to act and execute
it; that is to say, in a case where the lands belonged to
the United States, and provision had been made by law
for their sale. If they never were public property, or
had previously been disposed of, or if Congress had made
no provision for their sale, or had reserved them, the
department would have no jurisdiction to transfer them,
and its attempted conveyance of them would be inoperative and void, no matter with what seeming regularity
the forms of law may have been observed." The Court
added that questions of that sort "may be considered by
a court of law "; for in such cases "the objection to the
patent reaches beyond the action of the special tribunal,
and goes to the existence of a subject upon which it was
competent to act." Id. See, also, Polk v. Wendall, 9
Cranch 87, 99; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 533;
Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488, 519; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618, 625; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 401;
Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 58, 59. Here, the question goes to the existence of the subject upon which the
Land Department was competent to act. Was it upland,
which the United States could patent, or tideland, which

BORAX, LTD. v. LOS ANGELES.
10

Opinion of the Court.

it could not? Such a controversy as to title is appropriately one for judicial decision upon evidence, and we find
no ground for the conclusion that it has been committed
to the determination of administrative officers.
Petitioners urge a distinction in that at the time of the
survey no private right in the property had yet attached
and the question lay between the Federal Government
and the State of California. But the distinction is immaterial. If tideland, the title of the State was complete on admission to the Union. No traAsfer to private
parties was necessary to perfect or assure that title and
no power of disposition remained with the United States.
To support their contention as to the conclusiveness of
the survey and patent, petitioners largely rely upon our
decision in Knight v. United States Land Assn., supra.
But that decision is not in point, as it related to land
which, albeit tideland, had been the subject of a Mexican
grant made prior to statehood. What had there been
done by the Federal Government was found to be in pursuance of the duty of the United States, imposed by the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo and the principles of international law, to protect the rights of property which had
previously been created by the Mexican Government.
The contest related to land in Mission Creek, an estuary
of the bay of San Francisco. The plaintiffs claimed under
a tideland grant from the State. The defendant's claim
rested upon the title of the City of San Francisco as successor to the Mexican pueblo of that name. Following
the procedure prescribed by statute with respect to the
confirmation of such titles (Acts of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat.
631; July 1, 1864, 13 Stat. 332), the City had obtained a
confirmatory decree from the United States Circuit Court
'in May, 1865. The statutes required that such a decree
should be followed by a survey under the supervision of
the General Land Office, and patent was to issue to the
successful claimant when such survey had been finally ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

proved. Id. Accordingly, after the decree in favor of the
City, a survey was made, which was approved by the Surveyor General and the Commissioner of the General Land
Office. The line of that survey ran along the line of or'
dinary high water mark of the bay of San Francisco, but
in the case of the estuary followed the tideline up the
creek and, crossing over, ran down on the other side. The
City objected to that method, insisting that the line should
have crossed the mouth of the estuary, and, on appeal,
that contention was sustained by the Secretary of the Interior. A second survey was made pursuant to that decision and a patent was issued. 142 U. S. pp. 162-172. The
plaintiffs contended that the first survey was correct and
the second unauthorized. Reviewing that branch of the
case, the Court decided that the Secretary of the Interior
had power to set aside the first survey and direct another, and that the departmental action in that particular
was unassailable. But that conclusion was not sufficient
to meet the plaintiffs' claim under the state grant, unless
it could be held that title to the land had not passed to the
State. Upon that question the court found that the case
of San Francisco v. LeRoy, 138 U. S. 656,. 670, 672, was
"directly in point," as the Court had there decided that
"if there were any tide lands within the pueblo the power
and duty of the United States under the treaty to protect
the claims of the City of San Francisco as successor to the
pueblo were superior to any subsequently acquired rights
of California." 142 U. S. pp. .183-185. In discharge of
that duty, provision had been made by Congress for the
investigation and confirmation of the property rights of
pueblos equally with those of individuals. The rights of
the pueblo "were dependent upon Mexican laws, and
when Mexico established those laws she was the owner of
tide lands as well as uplands, and could have placed the
boundaries of her pueblos wherever she thought proper."
It was for the United States to ascertain those boundaries

BORAX, LTD;, v. LOS ANGELES.
10

21

Opinion of the Court.

When fixing the limits of the claim of the City as successor
to the pueblo. Id., pp. 186, 187. The obligation of protection was "political in its character, to be performed in
such manner and on such terms as the United States
might direct." Accordingly, Congress had established a
special tribunal to consider claims derived from Mexico,
had authorized determinations by the court upon appeal, and "had designated the officers who should in all
cases survey and measure off the land when the validity
of the claim presented was finally determined." Id., pp.
202, 203. The survey upon which the patent rested in the
Knight case was thus made pursuant to the authority reserved to the United $tates to enable it to discharge its
international duty with respect to land which, although
tideland, had not passed to the State. See Shively v.
Bowlby, supra, pp. 30, 31; United States v. Coronado
Beach Co., supra.
The distinguishing features of the instant case are apparent. No prior Mexican grant is here involved. We
conclude that the State was not bound by the survey and
patent, and that its grantee was entitled to show, if it
could, that the land in question was tideland.
In this view it is not necessary to consider whether the
lines designated in the plat of the Norway survey as
"meander" lines were intended as boundaries.
3. As the District Court fell into a fundamental error
in treating the survey and patent as conclusive, it was
not incumbent upon the Court of Appeals to review the
evidence and decide whether it showed, or failed to show,
that the land in question was tideland. The court remanded the cause for a new trial in which the issues as
to the boundary between upland and tideland, and as
to the defenses urged by petitioners, are to be determined. In that disposition of the case we find no error.
4. There remains for our consideration, however, the
ruling of the Court of Appeals in instructing the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1935..
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

Court to ascertain as the boundary, "the mean high tide
line" and in thus rejecting the line Of "neap tides."
Petitioners claim under a federal patent which, according to the plat, purported to convey land bordering
on the Pacific Ocean. There' is no question that the
United States was free to convey the upland, and the patent affords no ground for holding that it did not convey
all the title that the United States had in the premises.
The question as to the extent of this federal grant, that
is, as to the limit of the land conveyed, or the boundary
between the upland and the tideland, is necessarily a
federal question. It is a question which concerns the
validity and effect of an act done by the United States;
it involves the ascertainment of the essential basis of a
right asserted under federal law. Packer v. Bird, 137
U. S. 661, 669, 670; Brewer-Elliott Oil Co. v. United
States, 260 U. S. 77, 87; United States v. Holt Bank, 270
U. S. 49, 55, 56; United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 75.
Rights and interests in the tideland, which is subject to
the sovereignty of the State, are matters of local law.
Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S.324, 338; Shively v. Bowlby,
supra, p. 40; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S.371, 382; Port
of Seattle v. Oregon & Washington R. Co., 255 U. S.
56, 63.
The tideland extends.to the high water mark. Hardin
v. Jordan, supra; Shively v. Bowlby, supra; McGilvra v.
Ross, 215 U. S.70, 79. This does not mean, as petitioners
contend, a physical mark made upon the ground by the
waters; it means the line of high water as determined by
the course of the tides. By the civil law, the shore extends as far as the highest waves reach in winter. Inst.
lib. 2, tit. 1, § 3; Dig. lib. 50, tit. 16, § 112. But by the
common law, the shore "is confined to the flux and reflux
of the sea at ordinary tides." Blundell v. Catterall, 5
B. & A. 268, 292. It. is the land "between ordinary high
and low-water mark, the land over which the daily tides

BORAX, LTD. v. LOS ANGELES.
10

23

Opinion of the Court.

ebb and flow. When, therefore, the sea, or a bay, is named
as a boundary, the line of ordinary high-water mark is
always intended where the common law prevails."
United States v. Pacheco, 2 Wall. 587, 590.
The range of the tide at any given place varies from
day to day, and the question is, how is the line of " ordinary" high water to be determined? The range of the
tide at times of new moon and full moon " is greater than
the average," as "high water then rises higher and low
water falls lower than usual." The tides' at such times
are called "spring tides." When the moon is in its first
and third quarters, "the tide does not rise as high nor
fall as low as on the average." At such times the tides
are known as "neap tides." "Tidal Datum Plane," U. S.
Coast and Geodetic Survey, Special Publication No. 135,
p. 3V2 The view that "neap tides" should be taken as
the ordinary tides had its origin in the statement of Lord
Hale. De Jure Maris, cap. VI; Hall on the Sea Shore, p.
10, App. xxiii, xxiv. In his classification, there are "three
sorts of shores, or littora marina, according to the various
tides," (1) "The high spring tides, which are the fluxes
of the sea at those tides that happen at the two equinoxials "; (2) "The spring tides, which happen twice
2See

"The Tide," H. A. Marme;, Assistant Chief, Division of

Tides and Currents, U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, pp. 9, 10.
"There is generally an interval of one or two days between full moon
or new moon and the greatest range of the tide. And a like interval
is found between the first and third quarters of the moon and the
smallest tides." Id., p. 11.
The origin of the terms spring and neap tides "is probably due to
the fact that as the moon leaves the meridian of the sun in her
orbital transit round the earth and approaches the quarters the tides
begin to 'fall off' or are 'nipped,' and neap tides ensue. As she
leaves the quarters for the meridian they begin to 'lift,' or 'come on,'
or 'spring up,' and when the meridian is reached spring tides ens.ue." "A Practical. Manual of Tides and Waves," W. H. Wheeler,
15. 49.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

every month at full and change of the moon "; and (3)
" Ordinary tides, or nepe tides, which happen between
the full and change of the moon." The last kind of shore,
said Lord Hale, "is that which is properly littus maris."
He thus excluded the "spring tides" of the month, assigning as the reason that "for the most part the lands
covered with these fluxes are dry and maniorable," that
is, not reached by the tides.
The subject was thoroughly considered in the case of
Attorney General v. Chambers, 4 De G. M. & G. 206. 1n
thai case Lord Chancellor Cranworth invited Mr. Baron
Alderson and Mr. Justice Maule to assist in the determination of the question as to "the extent of the right of
the Crown to the seashore." Those judges gave as their
opinion that the average of the "medium tides in each
quarter of a lunar revolution during the year" fixed the
limit of the shore. Adverting to the statement of Lord
Hale, they thought that the reason he gave would be a
guide to the proper determination. "What," they asked,
are "the lands which for the most part of the year are
reached and covered by the tides?" They found that the
same reason that excluded the highest tides of the month,
the spring tides, also excluded the lowest high tides, the
neaps, for " the highest or spring-tides and the lowest high
tides (those at the neaps) happen as often as each other."
Accordingly, the judges thought that "the medium tides
of each quarter of the tidal period" afforded the best
criterion. They said: " It is true of the limit of the shore
reached by these tides that it is more frequently reached
and covered by the tide than left uncovered by it. For
about three days it is exceeded, and for about three days
it is left short, and on one day it is reached. This point
of the shore therefore is about four days in every week,
i. e. for th6 most part of the year, reached and covered
by the tides." Id., p. 214.

BORAX, LTD. v. LOS ANGELES.
10'

25

Opinion of the Court.

Having received this opinion, the Lord Chancellor
stated his own. He thought that the authorities had left
the question "very much at large." Looking at " the principle of the rule which gives the shore to the Crown,"
and finding that principle to be that "it is land not
capable of ordinary cultivation or occupation, and so is
in the nature of unappropriated soil," the Lord Chancellor thus stated his conclusion: "Lord Hale gives as his
reason for thinking that lands only covered by the high
spring-tides do not belong to the Crown, that such lands
are for the most part dry and maniorable; and taking
this passage as the only authority at all capable of guiding us, the reasonable conclusion is that the Crown's
right is limited to land which is for the most part not
dry or maniorable. The learned Judges whose assistance
I had in this very obscure question point out that the
limit indicating such land is the line of the medium high
tide between the springs and the neaps. All land below
that line is more often than not covered at high water,
and so may justly be said, in the language of Lord Hale,
to be covered by the ordinary flux of the sea. This cannot be said of any land above that line." The Lord
Chancellor therefore concurred with the opinion of the
judges "in thinking that the medium line must be treated
as bounding the right of the Crown." Id., p. 217.3
This conclusion appears to have been approved in
Massachusetts. Commonwealth v. Roxbury, 9 Gray 451,
483; East Boston Co. v. Commonwealth, 203 Mass. 68,
72; 89 N. E. 236. See, also, New Jersey Zinc Co. v. Morris Canal Co., 44 N. J. Eq. 398, 401; 15 Atl. 227; Gould
on Waters, p. 62.
In California, the Acts of 1911 and 1917, upon which
the City of Los Angeles bases its claim, grant the "tide3 See, also, Tracey Elliott v. Earl of Morley, Ch. Div. 51 Sol. Journal (1907), 625.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

lands and submerged lands" situated "below the line of
Petitioners urge
mean high tide of the Pacific Ocean."
that "ordinary high- water mark" has been defined by
the state court as referring to the line of the neap tides.'
We find it unnecessary io review the cases cited or to
attempt to determine whether they record a final judgment as to the construction of the state statute, which,
of course, is a question for the state courts.
In determining the limit of the federal grant, we perceive no justification for taking neap high tides, or the
mean of those tides, as the boundary between upland and
tideland, and for thus excluding from the shore the land
which is actually covered by the tides most of the time.
In order to include the land that is thus covered, it is
necessary to take the mean high tide line which, as the
Court of Appeals said, is neither the spring tide nor the
neap tide, but a mean of all the high tides.
In view of the definition of the mean high tide, as given
by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey,6 that
"Mean high water at any place is the average height of
all the high waters at that place over a considerable
4

See Note 1.
5 See Teschemacher v. Thompson, 18 Cal. 11, 21; Ward v. Mulford,
32 Cal. 365, 373; Eichelberger v. Mills Land & Water Co., 9 Cal. App.
628, 639; 100 Pac. 117; Forgeus v. County of Santa Cruz, 24 Cal.
App. 193, 195; 140 Pac. 1092; F. A. Hihn. Co. v. City of Santa Cruz,
170 Cal. 436, 442; 150 Pac. 62; Oakland v. Wood Lumber Co., 211
Cal. 16, 23; 292 Pac. 1076; Otey v. Carmel Sanitary District, 219
Cal. 310, 313; 26 P. (2d) 308. In a number of cases the state court
has referred to the limit of the shore as the "ordinary" high water
mark. See Wright v. Seymour, 69 Cal.122, 126; 10 Pac. 323; Long
Beach Co. v. Richardson, 70 Cal. 206; 11 Pac. 695; Oakland v. Oakland Water Front Co., 118 Cal. 160, 183; 50 Pac. 277; Pacific Whaling Co. v. Packers' Association, 138 Cal. 632, 635, 636; 72 Pac. 161;
People v. California Fish Co., 166 Cal. 576, 584; 138 Pac. 79. See,
also, Strand Improvement 'Co. v. Long Beach, 173 Cal. 765, 770; 161
Pac. 975; Miller & Lux v. Secara, 193 Cal. 755, 761, 76Z 227 Pac. 171.
"" Tidal Datum Plane," Special Publication No. 135, p. 76.

GRAHAM v. WHITE-PHILLIPS CO.
Syllabus.

10

period of time," and the further observation that "from
theoretical considerations of an astronomical character"
there should be a "a "periodic variation in the rise of
water above sea level having a period of 18.6 years," '
the Court of Appeals directed that in order to ascertain
the mean high tide line with requisite certainty in fixing
the boundary of valuable tidelap4s, such as those here in
question appear to be, "an average of 18.6 years should
be determined as near as possible." We find no error in
that instruction.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that Knight
v. United States Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161, is controlling
and that the decree of the District Court should be
affirmed.

GRAHAM v. WHITE-PHILLIPS CO., INC.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 29.

Argued October 23, 24, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. A construction of the Illinois Uniform Negotiable Instrument Act,
by the Appellate Court of Illinois, not approved by the state Supreme Court otherwise than by a naked denial of an application
for review of the case by certiorari, is not binding on the federal
courts. P. 30.
2. One who purchases a stolen negotiable bond in good faith before
maturity, for a valuable consideration, may be a holder in due
course despite the fact that notice of the theft had previously come
to him, if, through forgetfulness or*negligence, he had it not in
mind when purchasing. Illinois Negotiable Instrument Act, § 52
(4); § 56, construed. P. 31.
7 Id.

p. 81.

