374

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

instrument authorized a wide range of activities in the
purchase, improvement and sale of properties in the cities
and towns of the State. The parties are not at liberty to
say that their purpose was other or narrower than that
which they formally set forth in the instrument under
which their activities were conducted. Undoubtedly they
wished to avoid partition of the property of which they
had been co-owners, but their purpose as declared in their
agreement was much broader than that. They formed a
combination to conduct the business of holding, improving
and selling real estate, with provision for management
through representatives, with continuity which was not
to be disturbed by death or changes in ownership of
beneficial interests, and with limited liability. They had
been co-owners but they preferred to become "associates,"
and also not to become partners. Morrissey v. Commissioner, supra.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are reversed
and the orders of the Board of Tax Appeals are affirmed.
Reversed.
JOHN A. NELSON CO. v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 61.

Argued November 19, 20, 1935.-Decided December 16,
1935.

1. A corporation transferred substantially all of its property to another corporation in return for cash and the entire issue of preferred
stock of the transferee, the stock being without voting rights except
in case of default in payment of dividends; the transferor used
part of the cash received to retire its own preferred stock, and
distributed to its stockholders the remainder of the cash and the
preferred stock of the transferee; the transferor corporation did

NELSON CO. v. HELVERING.
374

Opinion of the Court.

not dissolve, but retained its franchise and continued liable for
certain obligations. Held, there was a "reorganization'" under
ยง 203 (h) (1) (A) of the Revenue Act of 1926 and no taxable gain
upon the transaction was recognizable under the Act. P. 376.
2. Under ยง 203 (h) (1) (A) of the Act it is not essential to a reorganization that the transferor acquire a controlling interest in the
transferee; nor that the transferor be entitled to participate in the
management of the transferee; nor that the transferor be dissolved.
P. 377.
3. Paragraph (h) (1) (B) of ยง 203, under vhich control of the transferee corporation by the transferor or its stockholders is essential
to a reorganization, was not intended to modify the provisions of
p'aragraph (h)(1) (A). P. 377.
4. The owner of preferred stock, though without voting rights, has
a substantial interest in the affairs of the issuing corporation. P. 377.
75 F. (2d) 696, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment affirming a decision
of the Board of Tax Appeals (24 B. T. A. 1031; 28 B. T.
A. 529) sustaining a determination of a deficiency in income tax.
Mr. J. S. Seidman for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs.
James W. Morris and Sewall Key were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner contests a deficiency income assessment
made on account of alleged gains during 1926. It claims
that the transaction out of which the assessment arose
was reorganization within the statute. Section 203, Revenue Act, 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 11, is relied upon. The
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

pertinent parts are in the margin of the opinion in Helvering v. Minnesota Tea Co., post, p. 378.
In 1926, under an agreement with petitioner, the Elliott-Fisher Corporation organized a new corporation with
12,500 shares non-voting preferred stock and 30,000 shares
of common stock. It purchased the latter for $2,000,000
cash. This new corporation then acquired substantially
all of petitioner's property, except $100,000, in return for
$2,000,000 cash and the entire issue of preferred stock.
Part of this cash was used to retire petitioner's own preferred shares, and the remainder and the preferred stock
of the new company went to its stockholders. It retained
its franchise and $100,000, and continued to be liable for
certain obligations. The preferred stock so distributed,
except in case of default, had no voice in the control of
the issuing corporation.
The Commissioner, Board of Tax Appeals and the court
all concluded there was no reorganization. This, we think,
was error.
The court below thought the facts showed "that the
transaction essentially constituted a sale of the greater
part of petitioner's assets for cash and the preferred stock
in the new corporation, leaving the Elliott-Fisher Company in entire control of the new corporation by virtue of
its ownership of the common stock."
"The controlling facts leading to this' conclusion are
that petitioner continued its corporate existence and its
franchise and retained a portion of its assets; that it acquired no controlling interest in the corporation to which
it delivered the greater portion of its assets; that there
was no continuity of interest from the old corporation
to the new; that the control of the property conveyed
passed to a stranger, in the management of which petitioner retained no voice.

NELSON CO. v. HELVERING.
374

Opinion of the Court.

"It follows that the transaction was not part of a
strict merger or consolidation or part of something that
partakes of the nature of a merger or consolidation and
has a real semblance to a merger or consolidation involving a continuance of essentially the same interests
through a new modified corporate structure. Mere acquisition by one corporation of a majority of the stock
or all the assets of another corporation does not of itself
constitute a reorganization, where such acquisition takes
the form of a purchase and sale and does not result in or
bear some material resemblance to a merger or consolidation."
True, the mere acquisition of the assets of one corporation by another does not amount to reorganization within
the statutory definition. Pinellas Ice Co. v. Commissioner, 287 U. S. 462, so affirmed. But where, as here,
the seller acquires a definite and substantial interest in
the affairs of the purchasing corporation, a wholly different situation arises. The owner of preferred stock is
not without substantial interest in the affairs of the issuing corporation, although denied voting rights. The
statute does not require participation in the management
of the purchaser; nor does it demand that the conveying
corporation be dissolved. A controiling interest in the
transferee corporation is not made a requisite by ยง 203
(h) (1) (A). This must not be confused with par.
'(h) (2).
Finally, as has been pointed out in the Minnesota Tea
case, supra, par. (h) (1) (B) was not intended to modify
the provisions of par. (h) (1) (A). It describes a class.
Whether some overlapping is possible is not presently
important.
The judgment below must be
Reversed.

