CHANDLER CO. V. BRANDTJEN, INC.
48

53

Syllabus.

sons were "that there had been no transfer of such property during the lifetime of the decedent; that such
property was transferred at and as a result of the death
of the decedent; and that such transfer was intended to
take effect at or after the death of the decedent," and
that the commissioner advised respondents accordingly.
We are unable to find anything in the record which justifies the conclusion that the commissioner specifically determined that the transfers were made in contemplation
of death, or, indeed, that there was any evidence before
him on that subject.
In this state of the record it cannot be said that the
finding of the trial court in this regard obtains any support from the determination of the commissioner. The
situation simply is that the findings of the lower courts
upon the matter are in conflict; and a careful examination of the evidence contained in the record convinces
us that the finding of the trial court was erroneous, and
we so hold.
Judgment affirmed.
The

CHIEF

JUSTICE,

MR.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

MR.

JUSTICE STbNE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO dissent for reasons stated in their dissent in Helvering v. St. Louis Union
Trust Co., ante, p. 46.
CHANDLER & PRICE CO. v. BRANDTJEN &
KLUGE, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 11.

Argued October 16, 17, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. On application to intervene in equity, it is the better'practice to
present the applicant's proposed answer. P. 56.
2. In a patent infringement suit brought against the user of a machine, the manufacturer of the accused article was permitted to in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

tervene. It thereupon answered, jointly with the defendant, denying infringement and challenging ihe plaintiff's patent, and furthermore set up, separately, a counterclaim against the plaintiff
for infringement of another patent, owned solely by the intervener.
There was no suggestion that the defendant had any interest in
the counterclaim, or that the issues tendered by or that might
arise out of it could not be adjudged in a separate suit. Held:
(1) That the facts alleged in the petition for intervention were
insufficient to show that the intervener was the real party in interest or entitled to intervene as a matter of equitable right. P. 56.
(2) The counterclaim was rightly dismissed; the intervener is
limited to the field of litigation open to the original parties. P. 57.
(3) Equity Rule 30 does not authorize one given the privilege to
intervene as party defendant to set. up and enforce against the
plaintiff a counterclaim not available to the original defendant and
in which that defendant has no interest. P. 58.
(4) Equity Rule 37, declaring that anyone claiming "an interest
in the litigation" may be permitted to assert his right by intervention, means an interest in matters then in controversy between
the plaintiff and original defendant; the purpose for which permission to intervene may be given is that the applicamt may be put
in position to assert in that suit a right of his in respect of something there in dispute between the original parties. P. 59.
75 F. (2d) 472, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 724, to review the affirmance of a
decree dismissing a counterclaim set up by an intervener
in a patent infringement suit.
Mr. Wallace R. Lane, with whom Mr. John F. Oberlin
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds for Brandtjen & Kluge, Inc.,
respondent.
No appearance for Joseph Freeman, Inc., respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Brandtjen & Kluge, Inc., brought this suit in the District Court for Eastern New York against Joseph Freeman, Inc. The bill alleges that plaintiff is the owner of

CHANDLER CO. v. BRANDTJEN, INC.
53

55

Opinion of the Court.

patent No. 1,363,200 for "Improvements in Automatic
Feed and Delivery for Platen Presses," that defendant is
using an infringing printing press, and prays injunction
and accounting. Before answer by defendant, the Chandler & Price Company applied to the court for leave to
intervene as a party defendant. The substance of the
facts it alleges in order to show that it has an interest
in the litigation (Equity Rule 37) is as follows: Petitioner
is engaged in manufacturing and selling printing presses.
It made and sold to defendant tie one of which the bill
complains, and intends openly to defend this suit. After
it put its machine upon the market, plaintiff threatened
to sue users for infringement, and as a consequence petitioner's customers required it to give bonds for their protection. Before bringing this suit, plaintiff's counsel
wrote defendant enclosing a copy of plaintiff's patent and
asked defendant to respect their client's rights. That
letter having been referred to petitioner, its counsel inquired of plaintiff's counsel whether suit would be brought
against, defendant (a user of one press) in the Eastern
District of New York rather than directly against petitioner (a manufacturer. and seller) in the Northern District of Ohio. Plaintiff's counsel answered that decision
to sue defendant in the New York district had been
reached, and promised to serve a copy of the bill upon
petitioner's counsel. Shortly after commencement of suit
that was done. Plaintiff's threats to bring infringement
suits against users injured petitioner's business and unnecessarily harassed its customers. Although long before
commencement of the suit its device had been shown to
plaintiff's counsel and plaintiff knew that it was being
sold throughout the United States, plaintiff did not sue
petitioner. Defendant has not sufficient interest in the
result of the litigation to defend this suit on its own
account. Petitioner's intervention is necessary for the
protection of its interest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

Contrary to the better practice, the application for intervention did not present a proposed answer. Cf. Toler
v. East Tennessee, V. & G. Ry. Co., 67 Fed. 168, 174.
Stallings v. Conn, 74 F. (2d) 189, 191. It did not suggest that, independently of defendant or otherwise, petitioner sought opportunity in this suit to enforce a claim
for patent infringement against the plaintiff. After hear-ing, the court granted the leave applied for. Thereupon,
the defendant and intervenor filed an answer in which
jointly they deny infringement and assert invalidity of
plaintiff's patent. And in'the same answer the intervenor
separately sets up a counterclaim against the plaintiff for
infringement of patent No. 1,849,314 for "Improvements
in Sheet Transferring Mechanism for Printing Presses,"
owned solely by it, and prays decree against plaintiff for
injunction and accounting. Maintaining that it states a
cause of action to which the original defendant is' a
stranger, plaintiff moved to dismiss the intervenor's counterclaim. The District Court granted the motion. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 75 F. (2d) 472.
The order granting intervention is not here challenged.
The sole question is whether intervenor may bring into
this suit a controversy between it and plaintiff in which
defendant has no interest.
Intervenor insists that it, rather than the defendant
sued, is the real party in interest and that its counterclaim
should be permitted so that the entire controversy between the real parties may be settled in a single suit. But
intervenor's legal position in relation to the case differs
essentially from what it would have been had the bill
named it as a defendant and alleged a cause of action
against it in the infringement suit. Undoubtedly in such
a case the petitioner, whether or not suable in that district (ยง 48, Judicial Code) would have had the right to
enter its appearance and make its defense, and also to set
up counterclaim against plaintiff. Leman v. Krentler-

CHANDLER CO. v. BRANDTJEN, INC.
53

57

Opinion of the Court.

Arnold Co., 284 U. S. 448, 451. General Electric Co. v.
Marvel Co., 287 U. S. 430, 435. Here plaintiff's alleged
cause of action is use by the defendant of a single machine
alleged to infringe patent No. 1,363,200 belonging to
plaintiff. Defendant has no interest in patent No. 1,849,314 owned by intervenor and made the basis of the counterclaim in question. The bill neither alleges any cause
of action nor prays judgment against the intervenor. Petitioner was not sued and, until granted leave to intervene, it was a stranger to the suit. The facts alleged in
its application were not sufficient to show that as a matter
of equitable right petitioner is entitled to intervene.
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. United Statles & M. T.
Co., 221 Fed. 545, 552. United States Trust Co. v. Chicago Terminal T. R. Co., 188 Fed. 292, 296. Tcler v.
East Tennessee, V. & G. Ry. Co., supra, 171-172. Chester v. Life Assn. of America, 4 Fed. 487, 491. The showing presents a situation familiar in, patent infringement
cases brought against a user where the maker of the accused article is upon its application and in the discretion
of the court permitted to intervene. Curran v. St.
Charles Car.Co., 32 Fed. 835, 836. Foote v. Parsons NonSkid Co., 196 Fed. 951, 953. Continuous Extracting
Corp. v. Eastern Cotton Oil Co., 264 Fed. 340. Baldwin
v. Abercrombie & Fitch Co., 227 Fed. 455; 228 Fed. 895,
affirmed sub nom. Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin,
245 U. S. 198, 200. See Angier v. Anaconda Wire & Cable
Co., 48 F. (2d) 612, 613. The record discloses no foundation for the claim that the defendant sued is not, or that
the intervenor is, the real defendant in interest.
There is no suggestion that defendant has any interest
in the counterclaim or that the issues between intervenor
and plaintiff that are tendered by, or that might possibly
arise out of, the counterclaim ma- not be adjudged in a
separate suit. The intervenor 'was not entitled to come
into the suit for the purpose of having adjudicated a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

troversy solely between it and plaintiff. Issues tendered
by or arising out of plaintiff's bill may not by the intervenor be so enlarged. It-is limited to the field of litigation open to the original parties. Curran v. St. Charles
Car Co., supra, 837. Powell v. Leicester Mills, 92 Fed.
115. Atlas Underwear Co. v. Cooper Underwear Co., 210
Fed. 347, 355. Leaver v. K. & L. Box & Lumber Co.,
6 F. (2d) 666. De Sousa v. Crocker First Nat. Bank, 23
F. (2d) 118, 122. Board of Drainage Comm'rs v. Lafayette Southside Bank, 27 F. (2d) 286, 296. Tretolite Co.
v. Darby Petroleum Corp., 5 F. Supp. 445, 446. The decisions 'of the District Court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals in United States Expansion Bolt Co. v. H. G.
Kroncke H. Co., 216 Fed. 186; 234 Fed. 868, are disapproved to the extent, if at all, that they tend to support
intervenor's contention that it is entitled to set up the
counterclaim.
The intervenor invokes Equity Rule 30 and insists that
counterclaims there referred to are not restricted to those
required or permitted to be set up by a defendant sued, in
contradistinction to an intervenor as party defendant
under Rule 37. And it further insists that, by virtue of
the leave to intervene and in view of the answer interposed, it is a defendant within the meaning of Rule 30.
That rule declares: "The defendant by his answer shall
set out . :. his defense to each claim asserted in the
bill . . . The answer must state . . . any counterclaim
arising out of the transaction which is the subject-matter
of the suit, and may, without cross-bill, set up any set-off
or counterclaim against the plaintiff which might be the
subject of an independent suit in equity agAinst him..."
It is true, as suggested by the intervenor, that this rule
does not expressly make a distinction between a defendant
named in the bill and one who, leave having been granted,
intervenes as a party defendant. But the context makes

CHANDLER CO. v. BRANDTJEN, INC.
53

Opinion of the Court.

against construing the word "-defendant." as used in the
rule to include one permitted to intervene. See Ailington v. Shevlin-Hixon Co., 2 F. (2d) 747, 749. The statement that defendant shall set up his "defense to each
claim asserted in the bill" is inconsistent with the construction for which the intervenor here contends. Intervention necessarily is subsequent to the commencement of
the suit. As shown above, this bill does not make the
intervenor a party or allege aught against it. It is plain
that the rule does not authorize one given the privilege to
intervene as party defendant to set up and enforce against
the plaintiff a counterclaim not available to the original
defendant and in which it had no interest. Construction
of the rule that denies intervenor the right to set up the
counterclaim in question is supported by Equity Rule 37
which declares: "Anyone claiming an interest in the litigation may at any time bepermitted to assert his right by
intervention . .. " It is essential that the applicant shall
claim an interest in the matters there in controversy between the plaintiff and original defendant. The purpose
for which permission to intervene may be given is that
the applicant may be put in position to assert in that suit
a right of his in respect of something there in dispute between the original parties. Intervenor's counterclaim, involving nothing in which defendant is concerned, does not
constitute the interest referred to in Rule 37.
Exclusion from the litigation of that demand is consonant with reason and in the interest of justice. Introduction by intervention of issues outside those that properly may arise between the original parties complicates
the suit and is liable to impose upon plaintiff a burden
having no relation to the field of the litigation opened by
his bill. Leaver v. K. & L. Box & Lumber Co., supra.
Gregory v. Pike, 67 Fed. 837, 845. In the absence of
language definitely requiring it, the construction of Rule

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

30 for which the intervenor contends cannot reasonably be
sustained. The counterclaim against the plaintiff was
rightly dismissed.
___________Affrmed.

RAYBESTOS-MANHATTAN, INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 20.

Argued October 22, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

Pursuant to a consolidation agreement, two corporations conveyed
their property to a new corporation in return for shares of its capital stock, issued not to the two corporations but directly to their
stockholders, in proportion to their hol'dings in those corporations.
Held-,
That the transaction was subject to a stamp tax under ยง 800 of
the Revenue Act of 1926, not only on the original issue of the
shares; but also on the transfers necessarily involved, whereby
the rights to receive the shares, inherent in the two corporations
by olieration of law, were transferred by the agreement to the
stockholders. P. 62.
80 Ct. Cls. 809; 10 F. Supp. 130, affirmed.

295 U. S. 727, to review a judgment of the
Court of Claims denying recovery of money exacted by
the United States as stamp taxes.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Charles H. LeFevre, with whom Mr. Howard S.
LeRoy was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. F. Prescott, with whom Solicitor 6Oeneral Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr. James

W. Morris were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case we granted certiorari to review a judgment
of the Court of Claims, to settle a doubtful point of fedetral law, of importance in the administration of the

