OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

296 U.S.

vided and entered in the separate accounts. The property account of the single trust was closed and the items
were transferred equally to separate accounts in the names
of the beneficiaries, showing one-third of the assets of the
old trust as representing the corpus of each of the three
trusts. New principal was divided equally in the same
way. If, at the outset, there had been three trust deeds,
each creating a trust for the benefit of a distinct beneficiary in an undivided one-third of the property involved,
no question would have arisen. We think the same result
was achieved by the use of the power of amendment. We
find no ground for concluding that the purpose of the
parties to create the three trusts was not carried out.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the order of the Board of Tax Appeals is affirmed.

Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. McILVAINE ET AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 566.

Argued December 17, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

Decided upon the authority of United States Trust Co. v. Commissioner, ante, p. 481.
78 F. (2d) 787, affirmed.
CERTIORARI *to

review a judgment affirming a decision

of the Board of Tax Appeals, 27 B. T. A. 304, which overruled an additional tax assessment on a trustee.

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for, petitioner.
Mr. Clay Judson forXespohdents.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

LEGG v. ST. JOHN.
488

Syllabus.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question presented in this case is similar to that
involved in United States Trust Co. v. Commissioner,
decided this day, ante, p. 481. By amendments under a
reserved power, the terms of an original trust created by
John P. Wilson, in 1913, were altered with the intention
of creating three separate trusts. The Board of Tax Appeals, upon findings supported by evidence, concluded
that this purpose was accomplished and hence that there
was no deficiency. 29 B. T. A. 304. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the order' of the Board. 78 F. (2d)
787. We granted certiorari because of the conflict with
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the.Second Circuit, in the case -of the United States Trust Company, supra, 75 F. (2d) 973, and, for the reasons stated
in our opinion in that case, the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is
Affirmed.
LEGG v. ST. JOHN, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 54.

Argued November 18, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

1. The right of a bankrupt to receive future disability payments
under a contract with an insurance company having no cash surrender value, is not insurance within the meaning of ยง 70 (a) of
the Bankruptcy Act, and, if not exempted by the state law, passes
to his trustee in bankruptcy. P. 493.
Provision for the payment of disability benefits in connection
with life insurance was not introduced in the United States until
about twenty years after the pabsage of the Bankruptcy Act.
2. The fact that the disability benefits were provided for in a supplementary contract issued on the same day as, and physically

