362

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

296 U.S.

were regulations or rulings in force, at the time of the
return for the taxable year 1924, under which the trust in
this instance would be taxable as a trust and not as an
association.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
SWANSON

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 108.

Argued November 21, 22, 1935.-Decided December 16,
1935.

1. A trust formed by the owners of an apartment house under an
agreement conveying title to trustees and providing complete power
in them to manage, control, sell, etc.; with shares of beneficiaries
represented by transferable "receipts," to be registered; with limited liability and succession and continuity during the trust period,-held taxable as an "association," under the Revenue Act of
1926. Morrissey v. Commissioner, ante, p. 344. P. 363.
2. The limited number of actual beneficiaries and the fact that the
operations did not extend beyond the real property first acquired
did not alter the nature and purpose of the common undertaking.
P. 365.
76 F. (2d) 651, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review the affirmance of a decision of
the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained a tax assessed
on the income of a trust as an association.
Mr. Arnold R. Baar for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and
Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, for respondent.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

SWANSON v. COMMISSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

362

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question presented is whether the income of the
"Lake View Land Association" for the years 1925 and
1926 was subject to tax as the income of a trust under
ยง 219 of the Revenue Act of 1926,1 or as the income of an
"as, ociation" by virtue of ยง 2 (a) (2) of that Act.2 The
Circuit Court of Appeals held the taxpayer to be an "association" and affirmed the decision of the Board of Tax
Appeals to that effect. '76 F. (2d) 651. This Court
granted a writ of certiorari. See Morrissey v. Commissioner, ante, p. 344.
The material facts as found by the Board of Tax Appeals are as follows: Joseph E. Swanson and Ralph C.
Otis, in 1914, acquired a piece of vacant land in the city
of Chicago with the view of improving it by the erection
of an apartment house, the title being taken by Swanson.
An apartment house was built. Subsequently, in 1915,
at the suggestion of their attorney, they entered into a
trust agreement for the purpose of carrying the title to
the property. The trust was designated as the "Lake
View Land Association." The first trustees were Ralph
C. Otis, Joseph E. Swanson, and Allen G. Mills. Petitioners set forth the following summary of the trust agreement,--taken from the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals:
"Under the trust agreement, - the trustees were given
the complete management and control of the property, to
exchange, reconstruct, remodel, sell, or improve at their
discretion or to borrow money secured by the property.
They were authorized to rent suitable quarters for the
transaction of the business of the trust and employ such
144

Stat. 32.

'44 Stat. 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

assistants as they required. The agreement provided for
the issuance of 'receipts' to evidence the interests of the
beneficiaries, representing 1,000 shares at the par value of
$100 each. It was provided that the receipts were evidences of the ownership of personal property and not real
estate. They might be transferred by assignment. Originally, one-half of the shares were issued to Otis and onehalf to Swanson, who later transferred their interests to
their wives, who owned the shares during 1925 and
1926. The agreement provided that the trust could sue
and be sued;' that neither the trustees nor the beneficiaries should be personally liable, and that all persons dealing with the trustees must look only to the property of
the trust; that it should be terminated at the expiration
of twenty years after the death of the last survivor of
certain named persons or by the trustees in their discretion at any time before the expiration of the twenty
years by selling all the property held by them as such
and distributing the net proceeds of such sale. The
trust had succession and was not terminated by the death
of a trustee or beneficiary."
The Court of Appeals also stated that "The trustees
of the Lake View Land Association never assembled in
formal meetings, never adopted resolutions or took formal
action with reference to the affairs of the property, kept
no minute book, had no by-laws. They elected no officers and no so-called board of directors."
The compensation of the trustees was to be fixed by
themselves but was not to exceed 21/2 percent of the gross
income of the trust. After making provision for the payment of outstanding claims, the net income was to be
divided among the beneficiaries according to their interests, and on the request of any beneficiary the trustees
'Petitioners submit that this provision of the agreement should,
under the law of Illinois, be taken to imply that the trustees could
sue and be sued as individuals, and not "the trust as an entity."

HELVERING v. COMBS.
362

Syllabus.

were to render annual accounts. The trust agreement also
made provision for a written registry of beneficiaries, who
could transfer their interests in a described manner, after
having first offered them to the other beneficiaries.
The renting of apartments, the details of management
and the distribution of net income, were committed to a
firm (of which Joseph E. Swanson was a member) engaged in the business of buying and selling real estate
and managing properties. That firm acted under the
direction of Ralph C. Otis and Joseph E. Swanson and
the "entire affairs of the Lake View Land Association"
were at all times in their hands.
Applying the governing principles, as set forth in our
opinion in Morrissey v. Commissioner, supra, we agree
with the Court of Appeals that the-trust constituted an
association and was taxable as such. The limited number
of actual beneficiaries did not alter the nature and purpose
of the common undertaking. Nor did the fact that the
operations of the association did not extend beyond the
real property first acquired change the quality of that
undertaking.
The judgment is

Affirmed.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. COMBS ET AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 238.

Argued November 22, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.

A common enterprise, under a trust instrument, for acquisition of
an oil lease, drilling and operation of an oil well, sale of the products, sale of the well, and distribution of income among the beneficiaries, held taxable on income as an "association" under the
Revenue Act of 1926, upon the authority of Morrissey v. Commissioner, ante, p. 344. P. 368.
76 F. (2d) 682, reversed.

