HELVERING v. COLEMAN-GILBERT.

369

Counsel for Parties.

365

sponsibilities of partners and secured advantages analogous to those which pertain to corporate organization.
The fact that meetings were not held or that particular
forms of corporate procedure were absent is not controlling. Morrissey v. Commissioner, supra.
We think that the taxpayer was taxable as an association. The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. COLEMAN-GILBERT ASSOCIATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 78 and 79.

Argued November 21, 1935.-Decided
December 16, 1935.

1. A common enterprise, under a trust agreement, for the owning,
operating, leasing, and selling of particular property conveyed
to the trustees by its co-owners, and of such other, similar property as it might acquire, and for distribution of net income among
the trust beneficiaries, held taxable on income as an "association"
under the Revenue Acts of 1926 and 1928. Morrissey v. Commissioner, ante, p. 344. P. 372.
2. The parties are not at liberty to disclaim the purpose of the
trust organization as revealed by the trust instrument. P. 373.
76 F. (2d) 191, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 30 B. T. A. 1463,
which sustained assessments of income taxes laid on a
trust as an "association."

Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and
Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, for petitioner.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
33682 o-36--24

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

Mr. Ralph E. Tibbetts, with whom Mr. Henry Herrick
Bond was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue determined deficiencies in income taxes for the years 1927 to 1929 upon
the ground that respondent was taxable as an association.
The decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, sustaining this
ruling, was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 76
F. (2d) 191. In view of the conflict of decisions as to
the test to be applied, we granted certiorari. See Morrissey v. Commissioner,ante, p. 344.
From the facts, as found by the Board of Tax Appeals,
it appears that respondent was formed by an indenture.
of trust in November, 1926. The creators of the trust
were Harry Coleman, Pauline Coleman, Bernard Gilbert,
Harris Levine, and Lena Levine. They were co-owners
of real property consisting of about twenty apartment
houses in the city of Boston and vicinity.
The property had originally been owned by Harry Coleman, Bernard Gilbert and Harris Levine in equal shares,
but subsequently Coleman and Levine transferred to their
wives one-half of their interests. These five persons had
for some time been associated in the business of owning
and operating apartment houses. By the trust instrument, which recited a contemporaneous conveyance of the
property to themselves, they declared that the real estate
so conveyed, and any real estate thereafter acquired under
the trust, should be held by them in trust for the purposes
described, with the designation "Coleman-Gilbert Associates." The trust was to continue for fifteen years unless
sooner terminated by sale and distribution of the trust
estate. The trustees were to hold the property in order to
improve and dispose of it for the benefit of the persons
named as "cestuis que trustent and beneficiaries, and

HELVERING v. COLEMAN-GILBERT.
369

371

Opinion of the Court.

their respective representatives and assigns, devisees, or
legatees" in the shares provided in the instrument. Except as stated, the beneficiaries were to have pp interest
in the trust property, and "especially" they were to have
"no right to call for any partition thereof." The interests
of the beneficiaries were to be personal property, and the
death of any one or of all the beneficiaries was not to determine the trust nor entitle the legal representatives of
the decedent to an accounting by the trustees.
The trustees were to have the "full power and discretion" of absolute owners, with authority to invest and
reinvest the trust property, including its income, in mortgages or in obligations secured upon real estate, and "in
the purchase and improvement of real estate situated in
the cities or towns of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts." The trustees were authorized to sell at public or
private sale any part or all of the trust property upon
such terms as they might see fit, "to improve, to lease for
a term beyond the possible termination" of the trust, or
for any less term, "to hire for improvement or otherwise,
to let, to exchange, to release, to partition," to borrow
money, and to execute all necessary contracts. Funds in
the possession of the trustees, being "tle proceeds of sales
or otherwise," or net income, which was "not required in
their judgment for development or improvement of the
trust property," were to be divided and paid over annually, or oftener, if convenient, equally among the said
beneficiaries and their respective representatives and assigns in the proportions stated. The trustees were to have
no power to bind the beneficiaries personally, and the
trustees were to be responsible only for willful default
and breach of trust. There was also provision for the
resignation of trustees, and in case of death or resignation
of a trustee, the surviving trustees were to appoint successors, and if they failed to do so, the beneficiaries were to
have the right of appointment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

The Board of Tax Appeals found that the trust owned
and operated some twenty apartment houses, the gross
annual rents of which amounted to about $420,000.
There were approximately 1500 tenants. The gross cost
of the properties was about $3,000,000. Employees' payrolls amounted to about $25,000, and the operating expenses to about $300,000, annually. The trustees drew
no salary. Two of the male trustees devoted their entire
time to the management and a third trustee was also
actively engaged. An office force of three persons, besides
the three operating trustees, was required. to keep the
necessary financial records of the trust. There were no
"building managers" or superintendents. The trustees
supervised the maintenance of the trust properties, looking after their operating condition, collecting rents, ordering repairs, purchasing supplies, arranging loans and
supervising office details, securing new tenants, and generally operating the trust properties. The female trustees
were entirely inactive.
The Board of Tax Appeals summed up its findings by
saying: "These trustees, although they did not exercise
all of the powers given to them in the trust instrument,
were engaged, nevertheless, in carrying on a business for
profit in much the same manner as the directors of a corporation are associated together for the purpose of carrying on a business enterprise."
We think that the Board was right in its conclusion
that the trust constituted an association within the meaning of the revenue acts. The governing principles have
been discussed in Morrissey v. Commnissioner, supra, and
need not be restated. The small number of persons in
the trust now before us does not present a difference in
the legal aspect of their enterprise from the standpoint
of the statutory classification. A few persons, as well as
many, may form an association to conduct a business for
their common profit. Nor is the absence of provision for

HELVERING v. COLEMAN-GILBERT.
369

373

Opinion of the Court.

control by the beneficiaries, as such, determinative. The
fact that the enterprise was confined to dealings in real
property, its management and improvement, does not
prevent its being classified as an association. See Swanson v. Commissioner, ante, p. 362. The Circuit Court of
Appeals, while not questioning the sufficiency of the evidence to warrant the Board of Tax Appeals in finding
that the trustees were conducting a business enterprise
for the purpose of ensuring an income for the beneficiaries, and that the trustees may have exercised powers
in some respects as great as those of the directors of a
corporation, found a distinction in the procedure that had
been followed. There had been no meetings, no records,
and the acts of the. trustees were not determined by a
majority vote. The trustees had conducted the business
in the same manner as it had been conducted before the
trust was formed. We think that the court unduly emphasized the mere differences of formal procedure. If
such differences were to be made the test in determining
whether or not an enterprise for the transaction of business constitutes an association, the subject would be enveloped in a cloud of uncertainty, and enterprises of the
same essential character would be placed in different categories simply by reason of formal variations in mere procedural details. .The significant resemblance to the action
of directors does not lie in the formalities of meetings or
records but in the fact that, by virtue of the agreement
for the conduct of the business of a joint enterprise, the
parties have secured the centralized management of their
undertaking through designated representatives.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that weight
should be given to the purpose for which the trust was
organized, but that purpose is found in the agreement
of the parties. Not only were they actually engaged, as
the Board of Tax Appeals determined, in carrying on an
extensive business for profit, but the terms of the trust

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

instrument authorized a wide range of activities in the
purchase, improvement and sale of properties in the cities
and towns of the State. The parties are not at liberty to
say that their purpose was other or narrower than that
which they formally set forth in the instrument under
which their activities were conducted. Undoubtedly they
wished to avoid partition of the property of which they
had been co-owners, but their purpose as declared in their
agreement was much broader than that. They formed a
combination to conduct the business of holding, improving
and selling real estate, with provision for management
through representatives, with continuity which was not
to be disturbed by death or changes in ownership of
beneficial interests, and with limited liability. They had
been co-owners but they preferred to become "associates,"
and also not to become partners. Morrissey v. Commissioner, supra.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are reversed
and the orders of the Board of Tax Appeals are affirmed.
Reversed.
JOHN A. NELSON CO. v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 61.

Argued November 19, 20, 1935.-Decided December 16,
1935.

1. A corporation transferred substantially all of its property to another corporation in return for cash and the entire issue of preferred
stock of the transferee, the stock being without voting rights except
in case of default in payment of dividends; the transferor used
part of the cash received to retire its own preferred stock, and
distributed to its stockholders the remainder of the cash and the
preferred stock of the transferee; the transferor corporation did

