344

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U,S.

MORRISSEY ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 17.

Argued October 18, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.

1. Under Revenue Acts declaring that the term "corporation" shall
include "associations," the Treasury Department was authorized
to define the latter term by regulation and thereafter to clarify
or enlarge the definition in order to meet administrative exigencies
and conform with judicial decision. Pp. 349, 354.
2. Enactment of the Revenue Act of 1924, providing, as in previous Acts, that the term corporation shall include associations,
did not fix the definition of the term "association" then in the
regulations so that the Department could not further adapt it to
the administration of the Act. P. 355.
3. The view expressed by this Court in Hecht v. Malley, 265 U. S.
144, that the degree of control by the beneficiaries was not a
decisive test of whether a trust is an "association" and therefore subject to the special excise imposed on corporations (defined as including "associations") by the Revenue Act of 1918,
is applicable also to general income taxes laid by the Revenue
Acts upon corporations and thus upon associations. P. 355.
4. Regulations of the Treasury Department adopting this view,
under the Revenue Act of 1924, held not in excess of its authority.
P. 355.
5. Revision of the Treasury Regulations defining the term "associations" in the Revenue Act of 1924, was in effect approved by
Congress in subsequent Revenue Acts through the rchactment,
without substantial change, of the provision so construed by the
Department. P. 355.
6. Congress has power to tax as a corporation an unincorporated
association in the form of a trust which transacts its business as
if it were incorporated. P. 356.
7. Whether a trust may be classed and taxed as an "association,"
under the Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926, which define the term
corporations as including "associations," joint stock companies
and insurance companies, is not dependent on its having a
statutory organization or statutory privileges, or upon its use
of corporate forms of procedure. Its trustees may perform the

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Syllabus.

functions performed in corporations by officers and directors, and
provisions of the trust instrument may take the place of by-laws.
P. 357.
8. To constitute a trust an "association" within the meaning of
these Acts, it is not essential that the beneficiaries should have
such control as is commonly exercised by stockholders or that
they should hold meetings to elect representatives. P. 358.
9. While the faculty of transferring the interests of members without affecting the continuity of the enterprise may be deemed to be
characteristic, the test of such an "association" is not to be found
in the formal evidence of interests or in a particular method of
transfer. P. 358.
10. A trust designed, not for the purpose of holding and conserving
particular property with incidental powers in the trustees, as in
the traditional type of trusts, but as a medium for the conduct
of a joint business enterprise and a sharing of the gains, is to be
classed as an "association" within the meaning of the Revenue
Acts, supra, when the following attributes, analagous to those of
corporate organizations, are present: (1) title to property embarked
in the enterprise held by trustees, as a continuing body, during
the existence of trust; (2) centralized management by trustees,
as representatives of beneficial owners, whether selected by or
with the advice of beneficiaries or designated in the trust instrument with power to select successors; (3) continuity uninterrupted
by deaths among beneficial owners; (4) means for transfer of
beneficial interests and introducing new participants without
affecting continuity; (5) limitation of personal liability of participants to property embarked in the undertaking. P. 359.
11. A trust was created to develop a tract of land through construction and operation of golf courses, club houses, etc., and for the
conduct of incidental businesses, with broad powers for the purchase, operation and sale of properties; the management and control were vested in the trustees; and the interests of the beneficiaries were represented by transferable common and preferred
shares. Held:
(1) That the trust constituted an "association." P. 360.
(2) That sale of part of the property before the beginning of
the tax years in question and conveyance of the remainder to a
corporation in exchange for its shares, did not alter its character,
since it remained an organization for profit with profits still coming
in, and the powers of the trustees continued. P. 360.
(3) The character of the trust is revealed by the terms of the
trust instrument. P. 361.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296'U.S.

12. Section 704 (a), Revenue Act, 1928, providing that a taxpayer
filing a return as a trust for a taxable year prior to'1925 shall be
taxable as a trust, and not as a corporation, if under requlations
or departmental rulings in force at time of filing the return it was
considered to be so taxable,-held inapplicable to a return for the
year 1924 filed after the adoption of Treasury Regulations No. 65,
Art. 1504, amending prior regulations so as to' provide that operating trusts in which the trustees were not restricted' to the mere
collection of funds and their payment to 'beneficiariey, but were
associated together in much the same manner as directors in a corporation, for the purpose of carrying 'on a business enterprise,
should be deemed to be associations, regardless of the control exercised by the beneficiaries. P. 361.
74 F. (2d) 803, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 725, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained
income taxes laid upon a trust as an association.

Mr. Theodore B. Benson, with whom Mr. Charles
Francis Cocke was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. James W. Morris, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Miss
Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, Mr. Claude A. Hope filed a brief as
amicus curiae on the question of what constitutes an
"association" within the meaning of the Revenue Acts.
Mr. John Ross Delafield was with him on the brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioners, the trustees of an express trust, contest income taxes for the years 1924 to 1926, inclusive, upon the
ground that the trust has been illegally treated as an "association." The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, which sustained
the ruling of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. 74

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Opinion of the Court.

F. (2d) 803. We granted certiorari because of a conflict of
decisions as 'to the distinction between an "association"
and a "pure trust," the decisions being described in one
of the cases as "seemingly in a hopeless state of confusion." Coleman-Gilbert Associates v. Commissioner,
76 F. (2d) 191, 193.1
. The facts were stipulated. In the year 1921 petitioners
made a declaration of trust of real estate in Los Angeles.
They were to be designated in "their collective capacity "
as "Western Avenue Golf Club." The trustees were
authorized to add to their number and to choose their successors; to purchase, encumber, sell, lease and operate the
"described or other lands "; to construct and operate golf
courses, club houses, etc.; to receive the rents, profits and
income; to make loans and investments; to make regulations; and generally to manage the trust estate as if the
trustees were its absolute owners. The trustees were declared to be without power to bind the beneficiaries personally by "any act, neglect or default," and the beneficiaries and all persons dealing with the trustees were
required to look for payment or indemnity to the trust
property. The beneficial interests were to be evidenced
solely by transferable certificates for shares which were
divided into 2,000 preferred shares of the par value of
$100 each, and 2,000 common shares of no par value, and
the rights of the respective shareholders in the surplus,
profits, and capital assets were defined. "Share ledgers"
showing the names and addresses of shareholders were to
be kept.
The trustees might convene the shareholders in meeting
for the purpose of making reports or considering recommendations, but the votes of the shareholders were to be
advisory only. The death of a trustee or of a beneficiary was not to end the trust, which was to continue
'Post, p. 369, Nos. 78-79.

See, also, post, pp. 362, 365, No. 108,

Swanson v. Commissioner, and No. 238, Helvering v. Combs.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

for twenty-five years unless sooner terminated by the
trustees.
During the years 1921 and 1922, the trustees sold beneficial interests and paid commissions on the sales. About
42 acres (of the 155 acres described by the declaration of
trust) were plotted into lots which were sold during the
years 1921 to 1923, most of the sales being on the installment basis. On the remaining property a golf course and
club house were constructed, and in 1923 this property
with the improvements was conveyed to Western Avenue
Golf Club, Inc., a California corporation, in exchange for
its stock. Under a lease from the corporation petitioners
continued the operation of the golf course until January
12, 1924. ' After that date petitioners' activities were confined to collections of installments of principal and interest on contracts of purchase, the receipt of interest on
bank balances and of fees on assignments by holders of
purchase contracts, the execution of conveyances to purchasers, the receipt of dividends from the incorporated
club, and the distribution of moneys to the holders of
beneficial interests. On December 31, 1923, the total
number of outstanding beneficial interests was 3016, held
by 920 persons; by December 31, 1926, the number of
interests had been gradually decreased to' 2172, held by
275 persons. The holdings by the trustees ranged approximately from 16 to 29 per cent.
Petitioners contend that they are trustees "of property
held in trust," within § 219 of the Revenue Acts of 1924
and 1926,2 and are taxable accordingly and not as an
"association."
They urge that, to constitute an association, the applicable test requires "a quasi-corporate organization in which the beneficiaries, whether or not dertificate holders, have some voice in the management and
some control over the trustees and have an opportunity
'43 Stat. 275; 44 Stat. 32.

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Opinion of the Court.

to exercise such control through the right to vote at meetings "; and that; in any event, the activities in which
petitioners were engaged, during the tax years under
consideration, did not constitute "a carrying on of

business" within the rule applied by this Court.
The Government insists that the distinction between
associations and the trusts taxed under § 219 is between

"business trusts on the one side" and other trusts " which
are engaged merely in collecting the income and conserving the property against the day when it is to be distributed to the beneficiaries "; that Congress intended that
all "business trusts" should be taxed as associations.
1. The Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926 provided:
"The term 'corporation' includes associations, jointstock companies, and insurance companies." 1924, § 2
(a) (2); 1926, § 2 (a) (2).'
A similar definition is found in the earlier Revenue
Acts of 1917, § 200, 1918, § 1, and 1921, § 2 (2),' and also
in the later Acts of 1928, § 701 (a) (2), 1932, § 1111 (a)
(2), and 1934, § 801 (a) (2).'
The Corporation Tax Act of 1909,' which imposed an
excise tax upon the privilege of doing business in a corporate capacity, embraced associations having-a capital
stock represented by shares and "organized under the laws
of the, United States or of any State or Territory."
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 144; Eliot v.
Freeman, 220 U. S. 178, 186.

The Income Tax Act of

1913,1 taxed the net income of "every corporation, jointstock company or association, and every insurance company, organized in the United States, no matter how cre'43
'40
'45
'36
'38

Stat. 253; 44 Stat. 9.
Stat. 302; 40 Stat. 1058; 42 Stat. 227.
Stat. 878; 47 Stat. 289; 48 Stat. 771.
Stat. 112.
Stat. 172.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

ated or organized, not including partnerships.' The case
of Crocker v. Malley, 249 U. S. 223, arose under the latter Act. The Court found that the declaration of trust
in that case, relating to mill property was on its face
"an ordinary real estate trust of the kind familiar in
Massachusetts," and that the function of the trustees
was "not to manage the mills but simply to collect the
rents and income of such property as may be in their
hands, with a large discretion in the application of it, but
with a recognition that the receipt holders are entitled
to it subject to the exercise of the powers confided to the
trustees." The Court thought that, if it were assumed
that the words " no matter how created or organized"
applied to "association," still it would be "a wide departure from normal usage" to call. the beneficiaries a
joint-stock association when they were not partners and
had "no joint action or interest and no control over the
fund." Nor could the trustees "by themselves" be
treated as a joint-stock association within the meaning
of the Act "unless all trustees with discretionary powers
are such." Id., pp. 232-234.
The decision in Crocker v. Malley was rendered in
March, 1919, and the Treasury Department thereupon
assumed that the degree of control exercised by the beneficiaries over the management of the trust was determinative of the question whether the trust constituted an
"association." See statement of the rulings of the Bureau by the Board of Tax Appeals in Woodrow Lee Trust
v. Commissioner, 17 B. T. A., pp. 111, 112. It was in that
view, that the Regulations under the Revenue Acts of
1918 and 1921, in distinguishing an " association" from
a" trust," provided as follows:
"If, however, the cestuis que trust have a voice in the
conduct of the business of the trust, whether through the
right periodically to elect trustees or otherwise, the trust

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Opinion of the Court.

is an association within the meaning of the statute." Regulations Nos. 45, 62, Art. 1504.
This ruling continued until our decision in May, 1924,
in Hecht v. Malley, 265 U. S. 144, and furnished the test
which the Board of Tax Appeals applied in its determinations for earlier years.' Accordingly, the Board in the
case now before us, holding that under the trust instrument the shareholders" had no control over the trustees or
the management of the business," determined that the
trust was taxable as such and not as an association, for the
years 1921, 1922 and 1923.
The case of Hecht v.Malley related to the excise taxes
imposed upon "associations" by the Revenue Acts of
1916, § 407, and 1918, § 1000 (a).' The provision of the
Act of 1916 retained the qualifying words of the Corporation Tax Act of 1909-" organized under the laws of the
United States, or any State or Territory "-and the Court
followed the coistruction placed upon those words in
Eliot v.Freeman, supra. But the Act of 1918 omitted this
qualification, and the excise tax as laid upon corporations
applied to "associations" under the general definition.
The Court thus found the terms of the Act of 1918 to be
in significant contrast to the provisions of the Acts of 1909
and 1916. The omission of the qualification showed the
intention of Congress "to exterid the tax from one imposed solely upon organizations exercising statutory privileges, as theretofore, to include also organizations exercising the privilege of doing business as associations at the
common law." 265 U. S.p. 155. Shorn of the restriction, the word "association" appeared to be used in its
'E. A. Landreth Co., 15 B. T. A. 655; Van Cleave Trust, 18 B.

T. A. 486; Commercial Trust Co., 18 B. T. A. 1248; Rollin S.
Sturgeon et al., Trustees, 25 B. T. A. 368; Twin Bell 'Oil Syndicate,
26 B. T. A. 165.
'39 Stat. 789; 40 Stat. 1126.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

ordinary meaning, and we referred to several definitions
found in standard dictionaries, as, e. g., "a body of per-:
sons united without a charter, but upon the methods and
forms used by incorporated bodies for the prosecution of
some common enterprise "; "a body of persons organized
for the prosecution of some purpose, without a charter,
but having the general form and mode of procedure of a
corporation "; "an organized but unchartered body analogous to but distinguished from a corporation." Id., p.
157. We expressed the view that the word "association,"
as used in the excise tax provision of the Revenue Act of
1918, clearly included "Massachusetts trusts," of the sort
there involved, "having quasi-corporate organizations
under which they are engaged in carrying on business enterprises." We were careful to say that it was then unnecessary to determine" what other form of ' associations,'
if any," the Act embraced. Id.
In the Hecht case, the trustees of the Hecht and Haymarket trusts relied strongly upon the decision in Crocker
v. Malley as conclusively determining that those trusts
could not be held to be associations, unless the trust agreements vested "the shareholders with such control over
the trustees as to constitute them more than strict trusts
within the Massachusetts rule." Reviewing the reasoning
of that decision, we pointed out that it was not authority
for the broad proposition advanced. We concluded that,
when the nature of the trusts was considered, as the petitioners were "not merely trustees for collecting funds and
paying them over," but were "associated together in
much the same manner as the directors in a corporation
for the purpose of carrying on business enterprises," the
trusts were to be deemed associations within the meaning
of the Act of 1918. This was true "independently of the
large measure of control exercised by the beneficiaries."
And we rejected the view that Congress intended that
organizations of that character "should be exempt from

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Opinion of the Court.

the excise tax on the privilege of carrying on their business merely because such a slight measure of control may
be vested in the b;eneficiaries that they might be deemed
strict trusts within the rule established by the Massachusetts courts."
Following this decision, the Treasury Department
amended its regulation so as to provide that the distinction between an association and a trust should no longer
depend upon beneficiary control. The new provision
read:
"Operating trusts, whether or not of the Massachusetts
type, in which the trustees are not restricted to the mere
collection of funds and their payment to the beneficiaries,
but are associated together in much the same manner as
directors in a corporation for the purpose of carrying on
some business enterprise, are to be deemed a-s:ociations
within the meaning of the Act, regardless of the control
exercised by the beneficiaries." Regulations No. 65, Art.
1504, issued in October, 1924, under the Revenue Act of
that year.
This provision was amended in August, 1925, so as to
read as follows:
"If, however, the beneficiaries have positive control
over the trust, whether through the right periodically to
elect trustees or otherwise, an association exists within
the meaning of section 2. Even in the absence of any
control by the beneficiaries, where the trustees are not
restricted to the mere collection of funds and their payment to the beneficiaries, but are associated together with
similar or greater powers than the directors in a corporation for the purpose of carrying on some business enterprise, the trust is an association within the meaning of
the statute." T. D. 3748, IV-2 Cumulative Bulletin 7.
The text of the regulations relating to associations, so
far as pertinent here, promulgated under the Act of 1924,
is set forth in the margin. Regulations No. 65, Arts. 1502,
33682 *-36

23

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

1504, as amended." These regulations were continued
substantially unchanged under the Revenue Acts of 1926.
and 1928. No. 69, Arts. 1502, 1504; No. 74, Arts. 1312,
1314. The corresponding regulations under the Act of
1932 were somewhat modified, No. 77, Art. 1314; and
these were considerably expanded by the regulations
issued under the Act of 1934, No. 86, Art. 801-2, 801-3.
2. As the statute merely provided that the term "corporation" should include "associations," without further
definition, the Treasury Department was authorized to
supply rules for the enforcement of the Act within the
10.Art. 1502. Association.-Associations and joint-stock companies

include associations, common law trusts, and organizations by whatever name known, which act or do business in an organized capacity,
whether created under and pursuant to state laws, agreements, declarations of trust, or otherwise, the net income of which, if any, is
distributed or distributable among the shareholders on the basis of
the capital stock which each holds, or, where there is no capital
stock, on the basis of the proportionate share or capital which each
has or has invested in the business or property of the organization ... "
"Art. 1504. Association distinguished from trust.-Where trustees
merely hold property for the collection of the income and its distribution among the beneficiaries of the trust, and are not engaged,
either by themselves or in connection with the bqneficiaries, in the
carrying on of any business, and the beneficiaries have no control
over the trust although their consent may be required for the filling
of a vacancy among the trustees or for a modification of the terms
of the trust, no association exists, and the trust and the beneficiaries
thereof will be subject to tax as provided by section 219 and by
articles 341-347. If, however, the beneficiaries have positive control
over the trust, whether through the right periodically to elect trustees
or otherwise, an association exists within the meaning of section 2.
Even in the absence of any control by the beneficiaries, where the
trustees are not restricted to the mere collection of funds and their
payment to the beneficiaries, but are associated together with similar
or greater powers than the directors in a corporation for the purpose
of carrying on some business enterprise, the trust is an association
within the meaning of the statute,"

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Opinion of the Court.

permissible bounds of administrative construction. Nor
can this authority be deemed to be so restricted that the
regulations, once issued, could not later be clarified or enlarged so as to meet administrative exigencies or conform
to judicial decision. Compare Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet,
287 U. S.299, 303-307. We find no ground for the contention that by the enactment of the Revenue Act of
1924 the Department was limited to its previous regulations as to associations. And, while the case of Hecht v.
Malley was concerned with the special excise tax provision of the Revenue Act of 1918, the ruling of the Court
that the degree of the control by beneficiaries was not a
decisive test in that relation could by similar reasoning
be applied to the general income taxes laid by the revenue acts upon corporations and thus upon associations.
These general income taxes covered both those taxes
which in their nature were excise taxes on business, and
as such could have been laid prior to the Sixteenth
Amendment, and those taxes on other income which
were permitted by that Amendment. Stanton v. Baltic
Mining Co., 240 U. S.103, 107, 114. We think that the
Department did not exceed its powers ifirewriting its
regulation, in the light of the decision in Hecht v. Malley,
so as to provide with respect to the income taxes, in general, to be paid by associations, that the extent or lack of
control by the beneficiaries of a trust should not in itself
determine whether there was an association within the
meaning of the statute. That the revised regulation had
congressional approval is persuasively evidenced by the
fact that the regulation, as amended in 1925, was continued without substantial alteration until 1933, and meanwhile Congress reenacted without change the general provision as to associations in the Revenue Acts of 1926, 1928,
and 1932. See Brewster v. Gage, 280 U. S. 327, 337;
McCaughn v. Hershey Chocolate Co., 283 U. S.488, 492;

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, supra; Helvering v. Bliss, 293
U. S. 144, 151.
The question is not one of the power of Congress to
impose this tax upon petitioners but is simply one of
statutory construction,-whether Congress has imposed it.
See Burk-Waggoner Oil Assn. v. Hopkins, 269 U. S. 110,
114. The difficulty with the regulations as an exposition
was that they themselves required explication; that they
left many questions open with respect both to their application to particular enterprises and to their validity as
applied. The so-called "control test" had led to much
litigation, and the change in the regulations after the decision in Hecht v. Malley caused increased uncertainty.
That situation is put in a strong light by the action of
Congress, in order to afford relief to taxpayers, in enacting
§ 704 of the Revenue Act of 1928 as a "retroactive" provision applicable, as stated, to trust returns which had
been filed for a taxable year prior to 1925 under previous
regulations and rulings, and also by giving an option to a
trustee, in specified circumstances, in relation to the Revenue Act of 1926 and prior Acts." While it is impossible
in the nature of things to translate the statutory concept
of "association" into a particularity of detail that would
fix the status of every sort of enterprise or organization
which ingenuity may create, the recurring disputes emphasize the need of a further examination of the congressional intent.
3. "Association" implies associates. It implies the entering into a joint enterprise, and, as the applicable regulation imports, an enterprise for the transaction of business. This is not the characteristic of an ordinary trustwhether created by will, deed, or declaration-by which
particular property is conveyed to a trustee or is to be
held by the settlor, on specified trusts, for the benefit of
' 45 Stat. 880.

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Opinion of the Court.

named or described persons. Such beneficiaries do not
ordinarily, and as mere cestuis que trustent, plan a common effort or enter into a combination for the conduct of a
business enterprise. Undoubtedly the terms of an association may make the taking or acquiring of shares or interests sufficient to constitute participation, and may leave
the management, or even control of the enterprise, to
designated persons. But the nature and purpose of the
co~perative undertaking will differentiate it from an ordinary trust. In what are called "business trusts" the object is not to hold and conserve particular property, with
incidental powers, as in the traditional type of trusts, but
to provide a medium for the conduct of a business and
sharing its gains. Thus a trust may be created as a convenient method by which persons become associated for
dealings in real estate, the development of tracts of land,
the construction of improvements, and the purchase, management and sale of properties; or for dealings in securities or other personal property; or for the production, or
manufacture, and sale of commodities; or for commerce,
or other sorts of business; where those who become beneficially interested, either by joining in the plan at the
outset, or by later participation according to the terms of
the arrangement, seek to share the advantages of a union
of their interests in the common enterprise.
The Government contends that such an organized community of effort for the doing of business presents the
essential features of an association. Petitioners stress the
significance of, and the limitations said to be implied in,
the provision classifying associations with corporations.
4. The inclusion of associations with corporations implies resemblance; but it is resemblance and not identity.
The resemblance points to features distinguishing associations from partnerships as well as from orainary trusts.
As we have seen, the classification cannot be said to require organization under a statute, or with statutory priv-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

ileges. The term embraces associations as they may exist
at common law. Hecht v. Malley, supra. We have already referred to the definitions, quoted in that case, showing the ordinary meaning of the term as applicable to a
body of persons united without a charter "but upon the
methods and forms used by incorporated bodies for the
prosecution of some common enterprise." These definitions, while helpful, are not to be pressed so far as to
make mere formal procedure a controlling test. The provision itself negatives such a construction. Thus unincorporated joint-stock companies have generally been
regarded as bearing the closest resemblance to corporations. But, in the revenue acts, associations are mentioned separately and are not to be treated as limited to
"joint-stock companies," although belonging to the same
group. While the use of corporate forms may furnish
persuasive evidence of the existence of an association, the
absence of particular forms, or of the usual terminology
of corporations, cannot be regarded as decisive. Thus an
association may not have "directors" or "officers," but
the "trustees" may function "in much the same manner
as the directors in a corporation" for the purpose of carrying on the enterprise. The regulatory provisions of the
trust instrument may take the place of "by-laws." And
as there may be, under the reasoning in the Hecht case,
an absence of control by beneficiaries such as is commonly
exercised by stockholders in a business corporation, it cannot be considered to be essential to the existence of an
association that those beneficially interested should hold
meetings or elect their representatives. Again, while the
faculty of transferring the interests of members without
affecting the continuity of the enterprise may be deemed
to be characteristic, the test of an association is not to be
found in the mere formal evidence of interests or in a particular method of transfer.

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

Opinion of the Court.

What, then, are the salient features of a trust-when
created and maintained as a medium for the carrying on
of a business enterprise and sharing its gains-which
may be regarded as making it analogous to a corporate
organization? A corporation, as an entity, holds the title
to the property embarked in the corporate undertaking.
Trustees, as a continuing body with provision for succession, may afford a corresponding advantage during the
existence of the trust. Corporate organization furnishes
the opportunity for a centralized management through
representatives of the members of the corporation. The
designation of trustees, who are charged with the conduct
of an enterprise,-who act " in much the same manner as
directors "-may provide a similar scheme, with corresponding effectiveness. Whether the trustees are
named in the trust instrument with power to select successors, so as to constitute a self-perpetuating body, or
are selected by, or with the advice of, those beneficially
interested in the undertaking, centralization of management analogous to that of corporate activities may be
achieved. An enterprise carried on by means of a trust
may be secure from termination or interruption by the
death of owners of beneficial interests and in this respect
their interests are distinguished from those of partners
and are akin to the interests of members of a corporation.
And the trust type of organization facilitates, as does
corporate organization, the transfer of beneficial interests
without affecting the continuity of the enterprise, and
also the introduction of large numbers of participants.

The trust method also permits the limitation of the personal liability of participants to the property embarked in
the undertaking.
It is no answer to say that these advantages flow from
the very nature of trusts. For the question has arisen
because of the use and adaptation of the trust mechanism,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

The suggestion ignores the postulate that we are considering those trusts which have the distinctive feature of
being created to enable the participants to carry on a
business and divide the gains which accrue from their
common undertaking,-trusts that thus satisfy the primary conception of association and have the attributes to
which we have referred, distinguishing them from partnerships. In such a case, we think that these attributes
make the trust sufficiently analogous to corporate organization to justify the conclusion that Congress intended
that the income of the enterprise should be taxed in the
same manner as that of corporations.
5. Applying these principles to the instant case, we are
of the opinion that the trust constituted an association.
The trust was created for the development of a tract of
land through the construction and operation of golf
courses, club houses, etc. and the conduct of incidental
businesses, with broad powers for the purchase, operation
and sale of properties. Provision was made for the issue
of shares of beneficial interests, with described rights and
priorities. There were to be preferred shares of the value
of $100 each and common shares of no par value. Thus
those who took beneficial interests became shareholders in
the common undertaking to be conducted for their profit
according to the terms of the arrangement. They were
not the less associated in that undertaking because the
arrangement vested the management and control in the
trustees. And the contemplated development, of the tract
of land held )t the outset, even if other properties were
not acquired, involved what was essentially a business
enterprise. The arrangement provided for centralized
control, continuity, and limited liability, and the analogy
to corporate organization was carried still further by the
provision for the issue of transferable certificates.
Under the trust, a considerable portion of the property
was surveyed and subdivided into lots, which were sold

MORRISSEY v. COMMISSIONER.
344

-

Opinion of the Court.

and, to facilitate the sales, the subdivided property was
improved by the construction of streets, sidewalks and
curbs. The fact that these sales were made before the
beginning of the tax years here in question, and that the
remaining property was conveyed to a corporation in
exchange for its stock, did not alter the character of the
organization. Its character was determined by the terms
of the trust instrument. It was not a liquidating trust;
it was still an organization for profit, and the profits were
still coming in. The powers conferred on the trustees continued and could be exercised for such activities as the
instrument authorized.
6. Petitioners contend that the trust was not taxable as
an association, by reason of the retroactive provisions of
§ 704 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928.12 The contention
is plainly unavailing and does not require an extended
discussion. Section 704 (a) of the Act of 1928 provides,
in substance, that where a taxpayer filed a return as a
trust for a taxable year prior to 1925, the taxpayer shall
be taxable as a trust, and not as a corporation, if the taxpayer was considered to be so taxable either (1) under
the regulations in force at the time the return was made,
or (2) under a departmental ruling then applicable and
in force. Prior to the time for filing petitioners' return
for the year 1924 the regulations had been amended, following the decision in Hecht v. Malley, supra, so as to
provide that operating trusts in which the trustees were
not restricted to the mere collection of funds and their
payment to beneficiaries, but were associated together in
much the same manner as directors in a corporation for
the purpose of carrying on a business enterprise, should
be deemed to be associations, regardless of the control exercised by the beneficiaries. Treasury Regulations No. 65,
Art. 1504, October, 1924. It does not appear that there
1245

Stat. 880.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

296 U.S.

were regulations or rulings in force, at the time of the
return for the taxable year 1924, under which the trust in
this instance would be taxable as a trust and not as an
association.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
SWANSON

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 108.

Argued November 21, 22, 1935.-Decided December 16,
1935.

1. A trust formed by the owners of an apartment house under an
agreement conveying title to trustees and providing complete power
in them to manage, control, sell, etc.; with shares of beneficiaries
represented by transferable "receipts," to be registered; with limited liability and succession and continuity during the trust period,-held taxable as an "association," under the Revenue Act of
1926. Morrissey v. Commissioner, ante, p. 344. P. 363.
2. The limited number of actual beneficiaries and the fact that the
operations did not extend beyond the real property first acquired
did not alter the nature and purpose of the common undertaking.
P. 365.
76 F. (2d) 651, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review the affirmance of a decision of
the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained a tax assessed
on the income of a trust as an association.
Mr. Arnold R. Baar for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Solicitor
General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and
Miss Helen R. Carloss were on the brief, for respondent.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

