HELVERING v. HELMHOLZ.

93

Statement of the Case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. HELMHOLZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 14.

Argued October 15, 16, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. Members of a family-the two parents and their childrentransferred the stock of the family corporation under a trust
instrument, which provided for paying the net dividends to them
and their issue during the existence of the trust, and for disposition of the shares upon its termination. The trust was to terminate
(1) If the parents had died, upon the death of their last surviving grandchild; or (2) upon delivery to the trustee of a writing,
signed by all of the then beneficiaries, declaring it at an end;
or (3) upon unanimous vote of the directors of the corporation,
so declaring; or (4) if the corporation were dissolved for any cause
provided by law; and upon the happening of any of these events,
the stock was to be distributed among the beneficiaries then entitled
to receive the dividends. Upon the extinction of the issue of the
parents, they being then also dead, the stock was to be turned over
to a charitable trust. Held, that none of these provisions for termination of the trust was a power to "alter, amend or revoke" the
transfer within the meaning of the Revenue Act of 1926, § 302 (d).
P. 96.
2. A provision in a trust indenture that the trust shall terminate
when all beneficiaries join in so declaring, merely expresses a,
condition which the law itself imposes; this is not a power "to
alter, amend or revoke," within the meaning of § 302 (d), Revenue
Act, 1926. P. 97.
3. Section 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1926 would violate the
Fifth Amendment if applied to a transfer in trust, made before
its enactment, which was complete when made, and which left no
power in the grantor to revoke, alter or amend without the consent
of other beneficiaries of the trust. P. 98.
75 F. (2d) 245, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 724, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 28 B. T. A. 165,
disapproving an increase of estate tax assessment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr
Sewall Key were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James Quarles, with whom Messrs. Louis Quarles
and James T. Guy were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case, like Helvering v. City Bank &c. Tr. Co.,
ante, p. 85, arises under § 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1926. The respondent is administrator and sole beneficiary of the estate of his wife, Irene C. Helmholz. In
1918 she, her father and mother and her brothers and
sisters joined in an indenture conveying to a trustee all
of the shares of stock in the Patrick Cudahy Family
Company. Her contribution was 999 shares, the dividends from which the trustee was to receive, and pay,
less expenses, to Mrs. Helmholz for life, remainder to her
appointee by will and remainder to her issue; and in event
she or any other subscriber should die without issue the
net dividends on the stock delivered to the trustee by such
decedent- were to be paid "to the surviving subscribers
or their issue living at the time of distribution proportionately by right of representation."
The paragraph of the indenture relative to the termination of the trust is:
"Fifth: The term of the primary trust hereby created
shall end (1) upon the death of the last surviving grandchild of Patrick and Anna M. Cudahy, they being then
deceased, or (2) upon delivery to the said trustee of a
written instrument signed by all of the then beneficiaries,
other than testamentary appointees, declaring said trust
term at an end, or (3) upon delivery to said trustee of a
copy (certified by the president or secretary of the Patrick

HELVERING v. HELMHOLZ.
93

Opinion of the Court.

Cudahy Family Company and under its corporate seal) of
a 'resolution adopted by unanimous vote of the board of
directors of said corporation declaring said trust term at
an end, whereupon and in either of said events the said
trustee shall distribute the capital stock of said the Patiick Cudahy Family Company to the beneficiaries then
entitled to receive the net dividends thereof other than
testamentary appointees; excepting the shares to the
dividends upon which such testamentary appointees are
entitled, which shall be held by said trustee as hereinbefore provided.
"The term of the primary trust hereby created shall also
terminate upon the dissolution of said the Patrick Cudahy
Family Company in the manner and for any of the causes
provided by law, whereupon the trustee shall distribute
all the proceeds and assets by it received upon the liquidation of said corporation to the beneficiaries other than
testamentaiy appointees then entitled to receive net dividends or income in the proportion in which they are
severally entitled, excepting the proceeds and (or) assets
of shares to the net dividends or income upon which testamentary appointees are entitled, which shall continue to
be held in trust as hereinbefore provided.
"The term of the primary trust hereby created shall also
terminate upon the extinction of issue of the said Patrick
and Anna M. Cudahy, they being then deceased, whereupon the said trustee shall convey and transfer the stock
of said the Patrick Cudahy Family Company to the Wisconsin Trust Company as trustee, to have and to hold the
same upon the trusts and for the uses and purposes embraced in a certain resolution or declaration of trust
adopted by the board of directors of the Wisconsin Trust
Company May 24, 1915, establishing a certain community
trust known as the Milwaukee Foundation for administration and distribution as in said trust declaration pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

96

Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

scribed and defined, subject, however, to any existing
valid testamentary appointments made by subscribers:
hereto as hereinbefore provided."
Irene C. Helmholz left a will bequeathing all her property to respondent. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin
held this a valid exercise of her power of appointment
under the trust deed. [First Wisconsin Trust Co. v.
Helmholz, 198 Wis. 573; 225 N. W. 181.] The petitioner
determined that the value of the 999 shares should be
included in her gross estate. The Board of Tax Appeals
rtversed this determination.1 The United States Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia, to which an appeal was taken pursuant to stipulation for hearing by that
court, affirmed the Board.2 We granted certiorari.
What is said in Helvering v. City Bank &c Tr. Co.,
supra, shows that the transfer was complete when the
trust was created in 1918. The features which differentiate this case are the absence of a reserved power of
revocation or alteration and the retroactive operation of
the Act. Either requires -a decision that the corpus of
the trust may not be-included in the gross estate.
The words of § 302 (d) are, "where the enjoyment [of
the transfer] was subject at the date of his death to any
change through the exercise of a power, either by the decedent alone or in conjunction with any person, to alter,
amend or revoke . . ."

The'-agreement under considera-

tion contains no such power as that described. Like every
well drawn instrument it embodies provisions for the termination of the trust. An examination of paragraph
Fifth shows that these were, in the main, such as any farsighted settlor would. employ. Since the beneficiaries
were the issue of Patrick and Anna Cudahy it was natural
to provide that upon the extinction of issue the trust
28 B. T. A. 165.
App. D. C. 114; 75 F. (2d) 245.

264

HELVERING v. HELMHOLZ.
93

Opinion of the Court.

should terminate and the principal be turned over to a
secondary charitable trust. Inasmuch as the corpus comprised only the shares of a corporation there was nothing
out of the ordinary in requiring that the trust terminate
upon dissolution of the company and that the proceeds of
liquidation be distributed amongst the then beneficiaries.
It was not unnatural to direct that the trust should end if
the managers of the company should unanimously so decide. And termination upon the death of the last surviving grandchild of Patrick and Anna Cudahy, they being
then deceased, is certainly not unusual.
The petitioner, however, pitches upon the only remaining event of termination, asserting it to be the equivalent
of a power to revoke, or to amend, to be exercised by the
settlor with others. This is found in the clause providing
that the delivery to the trustee of a writing signed by all
the then beneficiaries (other than, testamentary appointees) declaring such purpose, shall be effective to end
the trust. He points out that such a writing might have
been executed by Mrs. Helmholz and her co-beneficiaries
while she was alive, with the effect of revesting in her the
shares which she had delivered into the trust. This argument overlooks the essential difference between a power
to revoke, alter or amend, and a condition which the law
imposes. The general rule is that all parties in interest
may terminate the trust.' The clause in question added
nothing to the rights which the law conferred. Congress
cannot tax as a transfer intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at the death of the settlor a trust
created in a state whose law permits all the beneficiaries
to terminate the trust.
Another and more serious objection to the application
of § 302 (d) in the present instance is its retroactive oper3 Restatement of the Law of Trusts, §§ 337, 338. We are referred
to no authorit' to the contrary in Wisconsin, the place of the transaction.
33682*--36-7

98

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
296 U. S.

Syllabus.

ation. The transfer was complete at the time of the creation of the trust. There remained no interest in the
grantor. She reservedno power in herself alone to revoke,
to alter or to amend. Under the revenue act then in force
the transfer was not taxable as intended to take effect in
possession or in enjoyment at her death. Reinecke v.
Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339. If § 302 (d) of the
Act of 1926 could fairly be considered as intended to
apply in-the instant case its operation would violate the
Fifth Aiendment. Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR.
JUSTICE CARDOZO concur in the result on the ground last
stated in the opinion.

WHITE, FORMER

COLLECTOR

REVENUE, v. POOR

ET AL.,

OF INTERNAL

EXECUTORS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 36. Argued Ocober 16, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.
Decedent, in her lifetime, conveyed property to herself and two others
as trustees upoi a trust which was terminable by joint action of
the three trustees but which she, herself, reserved no power to
modify. She resigned as trustee; but later, upon the resignation
of her successor, was reappointed under a clause of the trust
instrunent providing that such vacancies could be filled by the
other trustees with the approval of the beneficiaries. Held:
1. That the power thus acquired to participate in terminating
the trust, not being in any sense a power reserved by her in the
trust -instrument, was not a power "to alter, amend or revoke,"
within the meaning of § 302 (d), Revenue Act, 1926. P. 101.
2. If that section, enacted after the date of the transfer, were
deemed applicable, it would violate the Fifth Amendment. Helvering v. Helmholz, ante, p. 93. P. 102.
75 F. (2d)- 35, affirmed.

