CLYDE MALLORY LINES v. ALABAMA.
259

261

Syllabus.

from any matter capable of floating, at places not less
than 10 miles from any shore, is not a violation of the
decree, or (2) in the alternative, why this Court should
not modify the decree so as to permit defendafit to dump
non-floating sewage sludge as aforesaid.
The Court ordered that a rule issue requiring plaintiff
to show cause why leave to file the petition should not
be granted. November 15, 1935, plaintiff by its return
consented to the filing of defendant's petition. And at
the same time plaintiff filed its motion for the appointment of a special master with power to summon witnesses, to take testimony, "to make findings of fact and
conclusions of law, respecting the allegations of the petition, and to submit the same to the Court with his recommendations, in respect to defendant's prayer therein."
Upon consideration of the premises, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed:
Defendant's motion for leave to file its petition is
granted. The facts alleged therein do not constitute a
violation of the decree of December 4, 1933. Plaintiff's
return and motion are not sufficient to put in issue the
allegations of defendant's petition or to show that defendant has failed to comply with the decree. Plaintiff's motion for the appointment of a special master is denied.
This decree is without prejudice to any application that
plaintiff may make under, in accordance with, or for the
enforcement of, the decree of December 4, 1933.
CLYDE MALLORY LINES v. ALABAMA EX REL.
STATE DOCKS COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 43.

Argued November 15, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. Article i, § 10, cl. 3, of the Constitution, providing that no State

shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

embraces taxes and duties which operate to impose a charge for
the privilege of entering, trading in, or lying in a port. P. 264.
2. Invalidity under this clause depends upon the basis of the exaction,
not upon measure by tonnage. P. 266.

3. This clause does not prevent a reasonable charge to defray the
expense of policing service renldered by the State to insure safety
and facility of movement of vessels using its harbors. P. 266.
4. State harbor regulation, and charges to defray the cost, though
they may incidentally affect foreign or interstate commerce, are
not forbidden by the commerce clause so long as they do not impede
the free flow of commerce or conflict with any regulation of
Congress. P. 267.
229 Ala. 624; 159 So. 53, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a recovery of harbor
fees, in an action by the Docks Commission against the
Steamship Company.

Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper, with whom Messrs. Alexis T.
Gresham and William J. Dean were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. S. Palmer Gaillard,Jr., for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. 344 (a), from a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Alabama, 229 Ala. 624; 159 So. 53,
which affirmed a money judgment of the Circuit Court of
Mobile County for the recovery of "harbor fees" from
appellant.
Appellee, the State Docks Commission, is a state agency
authorized to conduct " the operation of all harbors and
seaports within the state " and to "adopt rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act for the purpose of
regulating, controlling and conducting the said operation"
and with power "to fix from time to time reasonable
rates of charges for all services and for the use of all improvements and facilities provided under the authority

CLYDE MALLORY LINES v. ALABAMA. '263
261

Opinion of the Court.

of this Act." No. 303, Alabama Acts of 1923, 330; No.
303, Ala. Acts of 1927, 1, 8, 12, 13.
By resolution of March 5, 1924, appellee adopted rules
and regulations for the Port of Mobile, for the control,
under the direction of a "chief wharfinger" or harbor
master, of the movement, disposition and anchorage of
vessels passing in and out of and using the port. By
resolution of February 11, 1928, these rules'were readopted and a new rule was added prohibiting the discharge of fuel oil into the harbor by vessels and manufacturing plants. The rules also established a schedule of
"harbor fees," for mooring and shifting vessels in the
harbor, and for all vessels of specified classes entering the
harbor, including a fee of $7.50 for vessels "500 tons and
over." Appellants operate vessels of more than 500 tons
in the coastwise trade between New York and Mobile, anq
the present suit was brought by appellee to recover fees
incurred by reason of the call of appellant's vessels at
Mobile.
The authority of appellee, under the laws and constitution of the state, to adopt the harbor rules and schedule of fees is not questioned, and the reasonableness of
the $7.50 fee is conceded. But appellant insists that its
imposition is prohibited by Art. I, § 10, Clause 3 of the
Constitution, which provides that "no state shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage,"
and that it is a burden on interstate commerce forbidden
by the commerce clause.
The Supreme Court of Alabama found that th6 contested fee was a charge made for the policing of the harbor under the rules adopted by the appellee to insure the
safety of vessels and the dispatch of shipping, within the
port, by regulating the speed of vessels, their movement
and anchorage, and by providing for their protection from
danger of fire occasioned by the uncontrolled discharge
of oil into the harbor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

The record amply supports this conclusion. Appellee's
resolution adopting the harbor fees declared that they
were "for the purpose of meeting the expense attendant
upon the supervision of the port and the execution of the
regulations and providing for the proper accommodation
of vessels at this port." The rules are plainly devised to
insure the safety of vessels and to facilitate their use of
the harbor. They regulate, within the harbor, the disposition of the rigging of sailing ships, the speed and
mooring of vessels, the selection and change of their
anchorage, their loading and unloading, and the use of
lighters, barges and rafts. They require the arrival of
all vessels at the port to be reported to the chief wharfinger, and charge him with "responsibility for selecting and
changing anchorages of and for the movements of vessels
into and out of slips or berths, and with all other ship
movements that effect a fair joint use of the facilities of
the port." The evidence shows that ship movements
within the port are carried on under his active supervision
and control.
The $7.50 fee is conceded not to be a charge for the
use of the state docks or for mooring and shifting vessels, for which specific charges are levied. It is the only
fee attributable to the general service rendered by the
Commission in securing the benefits and protection of the
rules to shipping in the harbor. We accept the conclusion of the state court that it is charged for a policing
service rendered by the state in the aid of the safe and
efficient use of its port, and we address ourselves to the
question whether such a fee is forbidden by the Constitution either because it is a "duty of tonnage" or an
unwarranted burden on interstate commerce.
1. It seems clear that the prohibition against the imposition of any duty of tonnage was due to the desire of
the Framers to supplement Art. I, § 10, Clause 2, denying
to the states power to lay duties on imports or exports,

CLYDE MALLORY LINES v. ALABAMA. 265
261

Opinion of the Court.

see Steamship Co. v. Portwardens,6 Wall. 31, 35; Packet
Co. v. Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80, 87, 88, by forbidding a corresponding tax on the privilege of access by vessels to the
ports of a state, and to their doubts whether the commerce clause would accomplish that purpose.' If the
states had been left free to tax the privilege of access by
vessels to their harbors the prohibition against duties on
imports and exports could have been nullified by taxing
the vessels transporting the merchandise. At the time of
the adoption of the Constitution "tonnage" was a well
understood commercial term signifying in'America the
internal cubic capacity of a vessel. -See Inman Steamship
Co. v. Tinker, 94 U. S. 238, 243. And duties of tonnage
and duties on imports were known to commerce as levies
upon the privilege of access by vessels or goods to the
ports or to the territorial limits of a state and were distinct from fees or charges by authority of a state for services facilitating commerce, such as pilotage, towage,
charges for loading and unloading cargoes, wharfage, storage and the like. See Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12
How. 299, 314; Inman Steamship Co. v. Tinker, supra,
243.
Hence the prohibition against tonnage duties has been
deemed to embrace all taxes and duties regardless of their
name or form, and even though not measured by the tonnage of the vessel, which operate to impose a charge for the
'The adoption of the duty of tonnage clause followed a motion of
Maryland delegates that " No state shall be restricted from laying
duties of tonnage for the purpose of clearing harbors and erecting
light houses." Despite the assertion that such works were peculiarly
necessary in the Chesapeake, the convention proved hostile to state
tonnage levies. There was uncertainty whether the commerce clause
would forbid such- duties: Gouverneur Morris said that it would not,
Madison thought that it should, Sherm~n argued f6r a concurrent
power over commerce with power in the United States to control
state regulations. Whereupon the clause was added in its present
form. See Madison's Notes of the Convention (for Sept. 15, 1787).

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

privilege of entering, trading in, or lying in a port, Steamship Co. v. Portwardens,supra; State Tonnage Tax Cases,
12 Wall. 204; Cannon v. New Orleans, 20 Wall. 577; Inman Steamship Co. v. Tinker, supra; and see Huse v.
Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 549, 550. But it does not extend to
charges made by state authority, even though graduated
according to tonnage, for services rendered to and enjoyed
by the vessel, such as pilotage, Cooley v. Board of Wardens,
supra, or wharfage, Packet Co. v. Keokuk, supra; Packet
Co. v. St. Louis, 100 U. S. 423; Packet Co. v. Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,
107 U. S. 691; Ouachita River Packet Co. v. Aiken, 121
U. S. 444; or charges for the use of locks on a navigable
river, Huse v. Glover, supra, or fees for medical inspection, Morgan's Steamship Co. v. Board of Health, 118
U. S. 455.
Appellant places its reliance on those cases in which a
tax, levied in the guise of wharfage or a charge for medical inspection, was condemned because imposed on all
vessels entering a port, whether receiving the benefit
of the service or not, see Steamship Co. v. Portwardens,
supra; Cannon v. New Orleans, supra; Peete v. Morgan,
19 Wall. 581. It argues that the present fees must similarly be condemned because imposed on all vessels entering the port, and points out that appellant has neither
asked nor received any police service such as that which
the state court regarded as the basis for the charge.
But the policing of a harbor so as to insure the safetyand facility of movement of vessels using it differs from
wharfage or other services which benefit only the particular vessels using them. It is not any the less a service beneficial to appellant because its vessels have not
been given any special assistance. The benefits which
flow from the enforcement of regulations, such as the present, to protect and facilitate traffic in a busy harbor inure
to all who enter it. Upon this ground, .among'others, a

CLYDE MALLORY LINES v. ALABAMA.
261

267

Opinion of the Court.

fee for half pilotage imposed upon vessels such as were
not required to take a pilot was upheld in Cooley v. Board
of Wardens, supra, 312, 313. We conclude that a reasonable charge for a service such as the present is neither
within the historic meaning of the phrase "duty of tonnage " nor the purpose of the constitutional prohibition.
It is unnecessary to consider other types of port charges,
as for dredging or other forms of harbor improvement,
with respect to which different considerations may apply.
2. The present fee to defray the cost of a purely local
regulation of harbor traffic is not an objectionable burden
on commerce. State regulations of harbor traffic, although they incidentally affect commerce, interstate or
foreign, are of local concern. So long as they do not
impede the free flow of commerce and are not made the
subject of regulation by Congress they are not forbidden.
Willson v. Black-Bird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 209; Cooley v. Board of Wardens, supra, 314; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713;
Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago,
107 U. S. 678; Cardwell v. American Bridge Co., 113
U. S. 205; Willamette Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1;
Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Manigault v. Springs,
199 U. S. 473; see Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 631;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 363, 407. And
charges levied by state authority to defray the cost of
regulation or of facilities afforded in aid of interstate or
foreign commerce have consistently been held to be permissible. Such charges were considered and upheld in
Packet Co. v. Keokuk, supra; Morgan's Steamship Co. v.
Board of Health, supra; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, supra, 701, et seq.; Ouachita Packet Co. v. Aiken,
supra, 448, et seq.; Huse v. Glover, supra See Sands v.
Manistee River Improvement Co., 123 U. S. 288. A
similar exercise of state power is the imposition of in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

spection or license fees incident to or in support of local
regulations of interstate commerce. Patapsco Guano Co.
v. Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345; McLean & Co. v.
Denver & Rio Grande R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 54; Red "C"
Oil Mfg. Co. v. Board of Agriculture, 222 U. S. 380; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365; Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S.
158. Its most recent manifestation is the levy of a tax
which represents a reasonable charge upon interstate
automobile traffic passing over state highways, upheld in
Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Clark v. Poor, 274
U. S. 554; Interstate Busses Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S.
245; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610.
Affirmed.
MILWAUKEE COUNTY v. M. E. WHITE CO.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 32.

Argued November 12, 13, 1935.-Decided December 9,

1935.
1. A suit by or on behalf of a State upon a judgment for taxes is a
suit of a civil nature within the meaning of § 24, Jud. Code, defining the jurisdiction of the District Courts. P. 270.
2. The obligation to pay taxes is not penal; it is a statutory liability,
quasi-contractual in nature, enforcible, if there be no exclusive
statutory remedy, in the civil courts by the common-law action of
debt or indebitatus assumpsit. This was the rule established in
the English courts before the Declaration of Independence.
P. 271.
3. The objection that the courts in one State will not entertain a
suit to recover taxes due to another or upon a judgment for such
taxes goes not to the jurisdiction but to the merits, and raises
a question which District Courts are competent to decide. P. 272.
4. Even if full faith and credit are not commanded, there is nothing
in the Constitution and laws of the United States which requires
a court of a State to deny relief upon a judgment recovered in
'another State because it is for taxes. P. 272,

