OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
296 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

INDUSTRIAL TRUST CO.

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS, v.

UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 213.

Argued November 22, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. Acts of Congress must be construed, if possible, so as to avoid
grave doubts of their constitutionality. P. 221.
2. A life insurance policy taken out in 1892 by the insured and
paid up in 1912, was payable to others if they survived him but
otherwise to his estate. No power was reserved in him to change
beneficiaries, borrow on the policy or surrender it. The others
survived him when he died in 1930. Held: That § 302 (g), Revenue Act 1926, which is the same as § 402 (f), Revenue Act 1918,
may not be construed as making the amount receivable by the
beneficiaries a part of the gross estate; notwithstanding subdivision (h) of § 302 of the 1926 Act, which declares that subdivision
(g) of that section, along with others, shall apply to "transfers,
trusts, estates, interests, rights, powers, and relinquishment of
powers, as severally enumerated and described therein, whether
made, created, arising, existing, exercised, or relinquished before or
after' the enactment of this Act." Bingham v. United States, ante,
p. 211. Pp. 221-222.
80 Ct. Cls. 647; 9 F. Supp. 817, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment dismissing a petition
in a suit to recover an amount exacted as part of an
estate tax.

Mr. Charles P. Taft for petitioners.

Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Widenn, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners, as executors of the estate of William M.
Greene, who died in 1930, filed an estate-tax return and
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

INDUSTRIAL TRUST CO. v. U. S.
220

Opinion of the Court.

paid the amount of the federal estate tax disclosed
thereby. A paid-up life-insurance policy of $42,000 was
omitted from thd return. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue declared a deficiency and included the amount
of this policy in the gross estate. Petitioners filed a claim
for refund, which was rejected by the commissioner.
Thereupon, this proceeding was brought in the Court
of Claims to recover the amount of the claim. That
court held against the right to recover and dismissed the
petition.
The policy, issued in 1892, promised to make payment
to the wife of the decedent, as sole beneficiary if living;
and if not living, to the surviving children of the decedent; and, in the event of none surviving, then to the
executors, administrators, or assigns of the decedent. In
1912, the policy became a paid-up policy requiring no further payment of premiums. No power was reserved to
change beneficiaries, borrow on the policy or surrender it.
The wife of the decedent predeceased him; but he was
survived by three children, to whom the proceeds of the
policy were paid upon his death.
The case of Lewellyn. v. Frick, 268 U. S. 238, arose under the Revenue Act of 1918. This case arises under the
act of 1926, § 302 (g), which is the same as § 402 (f) of
the former act. Subdivision (h) of the 19.26 act, however, provides that subdivisions (b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
and (g) shall apply to "transfers, trusts, estates, interests, rights, powers, and relinquishment of powers, as severally enumerated and described therein, whether made,.
created, arising, existing, exercised, or relinquished before
or after the enactment of this Act." Whether any of
these terms apply to an amount receivable by a beneficiary, under a policy such as we have here, is fairly debatable. See Wyeth v. Crooks, 33 F. (2d) 1018, 1019.
If any of them do apply, the provision is open to grave
doubt as to its constitutionality, and the rule of the Frick
case controls.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

The foregoing facts bring the case clearly within our
decision just announced in Bingham v. United States,
ante, p. 211; and the judgment of the court below is
.accordingly
Reversed.
,ALEXANDER

ET

AL.,

RECEIVERS, v. HILLMAN
ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO T-HE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 15 and 16.

Argued October 17, 18, 1935.-Decided December
9, 1935.

In a suit in the District Court in which receivers were appointed
to collect and distribute the assets of a corporation, claims were
filed by individuals who as directors and officers had controlled
and dominated the corporation's affairs, and by other companies,
also controlled and used by them. In response to the claims, the
receivers filed in the same court an ancillary bill, separately numbered but not praying process, in which they set up counterclaims
for the value of assets of the corporation which they averred the
individual claimants fraudulently and in violation of their duties
as officers and directors had, through complicated transactions,
converted to the use of themselves and the two corporate claimants. Upon being served by mail with copies of the ancillary bill
and an order directing them to plead to it, the -claimants appeared
specially and moved to quash upon the ground that they were
inhabitants of another State, within the purview of § 51, Jud.
Code. Held:
1. The court had jurisdiction of the subject matter-the claims and
counterclaims. P. 237.
2. The ancillary bill, while in form not inappropriate for the commencement of a suit, served as a pleading in the main suit, to put
the claimants to proof of their claims and to assert the right of
the receivers to affirmative relief- P. 239.
*The

respondents in this case were: J. II. Hillman, Jr., A. B.

Sheets, Thomas Watson, Hillman Coal & Coke Co., and Hecla Coal
and Coke Co.

