AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. ELECTRIC CO.

133

Syllabus.

113

For reasons stated in Bank of California v. Richardson, 248 U. S. 476, the assessment is excessive to the extent
that it includes shares of stock of the Philadelphia National Bank belonging to the Trust Company. These
shares having been taxed to the Trust Company as owner
could not properly be taxed again to a shareholder of the
owner. Bank of Catifornia v. Richardson, supra; .R. S.
§ 5219.
Other questions are in the case, but they are not decided in the prevailing opinion, and will not be considered
here.
The judgment should be modified by directing the deduction from the assessment of the value of the appellant's shares in the Philadelphia National Bank, and as
modified affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE STONE'join in

this opinion.
AMERICAN

SURETY

CO.

v.

WESTINGHOUSE

ELECTRIC MANUFACTURING CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12.

Argued October 17, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. A bond given to the United States, pursuant to 40 U. S. C.,
§ 270, for the faithful performance of a construction contract and
for the making of prompt payment to all persons supplying the

principal with labor and materials in the prosecution of the work,
inures to the laborers and materialmen as obligees, together with
the United States, though the claims of the Government have
priority. P. 135:
2. Where a, bond securing payment of the claims of materialmen

was required by statute, and its full amount has been paid by
the surety and applied in part satisfaction of such claims, the
surety, against such claimants, has no equity to reimbursement
from funds of its insolvent principal until such claims have been

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

settled in full; such an equity does not arise from the doctrine of
subrogation, nor from an express contract of the principal, made
before he became insolvent, to indemnify the surety out of those
particular funds--in this case the "retained percentage" due the
principal under a construction contract. P. 137.
75 F. (2d) 377, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 723, to review the affirmance of
a decree of the District Court, in bankruptcy, directing
that a fund belonging to the bankrupt, which had been
retained by the United States as security from moneys
due him under a construction contract, should be devoted
to payment of claims of creditors'who furnished materials
for the performance of the contract, to the exclusion of
the claimfor reimbursement of the surety on the contractor's bond.
Mr. Hugh H. Obear, with whom Messrs. Francis B.
Carter and Charles A. Douglas were on the brief, for
petitioner.

Mr. Edward H. Cushman, with whom Mr. William
Fisher was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.

A contract for drilling a well at the Naval Air Station at Pensacola, Florida, was made in November, 1930,
between Melton J. Gray and the United States Government. It was drawn in the standard form.: Payments
were to be made in accordance with approved estimates
during the progress of the work, but the contracting officer -was required to retain 10% of the estimated amount
"until final completion and acceptance of all work covered by the contract." The percentage might be reduced
in stated contingencies. A bond was to be given for the
protection of the Government and of persons supplying
labor and materials. If thereafter a surety upon the

AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. ELECTRIC CO. 135
133

Opinion of the Court.

bond became unacceptable, the contractor was to furnish
such additional security as might be required to protect
the interests concerned.
The totalcontract price was $13,133.36. Thebond which
was executed by the contractor and 'by the petitioner as
surety was in the penal sum of $3,940. The condition was
that the principal, i. e., the contractor, should perform the
contract in all its terms, and in addition 'should "promptly
make payment to all persons supplying the principal
with labor and materials in the prosecution of the work."
The additional obligation thus incurred is one exacted by
statute. Act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278; Act
of February 24, 1905, d.778, 33 Stat. 811; Act of March
3; 1911, c. 231, §29i, 36 Stat. 1167; 40 U' S. C. § 270.
Laborers and materialmen, together with the Government, are obligees or beneficiaries of a bond so given
(Equitable Surety Co. v. United States, 234 U. S.448;
Illinois Surety Co. v. John Davis Co., 244 U. -S.376;
Brogan v. National Surety Co.,'246 U. S.257), though the
claims, if any, of the Government are to have priority
of payment. 40 U. S. C § 270.,
The contractor finished the work required by the contract, but did not make payment to all persons supplying
him with labor and materials. Demand was made upon
the surety, which paid into court $3,940, the full amount
of the penalty, for distribution among the respondents in
proportion to their interests. The payment did not satisfy what was owing to them for labor and materials
furnished for the well. Thereupon conflicting, claims
arose to the ten per cent retained by. the Government
in accordance with the contract. On the one hand, the
surety laid claim to this reserved percentage ($2,724.23)
by right of subrogatiori, and also and with grehter emphasis by force of a covenant of indemnity received from
the principal at the beginning of the work. -On the other
hand, the reserved percentage was. claimed by the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

spondents on the ground that the effect of the statute,
the contract and the bond, when read together, was to
make the equity of the surety subordinate to theirs.
Out of this equity there grew, as they contended, a right
or an interest which, even if not a lien in the strict and
proper sense, brought kindred consequences along with it.
At least a court of equity would not come to the aid of
one whose equity was subordinate until claims superior
in equity had been satisfied in full.
By this time Gray was a bankrupt, and a trustee in
bankruptcy was in charge of his affairs. The Government turned over the fund to the trustee, who held it to
abide the order of the court. No claim to any part of it
was put forward by the general creditors or by the trustee
in their behalf. The controversy was solely between the
materialmen on the one side and the surety on the other.
Indeed there is nothing to show that any other creditors
than these existed. The District Court, confirming a report of a referee, gave priority to the materialmen and
made a decree accordingly. The Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit affirmed, one judge dissenting. 75 F. (2d)
377. A writ of certiorari brings the case here.
The materialmen were creditors of the contractor, their
standing as such being unchallenged in the record or in
argument. The contractor was under a legal duty at
the time of his insolvency to pay their claims in full.
This obligation would have been his apart from any bond,
the debtor-creditor relation subsisting independently. As
to materialmen in that relation, the statute and the bond
did not add to the extent of the contractor's obligation,
though they made it definite and certain. What their effect would be when applied to materialmen not creditors
of the contractor is a question not before us. The obligation of the surety, however, unlike that of the contractor,
was created solely by the bond, and is limited thereby and
by the equities growing out of the suretyship relation.

AMERICAN SURETY CO. v. ELECTRIC CO. 137
133

Opinion of the Court.

In any suit upon the bond, at least against the surety.
the nominated penalty was to be the limit of recovery
Upon payment of that penalty it was to be "relieved,"
in the words of the statute, "from further liability." 40
U. S. C. § 270.
Liability to pay was ended, but equities growing out of
the suretyship relation survived in undiminished force.
Acquittance under the bond did not leave the surety at
liberty to prove against the assets of the insolvent principal on equal terms with the materialmen, still less to go
ahead of them. The settled principles of the law of suretyship forbid that competition. Jenkins v. National
Surety Co., 277 U. S. 258, 266. A surety who has undertaken to pay the creditors of the principal, though not
beyond a-stated limit, may not share in the assets of the
principal by reason of such payment until the debts thus
partially protected have been satisfied in full. This is
the rule where the right to a dividend has its basis in -the
principle of equitable subrogation. "A surety liable only
for part of the debt does not become subrogated to collateral or to remedies available to the creditor unless he
pays the whole debt or it is otherwise satisfied." United
States v. National Surety Co., 254 U. S. 73, 76.* If the
holding were different, the surety would reduce the protection of the bond to the extent of its dividend in the
assets of the debtor. Jenkins v. National Surety Co.,
supra. The rule is the same, and for like reasons, where
the basis of the claim is the debtor's promise to indemnify,
if the debtor is insolvent when the promise is enforced.
Jenkins v. National Surety CQ., supra, at pp. 266, 267.
Cf. Springfield National Ban v. American Surety Co.,
7 F. (2d) 44. "Wherever equitable principles are called
into play, as they preeminently are in determining the
Peoples v. Peoples Bros., 254 Fed. 489; Maryland Casualty
Co. v. Fouts, 11 F. (2d) 71; McGrath v. Carnegie Trust Co., 221
N. Y. 92, 95.
*Cf.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

rights and liabilities of sureties and in the distribution of
insolvents' .estates, they likewise forbid the surety to secure by independent contract with the debtor indemnity
at the expense of the creditor whose claim he has undertaken to secure." Jenkins v. National Surety Co., supra,
at p. 267. This is surely so unless thecontract of indemnity has the effect of a specific lien. In the absence
of such a lien the reserved percentages in controversy became assets available to creditors, the respondents along
with others, upon the completion of the work to the satisfaction of the Government. Insolvency supervening, the
surety must be postponed in the distribution of the assets
to the remedies of any claimants who are members of
the class of creditors covered by the bond.
The petitioner draws a distinction between a general
promise to indemnify, which would be implied if not expressed, and a promise whereby a specific fund, whether
in being or to arise thereafter, is set apart or earmarked
as collateral security. We are told in effect that the displacement of a lien is an exercise of power more drastic
and far-reaching than the marshalling of assets where there
has been no agreementfor a lien. The distinction might
be important if the contest were between the surety and
creditors not covered by the bond or between the surety
and later assignees of the security so promised. Prairie
State Bank v. United States, 164 U. S. 227; Henningsen v.
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co,, 208 U. S. 404.
Such is not the situation here, even though we assume in
aid of the petitioner that the promise to indemnify, obscure in its terms, is to be read as amounting to a specific
appropriation of the percentages reserved or of any other
assets. The contest in this cause is between the surety on
the one hand and on the other hand creditors of the clays
it has undertaken to protect. At such times the position

AMERICAN ,SURETY CO. v. ELECTRIC CO. 139
133-

Opinion of the Court.

of the surety is not bettered though the promise-is directed to particular collateral, at all events where the
bond is one required by the law. What considerations
may govern after payment of the penalty in full where
the bond is altogether a voluntary security we do not need
to inquire. Cases such as Kelle v. Ashford,' 133 U.'S
610, 622; Hampton v. Phipps, 108 U. S. 260, 263; and
Moses V: Murgatroyd, 1 Johns. Ch. 119, 129, though they
suggest an analogy; do not control, even in principle, for
there the surety was in default upon his obligation to the
creditor. Slight differences in the facts may cause the
equities to vary, and thus 'vary the result. What concerns us here is the remedy available where the bond has
been given under the mandate of a statute. Equity then
forbids that the statutory security be whittled down indirectly by any promise of indemnity, general or specific.
Debtor and surety may not effectually agree that materialmen and laborers shall have less of the general assets as
the price of their right to recover on the bond. Through
the bond and the statute a new relation has been established with a new set of equities, not subject to destruction at the pleasure of the principal. The integrity of
that relation is in the keeping of the law.
We have no occasion to consider to what extent the
creditors of the bankrupt not covered by the bond are affected by the equities of creditors so covered or by those
of the petitioner with the result that their claims are to
be held subordinate thereto. Cf. Prairie State' Bank v.
United States, supra; Henningsen v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., supra. As we have already pointed
out, the record does not show' that there are any general
creditors, and if any such exist, they are' not complaining
of the decree. Our decision must be kept within the
bounds of the controversy before us.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, dissenting.
The opinion of Judge Sibley in the court below, 75
F. (2d) 380, seems to me conclusive upon the propositions
that neither the common law, the contract with the Government, nor the bond furnished by the contractor, give
materialmen or laborers any right of lien upon the fund
or preference in distribution thereof. I also agree with
his view that the indemnity contract between the contractor and the surety company (even if an assignment of
a claim for retained percentages against the United States
were valid, in view of R. S. § 3477), is too vague to
amount to an assignment of the retained percentages;
and that the surety is not entitled to subrogation either to
the rights of the United States or of the materialmen and
contractors. I think it clear that, in the circumstances,
the amount paid by the United States into the fund in
the hands of the trustee in bankruptcy is general assets of
the estate and that the surety company, as respects its
claim for the amount paid under its bond, and the furnishers of material and labor, are general creditors entitled to no preference or priority over each other. I
think the judgment should, therefore, be reversed.
McCANDLESS, RECEIVER, v. FURLAUD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 26.

Argued October 21, 22, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. Promoters of a corporation, who deal with it for their profit oppressively or in violation of statute, are chargeable as trustees.
P. 156.
2. The extent to which approval of all the shareholders will relieve
promoters of this liability depends upon the nature of the wrong
and the interests affected. P. 157.

