HELVERING v. CITY BANK CO.

85

Syllabus.

HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL

REVENUE, v. CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST
CO., TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 10.

Argued October 15, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

1. Section 302 (d), Revenue Act of 1926, which includes in the gross
estate any interest in property of which the decedent has at any
time made a transfer, where the enjoyment thereof was subject at
the date of. his death to any change through the exercise of a
power, "either by the decedent alone or in conjunction with any
other person, to alter, amend, or revoke," applies to a transfer
which was complete when'made but subject to be altered or revoked
by the transferor with the consent of another person who was himself a beneficiary of the transfer. P. 87.
2. When the language of a statute is plain, there is no occasion for
construction or for referring to committee reports. P. 89.
3. As applied to transfers in trust made after its enactment, § 302 (d)
is not arbitrary or unreasonable. P. 89.
4. The purpose of Congress in adding clause (d) to the section as
it stood in an earlier Act, was to prevent avoidance of the tax by
the device of joining with the grantor in the exercise of the power
of revocation someone who he believed would comply with his
wishes. Congress may well have thought that a beneficiary who
was of the grantor's immediate family might be amenable to persuasion, or be induced to consent to a revocation in consideration
of other expected benefits from the grantor's estate. P. 90.
5. A legislative declaration that a status of the taxpayer's creation
shall, in the application of the tax, be deemed the equivalent of
another 'status falling normally within the scope of the taxing
power, if reasonibly requisite to prevent evasion, does not take
property without due process. P. 90.
74 F. (2d) 242, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 723, to review a judgment affirming an order of the Board of Tax Appeals, 29 B. T. A.
1141, overruling an increase of estate tax assessment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. David E.
Reed, Assistant
Sewall Key were
Mr. Russell L.

296 U. S.

Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Attorney General Wideman, and Mr.
on the brief, for petitioner.

Bradford, with whom Messrs. Carl Taylor and George H. Craven were on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Revenue Act of 1926, § 302 (d),' provides:
"The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his
death of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated"(d).. To the extent of any interest therein of which the
decedent has at any time made a transfer, by trust or
otherwise, where the enjoyment thereof was subject at
the date of his death to any change through the exercise
of a power, either by the decedent alone or in conjunction with any person, to alter, amend, or revoke, . . ."
The questions for decision are whether the section requires inclusion in the gross estate of the value of the
corpus of a trust established in 1930 where the creator
reserved a power to revoke or modify, to be exercised
jointly with a beneficiary and the trustee; and whether,
if such value is to be included in the gross estate, the
section offends the Fifth Amendment.
By a writing dated February 21, 1930, Gertrude Feldman James, a non-resident citizen, transferred securities
to the respondent as trustee, the trust to last during the
lives of her two daughters or the survivor of them. The
C. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 70; U. S. C. App., Tit. 26, § 1094.

HELVERING v. CITY BANK CO.
85

Opinion of the Court.

income was to be paid to her until her death, or uhtil
the termination of the trust, whichever should first occur.
After her death, her husband surviving, the income was
to be paid to him. If he did not outlive her, or upon
his death, the income was to be distributed amongst
their issue per stirpes. At the termination of the trust
the corpus was to be delivered to the husband, if he were
alive; if not, to the settlor, if living, or, if she were dead,
to the beneficiaries at that time entitled to receive the
income; if there were none such, to the heirs at law of
the husband. The trust was irrevocable save that the
settlor reserved the right to modify, alter or revoke it,
in whole or in part, or to change any beneficial interest,
any such revocation or alteration to be effected with the
written consent of the trustee and her husband or, if the
husband were dead, of the trustee and her husband's
brother. If they could not agree the decision of the husband or of the brother, as the case might be, was to be
final. Samuel James, the husband, survived the grantor,
whose death occurred before the termination of the trust,
and he is in receipt of the income.
The petitioner included the value of the corpus of the
trust in Mrs. James' gross estate and determined a deficiency of tax. The Board of Tax Appeals reversed, holding
that § 302(d) 'did not apply.' The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the Board's decision.' We granted the writ
of certiorari because the decision below conflicts with that
in another circuit. We hold that the section covers this
case and as so applied is valid.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought our decision in
Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, required
the language of the Act to be construed as tantamount to
229

B. T. A. 1141.

a 74 F. (2d) 242.
4 Commissioner v. Strauss, 77 F. (2d) 401.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

"in conjunction with any person not a beneficiary." So
limited it is inapplicable to the trust in question.'
The Reinecke case involved § 402 (c) of 'the Revenue
Act of 1921 1 (substantially § 302 (c) of the Revenue Act
of 1926) which directed the inclusion in the gross estate
of all property "To the extent of any interest therein of
which the decedent has at any time made a transfer, or
with respect to which he has at any time created a trust,
in contemplation of or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death . . ." It was
held that a gift beyond the power of the grantor to alter,
amend or revoke could not be said to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death. Conversely,
one which he alone held the power to revoke or modify
came within the section, since, at his death, substantial
interests passed from his control and were for the first
time confirmed in others. The case involved nothing
more than a determination whether the transfers were
complete when made. If they were the statute did not
reach them. Here we have a different problem, for § 302
(d) of the 1926 Act on its face embraces Mrs. James'
transfer, although complete when made and thereafter
beyond her own unfettered control.
The respondent says that the section ought to be construed in the light of the analogous § 219 (g). 7 The latter, part of the income tax title, is "Where the grantor of
a trust has, at any time during the taxable year, either
alone or in conjunction with any person not a beneficiary
of the trust, the power to revest in himself title to any
Compare White v. Poor, 75 F. (2d) 35 (No. 36 of this term, post,
p. 98), and Helvering v. Helmholz, 75 F. (2d) 245 (No. 14 of this
term, post, p. 93); Lit v. Commissioner, 72 F. (2d) 551; Commissioner v. Stevens, 79 F. (2d) 490.
'C. 136, 42 Stat. 227.
C. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 34; U. S. C. App., Tit. 26 § 960.

HELVERING v. CITY BANK CO.
85

89

Opinion of the Court.

part of the corpus of the trust, then the income of such
part of the trust for such taxable year shall be included
in computing the net income of the grantor." The two
sections have a cognate purpose but they exhibit marked
differences of substance. The one speaks of a power to
be exercised with one not a beneficiary; the other of a
power to be exercised with any person. The one refers
to a power to revest the corpus in the donor; the other
has no such limitation.' It is true, the. Report of the
Ways and Means Committee on § 302 (d) said "this provision is in accord with the principle of Section 219 (g) of
the bill which taxes to the grantor the income of a revocable trust." I But to credit the assertion that the difference in phraseology is without significance and in both
sections Congress meant to express, the same thought,
would beto disregard the clear intent of the phrase "any
person" employed in § 302 (d). We are not at liberty
to construe language so plain as to need no construction,"0
or to refer to Committee reports where there can be no
doubt of the meaning of the words used. 1 The section
applies to this transfer. "
We are next told that if the Act means what it says it
taxes a transfer as one taking effect at death though made
prior to death and complete when made; that to do this
is arbitrary and deprives the taxpayer of property without
due process.
The section was first introduced into the Revenue Act
of 1924, and reenacted in that of 1926. Mrs. James
created her trust in 1930. She was, therefore, upon notice
of the law's command, and there can be no claim that the
statute is retroactive in its application to her transfer.
8Compare

Porterv. Commissioner, 288 U. S. 436.
1 H. R. No. 179, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 28.
'0 Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414, 419; Thompson v. United
States, 246 U/S. 547, 551.
11 Wilbur v. Vindicator Gold Mining Co., 284 U. S. 231, 237.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

The inquiry is whether it is arbitrary and unreasonable
to prescribe for the future that, as respects the estate tax,
a transfer, complete when made, shall be deemed complete
only at the transferor's death, if he reserves power to revoke or alter exercisable jointly with another.
The respondent insists that a power to recall an absolute and complete gift only with the consent of the donee
is in truth no power at all; that in such case the so-called
exercise of the power.is equivalent to a new gift from the
donee to the donor. And so it is claimed that the statute
arbitrarily declares that t6 exist which in fact and law is
nonexistent. The position is untenable. The purpose of
Congress in adding clause (d) to the section as it stood in
an earlier act was to prevent avoidance of the tax by the
device of joining with the grantor in the exercise of the
power of revocation someone who he believed would comply with his wishes. Congress may well have thought
that a beneficiary who was of the grantor's immediate
!amily might be amenable to persuasion or be induced to
consent to a revocation in consideration of other expected
benefits from the grantor's estate. Congress may adopt
a measure reasonably calculated to prevent avoidance of
a tax. The test of validity in respect of due process of
law is whether the means adopted are appropriate to the
end. A legislative declaration that a status of the taxpayer's creation shall, in the application :of the tax, be
deemed the equivalent of another status falling normally
within the scope of the taxing power, if reasonably requisite to prevent evasion, does not take property without
due process. But if the means are unnecessary or inappropriate to the proposed end, are unreasonably harsh or
oppressive, when viewed in the light of the *expectedbenefit, or arbitrarily ignore recognized rights to enjoy or to
convey individual property, theguarantee of due process
is infringed.

HELVERING v. CITY BANK CO.
85

Opinion of the Court.

Illustrations are not lacking of cases falling on either
side of the line.
Congress may require that property transferred in contemplation of death, although the transfer is so remote in
time as not to comply with the requirements of a gift
causa mortis, shall nevertheless be treated as part of the
estate for purposes of taxation: this for the prevention of
evasion and the giving of practical effect to the exercise
of admitted power. 12 This is true despite the fact that
the statutory prescription embraces gifts inter vivos which
are in fact fully executed, irrevocable and cannot be defeated.1"
Although property received by gift from another is capital in the hands of the donee, the gain upon a sale may be
measured by the cost to the donor rather than the value at
the time of acquisition by the donee. 4
It is competent for Congress, in order to avoid the evasion of tax, to declare that when one has placed his property in trust subject to a right of revocation in himself
and another who is not the beneficiary he shall, nevertheless, be deemed to control the property in such sense
that the income therefrom shall be treated as his income
for the levying of a tax. 15 So also where an irrevocable
trust is established to pay for insurance on the settlor's
life, to collect the policy upon his death, and to hold or
apply the proceeds for the benefit of his dependents, Congress may declare the income of the trust fund taxable to
the settlor as part of his own income.' 6
In the instances cited the power to levy an excise upon
the testamentary transfers or to tax income was conceded.
12 Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531, 542; Milliken v. United States,

283 U. S. 15, 20; United States v. Wells, 283 U. S. 102, 116.
18 United States v. Wells, supra.
14 Taft v. Bowers, 278 U. S. 470, 483.
'15Reinecke v. Smith, 289 U. S. 172, 177.
16 Burnet v Wells, 289 U. S. 670.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

To effectuate the exarcise of this admitted power and to
prevent evasion Congress was held to have acted reason-:
ably in including within the sweep of the statute a status
or an act not normally within its reach.
There are, however, limits to the power of Congress
to create a fictitious status under the guise of supposed
necessity. Thus it has been held that an act creating a
conclusive presumption that a gift made within two
years prior to death was made by the donor in contemplation of death, and requiring the value of the gift to
be iincluded in computing the estate of the decedent subject to transfer tax, is so grossly unreasonable as to violate the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.' 7 In
the same category falls a statute seeking to tax the separate income of a wife as income of her husband."
In view of the evident purpose of' Congress we find
nothing unreasonable or arbitrary in the provisions of
§ 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1926 as applied in the
circumstances of this case. It was appropriate for Congress to prescribe that if, subsequently to the passage of
that Act, the creator of a trust estate saw fit to reserve
to himself jointly with any other person the power of
revocation or alteration, the transaction should be deemed
to be testamentary in character, that is, *treated for the
purposes of the law as intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at the death of the settlor.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNMR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUT-

OLDS,

LER are of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
17

Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312. Compare Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230.
18 Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U. S. 206.

