BINGHAM v. UNITED STATES.
207

Syllabus.

matter, does not apply. The construction put upon the
contracts did not constitute a preliminary step which
simply had the effect of bringing forward for determination the federal question, but was a decision which
automatically took the federal question out of the case if
otherwise it would be there. The non-federal question
in respect of the construction of the contracts, and the
federal question in respect of their validity under the
Anti-trust Act, were clearly independent of one another.
See Allen v. Southern Pacific R. Co., 173 U. S. 479, 489492. The case, in effect, was disposed of before the federal question said to be involved was reached. Chouteau
v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200; Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S.
540, 548. A decision of that question then became unnecessary; and whether it was decided or not, our want
of jurisdiction is clear.
Writ dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

BINGHAM ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 83.

Argued November 22, 1935.-Decided December 9, 1935.

1. Acts of Congress are to be construed, if possible, so as to avoid
grave doubts of their constitutionality. P. 218.
2. Section 402 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1918, which declares that
amounts in excess of $40,000 receivable by all beneficiaries, other
than the executor, as insurance under policies taken out by a
decedent upon his own life, shall be included in his gross estate
in determining the estate transfer tax, is not to be construed as
applicable to a policy taken out and made payable, directly or by
assignment, to such a beneficiary long before the Act was passed,
where no power was reservedl in the decedent to change the bene-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

296 U.S.

ficiary, pledge or assign the policy, revoke the assignment made,
or surrender the policy without the beneficiary's consent; even
though, by the terms of 'the policy or assignment, if such beneficiary had not survived the decedent, the proceeds would have
gone to the decedent's estate. Lewellyn v. Frick, 268 U. S. 238.
Pp. 217-219.
3. The title and possession of the beneficiary were irrevocably fixed
by the terms of the policy or assignment; and no interest passed
to the beneficiary as the result of the death of the insured.
Helvering v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., ante, p. 39; Becker v. St.
Louis Union Trust Co., ante, p. 48. P. 219.
4. Matters pertinent to an issue -before the court and which were
clearly presented to it, are to be taken as covered by the decision
though not mentioned in the opinion. P. 218.
76 F. (2d) 573, reversed.
CERTIORARI* to review a judgment reversing a judgment., 7 F. Supp. 907, in an action to recover the amount
of a federal estate tax alleged to have been illegally
exacted.

Mr. George S. Fuller for petitioners.
Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Arnold Raum were on the brief, for the
United States.
The issue is not foreclosed by Lewellyn v. Frick, 268
U. S. 238. Whether § 402 (f) operates retroactively must
be considered separately in every case.
Lewellyn v. Frick does not prevent the inclusion of
every policy taken out before the enactment of the 1918
Act. In certain cases the statute would not have a retroactive effect because of reserved powers in the insured or
because of contingencies involved in a beneficiary's interests which became indefeasible only upon the insured's
death after the passage of the statute. And in such cases
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

BINGHAM v. UNITED STATES.
211

Argument for the United States.

where there would in fact be no retroactive operation of
the statute we believe that the all-inclusive language of
§ 402 (f) is not subject to the exception read into it by the
Frick decision. Cf. Heiner v. Grandin, 44 F. (2d) 141;
56 F. (2d) 1082; cert. den., 286 U. S. 561.
That the scope of the Frick decision is not as broad as
the petitioners herein assert is further evidenced by this
Court's combined treatment of Reinecke v. Northern
Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, and Chase National Bank v.
United States, 278 U. S. 327. In the latte r the Court
held that § 402 (f) of the 1921 Act (identical with the
corresponding provisions of the 1918 Act) was applicable.
Since the policies were taken out after the effective date
,of the Act, that decision, if it stood alone, might not have
any significance with reference to the present issue. But
the Court on that same day decided the Reinecke case
holding, inter alia, that two trusts, created in 1903 and
1910 respectively, revocable by the settlor, were properly
included in his gross estate under the 1921 Act. In reaching that result, the Court relied upon its decision in the
Chase National Bank case.
The Court employed the Chase National Bank case to
justify a holding that it was not retroactive taxation to
include in a decedent's gross estate transfers made by
him before the effective date of any federal estate tax
statute, but which became complete only at his death.
The inference is plain, that had the policies in the Chase
National Bank case Leen taken out before the first federal estate tax statute (or before either the 1918 or 1921
Acts), it would not have been retroactive taxation to include them in the decedent's gross estate. See also
Liebes v. Commissioner, 63 F. (2d) 870, 873.
Reference to the record in the Frick case will discldse,
it is true, that three of the policies involved therein had
been assigned by the insured reserving the right to revoke,
the assignments, a power comparable to the power. to

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

296 U.S.

change the beneficiary, and that in several other policies,
the beneficiaries' interests were contingent. But the
Government did not make any argument based on that
power of revocation or the defeasibility of the beneficiaries' interests, nor did the Court consider or even allude to them in its opinion. Under those circumstances,
the decision cannot be regarded as having passed on the
effect of such elements. Cf. Webster v. Fall, 266 U. S.
507, 511; United States v. Mitchell, 271 U. S. 9, 14.
Those circumstances, when cohsidered along with the
Chase National Bank case, Reinecke v. Northern Trust
Co., and the denial of certiorari in the Grandin case,
would seem to indicate that the issue herein is not foreclosed by the Frick case.
Section 402 (f) does not operate retroactively as to the
policies herein.
Transactions initiated before the effective date of a
statute are frequently considered as completed only at
the decedent's death occurring after the passage of the
statute. A common type of such transactions is a transfer with reserved power to revoke, alter, or amend. It is
only upon termination of the power that the transfers are
regarded as complete. See Reinecke v. Northern Trust
Co., 278 U.. S. 339; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S.
260; Porter v. Commissioner, 288 U. S. 436; Gwinn v.
Commissioner, 287 U. S. 224. Cf. Burnet v. Guggenheim,
288 U. S. 280.
But a transfer with reserved powers to revoke, etc., is
not the only kind of transaction that may be incomplete
until a later date. The creation of an estate by the entirety, for example, gives neither spouse any right of
severance, revocation, etc. Yet the whole estate may be
included in the gross estate of the spouse who created the
tenancy, regardless of when it was created, because the
surviving spouse's rights depended upon outliving the
other, and became absolute for the first time at the other's

BINGHAM v. UNITED STATES.
211

Argument for the United States.

death, Third Nat. Bank & Trust Co. v. White, 287 U. S.
577, affirming per curiam, 58 F. (2d) 1085, affirming per
curiam, 45 F. (2d) 911; Robinson v. Commissioner, 63 F.
(2d) 652; cert. den., 289 U. S. 758; Bushman v. United
States, 8 F. Supp. 694, cert. den., 295 U. S. 756. Cf.
Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497.
Entirely apart from the decedent's payment of premiums up to the time of his death, the rights of the wife
depended on outliving her husband. His death was the indispensable event giving rise to, or at least enlarging, valuable property rights in the wife, not theretofore possessed
or enjoyed. Klein v. United States, 283 U. S. 231, 234.
See also Guaranty Trust Co. v. Blodgett, 287 U. S. 509;
Sargent v. White, 50 F. (2d) 410; Hoblitzelle v. United
States, 3 F. Supp. 331; Union Trust Co. v. United States,
54 F. .(2d) 152, cert. den., 286 U. S. 547; Commissioner v.
Schwarz, 74 F. (2d) 712.
In the Connecticut policy there is an additional feature,
namely, the right of cash surrender. Under that policy
the insured had it within his power, for a period of thirty
days from May 22, 1893, and a similar period at the end
of each five years from that date, to wipe out all rights
under that policy and to obtain for himself the cash value
thereof. Until the moment of death, the beneficiary's interest depended not only- upon her surviving the insured,
but also upon his failure to live until the end of the five
year period, or if he should reach the end of the five year
period, upon his failure to exercise his power to cancel the
policy and receive the cash surrender value thereof.
The petitioners may point out, however, that the insured died February 27, 1921, and that the last five year
period before his death ended May 22, 1918. The possibility that the insured might live until May 22, 1923, and
then exercise his right of cash surrender was indeed a substantial obstacle to her rights. That obstacle was in
existence while the 1918 Act was in effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

When the insured's power to call for cash surrender
was last effective before his death, there was in existence
a comprehensive estate tax law. The mere fact that the
estate is being taxed under a later statute should be
immaterial on the question of retroactivity. Cf. Milliken
v. United States, 283 U. S. 15, 20 et seq. True, the earlier
law had no specific provision regarding insurance. But it
did present a comprehensive system of death taxes, and
was sufficient to put one on notice that transactions testamentary in character, hitherto unprovided for, might be
included in a later statute. It would, therefore, not be
arbitrary and capricious to include such testamentary
transactions in a later Act. Cf. Fawcus Machine Co. v.
United States, 282 U. S. 375, 379; Cooper v. United
States, 280 U. S. 409.
So construed, § 402 (f) is constitutional.
Life insurance is inherently testamentary in character.
The policies herein are particularly so because of the
contingent character of the beneficiaries' interests, and it
is therefore appropriate to include the proceeds in the
insured's gross estate.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves the construction and constitutionality, as applied, of § 402 (f) of the Revenue Act of 1918,
which provides that the value of the gross estate of the
decedent shall be determined by including the value, at
the time of his death, of all property "(f) to the extent
of the amount receivable by the executor as insurance
under policies taken out by the decedent upon his own
life; and to the extent of the excess over $40,000 of the
amount receivable by all other beneficiaries as insurance
under policies taken out by the decedent upon his own
life."

BINGHAM v. UNITED STATES.
211

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners are the executors of the will of King Upton,
who died in 1921 while the Act of 1918 was in force. His
wife survived him. Long prior to the passage of the Act,
a number of life insurance policies were issued to the
decedent, among them four issued by the Berkshire Life
Insurance Company of Massachusetts, originally payable
to his estate; and one issued in 1883 by the Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance Company of Connecticut, payable
to the wife of the decedent with a condition that in case
of the predecease of the wife the amount Qf the policy
should be payable to his children, or, if there be no children or descendants of children then living, to the legal
representatives of'the insured. In 1904, decedent assigned
the four Berkshire policies to his wife, "provided she survives me." The decedent had no power, none being reserved, to change the beneficiaries, to pledge or assign
the policies after the assignment to his wife, or revoke
that assignment, or surrender the policies without the
consent of the beneficiaries. Central Bank of Washington v. Iume, 128 U. S. 195, 205; Miles v. Connecticut
Life Ins. Co., 147 U. S. 177, 181, 182, 183, compare dissent p. 188; Commonwealth v. Whipple, 181 Mass. 343;
63 N. E. 919; Pingrey v. National Life Insurance Co., 144
Mass. 374, 382; 11 N. E. 562.
After having deducted the specific exemption of $40,000,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue included the proceeds of these five policies in the decedent's gross estate,
for the purpose of the federal estate tax. An action was
brought in a federal district court to recover the amount
of the tax resulting from the inclusion of these proceeds.
That court rejected the view of the commissioner and
awarded judgment to the taxpayers upon the authority of
Lewellyn v. Frick, 268 U. S. 238. 7 F. Supp. 907.
The court of appeals reversed, holding that the Frick
case was distinguishable. 76 F. (2d) 573. We think the
view taken by the district court is the correct one.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

1. Eleven policies were involved in the Frick case, all
antedating the passage of the act. Among them was one
issued by the Berkshire company and another issued by
the Connecticut Mutual. These policies in terms were
identical with the corresponding policies in question here.
The assignment of the Berkshire policy there was the
same as the assignments here. This court applied the
rule that acts of Congress are to be construed, if possible,
so as to avoid grave doubts as to their constitutionality;
and said that such doubts were avoided by construing the
statute as referring only to transactions taking place after
it was passed. In that connection we invoked the general
principle "that the laws are not to be considered as applying to cases which arose before their passage" when
to disregard it would be to impose an unexpected liability that, if known, might have been avoided by those concerned. The court below sought to distinguish the decision on the ground that this court did not refer to those
specific provisions set forth in the policies and assignments which are pertinent here. The government makes
the same point, and contends that since this court did
not allude to these provisions in the opinion, the decision
cannot be regarded as having passed on their effect. It
is true that questions which merely lurk in the record,
neither brought to the attention of the court nor ruled
upon, are not to be considered as having been so decided
as to constitute precedents. Webster v. Fall, 266 U. S.
507, 511. That, however, is not the situation in the
present case. In Lewellyn v. Frick the policies and assignments, in their entirety, were definitely before the
court; and this necessarily included each of the provisions
which they contained. Moreover, both in the appendix
to the government's brief and in the main brief of the
taxpayers, the attention of the court was distinctly called
to all of the provisions which are now invoked. The latter brief summarized and described the provisions of the

BINGHAM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

211

four classes of policies which were involved--one class
being policies, it was pointed out, made payable to the
Frick estate " subsequently assigned by Mr. Frick to his
wife or daughter if she survived him, without reserving
power to revoke the assignments." This court, without
stopping t) recite the various specific provisions that were
thus clearly brought to its attention, held that the proceeds of none of the policies were subject to the estate
tax under § 402 (f). It fairly must be concluded that-in
reaching that result these provisions were considered, and
that such of them as bore upon the problem, there as well
as here presented, were found not to require a different
determination. We think the points now urged by the
government were decided in the Frick case, and find no
reason to reconsider them.
2. The principles so recently announced by this court
in Helvering v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., ante, p. 39,
and Becker v. St. Louis Union Trust Co., ante, p. 48, are
decisive of the case in favor of the taxpayers. Those
principles establish that the title and possession of the
beneficiary were fixed by the terms of the policies and
assignments thereof, beyond the power of the insured to
affect, many years before the act here in question was
passed. No interest passed to the beneficiary as the result of the death of the insured. His death merely put
an end to the possibility that the predecease of his wife
would give a different direction to the payment of the
policies.
Judgment reversed.
MR.

MR.

JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE STONE, and
concur on the first ground stated

BRANDEIS,

JUSTICE CARDOZO

in this opinion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE concurs in this opinion, acquiescing
in the second ground because of the recent decisions in
the cases there mentioned.

