60

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

30 for which the intervenor contends cannot reasonably be
sustained. The counterclaim against the plaintiff was
rightly dismissed.
___________Affrmed.

RAYBESTOS-MANHATTAN, INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 20.

Argued October 22, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

Pursuant to a consolidation agreement, two corporations conveyed
their property to a new corporation in return for shares of its capital stock, issued not to the two corporations but directly to their
stockholders, in proportion to their hol'dings in those corporations.
Held-,
That the transaction was subject to a stamp tax under ยง 800 of
the Revenue Act of 1926, not only on the original issue of the
shares; but also on the transfers necessarily involved, whereby
the rights to receive the shares, inherent in the two corporations
by olieration of law, were transferred by the agreement to the
stockholders. P. 62.
80 Ct. Cls. 809; 10 F. Supp. 130, affirmed.

295 U. S. 727, to review a judgment of the
Court of Claims denying recovery of money exacted by
the United States as stamp taxes.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Charles H. LeFevre, with whom Mr. Howard S.
LeRoy was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. F. Prescott, with whom Solicitor 6Oeneral Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Mr. James

W. Morris were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case we granted certiorari to review a judgment
of the Court of Claims, to settle a doubtful point of fedetral law, of importance in the administration of the

RAYBESTOS-MANHATTAN CO. v. U. S.
60

61

Opinion of the Court.

revenue acts, and to resolve a conflict of the decision below with that of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in MacLaughlinv. Westmoreland Coal Co., 73 F. (2d)
1004, affirming 8 F. Supp. 963, on opinion below.
The question presented is whether the issue by petitioner of its shares of stock to the stockholders of two
other corporations in exchange for the assets of those corporations, pursuant to a plan for their consolidation, involved a "transfer" taxed by ยง 800 (A) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1926. 44 Stat. 9, 99, 101. The Court of
Claims held that it did, and denied recovery of the tax,
which petitioner had paid under protest. 80 Ct. Cls. 809;
10 F. Supp. 130.
Section 800, Schedule (A) (2) of the 1926 Act imposes a stamp tax at a specified rate on the original issue
of shares of corporate stock. By ยง 800 (A) (3) a like tax
is laid "On all sales, or agreements to sell, or memoranda
of sales or deliveries of, or transfers of legal title to shares
or certificates of stock or . . . of interest in property
. . . in any corporation, or to rights to subscribe for or to
receive such shares or certificates, whether made upon or
shown by the books of the corporation . . . or by any
paper or agreement or memorandum or other evidence of
transfer or sale . . ." Section 800 imposes liability for
.the tax upon the transferor, the transferee and the corporation whose stock is transferred.
Petitioner was organized under the laws of New Jersey as a step in carrying out a plan and agreement for the
consolidation of three other corporations. Two of the
corporations conveyed their property to petitioner in return for a specified number of its shares of capital stock;'
issued not to the two corporations, but directly to their
stockholders in proportion to their holdings. The Government and the taxpayer are not in accord as to the
precise interpretation to be placed upon the contracts
which resulted in the consolidation, but accepting the

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U. S.

taxpayer's contention for purposes of decision, we assume
that it was agreed by all concerned that the shares of peti-:
tioner were to be issued directly to the stockholders of the
two corporations without further intervention by the
latter.
Liability for the tax levied on the original issue of
stock is conceded,- but it is denied that the transaction
involved any taxable transfer within the purview of
Schedule (A) (3). It is said that the petitioner was subject to the tax imposed by this schedule only if there
was a transfer of the right to receive the stock to be
issued by petitioner for the assets of the two corporations;
that as neither of them was entitled, under the agreement,
to receive the certificates for the newly issued shares,
Which were to be issued directly to their stockholders,
neither corporation can be said to have transferred rights
to receive-stock. We think the statute is not to be read
so narrowly.
The stock transfer tax is a revenue measure exclusively.
Its language discloses the general purpose to tax every
.transaction whereby the right to be or become a shareholder of a corporation or to receive any certificate of
any interest in its property is surrendered by one and
vested in another. See Provost v. United States, 269
U. S. 443, 458, 459. While the statute speaks of transfers, it does not require that the transfer shall be directly
from the hand of the transferor to that of the transferee.
It is enough if the right or interest transferred is, by any
form of procedure, relinquished by one and vested in
another. Even the ownership of a share of stock, transfer of. which is admittedly taxed, is not transferred directly from one to another as is title to a chattel or to
real estate. Transfer of title to the shares is effected by
a form of novation by which the right of the shareholder
is surrendered to the corporation in return for its recognition of a new-shareholder designated by the transferor

RAYBESTOS-MANHATTAN CO. v. U. S.
60

63

Opinion of the Court.

and the issue to him of a new certificate of stock. It is
relinquishment of the ownership for the benefit of another, and the reiultant acquisition of it by him which
calls the statute into operation.
The subject of the tax is not alone the transfer of
ownership in shares of stock. It embraces transfers of
rights to subscribe for or receive shares or certificates,
whether made upon the books of the corporation "or by
any paper, agreement, or memorandum or other evidence
of transfer..." In the present case the generating
source of the right to receive the newly issued shares -of
petitioner was the conveyance to it of the property of
each of the corporations to be consolidated. The new
shares could not lawfully be issued to any other than
the grantor corporation without its authority, and that
authority could not be exercised for the benefit of third
persons other than its own assenting -stockholders. The
consolidation agreement thus imposed the duty on petitioner to issue the new shares upon receipt of the property, and at the same time made disposition to the stockholders of the two corporations of the correlative right
to receive the stock.
We think that this effective disposition of the right to
receive the stock involved a taxable transfer quite as
much as if the several legal relationships of the parties
had been established at different times and by separate
documents. It is not doubted that there would have been
a taxable transfer if each corporation had conveyed its
property to petitioner in exchange for its shares of stock
to be issued as the grantor might direct, and had later
ordered the certificates to be issued to its stockholders.
The reach of a taxing act whose purpose is as obvious as
the present is not to be restricted by technical refinements.
But we do not discern even a technical difference of any
significance between such a transaction and that now before us, where the same duty to issue the stock is created

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U. S.

and the same shift of the beneficiaries of it is effected
simultaneously in a single document. No convincing
reason is suggested why the Act should be thought to tax
the one and not the other.
The statute is thus not restricted in its application to
rights to demand delivery of the stock such as the agreement vested in the stockholders of the two corporations.
It embraces the more general one, inseparable from the
transaction by which the obligation to issue the stock was
created and -which inhered in the two corporations by
operation -of lav. Income is not any the less taxable income of the taxpayer because by his command it is paid
directly to another in performance of the. taxpayer's obligation to that other. See Douplas v. Willcuts, decided
this day, ante, p. 1; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716; United States v. Boston & Maine
R. R., 279 U. S. 732. Here the power to command the
disposition of the shares included the right to receive
them and the exercise of the power which transferred the
right is subject to the tax.
Affirmed.
DI GIOVANNI

v. CAMDEN FIRE INSURANCE ASSN.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOi THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28.

Argued October 23, 1935.-Decided November 11, 1935.

A fire insurance company sued two defendants in the federal district
court for the cancellation of two policies, one issued to both
defehdants, insuring a building, the other issued to one of them
insuring personal property in the building. The bill alleged that
defendants procured the policies by misrepresentations; caused the
property to be over-insured by the plaintiff and other insurers;
and then caused it to be destroyed by fire, all in execution of a.

