HELVERING v. WATTS.
Counsel for Parties.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. WATTS.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 184.

Argued November 20, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.

1,Where stockholders owning all of the shares of corporation A
exchanged them for stock in corporation B and mortgage bonds
of corporation A guaranteed by Corporation B, there was a "reorganization" under § 203 (h) (1) (A) of the Revenue Act of
1924, and by the effect of § 203 (b) (2) no taxable gain resulted; notwithstanding the A corporation continued in business.
Helvering v. Minnesota Tea Co., ante, p. 378. P. 388.
2. The transaction is within the description of reorganization set
forth by Article 1574 of Treasury Regulations 65, applicable to
the Revenue Act of 1924; and that this regulation is a proper interpretation of the Act is confirmed by the reenactment without
change by Congress of the paragraph to which it refers. P. 389.
3. The bonds were "securities" within the meaning of § 203 (b) (2)
of the Act. P. 389.
75 F. (2d) 981, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

t to review a judgment reversing a decision

of the Board of Tax Appeals, 28 B. T. A. 1056, which sustained a deficiency assessment of income taxes.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs.
James W. Morris and Sewall Key were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Samuel Seabury, with whom Messrs. John F. McCabe, James P. Quigley, and Robert J. Heberle were on
the brief, for respondents.
* Together with No. 185, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, v. Sicard, and No. 186, Helvering, Commissioner of In,
ternal Revenue, v. Sloane, both on writs of certiorari to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
t See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S

By leave of Court, Mr. Edward H. Green filed a brief
as amicus curiae, supporting the contentions of respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These causes involved deficiency assessments for income tax against the three respondents for the year
1924.
They were the sole stockholders of United States Ferro
Alloys Corporation-herein Ferro Alloys-and the causes,
alike in all essential particulars, were dealt with below
in one opinion.
The respondents maintain that they exchanged all
Lock of Ferro Alloys for shares of Vanadium Corporation
of America and bonds of Ferro Alloys guaranteed by
Vanadium; that these two corporations were parties to a
reorganization, and that under § 203 (b) (2), Revenue
Act, 1924, no taxable gain resulted. The Commissioner
insists that the transaction was a sale of all the stock of
the Ferro Alloys and therefore taxable gain resulted. The
applicable statutory provision is § 203, Revenue Act, 1924,
the pertinent parts of which are in the margin of the
opinion in Helveringv. Minnesota Tea Co., ante, p. 378.
In December, 1924, respondents owned all the stock of
Ferro Alloys Corporation. They exchanged this with the
Vanadium Corporation for stock of the latter valued at
$30 per share and for $1,161,184.50 mortgage bonds of
Ferro Alloys guaranteed by Vanadium. Ferro Alloys continued to conduct business until its dissolution in 1928.
Article 1574 ol Treasury Regulations 65 provided that
under the Act of 1924 no gain or loss shall be recognized
to the shareholders from the exchange of stock made in
connection with the reorganization, if two or more corporations reorganize, for example, by either the sale of the
stock of B to A, or the acquisition by A of a majority of
the total number of shares of all other classes of stock
of B.

G. & K. MFG. CO. v. HELVERING.
387

Syllabus.

The transaction here involved is within the description
of reorganization recognized by the Treasury Regulation
above quoted. And if the regulation can be taken as
properly interpreting the statute, the challenged judgment must be affirmed.
The court below recites the history of the Treasury
Regulation above quoted and concludes that, in view of
the reenactment of the paragraph to which it refers without change, Congress intended to approve the regulation
as written.
The Commissioner here maintains that the definition
of reorganization found in § 203 (h) (1) (A), Revenue
Act, 1924, should be limited to transactions which partake of the nature of mergers or consolidations and that
here the Vanadium merely made an investment in Ferro
Alloys stock and obtained only the rights of a stockholder
therein. It is also urged that an exchange of stocks for
bonds results in a substantial change of position and that
such bonds are " other property" within the meaning of
the statute and as such subject to tax. Much of the
argument presented is the same as the one considered in
the Minnesota Tea Company case, and it need not be
again followed in detail. The bonds, we think, were securities within the definition and cannot be regarded as
cash, as were the short term notes refeired to in Pinellas
Ice Co. v. Commissioner, 287 U. S. 462.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.
G. & K. MANUFACTURING CO. v. HELVERING,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 187.

FOR THE

Argued November 20, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.

1. A transfer by one corporation to another of substantially all of
its assets for cash and common stock of the transferee corporation

