LEGG v. ST. JOHN.
488

Syllabus.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question presented in this case is similar to that
involved in United States Trust Co. v. Commissioner,
decided this day, ante, p. 481. By amendments under a
reserved power, the terms of an original trust created by
John P. Wilson, in 1913, were altered with the intention
of creating three separate trusts. The Board of Tax Appeals, upon findings supported by evidence, concluded
that this purpose was accomplished and hence that there
was no deficiency. 29 B. T. A. 304. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the order' of the Board. 78 F. (2d)
787. We granted certiorari because of the conflict with
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the.Second Circuit, in the case -of the United States Trust Company, supra, 75 F. (2d) 973, and, for the reasons stated
in our opinion in that case, the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is
Affirmed.
LEGG v. ST. JOHN, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 54.

Argued November 18, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

1. The right of a bankrupt to receive future disability payments
under a contract with an insurance company having no cash surrender value, is not insurance within the meaning of § 70 (a) of
the Bankruptcy Act, and, if not exempted by the state law, passes
to his trustee in bankruptcy. P. 493.
Provision for the payment of disability benefits in connection
with life insurance was not introduced in the United States until
about twenty years after the pabsage of the Bankruptcy Act.
2. The fact that the disability benefits were provided for in a supplementary contract issued on the same day as, and physically

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

attached to, a policy of insurance on the obligee's life, did n ot
make them life insurance. P. 494.
3. The right to receive such disability benefits in the future, having
accrued before bankruptcy, is not after-acquired property but is
in essence an annuity purchased and paid for, which like other
property of the bankrupt, passes to the trustee unless exempted by
the law of the bankrupt's domicile. P. 495.
4. Such disability benefits are not exempted by the statutes of
Tennessee. P. 496.
76 F. (2d) 841, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 295 U. S. 728, to review the affirmance of
an order confirming a report of a referee in bankruptcy.
Messrs. Wm.Marshall Bullitt and Henry Roberts for
petitioner.
Mr. Robert Burrow and Mr. Clayton Scyphers, pro hac
vice, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether the bankrupt or his
trustee is the person entitled to future monthly disability
benefits payable under a contract entered into before the
adjudication.
On March 8, 1934, Legg, a resident of Tennessee, was,
on his petition, adjudged a bankrupt. He then' held a
policy in the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company by
which it agreed, in consideration of an annual premium
of $425.83, to pay upon his death either $24,000 in 240
monthly installments or the single sum of $17,452, as
commuted value. By a supplementary contract issued the
same day and attached to the policy, the company, for an
annual premium of $49.39, agreed, among other things, to
pay a monthly benefit of $174.52, upon due proof that
the insured had become totally and permanently disabled
before the age of 60. By this provision, if Legg was "pre-

LEGG v. ST. JOHN.
489

Opinion of the Court.

vented thereby from. engaging in any occupation and
performing any work for compensation or profit," the
company undertook to:
"1. Waive the payment of each premium falling due
under said Policy and this Supplementary Contract, and,
"2. Pay to the insured, or a person designated by him
for the purpose, or if such disability is due to, or is accompanied by, mental incapacity, to the beneficiary of record
under said Policy, a monthly income of $10 for each $1,000
of insurance, or of commuted value of instalments, if
any, under said Policy."
Legg had become totally and permanently disabled several years before the adjudication. The company had
treated its obligation as matured; had waived the payment of premiums on both the policy and the supplementary contract; and, until the adjudication, had paid
to him monthly the disability benefits. The bankrupt
asked to have the life insurance policy and also the future
disability benefits payable under the supplementary contract exempted from the operation of the assignment to
the trustee. The latter set aside as exempt the life insurance policy and its cash surrender value, but reported
that the obligation of the company to make the benefit
payments was an asset of the estate. The bankrupt excepted to the report in so far as it denied these to him.
The referee ruled that the right to receive them vested in
the bankrupt at the time of the adjudication; and that
this right given by the supplementary contract is not insurance within the meaning of the laws granting exemptions. He accordingly overruled the exception of the
bankrupt. But he directed that of the $174.52 payable
monthly, the bankrupt should receive $40 as income
exempt under the Tennessee law; and the trustee the balance, namely $134.52. The trustee acquiesced in the decision; the bankrupt sought review. The District Court confirmed the referee's order; and its judgment was affirmed

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 76 F. (2d) 841. This
Court granted certiorari, conflict in decisions being alleged. 295 U. S.728.
The bankrupt contends that the "Supplementary Contract" covering disability is not a separate and distinct
contract, but an integral part of the life insurance policy;
that the obligation to pay disability benefits is insurance
within the meaning of § 70 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act;
that it did not pass to the trustee, since that feature has
no cash surrender value; and that if it be held that the
contract for disability benefits has a cash surrender value,
its amount should be ascertained and the bankrupt be
given the opportunity, by paying such value to the trustee, to hold the obligation free from the claims of creditors. The bankrupt contends further that any future disability payments are in the nature of future earnings or
after-acquired property and, hence, do not pass to the
trustee. Finally, he insists that the obligation of the
company to pay disability benefits is property' exempt
under the law of Tennessee. All of these contentions are,
in our opinion, unsound.
The applicable statutes are these:
The Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat.
544, 548, provides, in § 6, that it shall not affect the allowance of exemptions to the bankrupt prescribed by the
laws of the State of his domicile; and in § 70 (a) that:
"when any bankrupt shall have any insurance policy
which has a surrender value payable to himself, his estate,
or personal representatives, he may, within thirty days
after the cash surrender value has been ascertained and
stated to the trustee by the company issuing the same,
pay or secure to the trustee the sum so ascertained and
stated, and continue to hold, own, and carry such policy
free from the claims of the creditors participating in the
distribution of his estate under the bankruptcy proceedings, otherwise the policy shall pass to the trustee as assets ..

LEGG v. ST. JOHN.
489

Opinion of the Court.

The Tennessee Code (1932) provides:
" 8456. Insurance on husband's life, effected by himself, goes to wife and children.-Any life insurance effected
by a husband on his own life shall, in case of his death,
inure to the benefit of his widow and children; and the
money thence arising shall be divided between them according to the statutes of distribution, without being in
any manner subject to the debts of the husband.
"8458. Life insurance or annuity for or assigned to wife
or children, or dependent relatives is exempt from claims
of creditors.-The net amount payable under any policy
of life insurance or under any annuity contract upon the
life of any person made for the benefit of, or assigned to,
the wife and/or children, or dependent relatives of such
person, shall be -exempt from all claims of the creditors of
such person arising out of or based upon any obligation
created after the effective dte of this Code, whether or
not the right to change the named beneficiary is reserved
by or permitted to such person."
First. As Legg had become totally and permanently
disabled before the adjudication, the company's obligation to make benefit payments monthly thereafter was
property of the bankrupt which passed to the trustee,
unless specially exempted by the law of Tennessee, or by
§ 70 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act. It was not exempted
by § 70 (a), because the obligation to pay disability benefits is not "insurance" within the meaning of that sectioi.
The term "insurance" as there used referred only to legal
reserve life insurance, the kind of insurance to which a
cash surrender value was a common incident. For such
value specific detailed provision is commonly made in life
policies. Compare Burlingham v. Crouse, 228 U. S. 459;
Cohen v. Samuels, 245 U. S. 50.1 The effect of the pro'The Legg policy contained a table of cash surrender values.

This

related to the separate obligation to pay the face of the policy on
death. It had no relation to the company's obligation under the

"Supplementary Contract" for disability benefits.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

vision in § 70 (a) is to assign to the trustee the cash
surrender value of the life insurance policy. Everett v.
Judson, 228 U. S. 474. No provision is made in the "Supplementary Contract" for a cash surrender value of the
obligations thereby assumed; and none is provided by
law or custom. Provision for the payment of disability
benefits in connection with such life insurance was not
introduced in the United States until about twenty years
after the passage of the Bankruptcy Act.'
Second. The fact that the disability benefits
are provided for in a "Supplementary

Contract" issued on the

same day as the policy and physically attached thereto
does not make them life insurance. The life policy and
the contract were executed as distinct instruments. The
"Supplementary Contract" was to operate for some purposes as if a part of the life policy.3 But for all other pur2Compare

In re Kern, 8 F. Supp. 246.

As early as 1910, some

companies had inserted in their policies a provision that if the insured
became "totally and permanently" disabled, payment of premiums
would be waived so long as such disability continued. See New York
Life Insurance Co. v. Edwards, 271 U. S. 109, 117, 118. A little later,
some companies introduced the provision that in case of total and
permanent disability the face of the policy would be paid in annual
instalments beginning after the accrual of disability-the amounts so
paid to correspondingly reduce the final amount of the policy payable
at death, so that the entire liability under the policy could be
extinguished even without death. Policies issued under the War Risk
Insurance Act, October 6, 1917, c. 105, 40 Stat. 398, provide in addition to payments of (say) $10,000 on death, monthly benefit payments up to $57.50, the aggregate to be deducted from the face of
the policy. It was not until about 1920 that provision was made
for the payment, in consideration of an additional premium, of
monthly disability benefits in addition to the full face of the policy at
death. See Hunter and Phillips, "Disability Benefits in Life Insurance Policies," Actuarial Study No. 5 (2nd ed.) Part 1, ch. I (1932);
Arthur Hunter, Papers on Disability Benefits, Eighth International
Congress of Actuaries (ff27), p. 83.
'It concludes: " The Supplementary Contract shall be deemed to
be a part of the above numbered Policy and the provisions-of said

LEGG v. ST. JOHN.
489

Opinion of the Court.

poses it is a separate obligation. The hazards covered by
the two instruments are obviously different. The beneficiaries differ also. The payment under the life policy
was to be made to the wife; ' the disability benefits are
to be paid to Legg himself. A separate and different premium was exacted for the obligations assumed in each
instrument. It was provided that forfeiture of the life
policy would terminate all rights arising from disability;
but the supplementary contract could be terminated by
Legg without affecting otherwise his life policy.
Third. The obligation of the company to pay disability
benefits in the future is not after-acquired property.- It is
property which was acquired by Legg long before the
adjudication, and fully paid for by the premiums paid
before the adjudication. Nor are the benefits payable
after the adjudication in any sense future earnings. They
are not the fruit of anything to be done by Legg after
the adjudication. The right to receive disability benefits
in the future does not differ from any other right acquired
before adjudication to receive money thereafter. It is in
essence an annuity purchased and paid for prior to the
adjudication. Like other property, it passed to the
trustee, unless exempted by the law of the bankrupt's
Policy concerning declarations and representations by the insured,
restrictions, payment of premiums, change of beneficiary, and assignment, are hereby referred to and b such reference made a part
hereof. No other provision of said Policy shall be held or deemed
to be a part hereof, except (a) The provision of the said Policy
as to incontestability shall apply hereto, but shall not preclude the
Company from requiring as a condition to recovery hereunder, due
proof'of such total and permanent disability as entitles him to the
benefits hereof. (b) The provision of said Policy as to reinstatement
shall apply hereto, except that this Supplementary Contract shall
not be reinstated unless said Policy is in force and no premium is
in default thereon, or unless said Policy is reinstated at the time of
reinstatement of this Supplementary Contract."
'Later, Legg changed the beneficiary to his children, reserving the
right to change the beneficiary thereafter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U-S.

domicile.5 The principle declared in Local Loan Co. v.
Hunt, 292 U. S. 234, is not applicable here.
Fourth. No statute of Tennessee exempts disability
benefits. Its law is, in some respects, more liberal to the
debtor than § 70 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act. Section 8456
provides that "any life insurance effected by a husband
on his own life shall, in case of his death, inure to the
benefit of his widow and children," free from claims of
the husband's creditors. This has been held to mean that
the cash surrender value, as well as the policy, is exempt.'
But there obviously was no intention to exempt this contract right which is not life insurance, or "the money
thence arising," since § 8456 is, in substance, a re-enactment of the statute passed in 1846. Section 8458, enacted
in 1925, and slightly modified since, is not applicable here.
It deals only with life insurance and annuity contracts
"made for the benefit of, or assigned to, the wife and/or
children, or dependent relatives." Even if a contract for
future disability benefits be deemed an annuity within
the meaning of that section, it does not apply, because
this contract to pay disability benefits was not made for,
and has not been assigned to, Legg's wife, his children, or
any dependent. The highest court of Tennessee has not
had occasion to decide whether future disability benefits
are exempt from claims of creditors; but the intermediate appellate court has held that the statute exempting
life insurance does not apply to disability benefits payable
'See In re Wright, 157 Fed. 544; In re Burtis, 188 Fed. 527; In re
Matschke, 193 Fed. 284; In re Evans, 253 Fed. 276. Compare In
re Baudouine, 96 Fed. 536; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Smith, 184 Fed.
1, 5; In re Balsier, 215 Fed. 134.
' See Dawson v. National Life Ins. Co., 156 Tenn. 306; 300 S. W.
567; In re Stansell, 8 F. (2d) 363; Grade, Exemption of Life Insurance Policies Under Tennessee Statutes, etc., 11 Tenn. Law Rev. 34.
Compare Lunsford v. Nashville S. & L. Corp., 162 Tenn. 179; 35
S.W. (2d) 395.

POSADAS v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.

497

Syllabus.

489

under a so-called health-insurance policy.
Robbins, 8 Tenn. App. 435, 437.

Cravens v.
Affirmed.

POSADAS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
CERTIORARI

TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 114. Argued December 11, 12, 1936.-Decided January 6, 1936.
1. Capital and deposit taxes levied by the Philippine Government,
in addition to the taxes permitted by R. S., § 5219, upon branches
of a national bank lawfully established in the Philippine Islands
under § 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, are invalid.
P. 499.
2. The Philippine Islands are a "dependency of the United States,"
within the meaning of § 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, originally
and as amended by the Act of September 7, 1916. Pp. 500, 502.
3. Section 26 of the Organic Act of August 29, 1916, which provides:
"That the laws now in force in the Philippines shall continue in
force and effect, except as altered, amended, or -modified herein,
until altered, amended, or repealed by the legislative authority
herein provided or by Act of Congress of the United States," is to
be taken distributively, i. e., as conferring power on the local legislature to deal only with local laws, and not to alter, amend, or
repeal any Act of Congress. P. 501.
4. The declaration of §§ 6 and 31 of the Philippine Organic Act of
August 29, 1916, continuing in force laws applicable to the Philippines which were not amended or repealed by that Act or in
conflict with any of its provisions, applies to § 25 of the Federal
Reserve Act of 1916. P. 501.
5. The Act of September 7, 1916, which amended § 25 of the Federal
Reserve Act "to read as follows," repeating the words of the original
section and adding a provision authorizing national banks to invest
in the stock of certain other banks, did not repeal and immediately
reenact the old provisions but left them continuously in force and
speaking from the time of their first enactment. P. 502.
6. Section 5 of the Philippine Organic Act of August 29, 1916, which
declares that the statutory laws of the United States "hereafter
33682 -36-

32

