U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
459

Syllabus.

after the reforms of the Judicial Code. The defendant,
setting up a legal defense, the bar of a release, would have
us force upon the plaintiff an equitable replication which
the plaintiff disavows. Accepting the disavowal, a court
of equity must decline at this stage to adjudicate the
validity of the release or its effect upon. the parties, leaving that issue along with others to adjudication at law.
In thus delimiting the issues we delimit at the same
time the scope of our decision. We do not attempt to say
whether the release will collapse upon the showing of an
illegal combination or will retain an independent life.
That is matter for the trial at law, where the bond between monopoly and surrender can be shown with certainty and fulness. Till then it will be best to put aside
as premature not a little that is said in the opinion of
the court below. Enough for present purposes that there
are issues triable at law, and none triable in equity. We
leave our ruling there.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BANK OF NEW YORK &
TRUST CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 195,

Argued December 18, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

1. The court first assuming jurisdiction over property may maintain and exercise that jurisdiction to the exclusion of other courts.
P. 477.
* Together with No. 196, United States v. President and Directors
of the Manhattan Co., and No. 197, United States v. Louis H. Pink.
Both cases were on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In No. 197, Mr. Louis H. Pink, Superintendent of Insurance of New York, was substituted by an order of
the court below for his predecessor in office, Mr. George S. Van
Schaick, the original defendant in that case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

2. This principle governs the state and federal courts and is so applied by this Court as to insure harmony and cohperation between
them. P. 477.
3. The principle is not restricted to cases where property has been
actually seized under judicial process before a second suit is instituted. It applies as well where suits are brought to marshal assets, administer trusts, or liquidate estates, and in suits of a similar nature, where, to give effect to its jurisdiction, the court must
control the property. P. 477.
4. The jurisdiction granted to the District Court over suits by the
United States, Jud. Code, § 24 (1); 28 U. S. C. 41, is not exclusive; and the propriety of its exercise in a given case is determined by the particular circumstances. P. 479.
5. Upon the state courts, equally with the courts of the Union,
rests the obligation to guard and enforce every right secured
by the Constitution and laws of the United States whenever
those rights are involved in any suit or proceedings before them.
P. 479.
6. In intervening to present a claim in proceedings in a state court,
the United States is a voluntary actor-not a defendant.
P. 480.
7. Separate funds which had been deposited with the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York by three Russian insurance companies to qualify them for local business were
liquidated and administered by him, under direction of the state
court, for the satisfaction of local claims and of other claims
that had been filed with him. In two of the cases, this administration was over, but the surpluses had, by order of court, been
deposited with local trust companies and proceedings were going
on in the state court to determine the rights of other creditors
and shareholders. In the other case, the statutory administration by the Superintendent was still in progress. In this posture,
the United States brought three suits in the federal court against
the three depositaries, respectively, in which it demanded accountings for and delivery of the funds in their hands. Its bills alleged
that the companies had been dissolved and their assets confiscated
by the Russian Government, and that that Government in connection with its recognition by this one in 1933, had assigned the
property in controversy to the United States. Held:
(1) That the statutory proceeding was essentially in rem, the
Superintendent being virtually a receiver. P. 475.

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

Statement of the Case.

(2) In the other two cases, the proceedings in the state court
were quasi in rem, control of the funds being essential to the
exercise of the court's jurisdiction to protect the rights of claimants. The funds being already in the hands of depositaries appointed by the court and subject to its direction, appointment
of receivers was unnecessary. P. 476.
(3) The suits of the Government were not merely in personam
to establish a right to share in property; their object was to
take the property from the depositaries and from the control
of the state court, and to vest it in the United States to the exclusion of all those whose claims were being adjudicated in the
state proceedings. P. 478.
(4) Whatever the effect of the recognition of the Russian Government, it did not terminate the state proceedings. The state
court still had control of the property, and questions as to the
rights of the parties who were before it, or of those who might
come before it, were legal questions which that court had jurisdiction to decide. P. 478.
(5) The fact that the complainant in the federal court is the
United States does not justify a departure from the rule which
would otherwise be applicable. The United States is free to invoke
the jurisdiction of the state court for the determination of its
claims, and the decision by the state court of any federal question
which may be presented upon such an invocation, may be reviewed
by this Court, and thus all the questions which the Government
seeks to raise in these suits may be appropriately and finally decided. Jud. Code, § 237; 28 U. S. C. 344. P. 479.
(6) The claimants in the state proceedings are entitled to be
heard and are indispensable parties to any proceeding for the disposition of the property involved; convenient and orderly administration of justice requires that the jurisdiction of the state court
should be respected. P. 480.
77 F. (2d) 866, 880, 881, affirmed.

CERTIORARI * to review decrees which affirmed in three
cases decrees of the District Court, 10 F. Supp. 269, dismissing bills brought by the United States for an accounting and delivery of funds in the custody of the respondents.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
33682 -36---30

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States

296 U. S.

Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Paul A. Sweeney, M. Leo Looney, Jr., and Alanson W.
Willcox were on the brief, for the United States.
The Soviet decrees dissolving these Russian insurance
corporations, appropriating their assets, and terminating
the rights of creditors and stockholders therein, transferred to the Soviet Government the New York assets of
the corporations, exceptsuch as were required to respond
to the claims of creditors within the statutory trust created by § 27 of the New York Insurance Law.
The dissolution of a corporation and the transfer of its
property are governed by the law of the State of incorporation.
Recognition operates retroactively and admits the validity of the decrees of the Soviet Government from the
date of the inception of that Government.
The decrees are not opposed to the public policy of the
United States.
The funds were transferred to the United States by the
Litvinoff assignment.
The federal court has original jurisdiction of these suits.
Jud. Code, § 24 (1). The general doctrine of priority of
jurisdiction is superseded by the specific provision of the
Judicial Code in cases such as these, wherein the actions
are brought by the United States. United States v. Inaba,
291 Fed. 416; United States v. McIntosh, 57 F. (2d) 573;
United States v. Babcock, 6 F. (2d) 160; United States v.
Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 222.
Should the decision below be affirmed, it would compel
the United States, as the only means of asserting its right
to this particular property, to enter its appearance in the
pending actions in the state court. So to limit the rights
of the United States is in practical effect to subject the
United States to suits without its consent.

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

Argument for the United States.

Furthermore, if the doctrine of the decision below
should prevail, it is conceivable that in an action pending
in a state court involving a res, the United States, should
it seek to assert its right to such res, would, for procedural reasons, be compelled to appear as a party defendant. It is beyond the competence of any officer of the
Government to bring in the United States as a party defendant in an action in a state court. Case v. Terrell, 11
Wall. 199; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255. In such a
situation, the United States would be powerless to maintain its rights.
The rule of priority of jurisdiction is not applicable because (1) the suits instituted by the United States in the
District Court are in personam. Should the decision of
the federal court be favorable to the claim of the United
States, it may be that the United States would be required to prove the claim in the state court proceedings.
But it does not follow that the federal court has no jurisdiction to adjudicate the rights of the United States.
Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank Co., 215 U. S. 33;
Riehle v. Margolies, 279 U. S. 218; Allen v. United States,
285 Fed. 678, 683; Chase Nat. Bank v. Sayles, 11 F. (2d)
948; Brown v. Duffin, 13 F. (2d) 708.
Furthermore, the proceedings in the state court are also
in personam.
Even assuming, contrary to Farrell v. Stoddard, 1 F.
(2d) 802, 803, that the state court acquired custody and
control of the property by virtue of the original liquidation proceedings, nevertheless, that court's authority in
the liquidation ended when the superintendent had paid
the domestic creditors and policyholders.
Any jurisdiction in the state court over the res was
lost when the state court relinquished the funds and
ordered them deposited in the Bank of New York &
Trust Company and the Manhattan Company, as agents
and depositaries of the insurance companies, under in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for the United States.

296 U.S.

structions to pay out only upon the order of "a court of
competent jurisdiction." Had the state court intended to
retain jurisdiction of the funds, it would have provided
that further payments could be made only "upon the further order of this court."
It is also to be noted that the deposit of the funds in
the Bank of New York & Trust Co., and the Manhattan
Company, subject to court order as noted above, was an
alternative to relinquishing the funds to the surviving drectors themselves. Matter of People (Northern Insurance Co.), 255 N. Y. 433, 435. Had the latter course
been adopted, it certainly could not be said that thereafter the state court still maintained its custody and
control of the res.
The state courts lacked jurisdiction to entertain suits
involving the disposition of the funds because at the time
when such suits were instituted the funds were the property of a sovereign which had not consented to be sued.
Whenever it appears in any litigation that the party
defendant, or a necessary party in interest, is a foreign
State or a foreign Sovereign, the courts should immediately refuse to assume or retain jurisdiction of the controversy. This is true whether the foreign Nation has
been recognized or not by the country before whose courts
the litigation is pending. Wulfsohn v. Russian Socialist
Federated Soviet Republic, 234 N. Y. 372, writ of error
dismissed, 266 U. S. 580. The foreign Sovereign is not
required to come into our courts and plead immunity.
Nankivel v. Omsk All Russian Government, 237 N. Y.
150.
It is apparent that at the time when the state suits
were instituted (which had for their purpose the disposition of the surplus assets of the dissolved Russian insurance companies) the funds in question were the property
of the Soviet Government, which was asserting its own.,

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

469,

Counsel for Parties.

ership, and that the New York courts were apprised of
that fact.
Furthermore, it definitely appears that all of the Russian insurance companies were nationalized and ceased to
exist as Russian corporations, by virtue of decrees of the
Soviet Government, prior to any proceedings now pending in the New York courts. Thus, in one case there was
no corporate plaintiff; in the second there was not any
corporate assignor; and in the third there was no corporation which could claim the surplus assets in the hands of
the Superintendent of Insurance. It therefore results that
any proceedings purported to have been instituted by any
of these nationalized Russian corporations could not have
giveli the court any jurisdiction, in rem or otherwise, over
the funds herein concerned.
Messrs. Frederick B. Campbell and Samson Selig argued the cause, and Mr. Campbell, with Messrs. Paul C.
Whipp and Lounsbury D. Bates, filed a brief, for the Bank
of New York & Trust Co., respondent in No. 195.
Mr. Hartwell Cabell, with whom Mr. Milton B. Ignatius was on the brief, for Assecuranz Union von 1865,
intervener-respondent in No. 195.
Mr. Robert J. Sykes, with whom Mr. E. W. McMahon
was on the brief, for the President and Directors of the
Manhattan Co., respondent in No. 196.
Mr. John M. Downes, with whom Mr. Alfred L. Green
was on the brief, for Pink, Superintendent of Insurance
of New York, respondent in No. 197.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows: By Mr. Borris M. Komar in behalf of Samuel
E. Morro et al.; by Messrs. Joseph M. Proskauer,Philip
A. Carroll, Otey McClellan, and J. Alvin Van Bergh, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

behalf of The National City Bank of New York; by
Messrs. Samson Selig and Mr. William F. Roche; and by
Mr. John W. Davis in behalf of the Guaranty Trust Company of New York. These briefs all supported the contentions of respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The United States, claiming to be the owner of certain
funds which originally had belonged to Russian insurance
companies, brought these suits for accounting apd delivery. The companies had made deposits with the
Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York in
order to obtain authority to transact business within the
State. The complaints alleged that in 1917, or 1918, the
companies had been dissolved, and their properties had
been "confiscated and appropriated," by decrees of the
Russian State. The claim of the United States is based
upon an assignment made by the Russian Government,
on November 16, 1933, in connection with the recognition
of that Government. Defendants hold the funds in question under orders and judgments of the state court in New
York, providing for liquidation and distribution.
In each case, defendants moved to dismiss the complaint for insufficiency and, in opposition to complainant's
motion for an interlocutory injunction restraining distribution, set up the proceedings of the state court. The
District Court denied the motions for injunction and dismissed the complaints upon the grounds (1) that the Russian decrees, by reason of their confscatory character,
were ineffective to vest in the Russian Government the
title to these funds situated in New York, and (2) that
these funds were not covered by the assignment to the
United States, 10 F. Supp. 269. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the jurisdiction of the state court should be
respected, and in that view affirmed the decrees of the Dis-

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

Opinion of the Court.

trict Court. 77 F. (2d) 866, 880, 881. Because of the
nature and importance of the questions presented, we
granted writs of certiorari, October 14, 1935.
The special facts of the three cases are these:
(1) The case against the Bank of New York and Trust
Company (No. 195) relates to the deposit made by the
Moscow Fire Insurance Company. By order of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, in 1925, the Superintendent of Insurance was appointed liquidator of the
United States branch of the company pursuant to § 63
of the state insurance law and creditors were enjoined
from pursuing their legal remedies against the .assets so
sequestered. The Superintendent of Insurance took possession of the assets and proceeded in the course of liquidation to satisfy the claims of domestic creditors and policyholders. There remained a substantial surplus.
Similar results followed the Superintendent's liquidation of the branches of other Russian companies, and the
disposition of the surplus assets was brought before the
Court of Appeals of New York. Creditors and policyholders with claims arising out of foreign business insisted
that the time had come when their claims should be enforcible. The insurance companies insisted that they
were still "juristic persons," that they were represented
by boards of directors competent to act, and were entitled
to possession subject to the remedies of creditors. The
court declined to sustain the position of the Superintendent that the surplus should be left in his hands indefinitely,-until the recognitibn of a Russian government.
As the Superintendent had fulfilled the statutory trust,
the court considered it to be no part of his duty to ascertain the validity of the claims that would be paid out of
the surplus "unless inequity would be done if the claimants were remitted to a remedy at law." Exceptions
were recognized where attachments or executions had
been levied before the date of liquidation and also where

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

proofs of claim had been filed and diligently pressed while
the Superintendent was still in charge and the injunction
was still in force. As the creditors so proving were acting
in response to an invitation-published in accordance
with the order of liquidation--to submit claims of every
kind without reference to the place of origin, and were
meanwhile stayed, the court thought that there would be
manifest inequity if at that late day they were remitted
to their legal remedies and compelled to prove anew. A
court of equity having assumed control over a fund might
continue to grant relief if justice so required. But the
court took the view that after the liquidator had made
provision for the payment of claims already filed, the surplus then remaining "should be paid to the corporations,
represented by directors, a quorum of the board." Matter of People (Russian Reinsurance Co.), 255 N. Y. 415,
420-424; 175 N. E. 114, 117.
The Moscow Fire Insurance Company, however, had
been left with but one director; and although he might be
treated as a "conservator" of the property of his company
when there were assets within the State "that might
otherwise be lost," the Court of Appeals was of the opinion that a measure of discretion should be exercised by a
court of equity "before surrendering possession." Exercising that discretion the court directed that the delivery
of the assets in the case of that company should be conditioned upon the execution of a bond to the People of the
State in a sum equal to the value of the assets delivered,
with a condition that the director should faithfully apply
the assets to the use of the corporation, its creditors and
shareholders. In the event of inability or failure to give
the bond, the court directed that delivery should be made
to a trust company "as agent or depositary" upon the
stipulation of the insurance. company and its "conservator" that the fund would "not be withdrawn except upon
the order of a court of competent jurisdiction." Matter of

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

Opinion of the Court.

People (Moscow FireInsurance Co.), 255 N. Y. 433, 435;
175 N. E. 120, 121. On the remittitur of the Court of Appeals, judgment was entered in the Supreme Court of the
State on August 11, 1931, and provided, in the stated alternative, that the Superintendent should deliver the surplus assets to the Bank of New York and Trust Company.
The Moscow Company and Paul Lucke, "its sole surviving director and conservator," took advantage of this alternative and gave the required stipulation, whereupon
the Trust Company received the surplus assets, oi about
$1,000,000, on April 18, 1933.
Immediately-on April 19, 1933-the Moscow Company and Lucke brough suit in the Supreme Court of the
State to determine the disposition of these assets, including the determination of the claims of creditors. A second suit was brought in June, 1933, by a shareholder of
the Moscow Company. In October, 1933, the first of
these suits was referred to a referee to hear and determine,
and later the two suits were consolidated. Trial was had
before the referee and proofs of claims of various creditors
and shareholders of the Moscow Company were submitted. On August 13, 1934, when the referee was about
to file his report, the United States Attorney presented to
the referee a proof of claim of the United States to the
entire fund,-based upon the assignment of November
16, 1933, by the Russian Government. Apparently the
claim was not pressed and an understanding was reached
that the referee would withhold his report until August
21, 1934, and that the United States would meanwhile
determine in what manner it would assert its claim,
whether by intervention in a proceeding in the state court
or by suit in the federal court. The referee made no mention of the claim in his report, which was filed on August
22, 1934.. Judgment was at once entered upon the report
directing payment of the claims of creditors as allowed by
the referee and, after making reservation for future claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

and expenses, ordering the distribution of the residue in
liquidating dividends to the shareholders of the Moscow
Company. There was also provision that any shareholder,
or any party to the action, or successor in interest, might
apply at the foot of the judgment for further directions.
On the same day the United States brought the present
suit.
(2) The case against the President and Directors of the
Manhattan Company (No. 196) relates to the Northern
Insurance Company of Moscow. Under an order of the
state court, in 1926, the Superintendent of Insurance
took possession of the assets of the United States branch
of the company. The statutory liquidation was completed. But as the company was left with but two directors, provision was made in April, 1931-under the decision of the Court of Appeals of New York-for the
delivery of the surplus assets to a trust company, in case
the required bond was not given. Matter of People
(Northern Insurance Co.), 255 N. Y. 433, 435; 175 N. E.
120. In the following year an assignment for the benefit
of creditors was made on behalf of the Northern Insurance Company to the Bank of Manhattan Trust Company, the predecessor in interest of the defendant in the
present suit. Pursuant to a decision of the Court of Appeals on reargument (Matter of People (Northern Insurance Co.), 262 N. Y. 453; 188 N. E. 17): judgment was
entered, on June 6, 1933, in the Supreme Court of the
State directing the Superintendent of Insurance to deliver the surplus assets to the Bank of Manhattan Trust
Company "as agent or depositary" to be held subject to
the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The delivery was made, the amount being upwards of $245,000.
On November 13, 1933, the state court directed the President and Directors of the Manhattan Company, as successor in interest, to transfer the fund to itself "as assignee foi' the benefit of creditors of the Northern Insur-

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

475

Opinion of the Court.

ance Company of Moscow." In July, 1934, the state
court appointed a referee to take and state the account
of the assignee, and to take proof and report as to the
claims of creditors and those entitled to share in the disposition of the fund. That proceeding was in progress
when the present suit by the United States was begun on
August 25, 1934.
(3) The third case (No. 197) relates to the assets of
the United States branch of the First Russian Insurance
Company, which the state court, in 1925, placed in the
hands of the Superintendent of Insurance as liquidator.
This case differs from the others in that the Superintendent is still in possession. After the payment of domestic
creditors, the surplus assets were retained by the Superintendent under the order of the state court for the purpose
of satisfying valid claims founded upon foreign business,
where proofs of claim had been filed with him during the
statutory liquidation. Matter of People (First Russian
Insurance Co.), 255 N. Y. 415, 423; 175 N. E. 114. It
appears that some of these foreign claims had been
allowed by the liquidator and payments on account had
been made under orders of the state court, and that other
claims which the liquidator had disallowed were being
heard before a referee appointed by the state court, when
the United States brought the present suit on November
14, 1934. The Government states that the fund then held
by the Superintendent amounted to over $1,000,000.
First. When the state court directed the Superintendent of Insurance to take possession of the assets of the
United States branches, and to conserve those assets until
its further order, the court took jurisdiction of the res.
While the superintendent was a statutory liquidator, he
took possesion under the direction of the court and the
fund was at all times subject to the court's control. The
proceeding was essentially one in rem and the Superintendent was protected by a sweeping injunction in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

unimpeded liquidation of the sequestered property. Matter of People (Russian Reinsurance Co.) supra, p. 420.
Under § 63 of the state statute (Insurance Law; Cons."
Laws, c. 28), the liquidator had rights and duties such as
had previously "been exercised by and imposed upon
ancillary receivers of foreign corporations." Id., p. 424.
When the statutory trust was satisfied by the payment
of domestic creditors and policyholders, it did not follow
that the remaining assets were automatically released and
the state court was ipso facto shorn of its jurisdiction.
The court still had control of the property and necessarily had the pertinent equitable jurisdiction to decide
whht should be done with it. In such a case, the court
might direct that the surplus assets should be remitted to
a domiciliary receiver-if there were one--on appropriate conditions. Matter of.People (Norske Lloyd Insurance Co.), 242 N. Y. 148; 151 N. E. 159. Or the court
might direct further liquidation, in order to provide for
the payment of other claims, if that course appealed to
the sense of equity in the particular circumstances. Matter of People (Russian Reinsurance Co.), supra, p. 423.
The latter action was taken and the Superintendent of
Insurance was continued in possession of the assets subject to the control of the court. He was virtually its
receiver for the purposes specified. In No. 197, the Superintendent still holds possession by virtue of that authorization and the res thus remains under the court's
jurisdiction.
In the other two cases (Nos. 195 and 196) the Superintendent completed the additional liquidation and turned
over the remaining assets to the designated depositaries.
To safeguard all rights in the funds, they were not to be
withdraw:i from the depositaries except upon a court
order. We need not pause to inquire as to the effect of
that limitation, for, if jurisdiction was relinquished, it was
soon resumed. On the very next day, in the case of the

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

Opinion of the Court.

Moscow Fire Insurance Company, suit was brought in its
name, and by the sole surviving director and conservator,
against the depositary and those alleged to be creditors
and shareholders of the insurance company, to determine
the disposition of the fund. Claims of creditors and shareholders were in course of adjudication in that proceeding
when the present suit was brought. At that time, also,
in the case of the Northern Insurance Company, the depositary-which had received an assignment for the benefit of creditors-was accounting in the state court for the
fund in its hands and the claims of creditors and of those
entitled to share in the fund were being heard.
In both these cases the proceedings in the state court
were quasi in rem. Control of the funds was essential to
the exercise of the court's jurisdiction to protect the rights
of claimants. It was not necessary for the court to appoint receivers, as the funds were already in the hands of
depositaries appointed by the court and subject to its
direction. The principle, applicable to both federal and
state courts, that the court first assuming jurisdiction over
property may maintain and exercise that jurisdiction to
the exclusion of the other, is not restricted to cases where
property has been actually seized under judicial process
before a second suit is instituted. It applies as well where
suits are brought to marshal assets, administer trusts, or
liquidate estates, and in suits of a similar nature, where, to
give effect to its jurisdiction, the court must control the
property. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Lake Street Elevated R. Co., 177 U. S. 51, 61. If the two suits are in
rem or quasi in rem, so that the court must have possession or control of the res in order to proceed with the
cause and to grant the relief sought, the jurisdiction of
one court must of necessity yield to that of the other.
Penn General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S.
189, 195. This principle is applied in the discharge of the
long recognized duty of this court to give effect to such

478

OCTOBER TERM, 19351
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

"methods ot procedure as shall serve to conciliate the distinct and independent tribunals of the States and of the:
Union, so that they may cooperate as harmonious members of a judicial system coextensive with the United
States." Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, 595. See also,
Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612, 625; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall.
334, 341; Wabash R. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S.
38, 54; Palmer v. Texas, 212 U. S.118, 129; Lion Bonding
Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S.77, 89; Harkin v. Brundage, 276
U. S.36, 43.
The Government urges that the present suits for an
accounting are not suits in rem but in personam; and that
to allow the federal court to pass upon the right asserted
would not necessarily interfere with the jurisdiction or
control by the state court. over the res. See Kline v.
Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226, 230. But these
suits are not to enforce a personal liability but to obtain
possession of the respective funds. The suits are not
merely to establish a debt or a right to share in property,
and thus to obtain an adjudication which might be had
without disturbing the control of the state court. Compare Waterman v. Canal-LouisianaBank Co., 215 U. S.
33, 44-46; Riehle v. Margolies, 279 U. S.218, 223, 224.
Complainant demands that the depositaries account and
pay over to the complainant, as "the sole and exclusive
owner," the entire funds in their hands. Thus the object of the suits is to take the property from the depositaries and from the control of the state court, and to vest
the property in the United States to the exclusion of all
those whose claims are being adjudicated in the state
proceedings.
The. Government also insists that the courts of the
State had lost jurisdiction of the funds, prior to the time
when the present suits were begun, by reason of the fact
that the funds were the property of the Russian Government which our Government had recognized. But, what-

U. S. v. BANK OF NEW YORK CO.
463

Opinion of the Court.

ever the effect of recognition, it is manifest that it did not
terminate the state proceedings. The state court still had
control of the property and questions as to the rights of
the parties who were before it, or of those who might
come before it, were legal questions which the court had
jurisdiction to decide.
Second. The fact that the complainant in these suits
is the United States does not justify a departure from
the rule which would otherwise be applicable. The Government invokes § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C.
41) which confers jurisdiction upon the District Court to
entertain all suits of a civil nature brought by the United
States. The Government insists that the United States
is entitled to have its claim determined in its own courts.
But the grant of jurisdiction to the District Court in suits
brought by the United States does not purport to confer
exclusive jurisdiction. It is a general rule that the grant
of jurisdiction to one court does not, of itself, imply that
the jurisdiction is to be extrclusive. See Gittings v. Crawford, Taney's Dec. 1; Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 464;
Plaquemines Fruit Co. v. Henderson, 170 U. S. 511, 517,
518; Merryweather v. United States, 12 F. (2d) 407, 409,
410. Upon the state courts, equally with the courts of the
Union, rests the obligation to guard and enforce every
right secured by the Constitution and laws of the United
States whenever those rights are involved in any suit or
proceedings before them. Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S.
624, 637. In this instance it cannot, be doubted that the
United States is free to invoke the jurisdiction of the state
court for the determination of its claim, and the decision
of the state court of any federal question which may be
presented upon such an invocation, may be reviewed by
this Court and thus all the questions which the Government seeks to raise in these suits may be appropriately
and finally decided. Jud. Code, § 237, 28 U. S. C. 344.

480

OCTOB9ER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

The statutory grant of jurisdiction to the District
Court leaves open the question of the propriety of its exercise in particular circumstances. Even where the District Court has acquired jurisdiction prior to state proceedings, the character and adequacy of the latter proceedings in relation to the administration of assets within
the State, and the status of those assets, may require in
the .proper exercise of the discretion of the federal court
that jurisdiction should be relinquished in favor of the
state administration. Pennsylvaniav. Williams, 294 U. S.
176, 185; Gordon v. Ominsky, 294 U. S. 186, 188; Penn
General Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania; supra, p. 197. In
the instant cases, not only had the state court first acquired jurisdiction, but there are numerous persons whose
claims in relation to these funds are in course of adjudication. Whether or not their claims are valid against the
claim of ownership by the United States, they are entitled
to be heard and they are indispensable parties to any proceeding for the disposition of the property involved.
They have not been made parties to the present suits, and
this fact in itself would be a sufficient reason for the District Court to refuse to proceed in their absence. Only
the stakeholders are defendants. The adverse claimants
are parties to the respective proceedings in the state court
and from every point of view the principles governing the
convenient and orderly administration of justice require
that the jurisdiction of the state court should be
respected.
There is no merit in the suggestion that the United
Staves, in presenting its claim in the state proceedings,
would be compelled to take the position of a defendant,being' sued without its consent. In intervening for the
presentation of its claim, the United States would be an
actor-voluntarily asserting what it deemed to be its
rights-and not a defendant. We cannot see that there
would be impairment of any rights the United States may

U. S. TRUST CO. v. COMMISSIONER.

481

Syllabus.

463

possess, or any sacrifice of its proper dignity as a sovereign, if it prosecuted its claim in the appropriate forum
where the funds are held.
As we are dealing simply with the question of tife exercise of jurisdiction by the District Court, we intimate no
opinion upon the merits.
The decrees are
_Affirmed.

UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY OF NEW
YORK, TRUSTEE, v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 169.

Argued December 17, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

A trust created by a father for his three children, providing inter
alia that each of them should receive one-third of the net income
and upon termination of the trust one-third of the principal of
the trust estate, was amended, as permitted by the indenture, to
declare that the estate should be divided into three separate and
* equal shares, to which might be assigned undivided interests in the
whole or any part of it; that such shares should be designated
by the respective names of the three beneficiaries, and that each
of the beneficiaries should have the same rights, interest and power
in and over his share and the income thereof as was given to them,
respectively, by the original trust instrument over one-third of
the trust estate. The object of the amendment was to divide
the trust into three separate trusts in order to reduce liability for
income taxes. The cash and property of the trust were accordingly
transferred on the books of the trustee, in equal shares, to three
new accounts, one for each of the beneficiaries; income, disbursements, and new principal were entered in this same way; and the
accounts of the single trust were closed. Held:
1. That the single trust had been converted into three in accordance with the intention of the parties. P. 486.
2. It was not necessary that the cash and securities should
be physically divided. P. 487.
33682 o36-

31

