OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus. "

296 U.S.

venience and certainty. That is to say, by carrying the
full text forward, the task of searching out and bringing
together the various fragments which go to make up the
* completed whole, after specific eliminations or additions
by amendment, is rendered unnecessary; and possible
doubt as to the precise terms of the law as amended is
avoided. Or, as Chief Judge Denio said in Ely and others
v. Holton, supra"In short, we attribute no effect to the plan of dovetailing the amendment into the original section, except
the one above suggested, of preserving a harmonious text,
so that when future editions shall be published the scattered members shall easily adjust themselves to each
other."
It follows that such parts of the original § 25 as were
copied into the amended section were not thereby repealed and immediately reiinacted, but continued, uninterruptedly, to be the law after the amendment precisely
as they were before. Section 5 of the Organic Act of 1916,
supra, which in terms relates only to laws thereafter enacted, must be put aside as not applicable.
Judgment affirmed.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF PUERTO RICO
v. IIAVEMEYER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 115.

FOR THE

Argued December 12, 13, 1935.-Decided January 6, 1936.

1. By grant of the Executive Council of Puerto Rico a limited partnership was entitled (among other privileges) to dam the outlet
of a lake and use the impounded water in the irrigation of its
own land, subject to the condition, imposed to protect private
lands, public roads and the public health from the injurious effects
of overflows, that the lake should not be raised above a level
prescribed. Held a grant of quasi-public nature, within the mean-

COMMISSION v. HAVEMEYER.
506

Syllabus.

ing of provisions of the Organic Acts for Puerto Rico of 1900 and
1917. P. 514.
2. Every franchise is subject to be revoked by the proper public
authority for breach of a condition, express or implied, upon which
the grant depended. P. 515.
3. Revocation of a franchise for breach of condition may be by any
procedure not repugnant to established principles of justice; and
they are satisfied if the withdrawal of the privilege, declared by
executive or legislative authority, may be followed by an appeal
to a court of competent jurisdiction, in which the rights of the
holder may be determined. P. 515.
4. Reservation in the Organic Acts of power in Congress to annul
or modify grants of franchises in Puerto Rico does not imply a
withholding of such power from the local authorities. P. 515.
5. Under the Organic Acts for Puerto Rico and Act No. 70, 1917,
of the local legislature, the Public Service Commission was authorized to cancel the franchise, involved in this case, granted by the
earlier Executive Council, both under the power to amend, alter
and repeal, which was expressly reserved, and under the implied
power to revoke for breach of condition. P' 516.
6.A reserved power to repeal a grant of special privileges may be
exercised at the pleasure of the legislature or other authority in
which it is vested; but the power to cancel for condition broken
cannot be exerted without allowing the holder an opportunity to
have the asserted default judicially determined. P. 517.
7. Upon review under Act No. 70, 1917, of Puerto Rico of an order
of the Public Service Commission canceling a franchise for breach
of condition, the Insular district and the supreme courts are confined to the questions whether the order was (1) reasonable, i. e.,
not capricious, arbitrary, or confiscatory; (2) in conformity with
law; and (3), based upon incompetent evidence; and the court
may decide the questions of law and affirm or reverse, or may
remand the record to the commission for further action; but it
cannot amend or modify the commission's order. Held:
(1) These functions are strictly judicial. P. 516.
(2) The Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit has
jurisdiction to review the decision of the Insular Supreme Court
on the reasonableness of the commission's order. P. 517.
8. Objection, first made in the Circuit Court of Appeals, that appeals
from an administrti
otier canceling a franchise 6wned by a
limited partnership in Puerto Rico were not taken by the parties
in interest, because the respondent in the administrative proceeding

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

was the partnership, described as composed of certain individuals,
whereas the abpeals were taken in the names of the individuals as
members of the partnership,-held (1) too late, and also (2)
without merit. P. 518.
9. An answer on the merits admits the actor's capacity to sue. P. 519.
10. The facts in this record support the conclusion of the Public
Service Commission and the Insular courts that the holder of the
frauchise, by failing to keep clear the outlet of the lake, over which
it had 6ontrol, and thus allowing the waters to rise above the limits
specified in the franchise, was responsible for a long-continued
overflow resulting in damage to public and private property; and
the order canceling the franchise is not shown to be capricious,
arbitrary, or otherwise contrary to law. P. 520.
74 F. (2d) 637, reversed.

CERTIORARI

*

to review the reversal of a judgment of-the

Supreme Court of Puerto Rico sustaining an order of the
Public Service Commission oanceling a franchise.
Mr. William Cattron Rigby, with whom Mr. Benjamin
J. Horton, Attorney General of Puerto Rico, and Mr.
Nathan R. Margold were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ralph S. Rounds for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
March 19, 1901, the executive council of Puerto Rico
granted to the Guanica Land Company, a New Jersey corporation, assignable franchises including the privilege to
take water from Guanica Lake for he irrigation of the
company's lands. Russell & Company, Sucesores, Sociedad en Comandita, a limited civil agricultural partnership
composed of Havem eyer and the other respondents as
partnets, succeeded to that privilege. March 8, 1929, the
public service comnission of Puerto Rico made an order
canceling it. The district court of San Juan and the supreme court successively sustained the order. Respond* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

COMMISSION v. HAVEMEYER.
506

Opinion of the Court.

ents' final appeal was to the Circuit Court of Appealp; it
held the order unreasonable, reversed the judgment of the
supreme court and remanded the case for further proqeedings. 74 F. (2d) 637.
Notwithstanding absence of cross petition, we may consider respondents' insistence that the commission was
without authority to make the order. Langnes v. Green,
282 U. S. 531, 536-538. The petition presents two questions: Whether the Circuit Court. of Appeals, a constitutional court of the United States, has jurisdiction to review the commission's order; whether the six individual
respondents here are parties in interest entitled to appeal.
There is another question adequately raised by the petition though not specified formally as are the others or
presented in accordance with the best practice. It is
whether the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding the
order to be unreasonable and in reversing upon that
ground the judgment of the supreme court.
The Organic Act of 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat. 77, authorized
the creation of an executive council, § 18, and provided:
"That all grants of franchises, rights, and privilege or
concessions of a public or quasi-public nature shall be
made by the executive council, with the approval of the
governor, and all franchises granted in Porto Rico shall be
reported to Congress, which hereby reserves the power to
annul or modify the same." § 32. The Joint Resolution
of May 1, 1900, § 3, 31 Stat. 716, required that all such
grants "shall provide that the same shall be subject to
amendment, alteration, or repeal."
The franchise, in addition to conferring the privilege of
using the water of Guanica Lake for irrigation of their
lands, authorized the grantees to construct a wharf in, and
to build and operate a railroad along, the harbor of Guanica bay into which flow the waters of the lake. The
irrigation privilege is the only one here involved; its substance follows: The grant was for 99 years and extended

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

to the land company, its successors and assigns. They
were authorized to construct and operate a dam across the
outlet for the purpose of regulating the flow of the water
from the lake. They were given the right to take up to
20,000,000 gallons a day from the outlet or elsewhere; by
gravity, through channels or by pumps, and to construct
and operate works therefor. The franchise declared that
nothing therein should-be construed to permit grantees to
raise or maintain the height of the lake above its customary level during the rainy season in years of average and
usual rainfall, and they were declared liable for all damage sustained by abutting owners by reason of 'unduly
raising the waters. They were authorized to acquire by
eminent domain private lands needed for their works, and
were required to have plans for the same approved by the
commissioner of the interior before commencing work.
They were required to pay $300 per year for the irrigation privilege, and in case of. default the commissioner
might stop the flow of the water. It was provided "that
the franchises, privileges and concessions hereby granted,
shall be subject to amendment, alteration or repeal."
The Second Organic Act, approved March 2, 1917,
c. 145, 39 Stat. 951, declares the authority of the legislature shall extend "to all matters of a legislative character not locally inapplicable," § 37, but expressly reserves
to Congress the power to annul acts of the legislature.
§ 34. The Act also creates a public service commission
and declares that all grants of franchises, rights, and privileges of a public or quasi-public nature shall be made by
it but not to be effective until approved by the governor
and to be subject to the power of Congress "to annul or
modifythe same." § 38. It requires such grants to provide that they shall be subject to amendment, alteration
or repeal. § 39. Section 38 was by § 6, Act of March 4,
1927, amended to empower and direct the commission to
discharge such additional duties and functions as might
be conferred upon it by the legislature. 44 Stat. 1420.

COMMISSION v. HAVEMEYER.
506

Opinion of the Court.

The Laws of Puerto Rico, 1917, Act No. 70, requires
that all grants of franchises shall be subject to amendment, alteration 6r repeal by the commission (§ 54), and
declares that it shall have power to alter, amend, modify
or repeal any franchise that may have been granted by
the executive council and shall exercise all the rights and
powers reserved to the executive council by any such
franchise or privilege or by any law. § 60.
Act No. 70 also regulates the commission's procedure
and the appeals from its orders. The testimony before
the commission must be taken -down. § 68. Any party
to the proceedings thereby affected may appeal from its
orders to the district court of San Juan. Petitions for
appeals include assignments of errors. § 78. The commission is brought in as party defendant; upon the filing
of its answer, the case is at issue. The commission is required to certify to the court its proceedings including the
testimony, findings, opinions and orders. § § 79-82. No
evidence may be taken on appeal. § 86. The court is
required"to determine whether the order appealed from is
reasonable and in accordance with law. § 83. If found
to be so, the court must dismiss the appeal and affirm the
order. If found unreasonable or based upon incompetent
evidence or otherwise not in conformity with law, the
court must reverse the order or remand to the commission.
§ 85. A party aggrieved by the final judgment of the
district court may appeal to the supreme court in the
same manner and form as in other cases. § 90. Appeal
from the judgment of that court is to. the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit. Judicial Code, § 128 (a)
(Fourth). 28 U. S. C., § 225 (a) '(Fourth). The attorney general is required, upon request of the commission,
to proceed by mandamus, injunction or quo warranto to
enforce the commission's orders. § 94.
February 24, 1928, the municipality of Lajas complained to the commission and to the commissioner of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

interior that the works of the holders of the irrigation
privilege were causing irreparable damage by raising
waters of the lake above the levels specified in the fran-:
chise and thereby flooding privately owned lands and
public roads. The commissioner investigated and to the
governor reported: Apparently the situation was created
by violation of the provisions of the franchise. The holders failed to submit plans as required. The customary
levels of the lake mentioned in the franchise have not
been determined. The company has borne none of the
damages. There was sufficient cause to'request the commission to consider repealing the franchise. The governor referred the report to the commission. It called on
the parties interested to show cause why it should not
totally cancel the franchise.
The South Porto Rico Sugar Company, interested in
other privileges, and Russell & Company, holder of the
irrigation privilege,, appeared specially and objected to the
jurisdiction of the commission. Before answering the rule
to show cause, they brought a suit in the United States
Court for Puerto Rico to enjoin the comxaission from asserting any jurisdiction over them in respect of the franchise. The court dismissed the bill on the grounds that
the suit was premature and that the commission had jurisdiction. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. South
Porto Rico Sugar Co. v. Munoz, 28 F. (2d) 820.
Russell & Company, by its answer to the order to show
cause, admits that the water of the lake has been higher
than the usual level and has flooded some lands, asserts
that it was not raised by the fault of any owners of the
franchise, alleges that the 'olders have spent large sums
for works for the taking ot water and that cancelation
would cause it great loss, maintains that the commission
has no jurisdiction over it and says that, although the
partnership had no obligation so to do, it has (since the
order to show cause) at its own expense taken steps to

COMMISSION v. HAVEMEYER.
506

Opinion of the Court.

lower the waters of the lake to, and also to guarantee that
in the' futurethey will not go beyond, customary levels.
Shortly after this answer was interposed, the commission, upon consideration of conditions then existing in and
near the flooded area, found partial drainage to be immediately feasible and, by an interlocutory order, called on
the holders of the irrigation privilege to prepare a draft of
works to lower the level of the lake in order to relieve the
overflowed district. The record before us. discloses no
response or action by the holders.
There was a hearing upon the issues raised by the order
to show cause and the answers filed by interested parties.
Russell & Company appeared and was heard; much evidence was received. The commission canceled the franchise but only in respect of the irrigation privilege. The
report made by the president of the commission shows:
The holders of the irrigation privilege controlled the
lands through which the water had been accustomed to
flow from the lake to the bay. They allowed to accumulate in the outlet soil and debris, for a distance of 100
yards or more, which held back the waters and caused
overflow on an opposite side of the lake. From about the
middle of 1926 until late in 1928 the waters so raised continued to flood thousands of acres including entire farms
and seven or eight kilometers of public roads in the Lajas
Valley and so caused damage to private owners and to the
community in general.
The district court deemed itself required to decide only
whether the order was reasonable and in accordance with
law. There was no claim that it rested on incompetent
evidence. Upon the record of proceedings, including the
evidence introduced before the commission, it held: Under
the franchise the holders of the irrigation privilege assumed control of the flow from the lake through the outlet to the bay and had power to raise or lower the level
of the waters. They failed to comply with the duty-33682°-36-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

voluntarily contracted by them in accepting the franchise-to submit plans of their works to the commissioner:
for approval. From July, 1926, appellants caused or permitted an excess of water to be held in the lake raising
it to heights above the customary levels in years of average rainfall and thereby flooded thousands of acres and
caused injury to land owners and to the community in
general. The order is reasonable and agreeable to law.
The court gave judgment dismissing the appeal and
affirming the order.
Respondents took the case upon the same record to the
supreme court. It construed the franchise not only to
prohibit grantees from causing the water to be raised
above the indicated levels but also to require them to
prevent its exceeding such levels and to that end imposed upon them the duty to keep the outlet open. It
held that, "inasmuch as appellant has failed to comply
with the conditions of the franchise," the commission's
order was reasonable and in accordance with law and
affirmed the judgment of the district court.
On the appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the evidence was omitted from the record. That court, assuming
that it was sufficient to support a finding that the holders
of the irrigation privilege knowingly permitted obstruction in the outlet to raise the level of the lake, concluded
that the order canceling the privilege was "an arbitrary
and unreasonable act" and reversed the judgment.
1. First to be considered is respondents' insistence that
the commission was not authorized to cancel the irrigation privilege.
That contention has been overruled by both insular
courts and the Circuit Court of Appeals on the authority
of South Porto Rico Sugar Co. v. Munoz, supra. While,
as to the privilege in question, the original grantee or
subsequent holders are not public utilities, the franchise
is one of a quasi- public nature. The holders' right to take

COMMISSION v. HAVEMEYER.
506

Opinion of the Court.

the waters depended upon a grant from the public. Civil
Code of Puerto Rico, §§ 341, 343, 344. They were endowed with power of eminent domain to acquire in invitum lands of others to enable them conveniently to
irrigate their lands and effectively to discharge the duties
imposed upon them by the franchise. The terms of the
grant were a matter of general concern inasmuch as the
use of lands, condition of roads and health of people in
the vicinity were liable to be adversely affected if the
holders of the privilege should permit the waters to overflow contiguous areas.
Implied in every grant of franchise is the condition that
it may be lost by misuse. Every such special privilege is
subject to termination for breach of condition, whether
express or implied, upon which the grant depends. It
may be canceled or withdrawn by any procedure that is
not repugnant to the established principles of justice.
The initial step need not be a suit for mandamus, quo
warranto, injunction or the like. Essential requirements
are satisfied if the withdrawal of the privilege, declared
by legislative or executive authority, may be followed by
appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction in which the
rights of'the holders may be determined. N. Y. Electric
Lines v. Empire City Subway, 235 U. S. 179, 194. Cosmopolitan Club v. Virginia, 208 U. S. 378, 383. New
Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S.336, 346.
Eagle Insurance Co. v. Ohio, 153 U. S.446, 454; Chicago
Life Ins. Co. v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574, 580. Terrett v.
Taylor, 9 Cranch 43, 51.
The assertion by Congress of power to "annul and
modify" franchises granted by the commission and to
annul laws enacted by the insular legislature gives rise to
no implication that the reserved power was intended to be
withheld from insular authorities. Infer~ence to the contrary is a more reasonable one and in harmony with the
reasons which underlie the reservation. Local authorities

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

may ascertain facts and decide questions upon which
depends appropriate exertion of the power much more
conveniently than may the Congress.
Under the Organic Acts and insular laws the power of
the commission to make the order in question is clear.
And that is so whether the cancelation was accomplished
by exertion of the power to amend, alter and repeal
expressly reserved or was effected under the implied rule
that such franchises are terminable for breach of condition. Congress has not directly empowered the commission or any other insular authority to exert thb reserved
power. But it has adequately empowered the insular
legislature and created a public service commission in
which it vested the functions in respect of franchises that
theretofore had been discharged by the executive council.
The insular legislature by enactment, obviously not locally
inapplicable, empowered the commission to alter, amend,
modify- or repeal any franchise granted by the executive
council. § 60, Act No. 70 of 1917. That authorization
unquestionably extends to the cancelation of the irrigation
privilege.
2. Petitioner maintains that the judicial power of the
United States does not extend to the review of reasonableness of the commission's order and that therefore the Circuit Court of Appeals was without jurisdiction of the
appeal. It assumes that the making of the order was
merely the exertion of the power to repeal that is expressly
reserved in the grant. It says that here involved is a
question of the kind of reasonableness of a purely executive decision to exercise a contractual right of the government, and that it is a wholly different kind of question
of reasonableness from that involved in the exercise of a
power to cancel a franchise where may arise a judicial
question whether executive action is cbnfiscatory. And
on that basis the commission insists that the repeal in-

COMMISSION v. HAVEMEYER.
506

Opinion of the Court.

volved nothing but the exercise of executive discretion
and is therefore not subject to review of the courts.
The reserved power to repeal a grant of special privileges implies that it may be exerted at the pleasure of the
legislature or other authority in which the power to repeal
is vested. Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454, 459. Miller
v. State, 15 Wall. 478, 498. Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 98
U. S. 359, 365. Sinking-Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 720.
Greenwood v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13, 17. Calder v.
Michigan, 218 U. S.591, 599. Cf. Grand Trunk Western
Ry. v. South Bend, 227 U. S. 544. That power is plainly
distinguishable from the power to cancel for violation of
the terms of the grant. In the absence of constitutional,
legislative or contractual restriction, the exertion of the
first mentioned power requires nothing more than an appropriate declaration of the repeal. Hamilton Gas Light
Co. v. Hamilton City, 146 U. S.258, 270-271. But, without consent of the holder, valid cancelation for condition
broken cannot be accomplished without giving to the
holder an opportunity to have the asserted default judicially determined. N. Y. Electric Lines v. Empire City
Subway, supra, p. 195. Farnsworth v. Minnesota & Pacific R. Co., 92 U. S.49, 66. Atlantic & Pacific R. Co. v.
3Mingus, 165 U. S. 413, 430-434. New York Indians v.
United States, 170 U. S.1, 24.
We need not consider whether the expressly reserved
power of repeal is trammeled by Act No. 70 or other law
governing the commission or the appeals from its orders,
for there is above disclosed enough of the proceedings and
determinations of the commission and of the lower courts
to show that the order in question was not the exertion
of the expressly reserved power to repeal but was the
assertion of the implied right to cancel for failure of holders to perform their undertakings. On the appeal the
district court was not authorized to substitute for those

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

of the commission its own views as to what action would
be just or ought to be taken, or to perform any legislative,
executive or administrative function. Its only jurisdiction was to decide upon the record certified .to it by the
commission whether the order was (1) reasonable, (2) in
conformity with the law, (3) based upon incompetent evidence. "Reasonable" as here employed means not "capricious," "arbitrary" or "confiscatory." Whether the
order of cancelation was reasonable in the sense that it
did not transgress permissible limits is a question of law.
It is not suggested that the other questions presented on
the appeal were not within the jurisdiction of the court.
The permissible scope of the determinations and judgment of the court is significant. It may only decide the
questions of law raised by the appeal and affirm or reverse
the order or remand the record to the commission for further action. It is without authority to amend or modify
an order of the commission. The jurisdiction and duties
,of the supreme court and Circuit Court of Appeals are
similar in all respects to those of the district court.
Neither has any power or function other than what is
strictly judicial. It is clear that the Circuit Court of
Appeals had jurisdiction of the appeal taken to it. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196, 200.
Radio Comm'n v. Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266. Cf.
Keller v. Potomac Elec. Power Co., 261 U. S. 428, 444.
Porterv. Investors Syndicate, 286 U. S. 461, 468. Radio
Comm'n v. General Electric Co., 281 U. S. 464, 469.
.3. The second question specified in the petition for the
writ is whether the six individuals named as partners,
constituting Russell & Company, 'are parties in interest
entitled to appeal from the order. The question as put
requires clarification by reference to the facts on which it
is based. Havemeyer and the other persons named constitute a limited partnership, Russell & Company. Its
answer to the order to show cause is in this form:

COMMISSION v. HAVEMEYER.
506

Opinion of the Court.

"Now comes Russell & Company, Sucrs., S. en C., a civil
agricultural partnership organized in accordance with the
laws of Puerto Rico, composed of Horace Havemeyer,
Frank A. Dillingham, Frank M. Welty, Edwin L. Arnold
and H. B. Orde, as partners . .
The petition for appeal to the district court begins:
"Now come Horace Havemeyer, Frank A. Dillingham,
Edward S. Paine, Edwin L. Arnold, Frank M. Welty and
Henry B. Orde, members of the civil agricultural partnership of Puerto Rico, Russell & Co., Sucrs., S. en C., and
hereby appeal . . ."

With immaterial variations in the use of words, the designation of appellants last given was followed in the petitions for appeals to the supreme court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. And so in substance were the appealing parties referred to in the opinions, judgments and
generally throughout the litigation. Petitioner's point
comes to this. The partnership, Russell & Company,
composed of the persons named as partners, claiming to
be the owner of the irrigation privilege answered the order
to show cause; but the appeal from the order of cancelation was taken by these persons as partners constituting
the partnership. The commission first raised the point in
the Circuit Court of Appeals. If worthy of, notice, it
should have been made when the appeal was taken to the
district court. The appeal is in the nature of a suit to
have the order adjudged invalid. The petition for appeal
is the complaint. The commission answered on the
merits. Thereby it admitted respondents' capacity to
initiate the proceeding. Baltimore & Potomac R. Co. v.
Fifth Baptist Church,-137 U. S.568, 572. Society for the
Propagationv. Town of Pawlet, 4 Pet. 480, 501. Conard
v. Atlantic Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 386, 450. Havemeyer
and the other partners here maintain that, by the proceedings above described, the partnership itself, a juridical
entity (Puerto Rico v. Russell & Co., 288 U. S.476, 482)

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

in l1gal effect did take all the appeals and was before the
Circuit Court of Appeals. It results that the commissionis suggestion that the partnership will not be bound
by the judgment is without merit. The Circuit Court of
Appeals rightly held that the partnership appealed and
was before it and that the commission's objection came
too late.
4. The facts disclosed by the record support the conclusion of the commission and insular courts that the
holder of the irrigation privilege is responsible for the
overflow and resulting damages to private and public
property. Reasonably construed, the franchise must be
held to have given to the grantees control of the outlet
and 'to have bound them to keep it sufficiently clear, for
the passage of waters from the lake to the bay, to prevent
raising them above the designated levels. The findings
of fact included in the report of the commission and decisions of the insular courts, based as we must assume on
adequate evidence, indicate that Russell & Company allowed the outlet to become and remain filled up and that
the obstruction caused the waters to overflow and keep
submerged the large contiguous area that is above referred to. Having regard to the quasi-public nature ol
the privilege, the extended period of the holder's default,
the character of the resulting damages and the commission's authority to terminate for breach of condition on
which the grant was made, the order of cancelation is
clearly not shown to be capricious, arbitrary or otherwise
contrary to law. Russell & Cempany have failed to establish any ground upon which it may be set aside. Kern
River Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 47, 155. Farns,worth v. Minnesota & Pacific R. Co., supra, 68. Union
Land & Stock Co. v. United Statee. 257 Fed. 635, 637.

Reversed.

