176

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

296 U.S.

Court ought not to create a trusteeship upon an assumption of a State policy which is not recognized by the courts
of the State.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,
and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concur in this opinion.

PACIFIC STATES BOX & BASKET CO. v. WHITE
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 48.

Argued October 25, 1935.-Decided November 18, 1935.

1. A State has power to prescribe the standards for the containers
in which horticultural products are marketed. P. 181.

2. An administrative order pursuant to a statute of Oregon prescribed containers for raspberries and strawberries, of specified
capacity and of a form commonly used in that State, and fixed
the dimensions. Held, against the complaint of a manufacturer
of containers of another type who made them in another State
and sold them in Oregon:
(1) That the regulation could not be considered arbitrary or
capricious in that it prescribed the form and dimensions, since
these bore reasonable relation to protection of buyers and to the
preservation and shipment of the fruit. Pp. 181-182.
(2) Whether it was necessary in Oregon to provide a standard
container for raspberries and strawberries; and, if so, whether
the one adopted should have been made mandatory, involve questions of fact and policy, the determination of which rests in the
legislative branch of the state government-a determination which
may be made, if the constitution of the State permits, by a subordinate administrative body. P. 182.
(3) The regulation is not in conflict with the Standard Baskets
and Containers Acts of May 21, 1928, and August 31, 1916. P. 182.
(4) The regulation did not operate to grant a monopoly to
manufacturers of the type of containers prescribed; and, moreover,
the grant of a monopoly, if otherwise an appropriate exercise of

PACIFIC STATES CO. v. WHITE.

177

Counsel for Parties.

176

the police power, is not void as denying equal protection of the
law. P. 183.
(5) As the regulation does not affect the importation of other
kinds of containers, but only their use after they have come into
the State and been taken from the original packages, it is not an
undue burden on interstate commerce. P. 184.
3. A bill attacking, under the Federal Constitution, a state regulation dealing with a subject clearly within the police power, cannot be sustained on allegations which are merely general conclusions of law or fact; the facts relied on to rebut the presumption
of constitutionality must be specifically set forth; and a motion to
dismiss, like a demurrer, admits only those which are well
pleaded. P. 184.
4. Every exertion of the police power, either by the legislature or by
an administrative body, is an exercise of delegated power; and
where the regulation is within the scope of authority legally delegated, the presumption of the existence of facts justifying its specific exercise attaches alike to statutes, to municipal ordinances,
and to orders of administrative bodies. P. 185.
5. There is added reason for applying this presumption to a regulation adopted after notice and public hearing as required by statute. P. 186.
6. The validity of a general regulation made by an administrative
body under a state statute is not dependent upon the making of
special findings of fact, when not required by the statute. P. 186.
7. On an appeal from the District Court in a suit attacking a state
regulation under the Federal Constitution, and based also on
diversity of citizenship, held that there was no occasion to consider an objection under the constitution of the State which was
not made or discussed below or included in the assignment of
errors. P. 186.
9 F. Supp. 341, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree dismissing the bill in a suit to set
aside an order fixing standard containers for raspberries.
and strawberries. The jurisdiction of the District Court
was based on constitutional grounds and also on diversity
of citizenship.

Mr. Arthur A. Goldsmith, with whom Mr. Byron C.
Hanna was on the brief, for appellant.
33682°-36----12

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

Mr. Willis S. Moore, Assistant Attorney General of
Oregon, with whom Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellees:
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought in the federal court for Oregon,
in May, 1934, to enjoin enforcement of an order of the
Department of Agriculture of that State, dated May 3,
1933, entitled "Standard Containers for Fruits and Vegetables." '1 The plaintiff, Pacific States Box & Basket
Company, is a California corporation which manufactures there fruit and vegetable containers. The defendants are the Director of Agriculture and the Chief of the
Division of Plant Industry, of Oregon. The jurisdiction
of the District Court was invoked both on the ground of
diversity of citizenship and on the ground that the order,
and the statutes purporting to authorize it, violate rights
of the plaintiff guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
The case was heard upon plaintiff's motion for a preliminary injunction and defendants' motion to dismiss the
bill on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
entitle the plaintiff to relief. The court denied the injunction and dismissed the bill. 9 F. Supp. 341.
Oregon Code of 1930, §§ 18-2902 and 18-2903, as
amended by Oregon Laws 1931, c. 136, and 1933, c. 225,
authorize the Chief of the Division of Plant Industry, after
investigation and public hearing and subject to the approval of the Director of Agriculture, to fix and promulgate
"official standards for containers of horticultural products" "in order to promote, protect, further and develop
the horticultural interests" of the State. After a standard
same provision concerning containers for strawberries is incorporated also in an order dated June 1, 1933; and the prayer for
an injunction extends likewise to that order.
1 The

PACIFIC STATES CO. v. WHITE.
176

Opinion of the Court.

has been prescribed, these statutes make it unlawful for
anyone to pack for sale or transport for sale, or sell, the
article in a container unless it conforms to the standard.
They make any violation of the order a misdemeanor, and
charge the Director with the duty of enforcement.
The order challenged, so far as it prescribes containers
for raspberries and strawberries, is:
"As provided for in sections 18-2902 and 18-2903,
Oregon Code 1930, and chapter 136, Oregon Laws, 1931,
a public hearing was held in Portland, Oregon, on the
date of April 15, 1933, to consider standard containers
for fruits and vegetables. Containers for the following
fruits and vegetables were considered and recommended:
Raspberries.
Crate-24-pint hallocks, . . . Size of hallock, 2 x 51/4
x 51/4 inches outside measurements, bottom set up 3/
inch, inside depth 11/4 inches.
Strawberries.
Crate-24-pint hallocks, . . . Size of hallocks, 21/2 x
43% x 4% inches outside measurements, bottom set up
3/4 inch, inside depth 13/4 inches.
...
the above-mentioned containers are hereby declared to be standard for the designated fruits and vegetables and this order shall become effective on June 15,
1933. Provided, however, that persons now having on
hand new containers or shooks for same not of standard
sizes as hereby approved will be allowed an extension of
time until January 1, 1934, in order to make use of such
material."
A hallock is a type of rectangular till box with perpendicular sides and a raised bottom. It is usually made of
rotary cut veneer, taken directly from spruce logs: but is
sometimes made of paper or other material.
The plaintiff manufactures a type of container other
than hallocks. Its type, which is also used for rasp-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U S.

berries and strawberries, is known as tin-top or metal
rim. It differs from the hallock both in shape and construction. In shape, it is more like a cup; its sides slope
outward; and it has not the raised bottom. This cup
is made from two thin strips of wood crossing each other
to form the bottom of the container and then bent upward
to form the sides, reinforced with a narrow metal strip
to insure protection of the cup and its contents, as well
as to insure uniformity of cubic measure. The plaintiff
has for years sold a part of its product of tin-top cups to
dealers in Oregon, for ultimate use as containers for raspberries and strawberries to be packed there.
The bill alleges "that the effect" of the order is to prevent the sale by plaintiff for use in Oregon of " the metal
top variety of containers or cups with the solid bottom ";
"because dealers who formerly purchased such baskets
from Plaintiff have been warned by officials . . . that
they would not be allowed to sell strawberries or raspberries in any container" other than that prescribed; that
it has no facilities for manufacturing hallocks; and that,
because of the expense of installing the requisite machinery and the cost of transporting the appropriate supplies to its plant, it is impracticable for it to arrange to
make hallocks.
The claim is that, since the order prescribed hallocks as
the only permissible type of container, its necessary effect
is to exclude containers of the plaintiff's manufacture from
use in Oregon, and, therefore, the order violates its rights:
(a) Under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, because the order is arbitrary, capricious,
and not reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of
any legitimate purpose of the police power; (b) Under
the equal protection clause of the Amendment, because
the order grants a monopoly to manufacturers of hallocks;
(c) Under the commerce clause, because the order imposes
undue burdens on interstate commerce. The defend-

PACIFIC STATES CO. v. WHITE.
176

Opinion of the Court.

ants insist that the order is an appropriate exercise of the
police power of the State; does not create a monopoly;
and does not burden interstate commerce. We think the
defendants are right.
First. The power of a State to prescribe standard containers in order to facilitate trading, to preserve the condition of the merchandise, to protect buyers from deception,
or to prevent unfair competition is conceded. Such regulation of trade is a part of the inspection laws; was among
the earliest exertions of the police power in America; has
been persistent; and has been widely applied to merchandise commonly sold in containers. See Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38, 51-54. Latterly, with the broadening
of the field of distribution and the growing use of containers in the retail trade, the scope of the regulation has
been much extended.
Plaintiff does not question the reasonableness of the
standard so far as it prescribes the capacity of the box or
basket. Its challenge is directed solely to the fixing of the
dimensions and the form of the container. But to fix both
the dimensions and the form may be deemed necessary in
order to assure observance of the prescribed capacity and
to effect other purposes of the regulation. It may be that
in Oregon, where hallocks have long been in general use,"
buyers at retail are less likely to be deceived by dealers as
to the condition and quantity of these berries if they are
sold in containers of the prescribed form and dimensions.
It is said that there are 34 other styles or shapes of berry
basket in use somewhere in the United States. Obviously,
a multitude of shapes and sizes of packages tends to confuse the buyer. Furthermore, the character of the container may be an important factor in preserving the condition of raspberries and strawberries, which are not only
ISee " Containers used in Shipping Fruits and Vegetables," U. S.
Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 1579 (1934)
pp. 7-9.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

perishable but tender. A shallow container, like the hallock prescribed, may conceivably better preserve these
fruits than the deeper cup which the plaintiff manufactures. A container with perpendicular sides, like the hallock, may conceivably preserve them better than a metalrim cup with outward sloping sides. And, since the containers are to be packed and shipped in crates of 24, the
berries may conceivably be better stowed where the fruit
basket has the bottom set-up peculiar to the hallock, than
if it had the flat bottom of the plaintiff's metal-rim cup.
Considerations of this nature led the Colonies, the individual States, and Congress to prescribe for many articles
2
not only the capacity, but the size and form of containers.
Different types of commodities require different types
of containers; and as to each commodity there may be
reasonable difference of opinion as to the type best adapted
to the protection of the public. Whether it was necessary
in Oregon to provide a standard container for raspberries
and strawberries; and, if so, whether that adopted should
have been made mandatory, involve questions of fact and
of policy, the determination of which rests in the legislative branch of the state government. The determination
may be made, if the constitution of the State permits, by
a subordinate administrative body. With the wisdom of
such a regulation we have, of course, no concern. We may
enquire only whether it is arbitrary or capricious. That
the requirement is not arbitrary, or capricious seems clear.
That the type of container prescribed by Oregon is an
appropriate means for attaining permissible ends cannot
be doubted.
Second. The standard prescribed by the order does not
conflict with any established by Congress. The Standard
Baskets and Containers Act of May 21, 1928, c. 664, 45
Stat. 685, has no relation to the matter here under con2

See Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38, notes pp. 51-54.

PACIFIC STATES CO. v. WHITE.
176

Opinion of the Court.

sideration. That statute deals solely with hampers,
round stave, and splint baskets of capacity not less than
one-eighth bushel. The Standard Baskets and Containers Act of August 31, 1916, c. 426, 39 Stat. 673, which in
§ 2 deals with containers for small fruits and vegetables,
prescribes merely the capacity of the containers. It fixes
the cubic contents for dry half-pint, pint, and quart. It
makes no reference to the dimensions or form of the container; and has left to the individual States the adoption
of the standards in these respects if deemed necessary.
Compare Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365, 368; Mintz v. Baldwin,
289 U. S. 346, 350, 351.
Third. The charge that the order is void because it
grants a monopoly to manufacturers of hallocks is unfounded. The plaintiff, and all others, are free to engage
in the business, which, so far as appears, is not protected
by patent or trademark and does not rest upon trade
secrets. The business is not closely controlled; nor is it
peculiar to Oregon. In 1933, at least 25 concerns were
engaged in the United States in manufacturing hallocks.
Less than one-fourth of them were located in Oregon and
Washington. Plaintiff asserts that the order excludes
it from the Oregon trade since its plant cannot be
equipped to manufacture hallocks except at a prohibitive
cost; and that the spruce logs, the veneer of which is
customarily used in making hallocks, are not obtainable
except in the Pacific Northwest. Obviously these allegations afford no support to the charge of monopoly;
among other reasons, because the order does not prescribe
the material from which hallocks may be made. They are
3 See "Production and Carry-over of Fruit and Vegetable Containers
for the Year 1933," U. S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, pp. 3, 7, 16, 19, 22; ibid. for 1934, pp. 2, G.
Compare U. S. Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No
1579, pp. 7-9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

in fact made, to some extent, from material other than
spruce veneer. Moreover, the grant of a monopoly, if
otherwise an appropriate exercise of the police power,
is not void as denying equal protection of the law. Compare Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Nebbia v. New
York, 291 U. S. 502, 529.
Fourth. The order does not unduly burden interstate
commerce. It is aimed, not at the importation or sale of
other types of containers, but at their use in Oregon by
packers of raspberries and strawberries, and the later
transportation and sale of the packages. The prohibition
of other types involved in prescribing the standard is nondiscriminatory.. It applies regardless of the origin of the
containers. The plaintiff is a manufacturer of containers,
not a packer or shipper of berries. It is not prohibited from
shipping its tin-top containers into Oregon; nor from selling them there. The operation of the order is intrastate,
beginning after the interstate movement of the containers
has ceased, and after the original package has been broken.
To sustain this contention of the plaintiff would be to hold
that its containers, because of their origin, are entitled to
immunity from the exercise of the state regulatory power.
Compare Packer Corporation v. Utah, 285 U. S. 105,
111-112.
Fifth. Plaintiff contends that since the case was heard
on motion to dismiss the bill, all allegations therein made
must be accepted as true; and, among others, the charge
that "there is no necessity for the particular orders relating to strawberries or raspberries " "based on considerations of public health, or to prevent fraud or deception,
or any other legitimate use of the police power, and the
particular container described . . .does not of necessity

promote, protect, further or develop the horticultural interests of the State "; and that its necessary effect is "to
grant a monopoly to manufacturers of the so-called hal-

PACIFIC STATES CO. v. WHITE.
176

Opinion of the Court.

locks." The order here in question deals with a subject
clearly within the scope of the police power. See Turner
v. Maryland, 107 U. S.38. When such legislative action
" is called in question, if any state of facts reasonably can
be conceived that would sustain it, there is a presumption
of the existence of that state of facts, and one who assails
the classification must carry the burden of showing by a
resort to common knowledge or other matters which may
be judicially noticed, or to other legitimate proof, that the
action is arbitrary." Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 209. The burden is not sustained by
making allegations which are merely the general conclusions of law or fact. See Public Service Comm'n v. Great
Northern Utilities Co., 289 U. S. 130, 136, 137. Facts
relied upon to rebut the presumption of constitutionality
must be specifically set forth. See Aetna Insurance Co. v.
Hyde, 275 U. S. 440; O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford
Fire Insurance Co., 282 U. S.251; Hegeman Farms Corp.
v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 163. A motion to dismiss, like a
demurrer, admits only facts well pleaded. Compare St.
Louis, Kennett & Southeastern R. Co. v. United States,
267 U. S.346, 349.
Sixth. It is urged that this rebuttable presumption of
the existence of a state of facts sufficient to justify the
exertion of the police power attaches only to acts of
legislature; and that where the regulation is the act of
an administrative body, no such presumption exists, so
that the burden of proving the justifying facts is upon
him who seeks to sustain the validity of the regulation.
The contention is without support in authority or reason,
and rests upon misconception. Every exertion of the
police power, either by the legislature or by an administrative body, is an exercise of delegated power. Where
it is by a statute, the legislature has acted under power
delegated to it through the Constitution. Where the

OCTOBER TERM. 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S.

regulation is by an order of an administrative body, that
body acts under a delegation from the legislature. The
question of law may, of course, always be raised ,whether
the legislature had power to delegate the authority exercised. Compare PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S.
388 and A. L. A. Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S. 495. But where the regulation is within the
scope of authority legally delegated, the presumption of
the existence of facts justifying its specific exercise attaches alike to statutes, to municipal ordinances, and to
orders of administrative bodies. Compare Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440, 447. Here there is added
reason for applying the presumption of validity; for the
regulation now challenged was adopted after notice and
public hearing as the statute required. It is contended
that the order is void because the administrative body
made no special findings of fact. But the statute did not
require special findings; doubtless because the regulation
authorized was general legislation, not an administrative
order in the nature of a judgment directed against an
individual concern. Compare Wichita Railroad & Light
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 260 U. S. 48, 58-59;
Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 44; Southern Ry. Co. v.
Virginia, 290 U. S. 190, 193, 194.
Seventh. It is argued that under the constitution of
Oregon, its legislature was without power to delegate the
authority to prescribe standard containers, citing Van
Winkle v. Fred Meyer, Inc., 151 Ore. 455; 49 P. (2d) 1140.
This objection (which involves solely a question of state
law) was not made below, was not discussed by the lower
court, and is not included in the assignment of errors filed
in this Court. We have no occasion to consider it. See
Rule 27 (4); Blair v. Oesterlein Co., 275 U. S. 220, 225;
Bradley v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 289 U. S. 92, 96-7.
Affirmed.

