G. & K. MFG. CO. v. HELVERING.
387

Syllabus.

The transaction here involved is within the description
of reorganization recognized by the Treasury Regulation
above quoted. And if the regulation can be taken as
properly interpreting the statute, the challenged judgment must be affirmed.
The court below recites the history of the Treasury
Regulation above quoted and concludes that, in view of
the reenactment of the paragraph to which it refers without change, Congress intended to approve the regulation
as written.
The Commissioner here maintains that the definition
of reorganization found in ยง 203 (h) (1) (A), Revenue
Act, 1924, should be limited to transactions which partake of the nature of mergers or consolidations and that
here the Vanadium merely made an investment in Ferro
Alloys stock and obtained only the rights of a stockholder
therein. It is also urged that an exchange of stocks for
bonds results in a substantial change of position and that
such bonds are " other property" within the meaning of
the statute and as such subject to tax. Much of the
argument presented is the same as the one considered in
the Minnesota Tea Company case, and it need not be
again followed in detail. The bonds, we think, were securities within the definition and cannot be regarded as
cash, as were the short term notes refeired to in Pinellas
Ice Co. v. Commissioner, 287 U. S. 462.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.
G. & K. MANUFACTURING CO. v. HELVERING,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 187.

FOR THE

Argued November 20, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.

1. A transfer by one corporation to another of substantially all of
its assets for cash and common stock of the transferee corporation

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

296 U.S

amounts to a reorganization under ยง 112 (i) (1) (A) of the Revenue
Act of 1928; even though the transferor corporation and its subsidiaries continued in business. P. 391.
2. The Board of Tax Appeals having omitted to make a finding as to
whether the transfer was of substantially all of the assets of the
transferor corporation, the cause is remanded for determination by
the Board of this essential fact. P. 391.
76 F. (2d) 454, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment affirming a decision
of the Board of Tax Appeals, which sustained a determination of a deficiency in income tax. Compare with
the three cases preceding.
Mr. Llewellyn A. Luce for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs.
James W: Morris and Sewall Key were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner contests the validity of a deficiency assessment for 1929 income taxes. It maintains that the
transaction out of which the alleged gains arose amounted
to a reorganization within the intendment of ยง 1i2 (i) (1)
(A), Revenue Act, 1028.t
The court below was of opinion that the transaction involved amounted to a sale of the assets and business of
the taxpayer. In November, 1929, petitioner transferred
what the Board of Tax Appeals seems to have assumed
vwas substantially all of its assets to the Kraft-Phenix
Cheese Corporation and received therefor $200,000 in cash
and 17,250 shares common stock of the purchaser, then
worth possibly thirty dollars per share. After the trans*

See Table of Cases Reported in 'this volume.

t Margin of opinion in Helvering v. Minnesota Tea Co., ante, p. 378.

BUS & TRANS. CORP. v. HELVERING.
389

391

Syllabus.

fer, the taxpayer remained in existence and continued to
do business. It also retained assets of undisclosed value,
namely, shares of certain subsidiary corporations and some
other property. If the claim of the taxpayer that the
transfer included substantially all its property is correct,
then we think what was done amounted to a reorganization within the statute. The facts in respect of this were
not found by the Board of Tax Appeals, and the cause
must be returned there in order that the omission may be
supplied. The mere fact that the taxpayer and its subsidiaries continued actively in business would not defeat
the claim of reorganization. The ownership of the stock
in the Kraft-Phenix Cheese Corporation gave the taxpayer
a substantial and continuing interest in the affairs of that
corporation.
The judgment of the court below is reversed. The
cause will be remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals
with direction to that Court to remand the case to the
Board of Tax Appeals for determination of the value of
the retained assets and such further proceedings as may be
necessary.
Reversed.
BUS & TRANSPORT SECURITIES CORP. v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 490. Argued November 20, 1935.-Decided December 16, 1935.
A corporation transferred shares of stock which it owned to another
corporation in exchange for shares of stock which the latter owned,
neither party to the exchange acquiring any definite immediate
itterest in the other. Held, not a reorganization within ยง 112 of
the Revenue Act of 1928. P. 393.
79 F. (2d) 509, affirmed.

