BROWN v. LOUISIANA
Syllabus

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
CERTIORARI

No. 79-5364.

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA

Argued March 25, 1980-Decided June 16, 1980

While petitioner's appeal from his felony conviction-based on a nonunanimous six-person jury verdict-was pending in the Louisiana Supreme Court, Burch v. Louisiana, 441 U. S. 130, was decided, holding
unconstitutional those provisions of the Louisiana Constitution and
Code of Criminal Procedure that sanctioned conviction of a nonpetty
offense by a nonunanimous jury of six. The Louisiana Supreme Court
thereafter affirmed petitioner's conviction, holding that the rule of
Burch v. Louisiana, supra, should not be applied retroactively to cases
tried by juries empaneled prior to the date of that decision.
Held: The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded. Pp. 327337; 337.
371 So. 2d 746, reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN, joined by MR. JUSTICE STEWART, MR. JUSTICE
MARSHALL, and MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, concluded that the constitutional principle announced in Burch v. Louisiana, supra, that conviction
of a nonpetty criminal offense in a state court by a nonunanimous sixperson jury violates the accused's right to trial by jury guaranteed by
the Sixth Amendment as applied to the States through the Fourteenth
Amendment, should be given retroactive application. Pp. 327-337.
(a) The test for deciding whether a new constitutional doctrine
should be applied retroactively contemplates the consideration of (i) the
purpose to be served by the new doctrine; (ii) the extent of the reliance
by law enforcement authorities on the old standards; and (iii) the
impact on the administration of justice of a retroactive application of
the new standards. Foremost among these factors is the first, and
controlling significance will be given to factors (ii) and (iii) only when
factor (i) does not clearly favor retroactivity or prospectivity. Pp.
327-329.
(b) Burch established that the concurrence of six jurors was constitutionally required to preserve the substance of the jury trial right and
assure the reliability of the jury's verdict. The Burch rule's purpose to
eliminate a practice that threatened the jury's ability properly to perform its function of determining the truth in serious criminal cases
clearly requires retroactive application. Pp. 330-334.
(c) Due regard for the State's good-faith reliance on the old standards
and the impact of retroactivity on the administration of justice does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinion of

447 U. S.

BRENNAN, J.

counsel a contrary result. Here, the element of justifiable reliance on
pre-Burch standards is minimal, since unlike other cases that have been
accorded prospective effect only, Burch did not overrule any prior decisions of this Court or invalidate a practice of heretofore unquestioned
legitimacy. Similarly, retroactive application of the Burch rule here
will not have a devastating impact on the administration of criminal
law, since it appears that by 1979 only two States permitted conviction
of nonpetty offenses by a nonunanimous six-member jury, and that one
of them-Louisiana-did not institute its scheme until 1975. Moreover,
the decision in this case will not affect the validity of all convictions
obtained under Louisiana's unconstitutional jury practice during that
4-year period but only those in which it can be shown that the verdict
was less than unanimous. Pp. 335-337.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, joined by MR. JUSTICE STEVENS, being of the
view that new constitutional rules should apply retroactively in cases
still pending on direct review, such as the instant case, concurred in the
judgment. P. 337.
BRENNAN,

J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an

opinion, in which

STEWART,

MARSHALL,

and

BLACKMUN,

JJ., joined.

POWELL, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which STEVENS,
J., joined, post, p. 337. REHNQUIST, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in

which

BURGER,

C. J., and

WHITE,

J., joined, post, p. 337.

John Lawrence argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Thomas Chester argued the cause pro hac vice for respondent. With him on the brief were William J. Guste, Jr.,
Attorney General of Louisiana, Harry F. Connick, and Louise
Korns.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN announced the judgment of the

Court and delivered an opinion, in which MR.

JUSTICE STEW-

ART, MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, and MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN

joined.
Burch v. Louisiana, 441 U. S. 130 (1979), held that conviction of a nonpetty criminal offense by a nonunanimous six-

person jury violates the accused's right to trial by jury guaranteed by the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments. The issue

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

Opinion of

BPNNAN,

J.

in this case is whether the constitutional principle announced
in Burch is to be given retroactive application.

I
On July 31, 1978, petitioner Darnell Brown was charged by
bill of information in Orleans Parish with simple burglary, a
felony punishable by confinement in the parish prison or state
penitentiary for a maximum term of 12 years. La. Rev. Stat.
Ann. § 14:62 (West Supp. 1979). At the time, the Louisiana
Constitution and Code of Criminal Procedure provided that
such crimes should be tried by a jury of six persons, five of
whom must concur to render a verdict.' Before trial, petitioner filed a motion to quash pursuant to Art. 532 (9) of the
Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure, arguing that his "due
'Article 1, § 17, of the Louisiana Constitution of 1974 provides:
"A criminal case in which the punishment may be capital shall be tried
before a jury of twelve persons, all of whom must concur to render a verdict. A case in which the punishment is necessarily confinement at hard
labor shall be tried before a jury of twelve persons, ten of whom must
concur to render a verdict. A case in which the punishment may be
confinement at hard labor or confinement without hard labor for more
than six months shall be tried before a jury of six persons, five of whom

must concur to render a verdict. The accused shall have the right to full
voir dire examination of prospective jurors and to challenge jurors peremptorily. The number of challenges shall be fixed by law. Except in capital
cases, a defendant may knowingly and intelligently waive his right to a
trial by jury." (Emphasis added.)
At the time of petitioner's trial, Art. 782 (A), La. Code Crim. Proc.
Ann. (West Supp. 1978), provided:
"Cases in which punishment may be capital shall be tried by a jury
of twelve jurors, all of whom must concur to render a verdict. Cases
in which punishment is necessarily confinement at hard labor shall be
tried by a jury composed of twelve jurors, ten of whom must concur to
render a verdict. Cases in which the punishment may be confinement
at hard labor shall be tried by a jury composed of six jurors, five of whom
must concur to render a verdict." (Emphasis added.)
Following our decision in Burch v. Louisiana, 441 U. S. 130 (1979),
this statutory provision was amended to require a unanimous verdict of
six-person juries. 1979 La. Acts, No. 56, § 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

447 U. S.

process rights under the Sixth and the Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution as enunciated in
Ballew v. Georgia, [435 U. S. 223 (1978),] will be violated by
a less than unanimous vote by a six person jury." App. 5.
Petitioner therefore requested the trial judge to order a jury
of 12 or, in the alternative, to require a unanimous verdict
of the jury of 6.
Petitioner's motion was denied, and on August 23 his trial
commenced before a six-member jury. That same afternoon,
after deliberating for approximately one hour, the jury returned a verdict of guilty. At petitioner's request, the court
polled the jurors and ascertained that their vote was 5 to 1 to
convict. Sentencing was set for August 30, at which time
petitioner renewed his objection to the nonunanimous sixperson verdict by a motion for new trial. The trial judge
again denied the motion and sentenced petitioner to a term of
22 years' imprisonment at hard labor.2
Petitioner appealed his conviction to the Louisiana Supreme Court, assigning as principal error the trial judge's
refusal to grant the motion to quash. On April 17, 1979, while
petitioner's case was still pending on direct review in the
Louisiana courts, Burch v. Louisiana, supra, was decided,
holding unconstitutional those provisions of the Louisiana
Constitution and Code of Criminal Procedure that sanctioned
conviction of a nonpetty offense by a nonunanimous jury of
six. Some five weeks later, on May 21, 1979, the Louisiana
Supreme Court affirmed petitioner's conviction. Although it
implicitly acknowledged that Burch requires unanimous verdicts by six-person juries in all future prosecutions of simple
burglary,' the court nonetheless concluded, without elabora2 Because

petitioner had two prior convictions, he was charged and

sentenced as a habitual offender under La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 15:529.1
(West Supp. 1979).
3 Cf. State v. Jackson, 370 So. 2d 570, decided April 19, 1979, in which
the Louisiana Supreme Court held that Burch applies to all trials commenced after that date.

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

tion, that "the rule of Burch, supra, should not be applied
retroactively to juries empaneled prior to the date of the
Burch decision." 371 So. 2d 746, 748 (1979) (emphasis in
original). We granted certiorari. 444 U. S. 990 (1979).
We reverse.
II
Linkletter v. Walker, 381 U. S. 618 (1965), was the first
instance in which the Court declined to apply a new doctrine
respecting one of the provisions of the Bill of Rights retroactively for the benefit of a previously convicted defendant.
In the intervening 15 years, we have often considered the
question of the retroactivity of decisions expounding new
constitutional rules of criminal procedure, and have endeavored to elaborate appropriate standards for determining which
rules are to be accorded retrospective and which only prospective effect. From the welter of case law that has developed in this area, several unequivocal principles emerge to
guide our analysis in the present case.
It is by now uncontroverted that "the Constitution neither
prohibits nor requires retrospective effect." Id., at 629. Thus,
although before Linkletter new constitutional rules had been
applied to cases that had become final before promulgation of
the rule, see id., at 628, and n. 13, that decision firmly settled
that "in appropriate cases the Court may in the interest of
justice make the rule prospective . . . where the exigencies of
the situation require such an application." Id., at 628;
Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U. S. 719, 726-727 (1966).
Similarly, it is clear that resolution of the question of retroactivity does not automatically turn on the particular provision of the Constitution on which the new prescription is
based. "Each constitutional rule of criminal procedure has
its own distinct functions, its own background of precedent,
and its own impact on the administration of justice, and the
way in which these factors combine must inevitably vary with
the dictate involved." Id., at 728. Accordingly, the test con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

447 U. S.

sistently employed by the Court to decide whether a new
constitutional doctrine should be applied retroactively contemplates the consideration of three criteria: "(a) the purpose to be served by the new standards, (b) the extent of
the reliance by law enforcement authorities on the old standards, and (c) the effect on the administration of justice of a
retroactive application of the new standards." Stovall v.
Denno, 388 U. S. 293, 297 (1967).
Moreover, our decisions establish that "[f]oremost among
these factors is the purpose to be served by the new constitutional rule," Desist v. United States, 394 U. S. 244, 249 (1969),
and that we will give controlling significance to the measure
of reliance and the impact on the administration of justice
"only when the purpose of the rule in question [does] not
clearly favor either retroactivity or prospectivity." Id., at
251; Michigan v. Payne, 412 U. S. 47, 55 (1973); see also
Hankerson v. North Carolina,432 U. S. 233, 242-244 (1977);
Adams v. Illinois, 405 U. S. 278, 280 (1972) (plurality opinion
of BRENNAN, J.). "Where the major purpose of new constitutional doctrine is to overcome an aspect of the criminal trial
that substantially impairs its truth-finding function and so
raises serious questions about the accuracy of guilty verdicts
in past trials, the new rule has been given complete retroactive
effect. Neither good-faith reliance by state or federal authorities on prior constitutional law or accepted practice, nor severe
impact on the administration of justice has sufficed to require
prospective application in these circumstances." Williams v.
United States, 401 U. S. 646, 653 (1971) (plurality opinion
of WHITE, J.). Accord, Hankerson v. North Carolina,supra,
at 243; Gosa v. Mayden, 413 U. S. 665, 679 (1973) (plurality
opinion of BLACKMUN, J.); Ivan V. v. City of New York, 407
U. S. 203, 204 (1972).
Finally, we have recognized that the extent to which the
purpose of a new constitutional rule requires its retroactive
application "is necessarily a matter of degree." Johnson v.
New Jersey, supra, at 729. Constitutional protections are

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

frequently fashioned to serve multiple ends; while a new
standard may marginally implicate the reliability and integrity
of the factfinding process, it may have been designed primarily to foster other, equally fundamental values in our system
of jurisprudence. 4 Not every rule that "tends incidentally"
to avoid unfairness at trial must be accorded retroactive effect. Gosa v. Mayden, supra, at 680 (plurality opinion of
BLACKMUN, J.). So, too, additional safeguards may already
exist that minimize the likelihood of past injustices.' In short,
"[t]he extent to which a condemned practice infects the
integrity of the truth-determining process at trial is a 'question of probabilities.' " Stovall v. Denno, supra, at 298 (quoting Johnson v. New Jersey, supra, at 729). And only when
an assessment of those probabilities indicates that the condemned practice casts doubt upon the reliability of the determinations of guilt in past criminal cases must the new procedural rule be applied retroactively.'
4 See, e. g., Tehan v. United States ex rel. Shott, 382 U. S. 406, 415
(1966); Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U. S.719, 729-730 (1966); Gosa v.
Mayden, 413 U. S. 665, 681-682 (1973) (plurality opinion of BLACKMUN, J.).
5See, e. g., Johnson v. New Jersey, supra, at 730; Stovall v. Denno, 388
U. S. 293, 299 (1967); Michigan v. Payne, 412 U. S. 47, 54 (1973).
6 The distinguishing characteristic of those new constitutional doctrines
that are to be given retroactive effect has been described in myriad formulations. See, e. g., Johnson v. New Jersey, supra, at 727-728 ("the rule
affected 'the very integrity of the fact-finding process' and averted 'the
clear danger of convicting the innocent'"); Stovall v. Denno, supra, at
298 ("rules of criminal procedure fashioned to correct serious flaws in the
fact-finding process at trial"); Roberts v. Russell, 392 U. S. 293, 295
(1968) ("the constitutional error presents a serious risk that the issue of
guilt or innocence may not have been reliably determined"); Williams v.
United States, 401 U. S.646, 653 (1971) (opinion of WHITE, J.) ("the
purpose of the new constitutional standard [is] to minimize or avoid
arbitrary or unreliable results"); id., at 655, n. 7 ("the use of such a 'condemned practice' in past criminal trials presents substantial likelihood that
the results of a number of those trials were factually incorrect"); United
States v. U. S. Coin & Currency, 401 U. S. 715, 723 (1971) ("a procedural rule which . . .undermine[s] the basic accuracy of the factfinding

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

447 U. S.

III
With these principles in mind, then, we turn to consideration of the issue presented by this case: whether the rule of
Burch v. Louisiana must be given retroactive effect. We conclude that it must.
A
The right to jury trial guaranteed by the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments "is a fundamental right, essential for
preventing miscarriages of justice and for assuring that fair
trials are provided for all defendants." Duncan v. Louisiana,
391 U. S. 145, 158 (1968). Trial by jury in serious criminal
cases has long been regarded as an indispensable protection
against the possibility of governmental oppression; the history
of the jury's development demonstrates "a long tradition
attaching great importance to the concept of relying on a
body of one's peers to determine guilt or innocence as a safeguard against arbitrary law enforcement." Williams v. Florida,
399 U. S. 78, 87 (1970). "Given this purpose, the essential
feature of a jury obviously lies in the interposition between
the accused and his accuser of the commonsense judgment of a
group of laymen, and in the community participation and
shared responsibility that results from that group's determination of guilt or innocence." Id., at 100.
Although we have held that the constitutional guarantee
of trial by jury prescribes neither the precise number that
can constitute a jury, Williams v. Florida, supra (six-person
jury does not violate Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments), nor
process at trial"); id., at 724 ("the failure to employ such rules at
trial meant there was a significant chance that innocent men had been
wrongfully punished in the past"); Michigan v. Payne, supra, at 61-62
(MARSHALL, J., dissenting) ("a rule that was central to the process of
determining guilt or innocence, and whose application might well have
led to the acquittal of the defendant"). While the precise verbalisms may
vary, all encompass the notion that any rule which raises substantial
doubts about the reliability of the jury's verdict should be applied
retroactively.

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

the exact proportion of the jury that must concur in the verdict, Apodaca v. Oregon, 406 U. S. 404 (1972) (10-to-2 vote in
state trial does not violate the Constitution), we have also
declared that there do exist size and unanimity limits that cannot be transgressed if the essence of the jury trial right is to be
maintained. Thus Ballew v. Georgia, 435 U. S. 223 (1978),
held that a reduction in the size of a jury to below six persons
in nonpetty criminal cases raises such substantial doubts as to
the fairness of the proceeding and the jury's ability to represent
the true sense of the community that it deprives the accused of
his right to trial by jury. For "much the same reasons," we concluded in Burch that "conviction for a nonpetty offense by
only five members of a six-person jury presents a similar threat
to preservation of the substance of the jury trial guarantee" and
hence violates the Sixth Amendment as applied to the States
through the Fourteenth. 441 U. S., at 138. Though the line
separating the permissible jury practice from the impermissible may not be the brightest, cf. Burch v. Louisiana, supra, at
137; Ballew v. Georgia, 435 U. S., at 231-232 (opinion of
BLACKMUN, J.); id., at 245-246 (opinion of POWELL, J.), a
line must be drawn somewhere, and the constitutional inviolability of that border must be scrupulously respected lest the
purpose and functioning of the jury be seriously impaired.
We think it apparent that the rationale behind the constitutional rule announced in Burch mandates its retroactive
application. MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN'S opinion in Ballew 7
7 MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN announced the judgment of the Court and
delivered an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE STEVENS joined. 435 U. S., at
294.

MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN,

MR. JUSTICE STEWART,

and

MR. JUSTICE

MARSHALL joined MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN'S opinion insofar as it held
that the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments require juries in criminal
trials to contain more than five persons, but were of the view that the
statute upon which the criminal prosecution was predicated was overbroad
and therefore facially unconstitutional. Id., at 246. MR. JUSTICE WHITE
filed a statement concurring in the judgment, id., at 245, and MR. JUSTICE
POWELL, joined by THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, filed

a separate opinion concurring in the judgment. Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

447 U. S.

cataloged the several considerations that led the Court to
conclude that the operation of the jury was inhibited to a

constitutionally significant degree by reducing its size to five
members. Prominent among these concerns was the recognition, supported by a number of empirical studies,' that a
decline in jury size leads to less accurate factfinding and a

greater risk of convicting an innocent person. Id., at 232235.' In addition, statistical and empirical data established
that because of a concomitant decrease in the number of

hung juries, a reduction in the size of the jury panel in crim-

inal cases unfairly disadvantages one side-the defense.
at 236.1"

Id.,

Lastly, the opinion noted that the opportunity

for meaningful and appropriate minority representation diminishes with the size of the jury. Id., at 236-237.11
8 Almost

all of the empirical research cited in MR.

JUSTICE BLACKMUN'S

opinion, see 435 U. S., at 231-232, n. 10, had been prompted by Williams
v. Florida, 399 U. S. 78 (1970). In comparing 12- and 6-member juries,
the Court there observed: "What few experiments have occurred-usually
in the civil area-indicate that there is no discernible difference between
the results reached by the two different-sized juries." Id., at 101.
9The data also showed that jury verdicts become less consistent as
panel size decreases, a result that not only reduces the likelihood that a
given jury will reach a "correct" result-that is, one that truly represents
the consensus of the community-but also produces a greater proportion
of aberrant compromise verdicts. See 435 U. S., at 234-235.
10 There are three reasons why this is so. First, because as a practical
matter the State will decline to reprosecute a given proportion of cases
that have produced hung juries in a prior trial, a hung jury may effectively
serve as an acquittal. Second, the effects of time on witnesses' memories
and the benefits of exposure to the State's case will generally aid the
defendant in any retrial. Lastly, because studies show that jurors are more
prone to convict than acquit, see id., at 235, and n. 19, a reduction
in the number of hung juries will lead to a comparatively greater increase
in the number of convictions than acquittals, thus operating to the defendant's disadvantage.
11On the basis of these considerations, MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN'S opinion
concluded:
"[T]he assembled data raise substantial doubt about the reliability and
appropriate representation of panels smaller than six. Because of the fun-

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

Identical considerations underlay our decision in Burch.
The threat which conviction by a 5-to-O verdict poses to the
fairness of the proceeding and the proper role of the jury is
not significantly alleviated when conviction is instead obtained by the addition of a sixth, but dissenting, ballot.
When the requirement of unanimity is abandoned, the vote
of this "additional" juror is essentially superfluous. The
prosecution's demonstrated inability to convince all the jurors

of the accused's guilt certainly does nGthing to allay our concern about the reliability and accuracy of the jury's verdict.
And while the addition of another juror to the five-person
panel may statistically increase the- representativeness of that
body, relinquishment of the unanimity requirement removes

any guarantee that the minority voices will actually be heard.12
damental importance of the jury trial to the American system of criminal
justice, any further reduction that promotes inaccurate and possibly biased
decisionmaking, that causes untoward differences in verdicts, and that
prevents juries from truly representing their communities, attains constitutional significance." Id., at 239.
12 A procedure that permits conviction by the nonunanimous verdict of
a six-member jury significantly decreases the likelihood that the views of a
minority faction will produce a hung jury, thus creating a further imbalance to the detriment of the defense. See n. 10, supra. If a minority
viewpoint is shared by 10% of the community, a 12-member jury may be
expected to include at least 1 minority representative 72% of the time,
a 6-member jury would contain 1 such person 47% of the time, and a
5-member jury only 41% of the time. More important for our purposes,
however, a six-member jury may be expected to include two or more
minority voices in only 11% of the cases. As one acknowledged authority on jury research has explained:
"The important element to observe is that the abandonment of the
unanimity rule is but another way of reducing the size of the jury. But
it is reduction with a vengeance, for a majority verdict requirement is far
more effective in nullifying the potency of minority viewpoints than is the
outright reduction of a jury to a size equivalent to the majority that is
allowed to agree on a verdict."

Zeisel .... And Then There Were None:

The Diminution of the Federal Jury, 38 U. Chi. L. Rev. 710, 722 (1971).
See also M. Saks, Jury Verdicts 99 (1977).

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

447 U. S.

In sum, Burch established that the concurrence of six jurors
was constitutionally required to preserve the substance of the
jury trial right and assure the reliability of its verdict. It
is difficult to envision a constitutional rule that more fundamentally implicates "the fairness of the trial-the very
integrity of the fact-finding process." Linkletter v. Walker,
381 U. S., at 639. "The basic purpose of a trial is the determination of truth," Tehan v. United States ex rel. Shott, 382
U. S. 406, 416 (1966), and it is the jury to whom we have
entrusted the responsibility for making this determination in
serious criminal cases. Any practice that threatens the jury's
ability properly to perform that function poses a similar
threat to the truth-determining process itself. The rule in
Burch was directed toward elimination of just such a practice.
Its purpose, therefore, clearly requires retroactive application."3
13Nonetheless, respondent contends that the question of the retroactive application of Burch is controlled by DeStefano v. Woods, 392 U. S.
631 (1968), in which the Court refused to give retroactive effect to
the extension in Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145 (1968), to state criminal defendants of the right to jury trial in serious cases. Respondent
argues that if the complete absence of a jury does not impair the factfinding process so substantially as to require retroactivity, then surely the
mere presence of a single dissenting juror ought not to compel retroactive
application.
It bears repeating, however, that "the retroactivity or nonretroactivity
of a rule is not automatically determined by the provision of the Con-

stitution on which the dictate is based." Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U. S.,
at 728. Thus our decision not to grant new trials, with juries, to all those
who had been convicted of serious criminal offenses in trials without juries
does not necessarily mean that a constitutional rule directed toward ensuring the proper functioning of the jury in those cases in which it has been
provided must also be given only prospective effect. Cf. Witherspoon v.
Illinois, 391 U. S. 510, 523, n. 22 (1968) (newly announced standards for
selecting juries in capital cases must be applied retroactively). Rather,
"we must determine retroactivity 'in each case' by looking to the peculiar
traits of the specific 'rule in question.'" Johnson v. New Jersey, supra,
at 728.
Once this principle is realized, it should be clear that today's holding
is in no way inconsistent with DeStefano. While the Court there acknowl-

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

Opinion of

BRENNAN, J.

B
Due regard for countervailing considerations-the State's
good-faith reliance on the old standards and the impact of
retroactivity on the administration of justice-does not counsel a contrary result. The element of justifiable reliance on
pre-Burch standards is minimal here. Unlike other cases
that have been accorded prospective effect only, Burch did
not overrule any prior decisions of this Court or invalidate a
practice of heretofore unquestioned legitimacy. See, e. g.,
Desist v. United States, 394 U. S., at 250-251; Stovall v.
Denno, 388 U. S., at 300; Tehan v. United States ex rel. Shott,

supra, at 417. "Therefore, to build a case for good-faith
reliance the State must wring from our decision [s] the negative implication" that conviction by a nonunanimous sixperson jury does not offend the Sixth Amendment's guarantee. See Adams v. Illinois, 405 U. S., at 293 (Douglas, J.,
dissenting). Yet if any implication is to be drawn from
our opinions prior to Burch, it could only be that such a procedure was of doubtful constitutionality. Williams v. Florida,
399 U. S. 78 (1970), for example, highlighted the fact that the
edged that the right to jury trial generally tends to prevent arbitrariness
and repression, 392 U. S., at 633, it also recognized that the decision in
Duncan did not rest on the premise "'that every criminal trial-or any
particular trial-held before a judge alone is unfair or that a defendant
may never be as fairly treated by a judge as he would be by a jury.'"
392 U. S., at 633-634. See also Daniel v. Louisiana, 420 U. S. 31 (1975);
Gosa v. Mayden, 413 U. S., at 680-681. Because other safeguards existed
to ensure the integrity of the factfinding process, and in light of both the
State's justifiable reliance on past opinions of this Court and the devastating impact on the administration of justice that retroactivity would entail,
Duncan was applied prospectively only.
The instant case simply does not fit within DeStefano's mold. As we
have discussed in the text, the failure to provide petitioner with the constitutional guarantees announced in Burch raises serious doubts about the
fairness of his trial and the reliability of the factfinding process. And as
we explain below, retroactive application of Burch should not produce a
significant disruption in the State's administration of its criminal laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

447 U. S.

six-member jury approved in that case was required to render
a unanimous verdict. Id., at 100, and n. 46. And Burch's
rule was distinctly foreshadowed by our decision in Ballew,
which was handed down more than five months before petitioner's trial and which was specifically cited to the trial
court as mandating unanimity in the verdict of a six-member
jury. See supra, at 325-326. Cf. Berger v. California, 393
U. S. 314, 315 (1969).
Similarly, we are confident that retroactive application of
the Burch rule will not have a devastating impact on the
administration of the criminal law. It appears that by 1979
only two States-Louisiana and Oklahoma-permitted conviction of nonpetty offenses by a nonunanimous six-member
jury, see Burch v. Louisiana, 441 U. S., at 138, and n. 12, and
Louisiana, at least, did not institute its scheme until 1975.14
Furthermore, today's decision will not affect the validity of
all convictions obtained under Louisiana's unconstitutional
jury practice during that 4-year period, but only those in
which it can be shown that the vote was in fact less than
unanimous. Thus the number of persons who would have to
14

In Louisiana prior to 1968, cases in which the defendant could not be

sentenced to confinement at hard labor were tried by the judge without
a jury; cases in which punishment at hard labor was optional, but not
mandatory, were tried by a unanimous jury of 5; all other felonies were
tried by a jury of 12. Following our decision in Duncan v. Louisiana,
supra, the Louisiana Legislature amended its criminal code to require jury
trials for all nonpetty offenses. See generally Comment, Jury Trial in
Louisiana-Implications of Duncan, 29 La. L. Rev. 118 (1968). In 1974,
the Louisiana Legislature, through revision of the State Constitution and
Code of Criminal Procedure, again amended its jury trial provisions to
allow for conviction by nonunanimous six-member juries in cases in which
punishment may be imprisonment at hard labor. 1974 La. Acts, Ex. Sess.,
Nos. 23 and 25. See n. 1, supra. These alterations were effective January 1, 1975.
Oklahoma appears to have permitted nonunanimous six-member jury
verdicts only in trials for misdemeanors and in proceedings for the violation of ordinances or regulations of cities and towns. See Okla. Const.,

Art. 2, § 19.

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

be retried or released does not approach the magnitude involved in some of our previous cases. See, e. g., Linkletter v.
Walker, 381 U. S., at 637 (retroactive application would
"tax the administration of justice to the utmost"); Tehan v.
United States ex rel. Shott, 382 U. S., at 419 ("an impact
upon the administration of their criminal law so devastating
as to need no elaboration"); DeStefano v. Woods, 392 U. S.
631, 634 (1968). What little disruption to the administration
of justice results from retroactive application of Burch "must
be considered part of the price we pay for former failures to
provide fair procedures." Adams v. Illinois, supra, at 297
(Douglas, J., dissenting).
Accordingly, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is reversed. The case is remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL, with whom MR. JUSTICE STEVENS
joins, concurring in the judgment.
This Court announced its decision in Burch v. Louisiana,
441 U. S. 130 (1979), while the petitioner's objection to the
nonunanimous verdict was pending on direct appeal. Ante,
at 326. Since I believe that new constitutional rules should
apply retroactively "in cases still pending on direct review,"
Hankerson v. North Carolina, 432 U. S. 233, 248 (1977)
(POWELL, J., concurring in judgment), I concur in the judgment reversing the petitioner's conviction.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE WHITE join, dissenting.
I am in agreement with the Court on the content of the
applicable standards for gauging the need for retroactivity,
but I cannot concur in the Court's application of those standards in this case. The most important question here is
whether it is probable that the Louisiana juries convicting on
a vote of 5 to 1 convicted innocent persons. As the Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

447 U. S.

states, "only when an assessment of those probabilities indicates that the condemned practice casts doubt upon the reliability of the determinations of guilt in past criminal cases must
the new procedural rule be applied retroactively." Ante, at
329. Neither our precedents nor common experience supports
the Court's conclusion that the 5-to-1 vote is inherently unreliable. Just as I think the Court has overstated the probabilities of jury error, I think it has unfairly understated the
State's reliance on our prior law and the burdens on the
administration of the Louisiana justice system which will be
associated with today's ruling.
A
In Williams v. United States, 401 U. S. 646, 655, n. 7 (1971),
we held that retroactivity is only appropriate where the former
practice "presents substantial likelihood that the results of
a number of those trials were factually incorrect." In Hankerson v. North Carolina,432 U. S. 233, 243 (1977), we similarly concluded that the "major purpose" of the new rule must
be to correct a process which "substantially impairs its truthfinding function" raising "serious questions about the accuracy of guilty verdicts in past trials" before a rule should be
retroactively imposed. Quite simply, when five-sixths of the
deliberating jurors reach a finding of guilt, I do not think that
there is a substantial probability that their decision was
wrong.
The Court stresses the part of MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN'S
opinion in Ballew v. Georgia, 435 U. S. 223 (1978), suggesting
that some studies had indicated that the reliability of the
truth-finding process declines when the jury size is reduced.
But I do not think that those citations can be used here to
support the conclusion that the jury verdicts in issue were
probably inaccurate. First, the opinion in Ballew relies
heavily on the conclusions that a jury of only five is too small
in number to ensure effective deliberation and to ensure that
someone among the group will have memory abilities suffi-

BROWN v. LOUISIANA
323

REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

cient to aid the jury in those deliberations. Id., at 241.
These concerns are satisfied when the jury is composed of six
members, even if one of those members is in the dissent. In
fact, as indicated by Johnson v. Louisiana, 406 U. S. 356, 361
(1972), the presence of a dissenting juror strongly supports
the inference that the jury has engaged in meaningful
deliberation:
"We have no grounds for believing that majority jurors,
aware of their responsibility and power over the liberty
of the defendant, would simply refuse to listen to arguments presented to them in favor of acquittal, terminate
discussion, and render a verdict. On the contrary it is far
more likely that a juror presenting reasoned argument in
favor of acquittal would either have his arguments
answered or would carry enough other jurors with him to
prevent conviction. A majority will cease discussion and
outvote a minority only after reasoned discussion has
ceased to have persuasive effect or to serve any other purpose-when a minority, that is, continues to insist upon
acquittal without having persuasive reasons in support
of its position. At that juncture there is no basis for
denigrating the vote of so large a majority of the jury or
for refusing to accept their decision as being, at least in
their minds, beyond a reasonable doubt."
Thus the jury that convicted petitioner satisfied the requirements of jury deliberation that the Court in Batlew found
so critical. Further, our cases have indicated quite clearly
that the degree of persuasion evidenced by a 5-to-1 vote is
sufficient to meet the requirement that guilt be proved beyond
a reasonable doubt. In Johnson, supra, this Court held that
a 9-to-3 verdict could satisfy due process, or in other words,
satisfy the requirement that guilt be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. The degree of persuasion found acceptable there
was far less impressive than that demonstrated by the jury
which convicted petitioner. And yet we said that guilt was

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

447 U. S.

proved beyond a reasonable doubt in Johnson. I think here,
too, we must then conclude that guilt was proved beyond a
reasonable doubt. Since that is true, there has been no constitutionally unacceptable risk of erroneous convictions and
Burch need not be applied retroactively.
There is a further weakness in the Court's estimation of the
probabilities. We simply have no way of knowing whether
the person voting to acquit would have held firm with further
pressure by his fellow jurors. The Court's speculation about
what would have happened had unanimity been required of
Louisiana's six-man juries amounts to just that: speculation.
As long as this Court has approved "Allen charges" in federal
cases over which it may exercise its supervisory authority, it
is difficult to say that a holdout juror might not ultimately
have been persuaded by the five-member majority.
The Court's ruling is also at odds with our decisions in
Gosa v. Mayden, 413 U. S. 665 (1973), and DeStefano v.
Woods, 392 U. S. 631 (1968). In both of those cases, the
Court declined to give retroactive effect to rulings that the
right to jury trial had been totally denied under circumstances
where our system of fairness required that it be afforded.
Nevertheless, as we stated in DeStefano, the "values implemented by the right to jury trial would not measurably be
served by requiring retrial of all persons convicted in the past
by procedures not consistent with the Sixth Amendment right
to jury trial." Id., at 634. The deprivations addressed in
those cases were no less based on procedural reliability than
was the decision in Burch v. Louisiana, 441 U. S. 130 (1979).
B
I also think that the Court has unduly minimized Louisiana's reliance on pre-Burch standards, and greatly underestimated the impact its ruling will have on the Louisiana judicial
system. We have every reason to credit Louisiana with the
presumption that its law was enacted in good faith. Prior to
1974, the Louisiana Constitution allowed for conviction by

BROWN v. LOUISIANA

323

REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

unanimous five-person juries for certain offenses. La. Const.,
Art. 7, § 41 (1921). In 1974 this constitutional provision
was replaced with the nonunanimous six-person jury provision.
The coordinator of legal research for the Constitutional Convention explained in 1974 that he believed this provision satisfied the Federal Constitution, reasoning:
"A six-man jury was upheld in Williams v. Florida,
399 U. S. 78 (1970). If 75 per cent concurrence (%2) was
enough for a verdict as determined in Johnson v. Louisiana, 406 U. S. 356 (1972), then requiring 83 per cent concurrence (%) ought to be within the permissible limits of
Johnson." Hargrave, The Declaration of Rights of the
Louisiana Constitution of 1974, 35 La. L. Rev. 1, 56, n.
300 (1974).
The record similarly suggests that the administrative impact
is substantial. In the first four months of 1979 in just Orleans
Parish alone, 39 defendants were tried by six-person juries.
Brief for Respondent 24, n. 43. The various courts in Louisiana apparently do not necessarily keep a record of the jury
vote. Id., at 28, n. 49. With this large number of sixperson jury trials, the potential for disruption is substantial.
And although the Court states that the decision will only have
an impact where the defendant was "in fact" convicted by less
than six, how is it to be established what "in fact" occurred
without clear records? Ante, at 336. As stated in the opin-

ion of MR.

JUSTICE, BLACKMUN

in Gosa, supra:

"Wholesale invalidation of convictions rendered years
ago could well mean that convicted persons would be
freed without retrial, for witnesses . . .no longer may be
readily available, memories may have faded, records may
be incomplete or missing, and physical evidence may have
disappeared. Society must not be made to tolerate a
result of that kind when there is no significant question
concerning the accuracy of the process by which judgment

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

447 U. S.

was rendered or, in other words, when essential justice is
not involved." 413 U. S., at 685.
Since Burch and Ballew held little more than that "lines
must be drawn somewhere" 441 U. S., at 137; 435 U. S., at
239, Louisiana should not be required to retry defendants
found guilty by reliable factfinders.

