MEXICAN LIGHT CO. v. TEX. MEX. R. CO.
722

731

Syllabus.

We therefore affirm the conclusion to that effect of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and modify the direction of the
judgment of that court "for the entry of a judgment substantially as prayed," so as to leave the District Court free
to frame its decree in accordance with this decision.
It is so ordered.
MEXICAN LIGHT & POWER CO., LTD. v. TEXAS
MEXICAN RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 404.

Argued February 6,1947.-Decided June 16, 1947.

Goods destined for export by rail to Mexico were shipped from the
point of origin over a series of connecting carriers under a bill of
lading issued by the initial carrier and covering the shipment to
the point of export on the Mexican border, the transportation
charges being prepaid to that point. The last connecting carrier
in the United States issued a new bill of lading which purported
to cover the shipment to its ultimate destination in Mexico, but
received no payment for transporting the goods other than its share
of that paid to the initial carrier under the original bill of lading.
Held: Under the Carmack Amendment, the second bill of lading
was void and the last connecting carrier in the United States is
not liable for injuries to the goods incurred on a Mexican railroad
between the border and their ultimate destination in Mexico. Pp.
733-735.
145 Tex. 50, 193 S. W. 2d 964, affirmed.

A Texas state court denied a judgment against an American connecting railroad for injuries sustained on a Mexi-

can railroad to goods exported from the United States.
The Texas Court of Civil Appeals reversed. 190 S. W.
2d 838. It was reversed by the Supreme Court of Texas.
145 Tex. 50, 193 S. W. 2d 964. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 697. Affirmed, p. 735.
755552 0-48-50

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

Charles W. Bell argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Carl G. Stearns.

331 U. S.

With

John P. Bullington argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action to recover damages for injury to goods
in the course of an export shipment by rail. The Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company delivered to
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company in Sharon, Pennsylvania, goods ultimately destined for the Mexican Light
and Power Company. According to the bill of lading
issued by the Pennsylvania Railroad the goods were consigned to
The Mexican Light & Power Co. Ltd.,
c/o Fausto Trevino, Customs Agent,
(National Railways of Mexico).
The destination was Laredo, Texas, with the further
notation
"For Export to: El Oro, Estado de Mexico via
Acambaro via Laredo."
The transportation charges were prepaid at the export
rate, less than the domestic, and they covered shipment
not merely into Laredo but up to the international
boundary.
The Texas-Mexican Railway was the last of the series
of connecting carriers over which the machinery was
routed by the Pennsylvania. The former, having received
the shipment at Alice, Texas, continued the carriage to
its yards at Laredo. At Laredo, there was issued to Fausto
Trevino, the agent, what formally appears to be a bill of
lading consigning the shipment to petitioner at El Oro.

MEXICAN LIGHT CO. v. TEX. MEX. R. CO.
731

733

Opinion of the Court.

The record is silent as to the circumstances that brought
this document into existence, but it is admitted that the
respondent received no payment for transporting the
goods other than its share in the export rate prepaid to the
Pennsylvania under the Sharon bill of lading. Trevino
did use the second bill of lading for clearing the shipment with the Mexican customs, but there is no showing
that the first bill of lading would not have served as documentation for this purpose. The respondent railroad
then moved the goods, still in the original cars, from
its yards to the international boundary. There, the shipment passed to the National Railways of Mexico and it was
on its lines, in Mexico, that the machinery was injured.
Petitioner brought this suit in one of the district courts
of Texas. Judgment went for the railroad. The Texas
Court of Civil Appeals reversed, 190 S. W. 2d 838, but
was in turn reversed by the Supreme Court of Texas.
145 Tex. 50, 193 S. W. 2d 964. We granted certiorari, 329
U. S. 697, because important issues affecting the carrier's
liability under the Interstate Commerce Act were pressed
upon us.
On full consideration of the case it falls within a very
narrow compass. The goods consigned to Laredo moved
on the bill of lading issued at Sharon with the indicated
connections, including the Texas-Mexican. By virtue of
the Carmack Amendment, 34 Stat. 584, amended, 38 Stat.
1196, that bill of lading determines the rights of the consignee. While each connecting carrier is, of course, liable
for damage occurring on its line, only the initial carrier is
liable for damage on any of the connections. Unless,
therefore, the Texas-Mexican Railway was an initial carrier with reference to the Mexican Railroad it cannot be
responsible for injuries on that road. And it did not become an initial carrier merely by force of what purported

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

to be a bill of lading issued at Laredo unless the so-called
second bill of lading represents the initiation of a new
shipment on the Texas-Mexican.
We agree with the Texas Supreme Court that nothing
happened at Laredo to displace the duty which was created at Sharon for the carriage of the goods by the TexasMexican to the international boundary, or to modify the
terms of its undertaking when, at Alice, it received the
goods under the Sharon bill of lading.
What was said of the shipment of cattle in Missouri,
Kansas & Texas R. Co. v. Ward, 244 U. S. 383, 387, is
precisely applicable to the shipment of machinery in this
case:
"The terms of the original bill of lading were not
altered by the second issued by the connecting carrier. As appellants were already bound to transport the cattle at the rate and upon the terms named
in the original bill of lading, the acceptance by the
shipper of the second bill was without consideration
and was void."
No matter what the convenience which a consignee may
derive from a bill of lading issued by a connecting carrier
on a through shipment, unless the connecting carrier has
received a consideration for the bill of lading in addition
to that which flowed under the bill of lading issued by the
initiating carrier, the Carmack Amendment makes such
second bill of lading void. It can neither enlarge the liability of the connecting carrier nor contract that of the
initiating carrier. That is what was meant when the Ward
case said that the purpose of the Carmack Amendment
was "to create in the initial carrier unity of responsibility
for the transportation to destination." Missouri, Kansas & Texas R. Co. v. Ward, supra, at 386. This is an
even stronger case for the application of this principle.

MEXICAN LIGHT CO. v. TEX. MEX. R. CO.
731

REED,

735

J., dissenting.

For in the Ward case the Court found the second bill of
lading void for lack of consideration although it was "alleged to have been issued in consideration of a special
reduced rate theretofore duly filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission" because there was nothing to
indicate that that special rate "affected the through rate
already agreed upon in the original bill of lading." 244
U. S. at 385-86.
Properly finding that the so-called bill of lading did not
evidence any new and independent undertaking, when
judged by the rigid requirements by which bills of lading
are valid under the Carmack Amendment, the Texas Supreme Court was right in holding that the shipment over
the Texas-Mexican legally moved only under the original
bill of lading, that the Pennsylvania was never displaced
as the initial carrier, and that therefore the Texas-Mexican
was not liable for damage that occurred on the Mexican
Railroad.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

REED, with whom MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

VINSON joins, dissenting.

We are of the opinion that the respondent, The Texas
Mexican Railway Company, is the initial carrier under
the bill of lading issued by it at Laredo for carriage of the
articles to El Oro, Mexico. The bill of lading issued
by the Pennsylvania Railroad was for carriage from
Sharon, Pennsylvania, to Laredo, Texas. Accepting the
interpretation of the Court, that this Pennsylvania bill
required the delivery of the shipment by the respondent
at the International Boundary in Laredo, there remains
the necessity of causing the shipment to cross the boundary line and proceed upon its journey into Mexico. As the
Court concedes, the bill of lading, sued upon here, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
R EED,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

used to clear "the shipment with the Mexican customs."
It is also plain that it was this latter bill that caused the
shipment to cross the line. Without it, the respondent
could not have made delivery to the Mexican railway system. The Pennsylvania bill of lading called for delivery
to the consignee's agent in Laredo, Fausto Trevino. The
consideration to respondent for its issue would be a similar
service for northbound shipments from the Mexican Railways or promotion of respondent's export business.
The Ward case, 244 U. S. 383, is not an authority for the
Court's holding. There the suit was brought on a through
bill from a Texas point to an Oklahoma point. The defense was that a new contract had been made with a connecting carrier. It was said, p. 387:
"The bill of lading required to be issued by the initial
carrier upon an interstate shipment governs the entire transportation. The terms of the original bill
of lading were not altered by the second issued by the
connecting carrier. As appellants were already
bound to transport the cattle at the rate and upon the
terms named in the original bill of lading, the acceptance by the shipper of the second bill was without
consideration and was void."
The facts of this case seem to us entirely different and
to require that the respondent railway accept responsibility as the initial carrier.

