OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
331 U. S.

Syllabus.

Courts in order for them to exercise that function in the
light of the present decision.
I would follow that course, so far as the truckers are
concerned.

RUTHERFORD FOOD CORP.

V. McCOMB,
WAGE AND HOUR ADMINISTRATOR.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 562.

Argued April 9, 10, 1947.-Decided June 16, 1947.

1. Boners of meat worked in a slaughterhouse exclusively for the
operator thereof and their work was but one step in a continuous
process the other steps of which were performed by persons who
were admittedly employees of the operator. Held: In the circumstances of this case, the boners were employees of the operator
of the slaughterhouse within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act, even though they worked under a contract, owned their
own tools, and were paid collectively a certain amount per hundredweight of boned beef, which pay they divided among themselves.
Pp. 724-726, 729-730.
2. Decisions defining the coverage of the employer-employee relationship under the National Labor Relations Act and the Social Security
Act are persuasive in the consideration of a similar coverage under
the Fair Labor Standards Act. See Labor Board v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S. 111; United States v. Silk, ante, p. 704. P. 723.
3. Where the work done, in its essence, follows the usual path of an
employee, putting an "independent contractor" label on the worker
does not deprive him of the protection of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. P. 729.
4. Determination of the employer-employee relationship within the
contemplation of the Fair Labor Standards Act does not depend
on isolated factors but rather upon the circumstances of the whole
activity. P. 730.
156 F. 2d 513, conclusion affirmed and direction of judgment modified.

The District Court refused to enjoin alleged violations
of the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed. 156 F. 2d 513. This Court granted

RUTHERFORD FOOD CORP. v. McCOMB.
722

723

Opinion of the Court.

certiorari. 329 U. S. 704. Conclusion affirmed and direction of judgment modified, p. 731.
E. R. Morrison argued the cause for petitioners.
him on the brief was R. L. Hecker.

With

Bessie Margolinargued the cause for respondent. With
her on the brief were Acting Solicitor GeneralWashington,
Philip Elman, William S. Tyson and Morton Lif tin.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of
the Department of Labor brought this action to enjoin the
Rutherford Food Corporation and the Kaiser Packing
Company from further violating the Fair Labor Standards
Act.' The Administrator alleged that the defendants had
repeatedly failed to keep proper records and to pay certain
of its employees overtime as required by § 7 of the Act.2
The District Court refused to grant the injunction. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed on appeal, and directed
the entry of the judgment substantially as prayed for.
Walling v. Rutherford Food Corporation, 156 F. 2d 513.
We brought the case here because of the importance of the
issues presented by the petition for certiorari to the administration of the Act.
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, enacted June 25,
1938, is a part of the social legislation of the 1930's of the
same general character as the National Labor Relations
Act of July 5, 1935, 49 Stat. 449, and the Social Security
Act of August 14, 1935, 49 Stat. 620. Decisions that
define the coverage of the employer-employee relationship
under the Labor and Social Security acts are persuasive
in the consideration of a similar coverage under the Fair
Labor Standards Act. See Labor Board v. Hearst Pub"52 Stat. 1060.
2 29 U. S. C. § 207.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

lications, 322 U. S. 111; United States v. Silk, ante, p. 704,
decided today.
The petitioners are corporations of Missouri authorized
to do business in Kansas. The slaughterhouse of the
Kaiser Packing Company, the place of the alleged violations with which we are concerned, and the principal
place of business of that company, is in Kansas City, Kansas, from which it ships meat in interstate commerce.
Since 1942 most of its product has been boned beef. The
petitioner, Rutherford Food Corporation, has its principal
place of business and its plant for processing meat products in Kansas City, Missouri. In 1943, Rutherford
bought 51% of the stock of Kaiser in order to assure itself
of a constant supply of boned beef for contracts it had
with the U. S. Army. Kaiser had been operating and
continued to operate at a loss, and Rutherford advanced
more than $50,000 to Kaiser between March, when Rutherford bought the Kaiser stock, and July, 1943. To assure itself of a continued supply of meat, Rutherford
leased Kaiser's facilities and took over operation of the
slaughterhouse in July. In May, 1944, the lease was
terminated and Rutherford's stock interest in Kaiser sold,
so that Kaiser might qualify for subsidies granted by the
Defense Supplies Corporation to unaffiliated nonprocessing slaughterers under its Regulation No. 32
Prior to 1942 Kaiser had one hourly paid employee who
acted as a combined butcher, beef boner and order filler.
During 1942, in order to be able to furnish beef boned
to Army specifications to the Army under contract, Kaiser
entered into a written contract with one Reed, an experienced boner, which provided that Reed should assemble
a group of skilled boners to do the boning at the slaughterhouse. The terms of the contract were that Reed should
be paid for the work of boning an amount per hundred3

8 F.

R. 10826; 8 F. R. 14641; 9 F. R. 1820.

RUTHERFORD FOOD CORP. v. McCOMB.
722

725

Opinion of the Court.

weight of boned beef, that he would have complete control
over the other boners, who would be his employees, that
Kaiser would furnish a room in its plant for the work,
known as the boning vestibule, into which the carcasses
of cattle slaughtered by Kaiser would be moved on overhead rails by Kaiser employees, that Kaiser would also
furnish barrels for the boned meat which would be washed
and moved out of the vestibule by Kaiser's employees.
Reed abandoned the work in February, 1943, and the work
was taken over under an oral contract by one of the boners
who had worked with him. This boner, Schindel, also
abandoned the work in May, 1944, and an oral contract
was then made by the company with Hooper and Deere,
who had worked with Schindel. After a few months
Deere left, at which time Hooper entered into a written
contract substantially like the one between Kaiser and
Reed, save that it provided for rent to be paid by Hooper
for the boning room, although as a matter of fact no rent
was ever paid. The District Court found that since the
boning work had started in 1942, the money paid by Kaiser
had been shared equally among all the boners, except for a
short time after Hooper took over the work when he paid
some of the boners by the hour. It was stipulated further
that the boners owned their own tools, although these
consisted merely of a hook to hold the meat, a knife to
cut it, a sharpener for the knife, and a leather belt (apron).
Although the C. I. 0. union which was the representative
of the workers of the company insisted that the boners be
members, and although the written contracts provided
that they should join, it was stipulated that the union dues
of the boners were not checked off and that the boners were
not subject to the authority of the union steward at the
plant.
The slaughterhouse operations, of which the boning is a
part, are carried on in a series of interdependent steps.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The cattle are slaughtered, skinned and dressed in the killing room, and the carcasses are moved thence on overhead
rails into an overnight cooler by employees of Kaiser.
The next day they are moved into another cooler and then
into the boning vestibule, on the same overhead rail.
They move around the boning room on the rail, each boner
cutting off a section for boning. The boneless meat is
put into barrels, or passed to a trimmer, an employee of
Kaiser, who trims waste matter from the boned meat.
Waste is put into other barrels. The barrels are moved
from the boning room by employees of Kaiser into another room, called the dock, where the meat is weighed and
put on trucks. Kaiser has never attempted to control the
hours of the boners, but they must "keep the work current
and the hours they work depend in large measure upon
the number of cattle slaughtered." 156 F. 2d 513, 515.
It is undisputed that the president and manager of Kaiser
goes through the boning vestibule many times a day and
"is after the boners frequently about their failure to cut
all of the meat off the bones."
The Administrator thought these facts brought the
boners within the classification of employees, as that term
is used in the Act. But the District Court thought that
they were independent contractors, and denied the injunction sought by the Administrator. The Circuit Court of
Appeals, however, said: "The operations at the slaughterhouse constitute an integrated economic unit devoted primarily to the production of boneless beef. Practically
all of the work entering into the unit is done at one place
and under one roof. . . . The boners work alongside
admitted employees of the plant operator at their tasks.
The task of each is performed in its natural order as a
contribution to the accomplishment of a common objective." In its view the test for determining who was an
employee under the Act was not the common law test of

RUTHERFORD FOOD CORP. v. McCOMB.
722

727

Opinion of the Court.

control, "as the Act concerns itself with the correction of
economic evils through remedies which were unknown at
common law . . . . " It concluded that the "underlying
economic realities . . . lead to the conclusion that the
boners were and are employees of Kaiser . . . ." 156 F.
2d 513, 516-17.
The Fair Labor Standards Act was passed by Congress
to lessen, so far as seemed then practicable, the distribution in commerce of goods produced under subnormal
labor conditions. An effort to eliminate low wages and
long hours was the method chosen to free commerce from
the interferences arising from production of goods under
conditions that were detrimental to the health and wellbeing of workers. It was sought to accomplish this purpose by the minimum pay and maximum hour provisions
and the requirement that records of employees' services
be kept by the employer.' To make the method effective,
the Act contains a section granting to the district courts
of the United States jurisdiction to enjoin certain violations of the Act here involved, relating to the keeping
of records of employment and the paying of overtime.'
Whether or not the acts charged in this complaint violate
the Act depends, so far as the meat boners are concerned,
upon a determination as to whether either or both respondents are employers of the boners. As our conclusion
requires further action in the trial court to frame the
injunction, we shall treat only the question of the relationship of the boners to the alleged employers. We shall
not in our consideration undertake to reach any conclusion as to the appropriate form of an injunction. We
pass only upon the question whether the boners were
52 Stat. 1060, §§ 2, 6, 7, 11 (c). United States v. Darby, 312 U. S.
100, 125; Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572, 577-78.
5 52 Stat. 1060, §§ 17, 15, 7 (a), 11 (c).
4

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

employees of the operator of the Kansas plant under the
Fair Labor Standards Act.
As in the National Labor Relations Act and the Social
Security Act, there is in the Fair Labor Standards Act
no definition that solves problems as to the limits of the
employer-employee relationship under the Act. Provisions which have some bearing appear in the margin. 6
The definition of "employ" is broad. It evidently derives from the child labor statutes and it should be noted
that this definition applies to the child labor provisions
of this Act, § 12.' We have decided that it is not so broad
as to include those "who, without any express or implied
652 Stat. 1060, § 3:
"As used in this Act"(d) 'Employer' includes any person acting directly or indirectly
in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee ....
"(e) 'Employee' includes any individual employed by an employer.
"(g) 'Employ' includes to suffer or permit to work."
I Note 11 in the brief for the United States summarizes the relevant
data:
"At the time of the enactment of the Fair Labor Standards Act,
the phrase 'employed, permitted or suffered to work' was contained
in the child labor statutes of thirty-two States and the District of
Columbia. The same phraseology appeared in the Uniform Child
Labor Laws recommended in 1911 and in 1930 by the National
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (Child Labor
Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 2, August 1912; Proceedings of the National
Conference, 1930), in the Standard Child Labor Law recommended
in the Child Labor Legislation Handbook compiled by Josephine C.
Goldmark (See e. g., issue of 1904, p. 11), and in the Standards
Recommended for Child Labor Legislation by the International Association of Governmental Labor Officials. The phrase 'employed or
permitted to work' was found in seventeen State statutes as well
as in the Federal statutes held unconstitutional in Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, and Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S.20. The
statutes are cited in the Appendix to this brief, infra, pp. 58-60."

RUTHERFORD FOOD CORP. v. McCOMB.
722

729

Opinion of the Court.

compensation agreement, might work for their own advantage on the premises of another." Walling v. Portland Terminal Co., 330 U. S. 148, 152, decided February
17, 1947. In the same opinion, however, we pointed out
that "This Act contains its own definitions, comprehensive
enough to require its application to many persons and
working relationships which, prior to this Act, were not
deemed to fall within an employer-employee category."
330 U. S. 148, 150. We have said that the Act included
those who are compensated on a piece rate basis. United
States v. Rosenwasser, 323 U. S. 360. We have accepted a
stipulation that station "redcaps" were railroad employees. Williams v. Jacksonville Terminal Co., 315 U. S. 386,
391. There may be independent contractors who take
part in production or distribution who would alone be responsible for the wages and hours of their own employees.
See United States v. Silk, supra; compare Roland Electrical Co. v. Walling, 326 U. S. 657; Martino v. Michigan
Window Cleaning Co., 327 U. S. 173. We conclude, however, that these meat boners are not independent contractors. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals,
quoted above, in its characterization of their work as a part
of the integrated unit of production under such circumstances that the workers performing the task were employees of the establishment. Where the work done, in
its essence, follows the usual path of an employee, putting
on an "independent contractor" label does not take the
worker from the protection of the Act.'
The District Court was of the view that:
"The right to contract is not only an inherent
right but a constitutional right, and independent
contracts, as a method of quantity production of
s See Walling v. American Needlecrafts, 139 F. 2d 60; United
States v. Vogue, Inc., 145 F. 2d 609; Walling v. Twyeffort, Inc., 158 F.
2d 944.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

boned beef, have not been uncommon in the packing
business, generally. . . . The plan under which
boners share equally in the boning money is commonly employed in Kansas City and elsewhere, and
most of the boners who have worked in the Kaiser
plant have worked at various times and in various
plants under independent contractors. There is
nothing inequitable in the sharing method under
which compensation is divided equally among the
group. It gives each man an interest in the amount
of work being done by the other members of the group.
It also gives no advantage to the man who is boning
the fleshier parts of the carcass. Under this plan
beginners and casual boners can be equitably taken
care of by payment on an hourly basis out of the
boning money."
We think, however, that the determination of the relationship does not depend on such isolated factors but
rather upon the circumstances of the whole activity.
Viewed in this way, the workers did a specialty job on
the production line. The responsibility under the boning
contracts without material changes passed from one boner
to another. The premises and equipment of Kaiser were
used for the work. The group had no business organization that could or did shift as a unit from one slaughterhouse to another. The managing official of the plant kept
close touch on the operation. While profits to the boners
depended upon the efficiency of their work, it was more
like piecework than an enterprise that actually depended
for success upon the initiative, judgment or foresight of the
typical independent contractor. Upon the whole, we
must conclude that these meat boners were employees
of the slaughtering plant under the Fair Labor Standards
Act.

MEXICAN LIGHT CO. v. TEX. MEX. R. CO.
722

731

Syllabus.

We therefore affirm the conclusion to that effect of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and modify the direction of the
judgment of that court "for the entry of a judgment substantially as prayed," so as to leave the District Court free
to frame its decree in accordance with this decision.
It is so ordered.
MEXICAN LIGHT & POWER CO., LTD. v. TEXAS
MEXICAN RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 404.

Argued February 6,1947.-Decided June 16, 1947.

Goods destined for export by rail to Mexico were shipped from the
point of origin over a series of connecting carriers under a bill of
lading issued by the initial carrier and covering the shipment to
the point of export on the Mexican border, the transportation
charges being prepaid to that point. The last connecting carrier
in the United States issued a new bill of lading which purported
to cover the shipment to its ultimate destination in Mexico, but
received no payment for transporting the goods other than its share
of that paid to the initial carrier under the original bill of lading.
Held: Under the Carmack Amendment, the second bill of lading
was void and the last connecting carrier in the United States is
not liable for injuries to the goods incurred on a Mexican railroad
between the border and their ultimate destination in Mexico. Pp.
733-735.
145 Tex. 50, 193 S. W. 2d 964, affirmed.

A Texas state court denied a judgment against an American connecting railroad for injuries sustained on a Mexi-

can railroad to goods exported from the United States.
The Texas Court of Civil Appeals reversed. 190 S. W.
2d 838. It was reversed by the Supreme Court of Texas.
145 Tex. 50, 193 S. W. 2d 964. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 697. Affirmed, p. 735.
755552 0-48-50

