BAZLEY v. COMMISSIONER.
Syllabus.

BAZLEY v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
NO.

287.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.*

Argued January 10, 1947.-Decided June 16, 1947.
1. Pursuant to a purported plan of "reorganization" and "recapitalization" of a family corporation, all but one share of which was owned
by a taxpayer and his wife and which had an earned surplus of
$855,783, each old share of stock having a par value of $100 was
exchanged for five new shares of no par value, but a stated value
of $60, and new debenture bonds having a total face value of
$400,000 payable in ten years but callable at any time. Held:
The transaction was not a tax-free "reorganization" within the
meaning of §§ 112 (b) (3) and 112 (g) (1) (E) of the Internal Revenue Code, and the taxpayer is liable for income taxes on the full
value of the debentures. Pp. 742-743.
2. The same conclusion reached as to another similar transaction
varying in some details, including the fact that there was left undisturbed on the books of the corporation an earned surplus account
equal to the value of the debentures distributed in partial exchange
for the old stock. Pp. 743-744.
3. It was not the purpose of the reorganization provisions of § 112
(b) and (g) of the Internal Revenue Code to exempt from payment
of a tax what as a practical matter is a realized gain. P. 740.
4. Since a "recapitalization" within the meaning of § 112 (g) (1) (E)
is one form of "reorganization," nothing can be a recapitalization
for this purpose unless it partakes of those characteristics of a
reorganization which underlie the purpose of Congress in postponing
the tax liability. P. 741.
5. In the case of a corporation which has undistributed earnings, the
creation of new corporate obligations which are transferred to stockholders in relation to their former holdings, so as to produce, for
all practical purposes, the same result as a distribution of cash
earnings of equivalent value, cannot obtain tax immunity because
cast in the form of a recapitalization-reorganization. P. 742.
155 F. 2d 237 and 155 F. 2d 246, affirmed.
*Together with No. 209, Adams v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, also on certiorari to the same Court, argued January 9, 1947.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

No. 287. The Tax Court sustained a determination of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that a taxpayer
was liable for income tax on the full value of debentures
received under a purported "reorganization" of a family
corporation. 4 T. C. 897. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 155 F. 2d 237. This Court granted certiorari.
329 U. S. 701. Affirmed, p. 744.
No. 209. The Tax Court sustained a determination of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that a taxpayer
was liable for income tax on certain debenture bonds
received under a purported "reorganization" of a corporation of which he owned all but a few shares. 5 T. C. 351.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 246.
This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 695. Affirmed,
p. 744.
Sydney A. Gutkin argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner in No. 209.
Henry S. Drinker argued the cause for petitioner in
No. 287. With him on the brief were Frederick E. S.
Morrison and Calvin H. Rankin.
J. Louis Monarch argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington, Sewall Key, Arnold Raum and L. W. Post.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The proper construction of provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code relating to corporate reorganizations is involved in both these cases. Their importance to the
Treasury as well as to corporate enterprise led us to grant
certiorari, 329 U. S. 695, 329 U. S. 701. While there are
differences in detail to which we shall refer, the two cases
may be disposed of in one opinion.

BAZLEY v. COMMISSIONER.
737

Opinion of the Court.

In the Bazley case, No. 287, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed an income tax deficiency against
the taxpayer for the year 1939. Its validity depends on
the legal significance of the recapitalization in that year
of a family corporation in which the taxpayer and his wife
owned all but one of the Company's one thousand shares.
These had a par value of $100. Under the plan of reorganization the taxpayer, his wife, and the holder of the
additional share were to turn in their old shares and
receive in exchange for each old share five new shares
of no par value, but of a stated value of $60, and new
debenture bonds, having a total face value of $400,000,
payable in ten years but callable at any time. Accordingly, the taxpayer received 3,990 shares of the new stock
for the 798 shares of his old holding and debentures
in the amount of $319,200. At the time of these
transactions the earned surplus of the corporation was
$855,783.82.
The Commissioner charged to the taxpayer as income
the full value of the debentures. The Tax Court affirmed
the Commissioner's determination, against the taxpayer's
contention that as a "recapitalization" the transaction
was a tax-free "reorganization" and that the debentures
were "securities in a corporation a party to a reorganization," "exchanged solely for stock or securities in such
corporation" "in pursuance of the plan of reorganization,"
and as such no gain is recognized for income tax purposes.
Internal Revenue Code, §§ 112 (g) (1) (E) and 112 (b)
(3). The Tax Court found that the recapitalization had
"no legitimate corporate business purpose" and was therefore not a "reorganization" within the statute. The
distribution of debentures, it concluded, was a disguised
dividend, taxable as earned income under §§ 22 (a) and
115 (a) and (g). 4 T. C. 897. The Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit, sitting en banc, affirmed,
two judges dissenting. 155 F. 2d 237.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Unless a transaction is a reorganization contemplated
by § 112 (g), any exchange of "stock or securities" in
connection with such transaction, cannot be "in pursuance of the plan of reorganization" under § 112 (b) (3).
While § 112 (g) informs us that "reorganization" means,
among other things, "a recapitalization," it does not inform us what "recapitalization" means. "Recapitalization" in connection with the income tax has been part
of the revenue laws since 1921. 42 Stat. 227, 230, § 202
(c) (2). Congress has never defined it and the Treasury
Regulations shed only limited light. Treas. Reg. 103,
§ 19.112 (g). One thing is certain. Congress did not
incorporate some technical concept, whether that of accountants or of other specialists, into § 112 (g), assuming
that there is agreement among specialists as to the meaning of recapitalization. And so, recapitalization as used
in § 112 (g) must draw its meaning from its function in
that section. It is one of the forms of reorganization
which obtains the privileges afforded by § 112 (g).
Therefore, "recapitalization" must be construed with reference to the presuppositions and purpose of § 112 (g).
It was not the purpose of the reorganization provision to
exempt from payment of a tax what as a practical matter
is realized gain. Normally;, a distribution by a corporation, whatever form it takes, is a definite and rather unambiguous event. It furnishes the proper occasion for
the determination and taxation of gain. But there are
circumstances where a formal distribution, directly or
through exchange of securities, represents merely a new
form of the previous participation in an enterprise, involving no change of substance in the rights and relations
of the interested parties one to another or to the corporate
assets. As to these, Congress has said that they are not
to be deemed significant occasions for determining taxable
gain.

BAZLEY v. COMMISSIONER.
737

Opinion of the Court.

These considerations underlie § 112 (g) and they should
dominate the scope to be given to the various sections,
all of which converge toward a common purpose. Application of the language of such a revenue provision is
not an exercise in framing abstract definitions. In a
series of cases this Court has withheld the benefits of
the reorganization provision in situations which might
have satisfied provisions of the section treated as inert
language, because they were not reorganizations of the
kind with which § 112, in its purpose and particulars, concerns itself. See Pinellas Ice & Cold Storage Co. v.
Commissioner, 287 U. S. 462; Gregory v. Helvering, 293
U. S. 465; LeTulle v. Scofield, 308 U. S. 415.
Congress has not attempted a definition of what is recapitalization and we shall follow its example. The
search for relevant meaning is often satisfied not by a
futile attempt at abstract definition but by pricking a line
through concrete applications. Meaning frequently is
built up by assured recognition of what does not come
within a concept the content of which is in controversy.
Since a recapitalization within the scope of § 112 is an
aspect of reorganization, nothing can be a recapitalization
for this purpose unless it partakes of those characteristics
of a reorganization which underlie the purpose of Congress
in postponing the tax liability.
No doubt there was a recapitalization of the Bazley
corporation in the sense that the symbols that represented
its capital were changed, so that the fiscal basis of its
operations would appear very differently on its books.
But the form of a transaction as reflected by correct corporate accounting opens questions as to the proper application of a taxing statute; it does not close them. Corporate accounting may represent that correspondence between change in the form of capital structure and essential
identity in fact which is of the essence of a transaction

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

relieved from taxation as a reorganization. What is
controlling is that a new arrangement intrinsically partake of the elements of reorganization which underlie the
Congressional exemption and not merely give the appearance of it to accomplish a distribution of earnings.
In the case of a corporation which has undistributed
earnings, the creation of new corporate obligations which
are transferred to stockholders in relation to their former
holdings, so as to produce, for all practical purposes,
the same result as a distribution of cash earnings of
equivalent value, cannot obtain tax immunity because
cast in the form of a recapitalization-reorganization.
The governing legal rule can hardly be stated more
narrowly. To attempt to do so would only challenge
astuteness in evading it. And so it is hard to escape the
conclusion that whether in a particular case a paper recapitalization is no more than an admissible attempt to
avoid the consequences of an outright distribution of
earnings turns on details of corporate affairs, judgment
on which must be left to the Tax Court. See Dobson v.
Commissioner,320 U. S. 489.
What have we here? No doubt, if the Bazley corporation had issued the debentures to Bazley and his wife
without any recapitalization, it would have made a taxable
distribution. Instead, these debentures were issued as
part of a family arrangement, the only additional ingredient being an unrelated modification of the capital account.
The debentures were found to be worth at least their
principal amount, and they were virtually cash because
they were callable at the will of the corporation which
in this case was the will of the taxpayer. One does not
have to pursue the motives behind actions, even in the
more ascertainable forms of purpose, to find, as did the
Tax Court, that the whole arrangement took this form
instead of an outright distribution of cash or debentures,

BAZLEY v. COMMISSIONER.
737

Opinion of the Court.

because the latter would undoubtedly have been taxable
income whereas what was done could, with a show of
reason, claim the shelter of the immunity of a recapitalization-reorganization.
The Commissioner, the Tax Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals agree that nothing was accomplished
that would not have been accomplished by an outright
debenture dividend. And since we find no misconception
of law on the part of the Tax Court and the Circuit Court
of Appeals, whatever may have been their choice of phrasing, their application of the law to the facts of this case
must stand. A "reorganization" which is merely a vehicle,
however elaborate or elegant, for conveying earnings
from accumulations to the stockholders is not a reorganization under § 112. This disposes of the case as a
matter of law, since the facts as found by the Tax Court
bring them within it. And even if this transaction were
deemed a reorganization, the facts would equally sustain
the imposition of the tax on the debentures under § 112
(c) (1) and (2). Commissioner v. Estate of Bedford,
325 U. S. 283.
In the Adams case, No. 209, the taxpayer owned all
but a few of the 5914 shares of stock outstanding out
of an authorized 6000, par value $100. By a plan of
reorganization, the authorized capital was reduced by
half, to $295,700, divided into 5914 shares of no par value
but having a stated value of $50 per share. The 5914
old shares were cancelled and the corporation issued in
exchange therefor 5914 shares of the new no-par common
stock and 6 per cent 20 year debenture bonds in the principal amount of $295,700. The exchange was made on
the basis of one new share of stock and one $50 bond for
each old share. The old capital account was debited in
the sum of $591,400, a new no-par capital account was
credited with $295,700, and the balance of $295,700 was

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

credited to a "Debenture Payable" account. The corporation at this time had accumulated earnings available
for distribution in a sum not less than $164,514.82, and
this account was left unchanged. At the time of the
exchange, the debentures had a value not less than
$164,208.82.
The Commissioner determined an income tax deficiency
by treating the debenture bonds as a distribution of the
corporation's accumulated earnings. The Tax Court sustained the Commissioner's determination, 5 T. C. 351, and
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 246.
The case is governed by our treatment of the Bazley
case. The finding by the Tax Court that the reorganization had no purpose other than to achieve the
distribution of the earnings, is unaffected by the bookkeeping detail of leaving the surplus account unaffected.
See § 115 (b), and Commissioner v. Wheeler, 324 U. S.
542, 546.
Other claims raised have been considered but their
rejection does not call for discussion.
Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE BURTON dissent

in both cases for the reasons stated in the joint dissent
of Judges Maris and Goodrich in the court below.
Bazley v. Commissioner, 155 F. 2d 237, 244.

