OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

McWILLIAMS v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
NO. 945.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT. *

Argued May 8, 1947.-Decided June 16, 1947.
1. In order to establish tax losses, a husband who managed the separate estate of his wife, as well as his own, ordered his broker to sell
certain stock for the account of one of the two and to buy the same
number of shares of the same stock for the other, at as nearly the
same price as possible. The sales were made to, and the purchases
from, unknown strangers through a stock exchange, and the buying
spouse received stock certificates different from those which the
other had sold. Held: Deductions in their separate income tax
returns for losses on such sales are forbidden by § 24 (b) of the
Internal Revenue Code, as losses from "sales or exchanges of
property, directly or indirectly . . . Between members of a family."
Pp. 695-703.
2. The purpose of § 24 (b) was to put an end to the right of taxpayers
to choose, by intra-family transfers and other designated devices,
their own time for realizing tax losses on investments which, for most
practical purposes, are continued uninterrupted-regardless of the
manner in which the transfers are accomplished. Pp. 700-701.
3. The words "directly or indirectly" in § 24 (b) preclude a construction which would limit the prohibition to direct intra-family transfers or to those in which the units of fungible property sold by one
spouse and those bought by the other are identical. Pp. 702-703.
158 F. 2d 637, affirmed.

The Tax Court expunged deficiency assessments for
losses realized from indirect intra-family transfers of
stocks. 5 T. C. 623. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 158 F. 2d 637. This Court granted certiorari.
330 U. S. 814. Affirmed, p. 703.
John A. Hadden argued the cause for petitioners.
him on the brief was John S. Beard, Jr.

With

*Together with No. 946, Estate of McWilliams et al. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and No. 947, McWilliams v. Commissioner
of InternalRevenue, also on certiorari to the same Court.

McWILLIAMS v. COMMISSIONER.
694

Opinion of the Court.

Arnold Raum argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Sewall Key, Lee A. Jackson and Morton K. Rothschild.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The facts of these cases are not in dispute. John P.
McWilliams, petitioner in No. 945, had for a number of
years managed the large independent estate of his wife,
petitioner in No. 947, as well as his own. On several
occasions in 1940 and 1941 he ordered his broker to sell
certain stock for the account of one of the two and to
buy the same number of shares of the same stock for
the other, at as nearly the same price as possible. He
told the broker that his purpose was to establish tax
losses. On each occasion the sale and purchase were
promptly negotiated through the Stock Exchange, and
the identity of the persons buying from the selling spouse
and of the persons selling to the buying spouse was never
known. Invariably, however, the buying spouse received
stock certificates different from those which the other had
sold. Petitioners filed separate income tax returns for
these years, and claimed the losses which he or she sustained on the sales as deductions from gross income.
The Commissioner disallowed these deductions on the
authority of § 24 (b) of the Internal Revenue Code,1
1 The

material parts of § 24 (b) are as follows:

"(b) LOSSES
"(1)

FROM SALES OR EXCHANGES OF PROPERTY.-

LOSSES DISALLOWED.-In computing net income no deduction

shall in any case be allowed in respect of losses from sales or exchanges
of property, directly or indirectly"(A) Between members of a family, as defined in paragraph (2)

(D);
"(B) Except in the case of distributions in liquidation, between an

individual and a corporation more than 50 per centum in value of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

which prohibits deductions for losses from "sales or exchanges of property, directly or indirectly . . . Between
members of a family," and between certain other closely
related individuals and corporations.
On the taxpayers' applications to the Tax Court, it held
§ 24 (b) inapplicable, following its own decision in Ickelheimer v. Commissioner,' and expunged the Commissioner's deficiency assessments.3 The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed the Tax Court ' and we granted certiorari ' because of a conflict between circuits 6 and the importance
of the question involved.
outstanding 'stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by or for
such individual;

"(C) Except in the case of distributions in liquidation, between two
corporations more than 50 per centum in value of the outstanding
stock of each of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by or for the
same individual, if either one of such corporations, with respect to the
taxable year of the corporation preceding the date of the sale or exchange was, under the law applicable to such taxable year, a personal
holding company or a foreign personal holding company;
"(D) Between a grantor and a fiduciary of any trust;
"(E) Between the fiduciary of a trust and the fiduciary of another
trust, if the same person is a grantor with respect to each trust; or
"(F) Between a fiduciary of a trust and a beneficiary of such
trust."
Section 24 (b) (2) (D) defines the family of an individual to include
"only his brothers and sisters (whether by the whole or half blood),
spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants; . ...

245 B. T. A. 478, affirmed, 132 F. 2d 660 (C. C. A. 2).
3 5 T. C. 623.
4 158 F. 2d 637 (C. C. A. 6).
5 330 U. S.814. In No. 946, the petition for certiorari of the Estate
of Susan P. McWilliams, the deceased mother of John P. McWilliams,
was granted at the same time as the petitions in Nos. 945 and 947,
and the three cases were consolidated in this Court. As all three
present the same material facts and raise precisely the same issues,
no further reference will be made to the several cases separately.
6 The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Commissioner v. Ickelheimer, supra, note 2, is in conflict on

McWILLIAMS v. COMMISSIONER.
694

697

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners contend that Congress could not have intended to disallow losses on transactions like those described above, which, having been made through a public
market, were undoubtedly bona fide sales, both in the
sense that title to property was actually transferred, and
also in the sense that a fair consideration was paid in
exchange. They contend that the disallowance of such
losses would amount, pro tanto, to treating husband and
wife as a single individual for tax purposes.
In support of this contention, they call our attention
to the pre-1934 rule, which applied to all sales regardless
of the relationship of seller and buyer, and -made the
deductibility of the resultant loss turn on the "good faith"
of the sale, i. e., whether the seller actually parted with
title and control.7 They point out that in the case of
the usual intra-family sale, the evidence material to this
issue was peculiarly within the knowledge and even the
control of the taxpayer and those amenable to his wishes,
and inaccessible to the Government.8 They maintain
that the only purpose of the provisions of the 1934 and
1937 Revenue Acts-the forerunners of § 24 (b)--was to
this point with the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit in the present case, and also with that of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in Commissioner v. Kohn, 158
F. 2d 32.
1 Commissioner v. Hale, 67 F. 2d 561 (C. C. A. 1) ; Zimmermann v.
Commissioner, 36 B. T. A. 279, reversed on other grounds, 100 F. 2d
1023 (C. C. A. 3) ; Uihlein v. Commissioner, 30 B. T. A. 399, affirmed,
82 F. 2d944 (C. C. A. 7).
8
See H. Rep. No. 1546, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 26 (1939-1 Cum.
Bull. (Part 2) 704, 722-723). See also cases cited in note 7, supra.
9The provisions of §24 (b) (1) (A) and (B) of the Internal Revenue Code originated in § 24 (a) (6) of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48
Stat. 680, 691. These provisions were reenacted without change as
§ 24 (a) (6) of the Revenue Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1648, 1662, and the
provisions of § 24 (b) (1) (C), (D), (E), and (F) of the Code were
added by § 301 of the 1937 Act, 50 Stat. 813, 827.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

overcome these evidentiary difficulties by disallowing
losses on such sales irrespective of good faith. It seems
to be petitioners' belief that the evidentiary difficulties
so contemplated were only those relating to proof of the
parties' observance of the formalities of a sale and of the
fairness of the price, and consequently that the legislative
remedy applied only to sales made immediately from one
member of a family to another, or mediately through a
controlled intermediary.
We are not persuaded that Congress had so limited an
appreciation of this type of tax avoidance problem. Even
assuming that the problem was thought to arise solely
out of the taxpayer's inherent advantage in a contest
concerning the good or bad faith of an intra-family sale,
deception could obviously be practiced by a buying
spouse's agreement or tacit readiness to hold the property
sold at the disposal of a selling spouse, rather more easily
than by a pretense of a sale where none actually occurred,
or by an unfair price. The difficulty of determining the
finality of an intra-family transfer was one with which
the courts wrestled under the pre-1934 law,"0 and which
Congress undoubtedly meant to overcome by enacting
the provisions of § 24 (b). 11
It is clear, however, that this difficulty is one which
arises out of the close relationship of the parties, and
would be met whenever, by prearrangement, one spouse
sells and another buys the same property at a common
price, regardless of the mechanics of the transaction. Indeed, if the property is fungible, the possibility that a
sale and purchase may be rendered nugatory by the buying
10Cf. Shoenberg v. Commissioner,77 F. 2d 446 (C. C. A. 8); Cole v.

Helburn, 4 F. Supp. 230; Zimmermann v. Commissioner, supra,
note 7.
11 See H. Rep. No. 1546, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 26, supra, note 8.

McWILLIAMS v. COMMISSIONER.
694

Opinion of the Court.

spouse's agreement to hold for the benefit of the selling
spouse, and the difficulty of proving that fact against
the taxpayer, are equally great when the units of the
property which the one buys are not the identical units
which the other sells.
Securities transactions have been the most common vehicle for the creation of intra-family losses. Even if we
should accept petitioners' premise that the only purpose
of § 24 (b) was to meet an evidentiary problem, we could
agree that Congress did not mean to reach the transactions
in this case only if we thought it completely indifferent to
the effectuality of its solution.
Moreover, we think the evidentiary problem was not
the only one which Congress intended to meet. Section
24 (b) states an absolute prohibition-not a presumption-against the allowance of losses on any sales between
the members of certain designated groups. The one common characteristic of these groups is that their members,
although distinct legal entities, generally have a nearidentity of economic interests.12 It is a fair inference that
even legally genuine intra-group transfers were not
thought to result, usually, in economically genuine realizations of loss, and accordingly that Congress did not deem
them to be appropriate occasions for the allowance of
deductions.
The pertinent legislative history lends support to this
inference. The Congressional Committees, in reporting
the provisions enacted in 1934, merely stated that "the
practice of creating losses through transactions between
members of a family and close corporations has been frequently utilized for avoiding the income tax," and that
these provisions were proposed to "deny losses to be taken
in the case of [such] sales" and "to close this loophole of
12

See the text of § 24 (b) (1), quoted in note 1.
755552 o-48-48

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

tax avoidance."

13

331 U. S.

Similar language was used in reporting

the 1937 provisions. 4 Chairman Doughton of the Ways
and Means Committee, in explaining the 1937 provisions
to the House, spoke of "the artificial taking and establishment of losses where property was shuffled back and forth
between various legal entities owned by the same persons
or person," and stated that "these transactions seem to
occur at moments remarkably opportune to the real party
in interest in reducing his tax liability but, at the same
time allowing him to keep substantial control of the assets
being traded or exchanged." 11
We conclude that the purpose of § 24 (b) was to put an
end to the right of taxpayers to choose, by intra-family
transfers and other designated devices, their own time for
realizing tax losses on investments which, for most practical purposes, are continued uninterrupted.
We are clear as to this purpose, too, that its effectuation
obviously had to be made independent of the manner in
which an intra-group transfer was accomplished. Congress, with such purpose in mind, could not have intended
to include within the scope of § 24 (b) only simple transfers made directly or through a dummy, or to exclude
13H.

Rep. No. 704, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 23 (1939-1 Cum. Bull.
(Part 2) 554, 571); S. Rep. No. 558, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 2 7 (1939-1
Cum. Bull. (Part 2) 586, 607).
14 The type of situations to which these provisions applied was
described as being that "in which, due to family relationships or
friendly control, artificial losses might be created for tax purposes."
H. Rep. No. 1546, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 28 (1939-1 Cum. Bull.
(Part 2) 704, 724).
1581 Cong. Rec. 9019. Representative Hill, chairman of a House
subcommittee on the income-tax laws, explained to the House with
reference to the 1934 provisions that the Committee had "provided
in this bill that transfers between members of the family for the purpose of creating a loss to be offset against ordinary income shall not
be recognized for such deduction purposes." 78 Cong. Rec. 2662.

McWILLIAMS v. COMMISSIONER.
694

Opinion of the Court.

transfers of securities effected through the medium of the
Stock Exchange, unless it wanted to leave a loop-hole
almost as large as the one it had set out to close.
Petitioners suggest that Congress, if it truly intended to
disallow losses on intra-family transactions through the
market, would probably have done so by an amendment
to the wash sales provisions, 6 making them applicable
where the seller and buyer were members of the same
family, as well as where they were one and the same individual. This extension of the wash sales provisions,
however, would bar only one particular means of accomplishing the evil at which § 24 (b) was aimed, and the
necessity for a comprehensive remedy would have
remained.
Nor can we agree that Congress' omission from § 24 (b)
of any prescribed time interval, comparable in function to
that in the wash sales provisions, indicates that § 24 (b)
was not intended to apply to intra-family transfers
through the Exchange. Petitioners' argument is predicated on the difficulty which courts may have in deter""Sec. 118 of the Internal Revenue Code, which first appeared in its
present form as § 118 of the Revenue Act of 1932, 47 Stat. 169, 208,
provides in part as follows:
"SEC. 118. LOSS FROM WASH SALES OF STOCK OR
SECURITIES.
"(a) In the case of any loss claimed to have been sustained from
any sale or other disposition of shares of stock or securities where it
appears that, within a period beginning 30 days before the date of
such sale or disposition and ending 30 days after such date, the taxpayer has acquired (by purchase or by an exchange upon which the
entire amount of gain or loss was recognized by law), or has entered
into a contract or option so to acquire, substantially identical stock
or securities, then no deduction for the loss shall be allowed under
section 23 (e) (2); nor shall such deduction be allowed under section
23 (f) unless the claim is made by a corporation, a dealer in stocks
or securities, and with respect to a transaction made in the ordinary

course of its business."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

mining whether the elapse of certain periods of time between one spouse's sale and the other's purchase of like
securities on the Exchange is of great enough importance
in itself to break the continuity of the investment and
make § 24 (b) inapplicable.
Precisely the same difficulty may arise, however, in the
case of an intra-family transfer through an individual intermediary, who, by pre-arrangement, buys from one
spouse at the market price and a short time later sells the
identical certificates to the other at the price prevailing
at the time of sale. The omission of a prescribed time
interval negates the applicability of § 24 (b) to the former
type of transfer no more than it does to the latter. But if
we should hold that it negated both, we would have
converted the section into a mere trap for the unwary."7
Petitioners also urge that, whatever may have been
Congress' intent, its designation in § 24 (b) of sales "between" members of a family is not adequate to comprehend the transactions in this case, which consisted only
of a sale of stock by one of the petitioners to an unknown
stranger, and the purchase of different certificates of stock
by the other petitioner, presumably from another
stranger.
We can understand how this phraseology, if construed
literally and out of context, might be thought to mean
V We have noted petitioners' suggestion that a taxpayer is assured,
under the wash sales provisions, of the right to deduct the loss incurred
on a sale of securities, even though he himself buys similar securities
thirty-one days later; and that he should certainly not be precluded
by § 24 (b) from claiming a similar loss if the taxpayer's spouse, instead of the taxpayer, makes the purchase under the same circumstances. We do not feel impelled to comment on these propositions,
however, in a case in which the sale and purchase were practically
simultaneous and the net consideration received by one spouse and
that paid by the other differed only in the amount of brokers'
commissions and excise taxes.

McWILLIAMS v. COMMISSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

694

only direct intra-family transfers. But petitioners concede that the express statutory reference to sales made
"directly or indirectly" precludes that construction.
Moreover, we can discover in this language no implication
whatsoever that an indirect intra-family sale of fungibles
is outside the statute unless the units sold by one spouse
and those bought by the other are identical. Indeed, if
we accepted petitioners' construction of the statute, we
think we would be reading into it a crippling exception
which is not there.
Finally, we must reject petitioners' assertion that the
Dobson rule 18 controls this case. The Tax Court found
the facts as we stated them, and then overruled the Commissioner's determination because it thought that § 24 (b)
had no application to a taxpayer's sale of securities on the
Exchange to an unknown purchaser, regardless of what
other circumstances accompanied the sale. We have decided otherwise, and on our construction of the statute,
and the conceded facts, the Tax Court could not have
reached a result contrary to our own."
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BURTON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.

18 Dobson
'9

v. Commissioner,320 U. S. 489.

Cf. Trust of Bingham v. Commissioner, 325 U. S. 365.

