MADISON AVE. CORP. v. ASSELTA.
Syllabus.

149 MADISON AVENUE CORP.
ASSELTA

ET AL. V.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 497.

Argued February 11, 1947.-Decided May 5,1947.

1. A wage agreement entered into by direction of the National War
Labor Board providing that employees should be paid fixed weekly
wages for workweeks of specified length, in excess of 40 hours, and
that the "hourly rate" was to be determined by dividing weekly
earnings by the number of hours employed plus one-half of the
number of hours actually worked in excess of 40, which actually
was applied so as to result in a scheduled workweek in excess of
40 hours without effective provision for overtime pay until employees had completed the scheduled workweek, held not in conformity with the overtime pay requirements of § 7 (a) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act. Pp. 203-210.
2. The "hourly rate" derived from the formula prescribed in the
agreement was not the "regular rate" of pay within the meaning
of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Pp. 203-210.
3. Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624, and Walling v. Halliburton
Co., 331 U. S. 17, distinguished. P. 209.
156 F. 2d 139, affirmed.

Respondents sued their employer, petitioner here, to
recover sums allegedly due them under the Fair Labor
Standards Act, and were awarded judgment in the District Court. 65 F. Supp. 385. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 156 F. 2d 139. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 817. Affirmed, p. 210. Judgment
modified, post, pp. 210, 795.
Robert R. Bruce argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were Walter Gordon Merritt and
John J. Boyle.
Wilbur Duberstein argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Frederick E. Weinberg.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Briefs were filed as amici curiae by Samuel I. Rosenman, Godfrey Goldnark and Richard S. Salant for the
Midtown Realty Owners' Association, Inc., and Murray
I. Gurfein for the 128 West 30th Street Corporation et al.,
urging reversal.
Acting Solicitor General Washington, William S. Tyson,
Bessie Margolin and Morton Lif tin filed a brief for the
Wage & Hour Administrator, United States Department
of Labor, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This employee suit was brought in the District Court to
recover overtime compensation, liquidated damages, and
a reasonable attorney's fee pursuant to §§ 7 (a) and 16 (b)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.' Recovery was
allowed in the District Court, 65 F. Supp. 385, and that
judgment was affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
156 F. 2d 139. We granted certiorari to consider the
152 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq.

Insofar as pertinent,

§ 7 (a) provides:
"No employer shall, except as otherwise provided in this section,
employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the
production of goods for commerce"(3) for a workweek longer than forty hours after the expiration
of the second year from such date, unless such employee receives
compensation for his employment in excess of the hours above specified at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate
at which he is employed."
Section 16 (b) provides in part:
"Any employer who violates the provisions of section 6 or section 7
of this Act shall be liable to the employee or employees affected in
the amount of their unpaid minimum wages, or their unpaid overtime
compensation, as the case may be, and in an additional equal amount
as liquidated damages .

MADISON AVE. CORP. v. ASSELTA.
199

Opinion of the Court.

important questions presented relating to the application
of the overtime provisions of the above-mentioned
statute.
Respondents are service and maintenance employees
who, during the period in question, worked in a loft building owned by petitioner 149 Madison Avenue Corporation
and managed by petitioner Williams & Co. It has been
stipulated that respondents were engaged in the production of goods for commerce.! We are here concerned with
the period of employment extending from April 21, 1942,
to December 10, 1943.
Prior to April 21, 1942, employment relations between
the petitioners and respondents were governed by a collective wage agreement, known as the Sloan Agreement.'
According to its terms, employees were paid flat weekly
wages for workweeks of specified length which, in the case
of most of the respondents, am6unted to $25 for 47 hours
of weekly employment. No hourly rates were specified,
nor was any attempt made to compensate employees at
the rate of time and one-half for hours worked in excess
of 40 in any week.
As the expiration date of the Sloan Agreement drew
near, negotiations between the interested parties were
initiated for the purpose of reaching agreement on a new
contract. After preliminary conferences proved fruitless,
the case was certified to the War Labor Board. That
Petitioners have raised no objection as to the amount of the
recovery allowed the respondents by the District Court if it be
assumed that the lower courts otherwise correctly determined their
liability.
3The Sloan Agreement was negotiated between the Realty Advisory
Board on Labor Relations, Incorporated, as agent for various owners
of loft, office and apartment buildings located in the Borough of
Manhattan in the City of New York, and Local 32-B of the Building
Service Employees International Union on behalf of its members.
The same parties negotiated the agreement in question.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

agency stated its recommendations in a directive order
issued July 29, 1942; and on September 1, 1942, the parties
entered into the agreement in question, known as the
National War Labor Board Agreement. It had been
agreed that the terms of the new contract were to be made
retroactive to April 20, 1942, the expiration date of the
Sloan agreement.
The new contract provided for a workweek of 54 hours
applicable to watchmen and a workweek of 46 hours for
other regular employees. Weekly wages were established
to compensate the 54 or 46 hours of labor, which sums were
stated to include both payments for the regular hours of
employment and time and one-half for the hours in excess
of 40. To derive the hourly rate from the weekly wage,
the following formula was included:
"The hourly rates for those regularly employed more
than forty (40) hours per week shall be determined by
dividing their weekly earnings by the number of hours
employed plus one-half the number of hours actually
employed in excess of forty (40) hours."
Although a literal reading of the above language might
seem to indicate the establishment of a variable hourly rate
dependent upon the number of hours actually worked in
any given week, such was not the practical construction
of the parties. Instead of making use of the number of
hours actually worked, only the hours the employee was
scheduled to work and the weekly wage for such scheduled
workweek entered into the calculation of the non-overtime
hourly rate.4 The hourly rate as derived from the formula
remained constant, therefore, regardless of whether the
employee worked the scheduled number of hours during
the week or a greater or lesser number. In effect, the
4In case of an employee hired for a regular 46 hour week at a
weekly wage of $27.50, the "hourly rate" was derived from the formula
by means of the following calculation: $27.50--[46+1/2(46-40)]=
$.561 per hour. In effect, the formula rate is obtained, not by dividing

MADISON AVE. CORP. v. ASSELTA.
199

Opinion of the Court.

agreement instead of directly stating a fixed hourly rate
in terms of a stipulated amount per hour provided a
formula whereby such a fixed hourly rate could be
calculated.
Under the agreement, weekly compensation varied according to the number of hours worked in that week.
Thus, in case an employee was unable to work all his scheduled hours due to an "excusable cause," he was paid at
the formula rate with the provision, however, that six of
the hours worked should be compensated as overtime regardless of whether the total of hours actually worked was
greater or less than 40 in that week. If the employee's
absence was not excusable, he was apparently paid a sum
for the week obtained by multiplying the number of hours
actually worked times the formula rate, being given credit
for overtime only in case the number of hours worked
exceeded 40.1 The agreement provided that all regular
employees except watchmen should be compensated at a
rate one and three-quarters times the hourly rate derived
from the formula for hours worked in excess of 46.
Watchmen were to be paid twice the formula rate for
hours worked in excess of 54. Part-time workers employed for less than the scheduled workweek were hired
at a specified schedule of hourly rates obtained by dividing
the weekly wage paid the regular employees by the number of hours in the regular workweek.
It was not the purpose of Congress in enacting the Fair
Labor Standards Act to impose upon the almost infinite
the weekly wage by 46, the number of hours scheduled to be worked,
but by dividing that sum by 49, a divisor determined by the formula.
In the case of a watchman hired for a 54 hour week at the same
weekly wage, the formula rate was determined by this calculation:
$27.50--[54+1/2(54-40)]-$.4508 per hour.
5 The agreement made no specific provision for situations involving
unexcused absences. The above-described procedure seems to have
been applied in practice, however.
755552 0-48-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

variety of employment situations a single, rigid form of
wage agreement. Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624
(1942). Section 7 (a) of the Act requires, however, that
any wage agreement falling within its purview must establish an hourly "regular rate" not less than the statutory minimum and provide for overtime payments of at
least one and one-half times the "regular rate." A wage
plan is not rendered invalid simply because, instead of
stating directly an hourly rate of pay in an amount consistent with the statutory requirements, the parties have
seen fit to stipulate a weekly wage inclusive of regular and
overtime compensation for a workweek in excess of 40
hours and have provided a formula whereby the appropriate hourly rate may be derived therefrom. The crucial
questions in this case, however, are whether the hourly
rate derived from the formula here presented was, in fact,
the "regular rate" of pay within the statutory meaning
and whether the wage agreement under consideration,
in fact, made adequate provision for overtime compensation.
We have held that the words "regular rate," while not
expressly defined in the statute,

".

.

. mean the hourly

rate actually paid for the normal, non-overtime workweek." Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, Inc., 323 U. S.
37, 40 (1944). The regular rate is thus an "actual fact,"
and in testing the validity of a wage agreement under the
Act the courts are required to look beyond that which
the parties have purported to do. Walling v. Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood Co., 325 U. S. 419, 424 (1945).
It is the contention of the respondents that the rate derived
by the use of the contract formula was not the regular rate
of pay; that the regular rate actually paid was substantially that obtained by dividing the weekly wage payable
for the working-of the scheduled workweek by the number
of hours in such scheduled workweek; and that, consequently, the plan made no adequate provision for over-

MADISON AVE. CORP. v. ASSELTA.
199

Opinion of the Court.

time compensation until employees regularly hired as
watchmen had worked a total of 54 hours in one week and
until other regular employees had worked a total of 46
hours. We believe that the record provides ample support
for that view.
Thus, in determining a schedule of hourly rates payable
to part-time workers employed less than 40 hours a week,
no use whatsoever was made of the hourly rate derived
from the formula. Part-time workers were paid a rate
determined by dividing the weekly wage paid to the regular employees by the number of hours in the regular workweek despite the fact that, according to the terms of
the formula, the weekly wage included both regular and
overtime pay. Insofar as part-time workers were concerned, the agreement clearly indicated an intention to
compensate an hour's labor by payment of a pro-rata share
of the weekly wage.
Nor was there consistent application of the hourly rate
as determined by the formula to the work of regular employees hired for a full 46-hour week. Where such an
employee was absent for an "excusable cause," his weekly
compensation was not determined by multiplying the formula rate by the hours worked. Rather, six of the hours
the employee worked were always treated as overtime
and compensated at the rate of one and one-half times
the formula rate regardless of the total hours actually
worked, thus resulting in average hourly compensation
considerably in excess of the formula rate. The payment
of "overtime" compensation for non-overtime work raises
strong doubt as to the integrity of the hourly rate upon
the basis of which the "overtime" compensation is calculated. Cf. Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, Inc., supra.
While the average hourly rate actually received by the
employee in this situation was not precisely that which
would have resulted from dividing the weekly wage by
46, it ordinarily approached that figure much more closely

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

than it did the so-called hourly rate established by the
formula.' This method of payment reveals further evidence of an attempt to pay a pro-rata share of the weekly
wage for an hour's labor regardless of the number of hours
worked up to 46.
The agreement provided that hours worked in excess of
the scheduled 46-hour week should be compensated at
the rate of one and three-quarters of the formula rate.'
While the formula rate seems to have been consistently
applied in such situations, it is significant to observe that
the amount received by the worker under these circumstances approximates very closely that which he would
have received had he been paid an hourly rate determined
by dividing the weekly wage payable for the scheduled
workweek by 46 with payment of time and one-half for
hours worked in excess of 46.8 This approximation was
6 Thus the employee Anderson worked only 39 hours in the week of
Feb. 14, 1943, the 7 hours of absence apparently being due to an
"excusable cause." Under the agreement, which would entitle him
to six hours of "overtime" pay, he should have received weekly compensation in the amount of $23.56. The actual average hourly rate
during that week accordingly would be $.604. If Anderson had been
paid on an hourly basis determined by dividing the weekly wage paid
for a scheduled workweek by the number of hours in such workweek, he
would have received $.598, whereas, had he been paid the straight
formula rate he would have received $.561 per hour. So also, the
petitioner Peterson in the week of Dec. 13, 1942, was absent 16 hours
for excusable causes. The payroll records reveal he earned $18.50
or an actual average hourly rate of $.617 as compared to $.598, the
average rate for a scheduled workweek, and to $.561, the formula
rate.
7 In the case of watchmen, who were assigned a scheduled week of
54 hours, twice the formula rate was paid for hours worked in excess
of 54.
8 Thus if an employee hired for a regular workweek of 46 hours
at $27.50 worked 50 hours in one week, his total weekly compensation
would amount to $31.43 if compensated in accordance with the terms
of the agreement. If, instead, the employee were hired on a straight
weekly basis at the same weekly wage with provision for time and

MADISON AVE. CORP. v. ASSELTA.
199

207

Opinion of the Court.

not fortuitous. In the directive order of the National
War Labor Board the origin and purpose of these provisions are discussed, and the following statement is made:
"Overtime over forty-six (46) hours is paid at a rate of
time and three-quarters in an effort approximately to
equal the overtime to which an employee would ordinarily
be entitled, if it were computed on the basis of time and
a half after a forty-six (46) hour week." '
Petitioners have argued that none of these provisions
provides a conclusive demonstration that the formula
rate was not the actual regular rate of pay. It is said that
part-time employees were paid a pro-rata hourly rate
since they had no opportunity to earn overtime compensation; that the method of paying regular employees in case
of excusable absences was merely a laudable effort on the
part of the employer to compensate more fully than the
Act requires when an employee failed to work his scheduled week because of illness or like causes; and that the
time and three-quarters provision represented an additional premium for employees called upon to work hours
one-half the average hohrly rate, for hours worked in excess of 46,
he would receive $31.09 as total weekly compensation for 50 hours
of work. If a watchman, scheduled to work a 54-hour week at $27.50
actually worked 58 hours he would receive $31.11 weekly compensation if calculated according to the agreement, or $30.55 if calculated
on a straight weekly basis with time and one-half for hours worked
in excess of 54.
9 (Emphasis supplied.) The agreement in question also contained
the following provision: "Per diem rates of pay of any employee shall
be arrived at by dividing the applicable weekly wage by the normal
number of days per week worked by that employee in the building
in question." This provision is obviously at odds with the statement
in the agreement that the weekly wage stipulated for a scheduled
workweek included both regular pay and overtime for hours worked
over 40. There is nothing in the record, however, to indicate that
the per diem provisions were actually applied. Petitioner explains
its presence in the agreement as an inadvertent hold-over from the
earlier Sloan Agreement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

substantially in excess of the non-overtime week. We
cannot ignore the fact, however, that the agreement on
its face fails to provide for the consistent application
of the formula rates in those situations where such rates
should be expected to control. These deviations take on
additional significance when it is observed that in every
situation, with the relatively unimportant exception of
that involving unexcused absences," the amount paid was
either precisely or substantially that which employees
would have been paid had the contract called for employment on a straight 46-hour week with payment of time
and one-half only for hours worked in excess of 46.
Further light is thrown upon the nature of the wage
agreement by a consideration of the plan in actual operation. During the period between April 21 and September
1, 1942, when the contract in question was the subject of
negotiation, it was understood that the old Sloan Agreement should remain in effect but that the terms of the
new contract should be given retroactive application to
April 20. The Sloan Agreement provided for a minimum
wage of $25 for a workweek of 47 hours with no provision
for overtime for hours worked in excess of 40. It is obvious, therefore, that between the above-mentioned dates
the employees were paid on a basis clearly repugnant to
the requirements of § 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. Petitioners urge, however, that by making the retroactive payments as required by the agreement, any illegality in the method of payment during the period of
negotiations was eliminated. But in attempting to
satisfy the retroactive liability, petitioners completely
ignored the formula rates and paid each of the respondents
$2.50 for each week worked during the period, representing the increase in the minimum weekly wage for the
scheduled workweek established by the new agreement,
10See note 5 supra.

MADISON AVE. CORP. v. ASSELTA.
199

Opinion of the Court.

without attempting further adjustment. Petitioners
admit that "Undoubtedly some employees who worked
no overtime in certain weeks were overpaid; other who
worked beyond the scheduled Workweek of 47 hours then
prevailing may not have been paid enough." It is apparent that the amount of wages paid the respondents
for work performed during the period of negotiations was
in no sense determined by application of hourly rates
derived from the formula.1
The parties have called our attention to much other
evidence which, it is asserted, reveals the practical construction given to the terms of the agreement in question.
We do not feel that it is necessary to review these matters
at length. It is sufficient to state that, after considering
the terms of the agreement and the operation of the plan
in actual practice, we have come to the conclusion that
the agreement in this case was one calling for a workweek
in excess of 40 hours without effective provision for overtime pay until the employees had completed the scheduled
workweek and that the "hourly rate" derived from the
use of the contract formula was not the "regular rate"
of pay within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. This is not a case like Walling v. Belo Corp., supra,
or Walling v. Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co., 331
U. S. 17 (1947). Unlike those cases, there was here no
provision for a guaranteed weekly wage with a stipulation
of an hourly rate which under the circumstances presented
11 A somewhat similar situation prevailed with respect to an increase of $1.40 in the weekly wage granted on October 10, 1943,
and made retroactive to April 21, 1943.

It appears that petitioners

made some effort to make adjustments consistent with the formula
in payment to employees who had worked hours in excess of the
scheduled workweek. It is conceded, however, that no such adjustments were made with respect to those who worked less than their
scheduled hours in weeks during the retroactive period, such employees
being paid the full weekly increase for each week employed regardless
of hours actually worked.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
331 U. S.

Syllabus.

could properly be regarded as the actual regular rate of
pay.
We hold for the reasons stated above that the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals properly determined that the wage agreement in question failed to satisfy the statutory requirements. Walling v. Helmerich &
Payne, Inc., supra; Walling v. Youngerman-Reynolds
Hardwood Co., supra; Walling v. HarnischfegerCorp., 325
U. S. 427 (1945).
Affirmed.
[Note: By an order of the Court announced on June 16,
1947, post, p. 795, the judgment in this case was modified
so as to provide that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is affirmed and the cause is remanded to the
District Court with authority in that Court to consider
any matters presented to it under the Portal-to-Portal
Act of 1947, approved May 14,1947.]

COMMISSIONER

NO. 674.

OF INTERNAL
MUNTER.

REVENUE

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.*

Argued April 10, 1947.-Decided May 5, 1947.

1. Under Internal Revenue Code §§ 22 (a), 115 (a), (b), upon a
reorganization of two corporations into a new corporation, accumulated earnings and profits of the predecessor corporations which
are undistributed in the reorganization are deemed to be acquired
by the successor corporation and upon distribution by it are taxable
as income, notwithstanding the participation of new investors in
the successor corporation. Pp. 215-216.
*Together with No. 675, Commissioner of Internal Revenue v.
Munter, also on certiorari to the same Court.

