100

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

the order rendered non-appealable because one appeal had
already been taken, any more than it would have been
had the first decree been reversed in toto and this order
entered after the reversal. Since the order denying petitioner's motion for a judgment of dismissal of respondents'
claim is, within the meaning of § 129, "final except for
the ordering of an accounting," it is appealable.
Reversed.
FLEMING, TEMPORARY CONTROLS ADMINISTRATOR, v. RHODES, SHERIFF, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 682.

Argued April 7,1947.-Decided April 28, 1947.

1. The Act of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat. 751, confers power upon
this Court to review, on direct appeal, a ruling against the constitutionality of an act of Congress which is made in the application
of a statute to a particular circumstance, even though the statute
is not challenged as a whole. Pp. 102-104.
2. Under § 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act, as amended
by the Price Control Extension Act of July 25, 1946, injunctions
to prevent the future eviction of tenants in defense areas may be
granted by a federal district court at the instance of the Price
Administrator notwithstanding the fact that, between the expiration of the Price Control Act on June 30, 1946, and the enactment
of the Price Control Extension Act on July 25, 1946, judgments
for restitution of the leased property had been obtained by the
landlords in state courts. Pp. 104-107.
3. Federal regulation of future action based upon rights previously
acquired by the person regulated is not prohibited by the Constitution, even though such rights were acquired by judgments.
P. 107.
4. In a suit by the Price Administrator under § 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act to prevent the eviction of tenants in a
defense area, § 265 of the Judicial Code does not bar an injunction
against state officials to prevent the execution of state judgments
of eviction. Pp. 107-108.
Reversed.

FLEMING v. RHODES.
100

Opinion of the Court.

In a suit brought by the Price Administrator under
§ 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act to prevent
execution of judgments of eviction rendered by state
courts against tenants in a defense area, a federal district
court denied a preliminary injunction, on the ground that
the provision of § 18 of the Price Control Extension Act
of July 25, 1946, making the Act effective retroactively on
June 30, 1946, is unconstitutional. On direct appeal, this
Court ordered substitution of the Temporary Controls
Administrator for the Price Administrator (329 U. S. 688)
and reversed the judgment, p. 108.
Samuel Mermin argued the cause for appellant. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, John R. Benney, William E. Remy, David London,
Irving M. Gruber and Albert J. Rosenthal.
No appearance for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal is from an interlocutory order of the District Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Texas denying preliminary injunctions. Appellant's
predecessor sued certain landlord appellees and the
Sheriff and a constable of Tarrant County, Texas, in that
United States District Court for an injunction to stop eviction of tenants under state judgments that were recovered
by the landlords in suits for restitution of leased property.'
The state suits were filed by the landlords without the
certificates required by the Rent Regulation for Housing
to maintain such actions. 8 F. R. 7322; 10 F. R. 11666;
11 F. R. 5824, 8106. The state judgments were entered
'Jurisdiction

of suits for such injunctions is conferred upon the

district courts of the United States by § 205 of the Emergency Price
Control Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 23, 58 Stat. 632, 59 Stat. 306, and the
Price Control Extension Act of July 25, 1946, 60 Stat. 664.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

after June 30, 1946, the termination date of the Emergency Price Control Act, and before July 25, 1946, the
date of the approval by the President of the Price Control
Extension Act. As there was no federal price control
statute during this period, these judgments will be treated
as valid when granted.
The decision of the District Court, denying the motion
as to the landlords and directing the entry of the order, was
based on the unconstitutionality, as applied to these state
judgments, of that portion of § 18 of the Price Control
Extension Act of July 25, 1946, that declared, "The provisions of this Act shall take effect as of June 30, 1946, . . ."
This provision the Court thought was unconstitutional
(1) because the words affected the state judgments retroactively by bringing them under the Extension Act3 and
(2) because the vested rights, created by the prior judgments in the landlords to obtain restitution of their leased
properties, could not be destroyed by subsequent legislation. Apparently it was felt that the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment forbade such regulation of the
incidents of judgments. The question is raised as to
whether the Act of August 24, 1937, 50 Stat. 751, confers
power upon this Court to review, on direct appeal, a ruling against the constitutionality of an act of Congress
when the ruling of unconstitutionality is made in the application of the statute to a particular circumstance, as in
this appeal, rather than upon the challenged statute as a
2 Price

Control Extension Act of July 25, 1946, supra.

8 As this opinion relies upon the validity under the price control

acts of the prohibition of future eviction of tenants in § 6 of the Rent
Regulation for Housing, 8 F. R. 7322; 10 F. R. 11666; 11 F. R. 5824,
8106, it is unnecessary to consider further whether the mere inclusion
of these past judgments within the reach of the price control legislation, by advancing the effective date of the act, is constitutional.
Compare Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, 146, and Untermyer v.
Anderson, 276 U. S. 440, 445, with United States v. Hudson, 299
U. S. 498.

FLEMING v. RHODES.
100

Opinion of the Court.

whole. A reading of the first three sections of the act
convinces us that Congress granted litigants in courts of
the United States a direct appeal to this Court from decisions against the constitutionality of any act of Congress
as applied in the pending litigation.
The first section only authorizes the intervention of the
United States in private litigation, "whenever the constitutionality of any Act of Congress affecting the public
interest is drawn in question . . . ." ' It has nothing to
do with appeals. The second section allows an appeal to
this Court from a final or interlocutory order only when
the United States is a party, through the preceding § 1 or
originally, and the decision is against the constitutionality
of the federal law. It provides for expedition in our determination of the appeal. Section three relates to the
allowance or refusal of injunctions staying acts of Congress in whole or in part on the ground of repugnancy to
the Constitution, and requires a three-judge court, expedition in determination and notice to the United States.
The specific provision for prompt review of judgments
granting or denying "in whole or in part" such an injunction is limited to applications for stays of acts of Congress
because of their unconstitutionality. Thus the constitutionality of federal acts comes to us by direct appeal,
under the Act of August 24, 1937, only when the United
States is a party to the litigation below or an injunction
is sought. This enables the United States to exercise
large discretion, by its determination as to whether or
not to intervene, as to what cases are reviewable directly
The last three words were construed in Dahnke-Walker Co. v.
Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 288, to allow appeals under Judicial Code
§ 237 to this Court from final judgments of state courts of last resort
upholding the validity of state statutes against a challenge to their
application to particular circumstances because of their repugnance to
federal law. This was a settled construction for the words. See
Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 124.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

in this Court.5 The Congress intended prompt review
of the constitutionality of federal acts.' Since § 1 allows
intervention when the constitutionality of an act is
"drawn in question" and § 2 allows appeal after intervention, it follows that there is an appeal from an
order that invalidates, as unconstitutional, a statute as
applied. To limit the generality of the language of § 2
of the Act of August 24, 1937, to cases that involved only
the constitutionality as a whole of the challenged statutes
might seriously impair prompt determinations of matters
of great public interest. Litigants may challenge the
constitutionality of a statute only in so far as it affects
them.7 We hold that jurisdiction of the appeal from the
challenged order is conferred upon this Court by 28
U. S. C. § 349a.
The Court was also of the view that § 265 of the Judicial
Code barred any injunction against the state officials.
The appellant sought injunctions against future
eviction of these tenants through writs of restitution
or other process by which eviction might be conr Garment Workers v. Donnelly Co., 304 U. S. 243, 249-50.
6 H. Rep. No. 212, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2:
"The importance to the Nation of prompt determination by the
court of last resort of disputed questions of the constitutionality of
acts of the Congress requires no comment."
S. Rep. No. 963, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 3-4:
"The United States is not excluded by the principle thus stated,
from drawing the judicial power to its proper assistance either as an
original party, or as an intervenor, when, in private litigation, decision
of the constitutional question may affect the public at large, may be in
respect of matters which by the Constitution are entrusted to the care
of the Nation, and concerning which the Nation owes a duty to all
the citizens of securing to them their common rights."
7Blackmer v. United States, 284 U. S. 421, 442; Virginian R. Co. v.
Federation,300 U. S. 515, 558; Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co., 301

U. S. 495, 513.

FLEMING v. RHODES.
100

Opinion of the Court.

summated. Sections 2 (d), 4 (a) and 205 (a) of the
Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended, and
Rent Regulation § 6 (a), set out below.8 Such an injunction is in accord with the administrative Interpretations of
8 Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 23, 58 Stat. 632,

59 Stat. 306:
Section 2 (d). "Whenever in the judgment of the Administrator
such action is necessary or proper in order to effectuate the purposes
of this Act, he may, . . . regulate or prohibit . . . renting or leasing
practices (including practices relating to recovery of the possession)
in connection with any defense-area housing accommodations, which
in his judgment are equivalent to or are likely to result in . . . rent
increases, . . . inconsistent with the purposes of this Act."
Section 4 (a). "It shall be unlawful, regardless of any contract,
agreement, lease, or other obligation heretofore or hereafter entered
into, for any person to . . . do or omit to do any act, in violation of
any regulation or order under section 2, . . . or to offer, solicit, attempt, or agree to do any of the foregoing."
Section 205 (a). "Whenever in the judgment of the Administrator
any person has engaged or is about to engage in any acts or practices
which constitute or will constitute a violation of any provision of section 4 of this Act, he may make application to the appropriate court
for an order enjoining such acts or practices, or for an order enforcing
compliance with such provision, and upon a showing by the Administrator that such person has engaged or is about to engage in any such
acts or practices a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining
order, or other order shall be granted without bond."
Rent Regulation for Housing, 8 F. R. 7322, 10 F. R. 11666; 11 F. R.
5824, 8106:
Section 6. "Removal of tenant-(a) Restrictions on removal of
tenant. So long as the tenant continues to pay the rent to which the
landlord is entitled, no tenant shall be removed from any housing accommodations, by action to evict or to recover possession, by exclusion
from possession, or otherwise, nor shall any person attempt such removal or exclusion from possession, notwithstanding that such tenant
has no lease or that his lease or other rental agreement has expired or
otherwise terminated, and regardless of any contract, lease, agreement
or obligation heretofore or hereafter entered into which provides for
entry of judgment upon the tenant's confession for breach of the covenants thereof or which otherwise provides contrary hereto, . . ."

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

the Rent Regulation.' The properties involved in this
litigation were defense-area housing accommodations.
There is no suggestion that the heretofore referred to sections of the price control acts and § 6 of the Rent Regulations for Housing do not authorize these legal proceedings.
The constitutionality of the price control acts, generally
considered, is unquestioned. Bowles v. Willingham, 321
U. S. 503. The sole inquiry for us, at this point, is whether
it was erroneous for the district court to refuse to allow the
temporary injunction, because to do so would invade the
constitutional right of the landlord appellees to retain
the fruits of their "vested rights" in the valid judgments.
As the appellant is undertaking to enjoin future eviction
of the tenants or lessees, our consideration is not affected
by the proviso of § 18 of the Extension Act, set out in the
margin." The retroactive provision of § 18, quoted above
9 Pike & Fischer, OPA Service, Rent, Interpretations of the Rent
Regulation for Housing, § 6-VI, issued July 25, 1946:
"Interpretation 6-VI. Evictions Pending On July 25, 1946.
"The Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended, on July 25,
1946, was extended by striking out 'June 30, 1946' and substituting
'June 30, 1947,' as the expiration date of the Act. Section 18 provides
that the provisions of the Act shall take effect as of June 30, 1946. In
this section a savings clause was inserted for the protection of persons
who had acted contrary to the regulation during the interim period
between June 30, 1946, and July 25, 1946. This savings clause provides that no act or transaction occurring between said dates shall be
deemed a violation. As a result any eviction which occurred during
the interim period was not a violation of the Act or regulation. By
reason of this the tenant who has been in fact evicted during this
interim period receives no protection. If, however, he is in possession
on July 25, 1946, he is entitled to the protection of the eviction provisions of the regulation and it is a violation of the regulation for the
landlord on or after that date to attempt to evict by -court process or
otherwise except in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of the
regulation."
10 "Provided further, That no act or transaction, or omission or failure to act, occurring subsequent to June 30, 1946, and prior to the date
of enactment of this Act shall be deemed to be a violation of the Emer-

FLEMING v. RHODES.
100

Opinion of the Court.

at note 2, is inapposite for the same reason. It is immaterial whether the state judgments were obtained before
or after the effective date of the Extension Act. The
effort of the appellant is to enjoin future proceedings for
eviction after the acquisition by the landlord appellees
through valid judgments of what the district court characterized as "vested rights." Federal regulation of future
action based upon rights previously acquired by the person
regulated is not prohibited by the Constitution. So long
as the Constitution authorizes the subsequently enacted
legislation, the fact that its provisions limit or interfere
with previously acquired rights does not condemn it.
Immunity from federal regulation is not gained through
forehanded contracts. Were it otherwise the paramount
powers of Congress could be nullified by "prophetic discernment." 11 The rights acquired by judgments have no
different standing." The protection of housing accommodations in defense-areas through the price control acts may
be accomplished by the appellant notwithstanding these
prior judgments. The preliminary injunctions should
have been granted.
Only a word need be said as to the contention that § 265
of the Judicial Code forbids an injunction against the execution of state judgments by state officers. 3 A contention
gency Price Control Act of 1942, as amended, or the Stabilization
Act of 1942, as amended, or of any regulation, order, price schedule,
or requirement under either of such Acts: . . ."
11Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S.374, 391; Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467; Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co. v. Schubert, 224 U. S. 603; Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U. S. 170; Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 294 U. S. 240, 303-11; Guaranty Trust Co. v.
Henwood, 307 U. S.247, 259.
12 Wright v. Union Central Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 502, 509; Paramino
Lumber Co. v. Marshall,309 U. S. 370.
'1 Judicial Code § 265:
"The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court of the
United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State, except in
cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating
to proceedings in bankruptcy."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

was made before this Court in similar cases last term that
§ 265 forbade a federal injunction to stay such proceedings
in any court of a state. The argument was not accepted.
We thought that § 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 created an exception to § 265.'" No specific mention was made in these opinions as to whether
state officers who were parties in the case could be enjoined.
However, we do not see any ground, under § 265 of the
Judicial Code, to differentiate as to stays against a sheriff
or a constable or stays against the parties to the litigation.
We think the District Court had power to stay the sheriff
and constable.

Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

In considering the scope of our appellate jurisdiction,
great weight should be given to the strong policy of the
Congress, ever since the Judiciary Act of 1891, to keep
the docket of this Court within manageable proportions
for the wise disposition of causes by the ultimate judicial
tribunal. That consideration applies also to the few Acts,
passed since the creation of the circuit courts of appeals,
which allow cases to come here directly from the district
court where issues of great public importance, such as the
constitutionality of legislation, are at stake.
In Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, this
Court gave an expansive content to review, as a matter
of right, of State court judgments where is drawn in question "the validity of a statute." Our jurisdiction was held
to cover review of a finding of unconstitutionality in the
application of a statute to a particular situation, though
the statute is otherwise left in full force and effect. While,
for the reasons set forth in the dissent of Mr. Justice
14Porter v. Lee, 328 U. S. 246; Porter v. Dicken, 328 U. S. 252;
Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503, 510.

FLEMING v. RHODES.
100

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

Brandeis, I have never been reconciled to the soundness of
that decision, I accept it. But I do not feel obliged to
extend its scope beyond its requirements.
There is an important difference between review of
State court decisions and decisions of the district courts.
The latter are subject to review as a matter of course by
the circuit courts of appeals. They are not dependent on
review by grace through certiorari,as would be comparable
State decisions except for the Dahnke-Walker doctrine.
I do not feel myself required by the Act of August 24,
1937, to hold that direct appeal lies to this Court whenever a district court finds unconstitutional an application
of a statute to the circumstances of a particular case. It is
one thing not to allow final determination of the fate of
a federal statute to be delayed until a decision of a district
court can go through a circuit court of appeals and then
reach this Court. It is quite another thing to bring here
directly from a district court every decision indicating
unconstitutionality in application, no matter how restricted its incidence. Of course this does not mean that
direct review of district court decisions by this Court
would be available only for cases that involve "the constitutionality as a whole" of a challenged statute. The
Act of 1937 refers explicitly to invalidation "in whole or
in part." Although this is made explicit in § 3 of the Act,
the scope of direct review here, on the score of unconstitutionality, ought not to be different under different
sections of this Act. A direct appeal is called for only
when a district court strikes down, in whole or in part,
that which Congress has unequivocally written. It is
unwarranted when all that is in issue is whether the allowable scope of what Congress has written excludes a particular situation.
The immediate case gives point to these general observations. The incidents of a judgment are not the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

in all the States. The effect of this Act upon judgments
in the different States may thus involve consideration of
the procedure of a particular State. These are hardly
questions of the kind which led to the authorization,
by the Act of August 24, 1937, of direct review where a
district court's decision "is against the constitutionality
of any Act of Congress." 50 Stat. 751, 752.
Nor should it be decisive of this Court's exceptional
jurisdiction on direct appeal from the district courts that
the Government is the litigant. Like other litigants the
Government at times attaches importance to a particular
case out of all proportion to the more comprehensive
factors that should control this Court's jurisdiction. We
cannot be blind to the fact that review here is sometimes
pressed in response to commendable administrative earnestness which fails, however, to take fully into account
the demands of this Court's business. Moreover, it
was not the interest of the Government as such which
moved Congress to grant direct appeals from the district
courts. By the Judiciary Act of 1925 Congress narrowly
confined direct review here of district court decisions
regardless of the character of the litigant, and the extension of such review by the Act of 1937 should be strictly
confined.
I would dismiss this appeal and remand the case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. See Oklahoma Gas & Electric
Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386, 392, and
Phillips v. United States, 312 U. S. 246, 254.

