OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL EQUIPMENT CORP. v.
HIRSCH ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 95.

Argued January 15, 1947.-Decided June 16, 1947.

1. Pursuant to the First and Second Renegotiation Acts, the Secretary
of War and the War Contracts Adjustment Board, respectively,
determined that appellant had realized excessive profits during two
years on subcontracts under which it had supplied parts to contractors manufacturing war equipment for the Army; and the Under
Secretary of War directed certain of appellant's customers to withhold and pay into the Treasury sums due appellant equal to such
excessive profits (less tax credits) for the second of the years in
question. After petitioning the Tax Court for redetermination and
while such proceedings were pending, appellant sued in a federal district court for a declaratory judgment that the Renegotiation Acts are unconstitutional and for an injunction against further
proceedings thereunder. Held:
(a) The suit is premature, since appellant had not exhausted its
administrative remedy before the Tax Court. Pp. 764-774.
(b) The district court had no jurisdiction in equity, since appellant had a complete remedy at law by actions against the contractors
to which it had supplied the parts. Pp. 774-781.
2. Mere suggestions of claim for relief raising serious constitutional
questions are not to be entertained upon dubious presentations or,
most certainly, when the presentation reasonably may be taken
as not intended to put them forward squarely and inescapably.
P. 763.
3. The doctrine of exhaustion of administrative remedies requires not
merely the initiation of prescribed administrative procedures; it
requires pursuing them to their appropriate conclusion and awaiting
their final outcome before seeking judicial intervention. P. 767.
4. Where Congress has clearly commanded that administrative judgment be taken initially or exclusively, the courts have no lawful
function to anticipate the administrative decision with their own,
whether or not when it has been rendered they may intervene
either in presumed accordance with Congress' will or because, for
constitutional reasons, its will to exclude them has been exerted
in an invalid manner. P. 767.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

753

Statement of the Case.

5. By providing in the Renegotiation Acts for administrative determinations of excessive profits by the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board and for redeterminations de novo by the Tax Court,
Congress intended to secure uniformity of administrative policy
and disposition, expertness of judgment, and finality of determination, at least of those things which Congress intended to and could
commit to such agencies for final decision. Pp. 767-768.
6. Congress intended the Tax Court's functions with respect to redetermination of excessive profits under war contracts not only
to be put in motion but to be fully performed, before judicial
intervention at the instance of one in appellant's position, even
though constitutional questions are raised. P. 771.
7. Where Congress clearly intended to require administrative determination, either to the exclusion of judicial action or in advance
of it, a strong showing is required, both of inadequacy of the prescribed procedure and of impending harm, to permit short-circuiting
the administrative process-especially in the case of wartime legislation resting, at least in part, on war powers. Pp. 773-774.
8. Appellant subcontractor has an adequate remedy at law by suits
upon its contracts against its customers; since such suits are not
forbidden expressly or impliedly by the Renegotiation Acts, they
are not made dependent upon completion of the Tax Court proceedings, and there appears to be no reason why every question
of constitutionality raised in this suit could not be presented and
determined in such a suit. Pp. 775-777.
9. Appellant's allegations that it would suffer irreparable injury as
a result of the withholding of the funds due from its customers are
insufficient to sustain the intervention of a court of equity, particularly to avoid or anticipate the congressionally authorized proceeding. Pp. 777-778.
10. Nor, on the facts of this case, is the showing made concerning
multiplicity of suits sufficient to justify intervention of a court of
equity or the substitution of its extraordinary relief for what appears to be a full, adequate and completely available remedy at
law. Pp. 778-781.
62 F. Supp. 520, affirmed.

While proceedings were pending in the Tax Court for
redetermination of excessive profits determined by the
Secretary of War and the War Contracts Price Adjust-

ment Board to have been realized by a subcontractor on
production of war equipment, the subcontractor sued in

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

a Federal District Court for a declaratory judgment that
the Renegotiation Acts are unconstitutional and for
an injunction against further proceedings thereunder.
The District Court dismissed the suit. 62 F. Supp. 520.
On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 781.
Arthur R. Hall argued the cause for appellant. With
him on the brief were Earl B. Wilkinson, Francis W. Hill,
Jr.and J. Alfred Moran.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, Paul A. Sweeney
and Ray B. Houston.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is the fourth in a series seeking here a determination of the invalidity, on constitutional grounds, of
the First and Second Renegotiation Acts1 and allied
legislation.
In Coffman v. Breeze Corporations,323 U. S. 316, and
in Alma Motor Co. v. Timken-Detroit Axle Co., 329 U. S.
129, the Royalty Adjustment Act ' was attacked. The
Alma Motor case was remanded to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for a determination of the Act's applicability.
The suit in the Coffman case was by a patent owner to
restrain his licensees from paying accrued royalties to the
Government pursuant to the Act's provisions. We held
The First Renegotiation Act was contained in § 403 of the Sixth
Supplemental National Defense Appropriation Act, 56 Stat. 226, as

amended 56 Stat. 798, 982, 57 Stat. 347, 57 Stat. 564. The Second
Renegotiation Act appears in the 1943 Revenue Act. 58 Stat. 21, 78,
as amended 59 Stat. 294.
2 Of October 31, 1942, 56 Stat. 1013, 35 U. S. C. (Supp. V, 1946)
§§ 89-96.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

755

Opinion of the Court.

that the complaint had been rightly dismissed for want
of equity jurisdiction, since the plaintiff had an adequate
remedy at law by suit against its licensees, and also for
want of a justiciable case or controversy.
In Mine Safety Co. v. Forrestal, 326 U. S. 371, a
government contractor challenged the Renegotiation
Acts.3 The complaint sought to enjoin the Secretary
of the Navy from taking action "which would stop
payment by the government of money lawfully in the
United States Treasury to satisfy the government's and
not the Secretary's debt to the appellant." 326 U. S. at
374. Accordingly we held that the Government was an
indispensable party. Since it neither had been joined in
the suit nor had consented to be sued in such a proceeding,
it followed that the complaint had been properly
dismissed.
In one other case, Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp.,
327 U. S. 540, constitutionality was not involved, but coverage of the Renegotiation Acts was put in issue. The
suit was brought in a District Court for a declaratory judgment and to restrain further renegotiation proceedings
affecting the specified contracts. The contractor had not
sought a decision on coverage from the Tax Court. We
held that the Tax Court has power to decide such questions
in the proceedings authorized by § 403 (e) (1) of the Second Renegotiation Act. Hence, under the authority of
Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41, the
complaint in the Waterman case also was held rightly to
have been dismissed, in this instance for the plaintiff's
failure to exhaust its administrative remedy.
Now the Aircraft & Diesel Equipment Corporation
seeks a declaratory judgment that the First and Second
Renegotiation Acts are unconstitutional on various
grounds. Injunctive relief also is asked. And, in addi3 See note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

tion to the constitutional questions, determination is
sought of issues of coverage and other matters.
The defendants, appellees here, consist of the members
of the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board, the Secretary of War, and the Under Secretary of War.' Pursuant to the statutory requirement, 50 Stat. 751, 752, 28
U. S. C. § 380 (a), a district court of three judges was
especially convened. After hearing, the complaint was
dismissed.' One ground for this action was that the suit
is premature, since proceedings were pending and undetermined in the Tax Court, pursuant to appellant's applications, for redetermination of its allegedly excessive profits for 1942 and 1943. The court also held that it was
without jurisdiction in equity, since in its view adequate
remedy at law was available to Aircraft. Probable jurisdiction of the appeal was duly noted here.7
We think the District Court correctly dismissed the
complaint, and for the reasons stated as grounding its
action. The issues expansively include almost all comprehended in the causes previously determined here. But the
case reaches this Court in a posture differing in some sub4 The War Contracts Price Adjustment Board is created by § 403
(d) (1) of the Second Renegotiation Act, 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. V,
1946) § 1191 (d) (1). The present appellees were substituted by an
order of the District Court as successors in office of the original
defendants.
62 F. Supp. 520.
6 See note 9.
The Tax Court proceedings remain pending and
undetermined at the (late of this decision.
7 On appellant's application the District Court enjoined the defendants, pending determination of the appeal, from taking further action
to enforce the statutes, particularly by notifying or requiring appellant's customers to pay into the Treasury of the United States moneys
alleged to be due Aircraft under contract provisions, but claimed by
appellees to be payable to the Government as excessive profits pursuant to the Acts' terms. Cf. notes 10, 13 infra.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

757

Opinion of the Court.

stantial respects from that characterizing any of those
proceedings. Hence it becomes necessary to set forth
with some particularity the facts and controlling issues.
I.
Appellant is in the business of manufacturing diesel fuel
injection equipment and precision parts, and aircraft precision parts. Its manufacturing activities, insofar as
material,8 were carried on under subcontracts with government contractors. The contractor in turn furnished
the completed aircraft or engines to the United States.
Pursuant to the First Renegotiation Act, the Secretary
of War, acting through his delegate the Under Secretary
of War, determined on October 27, 1943, that during the
fiscal year ended November 30, 1942, appellant had realized excessive profits (less tax credits) amounting to
$204,000. On April 29, 1944, the Under Secretary directed appellant's customers to withhold this sum from
appellant. Thereafter it filed a petition with the Tax
Court' for a redetermination of the alleged excessive
S The amended complaint alleges that appellant supplied materials

to the Department of the Navy under one contract made directly
between it and the Government. But it is also alleged that appellant
has been paid in full for these supplies. Apparently, therefore, the
contract and the relation which it created between appellant and
the Government have no bearing upon the issues in this cause.
9 The First Renegotiation Act did not provide for redetermination
by the Tax Court as originally enacted; nor did it specifically provide
for review, by any body, of the determination of excessive profits.
See Steadman, A Further Legal Inquiry Into Renegotiation: I (1944)
43 Mich. L. Rev. 1, 12. But Tax Court redetermination was afforded
by the Second Renegotiation Act and was made retroactive. 50
U. S. C. App. (Supp. V, 1946) § 1191 (e) (2) provides that it is available to "Any contractor or subcontractor . . . aggrieved by a determination of the Secretary made prior to the date of enactment of
the Revenue Act of 1943, with respect to a fiscal year ending before
July 1, 1943, as to the existence of excess profits . .. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

profits. Nevertheless, on July 19, 1944, the Under Secretary further directed appellant's customers to pay the
$204,000 into the Treasury of the United States, and this
direction was obeyed. 10
Following the fiscal year ended November 30, 1943,
renegotiation proceedings were instituted under the Second Renegotiation Act. On January 11, 1945, the Under
Secretary of War, as delegate of the War Contracts Price
Adjustment Board, entered an order determining that appellant had realized excessive profits of $1,265,000.
Deduction of tax credits reduced this amount to approximately $270,000. Appellant again filed a petition for
redetermination with the Tax Court.1 Then followed
this suit.
The amended complaint is too lengthy for detailed summarization in this opinion. Apart from allegations going
to constitutionality and coverage, including asserted defects in the renegotiation procedures followed,'12 the
10 The

original Act, as amended, provided: "Upon renegotiation,

the Secretary is authorized and directed to eliminate any excessive
profits under such contract or subcontract ... (iii) by directing
a contractor to withhold for the account of the United States, from
amounts otherwise due to the subcontractor, any amount of such
excessive profits under the subcontract .... ." 56 Stat. at 983. See
also note 13.
11An earlier petition was dismissed on motion of the United States
because it was filed during the time when the War Contracts Price
Adjustment Board might have initiated a review. Cf. Macauley v.
Waterman S. S. Corp., 327 U. S. 540. After dismissal of the earlier
petition and before filing of the later one, appellant had sought redetermination, pursuant to § 403 (e) (1) of the Second Renegotiation
Act, by the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board. The Board
denied review and adopted the Under Secretary's redetermination as
its own.
12 For example, in addition to contentions that the Renegotiation
Acts as a matter of substantive law violate Article I, § 1, of the Constitution in that they constitute unlawful delegations of legislative
power as well as contravene the due process and just compensation

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

759

Opinion of the Court.

complaint sought to establish jurisdiction in the District
Court, equitable in character, by showing the inadequacy
of all available legal or other remedies. These included
the pending Tax Court proceedings, possible suit in the
Court of Claims following completion of the Tax Court's
determination, and actions at law against appellant's customers, contractors with the Government, to recover the
amounts said to be due under their various contracts.
In particular it was alleged that, notwithstanding the
pendency of the Tax Court proceedings, the Board and the
Secretary, or his delegates, were taking steps to prevent
Aircraft's customers from paying over to it moneys owing
on contracts, aggregating $270,000, and claimed to be due
the Government as excessive profits. The complaint
alleged further that the Board and the Secretary were
threatening to direct Aircraft's customers to pay these
sums into the Treasury "3and that, unless they were reprovisions of the Fifth Amendment, the jury trial provision of the
Seventh Amendment, and the Tenth Amendment, it is said that the
order under the Second Renegotiation Act was based in part at least
on information said to have been obtained from "governmental and
other reliable sources" which the appellant has had no opportunity
to examine or rebut.
13 Section 403 (c) (2) of the Second Renegotiation Act, 50 U. S. C.
App. (Supp. V, 1946) § 1191 (c) (2), provides: "Upon the making of
an agreement, or the entry of an order, under paragraph (1) by the
Board, or the entry of an order under subsection (e) by The Tax Court
of the United States, determining excessive profits, the Board shall
forthwith authorize and direct the Secretaries or any of them to eliminate such excessive profits (A) by reductions in the amounts otherwise payable to the contractor under contracts with the Departments,
or by other revision of their terms; or (B) by withholding from
amounts otherwise due to the contractor any amount of such excessive
profits; or (C) by directing a contractor to withhold for the account
of the United States, from amounts otherwise due to a subcontractor
any amount of such excessive profits of such subcontractor; or (D) by
recovery from the contractor, through repayment, credit, or suit
any amount of such excessive profits actually paid to him; or (E) by
any combination of these methods, as is deemed desirable. . ....

760

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

strained, such payment would be made, to appellant's
irreparable injury. 4 No direct relief was asked, by way
of judgment or decree, for refund of the $204,000
collected by the Government from appellant's customers,
pursuant to the First Renegotiation Act, as excessive
profits realized in 1942. It was suggested, however, that
if that Act should be found invalid and the Second Act
sustained," the Government should be permitted to collect
only the difference between $270,000, the amount determined to be excessive profits for 1943, and the $204,000
collected for 1942. The suggestion, of course, if formally
14

The allegations included the following: "Notwithstanding the

fact that the plaintiff has filed its petition for redetermination in
The Tax Court of the United States whereby it seeks an orderly
determination of the amount, if any, it may owe to the United States
of America, as excessive profits for its fiscal year ending November 30,
1943, the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board, purporting to act
under the provisions of Section 403 (c) (2) of the Renegotiation
Act, purposes to direct the defendant Henry L. Stimson, Secretary
of War, or his delegates, to direct contractors, customers of the
plaintiff, to withhold moneys due to the plaintiff by such contractors
for the account of the United States, in amounts determined by it,
the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board, to be due as excessive
profits, and Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of War, or his delegates
purposes to follow such directions of the War Contracts Price Adjustment Board and further to direct such contractors to pay such sums
of money into the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with
the procedure adopted by Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of War, acting
through his delegate, Robert P. Patterson, in respect of excessive profits
found by him to be due for the fiscal year of the plaintiff ending
November 30, 1942, as heretofore, recited in this complaint, before
The Tax Court of the United States of America shall have made or
shall have had opportunity to make any determination of this plaintiff's petition for a redetermination of its excessive profits, if any, for
its fiscal year ending 1943." See also note 42.
15The omission from the First Act of various provisions contained
in the Second, see, e. g., note 9 supra, is alleged to afford basis for
invalidating the former even though the latter may be held constitutional.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

761

Opinion of the Court.

made, would be substantially a claim against the Government by way of setoff of the latter amount. Cf. Mine
Safety Co. v. Forrestal,supra.
The Government has contested each of appellant's
claims. But its primary contentions have been aimed at
Aircraft's jurisdictional showing. It argues that the suit
in substance and legal effect is one against the United
States, to which there has been no governmental consent,
cf. Mine Safety Co. v. Forrestal, supra; that the suit is
premature, because the Tax Court proceedings have not
been completed and until this has been done Aircraft
will not have exhausted its administrative remedy, cf.
Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp., supra; that the Tax
Court has been given exclusive jurisdiction in renegotiation matters; and that, in any event, there is no jurisdiction of an equitable character in the District Court, to
afford the relief appellant seeks, since it has an adequate
remedy at law by suit upon its contracts to recover any
amounts due from its customers, in which all questions
of constitutionality may be determined. Cf. Coffman v.
Breeze Corporations,supra.
In the latter connection appellee Hirsch, as chairman
of the Board, has filed an affidavit admitting that he and
the other appellees, unless restrained, will take steps, as
appellant alleges, to prevent payment of the $270,000 by
its customers to it, and also to secure payment of that sum
into the Treasury. The affidavit sets forth, however, that
direction for payment will not be required or made as to
more than two or three of appellant's customers and, in the
event this does not result in payment of the full amount,
the Government will proceed to collect whatever may
remain by suit against appellant.
Aircraft, on the other hand, both in the amended complaint and by the supporting affidavit of its president,
alleged that no such sum as $270,000 was owing to it from,
or could be collected by direction to, any two or three of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

its customers. Rather it was set forth that collection of
any such amount could be made only by direction to some
sixteen or more customers. And on the same basis it is
asserted that Aircraft's remedy by suit against its customers would require institution of numerous actions in
different jurisdictions, resulting in expense and delay, as
well as loss of good will and incurring the continued risk
of the customers' solvency." Accordingly Aircraft claims
that jurisdiction in equity is conferred upon the District
Court both by reason of the multiplicity of suits involved
in asserting the legal remedy by actions against its customers and because of the injurious consequences which
would follow from pursuing that course.
II.
We do not find it necessary to undertake determining
the threshold question whether the suit is one against the
United States. Were the issue squarely presented as a
formal claim for refund or setoff concerning the $204,000
collected by the Government for 1942, the case in that
aspect would be very close to Mine Safety Co. v. Forrestal,
supra."
We do not tarry, however, to consider further this feature of the case, since the absence of formal and specific
claim in the nature of setoff or otherwise indicates, we
16See note 42 infra.
17 Although asserted
by way of equitable setoff, the effect of
allowing such a claim would be, as we said in the Mine Safety case,
to prevent the Secretary from taking certain action which, though
it would not "stop payment by the government of money lawfully
in the United States Treasury to satisfy the government's and not
the Secretary's debt to the appellant," nevertheless would amount to
"an indirect effort to collect a debt allegedly owed by the government
in a proceeding to which the government has not consented," 326
U. S. 374, 375, and to which, as in that case, it has not been made
formally a party.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

763

Opinion of the Court.

think, a strategic decision to avoid the difficulties which
would follow upon its definite and unequivocal assertion,
on the score of the nature of the suit as being one in fact
and function against the Government. Something more
than a mere suggestion of claim for relief is required to
bring into play judicial power of affording remedy, especially when it appears there may be good reason deliberately accepted for going no farther. This is reinforced
when the suggestion, if acted on, would involve the Court
in decision of serious constitutional questions. They are
not to be entertained upon dubious presentations or, most
certainly, when the presentation reasonably may be taken
as not intended to put them forward squarely and inescapably. Cf. Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S.
549; Alma Motor Co. v. Timken-Detroit Axle Co., 329
U. S. 129. Accordingly we put to one side the lengthy
allegations concerning the 1942 determination, and confine
our consideration to the issues relating to the redetermination made for the fiscal year of 1943.
These also, the Government urges, substantially are
effective to make the suit one against the Government, to
which it has not consented. And for this view, likewise,
it relies upon the Mine Safety decision, as well as others.18
Appellant undertakes to distinguish the cases upon the
basis that in the Mine Safety case the official action sought
to be enjoined was conduct effective to stop the payment
of funds out of the Treasury, whereas here the analogous
conduct affects no funds in the Government's actual possession but seeks only to touch moneys held by third
persons for appellant's or the Government's account. The
difference, it is urged, is between action affecting only the
withholding of government moneys and action effective
to bring about collection from third persons of moneys
claimed to be due to the Government.
18 Especially Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627; Belknap v. Schild,

161 U. S. 10; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443.
755552 0-48-52

OCTOBER TERM; 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

That difference indeed may be substantial. But we
do not decide whether it is sufficient to enable the appellant to avoid the difficulty presented of foreclosing the
Government's claim by a suit brought only against its
officials, essentially as trespassers,19 without joining the
Government itself. In other words, we do not determine
whether the suit is, in legal effect, one against the Government, since in our opinion the other grounds going to the
District Court's jurisdiction are adequate to sustain its
dismissal of the cause.
Ordinarily of course issues relating to exhaustion of
administrative remedies, as a condition precedent to securing judicial relief, and to the existence of jurisdiction
in equity are either separate or separable matters, to
be treated as entirely or substantially distinct. The one
generally speaking is simply a condition to be performed
prior to invoking an exercise of jurisdiction by the courts.
The other goes to the existence of judicial power in the
basic jurisdictional sense. In this case, however, the exhaustion problem and that of equity jurisdiction are
closely, indeed inseparably, related. And both are colored by the relevant specific provisions of the Renegotiation Acts, more particularly the Second, since it alone
provides for Tax Court redetermination."
19

Appellant's claim is that ordering its customers not only to with-

hold funds clue to it under the contracts but also to pay them into
the Treasury would be, in effect, a "trespass upon its property"
within the rule of United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; cf. Land v.
Dollar,330 U. S. 731, and that execution of such orders would deprive
it of vested property rights, contrary to various constitutional provisions. Since a decision of the constitutional issues would determine
the Government's right to the funds, in any event, the case, like Land
v. Dollar, supra, would seem to be one "where the question of jurisdiction [as involving the Government's immunity to suit] is dependent

on decision of the merits."

330 U. S. at 735.

. The provision, however, applies to determinations made prior
to the Act's effective date. See note 9 supra.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

765

Opinion of the Court.

In Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp., supra, we were
called upon to consider the relation between the Tax
Court proceedings, as provided by § 403 (e) (1), and judicial proceedings instituted in the district or other courts
of the United States in regard to renegotiation matters.
Section 403 (e) (1) authorizes "any contractor or subcontractor aggrieved by an order of the Board determining
the amount of excessive profits received or accrued by"
him, to file a petition for redetermination with the Tax
Court within ninety days after notice of the order is
mailed. 21 The section then provides:
"Upon such filing such court shall have exclusive
jurisdiction, by order, to finally determine the
amount, if any, of such excessive profits received or
accrued by the contractor or subcontractor, and such
determination shall not be reviewed or redetermined
by any court or agency."
The section expressly states that the proceeding "shall
not be treated as a proceeding to review the determination
of the Board,22 but shall be treated as a proceeding de
novo." And the Tax Court is given the same powers
and duties, "insofar as applicable," respecting "the contractor, the subcontractor, the Board and the Secretary,
and in respect of the attendance of witnesses and the
production of papers," together with other procedural
matters, as the court has under specified sections of the
Otherwise the Board's order becomes final. § 403 (c) (1). The
provision reads: "In the absence of the filing of a petition with The
Tax Court of the United States under the provisions of and within
the time limit prescribed in subsection (e) (1), such order shall
be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review or redetermination by any court or other agency."
Similarly, a limitation of one year is placed upon "all liabilities
of the contractor or subcontractor for excessive profits received or
accrued" during each fiscal year. See § 403 (c) (3).
22 See note 11 supra.
21

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Internal Revenue Code in redetermining a deficiency in
taxes. Moreover, § 403 (e) (1) commands: "The filing of
a petition under this subsection shall not operate to stay
the execution of the order of the Board under subsection

(c) (2)."
In the Waterman case, taking account of these provisions, we said: "The legislative history of the Renegotiation Act, moreover, shows that Congress intended the
Tax Court to have exclusive jurisdiction to decide questions of fact and law, which latter include the issue raised
here of whether the contracts in question are subject to
the Act." 327 U. S. at 544. "To grant the injunction
sought," the opinion continued, "the District Court would
have to decide this issue in the first instance. Whether
it ever can do so or not, it cannot now decide questions
of coverage when the administrative agencies 24authorized
to do so have not yet made their determination. Here
just as in the Myers case, the administrative process, far
from being exhausted, had hardly begun. The District
Court consequently was correct in holding that it lacked
jurisdiction to act." Ibid., 544-545.
The Waterman case differed from this one in three
respects. There the appellant had "hardly begun" the
administrative process, while here Aircraft has done all
that it can do. The Waterman Corporation had contracted directly with a government agency, the Maritime
Commission. Here the appellant is a subcontractor, a
difference of some importance in the matter of jurisdiction
in equity later to be noted. The Waterman case, as we
23

Citing, at 90 Cong. Rec. 1355, the statement of a sponsor in

the House that the Tax Court could decide "all questions of fact
and law . . . ." See also notes 30, 35 infra.
24 The Waterman S. S. Corporation not only had failed to file a
petition with the Tax Court but also had refused to attend renegotiation conferences with the Board or to supply information sought
by it.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

767

Opinion of the Court.

have said, raised only questions of coverage, not issues
of constitutionality. Here both types of question are presented. On the other hand, the cases are substantially
identical in the nature of the relief sought. Each complaint asked for a declaratory judgment upon the legal
issues and for injunctive relief restraining further action
looking toward application of the Act's provisions.
We do not think the differences mentioned are sufficient
to distinguish the cases for purposes of applying the exhaustion rule. Certainly no such effect can be derived
from the fact that in the Waterman case the plaintiff had
not begun the administrative process, while here Aircraft
has gone as far as it can. The doctrine, wherever applicable, does not require merely the initiation of prescribed
administrative procedures. It is one of exhausting them,
that is, of pursuing them to their appropriate conclusion
and, correlatively, of awaiting their final outcome before
seeking judicial intervention.
The very purpose of providing either an exclusive or an
initial and preliminary administrative determination is
to secure the administrative judgment either, in the one
case, in substitution for judicial decision or, in the other,
as foundation for or perchance to make unnecessary later
judicial proceedings. Where Congress has clearly commanded that administrative judgment be taken initially or
exclusively, the courts have no lawful function to anticipate the administrative decision with their own, whether
or not when it has been rendered they may intervene either
in presumed accordance with Congress' will or because,
for constitutional reasons, its will to exclude them has
been exerted in an invalid manner. To do this not only
would contravene the will of Congress as a matter of restricting or deferring judicial action. It would nullify the
congressional objects in providing the administrative determination. In this case these include securing uniform-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

ity of administrative policy and disposition," expertness
of judgment, and finality in determination, at least of
those things which Congress intended to and could commit to such agencies for final decision.
There can be no doubt whatever, iii view of the legislative history, that Congress had each of these ends in view
when it provided for the Tax Court proceedings, as well as
for action by the Board prior to that stage. Indeed the
Board was created in large part to bring under a single
aegis the last stage of informal renegotiation before the
Tax Court action, in order thus to secure as nearly as
possible uniform policy and administration of renegotiation problems." This policy was followed and reinforced
in the provision for Tax Court redetermination. And that
procedure was chosen deliberately in preference to judicial
review in the Court of Claims or elsewhere, primarily
because of the Tax Court's 7 expertness in fiscal matters
analogous to those arising in connection with renegotia25

See note 26 infra.
See S9 Cong. Rec. 9928-9929.

Previously the governmental departments concerned with renegotiation had set up a central board
to effect a "more uniform policy in the determination of excessive
profits," H. Rep. 871, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 75, but there was dissatisfaction with the board thus voluntarily established, see 89 Cong. Rec.
9934, and "insistence in Congress that coordination between the
departments having renegotiating authority under the prior act be not
a matter of voluntary cooperation but one of statutory necessity."
Steadman, A Further Legal Inquiry Into Renegotiation: I (1944) 43
Mich. L. Rev. 1, 6.
27 See 53 Stat. 158, as amended by 56 Stat. 957, 26 U. S. C. (Supp. V,
1946) § 1100: "The Board of Tax Appeals (hereinafter referred to as
the 'Board') shall be continued as an independent agency in the Executive Branch of the Government. The Board shall be known as The
Tax Court of the United States and the members thereof shall be
known as the presiding judge and the judges of The Tax Court of the
United States."
26

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

769

Opinion of the Court.

tion problems,28 as well as its essentially judicial procedures and experience.29
It is equally clear that Congress intended to endow the
Tax Court's decisions with a very large degree of finality,
as appears from the very terms of § 403 (e) (1), from the
whole structure of the Act, and from the legislative history.0
The express command of § 403 (e) (1) is not simply that the Tax Court shall have "exclusive jurisdiction,

by order, to finally determine" the amount of excessive
profits, if any. It is also that the determination "shall not
be reviewed or redetermined by any court or agency."
This is buttressed by the prohibition that filing the petition
shall not operate to stay execution of the Board's order

under § 403 (c) (2).21 And not irrelevant to the statute's
general policy of finality are the provisions making the
Board's determinations final, if the petition for Tax Court

redetermination is not filed in the specified time, and those
of the Secretary or his delegates final if similar action is not
taken to secure redetermination by the Board. § 403

(c) (1).
2

8 See H. Rep. 871, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 77; Steadman, A Further
Legal Inquiry Into Renegotiation: 11 (1944) 43 Mich. L. Rev. 235,
270; cf. S. Rep. 627, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 109; H. Rep. 1079, 78th
Cong., 2d Sess., 83.
29 Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489, 498; cf. note 27.
30 "That court will have exclusive jurisdiction, by an order, to make
a final determination as to whether excessive profits have been received or accrued, or whether a fair price has been determined, and
The Tax Court's determination may not be reviewed or redetermined
by any other court or agency." H. Rep. 871, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 77.
See also 89 Cong. Rec. 9930: "The committee has provided that any
contractor aggrieved by a determination of excessive profits under the
old law, whether he was cooperative and signed a closing agreement
or not, may have a review of that determination in the Tax Court of
the United States and in the review have all issues, constitutional and
otherwise, decided by the court."
31 See note 13 supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

True, the statute expressly confers rights to follow
through the various stages of the procedure to the end of
the Tax Court phase. Nevertheless its entire structure indicates the congressional purpose to have matters of renegotiation promptly and expeditiously settled; and to
accomplish this as far as possible both by informal negotiations and by introducing the compulsion of finality at
every stage unless each succeeding one is taken as
commanded.
At the height of the war Congress recognized, as did the
procuring agencies,32 that speed in procurement, and consequently in production of war materials, outweighed all
other considerations normally applicable. And while renegotiation was a product of that necessity rather than a
cause, the problems it raised were time consuming and
closely related to pricing difficulties. 3 Often they worked
to hinder and delay the process of procurement. Congress
therefore sought, so far as possible, to relieve the interrelated processes from the tedious burden of litigation.
It did this by writing the policy of finality into the Act's
provisions at each successive procedural stage, although
The record contains an affidavit made by Robert P. Patterson
when Under Secretary of War which reads in part: "Wartime procurement for the military establishment differs radically from procurement in times of peace. Speed in production at once becomes
all-important. ..."
"... the war procuring agencies cannot use normal methods of
procurement. The pressing need for speed requires the abandonment
of drawn-out negotiation and the careful surveys of all relevant factors
which sound purchasing would otherwise require. Competition necessarily wanes and no longer offers an adequate guide to the prices
which should be paid. Above all, the forecasting of costs of production becomes, in large measure, a matter of informed guessing rather
than of real cost analysis."
33The Second Renegotiation Act separated the repricing authority
from renegotiation. See 58 Stat. 92, 50 U. S. C. App. (Supp. V, 1946)
§ 1192. See also S. Rep. 627, 78th Cong., 1st Sess., 37-38.
32

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

771

Opinion of the Court.

saving the right of resort eventually to the Tax Court
to those acting promptly in the prescribed way.
We do not express any opinion, indeed we explicitly reserve decision, upon the question of the finality of Tax
Court decisions in these matters. But we cannot infer
from a statute so conditioned in background, purpose,
terms and compulsion derived from the inevitable circumstances of its application that Congress intended to
allow skirting the procedures devised altogether or partially, more particularly in any case where following them
could result in no greater loss than the delay and inconvenience which would flow from inability to seek some
other remedy not dependent upon their completion.
We are not forced in this case, however, to decide
whether Congress intended to give the Tax Court the last
word upon all questions of fact and law, or whether it
could do so if that were surely its purpose. Nor need we
become involved in an attempt to decide what particular
questions it might have left, or did leave, for that body's
final and conclusive disposition. For it seems obvious, in
view of the Act's terms, history, objects and the policies
incorporated, that Congress clearly and at the very least
intended the Tax Court's functions not only to be put
in motion but to be fully performed, before judicial intervention should take place at the instance of one in appellant's position.
This indeed was the ruling of the Waterman case. And
we do not think the effect of that ruling is exhausted
simply because constitutional questions were not raised
there, but have been put forward in this cause. Nor is it
overcome, in our judgment, by the showing which has been
made on this record of irreparable injury and of the need
as well as the power of equity to forestall the complete
operation of the congressionally prescribed procedure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

On the contrary, whatever may be true of other situations, 34 in this case the very fact that constitutional issues
are put forward constitutes a strong reason for not allowing this suit either to anticipate or to take the place of
the Tax Court's final performance of its function. When
that has been done, it is possible that nothing will be left
of appellant's claim, asserted both in that proceeding and
in this cause, concerning which it will have basis for
complaint.
The Tax Court may decide entirely in appellant's favor.
Indeed, if it can sustain there the claims and issues it offers to support here, that possibility is not an unlikely one.
For, apart from the questions of constitutionality and of
the Tax Court's power to decide them finally or otherwise," appellant has put forward, in both proceedings,36
claims of exemption and noncoverage relating to contracts
involving much larger amounts than the aggregate sums
affected by renegotiation, after deduction of tax credits."
And if those claims are well founded, as to which of course
we express no opinion, the Tax Court's determination
See note 38 infra.
See notes 23, 30 supra; cf. Helvering v. Independent Life Ins. Co.,
292 U. S. 371, reversing 67 F. 2d 470, affirming 17 B. T. A. 757; Stein
Bros. Mf. Co. v. Secretary of War, 7 T. C. 863.
16 A copy of the petition for redetermination filed in the Tax Court
by appellant has been attached as an exhibit to the complaint.
37 Appellant in its complaint alleged, for example, that although for
the fiscal year ending November 30, 1943, its total sales amounting to
$3,548,845.50 were renegotiated, "only $2,207,574.95, in any event,
were subject to renegotiation; that $1,312,250.07 of its total sales
were of 'Standard Commercial Articles' as defined in the Renegotiation
Act; were articles sold under competitive conditions affecting the sale
thereof in a manner which reasonably protected the Government
against excessive prices, and, as such, were not subject to renegotiation; that $29,020.48 of its total sales were not sold for the ultimate
use of the United States of America or any department, agency or
instrumentality thereof, but were made and sold for civilian use, and,
as such, were not subject to renegotiation."
14
35

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

773

Opinion of the Court.

of these matters of coverage, which we held in the Waterman case are initially at least for its disposition, well might
render consideration of the constitutional questions by
it unnecessary and this cause moot.
Certainly that possible outcome should not be anticipated, either here or by the District Court, through a decision in this case on the constitutional issues. Rescue
Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S. 549. No more should
it be forestalled by decision upon the matters of coverage.
Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp., supra.
It is true that the presence of constitutional questions,
coupled with a sufficient showing of inadequacy of prescribed administrative relief and of threatened or impending irreparable injury flowing from delay incident to following the prescribed procedure, has been held sufficient
to dispense with exhausting the administrative process
before instituting judicial intervention.' But, without
going into a detailed analysis of the decisions, this rule is
not one of mere convenience or ready application. Where
the intent of Congress is clear to require administrative determination, either to the exclusion of judicial action or in
advance of it, a strong showing is required, both of inade3 Thus, the Court has permitted resort to a federal court of equity
where a state was enforcing confiscatory rates and by its law precluded a stay or supersedeas until the state courts "acting in a legislative capacity" had taken final action. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co.

v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290; Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Kuykendall, 265
U. S. 196; Porter v. Investors Syndicate, 286 U. S. 461. For other
decisions holding that a federal court may exercise its equitable
jurisdiction where there is an inadequate state remedy to correct a
constitutional wrong, see Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U. S. 620;
Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66.
The rule has been applied most frequently in respect to state rather
than federal administrative action, though of course it is not inapplicable to the latter, notwithstanding the power of Congress to regulate the jurisdiction and procedure of the federal courts may present
obstacles to its application not present in state cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

quacy of the prescribed procedure and of impending harm,
to permit short-circuiting the administrative process.
Congress' commands for judicial restraint in this respect
are not lightly to be disregarded.
More especially is this true with legislation, of this type,
adopted during and to meet the emergency of war and
resting, at least in part, upon war powers. For, in such
cases, "only if we could say in advance of resort to the
statutory procedure that it is incapable of affording due
process to petitioners could we conclude that they have
shown any legal excuse for their failure to resort to it or
that their constitutional rights have been or will be infringed," Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414, 435, a
statement implicitly requiring exhaustion, not merely
initiation, of the statutory procedure.
We need not decide in this case, however, whether mere
doubt concerning the adequacy of administrative or other
relief would be sufficient for allowing anticipation of the
administrative determination. For that course is not to
be followed if there is another remedy, not inconsistent
with the congressional command, and of certain character,
even though it be neither so expeditious or convenient as
some other sought to be substituted which circumvents
that command. To this of course should be added the
further qualification that following the prescribed remedy,
upon the showing made, will not certainly or probably
result in the loss or destruction of substantive rights.
This brings us to consideration of the showing made
here in support of equity's intervention. That showing,
we think when considered in the light of the foregoing
principles and of the statute's clear purpose and intent,
is not sufficient.
Whatever may be the scope allowed generally for equity
to intervene upon the ground of inadequacy of legal
remedies, where no explicit congressional command exists
for following a prescribed procedure, the problem when

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

775

Opinion of the Court.

such a mandate is present is entirely different from one
tendered in its absence. The very fact that Congress has
made the direction must be cast into the scales as against
the factors which, without that fact, would or might be of
sufficient weight to turn the balance in favor of allowing
utilization of equity's resources. That fact itself may be
of such weight as to turn the scales the other way, even in

situations much more doubtful than the present one. In
short, the so-called general principles governing the exercise of jurisdiction in equity are not to be taken, in such a
case, as isolated from all effect of the legislative mandate

or necessarily or even readily as overriding it.
In the first place, there can be no doubt of the avail-

ability or indeed of the certainty and effectiveness of
appellant's remedy at law by suit upon its contracts
against its customers claimed to owe it money under those

agreements. Suits of that character are not forbidden,
either expressly or impliedly by the Renegotiation Acts.
Nor are they made dependent upon completion of the Tax
Court proceedings.39 Moreover we know of no reason
39 It is unnecessary to consider whether in such a suit a district court
should find it proper to defer its final decision until after the Tax
Court had made its final redetermination, in order possibly to avoid
the necessity of deciding the constitutional questions. Cf. American
Federation of Labor v. Watson, 327 U. S. 582, 599, and cases cited.
For, even in the event of such action, the court would have power to
preserve, pending the administrative decision, the status quo and all
rights of the appellant. The provision in § 403 (e) (1) that the filing
of a petition with the Tax Court "shall not operate to stay the execution of the order of the [War Contracts Price Adjustment] Board"
under § 403 (c) (2) does not mean that the courts are deprived of
their power to grant stays where necessary. "Where Congress wished
to deprive the courts of this historic power, it knew how to use apt
words . . . ." Scripps-Howard Radio v. Federal Communications
Commission, 316 U. S. 4,17. It did so in the Emergency Price Control
Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 23; see Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414,
429, 437, using very explicit language. Here the provision literally at
any rate appears to mean only that there shall be no automatic stay
by virtue of filing the petition in the Tax Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

why every question of constitutionality which has been
raised in this suit could not be presented and determined
in such a suit.
In addition, there is special reason in the statutory
provisions why that course should be followed rather than
allowing the present suit. Appellant is, as we have
pointed out, a subcontractor, not a contractor with the
Government. While its suit could be instituted directly
only against the contractor with whom it had dealt, nevertheless it is hardly conceivable that the Government
would permit the suit to go to final judgment without
intervention by it or, at the least, undertaking the responsibility for making the defense. For by § 403 (c)
(2)40 it is expressly provided: "Each contractor and subcontractor is hereby indemnified by the United States
against all claims by any subcontractor on account of
amounts withheld from such subcontractor pursuant to
this paragraph."
In the face of this indemnity, the contractor becomes
substantially a stakeholder as between the Government
and the subcontractor, and the latter's suit against the
contractor, if terminated favorably to the complainant,
would obligate the Government to indemnify or reimburse the contractor for the liability thus incurred. In
effect, the Government has consented to suit by the contractor in the Court of Claims on account of any liability
the contractor incurs by virtue of lawful payment of the
subcontractor's claims.
Accordingly, there would seem to be no substantial reason for regarding the suit against the contractor as inherently inadequate or ineffective for the protection of
any rights of the appellant, including constitutional ones.
The paragraph covers withholding payment pursuant to direction
by the Board to the contractor, for the account of the United States.
See note 13 supra.
40

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

777

Opinion of the Court.

In this respect the case stands identically with Coffman
v. Breeze Corporations,supra.41 If any such inadequacy
exists, it must be by virtue of factors extraneous to the
nature of the suit itself and not present in the Coffman
case.
These appellant seeks to establish in its showing relating to multiplicity of suits and irreparable injury. Apart
from multiplicity, the showing concerning injury certainly
would not be sufficient to justify eliminating the Tax
Court proceeding. 2 Boiled down, the allegations come
41

The situation of the licensor in the Coffman case, with reference

to the remedy by suit against its licensees was exactly the same as
appellant's situation here in respect to suit against its customers,
the contractors with the Government. We said, as to the adequacy
of that remedy: "But whether the provisions of the Act be valid
or invalid appellant shows no ground for equitable relief. If valid
they would be a defense, and appellant would be entitled to no relief
other than that afforded by the suit against the Government authorized by § 2 of the Act. If invalid, appellant's right to recover remains
unimpaired. The sufficiency of the defense may be as readily tested
in a suit at law to recover the royalties as by the present suit in
equity to enjoin payment of the royalties into the Treasury. In
either case appellant would receive all the relief to which it shows
itself entitled." 323 U. S. at 323.
The Coffman decision stood squarely upon the grounding of the
adequacy of the remedy by suit against the licensees, although it
rested also upon the alternative ruling that there was no case or
controversy. This was for the reason that the appellant asserted
no right to recover the royalties, but asked only a determination
that the Royalty Adjustment Act was unconstitutional "and, if so
found, that compliance with the Act be enjoined, an issue which
appellee . .. declines to contest." This, we said, made the prayer
of the bill "but a request for an advisory opinion as to the validity
of a defense to a suit for recovery of the royalties." 323 U. S. at
323,324.
42 It
is alleged that appellant, unless allowed to maintain this suit,
will be caused unnecessarily to run the risk of impaired credit or
insolvency of customers directed to withhold funds; that its working
capital essential to carrying out its obligations with contractors and
subcontractors would be reduced; that its operations "will be ham-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

to appellant's assuming, for the period necessary to secure
either the Tax Court's decision or final judgment in suits
against its customers directed to withhold, the continued
risk of their solvency, without specific allegation that any
of them is seriously so threatened or facts to support such
a claim; and to deprivation, for the same period, of the use
of $270,000 directed to be withheld.4 3 We do not think
this showing alone, without regard to multiplicity, approaches what would be required to sustain the intervention of a court of equity, particularly in order to avoid
or anticipate the congressionally authorized proceeding.
Nor, in the facts of this case, is the showing made concerning multiplicity of suits sufficient for that purpose.
Appellant's case as made in this feature is that it would
be forced to sue some sixteen "or more" customers, in
various and scattered jurisdictions, with consequent expense of litigation and "resultant ill-feeling and irreparable injury" to good will and appellant's business. On
pered and its business irreparably damaged by the reduction of its
working capital"; and that it will be forced either to continue supplying customers directed to withhold payment, impairing its assets and
the interests of stockholders or, in the alternative, to refuse making
such shipments with the asserted consequence of being unable to
continue in business, "inasmuch as a substantial portion of its market
for its products presently is prime contractors with the United States
and subcontractors thereof."
43Appellant also alleges that it "could not recover interest for the
use of its money" in a suit against the United States in the Court of
Claims, which on other counts it asserts is both unavailable and inadequate. There is no allegation, however, concerning interest as not
being recoverable in suits against its customers. And, as we have
pointed out above, the statutory indemnity provided for such contractors is in sufficiently broad terms to cover interest as well as any
other liability incurred by them through authorized withholding, a
guaranty which certainly would not preclude recovery of interest by
the suit against the contractors if terminated on the merits in
appellant's favor.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

779

Opinion of the Court.

the other hand stands the affidavit of appellee Hirsch that
direction for withholding and payment into the Treasury
will not be needed or given in more than two or three
instances, and in case any balance should remain it will
be collected through suit instituted by the Government.
Whether the District Court accepted one version of
the facts or the other, it found there was no sufficient
basis in the claim of multiplicity to sustain equity's assumption of jurisdiction. We would not be disposed to
override that judgment of the trial court, turning as much
as it may upon questions of fact.44
Moreover, it is not apparent, at any rate from the
allegations, why it would be necessary for appellant to
sue all of the sixteen customers or indeed perhaps more
than one of them in order to secure a determination of its
constitutional rights or preserve its rights. A single test
suit would serve the former purpose fully, and there are
no allegations of fact sufficient to show that appellant's
rights of recourse against others probably would be lost
by awaiting the outcome of such a suit, either legally
through the operation of statutes of limitations or practically, as we have said, through any probable incidence
of insolvency.
In the absence of either kind of showing, the injury
appellant seeks to avoid by the argument of multiplicity
actually comes down, as we have said, to deprivation of the
use of the amount withheld for the period required for
4It
is perhaps of some significance in this respect that the complaint contains allegations, though not made in this connection, relating to both the fiscal years 1942 and 1943 to the effect that over 80 per
cent of the dollar value of appellant's total shipments were made to
three private concerns, Fairchild Engine and Airplane Corporation,
General Motors Corporation, Woodward Governor Company, and the
United States Navy. Concerning the shipments to the Navy, see
note 8.

755552 0-48-----53

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

completion of the Tax Court proceedings or a test suit
against a customer. Whether or not there will be any
injury in this limited respect depends of course, first, on
the outcome of the Tax Court proceedings, particularly
in relation to the matters of coverage; second, on whether,
upon the assumption that those proceedings sustain the
Government's claim as to all or part of the $270,000, the
amount thus found due is finally held, in authorized litigation, to be due and owing to the appellant or to the
Government. And, as we have also said, if that result
should favor the appellant, the Government's obligation
to indemnify the contractor would be, in effect, indirectly
available to appellant to indemnify it for any loss of the
use of the moneys withheld. 5
Whatever might be true in other circumstances, this
showing as to the necessity for suing many customers is
hardly sufficient to justify the substitution of equity's
extraordinary relief for what in all the conditions of this
case appears to be a full, adequate and completely
available remedy at law. Coffman v. Breeze Corporations, supra; Macauley v. Waterman S. S. Corp., supra.
Indeed the argument of multiplicity, with others, was
expressly advanced and rejected in the Waterman case, as
ground for not applying the Myers rule and for sustaining
declaratory and equitable intervention to circumvent it.
After noting the company's claim, with others, that "it
would be subjected to a multiplicity of suits in order to
recover the money due on the contracts," we there said:
"Even if one or all of these things might possibly occur in
the future, that possibility does not affect the application
of the rule requiring exhaustion of administrative remedies. The District Court had no power to determine in
this proceeding and at this time issues that might arise
45See note 43 supra.

AIRCRAFT & DIESEL CORP. v. HIRSCH.
752

781

Opinion of the Court.

because of these future contingencies." 327 U. S. at
545.
This case is perhaps even stronger than the Waterman
case for application of the Myers rule. For here the appellant is a subcontractor retaining what the contractor
complainant did not have in the Waterman case, namely,
a completely adequate remedy at law against its customers, buttressed by the Government's guaranty of indemnity to the contractor for all liability incurred by
him on account of withholding funds allegedly due the
appellant.
In view of that fact the further one that constitutional
issues are included among those tendered in this case but
were not presented in the Waterman case, becomes wholly
immaterial. To countenance short-circuiting of the Tax
Court proceedings here would be, under all the circumstances but more especially in view of Congress' policy
and command with respect to those proceedings, a long
overreaching of equity's strong arm.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

dissents.

