OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
E. C. ATKINS & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 419.

Argued March 7, 10, 1947.-Decided May 19, 1947.

1. The determination of the National Labor Relations Board that,
in the circumstances of this case, certain guards at a private plant
of the respondent engaged in war production, though employed
in accordance with a requirement of the War Department and
enrolled as civilian auxiliaries to the military police of the United
States Army subject to Army Regulations, were "employees" of
respondent within the meaning of § 2 (3) of the National Labor
Relations Act was justified by the evidence and the law; and the
cease-and-desist order based thereon should have been enforced
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Pp. 414-415.
2. A determination of the Board that rank-and-file plant guards are
''employees" under the Act may in an appropriate case be legally
justified, since they bear essentially the same relation to management as maintenance and production employees. Pp. 404-405.
3. A proceeding to enforce a cease-and-desist order of the National
Labor Relations Board, based upon a finding that the employer
had committed an unfair labor practice by refusing to recognize
and bargain with a union selected by private plant guards while
they were serving as civilian auxiliaries of the military police of
the Army, held not to have been rendered moot by the subsequent
demilitarization of the guards. P. 402.
4. A determination by the National Labor Relations Board of whether
one is an "employee" within the coverage of the National Labor
Relations Act must be accepted by the reviewing courts if it has
a reasonable basis in the evidence and is not inconsistent with
the law. Labor Board v. Hearst Publications, 322 U. S. 111.
P. 403.
5. In defining and applying the terms "employer" and "employee,"
as used in the National Labor Relations Act, the Board is not confined to the technical and traditional concepts of "employer" and
"employee," but is free to take account of the more relevant economic and statutory considerations. P. 403.
155 F. 2d 567, reversed.

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

An order of the National Labor Relations Board, 56
N. L. R. B. 1056, issued under the National Labor Relations Act, was denied enforcement by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 155 F. 2d 567. (A previous judgment, 147 F.
2d 730, had been vacated and the case remanded by this
Court, 325 U. S. 838.) This Court granted certiorari.
329 U. S. 710. Reversed, p. 415.
Ruth Weyand argued the cause for petitioner. With
her on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Gerhard P. Van Arkel, Morris P. Glushien and
Mozart G. Ratner.
Frederic D. Anderson argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Kurt F. Pantzer.
MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The problem posed by this case is whether private plant
guards, who are required to be civilian auxiliaries to the
military police of the United States Army, are employees
within the meaning of § 2 (3) of the National Labor Relations Act, 29 U. S. C. § 152 (3).
At all material times, the respondent corporation was
engaged in the manufacture of saws, tools and armor.
plate. It employed more than 1,200 production and
maintenance employees at its two plants at Indianapolis,
Indiana. Before it began to produce armor plate for defense and war purposes, respondent employed about six
watchmen or guards. When it entered upon war production, however, the War Department required that an
auxiliary military police force of sixty-four members be
established to guard the plants.
In 1943, after the necessary additional guards had been
recruited, a union 1 petitioned the National Labor RelaI Local 1683 of the International Association of Machinists, District
90.

This union did not represent any of the maintenance or produc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

tions Board for investigation and certification of representatives pursuant to § 9 (c) of the Act. It was alleged
that the union represented the sixty-four plant guards
employed by respondent at its two plants. The respondent moved to dismiss the petition on the ground that it
was not the employer of the guards within the meaning of § 2 (2) and that the guards were not employees
as defined by § 2 (3). A hearing was thereupon held
and evidence concerning the status of the guards was
introduced.
On October 19, 1943, the Board concluded from the
evidence thus submitted that these plant guards were
employees within the meaning of § 2 (3) despite their
status as civilian auxiliaries to the military police. 52
N. L. R. B. 1470. It held that all the plant guards at
respondent's two plants, excluding the chief guards, lieutenants and all other supervisory employees with authority
to hire, promote, discharge, discipline, or otherwise effect
changes in the status of employees, or effectively
recommend such action, constituted a unit appropriate
for collective bargaining. An election was therefore
directed to be held, which resulted in the union in
question being chosen as bargaining representative. The
union was certified by the Board as the exclusive representative of the plant guards.
Subsequently, the union filed charges that the respondent had refused to bargain collectively. A complaint was
issued by the Board, followed by a hearing at which evidence regarding that refusal was introduced. The Board,
on May 30, 1944, issued its decision in which it concluded
that the guards were employees of respondent and that
the latter had committed unfair labor practices in refusing
to bargain with the union. 56 N. L. R. B. 1056.
tion employees in respondent's plants, but it did admit to membership
plant protection employees of other employers as well as those of
respondent.

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

The Board accordingly issued an order requiring respondent to cease and desist from refusing to bargain collectively with the union, and commanding it to bargain
with the union, upon request, in respect to rates of pay,
wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment. The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals declined to enforce the Board's order, holding (1) that the
guards were not employees of the respondent within the
meaning of § 2 (3) of the Act since they were militarized,
and (2) that even if the militarized guards were to be
considered as employees of respondent, enforcement of
the Board's order should not be allowed because to do so
would be or would likely be inimical to the public welfare.
147 F. 2d 730.
In filing a petition in this Court for a writ of certiorari,
the Board noted that the guard forces at respondent's
plants had been demilitarized early in 1944, but urged
that the case was not thereby rendered moot. We granted
certiorari, vacated the judgment below and remanded the
case to the Circuit Court of Appeals "for further consideration of the alleged changed circumstances with respect to the demilitarization of the employees involved,
and the effect thereof on the Board's orders." 325
U. S.838.
The Board and the respondent entered into a stipulation relative to the dates and circumstances of the demilitarization of the guards. The stipulation noted that
most of the guards had been released from service and
that only eleven of them had been retained as watchmen
by respondent as of February 23, 1946; and those eleven
had been "sworn in as Deputy Policemen by the City of
Indianapolis." The Board then filed a motion in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for a decree enforcing its order.
This motion was denied and the prior holding was reaffirmed, the court stating that the demilitarization was
irrelevant to the issue of whether the plant guards were

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

employees at the time when the respondent refused to
bargain with the union. 155 F. 2d 567. The importance
of the problem raised by the case, together with a conflict
over the answer to this problem between the court below
and the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, Labor Board v.
Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 146 F. 2d 718, prompted
us to grant a further review of the case.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
demilitarization of the guards did not render the case
moot and that it had no effect upon the prime issue in
the case. The Board's order was based upon a holding
that the respondent committed an unfair labor practice
by refusing to recognize and bargain with the union selected by the militarized guards. And that refusal occurred at a time when the guards were still militarized.
A determination that the respondent had a statutory
duty to bargain with the union at that time is therefore
essential to the validity of the Board's order. The fact
that the guards were subsequently demilitarized did not
affect their status as employees at this crucial juncture;
nor did it relieve respondent of any duty to bargain that
it might otherwise have had at that point.
The Board's order, moreover, was a continuing direction
to bargain collectively with the union designated by the
guards. Demilitarization has not dispensed with whatever duty respondent may have now or in the future to
comply with that order. If the guards were employees of
respondent entitled to the benefits of the Act during the
period of militarization, a fortiori they are employees
now that all connections with the Army have been severed; and their statutory rights continue to be entitled to
full respect. Respondent's guard force still remains in
existence, although considerably reduced in size, and the
union presumably continues to be the representative of the
guards. Under such circumstances, the case is not moot.
Labor Board v. Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 271; J. I.

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

Case Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332, 334. See also
Federal Trade Commission v. Goodyear Co., 304 U. S. 257,
260.
As to the merits, it is elementary that the Board has the
duty of determining in the first instance who is an employee for purposes of the National Labor Relations Act
and that the Board's determination must be accepted by
reviewing courts if it has a reasonable basis in the evidence
and is not inconsistent with the law. Labor Board v.
Hearst Publications,322 U. S. 111. Realizing that labor
disputes and industrial strife are not confined to those who
fall within ordinary legal classifications, Congress has not
attempted to spell out a detailed or rigid definition of an
employee or of an employer. The relevant portion of
§ 2 (3) simply provides that "The term 'employee' shall
include any employee, . .." In contrast, § 2 (2) states
that "The term 'employer' includes any person acting in
the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly, . . ."
As we recognized in the Hearst case, the terms "employee"
and "employer" in this statute carry with them more than
the technical and traditional common law definitions.
They also draw substance from the policy and purposes of
the Act, the circumstances and background of particular
employment relationships, and all the hard facts of
industrial life.
And so the Board, in performing its delegated function
of defining and applying these terms, must bring to its
task an appreciation of economic realities, as well as a recognition of the aims which Congress sought to achieve by
this statute. This does not mean that it should disregard
the technical and traditional concepts of "employee" and
"employer." But it is not confined to those concepts.
It is free to take account of the more relevant economic and
statutory considerations. And a determination by the
Board based in whole or in part upon those considerations
is entitled to great respect by a reviewing court, due to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Board's familiarity with the problems and its experience
in the administration of the Act.
Laying aside for the moment the matter of militarization, we cannot say in this case that the Board would be
legally unjustified in holding that the rank-and-file plant
guards are employees within the meaning of the Act.
They bear essentially the same relation to management as
maintenance and production employees. In fact, they are
indistinguishable from ordinary watchmen, gatemen, patrolmen, firemen and guards-persons who have universally been regarded and treated as employees for purposes
of union membership and employee benefits. They perform such duties as inspecting persons, packages and vehicles, carrying cash to various parts of the plant, and
generally surveying the premises to detect fires, suspicious
circumstances and sabotage. Moreover, the guards in
question are not supervisors; they possess no power to
affect the working conditions of other employees. Without collective bargaining, they are subject to the unilateral
determination by the employer of their wages, hours, seniority, tenure and other conditions of work. Individually,
they suffer from inequality of bargaining power and their
need for collective action parallels that of other employees.
From any economic or statutory standpoint, the Board
would be warranted in treating them as employees. Even
under conventional standards, they are controlled by management to an extent sufficient to justify designating them
as employees.
Nor can we say, as a matter of law, that permitting plant
guards to be considered as employees entitled to the benefits of the Act would make them any less loyal to their
employer in carrying out their designated tasks. In
guarding the plant and personnel against physical danger,
they represent the management's legitimate interest in
plant protection. But that function is not necessarily inconsistent with organizing and bargaining with the em-

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

ployer on matters affecting their own wages, hours and
working conditions. They do not lose the right to serve
themselves in these respects merely because in other respects they represent a separate and independent interest
of management. As in the case of foremen, we see no
basis in the Act whatever for denying plant guards the
benefits of the statute when they take collective action to
protect their collective interests. PackardMotor Car Co.
v. Labor Board, 330 U. S. 485.
We cannot assume, moreover, that labor organizations
will make demands upon plant guard members or extract
concessions from employers so as to decrease the loyalty
and efficiency of the guards in the performance of their
obligations to the employers. There is always that possibility, but it does not qualify as a legal basis for taking
away from the guards all their statutory rights. In other
words, unionism and collective bargaining are capable of
adjustments to accommodate the special functions of plant
guards.
The crucial problem in this case, however, is whether
the militarization of the plant guards changed their status
as employees as a matter of law so as to prohibit the Board
from extending to them the benefits of the Act which they
would otherwise have. The short answer to that problem
is that militarization as such does not necessarily change
the status of plant guards. It may or may not bring about
a change, depending upon the particular circumstances.
The militarization may be a qualified one; the employer
may retain power to fix wages, hours and other conditions
of work; the need and desirability for collective action on
the part of the guards may exist as to the matters over
which the employer retains control; and a recognition of
the statutory rights of the guards may be entirely consistent with their military obligations. If that is the case,
the guards remain employees for purposes of the Act. But
if the militarization is such as to transfer to the Army all

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

the matters over which the employer would normally have
control, matters which would form the basis for collective
bargaining as contemplated by the Act, the guards may
lose their status as private employees within the purview
of the statute.
The Board's determination that the militarization of
the guards in respondent's plants was of a type that did
not alter their status as employees under the Act must
therefore be tested by the applicable War Department
regulations and by the evidence introduced at the hearing before the Board. If such a result is consistent with
the regulations and has a reasonable basis in the other
evidence, the Board's order must be sustained.
The plant guards in this case were enrolled as civilian
auxiliaries to the military police under War Department
regulations issued pursuant to Executive Order No. 8972,
dated December 12, 1941. That order authorized the
Secretary of War to establish and maintain military guards
and patrols, and to take other appropriate measures, to
protect certain strategic premises, materials and utilities
from injury and destruction. The Secretary of War accordingly directed the military organization of plant guard
forces as auxiliary military police at plants important to
the prosecution of the war, the directive to that effect being
issued by the Adjutant General on July 2, 1942. Supplementary regulations were contained in Circular No. 15,
issued on March 17, 1943, by Headquarters, Army Service
Forces.2
As stated by these regulations, the purpose of the military organization of the plant guards was "to increase the
authority, efficiency, and responsibility of guard forces
2 Circular No. 15 was not introduced into evidence in the proceeding before the Board. But it was issued by military authorities
pursuant to the power vested in the Secretary of War by Executive
Order No. 8972 and we may take judicial notice of it. Standard Oil
Co. v. Johnson, 316 U. S. 481, 483-484.

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

at plants important to the prosecution of the war, and
through military training to provide auxiliary forces
throughout the United States to supplement the Army
in wartime emergency situations."'
It was made clear,
however, that plant managements were not relieved of
their responsibility "for providing adequate protection at
all times against all hazards."'
In other words, employers who wished to obtain government contracts for
the production of war materials were required to provide
"adequate protection" for their plants where the material
was to be produced; if the existing plant protection forces
were inadequate, additional guards were to be recruited by
the employers. But all the original and additional guards
were to be enrolled as civilian auxiliaries to the military
police.
The military authorities reserved the right to veto the
hiring or firing of any plant guard where such action by
the employer might impair the efficiency of the guard
force.5 And the military plant guard officers were authorized to take appropriate action "through the plant
management" to correct conditions which might result in
"defective or inadequate performance by the guard forces
of its ordinary protective duties." 6
The functions of these civilian auxiliaries to the military police were stated to be twofold: "(1) To provide
internal and external protection of the plant against sabotage, espionage, and natural hazards. (2) To serve with
the Army in providing protection to the plant and its
environs in emergency situations." " They were subject
to call for military service even where emergencies arose
at places other than the plants where they normally
3 Circular No. 15, par. la.
Id. par. lb.
5 Id. par. 6b (2).
6
Id. par. lb.
7
Id. par. 2a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

worked. To these ends, military plant guard officers were
authorized to exercise direct control over the guard forces
"only in matters relating to military instruction and duties
as Auxiliary Military Police." 8 But such orders "will be
issued only after consultation with and, if possible, concurrence by the plant management. . . . Control, therefore, will be exercised as heretofore through the plant management except at drill and except in emergency situations.
Although the plant guard officers will be in command at
all times, they will not supplant the civilian guard officers,
and unless expediency demands otherwise will exercise
their authority through the chain of command established
by the plant management." 9 The regulations also provided that the military drill of the guard forces should not
exceed one hour per week "except with the approval of the
plant management." 10
As to the employer's relations with the guard force, the
regulations were explicit in recognizing that those relations remained essentially the same as if there were no
militarization. According to Circular No. 15: "Basically,
the militarization of plant guard forces does not change
the existing systems of hiring, compensation, and dismissal; all remain primarily a matter between the guards
and the plant managements. Guards in the employ of
a private employer may, as heretofore, be dismissed by
that employer." "' A veto power over employment and
dismissal, of course, was retained by the military. It was
further provided: "The status of the employer in respect
to the employee benefits for the guard force is not changed.
For example, social security, workmen's compensation, and
8

1d. par. 5a (2).

9

1d. pars. 5c (2) and 6a (1).
10 Id.par. 7g (1).
I Id. par. 6b (1).

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

employer's liability provisions remain unaffected."12
And the employer was expected to train the guard forces
in their ordinary protective duties and was required to
13
furnish them with uniforms and weapons.
The right of the plant guards to bargain collectively
was recognized by Circular No. 15, paragraph 6h (2) of
which provided: "Auxiliary Military Police are permitted
to bargain collectively, but no such activity will be tolerated which will interfere with their obligations as members of the Auxiliary Military Police. In view of recent
decisions by the National Labor Relations Board (see In
re Lord Mfg. Co. & United Rubber Workers of America,
CIO, Case No. R-4826, February 1943) [Lord Manufacturing Co., 47 N. L. R. B. 1032], the Auxiliary Military.
Police should be represented in collective bargaining
with the management by a bargaining unit other than
that composed of the production and maintenance workers, although both bargaining units may be affiliated
with the same labor organization. Where the guards are
not now included in the same bargaining unit, this is mandatory; where the guards are included in such unit, serious
consideration will be given to effect a change to conform
to the foregoing policies." Provision was also made that
collective bargaining agreements covering plant guards
who were civilian auxiliaries should include a clause recognizing that nothing in the collective bargaining relationship should interfere with the duties imposed upon the
guards as auxiliary military police."
Id. par. 6f.
The guards were required to salute Army officers and had the right
to arrest anyone in the plants. They carried identification cards issued
by the War Department and wore arm bands on which appeared the
words "Auxiliary Military Police." Id. par. 7.
12
13

14 Id. par. 6h (1).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The guards were required to sign agreements with the
United States.' Each agreement stated that the individual, who had been or was about to be employed by the
particular company as a guard at its plant, agreed that he
would support and defend the Constitution, bear true faith
and allegiance to the Constitution, and faithfully discharge his duties as a civilian auxiliary to the military
police. He also acknowledged in this agreement that appropriate Articles of War had been read and explained to
him and that he was subject to military law during his
employment. The applicable regulations then provided
that he could be court-martialed where no other effective
form of punishment would be effective. But "Unlike the
court-martial punishment of a person in military service,
a court martial cannot punish a member of the Auxiliary
Military Police by reduction in military grade or by forfeiture of pay and allowances. Analogous punishments
might be imposed, such as reduction in grade in the guard
organization or temporary suspension from duty. A fine,
as distinguished from forfeiture, is regarded as an appropriate form of punishment." " In all other respects, the
guards remained subject to the civil courts.
The evidence and testimony submitted to the Board
confirmed the fact that the plant guards in respondent's
two plants were militarized in accordance with the foregoing regulations. The guards at each plant were under the
direct supervision of a chief guard and several lieutenants-all of whom were civilians recruited by the respondent like the rank-and-file guards. The military superior
of the chief guards was the District Plant Guard Officer
15If a guard refused to sign this agreement, he might be, but need
not be, temporarily retained with the understanding that he would be
dismissed as soon as he could be replaced, and in any event within a
reasonable time. Id. par. 5b (1).
16 Id. par. 8d.

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

stationed at the Continuous Security District Office of the
War Department, Cincinnati, Ohio, an officer who also had
charge of guard forces at other plants in the district. A
general directive issued by this office repeated many of the
provisions of Circular No. 15.17 It also provided that orders and regulations for the auxiliary military police would
be issued in the name of the Chief of the District "after
plant management has indicated its concurrence by signing the guard order in the lower left hand corner." But
the only guard orders received by the chief guards at respondent's plants were three general ones signed by the
District Plant Guard Officer, orders that were applicable
to all militarized guards in the district. All the specific
orders that were ever issued emanated from the chief
guards. About the only direct contact between the military authorities and these guards occurred during the
weekly drill period.
Respondent recruited the necessary additional guards
through its ordinary employment channels and it had the
power to initiate dismissals from the force. Such actions,
however, were subject to the approval of the military.
Respondent at all times carried the guards on its regular
pay rolls, determined their rate of compensation and paid
their wages after making appropriate deductions. And
since it did not operate on a cost-plus basis, respondent
actually bore the cost of the guards' wages.18 Respondent
17This directive, however, omitted par. 6h (2) of Circular No. 15,
dealing with the right of guards to bargain collectively.
18 Respondent argues that it was forced to pay the guards because
of the War Department's action in requiring additional plant protection. But respondent was not forced to enter into its war production
contracts with the Government. It did so voluntarily and with the
understanding that it would comply with any terms and conditions
the Government saw fit to impose. One of these conditions was that
respondent expand its peacetime guard force of six men to a wartime
complement of sixty-four. So far as these additional guards being
755552 0-48-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

did not attempt to give orders to the guards, merely making suggestions to the chief guards. The latter worked in
close cooperation with respondent's personnel manager
and no friction developed. Respondent delegated to the
chief guards its power to determine the guards' working
hours and the promotion policies in regard to them. Finally, respondent maintained its liability as to the guards
on matters of social security and workmen's compensation and was obliged to obey all minimum wage and maximum hour requirements.
From the foregoing, an ample basis is evident to support
the Board's determination that militarization did not destroy the employee status of the guards in respondent's
plants. The War Department regulations and the actual
practice in these plants were based upon the explicit assumption that the guards were the private employees of
respondent rather than employees or soldiers of the United
States. The regulations made it unmistakable that the
normal, private employer-employee relationship was to
remain substantially intact. Especially clear was the fact
that the right of the guards to join unions and to bargain
collectively was to be respected. The military authorities took over from respondent only those attributes of
control which were necessary to effectuate the rather limited military program, many aspects of that transferred
power being exercisable by the Army only in the gravest
emergencies.
We cannot say that the Board was without warrant in
law or in fact in concluding that respondent retained "a
sufficient residual measure of control over the terms and
conditions of employment of the guards" so that they
respondent's employees is concerned, it is no different from a requirement that respondent employ more chemists or other production
experts to facilitate execution of the contracts.

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

might fairly be described as employees of respondent. 9
The most important incidents of the employer-employees
relationship-wages, hours and promotion-remained
matters to be determined by respondent rather than by the
Army. Respondent could settle those vital matters unilaterally or by agreement with the guards. And the
guards were free to negotiate and bargain individually or
collectively on these items. It is precisely such a situation
to which the National Labor Relations Act is applicable.
It is a situation where collective bargaining may be appropriate and where statutory objectives may be achieved
despite the limitations imposed by militarization. Under
such circumstances, the Board may properly find that an
employee status exists for purposes of the Act.
In this setting, it matters not that respondent was deprived of some of the usual powers of an employer, such
as the absolute power to hire and fire the guards and the
absolute power to control their physical activities in the
performance of their service. Those are relevant but not
exclusive indicia of an employer-employee relationship
under this statute. As we have seen, judgment as to the
existence of such a relationship for purposes of this Act
must be made with more than the common law concepts
in mind. That relationship may spring as readily from
the power to determine the wages and hours of another,
19The Board's conclusion in this respect is confirmed by the results

reached under other statutes. Militarized guards have been treated
as private employees for purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Walling v. Lum, 4 WH Cases 465. And they have consistently
been treated as such by the National War Labor Board. Detroit
Steel ProductsCo., 6 War Lab. Rep. 495; Brewster Aeronautical Corp.,
11 War Lab. Rep. 286, 15 War Lab. Rep. 239, 240-243; Great American Industries, 11 War Lab. Rep. 287; Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co., 15 War Lab. Rep. 500, 19 War Lab. Rep. 813; General Motors
Corp., 18 War Lab. Rep. 541. And see Labor Board v. Carroll, 120
F. 2d 457.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

coupled with the obligation to bear the financial burden
of those wages and the receipt of the benefits of the hours
worked, as from the absolute power to hire and fire or the
power to control all the activities of the worker. In other
words, where the conditions of the relation are such that
the process of collective bargaining may appropriately be
utilized as contemplated by the Act, the necessary relationship may be found to be present. Labor Board v.
Hearst Publications,supra,129.
The Board's determination that there was a relationship in this case deserving of statutory protection does
not reflect an isolated or careless reconciliation of the
rights guaranteed by the Act with the important wartime
duties of plant protection employees. In the course of
its administration of the Act during the war, the Board
was faced with this problem many times."° It was well
acquainted with the important and complex considerations inherent in the situation. The responsibility of representing the public interest in such matters and of reaching a judgment after giving due weight to all the relevant
factors lay primarily with the Board. See Southern
Steamship Co. v. Labor Board, 316 U. S. 31, 47. In the
absence of some compelling evidence that the Board has
failed to measure up to its responsibility, courts should be
reluctant to overturn the considered judgment of the
Board and to substitute their own ideas of the public
interest. We find no such evidence in this case.
Here we have the Board's considered and consistent
judgment that militarized plant guards may safely be permitted to join unions and bargain collectively and that
their military duties and obligations do not suffer thereby.
See, e. g., Chrysler Corporation,44 N. L. R. B. 881; Budd Wheel
Co., 52 N. L. R. B. 666; Dravo Corporation,52 N. L. R. B. 322. See
also National Labor Relations Board, Seventh Annual Report (1943),
p. 63; Eighth Annual Report (1944), p. 57.
20

LABOR BOARD v. ATKINS & CO.
398

Opinion of the Court.

In agreement with that viewpoint has been the War Department, the agency most directly concerned with the
military aspects of the problem. Its regulations and
directives have clearly acknowledged the feasibility of
recognizing collective bargaining rights of these guards
during wartime, provided only that no encroachment is
made upon military necessities. This policy of the Board,
moreover, has been confirmed by experience. The Board
states that it has certified bargaining representatives for
units of militarized guards in more than 105 cases, in none
of which has any danger to the public interest or to the war
effort resulted.
Under such circumstances, it would be folly on our part
to disregard or to upset the policy the Board has applied
in this case.'
Since the Board's order is in accord with the
law and has substantial roots in the evidence, it should
have been enforced by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Respondent's objections to the language and scope of the
order are either without merit or have been removed by
the demilitarization of the guards. And any issues concerning the subsequent deputization of the guards as
policemen are answered by our decision in Labor Board v.
Jones & LaughlinSteel Corp., post, p. 416. The judgment
below is accordingly
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE,

MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and

dissent substantially for the reasons
set forth in the opinion of the court below, 155 F. 2d 567.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

21 In

adopting the War Labor Disputes Act, 57 Stat. 163, Congress
provided in § 7 (a) (2) that all actions of the National War Labor
Board must conform to the provisions of the National Labor Relations
Act-an indication that Congress deemed the preservation of the right
to collective bargaining to be essential in war industries.

