OCTOBER TERM, 1946.

440

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING
No. 10, Original.

331 U. S.

ET AL.

Argued April 7, 1947.-Decided June 2, 1947.

1. Title to lands within a section granted to the State as school lands
by the Wyoming Enabling Act of July 10, 1890, but which, prior
to completion of an official survey, were included in a petroleum
reserve by a Presidential order promulgated under authority of
the Act of June 25, 1910, held not to have vested in the State.
Pp. 443-455.
(a) The Wyoming Enabling Act, though containing words of
present grant, did not vest in the State, immediately upon admission
into the Union, an indefeasible proprietary interest in the unsurveyed section, of such nature as precluded disposition by the Federal Government for other purposes. Pp. 444-446.
(b) Nothing in the legislative history of § 14 of the Organic Act
of 1868, nor of other Acts passed prior to the Wyoming Enabling
Act, supports the State's claim to title in this case. Pp. 446-448.
(c) The words "but shall be reserved for school purposes only"
in § 5 of the Enabling Act, together with the words of present grant
in § 4, are not to be construed as immediately vesting in the State
an indefeasible interest in the granted lands, nor as a limitation on
the Federal Government's power to deal with such lands in a manner consistent with applicable federal statutes. Pp. 448-455.
2. The State can not be deemed to have acquired an indefeasible
equitable right to the section on the basis of a survey which was
incomplete. Pp. 455-456.
3. On the claim of the United States to recover for oil taken from
public lands, the pleadings in this case put in issue the defendants'
good faith, and the master erred in excluding evidence relating to
this issue and in finding that either or both of the defendants had
acted innocently. Pp. 457-459.
4. The plaintiff's exception to the master's failure, even on the present
record, to make findings of the defendants' bad faith and to recommend a decree awarding damages accordingly, can not be sustained.
Pp. 459-460.

5. The good faith issue having been foreclosed in defendants' favor
by the master before any evidence had been introduced and consistently throughout the hearing, it was not incumbent upon the
defendants to make an offer of proof of good faith in order to have
a trial of the issue if the master should be found to have been wrong.
P. 459.

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

6. Constructive knowledge of the owner's title does not demonstrate
a trespasser's bad faith as a matter of law. P. 460.
7. Upon the record in this case, it is necessary to try the issue of
defendants' good faith throughout the entire period in dispute, as
the basis for determining the measure of plaintiff's recovery. P. 460.
8. The master should make special findings-so far as the parties
request them and adduce competent evidence to support them-as
to the value of the oil produced and the amount and nature of
any collateral proceeds from the operation, separately, and as to
the amount of each item of income and expense by the month and
year. P. 460.

This was an original suit in equity in this Court,
brought by the United States against the State of Wyoming and the Ohio Oil Company, to quiet title in the
United States to certain lands in Wyoming and to recover
for oil removed from the lands by the Company under a
lease from the State. The case was referred to a special
master. Upon exceptions by the plaintiff and the defendants to the master's report, the case is recommitted to him
for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of
this Court, p. 461.
Marvin J. Sonosky argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Bazelon,
Walter H. Williams and Robert M. Vaughan.
Donald R. Richberg and C. R. Ellery argued the cause
for defendants. With them on the brief were Normhan B.
Gray, Attorney General of Wyoming, A. M. Gee, Hal W.
Stewart, Harold H. Healy and W. H. Everett.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of the

Court,
The United States filed a complaint in this Court
against the State of-Wyoming and The Ohio Oil Company
to establish plaintiff's title to certain Wyoming lands
claimed by the State, and to recover for oil which the

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Company has taken from the lands under a lease from the
State.'
By joint answer, the defendants claimed title in the
State, and that both defendants have at all times in good
faith believed title to be in the State.
The case was referred to a special master, who heard
evidence and argument, and submitted to the Court a report, in which he recommended a decree quieting plaintiff's title to the lands in question, but denying plaintiff
any recovery for the oil heretofore taken. Both plaintiff
and defendants have entered exceptions to the adverse
parts of the report, and the case is now before us on such
exceptions.'
The lands in dispute are those lying within Section 36,
Township 58, Park County, Wyoming. It is conceded
that plaintiff originally had title to these lands as part of
the public lands of the United States. The master held
that the Enabling Act of July 10, 1890,' on which defendants rely as the source of their rights, properly construed,
would operate to vest title in the State only as of the date
that an official survey of the lines of the Section was approved by the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and then only if no inconsistent disposition of the lands
had been previously made. The master found, however,
that no such survey was made and approved until July 27,
1916. Several months earlier, on December 6, 1915,
these lands had been placed in a petroleum reserve by
Presidential order.
1 Jurisdiction

of this Court is invoked under Article III, § 2, cl. 2,
of the Constitution, and § 233 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 341).
United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621 (1892).
2 The master's report was filed October 14, 1946.
Plaintiff's exceptions thereto were filed on November 29 and defendants' on December
2, 1946. Argument was heard by the Court on April 7, 1947.
3 26 Stat. 222.
4This

order was promulgated under authority of the Act of June 25,
1910, 36 Stat. 847.

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

Defendants' exceptions to the master's findings and
conclusion relating to title give expression to two basic
contentions: first, that the Enabling Act immediately
vested in the State an indefeasible right to whatever lands
would be found on later survey to lie within Section 36;
second, that a so-called Coleman survey of 1892 identified
Section 36 sufficiently to create then in the State an indefeasible equity, which ripened into full legal title when
the complete survey was made and approved in 1916.
These contentions will be further elaborated and discussed
in order.
Consistent with the policy first given expression in the
Ordinance of 1785, the Federal Government has included
grants of designated sections of the public lands for school
purposes in the Enabling Act of each of the States admitted into the Union since 1802.' This Court has frequently
been called upon to construe the provisions and limitations
of such grants. It has consistently been held that under
the terms of the grants hitherto considered by this Court,
title to unsurveyed sections of the public lands which have
been designated as school lands does not pass to the State
upon its admission into the Union, but remains in the
Federal Government until the land is surveyed. Prior to
survey, those sections are a part of the public lands of the
United States and may be disposed of by the Government
in any manner and for any purpose consistent with applicable federal statutes. If upon survey it is found that
the Federal Government has made a previous disposition
of the section, the State is then entitled to select lieu lands
as indemnity in accordance with provisions incorporated
into each of the school-land grants. The interest of the
5 The Land Ordinance of 1785 provided: "There shall be reserved
the lot No. 16, of every township, for the maintenance of public
schools within the said township; . . . " Between 1802 and 1846
the grants were of the 16th section in each township; thereafter, of
sections 16 and 36. In some instances additional sections have been
granted. United States v. Morrison, 240 U. S. 192, 198 (1916).
755552 0-48--32

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

State vests at the date of its admission into the Union
only as to those sections which are surveyed at that time
and which previously have not been disposed of by the
6
Federal Government.
Defendants contend, however, that regardless of the rule
generally applicable in school-grant cases, the provisions
of the Wyoming Enabling Act are such that upon her
admission into the Union in 1890, an indefeasible proprietary interest in Sections 16 and 36 in each township,
whether surveyed or unsurveyed, vested immediately in
the State, except as to such sections as had been disposed
of previously by the Federal Government for other purposes. This interest, it is contended, is of such a nature,
as to preclude any appropriation or reservation of unsurveyed Sections 16 and 36 by the Federal Government
after the date of Wyoming's admission into the Union.
It is defendants' position, therefore, that the order of
the President of the United States issued December 6,
1915, which caused the lands here in issue to be included
in Petroleum Reserve No. 41, was not sufficient to defeat
the State's interest, even if it be assumed that a survey
of that section had not been completed at that time. We,
accordingly, turn our attention to the provisions of the
Wyoming Enabling Act which defendants rely upon to
support their contentions.
Section 4 of the Enabling Act provides:
"That sections numbered sixteen and thirty-six in
every township of said proposed State, and where
such sections, or any parts thereof, have been sold
or otherwise disposed of by or under the authority
of any act of Congress, other lands equivalent thereto
6 Wisconsin v. Lane, 245 U. S. 427 (1918); United States v. Stearns
Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 436 (1918) ; United States v. Morrison, supra;
Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373 (1902); Heydenfeldt v. Daney
Gold & Silver Mining Co., 93 U. S. 634 (1877). And see Wyoming
v. United States, 255 U. S.489, 500-501 (1921).

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

. are hereby granted to said State for the support
of common schools, . . . Provided, That section six
of the act of Congress of August ninth, eighteen
hundred and eighty-eight,' . . . shall apply to the
school and university indemnity lands of the said
State of Wyoming so far as applicable."
Defendants first point to the fact that in the granting
clause, Congress employed words of present grant. This
is said to evince an intention to vest immediately in the
State, not only legal title to sections 16 and 36 when surveyed and not otherwise disposed of, but also an indefeasible proprietary interest in the unsurveyed sections of the
school lands. We believe that this contention is precluded
by earlier decisions of this Court. In Heydenfeldt v.
Daney Gold & Silver Mining Co., 93 U. S. 634 (1877),
decided some thirteen years before the passage of the Wyoming Act, this Court construed the granting clause of the
Nevada Enabling Act, which contains language substantially identical to that of § 4 of the Wyoming Act,' as not
*

.

7 Section 6 of the Act of August 9, 1888, 25 Stat. 393, provides:
"That where lands in the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections, in the
Territory of Wyoming, are found upon survey to be in the occupancy,
and covered by the improvements of an actual pre-emption or homestead settler, or where either of them are fractional in quantity, in
whole or in part, or wanting because the townships are fractional
or have been or shall hereafter be reserved for public purposes, or
found to be mineral in character, other lands may be selected by an
agent appointed by the governor of the Territory in lieu thereof,
from the surveyed public lands within the Territory not otherwise
legally claimed or.appropriated at the time of selection .... "
s Section 7 of the Nevada Enabling Act, 13 Stat. 30, 32, provides:
"That sections numbers sixteen and thirty-six in every township, and
where such sections have been sold or otherwise disposed of by any act
of congress, other lands equivalent thereto in legal subdivisions of
not less than one quarter-section, and as contiguous as may be, shall
be, and are hereby, granted to said state for the support of common
schools."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

immediately vesting in the State title to sections of the
school lands unsurveyed at the date of admission.' In
United States v. Morrison, 240 U. S. 192, 205 (1916), this
Court stated: "We regard the decision in the Heydenfeldt
Case as establishing a definite rule of construction."
It is significant, also, that three years before the passage
of the Wyoming Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in construing the granting clause of the Colorado Enabling Act,
which also contains language of present grant, took the
position that title to unsurveyed school lands passes to the
State only at the date of survey and then only where the
Federal Government has made no other disposition of the
land prior to that time."
Defendants urge, however, that the pertinent language
of the Wyoming Enabling Act should be considered in connection with the legislative history of the Organic Act of
1868,11 under the authority of which Wyoming was organized into a territory. It is pointed out that § 14 of the Organic Act as originally introduced reserved sections 16 and
9 Defendants assert that the Heydenfeldt case cannot be regarded
as authority here because in reaching its result in the Heydenjeldt
case, this Court relied in part upon circumstances peculiar to Nevada.
The same argument was rejected in the Morrison case, supra at 205:
"It is also urged that the court emphasized the fact that there had
been no sale or disposition of the public lands ifi Nevada prior to
the Enabling Act and therefore that the clause could refer only to
future disposition; whereas, in the case of Oregon, there had been
earlier provisions for the disposal of the public domain. But Congress used the same phrase substantially in nearly every one of the
school grants, and it was the manifest intention to place the States
on the same footing in this matter. The same clause, relating to
the same subject, and enacted in pursuance of the same policy, did
not have one meaning in one grant and a different meaning in another;
it covered other dispositions, whether prior or subsequent, if made
before the land had been appropriately identified by survey and title
had passed."
10State of Colorado,6 L. D. 412.
1115 Stat. 178.

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

36 in each township for school purposes at the time "when
the lands in said Territory shall be surveyed, under the
direction of the Government of the United States, preparatory to bringing the same into market. . . ." During the
course of the debates on the bill, § 14 was amended to
eliminate the phrase quoted above, so that as finally enacted the Organic Act made a present reservation of the
lands for school purposes." It is not defendants' contention that § 14 of the Organic Act must necessarily prevail
over the provisions of the Enabling Act. It is urged,
however, that as a guide to construction, the legislative
history of § 14 of the Organic Act clearly indicates an intention on the part of Congress to vest in Wyoming, at
the date of its admission as a State, immediate interests
in all school lands, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, such
as to defeat any subsequent attempts by the Federal Government to reserve the sections for other purposes.
We find the argument unconvincing. During the
course of the congressional debates which preceded the
amending of § 14 of the Organic Act, concern was expressed by certain members of Congress that delaying
the reservation for school purposes until the date of survey
would leave open the possibility that the most choice
school lands would be settled upon by squatters, preemptors, or homesteaders, prior to survey so as to defeat the
reservation of those lands for school purposes. It was
apparently to deal with that situation that the amendment was passed. We find nothing in the desire of Congress to preserve the reservation of the school lands against
the claim of individual settlers, however, as evincing any
intention to strip from the Federal Government the power
to deal with those lands in the public interest as authorized by the applicable federal statutes. That Congress
did not so intend is indicated by the fact that only four
12 Cong. Globe, 40th Cong., 2d Sess., 2801-2802.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

years after the passage of the Organic Act, Congress reserved a large tract of the public lands in Wyoming for
the Yellowstone National Park.' In the Enabling Act,
it was specifically provided that Wyoming was not entitled to indemnity for sections 16 and 36 in the townships
included within the Yellowstone reservation. Even as
to the rights of individual settlers on the school lands,
Congress pursued no consistent course. Although the
amendment to § 14 of the Organic Act apparently was
passed to protect the right of the Territory to the school
lands against the claim of such individuals, Congress, in
the Act of August 9, 1888,"4 gave recognition to the claims
of homesteaders and preemptors established prior to survey and granted to the Territory the right to select other
portions of the public lands in lieu thereof. We conclude,
therefore, that nothing in the legislative history of the
acts passed before the Wyoming Enabling Act gives support to the State's claim to title in this case.
Defendant's principal contention, however, is that, regardless of the construction which might be required if
the granting clause of the Enabling Act stood alone, that
clause, read in connection with § 5 of the Act, gives clear
support to their position. Section 5 provides as follows:
"That all lands herein granted for educational purposes shall be disposed of only at public sale, . .. ;
and such land shall not be subject to preemption,
homestead entry, or any other entry under the land
laws of the United States, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, but shall be reserved for school purposes
only."
Defendants vigorously assert that the phrase "but shall
be reserved for school purposes only" completely and
irrevocably divested the Federal Government of power
13
14

Act of March 1, 1872, 17 Stat. 32.
See note 7, supra.

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

to dispose of or to deal with any sections 16 and 36 of
the public lands in the State not sold or otherwise disposed
of prior to the passage of the Enabling Act. This phrase
read in connection with the language of present grant in
§ 4, it is asserted, reveals a clear intention to vest immediately in the State an indefeasible interest in all such lands.
We do not believe that the language should be so
construed.
The phrase "but shall be reserved for school purposes
only" should not be considered apart from the language
which immediately precedes it. The clause beginning
with the semicolon in the last sentence in the section
clearly and explicitly treats the claims of individuals to
school lands asserted under the federal land laws and provides that those claims should not prevail against the
State. The phrase upon which Wyoming relies should
be construed as an affirmation of the State's interest as
opposed to the claims of such individuals. The phrase,
however, should not be construed as a limitation on the
Federal Government's powers to deal with such lands in a
manner consistent with the applicable federal statutes.
The powers of the Federal Government with respect to the
public lands, as contrasted to the claims of individuals
asserted under the land laws, are nowhere mentioned in
the section. We think that in the absence of such language, the section should not be construed as a limitation
on those powers. 5
Convincing support for this construction is found both
in the legislative history of the language contained in § 5
of the Wyoming Act and in subsequent congressional enactments. Language identical to the last clause of § 5
first appeared as part of § 11 of the Act of February 22,
15Cf. United States v. United Mine Workers of America, 330 U. S.
258 (1947); Guarantee Title & Trust Co. v. Title Guaranty & Surety
Co., 224U. S. 152, 155 (1912).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

1889,1 the Enabling Act for the States of Washington,
Montana, North Dakota, and South Dakota. A bill authorizing the admission of South Dakota, and containing
language similar to that later included in § 5 of the Wyoming Act, was first passed by the Senate." When the
bill came before the House for consideration, an amendment was approved which struck out all the provisions of
the Senate bill following the enacting clause and substituted a bill calling for the admission of Washington, Montana, North Dakota, and South Dakota.'8 As finally
passed by the House, the substitute bill provided that
rights of settlers to the school lands should be preserved
where settlements were made prior to survey or before
approval of the Act of admission." The conference committee, however, rejected those provisions; and the Act
as passed included language similar to that in the original
Senate bill and identical to that later incorporated into
the Wyoming Act, providing that the claims of the States
to the school sections should prevail over those of the
individual settlers."0 It will be observed that the conflict
between the provisions in the House bill and the Senate
bill related to the competing interests of the States and
the individual settlers. Nothing in this history indicates
that by accepting the alternative provided in the Senate
bill and resolving the conflict in favor of the States, Congress intended, also, to extinguish the powers of the Federal Government, theretofore exercised, with respect to the
1 25 Stat. 676.

19 Cong. Rec. 2802; Sen. Journ. 50th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 696.
Section 6 of that bill contained the following language: ". . . ; and
such sections shall not be subject to pre-emption or entry, whether
surveyed or unsurveyed, but shall be reserved for school purposes
only."
120 Cong. Rec.806-812.
19 Id. at 948, 951.
21Id. at 2104, 2116.
17

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

unsurveyed sections of the school lands. Nor is there any
evidence that Congress intended such a departure from
previous practice when it incorporated an identical clause
into § 5 of the Wyoming Act. Indeed, the House Committee Report states that the Enabling Act gives to Wyoming "the usual land grants," 21 and the manager of the
bill in the House of Representatives during the course
of the debates made a similar statement."
Additional support for the construction which we have
indicated as proper may be found in subsequent congressional enactments. Thus in the Act of February 28,
1891. which became law only seven months after the
passage of the Wyoming Enabling Act, Congress clearly
revealed its understanding that the Federal Government
had retained its powers to reserve and dispose of the unsurveyed school lands. That Act, the pertinent language
of which is set out in the margin," attempts, among other
things, to establish a uniform policy with respect to the
granting of lieu lands to the States where upon survey
it is found that the designated sections are subject to
homestead and pre-emption claims or where the Federal
Government has included such sections within a reserH. R. Rep. No. 39, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., 26.
Cong. Rec. 2707.
23 26 Stat. 796.
"Where settlements with a view to pre-emption or
homestead have been, or shall hereafter be made, before the survey of
the lands in the field, which are found to have been made on sections
sixteen or thirty-six, those sections shall be subject to the claims of
such settlers; and if such sections, or either of them, have been or shall
be granted, reserved, or pledged for the use of schools or colleges
in the State or Territory in which they lie, other lands of equal acreage
are hereby appropriated and granted, and may be selected by said
State or Territory, in lieu of such as may be thus taken by pre-emption
or homestead settlers. And other lands of equal acreage are also
hereby appropriated and granted, and may be selected by said State
or Territory where sections sixteen or thirty-six are mineral land,
or are included within any Indian, military, or other reservation,
or are otherwise disposed of by the United States: .... "
21

22 21

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

vation or has disposed of them in some other way. It
should be observed that when dealing with the right of
the States to select lieu lands where homestead and preemption claims are involved, Congress first inserted language in the Act designed to create in individuals holding
such claims rights superior to those of the States to the
school sections upon which settlement before survey has
been made. But in dealing with the selection of lieu
lands where the Federal Government prior to survey has
included the designated school sections in a reservation
or has otherwise disposed of them, Congress did not find
it necessary first to create the power in the Federal Government to make such reservations or dispositions.
Rather, on the apparent assumption that such powers
had been retained by the Federal Government and were
presently existing, Congress merely provided for the selection of lieu lands by the States where upon survey it
is found that those powers have been exercised. It is
apparent that Congress intended that the Act of 1891
should apply to Wyoming as well as to the other schoolland States. -4 Indeed, Wyoming on at least two previous
occasions so contended and succeeded in obtaining benefits
under the Act.2" We need not now consider the effect
of the Act of 1891 insofar as it may be inconsistent with
the provisions of the Wyoming Enabling Act, for it is
our view that with respect to the problem of this case no
inconsistency exists. It is not without significance, also,
that in 1934, Congress, after having been fully apprised
of the administrative construction of the school-land provisions of the Wyoming Enabling Act, 21 which is in accord
with the construction which we have made, amended § 5
H. R. Rep. No. 2384, 51st Cong., 1st Sess.
Wyoming v. United States, 255 U. S. 489 (1921); State of
Wyoming, 27 L. D. 35.
21, H. R. Rep. 229, 73d Cong., 1st Sess.;
S. Rep. No. 10, 73d
Cong., 1st Sess.
24

25

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

of that Act but reenacted all the provisions of that section
which are pertinent to the present case."
Defendants' view that, by virtue of the language of
the Enabling Act, Congress extinguished the powers of
the Federal Government subsequently to dispose of the
unsurveyed school sections in the exercise of its governmental functions, admittedly would place Wyoming in
a favored position among the school-grant States. Such
a result does not accord with the congressional expectation
that the school grant should have "equal operation and
equal benefit in all the public land States and Territories." 28 Defendants suggest no special circumstances or
peculiar considerations of policy which convincingly indicate a purpose on the part of Congress to place Wyoming
on other than an equal footing with other States with
respect to the powers of the Federal Government in the
unsurveyed school sections.
Furthermore, one of the important recurring problems
faced by Congress during the period in which the Wyoming
Enabling Act was passed was the necessity of reserving
tracts of the public lands to accomplish such important
purposes as preserving the national forests and mineral
resources, establishing public parks, and the like. 9 Vesting in the State an immediate and irrevocable interest
in the school sections before such sections had been identified by survey would be to complicate the performance
of the Government's obligation with respect to the public
2748

Stat. 350.

Section 5 of the Enabling Act was amended so

as to permit the State to lease the school lands for periods of ten
years as contrasted to a five year limitation contained in the section
as originally enacted.
28 H. R. Rep. No. 2384, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., 1. S. Rep. No. 502,
51st Cong., 1st Sess., 1.
29 Thus the same volume of the Statutes at Large containing the
Wyoming Enabling Act also contains at least two pieces of such
legislation. 26 Stat. 478, 650.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

lands. That Congress intended such complication seems
most unlikely when it is observed that the policy underlying the grant of lands to the State for school purposes
could be achieyed without producing that result. Thus
§ 4 of the Enabling Act makes provision for indemnification to the State where the designated school sections are
disposed of for other purposes by authorizing the selection
of lands by the State in lieu thereof. Section 6 of the
Act of August 9, 1888,1 which was incorporated into
§ 4 of the Enabling Act "so far as applicable," specifically
provides for the selection of lieu lands where the school
sections "have been or shall hereafter be reserved for public
purposes."
It is significant that for a period extending over half a
century, the land decisions of the Department of the Interior have consistently taken the position that title to
unsurveyed school sections passes to the State only upon
completion of the survey, and prior to that time the Federal Government is not inhibited from making such reservations and dispositions of the lands as required by the
public interest and as authorized by applicable statutes.
Many of those decisions involved statutory language substantially identical to that in the Wyoming Enabling Act.31
We should be slow at this late date to upset the rulings ". . . of the department of the Government to which
is committed the administration of public lands." 32
For the reasons stated above, we hold that at the date
of her admission to the Union, Wyoming acquired no such
30 See note 7, supra.
31 South Dakota v. Riley, 34 L. D. 657; State of Montana, 38 L. D.
247; State of Utah, 53 L. D. 365. And see F. A. Hyde & Co., 37
L. D. 164; State of New Mexico, 52 L. D. 679. Also in accord are
decisions in Utah v. Work, 55 App. D. C. 372, 6 F. 2d 675 (1925);
Thompson v. Savidge, 110 Wash. 486, 188 P. 397 (1920).
32 California v. Deseret Water, Oil & Irrigation Co., 243 U. S. 415,
421 (1917).

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

455

Opinion of the Court.

interest in the lands in issue that could not be defeated
by the inclusion of those lands in a petroleum reserve by
the Federal Government acting prior to survey.
We also think that defendants' reliance on the Coleman
survey of 1892 as the basis of an indefeasible equitable
right to Section 36 is misplaced, and may be answered
briefly.
That survey was undertaken pursuant to a request from
the State to the United States Surveyor General that
Township 58 be surveyed and subdivided, in order to permit the State to make selections of school lands, and the
contract and instructions for the survey so directed. The
survey which was then made, however, actually fixed only
the boundaries of Township 58, and marked one-mile intervals on those boundaries, but did not subdivide the
township. Section 36 lies in the township's southeast
corner, and its southern and eastern boundaries are concurrent with part of the southern and eastern township
boundaries, but the northern and western section boundaries remained undetermined. This was not a completed
survey of Section 36."
Defendants no longer contend that it was. They argue
only that it "identified" Section 36, or made it "susceptible
of identification by protraction," sufficiently that the State
should in equity be held to have acquired vested rights in
the Section as of the date this survey was approved. They
claim support for this position in several decisions recognizing that the title of certain western railroads granted
lands by the United States vested when the line of route
was selected and a plan thereof filed, whether or not the
adjacent lands had then been surveyed. 4
3 R. S. 2395, 43 U. S. C. § 751. Barnhurst v. State of Utah, 30
L. D. 314; Harrisv. State of Minnesota, Copp L. L. (1875-82) 631.
34 Cf. Santa Fe Pac. R. Co. v. Lane, 244 U. S. 492 (1917); St. Paul
&Pac. R. Co. v. Northern Pac. R. Co., 139 U. S. 1 (1891); Grinnell v.
Chicago, Rock Island & Pac. R. Co., 103 U. S. 739 (1881).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

We find no merit in this argument. The railroad land
grant cases are not apropos. Not only do they deal with
statutes different from the one before us in the present
case, but also they have nothing to do with the identification of unsurveyed lands by the protraction of partial surveys. In the Morrisoncase "' this Court held a completed
but unapproved survey inadequate to vest any rights to
school lands. A fortiori, defendants are not benefited by
the Coleman survey.
For the foregoing reasons, defendants' exceptions to the
master's findings and conclusions in respect to title are
overruled.
Having decided that plaintiff has title to Section 36,
we now turn to the question of its right to recover a money
judgment because of the defendant Company's oil operations thereon.
It was shown that in 1917, under a lease from the State,
the Company entered Section 36 and drilled five wells,
some of which are still in production. For the period
from the Company's entry on the land until December
31, 1944,3" there was evidence of the amount and market
value of oil produced and of the capital and operating
expenses of this production, each by the month, and of
the collateral "steam earnings," the royalties and taxes
paid to the State, and the overhead expenses allocable
to this production, each by the year. 7 For the purpose
of proving the bad faith of the trespass, plaintiff offered
35

United States v. Morrison,supra,note 5.

36 Accounts for the period January 1, 1945, to date of hearing were
to be prepared and submitted later, along with those for any subsequent periods for which defendants might be liable.
37 The total of each of these items for the entire period was as follows: value of oil produced, $167,049.54; steam earnings, $1,267.99;
capital expenses, $118,628.84; operating expenses, $70,083.73; overhead expenses, $22,461.00; taxes, $4,317.40; royalties, $17,306.30. It
does not appear what the nature of the so-called "steam earnings"
was.

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

457

Opinion of the Court.

evidence tending to show that defendants knew of plaintiff's claim to the land and realized its superiority over
their own claim at least as early as 1929.
This last evidence the master refused to admit. He
thought that, in order to recover for a "bad faith" trespass,
plaintiff was required to put the question in issue by
alleging "bad faith" in the complaint, which it had not
done. He also thought that plaintiff's allegation of defendants' claim of right in Section 36 was, in effect, an
admission of defendants' good faith. Without having
tried the bad faith issue, the master stated that both
defendants sincerely believed in their asserted rights, and
made a finding of the State's good faith. From this he
concluded that plaintiff's recovery should be measured by
the gross proceeds realized on the operation, less the
proper expenses incurred.
From the other evidence heretofore mentioned, the master found that the total amount of the Company's gross
proceeds, including both the value of oil produced and
steam earnings, was $168,317.53, and that its total expenses were $232,797.27, including royalties paid in the
amount of $17,306.30.'
He held that all proven elements
of the Company's expenses except royalties were properly
deductible. As expenses so allowed had been about
$47,000.00 greater than gross proceeds, the master concluded that plaintiff should recover nothing.
Plaintiff excepts to these findings and conclusions in several respects. First, it maintains that the pleadings properly framed the issue of bad faith, and contends that the
master therefore erred in excluding evidence relating to
this issue, and in finding that either or both of the defendants had acted innocently.
38 The totals found by the master are the sums of the appropriate
individual items which were in evidence, and which were recited in
footnote 37. No question was raised as to the accuracy of any of
these figures.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

An agreed premise is found in the rule that one who
"wilfully" or "in bad faith" trespasses on the land of another, and removes minerals, is liable to the owner for
their full value computed as of the time the trespasser
converted them to his own use, by sale or otherwise, but
that an "innocent" trespasser, who has acted "in good
faith," may deduct from such value the expenses of extraction. 9 It is also clear that when suit is brought for the
value of minerals wrongfully removed from the plaintiff's
land, and the trespass and conversion are established, the
burden of pleading and proving good faith is on the defendant." The "good faith" contemplated by these rules
is something more than the trespasser's assertion of a
colorable claim to the converted minerals.41
Thus, in this case, plaintiff's allegation that defendants
claimed rights in Section 36, made as a basis for a prayer
to have title quieted in plaintiff, cannot be deemed equivalent to an admission of defendants' good faith. Plaintiff
also alleged its own title, the lack of any right or title in
defendants, that the Company was there engaged in the
production of oil, and that the value of the oil theretofore
extracted was in excess of $165,000. It then prayed for
a recovery of "the full value of all gas, oil, and other
39See Martel v.Hall Oil Co., 36 Wyo. 166, 178, 253 P. 862, 864, 255
P. 3 (1927); United States v. St. Anthony R. Co., 192 U. S. 524
(1904); Pine River Logging Co. v. United States, 186 U. S. 279
(1902); Wooden-ware Co. v. United States, 106 U. S. 432 (1882);
United States v. Homestake Mining Co., 117 F. 481 (C. C. A. 8th
1902); Winchester v. Craig, 33 Mich. 205 (1876); Livingstone v.
Rawyards Coal Co., 5 L. R. App. Cas. 25 (H. L. 1880); Summers,
Oil and Gas, §§ 23, 24.
40 Liberty Bell Gold Mining Co. v. Smuggler-Union M. Co., 203 F.
795, 802 (C. C. A. 8th 1913); Elkhorn-HazardCoal Co. v. Kentucky
River Coal Corp., 20 F. 2d 67, 71 (C. C. A. 6th 1927).
41 Gufjey v. Smith, 237 U. S. 101 (1915); Benson Mining Co. v.
Alta Mining Co., 145 U. S.428 (1892). Cf. Hall Oil Co. v. Barquin,
33 Wyo. 92, 137,237 P. 255, 270 (1925).

UNITED STATES v. WYOMING.
440

Opinion of the Court.

petroleum products extracted from said land by the defendants or either of them." In the answer, besides
claiming title and oil rights, defendants averred their good
faith belief that they had such rights, which plaintiff
traversed in a reply. We have no doubt that these pleadings put the question of defendants' good faith in issue.
Obviously, the master's statement in his report that the
defendants believed in their asserted rights is unwarranted
on the present record. We conclude, therefore, that the
master erred in excluding any competent evidence material
to the good faith issue, and in finding that either or both
defendants acted in good faith.
Second, plaintiff excepts to the master's failure, even
on the present record, to make findings of defendants' bad
faith and to recommend a decree awarding damages accordingly.42 It urges, as one ground for this exception
that defendants, having the burden of proof on that issue,
failed to introduce sufficient evidence to make a prima
facie showing of good faith.
For reasons already suggested, we need not consider
whether defendants carried that burden. The view that
the good faith issue was foreclosed in defendants' favor
was expressed by the master before any evidence had been
introduced, and consistently throughout the hearing.
Even if defendants had doubted the correctness of this
view, they were not bound to repudiate it and make an
offer of proof of good faith in order to have a trial of
the issue if the master should prove to be wrong.
As another ground, plaintiff urges that defendants have
at all times since the beginning of this trespass had constructive knowledge of plaintiff's title, and that either
they have "intentionally or negligently failed to ascertain
42 The measure of damages claimed by plaintiff's exceptions on
the theory about to be stated are, as against the Company, the full
proceeds of the oil plus "steam earnings," and as against the State,
the amount of royalties received.

755552 0-48---33

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

from the readily available public records who owned the
land," or they have acted "with full knowledge that the
section belonged to the United States."
It is clear, however, that constructive knowledge of the
owner's title does not demonstrate defendants' bad faith
as a matter of law.4 As to whether an intentional or
negligent failure to ascertain the true incidence of title
alone constitutes bad faith, we need not now decide, as no
such fact has been established.
Plaintiff's alternative contention that we should now
enter a finding of defendants' bad faith for the post-1929
period at least, because as to it "there is positive proof that
the Company knew . . . the United States, not Wyoming, owned the land," may be answered in the same way.
Plaintiff proffered evidence of such knowledge, but we
cannot say that this evidence amounted to conclusive
proof. We think the necessity of trying the issue of defendants' good faith throughout the entire period in dispute, preliminary to determining the measure of plaintiff's
recovery, cannot be avoided.
Third, plaintiff urges and we agree that the master
should make special findings-insofar as the parties request, and offer competent evidence to support them-as
to the value of the oil produced and the amount and nature
of any collateral proceeds from the operation, separately,
and as to the amount of each item of income and expense
by the month or year. Such action should enable the
Court to dispose of the case on the next hearing, regardless
of any revisions it might make in the master's findings,
conclusions, or recommended decree.
In its exceptions to the master's report and its argument
here, plaintiff has raised several other questions, the materiality of each of which depends on whether the trespass
43Gufley

v. Smith, supra,237 U. S. at 118.

461

COPE v. ANDERSON.
Syllabus.

440

was committed in good faith. Obviously, such questions
must remain moot until this issue is decided.
The case is recommitted to the master for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.

COPE v. ANDERSON, RECEIVER.
NO.

593.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.*

Argued April 28, 1947.-Decided June 2, 1947.
1. Within the meaning of the Ohio "borrowing statute," the "cause of
action" in a suit brought in Ohio against residents of that State to
enforce their statutory double liability on shares of an insolvent
Kentucky national bank "arose" in Kentucky, and the applicable
statute of limitations was the five-year statute of Kentucky. Pp.
464-468.
2. Within the meaning of the Pennsylvania "borrowing statute," the
"cause of action" in a suit brought in Pennsylvania against a resident of that State to enforce a statutory double liability on shares
of an insolvent Kentucky national bank "arose" in Kentucky, and
the applicable statute of limitations was the five-year statute of
Kentucky. P. 468.
3. The national bank having been authorized to do its banking business in a Kentucky city and not having done business elsewhere,
the fact that its shares were held in the portfolio of a Delaware corporation did not make its business any the less local. P. 467.
4. No federal statute having fixed any period of limitations in respect
of suits to enforce the statutory double liability of shareholders of
insolvent national banks, the statute of limitations of the State in
which the suit is brought applies. P. 463.
5. Where the concurrent jurisdiction of equity to enforce a legal
obligation derives only from the scope of the relief sought and the
multitude of the parties sued, equity will withhold relief if the
applicable statute of limitations would bar the concurrent legal
remedy. Pp. 463-464.
*Together with No. 656, Anderson, Receiver, v. Helmers et al., on
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

