OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

cases. The Belo case, which carries its own refutation in
its dissenting opinion, should therefore be overruled.
Otherwise we shall be perpetuating and augmenting the
unrealities and confusion which have marked the application of the doctrine of that case. See Feldman, "Algebra
and the Supreme Court," 40 Ill. L. Rev. 489; "Legality of
Wage Readjustment Plans under the Overtime Provision
of the Fair Labor Standards Act," 13 U. of Chi. L. Rev.
486; 44 Mich. L. Rev. 866.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK ET
CHASE NATIONAL BANK ET AL.

AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 371.

Argued February 7,1947.-Decided April 14, 1947.

The principal asset of a bankrupt estate was an undivided interest
in coal lands, operated in part by lessees and producing substantial
royalties. More than four months prior to the adjudication in
bankruptcy, two creditors had obtained judgments against the
bankrupt, which constituted first and second liens on the interest
in these lands. Subsequently, a plan suggested by the attorney
for the trustee and certain general creditors was adopted, whereby
in consideration of the secured creditors forbearing to press their
claims, the estate was divided into two funds: a real estate fund,
and a general fund including royalties, etc. The first fund was
to go to the first judgment creditor, the second fund was to be
divided pro rata among all creditors. After the plan had been
in operation for more than twelve years, a general creditor whose
attorney had proposed the plan petitioned the bankruptcy court
for a decree to the effect that the two judgment creditors had
waived their liens by sharing in distributions from the general
fund. Held:
1. Upon the particular facts of this case, the liens are declared
valid and in existence, notwithstanding the failure to follow the
provisions of § 57 (h) of the Bankruptcy Act, and notwithstanding the distribution of dividends contrary to § 65 (a). Pp. 35-39.

UNITED STATES BANK v. CHASE BANK.
28

29

Counsel for Parties.

(a) Whether a secured creditor's participation in distributions from the general assets of a bankrupt estate on the basis
of his full claim constitutes a waiver of his lien and an election
to be treated as an unsecured creditor, depends upon the circumstances surrounding the receipt of the dividends. In exceptional
cases, the circumstances may demonstrate the continued vitality
of the security as well as indicate the inequity of declaring the
security forfeited. Pp. 35-36.
(b) In rare cases, where there is a reasonable doubt as to
whether a waiver has occurred, a careful examination must be
made, in the light of recognized principles of equity, to determine
upon what conditions the dividends from the general assets were
distributed to the secured creditor. P. 36.
(c) The judgment lien creditors having received dividends
from the general fund in good faith and without intent to waive
their liens, there being no equitable reason why the liens should,
be declared forfeited, the general creditor whose counsel recommended the plan and acquiesced in its operation being equitably
estopped to object to the validity of the liens on the basis of the
operation of the plan, and there being no evidence that any permanent injury to any general creditor resulted from the operation
of the plan, the equities of this case require that the liens be held
valid and in existence. Pp. 36-39.
2. In view of the fact that the bankruptcy proceedings have
been unduly prolonged for over twenty years, the bankruptcy court
should now take steps to wind up the estate in accordance with
the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 39.
155 F. 2d 755, reversed.
In a proceeding in bankruptcy, a general creditor petitioned for a decree to the effect that two secured credi-

tors had waived their liens by sharing in distributions
from the general assets of the bankrupt estate. The District Court granted the petitions, 56 F. Supp. 190; but,
on rehearing, denied them, 61 F. Supp. 151. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed.

granted certiorari.

155 F. 2d 755.

329 U. S. 699.

This Court

Reversed and re-

manded, p. 39.

Robert I. Rudolph argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

William Dean Embree argued the cause and filed a
brief for the Chase National Bank, respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A problem arising under the Bankruptcy Act is presented by the unique facts of this case.
On June 10, 1926, Harvey C. Stineman was adjudicated a bankrupt upon a voluntary petition and the case
was referred to a referee. The principal asset of the bankrupt estate was an undivided one-sixth interest in a large
acreage of valuable coal lands, a large portion of which
was operated by lessees and was producing substantial royalties. The value of the interest of the bankrupt estate
in this asset is alleged to have been appraised at $90,000.
More than four months prior to the date when the
petition was filed and the adjudication made, the United
States National Bank of Johnstown, Pa., and the First
National Bank of South Fork, Pa., had procured judgments against Stineman. These two judgments constituted first and second liens, respectively, on Stineman's
interest in the coal lands. This interest had no other
encumbrances upon it.
On January 8, 1927, the Johnstown bank filed its secured
claim in the bankruptcy proceedings in the amount of
$10,000, reciting as its security the first lien on the interest
in the coal lands. This claim was allowed. Subsequently, in 1932, the Johnstown bank filed an amended
claim in the amount of $13,685, interest accruing after
bankruptcy having been added to the original claim. The
amended claim was allowed in the amount filed and
formed the basis for the bank's participation in the dividends from the general fund, mentioned hereinafter. A
court order in 1944 reduced this claim to $10,000.
The South Fork bank, on June 29, 1926, filed its secured
claim with the referee for $11,290, reciting the second

UNITED STATES BANK v. CHASE BANK.
28

31

Opinion of the Court.

lien as its security, along with unsecured claims for
$7,173.45. Dividends from the general fund were subsequently paid to the bank on the basis of the full amount
of all its claims, $18,463.45.
Numerous general, unsecured claims were filed by other
creditors, approximating $225,000 in amount. Included
among these was the claim of the Chase National Bank of
the City of New York, a claim which was allowed in the
amount of $55,231.98.
The referee held a meeting of the creditors on December
31, 1929, more than three and a half years after the adjudication. The motive for this meeting appears to have
been the fact that the Johnstown and South Fork banks,
the judgment lien creditors, were pressing for payment
of their secured claims. This meeting was attended by
the bankrupt, the trustee in bankruptcy and representatives of the two judgment creditors, the Chase National
Bank and certain other general creditors. Apparently not
all of the general creditors appeared at this meeting. The
consensus of opinion among those present was that the
real estate had a value in excess of the liens but that "if the
lien creditors foreclosed upon their liens, little, if anything, would be left for general creditors."
One of the attorneys present, P. J. Little, then made
a suggestion. Mr. Little at this time was serving as
counsel for the trustee, the Chase National Bank and several other general creditors. His suggestion was "that
under the law the estate should be divided into two items;
one item showing funds arising wholly from real estate
which does not include any of the leases or the funds from
any of the leases; the other fund should be made up of
all royalties, rentals, or dividends on stocks or bonds.
The first fund to go to the first judgment creditor, the
second fund to be divided pro rata among all the
creditors."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The parties apparently agreed to this proposal. Although no supporting order of the referee appears in the
record, the administration of the bankrupt estate proceeded as if a supporting order had been entered. The
two judgment lien creditors assented to this course of
events and it is asserted that all the creditors understood
that the liens were to remain intact until the underlying
claims had been paid in full.
Thereafter, four dividends were declared and distributed from the real estate fund, while seven dividends were
declared and distributed from the general fund. The
Johnstown bank received at least $1,364.76 from the real
estate fund; the South Fork bank appears to have received
nothing from that fund. Both of these banks shared with
the other creditors in the seven distributions from the
general fund, the Johnstown bank receiving $2,435.06 and
the South Fork bank, $3,285.35. No exceptions were ever
taken to any of the various orders of distributions. In
addition, these two banks have carefully revived their
judgments during each five-year period, making the trustee in bankruptcy a party to the proceedings.
In October, 1942, the Chase National Bank filed petitions for a decree to the effect that the two banks had
waived their liens by sharing in the distributions from
the general fund along with the general creditors and that
the Johnstown bank should be compelled to return the
$1,364.76 it had received from the real estate fund. The
referee, however, held that both the Johnstown and South
Fork banks were entitled to maintain their positions as
lien creditors and at the same time participate in the
distributions from the general fund. The District Court
reversed the referee's decision, feeling that participation
in distributions from both the real estate and general
funds was contrary to accepted bankruptcy practice. In
re Stineman, 56 F. Supp. 190. On rehearing, the District

UNITED STATES BANK v. CHASE BANK.
28

33

Opinion of the Court.

Court changed its mind; it became convinced that the
Chase National Bank had recommended the arrangement,
had acquiesced in its execution and was now estopped
from objecting. In re Stineman, 61 F. Supp. 151. The
Third Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, holding that
the parties had completely disregarded the pertinent provisions of the Bankruptcy Act and that the Johnstown
and South Fork banks had waived their liens and were
entitled to share in the bankruptcy estate only as general
creditors. In re Stineman, 155 F. 2d 755.
Sections 65 (a) and 57 (h) of the Bankruptcy Act axe
the ones pertinent to this case. Section 65 (a) provides:
"Dividends of an equal per centum shall be declared and
paid on all allowed claims, except such as have priority
or are secured." 11 U. S. C. § 105 (a). Section 57 (h)
provides: "The value of securities held by secured creditors shall be determined by converting the same into
money according to the terms of the agreement pursuant
to which such securities were delivered to such creditors,
or by such creditors and the trustee by agreement, arbitration, compromise or litigation, as the court may direct,
and the amount of such value shall be credited upon such
claims, and a dividend shall be paid only on the unpaid
balance. Such determination shall be under the supervision and control of the court." 11 U. S. C. § 93 (h).
Under these provisions, there are several avenues of
action open to a secured creditor of a bankrupt. See 3
Collier on Bankruptcy (14th ed.) pp. 149-157, 255-259.
(1) He may disregard the bankruptcy proceeding, decline
to file a claim and rely solely upon his security if that security is properly and solely in his possession. In re Cherokee
Public Service Co., 94 F. 2d 536; Ward v. FirstNat. Bank,
202 F. 609. (2) He must file a secured claim, however,
if the security is within the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court and if he wishes to retain his secured status, inas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

much as that court has exclusive jurisdiction over the
liquidation of the security. Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber
Co., 282 U. S. 734. (3) He may surrender or waive his
security and prove his entire claim as an unsecured one.
In re Medina Quarry Co., 179 F. 929; Morrison v. Rieman,
249 F. 97. (4) He may avail himself of his security and
share in the general assets as to the unsecured balance.
Merrill v. National Bank of Jacksonville, 173 U. S. 131;
Ex parte City Bank, 3 How. 292,315.
Section 57 (h) is a codification of this fourth possibility.
It permits the secured creditor to receive dividends along
with the general creditors only on the balance remaining
after the value of the security has been determined and
deducted from the claim. This rule, commonly known
as the bankruptcy rule, is designed to preclude any unwarranted advantage from accruing to the secured creditor. Grounded upon the statutory principle of equality
and ratable distribution, it prohibits the secured creditor
from reaping the whole benefit of his security while simultaneously taking dividends from the general assets on
the basis of his entire claim as if he had no security. This
rule differs from the one in equity, which allows the secured creditor to receive dividends on the full amount of
his claim, crediting all dividends received and reserving
the security against any deficiency. Merrill v. National
Bank of Jacksonville, supra. And see 3 Collier on Bankruptcy (14th ed.) p. 153; Hanson, "The Secured Creditor's
Share of an Insolvent Estate," 34 Mich. L. Rev. 309;
12 Ford. L. Rev. 77.
It is argued that the plan adopted in this case cannot be
sanctioned under the foregoing principles. This plan allegedly called for the use of something similar to the equity
rule of distribution. The judgment lien creditors were to
retain their liens while sharing fully in the dividends from
the general funds as if they had no liens, crediting the

UNITED STATES BANK v. CHASE BANK.
28

35

Opinion of the Court.

dividends received against their claims. But § 57 (h) is
said plainly to outlaw the use of that rule; if the judgment
lien creditors wished to retain their liens, they could share
in the dividends only to the extent that their claims
exceeded the value of their liens. Since they did not follow the provisions of § 57 (h), the conclusion is reached
that they have waived their liens and must now be
considered solely as unsecured creditors.
At this point it should be noted that the incomplete
record before us fails to reveal the value of the interest
in the coal lands to which the liens attached. The judgment lien creditors claim that the value was fixed at
$90,000, but no such valuation appears in the record. That
it might be less than $90,000 is indicated by the statement
of these creditors that if they had foreclosed on their combined liens of $21,290, "there would have been little, if
anything, left for the general creditors." But in the
setting of this case, we believe it immaterial whether
the value of the interest in the coal lands was greater
or less than the amount of the secured claims. In either
event, the problem before us concerns itself with the
present validity of the liens. Has the conduct of the
judgment lien creditors been such as to constitute a waiver
of their judgment liens? That question we answer in the
negative.
The fact that the judgment lien creditors received general dividends contrary to the scheme of § 57 (h) does not
necessarily mean that they thereby waived their liens.
Nothing in the language of § 57 (h) or of any other section
of the Act makes such a receipt the necessary equivalent
of a waiver. It is generally true that participation by a
secured creditor in distributions from the general assets on
the basis of his full claim indicates a waiver of the security
and an election to be treated as an unsecured creditor.
See In re O'Gara Coal Co., 12 F. 2d 426. But that is not
755552 0-48-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

an invariable result flowing from the application of any
rigid statutory rule. The result depends, rather, upon the
circumstances surrounding the receipt of the dividends.
And in exceptional cases, those circumstances may demonstrate the continued vitality of the security as well as indicate that it would be inequitable to declare the security
forfeited. See Wuerpel v. Commercial Germania Trust
& Savings Bank, 238 F. 269; Maxwell v. McDaniels, 195
F. 426; Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Coggin, 78
F. 2d 471; Standard Oil Co. v. Hawkins, 74 F. 395.
In the rare case where there is reasonable doubt as to
whether a waiver has occurred, a careful examination must
therefore be made to determine the conditions under which
the dividends from the general assets were distributed to
the secured creditor. And that examination must be made
in the light of the recognized principles of equity. It has
long been established that "courts of bankruptcy are essentially courts of equity, and their proceedings inherently
proceedings in equity." Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292
U. S. 234, 240; Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295, 304. In
determining whether a waiver of liens has taken place, the
bankruptcy court must accordingly look to the equities
involved as well as to the intention of the parties. A
waiver may be inequitable or unfair to the secured creditor; the receipt of dividends may not have caused permanent injury to the unsecured creditors; the dividends
may have been received under a mistake of law or fact
or pursuant to court approval; the objecting party may be
estopped from questioning the validity of the liens. Such
equitable considerations may well be decisive of a waiver
or forfeiture in a particular case.
It is at once evident in this case that the judgment lien
creditors received dividends from the general fund in good
faith and without any intent to waive their liens. The
principal asset of the estate was the interest in the coal
lands and it was that interest to which the liens attached.

UNITED STATES BANK v. CHASE BANK.
28

37

Opinion of the Court.

Representatives of various general creditors believed that
it would be to their advantage to have this interest remain
intact, without being liquidated in whole or in part in
order to satisfy the liens. Their thought was that by
maintaining undiminished the royalties and rentals from
this interest the unsecured claims could more rapidly be
satisfied. To that end it was proposed that the judgment
lien creditors refrain from immediate liquidation of their
claims and share in the dividends from the general fund,
a fund which included the royalties and rentals from the
interest in the coal lands. The judgment lien creditors
accepted this proposal, being willing to postpone any
immediate realization of their security. But they did so
with the distinct understanding that their liens were not
forfeited and they took pains to renew the underlying
judgments every succeeding five years in order to keep
the liens alive. There is thus absent any element of
an intentional waiver of the liens or any action inconsistent with a desire to retain the liens in the circumstances
surrounding the receipt of the dividends by the judgment
lien creditors. Cf. Thomas v. Taggart, 209 U. S. 385;
In re Kaplan& Myers, 241 F. 459.
Nor do we perceive any equitable reason why these liens
should be declared forfeited. The incomplete record in
this case does not indicate whether the referee or the bankruptcy court ever gave formal approval to the agreement
under which the judgment lien creditors received dividends
along with the unsecured creditors. But the bankruptcy
proceedings went forward for more than twelve years as if
such approval had beern given, authorization being given
for the distribution of numerous dividends pursuant to the
plan. Certainly the agreement had the implied, if not the
express, blessing of the referee and the bankruptcy court.
Hence the judgment lien creditors cannot be accused of
having participated in a plan which was unknown to, or
disapproved by, those responsible for the proper admin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

istration of the proceedings. A forfeiture of the liens
would only penalize unfairly the judgment lien creditors,
who joined the plan in good faith and without any apparent intention .of harming others or of securing any undue
advantage for themselves.
It is further significant that the plan was proposed by
an attorney for Chase National Bank, the general creditor
now objecting. Apparently not all the general creditors
were present or represented at the meeting on December
31, 1929, when the proposal was made and accepted. But
the agreement, with its various dividend distributions
taking place between 1935 and 1942, must have come to
the attention of all the general creditors sooner or later;
yet none of them raised any objection to the various distributions or to the agreement during this long period
of time. No reason suggests itself why any of these general creditors should now be permitted to question the
dividends received in the past by the judgment lien creditors or to demand that the liens be declared forfeited
because of the receipt of such dividends. Especially is
this so as to Chase National Bank. As the District Court
noted, 61 F. Supp. at 152, its counsel recommended and
had full knowledge of the agreement; and Chase had
knowledge of the subsequent dividend distributions, to
which it did not demur. At this late stage, it is equitably
estopped from raising any objection to the validity of the
liens on the basis of the operation of the plan which it proposed. Cf. Merchants Bank v. Sexton, 228 U. S. 634;
In re National Public Service Corporation,68 F. 2d 859;
In re American S. S. Nay. Co., 14 F. Supp. 106.
Moreover, the record does not indicate that any permanent injury to Chase National Bank or to the other general
creditors resulted from the operation of the plan. The
whole scheme was adopted with the idea that they would
be benefited and we cannot say that this purpose has failed

UNITED STATES BANK v. CHASE BANK.
28

39

Opinion of the Court.

of achievement. Having proposed and acquiesced in the
plan, the Chase National Bank cannot now be heard to
complain of any resulting injury, especially an injury that
is not apparent in the record.
We conclude from these various considerations that the
liens should be held to be valid and in existence despite
the failure to follow the provisions of § 57 (h) and despite
the distribution of dividends contrary to § 65 (a). There
was never any intention to waive the security and those
who might have objected to the distributions are now
estopped. But in view of the fact that the bankruptcy
proceedings have been unduly prolonged for over twenty
years, the bankruptcy court should now take steps to wind
up the estate in accordance with the provisions of the
Bankruptcy Act. Those provisions are designed to bring
about the speedy distribution of the bankrupt's assets, a
distribution of the type which definitely has not occurred
in this case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the case is remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

is of opinion that the order

of the District Court should be restored on the ground that
the creditors entered into an agreement which was not
objectionable under § 57 (h) of the Bankruptcy Act,
whereby the liens of the petitioners were saved.
MR. JUSTICE

JACKSON

concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS

dissents.

