FEBRUARY,

803.

34

i der of Mr. Archibald Gardner, three hundred and thirty
fix .7. dollars, value received."

LND,

A. Lindo.

V.
G"ARDNR.

Peacock, for plaintiff in error, was about to produce
point, when he was ftopped by
authorities on the firft
Chafe, juftice, who faid, that an ac7ion of debt will not lie
in Maryland upon a promifory note.

No oppofition being made on the part of the defendant
in error, judgment was afterwards reverfed without argumentif
HODGSON v.,DEXTER.

THIS was an a&ion of covenant brought by

FIODCsON

't.
Jofeph Hodgfon againft Samuel Dexter, late fecretary at
war, for not keeping in good repair, and for not delivering D XTER.
up in like good repair at the end of the term, certain premifes which had been leafed by the plaintiff to the de- A pubcjc agent
the governfendant, for the purpofe of offices for the war department; of
ment, contraathe buildings having been deftroyed by fire during the ing for the ufe

term.

The lcafc was in thefe words,

of government,
isnotI erfonally
liable, although
the contra& be
under

itfeal.

" Thi indenture, made the i 4 th day of Auguft, in the Q-ere. What
be faia to
hall
" year of our Lord one thodfand eight hundred,P between be
the adt of
f"Jofeph Hodgfon of the 'city of Wafhington and terri- God; and fha;
" tory of Columbia, of the one part, and Samuel Dexter inevktable afu.
cc

of the fame place, fecretary of war, of the other part, ally?

c"witneffeth, that the faid Jofeph Hodgfon, for and in
Iceonfideration of the fum of four hundred dollars, cur"c rent money of the United States, to him in hand paid
cc by thefizid Samuel Dexter, at or before the fealing and
cc delivery of thefe prefents, the receipt whereof is hereby
ic acknowledged, hath demifed, granted, and to farm let,
"c and by thefe prefents, doth demife, grant, and to farm
cc let, to thefaid Samuel Dexter and hisfuccors, all that

it the three ftory meffuage or.tenement, ere&ed and built
SSee Note B. ;n theAppendix.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LIQDGoN
.v.
DEXTER.

I

on part of lot number 14 in fquare number 75, fituate,
" on the Pennfylvania avenue in the city of W~fhington
cc

"

aforefaid, together with the back ground and improve-

ments; running from the faid meffuage (fronting 26
feet) in parallel lines down to. lot number 12, on faid
"fquare, being the premifes next adjoining the meffuage
" or tenement now in the occupation of Mr. Jonathan
" Jackfon, with the improvements and appurtenances
-c thereto belonging, or appertaining, to have and to hold
" the faid denaifed premifes unto him, the faid Samuel

"

"

Dexter and hisfice!/rs, from the day of the date hereof,

for and during, and unto the full end and term of eight
it calendar months from thence next enfuing and fully to
" be complete and ended. And the faid Jofeph Hodgfon
" for himfelf, his heirs, executors, adminiftrators and af"'figns, doth hereby covenant, promife and agree to and
" with the faid Samuel Dexter and hisfuccefors, that he,
" thefaid Samuel Dexter and hisfuccefors, ihall and may
"peaceably and quietly have, hold, ufe, occupy, poffefs
4 and enjoy the above demifld premifes for and during
" the term granted thereof, without the let, fuit, trouble,
" moleftation or evidion of him, the faid Jofeph Hodgfon,
" or his heirs or affigns, or of any other perfon or perfon;
C whatfoever lawfully claiming or to claim by, from, un" der* or in truft for him or them. And thefaid Samuel
"Dexter for himfelf and his fucce//rs, doth hereby cove' nant, promife and agree to and with the faid- Jofeph
" Hodgfon, his heirs and affigns, that he the faid Samuel
"

"Dexter

and hisfucced'ors, flall and will at all times during

" the faid term, keep, or caufe to be kept, in good and fuf" ficient repair, the faid demifed premifes, inevitable cafuSaties

and ordinary decay excepted ; and the fame, fo well

and fufficiently kept in repair, flall and will at the end
",.of the faid term, yield and furrender up to hifn the faid
"Jofeph Hodgfon, his heirs and aifigns. In witnef$
whereof, the faid parties have hereunto interchangeably
" fet their hands and feals, the day and year firft above
written.
Seal.
JOsEPH IHODGSON, Seal.
SAMUEL DEXTER,

"Signed, fealed and delivered
" in the prefence of
,,"John Goulding.,
" S. Le-wis'.iu ."

FEBRUARY, 1803.

347

The declaration contained two counts. The firft al- Honecso.i
I.
leged the breach, thus, " but hath broken the fame in this,
it to wit, that during the faid term of eight calendar DFXTER.
1 months, he did not keep or caufe to be kept the faid def mifed premifes in good and futficient repair, inevitable
cafualties and ordinary decay excepted; and that he
" hath not, at the end of the faid term, yielded and fur-i
" rendered up to the plaintiff, the fame, fo well and fufficiently kept in repair." The fecond count alleged
that the defendant hath not obferved and kept his covenant aforefaid, in this, to wit, " that he did not keep or
caufe to be kept, the faid derifed premifes in good andfufliciett repair, inevitable cafu alties and ordinary decay
" excepted, but that the fame, by an evitable tafualty, to
"wit, by fire, were deltroyed, confumed and burnt, during
1 the faid term of eight calendar months, to wit, on or
" about the eighth day of November i8co, and that the
" faid fire, and evitable cafutalty, was occafioned and took
" place from negligence, and from the adl: or ads of one
" or more evil difpofed perfons." " And after the faid fire,
" and after the expiration of the faid term, the faid defen-.
" dant did not fo yield and furrender up the faid premifes
i according to the tenor and effe& of his faid covenant."
-To the plaintiff's damage ioooo dollars.
The defendant, after oyer, pleaded in bar, ift. " That
before the expiration of the faid term of eight calendar
4 months in the faid writing mentioned, viz. on the 8th
"cof November i8oo, the faid demifed premifes, again3f
"(

cc the vill, and 'without the negligence, or other dlefult ofhinj
" the/aid Dexter, 'were burnedand cotnftmed byfire happening
",fromfome caufe to thefaid Dexter then and yet 'wholly un-

known. And the faid Dexter further faith, that faving
' and excepting only the damage occafioned by the fame"
iburning and confuming, ie, the faid Dexter, hath, at
"1all times, during the faid term of eight calendar months,
" kept, and caufed to be kept, in good and fufficient re" pair the faid demifed premifes; and that he hath, at
" the end of the faid term, yielded and furrendered up to
- the plaintiff the faid demifed premifes, fo well and fufc ficiently kept in repair, faving, and excepting only the
-damage occafioned by the burning and confuming
aforefaid, and this the faid Dexter is ready to ven"

4(fy,"p &C.

SUPREME COURT U- S.
HonosoN

To this plea, there was a general demurrer, and joinder.

IT.

DPxTER.

To thefecond, third,andfifth pleas, there were iffues in
fact. Thefourth plea was as follows, " that on the i 5 th

v

4' of

May x8oo, the prefident of the United States, for the
time then being, in purfuance of authority given to
him by law, did order and direa the various offices belonging to the feveral executive departments of the United States, of which, the department of war then was,
" and yet is, one, to be removed to the city of Wafhing" ton on the firft
day of June, then next enfuing ; and
- that in obedience to the fame order and dirction, the
46 various offices of the department of war aforefaid were
" removed to the 'faid city of Wafhington on the faid firft
" day of June, and that thereby it became proper and ne" ceffary, that a fuitable building fhould be hired, in
" which, the faid offices of the faid department of war'
"might be holden andkept, and for this purpofe, and forno
" other p- pofe whatever, the building, mentioned in the
" indenture aforefaid, was, by the faid indenture, leafed
cc to the faid Dexter ; and chat, at the time of executing
c the writing aforefaid, he was fecretary of the department
" of war, and in that capacity did make and execute the
" fame, and that before the expiration of the faid tern of
" eight calendar months, viz. on the ift day of January
CC 8o, he, the faid Dexter, at Wafhington aforefaid, re" figned the office of fecretary of the department of war,
" and from and after that time, ceafed to hold the fame
" office, and until this time, he hath never holden the fame;
1 and further, that on the fifth-day ofMarch, in the year
9 !aft mentioned, Henry Dearborn, efquire, was there du, ly appointed and commiffioned as fecretary of the de" partment of war, and then and there accepted of the
"c fame office, and hath ever fince held the fame ; and he,
c the faid Dearborn, now is, and ever fince his acceptance
" of the faid office of fccretary of war as aforefaid, hath
" been the lawful ficc5//or of him, the faid Dexter, in the
faid office ; and this, the faid Dexter is ready to veri"
4
"
"

"

fy," &c.

To which plea, the plaintiff replied, " protefting that
the faid Dexter did not, in his capacity of fecretary of
war, fign, fieal, execute and deliver the indenture of
9'leafe aforefald exhibited, yet, by way of repiication, h
"
"

FEBRUARY, 1803.
faith, that although the faid Dexter ceafed to be fecre" tary of war on the ift day of January i8oi, and that on
4 the 5 th day of March, in the fame'year, a certain Henry
, Dearborn became his fucceffor, duly appointed fecretary
"Cof the department of war, and ftill remains fuch, yet
" that the houfe and premifes, in the leafe afo'refaid men"tioned, were burnt down and confumed by fire arifing
"from within the fame, from the negligence or default,
"not of the faid Dexter, but of fome perfon unknown,
during the term aforefaid, viz. on the 8th of November
iI8oo, while the faid Dexter was fecretary of war, and
*'whilft he had poffeffion of the faid premifes, and before
" the appointment of the faid Dearborn ; and that neither
" the faid Dexter, nor any other perfon, hath, during the
," continuance of the faid leafe, or at any time, built up
4 and repaired the faid premifes; and this, the faid Hodg4, fon is ready to verify," &c.

$'

To this replication, there was a general demurrer and
joinder.
The 6th plea was, "9that on the tsh day of May 18oo,
the prefident of the United States, for the time then
" being, in purfuance of authority given to him by law,"
ordered the executive offices to be removed to Wafhington,
&c. as ftated in the fourth plea, " and that it became
" proper and necefl'ary that a fuitable building fhould be
" hired in which the feveral offices of the department of
"war aforefaid might be holden and kept, land that for
"theft purpofes, and for no other purpofe 'whatever," the
buildings &c. " were by the faid indenture leafed to the
" faid Dexter by the faid Hodgfon, and that at the time
,4 when the faid Dexter executed the indenture aforefaid,
" he wasfecretary of thefaid
&c.department o[ 'war; and this
"he-is ready to verify,"
"

To this there was a general demurrer and ioinder.
Upon thefe demurrers the judgment below wa$ againft
the plaintiff, who thereupon fued out the prefent writ of
error.
Martin, attorneygeneralof Maryland, and .Key, for plain..
tf in error.

HODCSON

,v
DEXTEt.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Dewder, and Matin, attorney of United States fir the
doftria of Columbia, for defindant.

HODOSON

I.
DEXTER.

J

Key made three points.
ift. That the defendant is individually and perfonally
liable and bound to the performance of the covenant in
the indenture contained, by him executed, and on which
the fuit is brought.
2d. That the defendant's firif plea is bad in law, is argumentative, and does not put in ifue matters competent
to bar the plaintiff's ation.
3d. That the defendant's fourth plea is bad in fubifanee,
is no bar, and wants form.
Yft. The fixth plea and demurrer are calculated to bring
i to iew the queftion whether the defendant has bound
himfelf perfonally to the performance of the covenant.
'Although a public agent is not generally liable for contra&s made by him in that capacity; ftill he is capable of
binding himfelf as well as his government, by ufing apt
words for that purpofe.
This cfe is not of importance from any general prineiples which it will eftablifh, The decifion mulr depend
upon the expreffions and operation of the indenture of
leafe.
The defendant has ufed flrong obligatory expreffions,
of plain unequivocal import. - And the faid Samuel
"Dexter for himfel/; and his fucceffors, doth hereby cove"nant, prom~fe and agree to and with the faid Jofeph'
"Hodgfon his heirs and affigns." To weaken the force of
thefe expreffions it is faid that he only intended to bind
himfelf in his official chara&er as fecretary at war, firft,
becaufe he is Qlyled in the premifes,fecretaryat 'var ; 2dly.
becaufe the term furce/ors is ufed throughout the inftru.
ment; 3dly, becaufe the words "faid Samuel Dexter,"
and "4ad
parties have hereunto fet their hands and reals,"
refer to.Samuel Dexter in tle official charaater in which
.he is firft, named in the premifes.

FEBRUARY, 1803.
ift. As to the ftyling him, fecretary at war, in the Hoosol
premifes, it is only a defcription of the perfon, defgnatio
-v.
DIXTER.
perfome.
It is the office of the premifes to identify the contra&ing parties, and it is moft common to ufe any honourable
title which they 'may enjoy. It is not in the preamble
that we are to look for the force of the expreffions of the
covenant, but in the covenant itfelf. It is a rule of con.
ftrudion that when-obligatory words, of plain unequivocal
meaning, are ufed, you can not refort to other parts of
the in ftrument to contradi& them. But when equivocal
or doubtful words are ufed, you may. A party ufing
expteffiens that legally bind him, is efcopped to fay he did
n6t intend to be bound in his individual capacity.
The word chirnfef" is to be taken feparately from the
words f' his fucceffors," and each is to be applied to the
obligatory words of the covenant; reddendaJingulafinguli.

The faid Samuel Dexter covenants for himfelf, and for his
fucceffors He covenants that he will furrendnr the prc,.
jnifes in good repair; and if he does not fo furrender
them, he covenants that they, hixfucqefors,- will. Words
can not be ftronger than thofe which he has ufed.
2dly. As to the word " fucceffiors." Mr. Dexter can
have no fucceffors, in the legal fenfe of the word. It is
true that Mr. Dearborn filled the office poflerior to Mr.
Dexter, and hence, in pbint of time, fucceded him, and
was in that fenfe, his fucceffor . but he is not his fucceffor
in any known legal fenfe of the word. There is no legal connexion between them. Mr. Dexter was not competent to bind his fucceflbr in any manner. He was not
a corporation fole; and there is no law of the United
States which authorizes him to bind his fucceffor. The
word, " fucceffors," has no operation whatever. Mr.
Dearborn was not obliged to occupy the houfe, nor would
an aaion have been maintainable againft him for the rent.
If he had been difturbed Li the pofflffion, he could have
had no aaion upon the covenant; if he had been oufted,
he could not have fupported an ejeament. Even if Mr.
Dexter had been a corporation fole,. his fucceffors would
not be bound. No chattel can be limited to the fucceffors of a corporation fole; but it wilJ go to the executor,
and not to the fucceffor.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
-HotosoN
"

D.XTER.

'

V

'

If thefe obfervations are corre&, then the word cc fucceffors," is furpluffage, and the leafe enured to Mr.

Dexter in his individual capacity , but this point will be
refumed.
As to the words " faid Samuel Dexter," and
parties have hereunto fet their hands and feals ;,'
they can have no operation to let in Mr. Dexter's official
chara&er. Either he bound himfelf in his official capacity, or as an individual.
3 dy.

"faid

Nothing can be inferred from the word cc faid," but
that it related to him in one capacity or the other ; and
in which, is the very queftion before the court.
Let us now examine this infirument upon principle.
if. With reference to the perfon executing it.
as to the legal operation of its expreffions.

2dly.

All agents, a~ling as fuch, for avowed principals, only
bind their principals ; but it muft be admitted that they
are competent to bind themfelves, as well as their principals, if they ufe apt and adequate words.
Government can not carry on its operations but through
agents, who are diftinguifhed as its officers. I admit that
an officer of government, contra5ing asfuch, for government, is not perfonally liable. The law neither creates
nor implies any liability on the officer; but he may make.
himfelf individually liable by his exprefs promife and contraR.
j. Term rep. x8 x. Macbeath v. Haldimand. There is
nothing then in the chara&er of fecretary of war, that
prevents him from ufing words that will render him liable. This leads to thefecond queftion, which is whether
he has ufed fuch words.
This leafe is for eight months; but if for eight years,
the fame law muft govern its confirudion. I hold it an
undeniable pofition that Mr. Dexter was not competent to
bind his fucceffors in office. If he could not, then the
leafe muft havefome operation. It can not be intended
to be a void leafe. If not void, then it enures to Mr.

Dexter and his executors.

If it enures to them, they

FEBRUARY, 18o3.
only are liable on the covenant, that is, lie in his life-time,

and they after him. A much ftronger cafe exifts in the
books. A bifhop is a corporation fole; he has fuccfors
technically fpeaking. Here then is a perfon who has a
double capacity, competent to 1contra&ft in either. So had
Mr. Dexter, But, fay the books, if a leafe be made to a
bilhop and hisftccfors, it enures to him and his executors.
12.
i Bac. ab. 508, CorporationE. 4. Co. Lit. 46. (b.)
Co. i55. Corven's cafre. The word -' bifhop" in fuch a
cafe is as much the defcription of his politic capacity, as
the word fecretary at war in the prefent cafe. A bifhop
has legal ,(filcff.rs ;" and is not an habendum " to a
"

bifhop and his fucceffors," as ftrong as the words

"

to

91 the faid Samuel Dexter and his fucceffors ?" If in the

cafe of the bifhop fuch a leafe would enure to him in his
individual capacity, a fortiori in the caie of Mr. Dexter
who has no legal fucceffors.

Again. The covenant to leave the demifed pr...nifes
in good repair, is a covenant real. i Bac. ab. 534, 536.
If it be a covenant real and runs with the eftate and intereft, then as the eftate and intereft paffes to Mr. Dexter
and his executors, he and they only can be bound. Suppofe the leafe had been for five years, and a ftranger
had taken poffeffion ; who could fupport an eje&ment ?
Not the lefFor, becaufe he had parted with his interefi :
not the fuccelTor of Mr. Dexter, beciufe he is neither a
party nor a privy. Mr. Dexter only' could have maintained the adion, the eflate and intereft being in him. It
never was out of him during the term. If the operation
of law cafrs this leafe upon Mr. Dexter, he who has the
benefit muft bear the burthen ;. and he muft be bound by
this covenant to repair which runs with the eftate.
The defendant's ideas violate all the rules of conftruction.
i ft. In

-

deed, when words of a precife import are

ufed, you cannot refort to other exprefflons for a fuppofed

intent. The word " hinlff," in the covenant, is too
plain to admit of doubt.
2d. No words fhall be reje&ed which can be made to
operate. By their conftru~ion, the word " himfelf,"

Y 2

-. (oDG;o,

D;x'rEi.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HoDGION
v.
DEXTER.

which has a definite meaning, muft be rejealed, and give
way to the wei'd "fuccfors," which in this inftrument can
have no meaning.
3 d.

Such conftruqion (hall be given ut res magits valeat

quam pereat.
According to our conftrudtion the deed is operative;
but according to their's it is mere walle paper.

ift. They fay that Mr. Dexter is not bound.
2d. All muff agree that his fucceffor is not bound.
3 d.

Ex confequenti, no body is bound.

The cafe of "Unwin v. WolfdYZ,

z Term rep. 674, 's

clearly in our favour. In that cafe the cont-a& was by
an officer of government who exprefsly contraaled " on
99 account of lis najVf/y," and covenanted "9on account of
the king," that " governthentflould be atfwerable." In our

cafe there are no fuch words,- nor Any thing, except the
ftyling himfelf fecretary at 'war, and ufing the term fuccejoTrs, which can poffibly indicate any intention to bind
the government.
2d point.

The firft plea in bar is bad. The matter is infufficient
to bar the plaintiff from his alion. The fubftance of it
is that the houfe was burnt without the negligence or
othier default of the defendant. This is no anfwer to an
exprefs covenant. Due care and diligence is nothing
nore than every bailee for hire, where there is no exprefs
agreement, is. bound to ufe. The plea puts in iffue the
negligence or default of the defendant, and throws the
onus probandi on the plaintiff to (how atual negligence ;
whereas the defendant ought to (how fuch an inevitable
caiualty as to bring himfelf within the benefit of the exc.ption. He ftates that the fire happened without his
default from'fome caufe to him unknown ; but it does
not thence follow that the deftru&ion of the 'houfe war

inivitable. It is immaterial whether it happened with
his knowledge and will or without. The plea does not

FEBRUARY; 1803.

355

bring in iffue the fa& whether the deftruCtion was inevit- HooosoNi
v.
able, or not; but only whether it happened with his
DEXTRa.
knowledge and by his default.
Default or negligence means the want of ordinary care.
3d point.

The merits of this plea have already been difcuffed in
fpeaking of the word " fucceffors,", in the leafe. The
demurrer here is not by the plaintiff to the defendant's
plea ; but by the defendant to the plaintiff's replication ;
but if the replication is bad, yet if the plea is bad, judgment muft be for the plaintiff, unlefs the court fhould be
of opinion that the declaration alfo is bad, in as much as
it is not fupported by the indenture of which a profert
is made, whereby it becomes part of the declaration. In
that cafe the fate of this demurrer muff depend upon the
queftion of perfonal liability of the defendant.
Dexter, contra.

ift. It is admitted by Mr. Key, that the defendant
had a fight to make a public contra& and thereby to
bind the government; and we admit that he was alfo competent to bind himfelf. The queftion then is whether
this is a public contrad ; or whether the defendant has
bound himfelf perfonally. In addition to the internal
evidence of the deed itfelf, the plea ftates other material
fads which are admitted by the demurrer,'and which
tend to prove the intention and underftanding of the parties at the time of contrading. Thefe fa&s are ift, The
order of the Prefident, purfuant to law, to remove the offices to Wafhington. 2d, Their confequent removal.
3 d, The neceflity of providing a houfe in which they
might be held. ' 4 th, That for thefe purpofes, and for
no other purpofe whatever, the buildings were by the
plaintify leafed to the defendant. 5th, That the defendant was at that time fecretary of the department of war.
Thefe fa&s fhew the authority which the defendant had
to bind the government, and the purpofe for which the
contrad was made. The contra&, then, being made by
a public officer of the government, having authority
therefor, and for the ufe of the government, is primd

SUPREMr_ COURT U. S.
HoDcsON facie a public, and not an individual, contrad. The quef'v.
tion then is, whether the defendant has pldged his inDEXTER.
dividual credit, in addition to that of his government.
" - - '1his depends upon the intention of the parties; for the
intention of the parties in all cafes conflitutes the contrad. This intention is to be known by the words they
have ufed ; but if thofe words are doubtful, refort may be
had to other fads, fuch as the fubje& matter of the
agreement, the purpofe for which it was made, and the
official charader of the parties, or either of them. But
an the prefent cafe the words of tlt. inflrument itfelf
feem to leave no room to doubt. In the premifes, the defendant is ftyled fecretary at war, and throughout-the
whole deed, when he is mentioned, he is called the faid
Samuel Dexter, refeiring to the official defcription, contained in the premifes; and in the conclufion it is faid
that the faid parties have thereunto fet their hands and
feals. The word ,'fucceors" alfo is ufed wherever the
name of the defendant occurs in the inftrument ; and,
whether he was competent to bind his fucceffors or not,
yet it fhews the intention of the parties, and the charader
in which the defendant meant to contrad. It (hews alfo
who was to occupy the premifes after the defendant
fhould ceafe to be fecretary at war. The plaintiff himfelf
alfo has clearly fhown what his underftanding was at the
time, by covenaning on his part that thefucceors of the
defendant fhould quietly occupy and enjoy the premifes
during the term. This fhows that the plaintiff underftood
he was contrading with a public officer, for public purpofes. But great ftrefs is laid upon the word "himfelf ."
The faid Samuel Dexter, for kinfifef and his fucceffors,
covenants to keep the premifes in repair. How does he
covenant for himfelf ? Clearly for himfelf while in office,
and as the reprefentative of the government, his principal. The fame arguments which (how this to be a public
contra&, explain and limit the zheaning of the word himfe!. Who is " himfelf P" The faid Samuel Dexter.
Who is thefaid Samuel Dexter? The premifes fay, Samuel Dexter, fecretary at war.
The cafe of Macbeath v. Haldimand, i Terin rep.

172,

is a much fironger cafe againft the individual, than the
prefent, and yet the court had no hefitation in declaring
it to be a public contrala, and that the indihidual wjs

FEBRUARY, 1803.

357

not liable. In that cafe nothing was faid exprefsly of
contraffing on account of the government, or for hinifelf
and his fucceffors. In order to fhew that the defendant
meant to pledge his individual credit in addition to that
of his government, the plaintiff ought to make out a
very ftrong cafe, in exprefs terms for if public agents
,

are to be made liable upon prefumptions arifing from equi-

vocal expreffions, no prlidentman will undertake to condu& the public bufinefs, where, of neceffity, contrads
muft be made to an immenfe amount. If a doubt exifts,
the conftrudion ought certainly to be in favour of the
,gent. The cafe of Uwvin v. Wol'felv, i. Term rep. 674,

clearly thows that no difference, in the conrlruCtion of
the coxitraa, can arife from the circumftance of its being
under feal.
The intention of the contrad being to bind the government, it fhall not, by reafon of the feal, become the
contrad of the individual who did not mean to bind himfelf. The only operation of the feal is to raife the agreeinent from a timple contrad to a fpecialty. The feal
therefore does not make it the deed of the individual. It
is immaterial whether th words " on accountr of his majef" tY," make the cafe of Unwin v. Wolfeky, a fironger cafe

in favour of that defendant, than the prefent. The cafe
is not cited to compare thofe facls with thefe, but to fhow
that the feal makes no difference between that cafe and
Che cafe of Macheath v'. Haldimand.

2d. Point. InevitaBle cafualty.
The objedions to this plea feem to be, that it throws the
onurprobandiupon the plaintiff; and that the facs do not

fhow an inevitable cafualty.
The plea 'has ftated all that was poffible to ftate ; all
that was within our knowledge ; and if they do not fhow
the cafe to be primafacie within the exception of the covenant, the plea is bad. No form of plea which the defendant could have pleaded, as to this point, would have
laid the onus probandi on him.
The exception of inevitable cafualties is in its nature a
negative. One of the counts in the declaration avers the

HODOSON

1.DEx'rrR.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HioDCSoN
DEX'-TER.

V

defirufion of the buildings to have been by an evitable
cafualty. Upon this averment the defendant might have
taken iffue, and faid it was not by an evitable cafualty,ior
in the words of the leafe, that it was by an inevitable
cafualty, which is equally a negative propofition ; and in
either cafe the proof would lay on the plaintiff. So if
the defendant had pleaded that the accident happened
notwithfanding he had ufed the utmoft care and diligence
to prevent it; the plaintiff muff have replied fome aHt of
negligence. For it can not be fuppofed that the defendant
Thould fhow particular inifances of his care for every moment of his occupation during the whole term. Suppofe
the defendant had pleaded, that the fire arofe by accident
in the adjoining houfe and communicated to the houfe in
quefion; (This example is affumed under an impreffion
that fuch was the faa ;) would that have been more fatisfaftory to the plaintiff than the prefent plea ? He would
fill have to ihew that the defendant had not ufed reafonable means to avoid its effeds.
In the cafc of Konk v. Cooper, 2. lord Raym. 147"7,
the form of pleading is not more certain than the prefent;
and is the form which has been ever fince ufed in cafes
of deftrudion by fire.
It is underftood that the learned gentleman who is to
clofe this argument has given an opinion, and means to
contend, that inevitable cafualty means the a& of God.
But fu-ely it can not mean an accident only evitable
by the power of the fupreme being. Death is ufually
termed the ad of God; but death may be by human
means which may often'be avoided ; as in the cafe of
murder. So death may be the confequence of unfkilfulnefs of the phyfician, and might have been avoided by
employing a man of more fkill. So a man by expofing
himfelf to a ftorm may take cold, and death may enfue;
which might have been avoided by not expofing himfelf
to the ftorm. Yet in all thefe cafes the death is faid to be
the ad of God. An inevitable. cafualty therefore is not
always the act of God ; but muff mean, in the prefent
cafe, a cafualty inevitable by the defendant. It cannot
mean a cafuahy evitable only by the united exertions of
the whole human race. A whirlwind is faid to be the

FEBRUARY, 1803.

359

ad of God, yet its effe&s may be prevented by building HoiGso
1'.
a wall of brafs abPut the houfe of fufficient ftrength. So
the effefs of lightning may be prevented by proper con- DEXTER.
duCdors; and the ravages of enemies may be impeded by
a fufficient human force. Thefe examples are cited to
fhow that the term inevitable cafialty can not be confined
to thofe accidents which are ufually termed the ads of
God ; nor to fuch as are inevitable notwithftanding the.
united exertions of all the world. Where, then, is the
line to be drawn ?
It is believed that the true meaning of the expreffion
is, fuch accidents as -can not be prevented by reafonable
care and diligence.

But even talking the expreffion to be confined only to
thofe accidents which are called the a& of God, yet there
are not wanting old authorities which exprefsly call a fudden fire the ad of God, although more modern writers
have very properly termed it an inevitable accident. T.
Rolls. ab. 8o8. p1. 6. under the head of " what' ads
"fhall excufe an efcape," fays, " fo if the prifoners ef"cape by fudden fire, this Thall excufe the efcapefor thit
"is the aRc of God." And. in Dyer 66. (b.) 15. it is
faid hifahe 'plead that the prifon was'broken by enemies
"of the king, or byfuddenfire, which is the aR 6f God, or
" by fuch force or vehement power that he could not reef fift, this is good matter."
The cafe of Forward v. Pittard, i. Zerm rep. 27, is
a very ifrong one upon this point. There was a verdi&
for the plaintiff, fubje& to the opinion of the court upon
the following cafe. That the defendant was a common
carrier from London to Staftefbury. That on Thucfday
the i 4 th Odober 1784, the plaintiff delivered to him on
Wey bill twelve pockets of hops to be carried by him to
Andover, and to be by him forwarded to Shaftefbury by hispublic road waggon, which travels from London, through
Andover, to Shaftefbury. That by the courfe of travelling, fuch waggon was not to leave Andover till the Saturday evening following. That in the night of the following day after the delivery of the hops, afire broke ut
i:n
a booth, at the diflance of about ioo yards from the
booth in which the defendant had dcpofited the liops.

SUPREME COURT V. S.
which burnt for fome time with unextinguifhable violence,
and during that time communicated itfelf to the faid booth
IV.
. in which the defendant had depofited the hops, and enDEvr
x
Stiiely confumed them without any afual negligence in the
defendant. That the fire was not occafjoned by lightning."
HoDGsoN

The counfel for the plaintiff in that cafe contended
that a carrieris liable in all cafes except the lofs be occcfoned by the ac7 of God or the king's enemies; and a diflindion
is taken between the a& of God and inevitable accident.
The counfel for the defendant infiffed that he was not
liable for accidents happening without any default or negligence of the carrier.
Lord Mansfield faid there was " a nice diftindion bec tween the a& of God, and inevitable neceffity. In
",
thefe cafes (of common carriers) acual negligence is
" not neceffary to fupport the acion."
Afterwards lord Mansfield delivered the unanimous
opinion of the court. " It is laid down that a carrier is
c liable for every accident ; except by the ad of God, or
king's enemies. Now what is the ad of God ?
,tht
" I confider it to mean fomething in oppofition to the
'-at of man: for every thing is the ad of God that
" happens by his permiffion ; every thiiig by his know,cledge.
But to prevent litigation, collufion, and the
-neceffity of going into circumlances impcffible to be
( unraveiied, the law prefumes againfl the carrier, uniefs
" he fhows it wac. done by thc king's enemies, or by fuch
-a& as could not happen by the intervention of man, as
c forms, lightning and tempefts."
" If an armed force come to rob the carrier of the goods
the is liable ; and the true reafon is for fear it may give
' room for collufion, that the mafter may contrive to be
" robbed on purpofe, and fhare the fpoil.
" In this cafe it does net appear but that tbe fire arfe
,,from the ac7 offoe man or other. It certainly aidar,1*
"fron fome aR of man; fer it iS expreJ)ly Jlaled n9t to L.ave
cc happened by lightning. The carrier lierefore inthis cafe
' is liable, i<,nuch as be is liablefir inevitable accident."

FEBRUARY, 1803.
The court in that cafe call a fire ary/ing from the aR of HoDGsoIN
,V.
man, an inevitable accident, but decide, that the carrier is
liable, inafnuch as he is liable for inevitable accident; being
confidered as an infurer. There the cafe fhews that the

fire arofe from the aR7 of man ; but inafinuch as it was
without any default of the carrier, the court called it an
inevitable accident. In the prefent cafe, the plea fRates,

that againfi the 'willand without the negligence, or other default of the df'ndant, the building was confumed by fire
ar/iwngfrom ome cat', then and yet .wholly unknown to the

defendant. The only difference in the two cafes is, that
in the cafe of the carrier, the fire appeared to have arifen
from the a& of man, but in the prefent cafe, the caufe of
the fire is wholly unknown. If the former was juftly
called an inevitable accident, a fortiori, the latter ought to

be fo called.
In Comyn's rep. 631, deftruaion by fire ".admitted by
the counfel on both fides, to be an unavoida/e accident.
In 7oner on bailment, a work remarkable for the correanefs and precifion of its language, p.

49

of

9

o

, American Ed. (p.

Englifj1 Ed.) is this expreffion, " if they be def-

4 troyed by wreck, pillage,fire, or otbers inevitable misforIn page 93, (51,) he cites a paragraph from Puf" tune."

fendorf, " that the borrower ought to indemnify the lend" er, if the goods lent be deftroyed byfire, fhipwreck, or
"

other inevitable accident."

In page 97, (53,) he fay5,

there are other cafes, in which a borrower is charge,
" able for inevitable mifchance ;for example, if the houfe of
Caius be injflames, and he be able to fecure one thing on" ly," &c. And in p. 142, (78) " there is no obligation in
" the bailee to fuggeft wife precautions againft inevitable
"

"

accident, and he cannot, therefore, be obliged to advife

infurancefromfire." In page 146, (79, 80,) he fais" al"though the aR7 of God be an expreflion, which too long
" cuftom has rendered familiar to us, yet perhaps, on that
99 very account, it might be more proper, as well as more
c decent, to fubftitute in its place inevitable accident." See
alfo p. 135, (73,) 146, (79, 8o,) 149, (81, 82,) 32, (8,)
as to. the peculiar law refpe&ing innkeepers and common carriers, and as to the ge;ieral principle that the
bailee is liable only for negligence, the degree of which
is regulated by the nature of the bailment.
'Z 2

DExTER.'

SUPREME COURT V. S.
The authorities thus cited fhew that fire in former
times was called the a6 of God, but in latter days it is
DEXTER. termed, in the very expreffions of the leafe, an inevitable
v
accident, an inevitable cafualty, an inevitable mifchance,
or an unavoidable accident, by lawyers, by judges, and by
elementary writers. The prefumption therefore is ftrong,
that the cafe of fire was the very cafe of inevitable
cafualty, which the exception in the leafe was. intended to
guard againft.

HoDGsoN

3 d.

As to the third point.

It is immaterial whether this be confidered as the contract of the ffilcer in his official capacity, or of the government, and whether an aCtion will or will not lay againft
the fucceffor. That queflion can only be of importance
as it concerns the mode of the remedy, but does, not affe t
the point of perfonal liability. It would be ruinous not
only to the agent, but to the government itfelf, if this doctrine of individual refponfibility is to be eftablifhed. Suppofe the defendant or his fucceffor had been difpoffeffed
by the plaintiff during the term, who would have the right
of aaion ? If the defendant after he was out of office had
the fole right to fue, the office muft be-at his mercy. He
might rcleafe the contrat. Suppofe a contract made by
the fecretary at war, for fupplying the army, and advances
as ufual made to the contra~tor. Suppofe the frm advanced to be 5o,ooo dollars, (which in fuch cafes is not a
large fum,) and the contractor pockets the money and refufes to make the fupplies. The fecretary becomes bankrupt, or refufes to bring fuit, or dies and his executors refufe tofrue. How are the public to compel them ? Is it
confiflent with the dignity of the United States to afk
their leave to bring fuit ? There is now exifting a contract
for the cafting of cannon, made by the defendant while
in office. Can the fecretary out of office releafe this contract ? Can he give a valid releafe of the contraCL for fupplies to the army ?
Thefe examples fhow, that the ex-fecretary is not the
perfon contracting, and that the fuit is brought againfl
the wrong perfon.
.Mfon, on the fame fide, was ftopped by the court,
who faid they were fatisfied with the argument on the

FEBRUARY, 1803.

363

part of the defendant, upon the firft
point, and wifhed to HoDosON
hear the counfel in reply. Mr. Martin obferved, that he
IV.
did not fuppofe that any thing he had to offer would fhake DTER.
the opinion which the court feemed to have formed, and
ihould not infift upon replying.
March 2d. The Chief c/u/lice, after Rlating the terms of
the leafe, and the pleadings, delivered the unanimous
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error has made two points.
ift. That under this contra&, the defendant was bound
in his private capacity.
2dly. That the matter, pleaded in his plea, did not fhew
the cafualty, by which the buildings were deftroyed, to
have been inevitable.
This court give no opinion on the fecond point, being
unanimous in favor of the defendant on the firfl.
It appears, from the pleadings, that congrefs had paffed
a law authorizing and requiring the prefident to caufe
the public offices to be removed from Philadelphia to
Wafhington ; in purfuance of which law, inftru&ions,
by the prefident, were given, and the offices belonging to
the department of war were removed ; that it became neceffary to provide a war office, and that for this purpofe,
and no other, the agreement was entered into bythe de.fendant who was then at the head of this department.
During the leafe, the building was confumed by fire.
It is too clear to be controverted, that where a public
agent ads in the line of his duty and by legal authority ;
his contradts made on account of the government, are
public and not perfonal.
They enure to the benefit of, and are obligatory on the
government; not the officer.
A contrary dodrine would be produtive of the moft
injurious confequences to the public, as-well as to individuals. The government is incapable of a~ling otherwife than
.by its agents, and no prudent man would confent to be,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HoDGsoN

come a public agent, if he fhould be made perfonally re-

.v.
DPXTFPR.
V

fponfible for contra6ts on the public account. This fubjewas very fully difcuffed in'the cafe of Macbeath v. Haldimand cited from firft term reports; and this court confidere
the principles, laid down in that cafe, as confonant to policy, juftice and law.
The plaintiff has not controverted the general principle, but has infifted, that, in this cafe, the defendant has,
by the terms of his contraa, bound himfelf perfonally.
It is admitted that the houfe was taken on account of
the public, in purfuance of the proper authority ; and
that the contra& was made by the perfon at the head of
the department, for the ufe of which it was taken ; nor is
there any allegation, nor is there any reafon to believe,
that the plaintiff preferred the private refponfibility of the
defendant, to that of the government ; or that he was unwilling to contra& on the faith of government. Under
thefe circumftances, the intent of the officer to bind himfelf perfonally mufr be very apparent indeed, to induce
fuch a conftruaion of the contra&.
The court can perceive no fuch intent. On the contrary, the contra&: exhibits every appearance of being
made with a view entirely to the government.
The official charader of the defendant is Rated in the
defeription of the parties. This, it has been faid, might
be occafioned by a willingnefs in the defendant to defcribe
himfclf by the high and honorable office he then filled.
This, unqueftionably, is poffible, but is not the fair conftru&ion to be placed on this part of the contra&, becaufe
it is not ufual for gentlemen, in their private concerns,
to exhibit themfelves in their official character.
The tenement is let to " the f;it Samuel Dexter and
his fucceffors;" an expreffion plainly evidencing that it
was not for himfelf, otherwife than as fecretary of war;
and that the leffor fo underftood the contrac.

It is alfo

evincive of the corre~tnefs of the obfervation of the defendant, that the words " faid Samuel Dexter," refer to
him in his officilA charapCer, as defcribed in the premifes.
The habendum is " to have and to hold the faid demifed

FEBRUARY, 1803.

365

" premifes to him the faid Samuel Dexten and his fuecef-

HIODGSON

q;.
"firs," &c.-fhowing, that to the knowledge of the leffor,
if Mr. Dexter ihould go out of office the next day, the DExTER.
fucceffor to the war department would fucceed atfo to
the occupancy of the office.

The covenant for quiet enjoyment during the term is
with the faid Samuel Dexter and his fiicaJfrs, and is,
that.they, as well as he, flhall enjoy.
The covenant on the part of Mr. Dexter, on which
the fuit is brought, is for himfelf and his fuiccrfonr.
The whole face of the agreement then manifefts very
clearly a contra& made entirely on public account, withleffee, to the
out a view, on the part of either the leffor oir
private advantage or refponfibility of Mr. Dexter.
The only circumftance which could excite a doubt Was
produced by the technical operation of the feal. This,
in plain reafon and common fenfe, can make no difference
in defignating the perfon to be refponfible for the contra& ; and fo it has been determined in the cafe cited
from the 'i

Term rep. 674, (UOzwin v. Wolfeley.)

The ceuit is unanimoufly and clearly of opinion, that
this contradt was entered into entirely on ,behalf of government, by a perfon properly authoized to make it,
and that its obligation ison the government only.
Whatever the claims of the plaintiff may be, it is to
the government,- and not to the defendant, he muft refort to have them fatisfied.
Judgment aflirmed wvith cgs.

LLOYD

LLOYD v. ALEXANDER

ET AL.

,v.
AL EXANDER
ET AL.

THE writ of error iWthis cafe was quafhed be- accompany
A citation muff
the
trror.
writ of
caufc it was not accompanied by a cntation.

