FEBRUARY, 1803.
BAILEY E. CLARK,
V.

ROBERT YOUNQ, AND CO.
__.

_

_

CLARK

YOUNG,
& Co.

ERROR from the circuit court of the diftri&
of Columbia, fitting in the county of Alexandria.

This was an adion on the cafe for goods fold and
delivered by Young and co. to Clark. The declaration
had three counts ;one for the price of the goods i one on
a quantum valebant ; and one for money had and received.

In Virginia it i.
not abfolutely
neceffary, in all
aS, tooffoe
the
maker
a pro.'
miffory note, to
entitle the holda6 ion
to
er
againfl. tihe
indorler

The caufe came on to be tried in the court below, on If a promiffory
note of a third
the general iffue, at April term x8o2.
perfon be indorfed by the

The faas, on the trial, appeared to be, that on the 9 th purchafer of
of September, 1794, Young and co. fold to Clark 400 goods to the
sender, as a
bufhels of falt, at 4/3 per bufhel, amounting to 283 dol. c onditional paylars and 33 cents. At the time of the fale and delivery ment for the
of the falt, Clark affigned to Young and co. a negociable goods ; Quere,
promiffory note, made by one Mark Edgar to Pickersgill Whether the

is, in
vender
S
any
cafe, obligand co. i'nd by them indorfed to Clark, dated September
Sth, 1794, for 289 dollars, payable 6o days after date, ed tofue the

at the bank of Alexandria. That Young and co. infti- maker
of the
tuted a fuit in Fairfax county court, in Virginia, againif n e before
can refort to
Clark, on his indorfement of this note; upon the trial he
tle purchafer
of which caufe, Clark, by his counfel, " prayed the opi- of the goods.
"t nion of the court, whether the plaintiffs could maintain contra&:
on the originil
of falet
, their a&ion againft him, previous to their having com- A fuit againft!
" menced a fuit and obtained judgment againf the draw- the defendantas
" er, or maker of the note ; and until his infolvency indorfer of the
tfhould appear ;" " and the court gave it as their
• . opi- note,
gainitand
theafuit
denion that they ould not; and direaed the jry ac-gfenant for
the
" cordingly."

Whereupon, a verdia was fouid for the
defendant. It alfo appeared that at the time the note
was indorfed by Clark to Young and co. as well as at the
time when it became payable, Mark Edgar, the drawer
of the note, was in bad circumflances, and was fuppofed
and reputed to be infolvent. And that about the middle

goods fold, are
upon diftind
and different

and the firft
eannotbeplead-

ed in bar of

fecond
or laft of December, 1794, he left Alexandria, and had the
t isnot nenever returned to it.
cear, uor the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CLAX F

IV.
YOUNG,
& Co.

Sdefendant

plaintiff t0 offertorcturnthnote, to ntitle
him tu bring

fuitfor the
good. fold.

The record which came up to this court contained three
bills of exceptions:
i.

The firft contained a demurrer, on the part of the

below, to the evidence, which the circuit court
refufed to compel the plaintiffs to join. This exception
was abandoned by the counfel for the plaintiff in error.
2. The fecond bill of exceptions was in thefe words,
1 memorandum, in the trial of this caufe, the defendant
'r gave in evidence to the jury, that the plaintiffs had inct
fituted a fuit againift him, in the county court of Fair" fax, upon the indorfement of the promiffory note of
4' Mark Edgar, herein before mentioned ; the proceed" ings in which faid fuit are in thefe words, to wit :"
(here was inferted the record of Fairfax county court)
" Whereupon, the counfel for the defendant prayd the
- court to inftrud the jury, that if, from the evidence
, iven in this caufe, they fhould be of opinion, that
" the promiffory note aforefaid, was indorfed by the defendant to the plaintiffs, in c-onfcquence of the goods,
wares, and merchandife, fQld as aforefaid, (although
the faid'indorfemnent was not intended as an abfolute
" payment for the faid goods, wares and merchandife,
or receivd as fuch by the plaintiffs, but merely as a
" conditionalI payment thereof)' yet the receipt of the
." faid note, under fuch circuinflances, and the inftitu.
" tion of the aforefaid fuit by the plaintiffs againft the
" defendant upon his in.dorfement aforefaid, made the
".note fo far a payment to faid plaintiffs, for the faid
goods, wAres and merchandif-s, as to preclude them
" from fuftainii.g any action againft the faid defendant
" for the goods, wares and merchandife, until they had ta- ken fuch meafures againit the faid Mark Edgar, as were
"required by the laws of Virginia; and that the plain.
"tiffs, having inftituted the faid fuit upon the faid note
againrft the defendant, and that having been decided
I ag..inft the faid plaintiffs, were barred from fuftaiing
- this action againft the faid defendant. But the court
" refufed to give the inftruffion as prayed, and inrfrutted
,, the jury that if they fhould be of opinion, from the
evidence, that the fait was fold and delivered by the
plaintiffs to the defendant, and the note was ind .,rfed
" by the defendant to-the plaintiffs in confequence of the
4'"falt

161d, although the faid indorfement was not in-

FEBRUARY, 1803.
" tended as an abfolute payment, and received as fuch
"by the plaintiffs, but merely as a conditional payment
" thereof, then the fame is a difcharge for the falt fold,
c unlefs it is proved that due diligence has been ufed by
" the plaintiffs to receive the money due on the note;
" but the bringing a fuit againft Mark Edgar, is not abfo" lutely a neceffary part of faid diligence ; but the want of
"fuch fuit may be accounted for by the infolvency of the
"f aid Edgar, if proved ; or by the conduCt of the de" fendant himfelf preventing fuch fuit ; to which refufal
" and dire&ion of the court, the defendant by his coun" fel prays leave to except," &c.
3. The third bill of exceptions ftated, that "the defendant by his counfel then prayed the opinion of the
" court and their diredion to the jury. that the defend" ant was entitled to a credit for the amount of the faid
Ccnote, unlefs the plaintiffs could fhew that they had in4tftituted a fuit thereon againft Edgar ; or'tht Edgar had
c taken the oath of an infolvent debtor, or had ahfcond.
" ed, at the time the note became payable ; or unltfs the
c plaintiffs could fhew that they bad offered to returnand
" re-affign the faid note to the faid defendant previous to.
" the inflitution of this fuit. But the court having bec fore, in the trial of the. faid caufe, on application by
" the defendant to inftrud the jury in the manner fet
" forth in his fecond bill of exceptions, given direCtions
" to the jury, comprchettding all the material points conc tained it, the abov, prayer, refufed to give the inftnic"tion as prayed, to which reftifal the defendant by his
c counici prayed leave to except,' &c.
"

Vcrdid and judgment for the plaintiffs, for the full
amount of the falt fold ; on which judgment the defendant broug-t a writ of error to this court.
Swann and Mafon for plaintiff in error.

C. Lee and E. .. Lee for defendants.
Swann.
If a note is indorfed to the vender at the time of the
fale of goods, although it is not agreed to be an abfo-

CLARK

IV.
YoUNcG,
C

SUPREME COURT U. S.
C LA Pr

IV.
YOUNG,

& Co.

lute payment, yet it is a conditional payment, viz. if the

note be paid, or if it be indorfed over by the vender, or
if heis guilty of laches; S Term Rep. 513. Keamflake v.
Morgan. In that cafe the plea (which was adjudged good
on demurrer) ftated that the note of one W. Peirce was
indorfed by ,Morgan to Kearflake, "for and on account" of
the goods ford, and that Keurflake " then and there accepted and received the note for and on account" of the
fum due for the goods.
The defendants in error, if they have been guilty of
laches, have made the note their own, and mufl fuffer
the lofs.

2 Wi/Jon 353. Charmberin v. Delarive.

The queftion then arifes, what was due diligence in this
cafe. As the law flarids in Virginia, Young and co.
ought to have fued Mark Edgar, the maker of the note.
Such is the opinion of Judge Roane, in the cafe of Mackie v. Davis, 2 Wa/.

230, which is confirmed by the

judgment of the court of appeals in the cafe of Lee v.
Love, in i. Call's Reports, 497.

But it is unneceffary to refort to the general law in
Virginia on this point, becaufe the court of Fairfax
county has decided the law in this cafe, and while that
judgment ftands unreverfed it is conclufive. The plaintiffs have made their eledion of two modes of proceeding to recover the money-having failed in one, they are
barred as to the other. The fame evidence is neceffary to
fupport both, and this is the teft to prove that they are
for the fame caufe. 3 Wifon 304. Kitchen v. Campbell.
That court has decided that Clarke was not liable on
his indorfement of the note, becaufe Young and co. had
not brought fuit againft Edgar; or, in other words, they
have decided that Young and co. have not ufed due diligence, and therefore have i nade the note their own; and
if fo, the original contra& for the falt is at ap end. Yet
the court below have decided this very queftion differently.
They have faid that a fuit againft Edgar, was not a neceffary part of due diligence. The fame queftion, between
the fame parties, has been differently decided by the two
courts.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

185

iafon, on the fame fide.

CLA

I-

'V.

The court below was concluded by the decifion of the
eounty, court of Fairfax. Nenmo his vexari debet. The
plaintiffs below had two modes of recovering their money from Clark, viz. by a fuit for the falt fold, or by an
affion againft Clark on his indorfement of the note.
They made their election of the latter, and it has been
decided againif them. This ought to end the bufinefs.
3 Wi/fn 304. Kitchen v. Campbell.
E. J..Lee, contra.
The queftion feems to turn on the fecond bill of exceptions. It appears by thal, that the note was not given
as an abfolute, but a conditional payment. It is unreafonable to fuppofe tat the condition was that Young and
co. fliould be obliged to profectite a fuit againft Edgar
through all the courts of Virginia.
The prayer was to inftrua the jury that a fuit muft be
proved to have been profecuted againil Edgar, and his in-.
folvency made to appear.
The judgment of the county court of Fairfax is no bar.
It'was not even a bar to a fecond fuit by Young and co.
againff Clark on the fame note. 'For the opinion of that
court was not generally that the fuit would not lie againft
Clark on hig indorfemeut, but that it would not lie againft
him previous to a fuit againft Edgar, and his infolvency,
being made to appear. Therefore, after proving Edgar
infolvent by a fuit, Young and co. might have brought a
fecond fuit againft Clark and recovered, for any thing that
appears by. the opinion of that court.
If then Young and co. might have had a fecond a~ion
upon the note, they may well bring a fuit upon their ori-,
ginal caufe of aaion. The opinion of the Fairfax court
was only that the plaintiffs had brought their aaion toe
foon.
It is faid this is the fame caufe of aaion which has been
decided in the county court of Fairfax, and that the judoment in that court is a bar to this a&ion.

YOUNG

& Co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CLARK

V.
Young
&C .

In order to prove this, it is neceffary to fhew, not only
that the fame evidence applies to both, but the former
judgment muft have been upon the fame point. And that
point muft be on the merits. 5 Bac. ab. new edition, p,
442.

In the cafe of Kearlake v. Morgan, cited from 5 Term
Rp. it did not appear what had become of the note ; it
might hlave been paid. Befides that was a cafe under the
flatute of Anne, which makes promiffory notes a payment.The cafe of Chamberlyn v. Delarive, in 2
ilfon 3S3,
was decided on he grofs negligence of the plaintiff in
holding the order four months without making a demand
of the money, until the drawee failed.
The refufal of the court below to give the inftru&ion
prayed, and the diredion which they did give.to the jury,
are both juilified by the decifions of the court of appeals
of Virginia. That court has never decided, that a fuit
againft the maker of the note is, in all cafes, neceffary before refort can be had to the indorfer. It is- true that
in the cafe of Alackie v. Davis, Judge Roane faid,'that
" the affignee of a bond acquires a legal right to bring
" fuit upon it, and to receive the money difcharged from
4 any control of the affignor over the fubjed ;" and that
" it is, therefore, his duty to bring fuit." But that -was
only an obiter opinion, not applicable to the point of the
caufe. It is certainly not a felf-evident truth, nor is it
very apparent how the conclufion flows from the premifes; and judge Carrington, in his opinion, in the
fame cafe p. 231, fays " As to the lengths which it be" h6ves the afignee to go in purfuit of the obligor, before
"9 he can refort to the affignor, it is unnecefjary to lay down
4 any general rule; it may fuffice to fay, that in the pred, fent cafe he went far enough." In that cafe, indeed, a
fuit had been brought; but the courts of Virginia have
never laid down any general rule as to what is due diligence in fuch a cafe. In the cafe of Lee v. Love, in
Call'sreports, and Minnis v. Pollard, Call 226. it feems
rather to be inferred that a fuit is not in all cafes neceffary
In the cfe of .ackie v. Davis, the court decided
that the remedy of the affignee of a bond againfi the
affignor, was by the common law ; and it is clear from

FEBRUARY, xcI.

187

the cafe of Lambert v. Oake,, in i Lord Raymond 443,
that, by the common law, the indorfee of a note had his
remedy againft the indorfer, if the money .was not paid
by the maker of the note on demand.
If, therefore, a fuit againft the maker of a note is not,
in all cafes, neceffary'to charge the indorfer, the court
below were right, both in refufing the inftrufion as prayed, and giving the opinion which they did.
C. Lee, on the fame fide.
i. The point arifing from the firit bill of exceptions is,
that the court might well iefufe to compel the plaintiffs
below to join in demurrer to the evidence. This point
being now agreed, I fhall confider,
2. Whether the court did right in refutfing the inftruction t6 the jury, as prayed in the fecond bill of exceptions,

It is not neceffary to enquire whether the inftru&ion
which they did give was right, but whether they were
bound to give that which was afked.
If the note was not received at the time, as abfolute
payment for the falt, Young and co. had a right of
adion for the price of the falt, upon demand and refufal
of payment of the note by Edgar. The liability of the
indorfer to the indorfee of a note is at common law,
and not by the cuftom of merchants, or the ftatute of
Anne. And by the common law, nothing more was neceffary to fix that liability than a demand upon. the maker
of the note and his refufal to pay. Upon this, and this
only, the right of aftion accrued againft the indorfer.
It is true that Young and co. had two remedies. They
might either fue Clark upon his indorfement, or upon the
original contrat for the falt. Having failed in the former, they are not precluded from reforting to the latter.
Their elecion of the firit is not a waiver of the laft.
The affion in Fairfax county, on the note, was no bar
to the aCtion in the diftriC& of Columbia, upon the account. The note was no payment of the account, nor

CLARt
'.

YOUNG

& Co.

SUPREME COURT U. 8.
Io.

was the former adion for the fame caufe as the prefent.
The caufes of adtion, and the evidence neceffary to fup-

YoUNG
& co.

port them, were entirely different. The declaration in
Fairfax county contained three counts. ift. A fpecial

CLAR '

count on Clark's indorfenent of the note, 2d. For money
lent. 3d For money had and received.
In the prefent adion the declaration has alfo three
counts.--.tL for the price'of the falt fold ; 2d. a quantun valcbat ; 3 d. money had and received.
The fame evidence will not fupport both actions. The
indorfement of Clark is the evidence neceffary in one.
The delivery of the falt is the evidence to fupport the
other.
In the cafe of Kitchlin v. Campbell, 2 BI. Rep. 827, 831,

The court faid, " The principal confideration is, wheit ther it be preciely the fame caufe of acion in both, ap- pearing by proper averments, in a plea ; or by proper
- faas flated in a fpecial verdid, or a fpecial cafe. One
" great criterion of this identity is, that the fame evidence
(" will fuflain both the adions ;" and cited Putt and Royon, 2. Shower, 21 i. Raym. 472. 3. Mod. i. Pollexfen
634, Mortimer and Wingate, Moor 463. Bro. a~ion

on the cafe 97, 1o 5 .- And not only muft it require the
fame evidence to fupport both, but in both the que/tion
muft be the fame.-2 BI. Rep. Kitchin v. Campbell, p.
832- fp. Rep. 13o, Ruf v. Webb. This was an action for a fervant's wages, againift his rafter, who had
given him a draft for the full amount of his wages, on
a third perfon, which was not ftanped. And although
the plea flated that he accepted it in abfolute payment,
yet it was held to be no bar.
The cafe of Keamflake v. Morgan depends on the flatute of Anne, which declares that a note given for a debt
due by account, flall be a fatisfa&ion, unlefs the plaintiff ufes due diligence. No fuch flatute exifts in Virgimia.
In the cafe of Chanleryn v Delarive, there was no

demand at all upon the drawee of the bill.
thofe cafes therefore were like the prefent.

Neither of

FEBRUARY, 18o.
Swann, contra.

CL,415
IV.

If a note is agreed to be taken in payment ab folutely,
it is a fatisfa&ion ; but where there is no fuch agreement,
the law implies a condition that the holder fhaU ufe due
diligence. The county court of Fairfax has decided that
Young and co. have not ufed due diligence. That de-

cifion is valid and conclufive all over the world, until
reverfed by a competent authotity.
How then does
this cafe ftand ? Young and co. fold falt to Clark, and

received a note, as a conditional payment, or a collateral
fecurity, no matter which; which note they have made
their own by their own laches. The maker of the note
'has become infolvent and run away. Who ought to bear
the loft ? The law fays clearly, the perfon who his been
negligent, who has .not complied with the requifites of
the law.
It is immaterial whether the judgment in Fairfax, is an
abfolute or a temporary bar ; "for if it is a temporary bar
only, yet Young and co. have not done what that court

,decided to be neceffary.
Mafon, on the fame fide.

A judgment on the fame queftion between the fame
parties is conclufive until reverfed. What is the fame
queftion ? It is the real merits, the matter of right between the parties.

The fame evidence is not the criterion. Trefpafs ap&
trover require different evidence; yet if the merits of
the fame queftion are the gift of both, the one is a bar
to the other. Here the queftion was the fame as in Fairfax, viz. Whether Young and co. had not been guilty,
of laches in refpe& to the note, for if they had, they
had barred themfelves not only from a right to recover
upon the note, but upon the original contra& for the
falt. One and the fame queftion will decide both cafes.
That queftion is upon the merits, and is in h& the only
queftion in difpute between the parties.
It is not important whether the note was rece'ved -as

an abfolute or a conditional payment.

For if it was a

Youva
& co.

SUPREME COURT U. 9.
CLAit

IV.
YOUKG

& co.

conditional payment, the laches of Young and co. have
made it abfolute. There is no evidence of notice to
Clark, of the ddault of Edgar, until the bringingof the
fuit in Fairfax county, which was t8 months after the
note became payable. Having two remedies for the price
of the falt, Young and co. could not refort to both.
They made their ele&ion to fue upon the note, and having purfued that remedy to judgment againft themfelves,
they are forever barred.
The county court of Fairfax have decided the only
queftion which exifted between the parties, the negligence of the plaintiffs below, whereby they had made
the note their own; and therefore they muft abide the
lofs.
Feb, i 7th.
the court.

The chief j]ice delivered the opinion of

This was a fuit brought by the defendants in error
againft the plaintiffs, inthe circuit court of the diftri&
of Columbia fitting in the county of Alexandria, and the
declaration contains two counts for goods, wares and
merchandizes fold-and delivered, and one for money had
and received to their ufe. The caufe came on to be tried
on the general iffue and a verdi&l was found for the plaintiffs below, on which the court rendered judgment.
At the trial of the caufe it appeared that the fuit was
brought for a quantity of falt fold and delivered by Robert
Young and co. to Clark ; after which Clark indorfed to
Robert Young and co. a promiffory note made by Mark
Edgar to John Pickerfgill and co. which had been indorfed
by them to the faid Clark, and which was payable 6o days
after date.
This note was protefted for non-payment; after which
a fuitwas brought thereon by Robert Young and co. in the
county court of Fairfax againft Clark ; and the declaration
contained two counts, one on the indorfement, and the
other for money had and received to the ufe of the plaintiffs. In this fuit verdift and judgment was given for the
defendant Clark, the court of Fairfax being of opinion
tliat' a fuit qould not be maintained againft the indorfer

FEBRUARY,

Bo3.,

of the note, until a judgment had been firft obtained
againft the drawer, and his infolven-i made to .ppear.
Afte- the determinati5n of that a&ion, this fuit was
inftituted on the original contra& ; and, at the trial, the
counfel for the defendant moved the court to inftru&
the jury, that if from the evidence given in the caufe,
they thould be of opinion that the promiffory note aforefaid was indorfed by the defendant to the plaintiffs, in
confequence of thegoods, wares.ahd merchandizes fold as
aforefaid, although the faid indorfement was not intended as an'abfolute payment for the faid goods, wares and
merchandizes, or received as fuch by the plaintiffs, but
merely as a conditional payment thereof, yet the receipt
of the faid note under fuch circumftances, and the inftitution of the aforefaid fuit by the faid plaintiffs againft
the faid defendant, on his indorfement aforefaid, made the
faid note, fo far a payment to the faid plaintiffs, for the
faid goods, wares and merchandizes, as to preclude them
from fuftaining any affion againft the faid defendant for
the faid goods, wares and merchandizes, until they had
taken fuch meafures again ft the faid Mark Edgar, as were
required by the' laws of Virginia; and that the plaintiffs,
having initituted the fuit afo refaid upon the faid note
againft the faid defendant, and that having been decided
againft the faid plaintiffs, they were barred from fuftain.
ing this aaion againft the faid defendant.
This inftruaion the court refufed bo give, but dire&ed
the jury, that if they were of opinion, from the evidence,
that the falt was fold and delivered as alleged,-'and that the
promiffory note aforefaid was indorfed by the defendant to
the plaintiffs in confequence of the falt fold as aforef-id,
although the faid indorfement was not intended as an
abfolute payment for the faid falt or received as fuch by
the plaintiffs, but merely as a conditional payment thereof,
the fame is a difcharge to the defendant for the falt fld
to him, unlefs it is proved that due diligence has been
ufed to receive the money due on the note ; but that the
bringing fuit on the faid note againit Mark Edgar was not
effentially neceffary to conftitute the faid diligence ; and
that the faid diligence may be proved by other ciecumftances, and their omitting to bring the faid fuit again(I
Edgar may be accounted for by the infolvency of Edgar,

CLA.K
IV.
Yout'?

& Co.
'

SUP.REME COURT U. S.
CLARY

-V.

if proved, or any condua of the defendant which may
have prevented the bringing of the faid fuit.

YoUNG

& Co.

To this opinion the counfel for the defendant excepted,
and then prayed the court to dire&t the, jury that the defendant was entitled to a credit for the amount of the faid
note, unlefs the plaintiffs could fhew that they had inftituted a fuit thereon againft Edgar, or that Edgar had
taken the oath of infolvency, or abfconded at the time
th aote became payable, or unlefs the plaintifl could
fh1hw that they had offered to return and re-affign the faid
note to the faid defendant, previous to the inftitution of
this fuit.
This direffion the court refufed to give, and referred
the jury to their opinion already given on the principal
points now Qated and to which an exception had already
been taken. This opinion was alfo excepted to. A verdi&t and judgment was then rendered for the plaintiff without giving credit for Edgar's note, which judgment is now
brought into this court by writ of error.
On thefe exceptions it has been argued that the court
1has erred, becaufe,
ilf. The condu&t of the plaintiffs, Young and co. has
difabled them from maintaining this affion, and fuch
ought to have been the dire&tfon to the jury.
2ly. The verdi&t and judgment in Fairfax court is a
bar to this ation.
The condu6t of the plaintiffs was entirely before the
jury, to be judged of by them from the evidence, excepting only that part of it refpe&ing which the court
gave an opinion. We are therefore only to enquire whether the opinion given by the court be erroneous.
It is agreed on both ides that the note in this cafe was
not received, as payment of the debt, and confequently
did not extinguifh the original contra&t. It was received
as a conditional payment only, and the opinion 'of the
court was, that in fuch a cafe the want of due diligence
to receive the money due thereon would difcharge the
defendant. But the court proceeded to Rtate that due

FEBRUARY, 1803.
diligence might be proved although no fuit was inftituted;
and that circumftances, fuch as the known infolvency of
Edgar, the drawer of the note, or ary condu& of Clark,
preventing a fuit, would excufe Young and co. for not
having inftituted one.
This opinion of the court feems perfe&ly corre&. The
condition annexed to the receipt of the note can not be
prefumed to have required that a fuit fhould be )rought
againft a known infolvent, or that it fhould be brought
againft the will of the indorfer; if he chofe to difpenfe
with it, or took means to prevent it, nothing can be more
unreafonable than that he ihould be at liberty to avail himfelf of a circumftance occafioned by his own condut.
It is riot intended to fay that the perfon receiving fuch
a note is compellable, without fpecial agreement, to fie
upon it in any ftate of things. It is not defigned to fay
that he may riot, on its being protefted, return it to the
indorfer, and refort to his original caufe of aaion ; it is
only defigned to fay, that under the circumftances of this
cafe, nothing can be more clear than that there was no
obligation to fue.
The court gave no opinion that the fuit in Fairfax was,
or was not, a bar to that brought in the county of Alexandria.
It is however clear that no fuch bar was created.
To wave the queftion, whether in fuch a cafe as this,
with declarations for fuch diftin&t caufes, a verdi& in a
prior fuit may be given in evidence as a bar to another fuit
really for the fame caufe of a6tion: it is perfeffly clear
that in this cafe the fame queftion was not tried in both
caufes.
In Fairfax the point decided was, that the 'uit againft
the indorfer would not lie 'till a fuit had been brought
againft the drawer; in the fuit in Alexandria the point
to be decided was whether the plaintiffs had loft their remnedy on the original contra&, by their condu&t refpecting
the note. Thefe were diftin&t points, and the merits of

B2

CLAPLZ

IV.
YOUNG,
& CO.

194

GtAILK

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the latter cafe, were not involved in the decifion of the
former,

YOUNG,

&Co.
'-

-'

On the fecond bill of exceptions, the only real new
point made, is, whether, the aion is maintainable un-

lefs Robert Young and co. had offered to return and reafiign the note before the inflitution of the fuit.
Unqueftionably 'Clark is entitled to the benefit of the
note, but as it was no extinguifhment of the original
caufe of a&ion, there was no abfolute neceffity to prove
an offer of the note before the inftitution of the fuit.
Indeed it does not appear, in this bill of, exceptions, whether the note wa6 merely a collateral fecurity, or a conditional payment. This is'no where ftated pofitively. In
the firft opinion of the court it is ftated hypothetically,
and that opihion muft be confidered on the prefumptiort
that fuch was the faft. But no fuch prefumption is raifed
refpe&fing the fecond bill.
Judgrneht affirmed with cofiu.

WILSON
'V.

WILSON

LENOX AND MAITLAND.

LENOX& AL.

A declaration
ERROR to the circuit court of the diftriCt 6f
in
thedebt,
laiw ofunder Columbia fitting at Alexandria, in a judgment obtained
tirginia, upon by the prefent defendants in error, againft the plaintiff

in
error, n.an a~tion of debt, as indorfer of a bill of ext exchange
of
p.300
forchange folfterling, drawn on the 2d January-,
a protefted bill

teepnctipal,

1o9, at Alexandria, by A. and W. Ranmay, on Find-

ley, Bannatyne and co. London, at ninety days fight, payptft/,mull able to Wilfon, the plaintiff in error, and by him ina'erthofe
the amut
prefented for
o ac-.
c
a peetd
'of
coil dorfed to the defendants. This biil was
refufed,
and
x799,
February,
of
28th
ceptance on the
of proteft.
mages and c

,Quee, whether and on the iftof June, 1799, protefted for non-payment.

ifthe
was "of a plea.that he render unto them
!*
bill ofholder
ex- of The
49 thedeclaration
fum of 4.3oo
an f
fcerling, with damages, intereft and
ragar
h
o
of proteft, of
on a protefted bill of exchange, which
Je noticeftet
to '4 charges

