DECEMBER, i8ox.
There is no doubt but the court had a right to make
rules of practice for itfelf. But not having made fuch a
rule in this cafe, its difcretion ought to have been guided
by the pra&ice of the Virginia courts.
We therefore
hope that this court will corre6a the indifereet exercife
of the power of the court below in this cafe.

RESLER

'I
SHEHrL,

"TheCourt. It is true that the courts in Virginia have
been very liberal in admitting any plea, at the next term
after an office judgment, which was neceffary to bring
forward the fubftantial merits of the cafe, whether it was
4tri6lly an iffuable plea, or not. But at a fubfequent term,
it is a matter of mere difcretion with the court whether
they will admit any fpecial plea at all.
In the prefent cafe the faas, ftated in the plea offered,
might have been given in evidence on the general iue ;
the court exercifed their difcretion foundly in rejeaing
the plea.
Judgment affirmed.
TURNER v. FENDALL.

THIS was a writ of error to reverfe a judg- To i Nx
ment of the circuit court of the diftria of Columbia
Z).
fitting at Alexandria, rendered on a motion by Fendall FENDALL.
againft Turner, late fergeantof the corporate town of
Alexandria, for the amount of money received by him A fheriff makes
on a fieri facias iffued on a judgment, in favour of Fen- the
on a money
fi fa atup-

dall againft one Towers..

the fuit of

A.

vs. B. ann af-

This motion was grounded on an a& of affembly of terwardsafi fa.
Viiginia, revifed code page 3 17. §, 5 .- by which i is put
againt
into A
hisis
ena6ted that " If any fheriff,.under fheriff, or other offi- hands, he can" cer, fhall make return upon any writ of fieri facias or not levy it upon
the made
moneybyof
" venditioni exponas, that he hath levied the debt, dama- A.
the
ges or cofts, as ii fuch writ is required, or any part i. fa. of A, v.
" thereof, and fhall not immediately pay the fame to B.for it does
" the party, to whom the fame is payable, or his attor- not become the
atgood, and chat"1ney," "it fhall and may be lawful for the creditor at
e of A. until

SUPREME COURT U1. S.
'TURNER

V.
I'ENDALL.

~'

it is paid over
to him ; and by
the command
of the writ the
flieriff is in
flri&nefs bound
to bring the
money into
court, there to
F~epaid to the
plaintiff.
On a motion,
in Virginia,
againif a Iheriff,
for not paying
over monies by
him olle&ed

"whofe fuit fuch writ of fierifacias, &c. flall iffue, up,
".1
on a motion made in the next fucceeding general
," court, or other court from whence fuch writ fhall if"fue,
1
to demand judgment againft fuch fheriff, officer,
" or under fheriff, or fecurities of fuch under fheriff, for
the money or tobacco mentioned in fuch writ, or.fo
" much thereof as fhall be returned levied on fuch writs
cc offierifacias, &c. with intereft thereon at the rate of
cc IS per centum per annum, from the return day of the
cc

execution, until the judgment fhall be difcharged; and

" fuch court is hereby authorized and requircd to give

"cjudgment accordingly, and to award execution thereon;
" provided fuch fheriff or officer have ten days previous
" notice of fuch motion."

Fendall had recovered judgment agairft Towers, in

the court of huftings in the. town of Alexandria, for 627
on execution, dollars and 52 cents damages, and 4 dollars and 91 tents
dire&d to
it is not necef- CONES, on which judgment afierifacias
te the
a iffued,
f
court
fary that the
the fergeant of the court of hutings, dated the 1 3 th of
judgment
againft the fhe- December z8oo, returnable to the faid court of huftings
Upon this
riff hould be on the firfi Monday of February then next
rendered at the writ was the following return, viz. " Sergeant returns,
term next fucteeding that to " executed on one large copper boiler and fundry cafks,
which the exe-" and fold for the fum of 703 dollars and 98 cents, incution has been cc eluding fergeant's commiffion-s, on which money I have
retuirned.
levied a writ of fieri facias, !9Lued from the clerk's office of
- cc
redinbe
c9. the court of Fairfax county, on a judgment obtainedby WilPreccedins
in cafes of in-

folvent debtnrs
are matters in

"ham
Deneale againfi Robert Young and Philip R. Fendall,
cc merchants, trading under the firm of Robert Young

Ca', and may cc and company..
e proved by'

Charles Turner,

. S."

parol telbi -

ilmony.
.it
is not error.

Before the next fucceeding term of the court of huft-

in the court be- ings, after the return of the execution, the a& of conlow to reje&, grefs of 2 7 th of February I8o I, concerning the diftri&
as incompetent, of Columbia, intervened, by which the laws of Virginia,
admiffible teftias they then exifted, were declared to be and continue in
ndin
to prcve a fa& force in that part of the diftri& of Columbia which was
not relevant to ceded by that ifate to the United States, and by them
tht cafe before
the court.
toney ?ay be

accepted for the permanent feat of government; and. all

;aken in exe-

for the town of Alexandria, were transferred to the cir-

fuits, procefs,

&c. depending in the court of huftings

cuit court of the diftrit of Columbia eftablifhed by that

DECEMBER, x8oi.
a&; and the firft feffion of the circuit court in Alexandria was by law held on the fecond Monday of April,
1801.

TxiP NEIL
'v.
FENDALL.

no- cution if intie
To that term, April igot, Fendall gave Turner
ljendt.
court
the
of
day
firft
the
on
that
form,
tice, in the ufual
amount
the
for
him
,jgaift.
hE fhould move for judgment
of the execution with intereft thereon according to law;
which notice was figned, " Philip Richard Fendall, for
"the tru/flees of Philip Richard Fendall," and was duly
ferved. Turner not havingappeared the motion was continued till the next term, July i8oi, when he appeared
and admitted the regularity of the delivery and continuance of the notice-and the court upon argument gave
judgment for the plaintiff Fendall; to reverfe which judgment, Turner fued out the prefent writ of error.
The reccord which came up contained three bills of
exceptions.
The firft ftated that the defendant Turner, to prove
that Fendall had taken the oath of an infolvent debtor,
and was thereupon difcharged out of cuftody, prcdubed
the following writing, viz. "FIairfax, Sct. Whereas Philip
" Richar. Fendall, a prifoner confined in the gaol of Fair"fax county, under execution at the fuit of Samuel Love,
" iffued from the diftri& court of Dumfries, and it ap" pearing that legal notice had been given, and a warrant
c ifflued, for bringing before us, for the purpofe of taking
" the oath of an infolvent debtor, and the laid Philip
" Richard Fendall having this day, in the court houfe of
" the faid county, delivered in a fchedule of his eftate and
" effects and taken the oath prefcribed by law ; Thefe are
"therefore in the name of the commonwealth tocommand
" you to difcharge the laid Philip Richard Fendall out
"of your gaol and cuflody, and, for fo doing, this fhall
Given under our hands and
". be your fufficient warrant.
" feals this twenty-firft day of March, eighteen hundred.
" WILLIAM HERBERT, Seal,
" R. WEST, Seal.
" To the fheriff or keeper of the gaol of Fairfax County i"
and offered to prove the hand writing of the faid William
Herbert and Roger Weft ; and alfo to prove by oral teftimony that the faid Philip Richard Fendall did take the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TuRNER

V'.
FENLDALL.

oath of an infolvent debtor before the faid William Herbert and Roger Weft, whofe names are fubfcribed to the
faid writing, and alfo to prove by oral teftimony that the
faid William Herbert and Roger Wet were magiftrates of
the county of Fairfax, on the 2ift of March i8oo, and
had aded as fiuch for many years before; but the court
gave it as their opinion that the faid writing and oral
teftimony were not legal evidence to be admitted to prove
the above mentioned faes.
The 2d bill of exceptions flated, that the defendant
Turner offered to fhew to the court that the truftees of
Fendall were not entitled to the money levied on the
execution of Fendall v. Towers, but the court refufed to
fuffer him to go into that enquiry.
The 3 d bill of exceptions flated, that the defendant
Turner produced a copy of an execution iffued on a judgment obtained by William Deneale againft Robert Young
and Philip Richard Fendall (the plaintiff in the motion
below) and a copy of the return, which return was in
thefe words, " Executed on the fum of 682 dollars and
" 43 cents, money in my hands, being the amount of the
" fum received by me for the fale of certain property ta"ken by virtue of aferiacias,iffued from the cl&rk's office
of the court of huftings of Alexandria, on a judgment
"obtainpd by the within named Philip R. Fendall againft
"John Towers.
cc CHARLES TURNER, T. S."
and alledged that he had a right, and was bound, to levy
that execution on the money of the faid Fendall, which he
had levied by virtue of the execution of Fendall v.Towers,
and which was in his hands feparate and diftinct from
any other money at the time the execution of Deneale v.
Young and Fendall was delivered to him ; but the court
gave it as their opinion that he had not a right, and was
not bound fo to do.
The cafe was now argued by Simms for the plaintiff in
error ; And by C. Lee and Swann for the defendant.
,forthe plaintf in error, it was contended,

DECEMBER, i8om.
Ift. That the court below was not authorized to render TuaR,,
judgment at any other term than that next fucceeding,
'v
FF.!,IALL.
the return of the execution.
2dly. That the teftimony offered to prove the infolvency of Fendall, was competent for that purpofe and ought
not to have been rejeaed.
3 dly. That the defendant below ought to have been
permitted to prove the truftees of Fendall not entitled to
ftceive the money on the execution of Fendall v.Towers.
4 thly. That Turner had a right to levy the execution
of Deneale v Young and Fendall, on the mone4of Fen.
dall in his hands.

ift. The a& of affembly giving this remedy againft
Sheriffs ought to be conflrued ftrialy, becaufe it is a penal
law, inafmuch as it fubjeas the officer to a penalty of 15
per cent. per annum, for not paying over the money levied
upon an execution ; and becaufe this fummary procefs by
motion is in derogation of the common law proceedings.
The words of the aia are that "upon a motion made" to
cc the next fucceeding general court, or other court from
," whence fuch writi hall iffue," " such court is hereby aut thoriged and required to give judgment accordingly
that it " fuch next fucceeding court." The court in April
was the next fucceeding court ; but the court iii July, at
which this judgment was rendered, had no jurifdi&ion
of the caufe. And although confent will take away error,
yet it will not give jurifdi6tion.

,"

2d. The teftimony offered to prove the infolvency of
Fendali, ought to have been admitted.
By the at of affembly refpe&ing infolvent debtors (revifed code'p. 314, 315, fiction' 4o and 41) upon the debtor's delivering his fchedule and taking -the oath, all his
eftate becomes vefted, by a6 of.law, in the fheriff of the
county, and debts due to him are to be recovered in the name
of the]heriff. This money was either the money of Fendall, and fo vefted in'the flieriff as part of the eftate in
poffelion, or elfe it was a chofe in a6ion, and. then the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TURNER
IV.
FENDALL.
'

the only perfon entitled to recover it. In either
fheriff
cafe by isfhowing
the infolvency of Fendall, we fhow that
the title is out of him, fo that he cannot fupport this motion. The ad of. affembly does not make the ad of the
magiftrates in adminiftering the oath, and granting the
warrant of difcharge of an infolvent debtor, a matter of
Third perfons have no means of proving the
record.
It muft be
fa& of infolvency but by parol teflimony.
proved like any other matter in pais. We offered the heft
We
evidence which the nature of the cafe will admit.
offered the original warrant of difcharge under the hands
and feals of the magiffrates, and parol proof that they
were magiftrates at the time and had a&ed as fuch for many
years before, togetiher with evidence of their hand writi'ig.
General reputation has always been confidered as fufficient proof of the official charater of a magiftrate.
3 d. The defendant below ought to have been permitted
to fhew that the truftees of Fendall were not entitled to
the money. The notice in this cafe was given by Fendall for Ihis trulees. .Turner could not know whofe
claims'he had to oppofe, whether thofe of Fendall alone,
or thofe of his truftees. It was, neceffary for him, therefore, to fhew that neither the one nor the others were entitled to recover upon this motion ; and he came prepared
to do this; but the court would not fuffer him to do it..
Fendall, by reafon of his infolvency and the confequent
operation of law in transferring all his rights to the fheriff,
could not recover in his own name for his own. uf'e and
benefit ; but fill as courts of law- will protea trufts
and equitable rights where they are made to appear, and
as the transfer of the eftate and effe&s of an infolvent
debtor, which takes place by the operation of law, does
not transfer thofe things which the infolvent has merely
as truftee, and as the name of Fend~ll might therefore fill
be ufed for the benefit of the truftees ; it was competent
and proper for the defendant below to thew that the truftees had not that equitable right which the law will protc.
4 th. The fourth point feems to divide itfelf iito two

parts.
If. Can money be taken upon afierifaciasin any cafe ?

DECEMBER, x8ot.
2d. Can the officer levy a fieri facias on money in his
vwn hands which he has colleded for the ufe of the
debtor ?

'

ift. It is a general principle that all goods and chatteli,
the property of thedebtor, may be taken in execution, and
when an officer has it in his power to fatisfy an execution to him direaqed, it is his duty to do it, and
he is liable to the creditor if he fails fo to do. The
money of a debtor is a part of his goods and chattels ; it
follows, that it is liable to an execution. There is no
poffible reafon why it fhould not be fo. It is faid there
are fome old authorities to the contrary, and that the reafon g 'ivenis that money cannot be fold. Doug. 219. Armistead v. Phlpot. But'the reafon of felling the goods taken
on execution is that money may be raifed, 4nd furely the
execution may as well be fatisfied by taking money itfelf,
as by taking goods which muft be fold to raife the money.
In 2. Shower, 166. Rex VzWebb, it is faid that by a levari
facias" the fheriff may take. ready money." And in this
refpeC there isno difference between a levarifatias and a
fierifacia:.
The law is exprefsly laid down in Dalt. Sherf 145 and

543, that money may be taken on a fierifacias.
2d. If money in the poffeflion of the debtor may be taken, does the money -being in the hands of the fheriff
make any difference ?
In the cafe of Rex v. Bird, 2 Show. 87, A it was refolved
"by the court, on motion, that on afierifaciasthe fheriff
" may fell the goods, and if he pay the money to the party,
"9 it is good, and the court will allow of fuch return, becaufe
" the plaintiff is thereby fatisfied ; although the writ run,
" ita quod habeat coram nobis, &c."
The fame dotrine
is held in 5.Co. 9o .(a.) Hoe's cafe.
If then the fheriff might have paid this money to Fendall, ahd had fo paid it, he would have been bound to feize
it again inftantly to fatisfy the execution of Deneale.
If he might have done this, and if it was his duty to fatisfy
the execution of Deneale ; where was the necefflity of his

Tu3tNUt

IV.
FENDALL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tu

P

,V.

going through the ceremony of a payment of the money

to Fendall.

Here it is flated by the officer that he kept

E."r'DAL L. the money of Fendall diffitii

and feparate from all other

money, and that he levied the execution of Deneale on
that identical moncy. This is in fubftance the fame thing
as if the money had bten paid over to Fendall and afterwards feized by the officer.
On t.e part of ike dfendant in error, it was faid in reply,
ft.
As to the power of the court to give judgment at
a term fubfequent to the term next after the return of the
execution, that although the ad of Affembly may be penal, and although'the remedy may be in derogation of the
common law proceedings, yet, like all other flatutes, it
muff have a reafonable confiru&ion. It could tnever be
fuppofed to intend that if the court did not give the judgment at the firff term, the jurifdi~tion which they once
had fhould ceafe.
2d'y. The faa of Fendall's infolvency was not material
to the queftion before the court, becaufe any petfon who
was equitably entitled to the money would not be precluded from his claim by this judgment; and by the aa of
affemnbly ro one but the creditor in whofe naie the jmdgment was rendered is entitled to this fumnmary proce s
againft the officer who refufes to pay the money levied
upon the execution ; and if any other perfon was in equity
entitled to the money he muff fRill hfe the name of Fen-P
dall. The name of the nominal creditor ouff be ufed,
or the remedy given by the flatute would be wholly loft.
ie is the only perfon who could acknowledge a fatisfaction upon record, and it ought not to be in the power of
th. oihicer to allege an equitable claim in another perfon
to, fupport his own improper ad. 3 Cro. ,66, 176.
.Benfon v. Flower. In that cafe the creditor had become
bankrupt after the money was made upon the execution
and before the return ; and upon the return the affignees.
contended that they had the right to receive the money,
but the court ordered it to be paid to the bankrupt, becaufe the aflignees were no parties to the fuit, and the
bankrupt was the only perfon who could acknowledge fatisfaaion upon the record ; and themoney, being levied
by the flieriff before the affignmenty, was to be confidered

PECEMBER, iaoi.
,sincusitodia legis, and fo not affignable. It was not the
mon y of the batkrupt at the timj of the bankruptcy, be¢tfufe it did not become his money until he received it.
But if the infolvency of Fend all were material, frill
the
evidence adduced was not couclufive of the fact, nor even
co0ripetent to prove it.
It was not the beft evidence
which the nature of the cAfe admitted. If the ad of the
miagiftrates was a fimple at in pals, yet they themfelves.
were the moit competent witneffe, to prove the fa&, and
their teitimony would be better evidence than a paper
p,4rporting to be figned by W. Herbert and R. Weft,
who do not ifyle themfelves magiftrates, even if their
hand writing fhould be"proved. It does not appear that
they were dead, or that their teftimony could not be obtained. And as to common report being evidence of
their being magiftrates, it certainly was not the beft evi,
4ence, becaufe their commiffions, and the certificate of
the.r taking the requifite oaths of office,' wore matters of
record. Afpinafe, N. P. 74 1. When the a&s of magistrates are.queftiotted in the county in which they are faid
to be ju~fice, common report may be fufficient, becaufe
*11perfons are fuppofed to be obliged to take notice. of
the officers of their county. But in 'this cafe they were
alleged to be juftices of a foreign county. The county
of Fairfax is no part of the diftrid of Columbia.
But this was pot a trial by jury, and it is very queftion.
ble whether in,
fuch a cafe, a rejeffion of'admiffible evidence can be affigned for error, with any more propriety
than an admiflion of incompetent teftimony.
3 d. It is contended that.Turner ought to have been
permitted to fhew that the truftees of Fendall had no right.
to receive the money. The anfwer to that is, that the
court were not trying the right of the truftees, and could
not look into their equitable claims. The court were fitting as a court of law, and not as a court of chancery.
If the truftees had an equitable right, they were not precluded from afferting it in a proper manner-if they had
not, it did not affed the prefent queftion. If they had
a legal right they would not be barred by the judgment
inthis cafe. In whatever light the fubjed is viewed, it
appears to be perfedly immaterial to the prefent queftion.

TURN R

'v.
FENDALL..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TutNEt
',.
FENDALL.
' -

v'

But the fourth point includes the real merits of
4 th.
Had the officer a right to fatisfy
this controverfy.
the execution of Deneale v. Yourtg and Fendall, out of
the money in his hands levied by virtue of the execution
of Fendall v. Towers ?
ift. Money cannot in any cafe be taken by the officer
upon an execution. It is a general principle that on a
fierifacias the goods taken cannot be delivered to the creditor in fatisfaalion of the debt, but muft be fold ; and the
books give this as a reafon why money cannot be taken.
Another reafon may be, 'that money cannot be identified..
But the law is different in Virginia from the Englifh law,.
in refpe& to the proceedings on executions.

By the a' of affembly refpeaing executions, reviled
code p. 309. Sec. 12 and 13, the officer, on all executions,
having. publithed notice of the time and place of fale, ten
days before fuch fale,'"bhallproceed to fell by au~tion the
!; goods and chattels fo taken, or fo much thereof as fhall
cc be fufficient to fatisfy the judgment or decree, for the
It beft price that can be got for the fame." Here it is evident that the legiflature did not contemplate the cafe of
money itfelf being liable to be taken on execution; for they
have made it the duty of the officer, in all cafes of execuBut the next
tion, to advertife and/ell the goods taken.
fetion is ftill itronger, for it provides "cthat if the owner
of filch goods and chattes fhall give fufficient fecurity
"to ftich fheriff or officer, to have the fame goods -and
chattels forthcoming at the day of fale, it fhall be law"ful for the {beriff or officer to take a bond from fuch

debtor and fecurities, payable to the creditor, reciting
the fervice of fuch execution, and the amount o(money
" or tobacco due thereon, and with condition to have the
goods or chattels forthcoming at the day of fale appointed by fuch fheriff or officer, and fhall thereupon
-fuffer the faid goods and chattels to remain in the poft
and' at the rifk of the debtor until that time.""
"feffion,
It would be abfurd to fupp6fe an officer obliged to appoint a day of fale for felling money ; yet the giving of a
forthcoming bond is a right which the debtor has by !aw;
heis entitled to the delay on giving the fecurity required.
But the bond cannot be taken unlefs a day of fale is ap-.
pcinted, becaufe there can be no otber day on which the
"

DECEMBER, 18oL.

bond can become f9 rfeited. Hence then it is clear that TuNvii
'.
the legiflature went upon the ground that money could
not be taken onan execution, or they would have except- FzN6ALL.
ed fuch a cafe from the general words of the law. But
if money was liable to-be taken on afierifacias,'itwas a,.
cafe which muft have often happened,'and could not have
efcaped the recolle&ion of every member of the legifla.
ture.

A ftrong argument arifes from the' want of adjudged
cafes on this point, and the total deficiency of precedent
in praaice within our own knowledge.
In the cafe of efrmii/ead v. Philpot, cited from Doug.
219, Lord Mansfield- confeffes that there are old cafes
which fay that money cannot be taken in execution, even
though, found in the defendant's fcrutoire, and does diot
cite any cafes to the contrary. It is true, he fays, the reafon given is a quaint one, but he does not fay it was not
good. In that cafe the money levied for the debtor was
ordered to be paid by the fheriff to the creditor who had
an execution, but there was no oppofition except as.to the
attorney's fees on the firft execution, which were compromifed, and the court "nd bar agreed that the motion
was of thefrl imperfflon.
2d.

But, fecondly, th is was not the money of Fendall

until it was paid to him ; and therefore if the law be, as

is.contended, that money of the debtor may be taken in
execution, yet the principle does not apply to this cafe.

By the receipt of the money by the fieriff, Fendall did
not become entitled to the individual pieces of coin. The
remedy againft the officer was not detinue or trover, but

an a&ion of debt or on the cafe. The ofilcer became the
debtor of Fendall for fo much money, and there is no reafon why it fhould be more liable to an execution in the
hands of the fergeant, than in thofe of any other individual ; it was neither the goods nor chattels of Fendall but a
mere chofe in adion. Fendall could not dompel the of-

ficer to pay it before the return day of the execution.

If

in the mean time the money had been loft or deftroyed by.

robbery, fire, enemies, lightening or tempeft, it mull have
been the lots of the officer and not of Fendall. The commaand of the writ offiri faciax, according to its form as

SUPREME

XtI&URT V. 8.

'!

ftsix preferibed by the a~l of afembly, (r,.fed edo, . lad) is
• '.
" that you have the faid fum of raoney bort thtjudge, of
F1SD4.L. " ourfaid court, the
day of
to render to the faid
cc (creditor,) of the debt and damages aforefaid." And thd
form of the return contained in the fame aa, P. 307, is)

( by virtue of this writ to me direded,I have ctufed to
be made the within mentioned fum of
of the
" goods and chattels of +he within named A. B. wwhich
"

" faid fain of
before the judges 'within mentioned, at
c the ay and place within contained, I hive reddV, as that
i vrit requires."

The form of the writ and return is the bell poffible evidence othe duty of the ofliceri He is obliged to have
the money"in court, to be there paid to the creditor ; and
nothing-will excufe him from an exa& compliance with
the commend of the writ, but payment to the perfoh
named as c'reditor in the executio, ; and even this not a's a
riatter of right but of favor.

In the cafe of Rek

'o. Bird

cited from 2 Shover 8,7, it is only faid that a payment to
the party will be allo'wed by the court, and the reafon given
is becaufe the plaintiff is thereby fatisied. " But this is
" only by permiffion of the'court and not by force of the
ilaw." *2Bac. ab 352. 'Now if the plaintiff is notfatisfied,
the reafon fails, and confequently the rule does not hold
good. In 2 Bac. gb 352, it is faid, "injlrihnefs the mo" ney is to be brought into court."
In the cafe of Canon v. Smallwood, 3' Lev. 203, 204, it

is faid that'the payment of the money to the plaintiffwas
by permiflion of the court, not ex rigor, juris ; and the
court often orders the fheriff to bring the moneyinto court,
and .4oes not permit the plaintiff to have it ; of Which
pciwer the court would by this means be deprived.
In the cafe of Benfon v. Fkwer before cited from 3 "Cro.
166, 176, it is exprefsly ifated that the money, at the time
of the bankruptcy, being in cuiflodia legis, that is, in the
hands of thefheriff, was not the property of the bankrupt,
an did not become fo until he received it.
And in the
cafe of At mlehdand Philpot the money was firft brought
into court, and there ordered by the court to be paid to the
fecond creditor, on ajidavit,that other goods and chattels
could not. be found. This cafe fhews, as ftrongly as pof-

DECEMBER,

8oi.

129

Nble, the neceffity of the fheriff's obeying the command
of the writ in bringing the money into court, inrifead of
paying it over to the creditor out of court, becaufe other-

wife the a& of the h'eriffwould deprive the court of the
power of making fuch an order, and might, in many cafes,
deptive the debtor of the opportunity of obtaining fpeedy
jufaice, on a motion to quafh the execution for irregularity or any other caufe. Befides, the fheriff might go on and
levy for one creditor after another, until the whole fum
fliould be fwalloired up in his commiffions.
No cafe can be found in which it has been permitted
to be done at the diferetion of the fh.riff, and yet it is a
cafe which mut happen in every day's pra&ice if it could
be done.
The Chief Yuflice delivered the opinion. of the court.
This was a motion made by the defendant in error
againft the now plantiff in the circuit:tourt at Alexandria,
under an a& of the Virginia affembly, which declares
that - if any fheriff, under fheriff or other oflfcer, fhall
cc make return on any writ of fieri facias or venditioni
" exponas, that he hath levied the debt,'damages or coils
"as in fuch writ is required, or any part thereof, and
"Thall not immediately pay the fame :to the' party to
" whom the fame is payable,'or his attorney," " it fhall
" and may be lawful for the creditor at.whofe fuit fuch
" writ of fieri facias or venditioni exponas,"., fhall if"fue, upon a motion made at the next fucceeding -gene9ral court, or other court from whence fuch Writ fhall
" ifflue, to demand judgment againift fuch fheriff, officer or
"4 under.ieriff, or fecurities of fuch under fheriff, for the
"money ot tobacco mentioned in fuch writ, or fo much as
Sflhall be-returned, levied on fuch writs," " with intereft
V thereon at the rate of ;5 per cenurn per annum from
"fthe return day of the execution, until the judgment
"cfhall be difcharged;, nd fuch court ij hereby authorized
"cand rdquired to give judgment accordingly, and. to
"t'award execution thereon ; 'provided fuch fheriff or ofliItcer have ten days previous notice' of fuch motion. ' !
That Turner had beerl fergeant of the town of Alexandria,
and had returnedon a writ 6f fieri facias, ifl'ued on a judg-

ment rentered by the court of huffings for that corporaR

TukxEia
'V.
FhNDA LL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TURNEI
IV.
FENDALL.
'againft

tion,
of Philip Richard Fendall, that he ha4
made in
thefavour
debt and had levied thereon a writ of fieri facias iffued on a judgment obtained by William Deneat
Robert Young and Phillip R. Fendall ,merchants,
trading under the firm of Robert Young and Co.
Before the next fucceeding term of the court of huftings would have arrived, that court was abolifbed, and. all
its powers and duties transferred to the circuit court of the
diftriE% of Columbia for the county of Alexandria.
To the firft term of the circuit court notice was given
that a judgment would be moved for, and the notice was
figned " Philip Richard Fendall, for the truftees of the
faid Philip Richard Fendall."
The defendant did not appear to the notice, and it was
continued to the fucceeding term, when the parties apeared, and the defendant, to prove that P. R. Fendall
ad taken the oath of an infolvent debtor and was thereupon difcharged,offered in evidence a warrant figned William herbert and R. Weft, difcharging the faid Philip
R. Fendall out of cuftody, as an infolvent debtor, and
further offered to prove the hand writing of the faid Herbert and Well, and alfo to prove, by oral teftimony, that
the faid Philip Richard Fendall did take the oath of an
infolvent debtor before the faid William Herbert and
Roger Weft, and that they were on the 21 ftof March,
i 8oo, the time of adminiftering the faid oath and granting the faid certificate, magiftrates for the county of
Fairfax. This teftimony was reje&ed by the court as
not being legal evidence to eftablifh the fa&, and to this
opinion an exception was taken.
The defendant alfo offrred to flew that the truftees of
Philip R. Fendall were not entitled to the money'levied
by virtue of the execution mentioned in the notice, which
teftimony was likewife reje&ed by the court; and, to
this opinion alfo, a bill of exceptions was taken.
The defendant then produced the execution iffued in
favour of Deneale v. Robert Young and Philip R. Fendall, merchants, trading under the firm of Robert Young
and Co. with the return thereon, (howing that it had.

DECEMBER, i ox.
been levied on the money of Philip R. Fendall then in TvsNEV.
v.
his hands, and alleged that the officer had a right and
was bound to levy the faid execution on the faid money, FE OAL.
but the court was of opina"n that he had not a.right fo
to do, and to this opinion alfo an exception was taken.
The court then propeeded to iender judgment, or) the
notice, for the plaintiff; to which judgment a writ of error has been fued out of this court; and the errors affigned and relied opi are,
ift. That the court for the county of Alexandria. was
not empowered to render judgment in this cafe at any
term fubfequent to that next fucceeding the return of the
execution.
2dly. That the teftimony offered to the court to prove
the infolvency of Philip R. Fendall, and rejeded, was
legal .teftimony to prove the fq& for which it Was adduced, and ougbt therefore to have been admitted.
3dly. That -the .fendant in the court below ought
to have been permitted to prove the truftees of Philip R.
Fendall not entitled to receive the money to recover
which the notice was givec, and,
4thly. That the officer had a right.to levy the execution of Deneale on the money of Philip R. Fendall in
his hands.
To frpport the firft error afligned, .the words of the
a&t of affembly giving the. motion have been relied on as
cnly empowering the court to render judgment in this
fummary mode, at the term flext fucceeding that to
which the execution has been returned.
That is, that althoughthe plaintiff has brought his cife
rightly into court, yet if, from any caufe whatever, the
court fhall be unable to renderi judgment at the lirft
term, the fuit muft be difmiffed and the plajntiff muft
lofe his remedy. The words niuft be very plin indeed
which will force a court to put upon them fo irrational
a c'onftruaion as this. Oa recurrence to the a& relied
on it does not appear that a reftri&ion fo unufual and fo
unjuft in itfelf, has been impofed. The words '" fuch
court," on fair conftrution, refer to the court in which

SUPREME COURT
TURNER

'v.
FEw'ALL.

TJ.

S.

the motion has been made, and not to the term to which
notice was given. The difficulty therefore which would
have prefented itfclf, if the notice had been given to a
term fubfequent to that next fucceeding the return of the
execution, has no exiffence'in this cafe.
In confidering the fecond error affigned, the court was
fatisfied that the proceedings before magiftrates, in cafes
of infolvent debtors, are entirely matters in pais and are
therefore to be proved by parol and other teftimony. The
evidcice offered was certainly legal evidence to eftablifh
the fa a for which it was adduced. The court however
is not fatisfied of its fufliciency ; but without determining
that queftion, and without determining whether. in.a cafe
where there is no jury, a judgment ought, for the rejeCtion
of teftimony which was admiffible in law, to be reverfed
in any itAte of things, or the caufe fhould be confidered
as if the teftimony had been received ; it is the opinion
of all the judges, that the party is boind to fhow the
relevancy of the fae intended to be eflablifhed, to the cafe
before the court.
In the prefent'caufe th6 fad to be eftablifhed was the
infolvency of .endall, which infolvency is not fhown to
have been material in the cafe, fince nothing appears in
the record to induce an opinion that the proceeding could
have been in any other name than nis.
Although then the teftimony rejeCted was proper and
legal evidence towards eftablifhing the fad, yet the court

committed no error in rejefting that teftimon), for which
their judgment ought to be reverfed, becaufe the fa&
does not aplear to have been relevant to the caufe under
their confideratioi.
'On the third error affigned, the opinion of the court is,
that.whoever might in equity. be entitled to the money, or
to the ufe of Fendall's name, the notice as given could only be fuftained by fl-owing the legal right of Fendall to recovr. A legal right in the truftees would have defeated
the aCtion, for it is inftituted in the name of Philip R.
Fendall, although it may be' for the benefit of his truftees,
-and n*either the reverfal or affirmance of this judgment
would iffe& the right of the truftees to proceed in their
own names.

DECEMBER, i got.
The fourth point is one ofconfiderable importance and
difficulty. In difcuffing it two queftions have been made
at the bar.
ift. Can an execution be levied on money?
2dly. Can it be levied on money in the hands of the officer ?
The principle that an execution cannot be levied on money.has been argued to be maintarna Ale under the authority of,adjudged cafes, and under the letter and meaning
of the a& of the Virginia legiflature on the fubjel of executiotns.
Lord
Yet no fuch adjudged cafe has been adduced.
Mansfield, in the cafe cited from Douglafs 2 19, faid "he
- believed there were old cafes where it had been held that
"the fheriff could not take rmoney in e3Xecution evep though
" found in the deiendant's fcrutoire, and that a quaint
"*reafon was given for it, viz. that money could not be
.c fold," and it is believed that there may be fuch cafes,
.but certainly there are alfo cafes in which the contrary
do6trine has been held. In 2d Shower i66, it is laid down
exprefsly that money may be taken on a levarifacias,and
'no difference in this refpea is perceived between the two
it is alfo fla1
forts of execution. In Dalton's Sherif 145,
ted in terms that money may be taken in execution on a
fieri~ facas. The court can perceive no reafon in the nature of 'the thing why an execution fhould not be levied
on money, That given in the books, viz. that it cannot
be fold, feems not to be a good one. The reafon of a fale
is that money only will fatisfy the execution, and if any
thing elfe be taken it muft be turned into money ; but
furely, that the means of converting the thing into money
.need not be ufed, can be no .adequate reafon for refufing
to take the very article to produce which is the fole objeft
ofthe execution.
The aa of affembly concerning executions has alfo
.been relied on as fhowing that only fuch articles can be
taken as may be fold. But the provifions of the aat can
only be confidered as regulating the fale of fuch articles as
in their nature require to be fold, and not as exempting

TuRNEI

1,.
FrNDA

L.

SUPREMA1
TuRNER

'-,
FENDALL.
'"

'

11.
CoMT

S.

from execution fuch property as need not be fold. The
obje& is not the fale but money, and if the money can be
made without a fale it cannot be unlawful to do fo. But
in the cafe of an qxecution'for tobacco money may be fold,
and therefore may be executed, and it would be ftrange if
by an execution ordering ; fheriff to make money, money
could not be taken, and yet might be taken on an execution
ordering him to make fome other article,
It is the opinion of the court that money may be taken
in execution, ifin the poffe on ef the defendant; but thi
queftion of greater difficulty is, whethet it may be takeni
by the officer before it has been paid to the perfon entitled
to receive it.

The general rule of law is that all chattels, the property
of the debtor, may be taken in execution, and whenever
an officer has it in his power to fatisfy an execution in
his hands, It is his duty to do fo, and if he omits to perform his duty he muff be accountable to thofe who may
be injured by the omiffion. But has money, not yet paid
to the creditor, become his property ? That is, although
his title to the fum levied may be complete, has he the actual lkgal ownerffiip of the fpecific pieces of coin which
the officer may have.received ? On principle the court
conceiVet that he has not this ownerfhip. The judgment
to be fatisfied is for a certain fum, not foi the fpecifib
pieces which confitute that fum, and the claim of the cr&ditor on the fheriff feems to be of the fame nature with
his claim under the judgment, and one which may be
fatisfied in the fathe manner. No right would exift to
pu.fue the fpecific pieces received by the officer, although
they (hould even have an ear mark, and an aion of debt,
not of detinue, may be brought againft him if he fails to
pay over the fum received, or converts it to his own ufe.
It feems to the court that a right to fpecific rieces of money can only be acquired by obtaining the legal or a'lual
poffeffron of them, and until this is done there can be no
fuch abfolute ownerflip as that an execution may be levied
on them. A right to a fum of money in the hands of a
flieriff can no more be feized than a right to a fum of money in the hands of any other perfonf and however wife
or juft it may be to give fuch a remedy, the law does not
•appear yet to have given it. The diatum of judge Bul-

DFCEMBER, i8ox.

135

ler, in th cafe in'i Durnford arid Eaft 370, proves that the Tvkwza
mere poffeflion of money, as a truftee, does riot give to F V.
th; poffeffor, before a converfion, fuch a property in it, F,)ALL.
as to render it liable for his debts ; hbut does not 'manifeft
an opinion that the perfon for .whofe ufe it was received)
but to whofe poffiffion it has not come, is to be confidered as the legal owner of the fpecific pieces thernfelves, fo
that they have become, in contemplation of.law, his.
goods and chattels. Indeed it is obfervable in that cafe,
that if the money had been due to the parifh at the time
the bankruptcy of the defendant, who-was'an overfeer of
the ppor, took place, the parith would have been in no
better condition than other creditors, and would have poffeffed no exclufive property in the money claimed.
Although the diitum of judge Bullet may appear to
militate fomewhat againft this pofition, yet the principle
of the decifion is in its favor, for the judgment of the
court is declared to be founded on the faa that the deIt
was not a debt till after the bankruptcy.
Thetcafe cited from 3 d Croke, x66, 176, exprefsly tates
the property of the money while in the hands of the fheriff,
not to be in the creditor S and although the inference of
the court from that principle does not appear to have
been warranted, yet the principle itfelf is believed to be
certainly corre&l.
In the cafe of Armiftead v. PhiIpot, Doug. 219, the
court direted the money of the debtor to be paid to the
creditor, whofe execution was in the hands of the fheriff
holding that money alfo i but this direffion would have
been tinneceffary if the fheriff had poffeffed a previous
right to make the appropriation.
It is iftated in Barnes' notes, 214, to have been adjudged
in trinity term, 3 2d and 3 3d of George 2, in the cafe f Staple v. Bird, where a fheriff had levied an execution onr
money in his hands, that he fhould, notwithfanding this
execution, pay the money to the perfon entitled to the benefit of the firft judgment. It is true that in that cafe
the perfon in whofe name the judgment was rendered, was
not entitled to the money received under it, but the cafe
is not ftated to, have been decided on that principle ; and

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TuRNi

'v.
FENDALL.

Y

the very frequency of fuch a flate of- things furniflie; aargument of no inconfiderable weight againft the right to

levy an execution on money fo circumft.gnced

The equi-

table right of perfons, whofe names do not appear in the
execution, ought to be preferved ; and confiderable injuftice might refult from impofing on the fheriff the duty of
deciding at his peril on fuch rights.
Confidering the cafe then either on principle or authority, it appears to the court that the creditor has not fuch
a legal property in the fpecific pieces of money levied for
him and in tle hands of the fheriff, a to authorize that
officer to take thofe pieces in execution as the goods and
chattels of fuch creditor
But the money bec6mes liable to fuch execution the inftant it (hall be paid into the hands of the creditor ; and it
then becomes the duty of the officer to feize it. It appears
unreafonable that the law (hould direct a payment under
fuch circumitances. If the money fhall be feized the inftant of its being received by the creditor, then the payment to him feems a vain .and iifelefs ceremony which
might well be difpenfed with; and if the. nioney fhould,
by being fo paid, be withdrawn from the power of the,
officer, then his own aa would put beyond his reach,
property rendered by law liable to his execution, and
which of confequence the law made it his duty to feize.
The abfurdity involved in fuch a conftrution led the
court to a further confideration of the fubject.
The'mandate of a writ of fieri .facias as originally formed, is that the officer hgve the money in court on the return day, there to he paid to the creditor. Forms'of writs
furnifh ftrong evidence'of what.was law when they were
devifed, and. of the duty of the officer to whom they are
directed. Originally it was regularly the duty. of the officer to have the money in court, and it has been held,
that not even payment to the creditor himfelf could excufe
the non-performance of this duty. The rigor of this rule
has been confidernbly relaxed, but the form of the writ,
as directed by a late act of the legiflature of Virginia, yet
is, that the money (hall be in court on the return day,
:and thereappears no excufe for omitting this duty, unlefs

DECEMBER, i8ox.
it iball have been paid to the creditor. The flieriff may TuRNIM
certainly make fuch payment out of court, if no circumI.
ftance occuirs which legally obitructs or oppofes it, fuch FENDALL.
as an injunction from the court of chancery, in which cafe,
fby the law of Virginia, the money muft b6 returned or an
execution againft the goods and chattels of the perion to
whom the money in his hands fhall be payable. In the
latter cafe it feems to the court Pcill to be the duty of the
iferiff to obey the order of the writ and to bring the money into court, there to be difpofed of as the court may
dire&. This was done in the cafe of Armyead v. Philpot, and in that cafe the court "diredted the money to be
paid in fatisfaaion of the.fecond execution. This ought
to- be done whenever the legal and equitable right to the
money is in the perfon whofe goods and chattels are liable to fuch execution.
In the cafe of Turner and Fendall, the fherifTnot having.
brought the money into court, but having levied an execution on it while in his hands, has not fufficiently juftifled the non-pa) ment of it to the creditor ; and iberefore
the court committed no error in rendering judgment
againit him on the motion of that creditor. If the payment
of the damages fhould be againft equity, that was npt a
fubje& for the confidetation of the court of law which
rendered the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
WILLIAM MARBURY
v.

JAMES MADISON,

SECRETARY OF STATE
OF THE UNITED STATES.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

AT

the laft term, viz. December term, X8or,
William Marbury, Dennis Ramfay, Robert Townfend
Hooe, and William Harper, by their counfel, Charles
Lee, efq. late- attorney general of the United States,

S

MARIlURY

v.
MADISON.

