FEBRUARY, 1803.

365

" premifes to him the faid Samuel Dexten and his fuecef-

HIODGSON

q;.
"firs," &c.-fhowing, that to the knowledge of the leffor,
if Mr. Dexter ihould go out of office the next day, the DExTER.
fucceffor to the war department would fucceed atfo to
the occupancy of the office.

The covenant for quiet enjoyment during the term is
with the faid Samuel Dexter and his fiicaJfrs, and is,
that.they, as well as he, flhall enjoy.
The covenant on the part of Mr. Dexter, on which
the fuit is brought, is for himfelf and his fuiccrfonr.
The whole face of the agreement then manifefts very
clearly a contra& made entirely on public account, withleffee, to the
out a view, on the part of either the leffor oir
private advantage or refponfibility of Mr. Dexter.
The only circumftance which could excite a doubt Was
produced by the technical operation of the feal. This,
in plain reafon and common fenfe, can make no difference
in defignating the perfon to be refponfible for the contra& ; and fo it has been determined in the cafe cited
from the 'i

Term rep. 674, (UOzwin v. Wolfeley.)

The ceuit is unanimoufly and clearly of opinion, that
this contradt was entered into entirely on ,behalf of government, by a perfon properly authoized to make it,
and that its obligation ison the government only.
Whatever the claims of the plaintiff may be, it is to
the government,- and not to the defendant, he muft refort to have them fatisfied.
Judgment aflirmed wvith cgs.

LLOYD

LLOYD v. ALEXANDER

ET AL.

,v.
AL EXANDER
ET AL.

THE writ of error iWthis cafe was quafhed be- accompany
A citation muff
the
trror.
writ of
caufc it was not accompanied by a cntation.

366

SUPREME COUTRr U. s.

Marall, Chiefjuflice. The law refpeating the thirty
days notice on a writ of error, and the ten days allowed
ALZXAN DER for filing it, was predicated upon the exifting ftate of
thnsathtieo
STAL.
things at the time of paffing the a& ; at which time
there was no circuit court whofe term would not be finilhed more than forty days before the fetting of th$ fupreme court.
LLOYD
ALI

The times of the fefion of the courts have been altered,
but no alteration has been made in the law refpeCling the
thirty days notice, which makes it difficult to form a rule
in the cafe.
At prefent, if the citation has not been ferved thirty
days, the court will not take up'the caufe until the thirty days have expired, unlefs the defendant in error fhall
appear.
A citation not ferved is as no citation.

