FEBRUARY, 1803.
" It is therefore the opinion of fle court that this ac-

MAN91.

& AL.
" tion is not maintainable and that the judgment ought VILLEIV.
"to ke reverfed."O
RIDDLXt
& AL.

STUART v.LAIRD.

STUART

ERROR from the Sth circuit in.
the Virginia dif-

An a&ion of covenant was brought in January 180

L.A I RD.
I RD.

A caufe may,
by a& of con.
tranone
grefs, be
1, ferred
from

from n
in " the court of the United Statesfor the middle circuit in the
,,Virginia di/Irit," by John Laird, a citizen of the ftate to another.
of Maryland, for and on behalf of Laird and Robertfon A contempora"

of port Glafgow aiid fubjeds of the king of Great Bri-iry expofition of
conftitution,
pra&ifed
and
tain, againft Hugh Stuart, a citizen and inhabitant of the
acquiefccd unthe ifate of Virginia.
der for a period
At the rules inFebruary, z8o i,there was an office ofthyears,cfie
judgment againft the defendant for damages, &c. "which tion; and the
9 damages," fays the record, " are to be enquired of and court will not.
or co" affeffed by a jury to be fummoned by the mirfhal, and ihake
trol it.
States
" impannelled before the next court of the United
" for the middle circuit in the Virginia di/rit, which comcmences on the 22d day of May next enfuing, and fo the
" cailfe aforefaid flood continued, by virtue oft the.Jflatute
" infuch cafe made and provided, until the court of the Uni" ted Statesfor thefourth circuitin the Virginia di/rit7, con"tinuedby adjournment and holden at the capitol in the
city of Richmond aforefaid, on Thurfday the t 7th day
of Decvber i8o; ; at which day, to wit, at a court of
"the United States for the fourth circuit in the eaqjern
cdiftri& of Virginia, continued by adjournment, and
" holden at the capitol in the city aforefilid, before the
" honorable the judges of the faid court, came as well,
'o/ime of reportt.
See note (A.) in tAr apPendix to this

SUPREME COURT U. S.
STUAfT.

T' *
LAIRD.

L

"the plainfiff," &c. ana the office judgment being fet afide,
and iffue joined upon the plea of covenants performed,
there was verdidl and judgment for the plaintiffs ; upon
which, afierifaciasiffued reciting, in the ufual form, the
judgment recovered " in the court of the United States for
te thefourth circuit in the ea/lern Virginia diqria," and returnable. " before the judges of the faid court at Rich" mond, in the eaftern Virginia diftrift,' on the 26th day
" of April next." it Witnefs Philip Barton Key, efq. chief
"judge of the faid court."
Theo return on this execution was as follows, viz.
"Executed on' Maria and child, Paul, Jenny, Selah,
"Kate, and Anna, and a bond taken with Charles L.
" Carter fecprity, for the delivery thereof at the Eagle
" tavern, in the city of Richmond, on the 29th day of
4 April, i8o2, the condition of which was-not compli-.
S".ed with.
Bin. Moley, 1" M. for

.os.

Scott, Ml. E. V. D."

The record then goes on to flate, cc that heretofore,
ic to w", at a court of the United States for the fifth circuit,
continued by adjournment, and held at the capitol, in
"cthe city of Richmond, in the di/lritl of Virginia, before
" the. honorable the chief.julice of the United States, on
" Thurfday, the 2d of December, 1o2, came Johri
"Laird, on behalf of Laird and Robertfon, by Daniel
Call, gent. his attorney, and moved the faid court for
"juigment and award of execution againit Hugh Stuart
and Charles L. Carter, upon a bond entered into by
"them for the forthcoming and delivery of certain pro"perty therein mentioned to the marfhal of the eafitern
" Virginia diftricq, on the day and at the place of fale,
" which was taken by virtue of a writ of firi facias if" fued from' the cdurt of the United States for the fourth
of circuit in the eaftern Virginia diftri&, againft the eftate
CC
of the defendant Hugh Sttart, which bond is in the
- words and figures following, to wit," &c. the condition
of which refers to the fieri facias fued out of the court of
the. United States for the fourth circuit in the eaflern VirSinia dyri,.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

301

The defendants appeared and " flhowed as caufes why
"c the faid execution thould not be awarded,

STUART
AV.
LAIRD.

ft. That the motion is authorized by no law of the "r'United States and by no part of the common law, and
hath been hitherto in fimilar inftances, or fuch as are nearly fimilar, ufed and admitted, and awards of execution,
fuch as that now prayed for, made in the courts of the
United States upon the conftrudion of an ad of congrefs
"

I

approved on the 24 th day of September, 1789, by virtue
of which awards of execution in fuch cafes have heretofore been made in the faid courts, agreeably to an a& of
the general affembly of Virginia, paffed on the roth day
of December, 1793: and the faid defendants do aver
that the faid ad of congrefs doth not make the laws of
the feveral ftates rules of decifion in the courts of the
United States in any cafe whatever, except in trials, at
common law; and that no decifion which can be given
on the faid motion will be a decifion in a trial at common
law.
"2dly. That the faid ad of the general affembly of Virginia is in derogation of the common law, and deprives
the citizen of trial by jury, and that the terms in all fuch
adls preferibed ihould be regularly and ftridly obferved by
all fuch as would intitle them felves to the benefit thereof,
which hath not been done by the plaintiff in the prefent
motion; firft, becaufe agreeably to the faid at, on forfeiture of fuch bond, the officer, who hath taken the fame,
Thall return the fame to the office of the court from whence
the execution iffued, the levying whereof gave him' aut
thority to receive the fame ; and that fuch court may, upon motion of the perfon to whom it is payable, after the
obligor hath failed in the performance of the condition

there6f, award an execution thereon ; but neither the
faid ad of affembly or congrefs, nor any other ad of affembly or congrefs, or part of the common law, doth give
fuch power to any other court; and the faid defenidant
avers that it appears on the face of the notice grounding
the plaintiff's motion, that the execution whereon the
fame was taken, was iffued from the office of the court
of the United States for the fourth circuit in the eaftern
Virginia diftrid, ,here the judgment grounding the fame
is there faid to hrve been obtained : And' 2dly, becaufe

'

SUPREME COURT U. S.
STUA T

IV.

LAI

'titled

.

that court doth not now exift, and this horrorable court
is a difFerent court from that court. 3 dly. That the aft
of congrefs paffed on the 29 th day of April, 1,8o2, en" An a& to amend the judicial fyftem of the United
4'States," in fo far as it annihilated the court of the
United States for the fourth circuit in the eaftern Virginia diftri&, wherein the faid judgment was rendered,
is unconftitutional and void, and doth not authorize this
court to award an execution on the faid bond on motion.
" All which matters and things the faid defendant doth
aver as catfes why this honorable court ought not to award
execution on the faid bond on the prefent motion, and
is ready to prove the fame as this honorable court fhall
dire& ; Wherefore they pray judgment whether the court
here will takefurther cognizance of the'faid motion."

To this plea there was a general demurrer and joinder;
and the court below being of opinion that the plea was
infufficient, gave judgment for the plaintiff.
To reverfe that judgment the defendant Stuart fued out
the prefent writ of error ; and the errors affigned were
in fubitance fimilar to thofe alleged in bar of the motion.
C. Lee, for plaintifin erro'.

The act of affembly of Virginia which gives this fummary remedy upon forth coming bonds, allows the'motion

for judgment to be made only to the fame court from
which the execution iffued.
In this cafe the execution ifflued from the court of the
United States for the fourth circuit in the eajfern Virginia
dyilria compofed of judges Key, Taylor, and MGill.

The motion was made to the court of the United States
for the fifth circuit in the Virginia di/riO, holden by the
chief jtlice of the United States.

This is not the fame court from which the execution
iffued. The motion therefore in this court was not regular, unlefs it be made fo by the ais of congrefs of March
8th;'i82.
ck. 8. and 2 9 !h. 4p. i802, c. 3i. The procefs
in this cafe was fummary, and the pleadings, although in

FEBRUAR.Y, 1803.
this inftance they happen to be reduced to writing, are
in fa& ore tentir. A pofition will be taken the dire& r verfe of that contained in the fecond point of the plea
mentioned in the trantcript of the record.
The court of thefifth circuit ought not to have taken
cognizance of the motion; becaufe the court of the
fourth circuit did-exift, and not becaufe it did not exift,
as alleged in the plea.
If the a&s of 8th March and 29 th April, 1802, are
conftitutional, then it is admitted there is no error in the
judgment; becaufe, in that cafe, the courts ceafed to
exift, the judges were conftitutionally removed, and the
transfer from the one court to the other was legal. But if
thofe a&s are unconftitutional, then the court of the
fourth circuit fill exifts, the judges were not removed,
and the transfer of jurifdiction did not take place. The legiflature did not intend to transfer caufes from one exffi7
ing court to another. If then the courts ftill exift, the
caufes, not being intended to be removed from exifting
courts, were not removed.
But we contend that thofe aas were unconftitutional
fo far as they apply to this caufe.
if. The firft aa (March 8, i8o2) is unconftitutional
in as much as it goes to deprive the courts of all their
power and jurifdi&ion, and to difplace judges who have
been guilty of no mifbehaviour in their offices.
By the conflitution the judges both of the fupreme and
the inferior courts are to hold their offices during good
behaviour. So much has been recently faid, and written and publifhed upon this fubjed, that it is irkfome to
repeat arguments which are now familiar to every one.
There is no difference between the tenure of office of
a judge of the fupreme court and that of a judge of an
inferior court.. The reafon of that tenure, to wit, the
independence of the judge, is the fame in both cafes i
indeed the reafon applies more ftrongly to the cafe of the
inferior judges, becaufe to them are exclufively afligned
cafes of life and death.

STUART

IM
LAIRD.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
STUART

7.
LARD.

Y

It is admitted that congrefs have the power to modify,
increafe or diminifh the power of the courts and the
judges. But that is a power totally different from the power to leftroy the courts and to deprive them of all power
and jurifdi&ion. The.one is permitted by the conftitution, the other is reftrained by the regard which the con'hey
ftitution pays to the independence of the judges.
may modify the courts, but they cannot deftroy them, if
thereby they deprive a judge of his office. This provifion
of the conftitution was intended to place the judges not
only beyond the reach of executive power, of which the
people are always jealous, but alfo to fhield them from
the attack of that party fpirit which always predominates
in popular affemblies. That this was the principle intended to be guarded by the coriftitution is evident, from
the cotemporaneous expofition of that inftrument, publifhed under the title of The Federaliyl, and written, as
we all know, by men high in the efteem of their country.
kederai/j/, vol. 2. No. 78.*
Mr. Lee alfo cited and read the fpeeches of Mr. Madifon in the convention of Virginia, (Debatex,.vol I.p. 112.)
of Mr. Nicholas, (vol. i.p. 32. and voL 2. p. 152.) and
of Mr. Marfhall, (inp. 125.)
The words duringgood behaviour can not mean during

the 'will of congrefs. The people have a right to the fervices of thofe judges who have been conftitutionally appointed; and who have been unconifitutionally removed
from office. It is the right of the pe6ple that their judges
(hould be. independent ; that they ihould not ftand in
dread of any man who, as Mr. Henry faid in the Virginia convention, has the congrefs at his heels.
To fhow that fuch writings are to be regarded in forming the true
conftrudaion of the conifitution, he read from a newfpaper what was faid
to be an anfwer from the prefident of the United States to an addrefs
from fundry inhabitants of Providence, in which the prefident is fop.
pofed to have faid, I"The conftitution on which our union rAs, fhall be
6'adminiftered by me according to the fafe and honeft meaning c6ntemplatod by the plain underftanding of the people of the United States,
at the time of its adoption; a meaning to be found in the explarations
o of thofe who advhcated, not of thofe who oppofed it ; and who oppofed
,k nicr-ly left the confirudtions Ihould be applied which they denounced
as pMoible. Thefe explanations are praferved ip the publications of the
" timc, and are 'too recent in the memorias of moft men to idmit of
' queftion."

FEBRUARY,

18o3.

It is admitted that the powers of courts and judges STUARt
I.
may be altered and modified, but can not be totally withdrawn. By the repealing law the powers of both are en-, LAIRD.
tirely taken away.
But the laws are alfo unconflitutional, becaufe they impofe new duties upon the judges of the fupr~me court,

and thereby infringe their independence; and becaufe
they are a legiflative inftead of an executive appointment
of judges to certain courts. By the conflitution all civil
officers of the United States, including juoges, are to be
nominated and appointed by the prefident, by and with
the advice and conient of the fenate, and are to be commiffioned by the prefident. The a& of 2 9 th April, 1802,
appoints the "prefent chief ju/lice of the fupreme court,"'

a judge of the court thereby eftablithed. He might
as well have been appointed a judge of the circuit court
of the d;frit of Columbia, or of the Miffiffippi territory. B--fides, as judge of thefijpreme court, he could not
exercife the duties or jurifdidion'affigned to the court of
the fifth circuit, b.,caufe, by the conftitution of the
United States, the fupreme court has only appellatejurifdiction; except in the two cafes where a ftate or a foreign
minifter Chall be a party. The jurifdic-ion of the fupreme
court, therefore, being appellate only, no judge of that
court, asfuch, is authorized to hold a court of original
jurifdiion. No ad of congrefs can extend the.original
jurifdiion of the fupreme court beyond the bounds li..
mited by the conftitution.
A party in this court has a right to have his caufe tried
by fix judges. He has a right to an unbiaffed court, whether the whole fix fit or not. A judge, having tried the
caufe in the court below, and given judgment, mnuft be in
fome meafure committted; he feels an anxiety that hisjudg.
inent fhould be affirmed. The cafe of Clarke and Nightengale,
3 Dal. will illulrate this principle. The fuit was firit
tried before chief jufice Ellfworth, wliofe opinion upon
the merits was in favour of the plaintiff. A writ of
error was brought and the judgment reverfed for error
in pleading, and the caufe remanded to be again tried.
Judge Cufhing heldthe court on the ficond trial, and his
opinion alfo was in favour of the. plaintiff upon the merits.
A fecond writ of error was' brought and tried in the fit-

Q,2

SUPREME COURT U. S.
STVAi"

V'.
t

LAIWD.

V

preme court before chief juftice Ellsworth, judges CNfhing, Patterfon, Walhington, and Chafe, and the judgment was reverfed by the three laft mentioned judges whe
made a majority of the court.
A degree of refped is certainly due to precedents and
paft praffice.. If it be faid that the praftice from the
year 1789 to 18o is againft us ; we anfwer that the practice was wrong, that it crept in unawares, without confideration and without oppofition ; congrefs at laft faw
the error and in Io x they correfed it, and placed the
judicial fyftem on that ground upon which it ought always to have flood. By the at of February 13, 180 ,
the precedent was broken, fo that now precedents are
b6th ways. If there are twelve years practice againft us,
there is one year for is. There has never been a judicial decifion upon the fubje-. The time has now come
when the true conftrudion ought to be fettled.
If the conftrufion is as we contend, then the court
below had no jurifdiion. The power of congrefs to
transfer caufes from one court to another is admitted;
but if the aas of March and April, 1802, are totally unconftitutional, they are void ; the caufes have not been
transferred, and the court of the fourth circuit frill exilts
with all its powers and jurifdiction.
Gantt, contra.
This fuit was originally inflituted in the circit court
which exifted under the law of 1789, and was transferred
by the aat of February 13th, Sos, tothe new circuit
court by that a& eftablifhed. It was afterwards, by the
a& of i 802, re-transferred to the circuit court under the
alft of 1789, fo that if the tranfer by the aa of 18o was
conftitutional, the re-transfer by the a&l of 1802 muft be
equally conftitutional.
No error is relied on but the want of jurifdiCtion.
It is admitted that congrefs have power to transfer the
jurifdiaion of caufes from one inferior court to another;
and therefere the queftion whether they have the power
.to deprive a judge of his office, does not belong to this

FEBRUARY, 1803o

safe. It has nothing at all to do with it. But admitting
for the fake of argument that c6ngrefs have not the latter
power, yet an a& may be conftitutional in part, and unconititutional in part.
Congrefs have an exprefs power by the conftitution to
coniftitute, and, from time to time, to ordain and eftablifh
tribunals inferior to the fupreme court The tenure of
office may be a reftraint in part, to the exercife of this
power, but can not take away altogether the right to alter
and modify exifting courts.
There are not more inflances of independent decifion6
by the judges in England, fince they have become independent of the crown, than before ; for before that time,
we find that judges have been fent to the tower for the
independence of their opinions.
The provifion of the conftitution refpe&ing tenure by
good behaviour was not intended to prote& the judge;
but for the benefit of the people, that judges might, by
the permanence of their offices, be 2lways men of experience and learning. It is admitted by Mr.. Lee, that if
any 'power remained in the circuit court of the fourth
circuit, the a& was conftitutional. But even if the whole
powers were taken away, yet new powers and new duties
might have been given. It does not follow that becaufe
the court is abolifhed, the office of the judge is taken
away. And if the a& of t 802 is unconftitutional, becaufe it abolifhes the circuit courts then exifting, the a&
of i 8o isequally fo by aboliflhing the old cifcuit courts.
But, as was before obfcrved, there is n6 neceflity or wifh
to go into this argument ; it is not pertinent to the prefent
caufe ; for the only queftion here is whether congrefs had
power to transfer the caufe from the fourth to the fifth
circuit court, and not whether the fourth circuit court or
its judges are fill in exiftence.
As to the obje&ion that the law of 17S 9 is unconftitutional, in as much as it gives circuit powers, or original
jurifdiaion, to judges of the fupreme court ; it is molt
probable that the members of the firft congrefs, many of
them having been members of the convention which

SToALt

,V.
LAIRD.

SUPREME COURT V. S.
Sr0AtT

•V.
LA

..

IRD

~v

formed the conftitution, beft knew its meaning and true
comftruffion. But if they were miftaken, yet the acquiefcence of the judges .nd of the people under that conftruaion, has given it a fancion which ought not now to
be queflioned.
Lee, in reply.
The ads of t Qo and iox were not alike in abolifh.
ing the circuit courts. The former, in abolifhing the then
exifting courts, did not turn the judges out of office, or in
any degree affe& their independence ; but the ad of, 8oz
ftrikes off fixteen judges at a firoke, drives them from
their offices, and affigns their dutics to others.
Art error was committed in 1789. That ad was unconflitutional, but the a& of i8oi reftored the fyftem to
its conftitutional limits. We now contend for the pure
coniftrudion of the conftitution, and hope it will be eftablifhed, notwithftanding the precedent to the contrary.
March 2d. Th4 chiefjflice, having tried the caufe in
the court below, declined giving an opinion.
Paterfon,juflice, (judge Cuffing being abfent on account
of ill health,) delivered the opinion of the court.
On 'an adion inftituted by John Laird againit Hugh
Stuart, a judgment was entered in a court for the fourth
circuit in the eaftern diftrid of Virginia, in December
term I8oi. On this judgment, an execution was iffued,
returnable to April term 1o2, in the fame court. In the
term of December 1802, John Laird obtained judgment

at a court for the fifth circuit in the Virginia diftrid,
againft Hugh Stuart and Charles L, Carter, upon their
bond for the forthcoming and delivery of certain property
therein mentioned, which had beeri levied upon by virtue
of'the above execution againft the faid Hugh Stuart.
Two reafons have been affigned by counfel for reverfing
the judgment ori the forthcoming bond. i. That as the
bond was given for the delivery of property levied on by
Siritue of an execution iffuing out of, and returnable to a
couIrt for the fourth. circuit, no other court could legally

FEBRUARY, i80.3.

309

proceed upon the faid bond. This is true, if there be
no fatutable provifion to diredl and authorize fuch proceeding. Congrefs have conflitutional authority to eftablifh from time to time fuch inferior tribunals as they may
think proper; and to transfer a caufe from one fuch tribunal to another. In this laft particular, there are no
words in the conftitution to prohibit or reftrain the exercife of legiflative power.

STUAPtR

IV.
LAIRD.

The prefent is a cafe of this kind. It is nothing more
than the removal of the fuit brought by Stuart againft
Laird from the court of the fourth circuit to th," court of
the fifth circuit, which is authorized to proceed upon and
carry it into full effed. This is apparent from the ninth
fedion of the a& entitled, " an adt to amend the judicial
99 fyftem of the United States," paffed the 29 th of April,
1802. The forthcoming bond is an appendage to the
caufe, or rather a component part of the proceedings.
2d. Another reafon for reverfal is, that the judges of
the fupreme court have no right to fit as circuit judges,
not being appointed as fuch, or in other words, that they
ought to have diftin& commiffions for that purpofe. To
this objeffion, which is of recent date, it is fuflicient to
obferve, that pratice and acquiefcence under it for a
period of feveral years, commencing with the organization
of the judicial fyftem, affords an irrefiftable anfwer, and
has indeed fixed the conftruaion. It is a contemporary
interpretation of the moft forcible nature. This praftical
expofition is too ftrong and obftinate to be fhaken or controlled. Of courfe, the queftion is at reft, and ought not
now to be difturbed.
Judgment ajrmed,

THOMAS HAMILTON
V/.

JAMES RUSSELL.
____HAM

I LT
r0.

D,

ERROR from the circuit court of the diftri t RuSSE'L L.
of Columbia fitting at Alexandria.

