SUPREME COURT IT. S.
upon the laws of particular ftates. This court is to be
governed by.the law of the place vhere the tranfafion
SA Rs's
happened, unle'fs where the laws of the United States
A
,lts.j apply. The court in this cafe are to decide by the laws
as they exift in Maryland ; and there the laws of England
refpedfing bills of exchange and promiffory notes have al,ways been the riles of decifion. We are not in Maryland to be governed by whimfical opinions dravn frofft
either Pennfylvania or Virginia.. Virginia has i6t ben
remarkable for her progrefs in commerce ; and were I to
'form a fy'fem of commercial law, I flbould certainly'n~t
draw it from *thefantaftical opinions adopted in either df
thofe ftates.
iENWCK
IV.

In Englhnd, what is due notice has been and is fettled
and determined to be matter of law to be decided by the
court
On the 2'gth of February, The Court gave the follo*ing judgment.
"9

It is decre ed by the court that the defendants Stricker

and Payfon, not havin'g obtained letters of adminifration
( in the dflriRl f Colimbia, were not competent to main"c

If tain this afion ; and that the circuit court of the
- United States in and for the faid di{ltri& erred in overruling the demurrer. It is therefore cotifidered by the
" court, that the judgment of the faid circuit court, on
" the faid demurrer, be, and the fame is hereby reverfed,
" and that judgment thereon be rendered for the defend" ant in the original alion."'*

THOMPSON v. JAMESON.

THomPSON

Iv.

JAMESoN.
An adion of

ERROR from the circuit court of the diftri&"of
Columbia, fitting in Alexandria.
The reporter was not in court when this judgment was entered, but

debt for £ 86o he has underftoad that the court did not affign the reafons' upon which.
zz z, founded their opinion was grounded; and gave no opinion upon the '4thir poWiWs
on a dccree in Ste Evan. ontills, 67,68, 6,, 70, W 71, as to otic.

FEBRUARY, 1803.

283

Thompfon, in the year 1795, being indebted to Had- THoMpsou

., a perfon refiding out of the juriftdi~ion of the
com ojiwealtb of Virginia, and Hadfield being indebted JMS'
to Jamefon and Brown as partners in merchandize,
•r
the chancery is not
latter obtained from the county court of Fairfax an at- ffuacery
upported bya an

I chment in chancery, in the nature of a foreign attach- decree for
,
t
ay the effeds of Hadfield in the hands of C£ 6o iz x
'rhompfon, under an ad of affembly Of Virginia, en- withinterftfrom
titled " An ad dire'ting the =
.of proceeding in cerain day to
redc
day of render
c courts of equity againit abfent debtors, or other abfent ing the decree.
9 attach- ance
c defendants, and for fettling the proceedings on
But the
variis fatal.
cc ments againft abfconding debtors." Revifed code, p. 122, Upon an atThis a& diretls, , that if in any f.it which tachnentin
6 h. 78;
( hath been or hereafter ihall be commenced for relief in chancer-y under
t equity, in the high court of chancery, or in any other the laws of Virthe ie4c court, againft any defendant or defendants who are out ginia.
cord flated that
" of this country, and others within the fame, having ,, I"
i, op,.
ic
. in their hands effedl of, or otherwife indebted to, fuch co.rt bec
.
of
rty
that . f.
and
the
appearances
or
defendants,
defendant
".
abfentabfentees
.' fuch
be not entered, and(fcurit giveni to the h al.fent
and

gien t

the. debtor) flall

c fatisfaaion of the court, for pefiorming the decrees ; Up- berjorw the de" on affidavit that
defendant or defendants
of tu him.
court
.. filch
...
• '
•if are out creeagain?
"
cc of the country, or that upon -enquiry at his, her, or ,, r' Whe
cc their ufual place of abode, he, fhe, or they could not ther an atio-, be found, fo ag to be ferved witi procefs ; in all fuch of ,lbt will lie
4' cafes the court may make iany order, and require fure- agamnft 1.. for
amount de.
, ty, if it fhalI appear neceffary, to reLftrain the defend- the
creed againft
cc antp in this country from paying, conveying away, or I. H.?

cc
,,
c
-.
C

fecreting the debts by thenm owing to, or the effces in
their hands, of fuch abfent defendant or defendants;
and for that purpofe may order'fuch debts to be paid,
and effets delivered, to the faid plaintiff or plaintiffs,
upon their giving fufficient fecurity for the retuin thereof, to fuch perfons,, ant in fuch manner, as the court
.j' fhall diret." It further provides, that the court fhall
appoint ome day in' tie fucceeding term, for the abfent
d0pendant to enter his appearance, and give fecurity for
perorning tLe decree ; and jhall order ziotice to be publifhed, &c. and if the abfent dbtor fliall not appear and ,give
"fiJ fecurity, within the time limited, the court may
proceed to take fuch proof as the complainant fliall offer;
and it they fbiall thereupon be fatisfied of the juftice of the
-demand, they may order the bill to be taken -as confeffed],
and make fuch order and decree therein as to therh (hajl
feemjuft, and may enforce dueperformance thereof, &c.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THoMPsoN
',.

JAMESON.

In the record of that cafe in Fairfax county court, it is
" that at a court continued and held for the faid
C county, on the r8thday of June, in the year laft mentioned, came the complainants aforefaid, by their attor"ney, and thereupon Jonah Thompfon, in open court,

ftated,

, became fecurity that the faid Yofeph Hadfield /hall perform
" the decree of this court, if againt him ; and on motion of

the faid defendant, Jofeph Hadfield, by his attorney,
the attachment is dl-"harged asto the effe&s in the hands
" of the other defendants." The court, at a fubfequent
"

term, on the i 9 th of November, T 99, decreed, that " it

C having appeared to the fatisfa&ion of the court, that
" the complainants bill hith been duly taken for confef" fed, after his appearance by attorney, and gi~ving fecurity for performing the decree againft him, the' court
"doth adjudge, order, and decree, that'the complainants
" do recover againif the faid Jofeph Hadfield, he fum
" of eight hundred and fixty pounds, twelve {hillings
C and one penny, fterling, (to be fettled in Virginia cur" rency, at the rate of twenty per cent. exchange,) to"gether. with intereft on the fame, at the rate of five
" per cent. per annum, from the 8th day of March, 1795,
4 until the day of pronouncing this decree, and alfo his cols
" by him expended in the profecution of his bill here."

Ijadfield having failed to perform this decree, and
Brown, the partner of Jamefon, being dead,, Jamefon
brought the prefent a&ion of debt in the circuit court of
the diftri& of Columbia, againf4 Thompfon, founded upon his refponfibility as fecurity for Hadfield's performing
the decree. The declaration was'" of a plea that he ren" der unto him the fum of eight hundred and fixty pounds,
" twelve hfillings and one penny, fterliiigi of the value
" of one thotfand and thirty-two pounds,' fourteen flil" lings and fix pence, Virginia currency, equal to three
" thoufand, four hundred and forty-two dollars, and for" tyone cents, United States currency, which to him he
"1 owes, and- from him unjuftly detains ; for this, that
" whereas," &c fetting forth the fubftance of the proceedings on the attachment in Fairfax county court, "and
"whereas afterwards, lhat is to fay, at a court held for
"the faid county of Fairfax, 6n the i8th day of June,
at the county aforefaid, the faid 7onah, in open
court, erame fecu, ity that the faid Jofeph would perfirm
"the decree of the faid court in .thefaidfuit, if againI him,
" 1795,
49

FEBRUARY, 1803.

a85

" In which faid fuit fuch proceedings were had, that the Tnompsoxl
faid court of the county of Fairfax, on the i 9 th day
"*
"of November, that is to fay, at the county of Alexan. JAMESON.
9 dria aforefaid, did adjudge, order and decree, that the
"f aid Robert B. Jamefon and co. fhould recover from
" the faid Jofeph, the faid fum of C. 86o 12 1, fterling,
' (to be fettled in Virginia currency, at the rate of twen"

" ty per cent. exchange,) together 'ivith interdi on the fame,
" at the rate of 5 per centum per annum, from -the 8th'
" day of March,

1795, until the day of pronouncing the

"aid decree, and alfo their colts by them expended in
" the profecution of the faid bill.
All which by the're.
"cord 'thereof, now remaining in the office of the coun4 ty court of Fairfax, will more fhlly and at large appear.
,kAnd the faid Robert B. Jamefon, in fa& avers, that
" the faid Jofeph has not in any manner performed the
" decree of the faid court of Fairfax county, in the cauf¢
0 aforefaid made, in this, that he has not paid to the faid
"Jamefon and co. in the life time of the faid Brown,
"1nor to the faid jamefon, who has fuivived the faid
" Brown, the faid fum of C.86o 12 1 fterling, or-the'
cc value thereof in Virginia currency, at the rate of ex91 change in the faid decree mentioned, with interefl there.
"9 on as awarded by the faid decree; which faid decree, in
" form aforefaid, yet remains in full force and effe&, not
" reverfed or fatislfed; by reafon whereof, atlion accrued
, to the faid Jamefon and co, to demand and have from
" the faid Jonah, thefaidfum f.. 860 12 1,flerling, of
"c the value aforefaid. And the faid Jamefon further avers,
"c that the faid Brown, on the
day of
in
cc the year
departed this life, to wit: at the county
9 of Alexandria. aforefaid, whereby the faid caufe of ac"c tion furvived to the faid Jamefon.
Neverithelefs, the
"faid Jonah thefaidfum of/,. 86o 12 I, flerling, of the
"9 value aforefaid, or any part thereof, to the faid Jamefon
"cc and co. in the life time of the faid Brown, or to the
f aid Jamefon, fince his death, has not paid, &c. to the
"c damage of the faid Jamefon fle hundred dollars, and
- therefore he brings fuit/' &c.
There was-an office judgment at the rules in November, 18o , which was not fet afide at the next fucceeding
court in January, 1 802. At April term, 1802, the de-

fendants counfel moved to fet afide the office judgment on

SUPREME COURT f. S."

86

TuomRtow pleadiog nil drbet. The court boing divided OP the proIV.
priety of that plea to an adion founded- on the record of
JAMESON.
a court of one of the ftates, the plea was not received, ipd
a bill of excaptions was taken by the counfel for the defendant and figned by the judge who was againf th
4dmi1ion of the plea. The pleas of nut tkd record and
ppyment were then filed and iffues made up, on which the
faufe went to trial. The verdi& upon the j,TVe of paypIent was in thefe words, " we of the jury find for the
cplaintiff the debt in the 4eclaration m~ntioned, and one
f( cent damages, to be dicharged by the payment of two
" thoufand, fiye.hundred and forty four 4qllars, forty njn
'4

fents."
,And the defend;nt moved in, 4qrrfe of ji;dgwnit for

the

following reafons,.
4ft. Becqufe the aaion is brought for fterliqg nippey,
when it Rpears by the plaintiff's own fiewing in the detlaration, that the priginal foerling debt has been changed
y the decre of he county court of Fairfax, into the currept naley of Virginia.
d. 13 daufe the plaintiff, in his declaration, 4eclares
foy afTerlng A*, 3nd lays his damages in current mopey.
3 d.

Becaufe'ihe jury have found their dimages in cur-

rent MroOCq uxd have fixed the-fum in current money, at

wvhich thc faid #erling debt might be difchirged.
4 th. Becaufe it doth not appear. by the plaintiff's de•claration what-was the natiure of the defendant's undertaking as fecurity, whether it wa by record, by bond, or by

5.

iecaufe the vhoJe prQceedings gre irregular
siond'anlerroneous.

Thefe reafons not being aeemed fufficient by the court
.below,judgment a renilered for the plaintiff'r
u.
6
.,
fr.
I2.
4- 6. Virgiaia
"crrency, eqal to fhrce thoutnad, four hundred, forty
Ac two dollars and. fofty one- enta.nited States currency,

FEBRUARY, Aot.

it!

".the debt in the declaration wentioned, and one cent daxfa- Tours
.
' ges, by the jurors aforefaid, in fotm aforefaid affieffed,
and alfo his cof's by him about his fuit in thit behalf JA113os.
expended, and the faid defendant in mercy, &c. But
" this judgment (damages and cofts ezcepted,) is to be
. difcharged by the payment of !544 dolhsand 4#
'Cents."

To reverfe this jnidgmeiit, the defendant below fued
out the prefent writ of ertor.
Swannfor plaint47in e'rr..

E.. Lee, and Key for defendant.
Swann.
itf.The declaration does not hew any obligation ow
Thompfvn, upon which this or any other aaion will lay.
2d. If it does, it is not fuch an one as will fupport aft
"haion of debt.
.3 d.

If an afion'of debt will lay, ('ill
this acaion will

not, becattfe it is brought for part of the debt only.
4 th. The affion is brought for flerling money, whereas
it ought to have been brought for Virginia currency.

Sth. If properly brought for fterling money, the court
below ought to have rated the exchange.
ill. "The record fimply ftates, that " the faid Jonah
"(Thomoion).in open court Lecamefecurity '"but does not
fiate how ; whether'by bond, by parol, br by matter of
record. It is only a record declration that he became
.fecurity.
2d. The record fRates, that ne became fec arity that
Hadfield would perform the decree.of the court, if againfl
him ; and not that Thompfon would pay the debt, or
that he undertook to pay any fum of money whatever.
.Nor does it flate that'he 'became bound in any particular

fum.

It does not Rate thathe' undettook to pay the debt

SUPREME COURT U. S.
if Hadfield did not.

There is nothing to fupport an a~bont
of debt. It is, if any thing, a collateral undertaking; and
lay,
it muff be coyenant. ro
JA.M sON, if .anyj adion will
0 fupport
an ad ion of debt, there muff be a dire6t obligation on the
part of the defendant, moving to the plaintifF, to pay a
fertainfum, or a fum which may. be rendered certain;
3 d. The declaration"is for C.£6o. 12. 1. ftering of.the value of C. 1032. 14. 6. Virginia currency, equal to
;441 dollars and 41 cents, United States currency.. 'his
is not the whole debt .dueby the decree: You muff fue
for the wkole debt, or if you fue for a part, you murf ftate
.the jefidue to be fatisfied..

Ti4oMrsoN

*V.

The decree of the-court of.Fairfax was rendered on the
i 9 th of November,'l 799, and was, that the complainants
recover againft Hadfield the fum oQf.86o. 12. i.fterling,
(td be fettled in Virginia currency at. the rate of 2o per"
cent. exchange) togetherwith intere/J on thefame at the rate
of 5 pcr.cent. per annum from the 8th of March., 1795, until
the day*ofpronounczng that decree, ( z 9 th November,) i799,
nd alfo his cois by him expended in.the'profecution of
his bill. The debt was-compofed of the principal fum
reduced to.Virginia currency .at .2oper cent. exchange, and
calculated from
interef thereon at S per.cent. per annum,
Sth of March, 1795; to the i9 th of November 1799, and
coffs. But the declaration is only for- the principal. It
ig therefore only for' a'prt of the.debti and does not ftate
the xefldu6 to be fatisfied. A. debt cannot be dividedi, and
the teaton of the law is, that a mltip lcity.of aei6ns may
be prevented. 3 Modern 41. Maro v. Cutler,. Cro. Jac.
.498, 499, Pehberton v. Shetton.
4 th. The debt was originally "due: from Iladfield in
thrifng •money, but the debt due by the decree is a curkrnt money debt. The. decree has changed it from f.ering ta'currency.

fhall be.fetd.d in cur-,
'!is:an exprefs command that it -.
neqey j-at ,a-certain rate. It i&no longer a.fterling
If n.affion, of debt will lay for it,'it mufthe laid
*kbrt
,ua
.z';&.bt due in Virginia currency.
zit

St:h. Biftif it is a fterling' debt,' then- the court beow,
htfitnd0r the a& ofthe Virginia a Imbly (rev d code,

FEBRUARY, i 8c,.

289

p. 1x2. ch. 77" § 6.) to have fixed the -rate of exchange. Tn6 rsox
I.
The verdid ought to have been fimply for the fterling
debt and damages; but the jury have gone on and faid

that the debt fhoul be difcharged by the paymen.t of
2S44 dollars and.4 9 cents-; and the court have rendered
judgment in'the fame manner, without tLxing the rate of
exchange.
6th. The declaration. ftates the decree to have been
made on the ix9 th of November, but does not fay in what
year. This omillion was fatal on the -plea of "nultie
record.

.E.

7. Leefor defendant in error.

* ift.. The. record ftates the obligation of Thompfon. in
the very words of the at of Affembly. Ii is. the highet.
obligation which he could have entered into. It is an
acknowledgment on record, and is ftronger than his bond.
Its meaning is evident from the intention: of the a¢-t of
Affembly ; and is fimply this, that Hadfield fhould pay.
the money decreed to be due, and if he did not, that
Thompfon Would pay it for him.
2d, To the obje&don that this is not fuch an obli;gation as will ffipport au, adion of debt, the anfwer
i§, that it is in the nature of a recognizance in chancery;
and an adion of debt will lie on fuch. a recognizance,
.gfp.
E

.ax6.
21.

3 d'The cafe in 3.- lod does not apply to the prefent.
There the adion was upon ajudgment. Here.it is upon.
the obligation or recognizance of Thompfon. We have
declared for as much as was due from Hadfieldand no
more. The obligation of T.hompIon was to pay.what
Hadfield fTould fail to pay. Our afitin is forihis. The
record of Fairfax court, which. is made part of the declaration, fhows how-the rcfidae was difcharged.
4 th. The courtof Fairfax did ndt cc:avart the debt into
Virginia curreney. They only fixed the principles on
which -the exchange fhoulo be made The detteei' for
.lerling to be difcharged in current money
certain
'ta rate
* exchange

. - MEo0?.

SUPREME'COURT U. S.

a290
iHOMPSON

IV.
JANAESO.

th. It is the province of the jury and not ofthe court
to lix the value of fterling money.
,.ffaJh.373. 378.
'Barnet and al. v.Watfon and al.
dth Although the year. of the decree'is n'ot ftated in
the declaration, yet enough is ftated to render it certain.
Key was to have argued on the fame fide, but on exainination of the record of the decree in Fairfax, and comparing it with the declaration ; and finding the decree
to be for -'.86.
x2. i. fterling with intereft from a certain day to the dzy of.pafing the decree, and the declaration
being only for the prin-pa4 he tonfidered the variance.
as fatal. He had not before noticed accurately the words.
of the decree, but had fuppofed the intereft did not ftop
at any certain day, but was, by the decree, to run till the
time of payment. Ho did not underftand that this poi it
had been made in. the court below, and therefore had Tk'
before examined the record with a view to it.
The court gave no ,opinion upon the other points, but,
confidering this variance as fatal,
*Revirfed thejudgmeht.
1Te thief juflice obferved, that there was no claufe ivz
the declaration ftating that Thompfon undertook to pay
'if Hadfield did not, and therefore an aation of debt would
not lay.
'MANDEVILLEAND JAMESON

MA NDE.V.

VILLE & AL.

WV.

JOSEPH RIDDLE AND CO.

RIDDLE
& AL.
In Virginia, an
indorfce of a
pronlor oDOteic•
inrfut
o

1

Columb

can not main- of Columbia
tain inadion cae 'brought

i

.. court of the diftri&
from 1the circuit

fitting.at Alexandria, ui an anion on. the

by the defehdant in error for money had and

againfi L reot .rtceirved, which was the only count in the declaratiopi
indorfcr, for
wat of jri;j,.and to

which Ahe defendant pleaded the general iffue.

