DECEMBER. i8ot.
Amelia without falvage is ordered, ought to be reverfed,

TALBO

and that the Amelia and her cargo ought to be reftored
to the claimant, on paying for falvage one-fixth part of
the nett value, after dedudling therefrom the charges
which have been incurred.

Vv.
SEAMAN.

GEORGE WILSON v. RICHARD MASON,
.D.BEIIS.EE OF GEORGE MASON,

WILSON

AND

RICHARD MASON,

DEVISEE OF GEORGE MASON,
1.

GEORGE WILSON,

V.

MASON.
Wafle and utt.

appropriated
lands in Ken
-tucky, iii the

THESE were writs of error to the diflri& court of year

1780,

be
uponi could notappro.
ofKentucky,
the United States, for the diftri& of
land.awfully
priated by furcrofs caveats for the fame trad of land.
vey alone, with-

The caveat of Wilfon v. Mafon originated in the fuout a entry
previous
in
kil• legal
preme court, for the diftri& of Kentucky in.178 5, while
"..
th
e b'ook
en *
..ga
bntr of
oi.
Kentucky was a part of the commonwealth of Virginia, tries.
and the record hates, "cthat heretofore, viz. at akfupreme A writ of error
" court for thediftrid of Kentucky, held at Danville in the upona caveat,
... . ..
lies from the
"sfaid'diftri&, in the month of March, 17785, came George diftridl Court of
"9Wifon and citufed a certain caveat to be entered againft Kentucky dif.
"George -Mafon, which is in the. following words, viz. trid, to the
"Let no grant iffhe to George Mafon, of Fairfax coun- fupreme court
of the United
"ty, for 8,300 acres of land, in Jefferfon county, fur- states,
"veyed on the fouth fide of Panther Icreek, adjoining Notice of an il'19,anotber furvey of the.-faid Mafon's, of 8,400 acres, legal a2, will
"(on the upper fide , becaufe tb-. faid George Mafon has lid keit. a
"furveyed
the fame contrary to his loeation, for. which A fu~vey in

"caufe, and alfo on account of the vaguenefs of the
"entry, George Wilfon claims the fame, or fo much
thereof, as interferes with his entry, made on treafury
"warrants for 40,926 acres, fpecially made on the 9 th
"day of April., 1784. Entered 25 th March, 1785."

itW ercupon, it-o ober term, .178 5, a fummons

iffued, commandingthe

ieriff of Fairfax counity to

Kentucky nok

an
founded
entry, is on
a void
a&and colfi.
rutet notitle
whatever; and

land fofirveyed

remains vacant,
and liable to be
appropriated by

"ffmmon George Mafon to appear at ihe next March any pe' on
a-landterm, to fhew cauf why the 8,300 acres fhould
. not be. holding
warrant.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSOPI

W,

MASOV.

granted to George Wilfon, or fo much as interferes
,, with his entry for 40,926 acres, made-on the 9 th of
cc Apiil,,4£784."
"

Afterwards, and after Kentucky became a feparate
ftate, at a court held for the diftriet of Bairdftown, in
September, 1797, "to which court this fuit had been
"removed, and the faid George Mafon having departed
" this life, the faid fuit was orded to be revived in the
, name of Richard Mafon, the devifee of George Mafon
deceafed,-who was devifee of George Mafon deceafed."
Richard Mafon then removed the caufa from the flate
court Wothe diftrid court of the United States, for the
diftri&l of Kentucky, and it was agreed by the parties,
" that the judgment in this caveat (Wilfon v. Mafon) if
" for the plaintiff, ihould be entered up as a judgment
"for the defendant in the caveat Mafon v. Wilfon: and
if for the defendant, as a judgment for the plaintiff
"n ithe faid caveat Mafohl v. Wilfoq, . which fuits -are
" ctrofs caveats between the parties for the fame land."
"And thereupon came a jury, &c. who, beingeleafed,.
"tried and fworn 'well andtruly to enquire intofucb fals as
"may be material in this catfe, and not agreed to by thepar.
C

ties," found the fpecial verdi,& -herein after ftated.

The crofs caveat of Richard Mafon v. Wilfton was
filed on the 13 th of March, 1799, and feems to be in
the nature of a plea or anfwer to the claim of Wilfon.
It is in the fbllowing form, viz. "Let no.grant iffue to
George Wilfon, or his affignees, on the faid Wilfon's
"furveyof 30,000 acres of land lying in Jefferfon coun"ty (now Nelfon county) on the fouth fide of Panther
" creek,. a branch of Green river, made by virtue of an
" entry dated April the 9 th, 1784, for 40,926 acres,
" upon the five following land-office treafury warrants,
1No. 17,639P 19,043, 19,614, 19,616, and 12,79.
" Richard Mafon, infant heir and devifee of George
" Mafon, junior, who was heir and devifee of George
-cMafon, efquire, late of Fairfax county, Virgina, a ci" tizen of the commonwalth of Virginia, by Cuthbert
" Banks, his next friend, enters a caveat againift the fame
" for the following cautes:
"

" Becaufe the faid furvey includes a tra& of 8,300
acres which had been*before located and entered by the

DECEMBER, i8ot.

47

"f aid George Mafon in the year 1780, and which tra& WILSON
,
" had been a&ually furveyed for him, the faid George
",Mafon, and the certificate of furvey thereof, dated MASON.
" O&ober 2d, 1783, returned to the county furveyor's '
" office long before the faid George Wilfon made his faid
" entry; and becaufe the faid entry, made by the faid
" George Wilfon' on which his faid furvey is founded,
" was illegal and fraudulent, the faid George Wilfon
,,having knowingly and wilfully located his faid entry
" upoi. lands which had been a&ually before appropriated
-' and furvdyed for others, as appears by the words of the
4"faid Wilfon's own entry, which begins at the upper
" and north-eaft corner of the faid George Mafon's
" 8,4oo acre furvey, on the bank of Panther creek,, up",on which furvey of 8,400 acres, tle adjacent furvey
" made for George Mafon of 8,30o acres, made about the
"fame time, binds, and runs thence fouth xo eaft (be"ing the courfe to a fingle degree of the dividing line
"between the faid- Mafon's two trafts of 8,4oo and
"c8,30o acres) paflling the faid Mafon's fouth-eaft corner
"2,6oo poles north, .8o ° eaft (which *is the courfe to a.
'fingle degree of the back line of George-Mafon's faid
furvey of his tra& of 8,300 acres) 3,200 poles, and off
at right angles, northwardly to the bank of Panther
"creek ; -and down the fame, according to the meanders
thereof, to the beginning; whereby it includes the
"whole of Richard Mafon's faid tra&t of 8,3oo acres, 'as
'.' devifee as aforefaid of George Mafon, as well as fome
" other lands which have been previoufly located and fur"veyed for other people ; which above mentioned courfes
"could not have been inferted in Wilfon's entry, in the
" manner they are, without his having been acquainted
"'with the. faid fairveys made by George Mafowbefore
".mentioned ; the plats and certificates of 'which, were,
"at the time'of Wilfon's faid entry, in the:county fur-ve or's office , and from which it is evident Wilfort
,ganed the information by which he made his fpecial
"'entry." The original caveat of George Mafon v. Wilfon was entered May 6th, 178g.
Mafon's entries, in the book of entries, were afol-

tow, viz.
"

178o, April 29 th, George Mafon enters 8,400 acres

" of-'land, to begin on Panther creek, on the eaftfide

'

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

v.
MAsoN.

"thereof, oppofite to a beech on the weft fide, about
"four miles above the mouth of the we fork, and to
"run up and down the faid creek, and eaftwardly for
,, quantity."
4c 78o, April 29 th, George Mafon enters 8,3oo acres,
" to begin at the upper corner of his 8,4oo acre entry,
"and to run up the creek, on the eaft fide, and back for
quantity."
1780, Odober 27 th, GeorgeMafoh defires to make
his entry of 8,400 acres more fpecial on Panther creek,
" viz. to begin four miles above the for~s of Panther
creek, where it mouths into Green river, on the eaft
"fide, running up and back for quantity."

"

The tract of 8,4oo acres was furveyed on 27 th September, 1783, beginning four miles above the mouth of
Panther creek, where it empties into Green river, and
not four miles above the mouth of the weft fork of Panther creek, as mentioned in his firft entry.. The mouth,
of Panther creek being more than twelve miles below thp:
mouth of the weft fork.
The tra& of 8,3oo acres was furveyed on the 2d of
O&ober, 1783, adjoining to the furvey of 8,4oo acres,
6elow the mouth of the weft fork, and not above, as it.
would have been if furveyed according to the entry of the
29th April, 178o.
George Wilfon's entry is as follows, viz.
1784, April
1c

9 th,

George Wilfon enters 40,926

" acres-upon five treafury warrants, No. 17,639, 19,143,
" 19,614, 19,616, 12,795, on the fouth fide of Panther

1 creek, a branch of Green river, beginning at the upper
"cand north-eaft corner of George Mafon's 8,40o acre
"furvey on the bank of Panther creek, which furvey begins, perhaps, about three miles from the mouth of
"the faid creek and 320. poles upon a direct line 4bove
"-the mouth of the firft fork of the faid creek from the
" mouth, thence running fouth i o eaft, paffing the faid
" Mafon's fouth-eaft corner 2,6oo poles; thence north
q' 86" eaft 3,260 poles; thente off at right angles, north-

DECEMBER, x8or.
"wardly, io the bank of Panther creek, and down the
fame, with the feveral meanders thereof, to the, place

of beginning."

MASON.

Upon four of thfe warrants, 30,000 acres were f~rveyed for Wilfon on the 2d June, 1.784, and loeated fo
as to comprehend the whole of Mafon's furvey of 8,300
acres.
The following fads were agreed to by the counfe for
both parties, viz.
c x. We admit that Panther creek has -been known
and called by, that name, Panther creek, generally,
".fince the beginning of the year 178o, and is truly re"1 prefented on the plat returned in this caufe, and alfo
" the forks.thereof.
"

f"2. That at the diftance of twelve and one quarter
miles and thirty-fix poles, on ,adire& line from its
mouth, the faid creek divides itfelf into two forks, viz.
" the fork marked, on the plat returned in this caufe, as the
c.wet fork of faid creek; and the other, the fork marked
c on the plat, Panther creek ; and that from the fize and
" natural defcriptions of thefe forks, they woid be re" marked and called fuch by ftrangers who fhould explore
" the waters o'f that creek.
"
"

" 3. That the laid forks were generally known, and
c, called the forks of Panther creek, from the beginning
" of the year i 7,8o ; and that they were notorious as
" fuch, to all who had acquaintance with the waters in
" that part of this country.
" 4. That in the winter before the Laid entries were
made for Laid defendant, the faid agent, Hancock Lee,
"went down on Panther creek, and explored the country
"thereabouts ; and encamped thereabouts four or five
weeks for that purpofe ; and there were feveral others
"in 'company with him, who all went on the bufinefs of
9 viewing the land in that quarter.
"

" 5. That James Hord was the furveyor who furveyed
"the

WILSON

aid entries in September and Oaober, 1783.

G

,SUPREME COURT 11. S.
WILSON

-V
MAs(

T.

" 6. That Hubbard Taylor was the fpecial attorney of
" the defendant Mafon, for the purpofe of making his
" furveys on Panther creek, among which Was the one
" now in controverfy, and previous to making faid furveys,
,'the faid Taylo'r made out a plat of Panther creek, up to
" the forks thereof, by adual furvey, for the purpofe of
i fatisfying himfeif how the furvey of the faid defcndant
C ought to be made ; which plat he delivered to the faid
Iord, when he went td make the furveys of the faid
H
" lands, for his inflrniion ; and by the faid plat the faid
fLiord was inftruaed to make the furveys of the faid
The entries, al" defendant as they are now furveyed.
, luded to in the 4 th fact, are thofe found by the jury
t to have be made for the defendant, by Hancock Lee,
' at the fanme time with that of the land in controverfy."

The verdict of the jury was as follows, vz.
,"We of the jury do find the facls following for the
plaintiff, excluding thofe agreed to by the attornies,
4,i. That the faid Hancock Lee, at the time he made
"the faid entry, for the faid Mafon, did alfo make the
" feveral otner entries for him.
cc 2. That the p(ns and certificates of furvey lay three
c"weeks in the office btore they were recorded.
"c 3. That at the time of M~aking out and recording the
plats of faid furveys, William Mafon was agent to the
"9 faid George Mafon, and came to this country for the
" exprefs purpofe of attending to his land bufinefs ; and
had power and inflruffions to re-furvey.any of the faid
Mafon's entries, which he fhould find tohave been erroneoufly furveyed, or interfering with better claims.

cr

" 4. That it was a general practice in the offices of
when a furvey was found to have been made
,erroneoufly, to make the fame over again at the requeft
of the parties concerned ;, and the faid practice pre.vailed alfo in cafes of furveys recorded.
ccfurveyors,

That when William Mafon came to the furveyor's
T"
"
CC
office to take out the plats in this cafe, and alfo thofe ini

DECEMBER, i8os.

St

WILSOl
'V.
" the furveyor told him that the entries of the laid George,
" the defendant, had been furveyed wrong ; and took a MASoN.
- pen and paper and explained to him the calls of the en- 1--r-1140
- tries, and by comparing them with the furveys, fbewed
" him that they were erroneous; and offered to fend a
-deputy with him, without further or additional ex" pence, to make the furveys aright, with which propofal
o the Laid William feemed pleafed, and proceeded no fur- ther in the bufinefs at that time ; but went away and
" after fome days came back to the faid office, and told
" the furveyor, that the entries of faid Mafon were fo
", made that they would clafh with each other,.if furveycc ed otherwife than they then were ; and he did not fee
"that the furveys could be amended: whereupon, he
" took out the plats and certificates of furvey to return
,, them to the regifter's office, and a6tually did fo ; which
c tranfa&ion happened at the office of the furveyor, about
cc the 1ath of September, r784.

94 the other cafes in which George Mafon was concerned,

" 6. That the lands, generally, over all the ftate of
c Kentucky, except the land referved by law for entries,
' are involved in difputes, by different entries and fur"veys having been made for the fame tradfs.

" 7. That it was ufual for the furveyors to furvey enf-ctries agreeable to the direaions of the proprietors or
" their agents, when fuch direaions were given.
" 8. That a law, paffed b the affembly of Kentuck)
"c in 1792 prohibited any further entry of land with the
cc furveyors, and that ever fince that time no land could
" be appropriated by virtue of land warrants.
" 9. That the praaice of entering for land was a ge.
,, neral ftrife for the beft legal entry.
" 1o. That George Mafon's entry of 8,400 acres, made
" the 17 th day of O6&ober, 1780, is furveyed on Panther
" creek, and a large branch thereof; and not on either
"of the main forks of faid creek, as appears by the plat ;
"and that the furvey of 8,300 acres, being the land in
"controverfy, adjoining the laft mentioned furvey, above,
"con faid creek, and defcribed in the plat in this caufe by

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILsoN
'v.
MAson,.

"

the letters and figures A. E. F. 8, is claimed; by the

." defendant Mafon, as a furvey made by the faid Mafon,
" on-an entry cf his, dated the 2 9 th day of April, 1780,
for 8,300 acres of land; is on faid creek and a branch
" thereof, and not on either -of the main forks, as ap"

pears by the plat.

c ii. That the
by the letter A,
" the place called
-- corner of his
agreeable to the
"

place defignated, in the correCted plat,
on the fcuth fide of Panther creek, is
for, by die phintiff, as the beginning
entry of 40,926 acres, and defcribed
plat.

" 12. That it was a practice, in the office of William
".May, furv(,yor of Jefferfon, with whom the defendant
Mafoil's entries were made, and by whofe deputy furcc veyor, James Hord, the defendant's furveys were made,
" to alter furveys difcovered to be erroneous or wrong,
" after they werq recorded, and furvey them aright, withc out further or additional expence to the owners of .fuch
- entries, and to proceed on the plats of the amended

- furveys, as the proper plats of the legal furvey.
" T3. That the faid Hord, when on his way to make
faid furveys, called on faid furveyor of Jefferfon, for
- copies of the 'defendant's entries, and on feeing them
" was firuck with the variance between the calls of the
'entries and his infirudfions, in point of location, and
- on that account did not return the plats of the. faid fur" veys, until he had feen Hubbard Taylor, and fhewed
ccthem to him, and reprefented his opinion of fuch vari- ance ; but on their being ihewn to the faid Taylor, he
" direthed faid furveys to be returned as they were then
-cmade.
"

" 14. That the faid Hord was fully informed of the
"forks of Panther creek, when he was making faid deC fendant's'furveys,
and faw the fame, and about the
cc fame timeat which he.made the defendant's faid fur" veys, and before he returned from doing the fame."
(Signed)
" Daniel JWejger, foreman."

"

" We of the jury do find the following fa1s for the
defendant Mafon.

DECEMBER, i8oi.
" T. That the entry made in the name of George \Vilfon, April 9 th, 1784, of 40,926 acres, on the fouth
c fide of Panther creek, claiming under which, the faid
" Wilfon entered this caveat, alti ough made in his name,
" was made for the benefit of- Chriftopher Greenup, and
" John Handley, as well as for his benefit, and that the faid
" Greenup and Handley were, at the time of making the
cc entry, and long fince, partners with him in the fame.
"

"

"
"
"

"
"

" 2. That John Handley, then a deputy furveyor of
the county, made the faid entry of 40,926 acres, for
himfelf and the other partners ; and before he made
the fame, had obtained information of the furveys
made for George Mafon, on his entries of 8,300, and
8,400 acres, on the fouth fide of Panther creek, from
the furveys then in the office of the furveyor.

" 3. That the faid George Wilfon, Chriftopher Green" up, and John Handley, had before, and at the time the
" faid entry of 40,926 acres, was made, notice of the
i place where, and the manner in which, the furveys
"had been made for George Mafon, on his entries of
"
"

8,300 adres, and 8,400 acres, on the fouth fide of Panther creek.

" 4. That John Handley, before the faid entry of 40,
acres was made, had notice that the land; now in
,cdifpute in this'caveat, had been included in Mafon's
- furvey, on his entry of 8,300 acres.
c 9,26

" S. That the furveys, made for the faid Mafon, on
" iisentries of 8,400, and 8,300 acres, on the fouth fide,
"of Panther creek, were returned to the office of the
" furveyor of thecounty, in the courfe of the fall, 1783.

(Signed)

"

Daniel Weiger, foreman."

The judgment of the diftri& court of the United States,
for the diftri k of Kentucky, at June term Boo, in the
caveat of vilfon v. Maon, was, " That the defendant
" hath the better right to the land in controverfy ; It is
" therefore ordered that the caveat be difmiffed, and that
" the defendant recover againft the plaintiff his colts in
c this behalf expended."

WILSoN

Iv.
MASOV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

Iv.

MASON.

In the caveat of Marn v. Win, the judgment was,
",That the plaintiff recover againft the defendant fo much
" of the land in controverfy as is included within the furvey of 8,3oo acres, made by George Mafon, on his entry of 8,3oo acres, entered March (Q . April) the 29 th
C 178o, and defignated in the correred plat returned in
- the faid other caveat, by the letters D. E. F. 8, and
" afo his cofts by him about his fuit in this behalf ex" pended."
After thefe judgments were entered, Wilfon, by his
counfel, moved the court for a citation on a writ of error to the fupreme court of the United States, to which
IfIafon, by his counfel, objeCted, alledging that by the
ads of affembly of Virginia, under which the plaintiff
Wilfon claims, it is provided that no appeal or writ of
error fhall be allowed on a judgment entered on a caveat,
and that, therefore, in this cafe the plaintiff was precluded from claiming the benefit of a writ of eeror. But
the court over-Tuled this objedion and granted the citation, to which ojdivion the defendant excepted.*
The following is the opinion of judge lnnes, who tried the caufe in
the diftri6l court ; and which isalluded to in the fubfequeue arguments of
counfel. After Riating the faas of the cafe he proceeds " The novelty
" of this cafe, the number of faffs fubmitted and found by the jury, as
wH as the ingenious manner in which it was argued by the cownfel
" of both plaintiff and defendant, have attraded my particular attention,
and induced me to weigh the fubjedt deiberately; the refult of my deo liberations will apptar from the following opinion:
" The firfl queftion which prefents itfelf in this caufer is, whether Ma" fon has furveyed 8,3oo acres of land contrary to his
entry made the
"gth of April§ 178o.
" The alteration of Mafon on the zth day of Odober, x78o, to the
" entry of 8,400 acres, dated the 29th day of April preceding, is confi"iered as a withdrawing of, and a total abandonment of the firfl entry.
The /firfl
entry calling to lie about four miles above the mouth of the
U weft fork, thefiecond four miles from the mouth of the main creek.
1The furvey, therefore, of the 8,300 acres is made contrary to the
entry, as it adjoins the trad of 8,400, which is made in conformity to
the new entry.
" This dedfion, that the land in queftion is furveyed contrary to en"try, brings me to the principal quellion in this caufe; will Mafon's
furvey forl8,3oo acres of land, made contrary, to his entry, fecure the
,"land to him againft the claim of Wilfon, founded on a fpecial. entry-,
"fabfequent to the recording of Mafon's furvey, Wilfon having, before
" he made his entry, notice of the place where, and manner in which,
Mafon had'furveyed, and of the furvey being recorded ?
1' The parties to this fuit are both confidered as purchafers, of tht
coinmonweahh; Cihancery rrvimoa Sfthe laws, I. 95, 96, §"3. the fur" eyap

DE ,EMBER) tot.
This caufe was argued at laft term by Davei(/ and C.
Lee for the plaintiff in error, and Jones and Mafon for
for defendant.
"vwyoF of the county, a" her ntinifterial agent; who is authorized to
receive warrants for land,,make entries, furvey the fame, receive the'
" furveys when made, record the plat and certficate within three months
" after it is returned to his office, provided, upon examinatioa, he finds
it truly made and legally proportioned as to length and breidth.
"I will here take notice of two arguments, urged by the plaintiff's
"counfel, viz -that the word " truly," ufed in the law, when fpeaking
of the duties of the furveyor, referred to a power over the entry; that.
"it was his duty to fee that the entry and furvey agreed.
" This would be a dangerous confitria5ion of the law, as it would authorize the furveyor to determine the rights of claimants, and to judge
"in his own caufe where a furvey fliould be made that interfered with a
clainm of his. I conceive him minifierial, except in two cafes; he is to
examine the plat that it is truly made; i.e. to fee that the courfes of the
t furvey ate truly laid down, and that it contains its complement o! acres.
" It is to this part of his duty that the word truly refers. Again, he is
to examine the ieo. proportion of the plat. In thefe two cafes he aas
"judicionlly; and Atis right he fhould be vef'ed with fuch a power; beeanfe, as he acts generally by deputy, it enables him to corred the work
of his deputy, and alfo to prevent improper combinations between the
employer and deputy.
" The fecond argument alluded to is this; that neither the entry-book,
or book for entering furveys, are record-Looks; and that legiflative in" terference was necefary toconflitue them fuch, ch re . 96, 2%o. They
are hooks direded to. be procured by law. The furveyor is a fworn
officer, commiffioned agreeably to law. Copies of entries and cQpies
of furveys, atteftcd by him, are good evidence in a court of juftice.. I
"therefore confider every entry, and every furvey, entered in theft books
as being of record, and equally valid with thofe which are ufunlly fiiled
U records.
" Mafon, a purchafer of the commonwealth, having furveyed contrary
" to his entry, returns the furvey t6 the furveyor's office, where it is ex" amined and recorded before the claim of ai-y other perfon appears to
" the land. Can the commonwealth deftroy Mafon', furvey an~d refue
" her grant to the land?
" The law has pointed out no mode by which the commonwealth can
" fet afide Mafon's furvey for her own benefit; neither was fuch a provi"finn neceffary; becaufe he had paid the purchafe-money, for fo many
acres of unappropriated land It was vaesnt; and fo Loon as his furvey was recorded, his warrant was carried intofudl eeuuion, and the
" entry of 8,3oo acres became vacant, and reverted to the commonwealth,
"there being no warrant in the furveyor's office to cover it, the warrant
4 being returned to the owner with the plat and certificate of furvey. Or,
", being recorded is the fame thing in effectS, as it can never be again adied
"upon, being executed by asfal frrvey. Ch. rev §. 3. p. 9s, 96. Any
"pra&ice to the contrary I deem illegal and contrary to law.
" From this flatement of faks I determine Mafon's right to be good
"againft the commonwealth.
" As the commonwealth can take no advantage of Mafoin's furveying
* contrary to entry, fhall Wilfon, by his fubfcquent fpecial entry, when
"he had full and perfcd knowledge of the plae where MaCon's furvey,
was made, and of its being recorded.
" There
"

WILSON
'V.

MAsoN.

56
WILSON

Mashy.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Daveifs for plaintfi in err'or.

As the counfel for the defendant in error have objeded
confine
to our right of appeal in this caufe, I fhall at firft
myfelf to that point ; becaufe, if the court fhould agree
" There are oniv two ways of defroyirig a man's right to a traft of
By caveat after furvey and before the title is complete ; or, by a
4 land
1 fuit in chancery after the grant has ;ffued.
" In the pr.'fent cafe Wilfon has clioi, i to enter a caveat to prevent the
Sema.'nation cf a grant to Malio ; alledging that Mafon has furveyed
contrary to entry, and that it i6vague, for which reafen. he claims the.
"land by virtue of a fpecial entry
There are four caujes flated in the land-law which authorize'the enT
I. Failing to regifter the plat and certificate of
" tering of a caveat.
' furvey within twelve months after making the furvey: 2 If the
" breadth of the plat be not one-third of its length: 3 If any perfon
of land to which another hath by law a bettr right,
" fliall obtain a filrvey
the perfun having fuch better right may in like manner enter a caveat,&c 4. If the plaintiff in a caveat recover judgment and fails to deliver
" the fame, &c into the land-office within fix months after judgment, it
n Ihall be lawful for any perfon to enter a caveat, &c. The two firlI
" and fourth caufes are penalties which any perfon may take advantage of,
and do not apply to the prefent cafe The third requ'res an'exifting right
" in the caveator at or before the time the furvey caveated is recorded.
" From an attentive confideration of this paffage in the law, it conveys to
" me this idea : " Shall obtain afurvey of landi," nians fubfequent to the
paffing of the law, and after the furvey is recorded; and not from the
maling, becaufe the furvey is not comlete until it is recorded ; neither
" could he " obtain" it till the furveyor ha's performed that part of his
duty, after which it is to be delivered to the proprietor with the warrant.
Previous to the recording I confider the furvey to be under the direction
of the owner, and that he may make any alteration he pleafes in it, but
not after; although a different pradice has prevailed, and which upon
enquiry will'be found to be contrary to law.
",It is important to this caufe to confider another paifage in the tihme
fentence of the law ; " to which another bath by law a better right."
" The word bath is in the prefent tenfe, and refers to the time of obtainIf any conflrudlion relative to the word obtain, be
" ing the furvey.
" right, the claim of the caveator mull exift before or at the time of re" cording the furvey. l am confirmed in the propriety of this intcrpreta1"tion of the law, for the following reafons: If a deputy. furveyor makes
" a furvey, the principal ought not to fign it till it is recorded; then the
. fignature makes it ready to be delivered. If made by the principal, he
11will not deliver it before it is recorded. The furvey cannot be confidered as complete till all the requifites of the law be performed ; the
party is then entitled to it. Neither will the regiller of the land-office
Without thefe requifites it is of no
ii receive it without that formality.
" more value than wafte paper; it cannot therefore be faid to be " obtan" ed," without their being performed.
" The two firfi and fourth caufes whichjuflify the entering a caveat,
" I have already faid, do not apply to the prefent cafe.
" It remains to be confidered whether Wilfon has purfued the flatute fo
"a, to bring his cafe within the third caufe: Haa he " a bettcr rglt" to
. the

DECEMBER, i 8ox.
with them in opinion on that queftion, much time will
be faved and much ufelefs difcuffion prevented.. It is
contended that by the laws of Virginia, upon which the
title to the land in difpute depends, and which give the re" the land furveyed for Mafon, and for which he has inflitnted this fuit,

" than Mafon had, at the time the furvey was recorded?
" A caveat is a new and luminary mode of proceeding, in derogation
6 of the proceedings at common law, infituted by flatute; it is necef49fary, therefore, to purfue the flatute firi&ly, and fhew to the court
1 that the caveator hIAsa clear right to purfue that,mode of proceeding.
"r
D. and F 141."
"

Wilfon's entry was made on the 9 th day of April, 1784.

To the

date of his entry I fix the commencement of his claim to the land in concertain-and evident adl of ownerihip maniftft" troverfy, it being the firit
"ed by him; which is upwards of four months after Mafon's furvey
'1 had been recorded."
" As Wilfon's right did not exift at the time Mafon's furvey was re" corded, he has failed to prove the better right required by law ; neither
" has he pqrfued the ftatute by affigning proper caufes for caveating. Sur" veying contrary to entry, or making a vague entry, are not ftated in
" the law as exceptions to a furvey, or caufes for entering a caveat.
• True it is, that there are inflances in which furveying" contrary to
But this is where there
" entry would be a good caufe of caveating
is an exifting right before the furvey is made or obtained ; and the
queftion would then ret on having the letter right to the land.
"1 The favourable lighi
in which furveys have been viewed by the legif" lature is apparent in all thc laws which have been enact! refpe5tmg
" the titles to land " They are all to be confidered as one" laW; forming
one general fyftem on the fame fubjed.*
" The furvcys here alluded to were injurious to the intereft of the
confirmed.
commonwealth, but being made by the proper officer, werei
" In this cafe the eommonwealth is not injured, ind Wilfon, through
4'

his partner. Handly, had every information neccifary to guard him
againft an interference with Mafon's furvey
" Confidering the parties both as purchafers of the commonkealth, de" riving their claims from the fame fource ; Mafon as the firft, and Wil" fon as the lfecond, the Iollowing .princililes will apply in this cafe re" fpediog notice. Lord Hardwicke laid, in the cafe of Le Neve '. Le
"
"

" that the taking of a legal efiate after
notice of a pbrior right,
makes a perfon mala fide puichafer, and is a

" Neve, .4mb 446. 3 AMA. 654

"fpccies cf fraud." If a perfon dbes not flop his hand, hut gets the legal
knew the right in equity :was in another, he will be
" eftate when he
" rebutted by this maxl~'" fraus ctdolus nemini patrocinari debent."
" In the cafe .of Abney

'

ca.
Kendall, I eq. ca. ab 330. Pl I. I chart

38.-t it was determined that if A having notice that lands were contraded to be fold to D purchafes thofe lands, and takes a conveyance" it ihall deftroy the purchafe and tlke land Ihall be reconveyed to B.
" Mafon being confidered the firfpurchafer of the commonwealth
" having pbtained his furvey, through the means of her agent, (though
0 contrary to entry, yet of which fhe can take no advantage, and which
" worked
*
.PeMany
a paJ'd
re the Pirginia egyatort gi ingfurter time'tordurn
Afelats, &c.."

t' I Cham. Ca. 3

on, aedXenkal
Mirry v. Ahnay thefather, 46o''the
e

H

WILSOI!
Iv.
MASoN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WiLSON

IV.
MASoN,.

v

medy by caveat, no appeal or writ of error will lie. The
hand law of Virginia, as it is called, viz. the a& of May
i779, (Chancery revi/ion fIhe kiwsofYirgiia, p. 94")
entitled- An a& for eftablifliing a land office, and afcertaining the terms and manner of granting wafle and
unappropriated lands," which dire&s the manner of
proceeding upon caveats, enadts that "the court" (that
is the general court) " fhall proceed. to determine the
right of the caufe in a fummary way, without pleadings in
writing; empannelling and fwearing a jury for the finding of fuch fades as are material to the caufe, and are
not agreed by the parties ; and thall thereupon give judgment, on which no appeal or writ oferror Jheill be allowed."
This law, it is faid; was in force at the time of the fe-paration of Kentucky from Virginia ; and that by the aCt
of. affemblyof Virginia of December 178 9 , rev. tode p.
56. fed. 7" which prefcribes the terms upon which
Kentucky might become an independent flate after the
ift. Qf November 1791, it is provided that all private
rights and interefts of lands within the faid diftrit, derived from the laws of Virginia prior to fuch feparation,
fhall remain valid and fecure, under the laws of the propofed flate, ",andfiallbe determined by the laws NOW exfling in this STATE."
worked no iniquity to any perfon, the land being vacant) by recording
the furvey, the entry aove the forks of the creek was abandoned.
Wilfon having notice, before le made his entry, that A1afjn had appro.
'priated the, land by the recording of the lurvey, cannot fluppori his
' claim under the ftatute; judgnient, therefore, mull be entered for the
defendant.
" The preceding pages contain my opinion delivered in the caveat,
George Wilfon againfl Richard Mafon, devifee, &c. at the June term,
" i8oo; of the diftridi court of the United States for the 1cntucky
t diftrid.
As
A the principles on which the decifion was founded will be brought
" before the fupreme court of the United States, where I cat) have no
opporttmity of affigning my reafons in fipport of the judgment, with
due deference I folicit the court to permit the opinion to be read ; by
40which the principles which governed me in the decifion will appear
fully
before that court which is to reverfe or affirm the judgment I have
given between the parties.
I This requeft is grounded upon this fingle confideration, that what I
" have been offially obliged to do, may be examined before a final en" quiry is had refpeing my judicial ats."
"

(Signed)

'cma , x1W', 8ot."

"HARRY INNES.'

DECEMBER, i8ox.
But we fhall contend,

WILSON
IV.

ift. That the jurifdilion and powers of this court do
not depend upon the laws of Virginia, but upon the conflitution of the United States, and the ads of congrefs.
2dly. That the laws'of particular ftates lofe their
force when they contravene the ads of congrefs.
3dly. That by the law of Virginia a right of appeal
is allowed upon a caveat.
ift. By the conflitution of the United States, art. 3.
2." the judicial power fhall extend" "to controvert ies between citizens of different flates," and in all cafes,
except where a public minifter, or a flate, ihall be a party, "the fupreme courtfhallhave appellatejurifdiion,both
"t as to law and fad, with fuch exceptions, and under fuch
it regulations as the congrefs fhall make." Congrefs have
not excepted the prefent cafe ; it therefore follows, that
by the conftution of the United States, this court has appellate jurifdiion of the caufe.

fe.

6.
"f
"

2dly. By the conflitution of the United States, art.
" This confiitution, and the laws of the United
States,' which (hall be made in purfuance thereof, fhall
be the fupreme law of the land ; arid the judges, i

" every fiate, fhall be bound thereby, ' any thing in the con"*flit ution or la'rs of anyflate to the contrary notwit.flianding."

By the ioth felion of the judiciary a& of 1789, the
diftrid court of Kentucky has jurifdidion of all cafes by
that ad made originally cognizable by the circuit courts,
and it is ena&ed that "writs of error and appeals, Jha/ lie,
from decifions therein, to the fupreme court in the fame
ct caufes, as from a circuit court to the fupreme court and
ct under the fame regulations." This caufe having been
removed, by the defendant Mafon, from the ftate.court,
into thediftri.t court of the United States for the diftrid
of Kentucky, under the 12th feffion of the judiciary ad
of 1789, is to "proceed in the farmie manner as if it had
" been brought there by original procefs." And by the
22d fecfion, c final judgments and decrees in civil ac" tions in a circuit court, brought there by original pro" cefs, or removed therefrom cou.rtf of the feveralflate,,"

M soM.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WIsoN

MAIOl.
AsoN.

-,vhere the matter in difpute exceeds 2ooo dollars, may
fupreme
re-examined and reverfed or affirmed in the
be
court.
A caufe may be removed into a circuit court from a
fupreme court of a flate, from which, by the laws of the
flate, no appeal or writ of error would lie ; and if the
principle contended for by the oppofitc counfel is corret,
it would equally prevent this court from taking cognizance of a writ of error in that cafe, as in this.
Befides, the queftion, whether a writ of error or appeal
will, of will not,, lie upon a caveat, does not affed the
title to the land ; and the a& of affembly of Virginia of
December, 1789, was only intended to proted: the rights
to land in Kentucky acquired under the laws of Virginia.
It fays, 'C the rights and intere9s of lands fhall he deter" mined by the laws now exifting," and does not fay
that Kentucky may not give a further remedy.
3 dly. A right of appeal upon a caveat did exift in Virginia at the time of paring the adl of affembly of December, 1789, ch. S3. refpeding Kentucky. By the ad
of the Virginia affembly, Otober 1788, ch. 67, fed.
i I and 12. the cognizance of caveats was given to the
diftridt c6urts, and by the j6th fedion of the fame aa
an appeal is allowed as of right in all cafes. The a& of
December 12, 1792, feCt. 6 and 9. rev. code, p. 8o, 81.
re-enaiCts thofe claufes of the aA of i788.

Mafonfor defendant in error.
It is not denied that the ads of congrefs are in many
cafes paramount to the laws of the individual ftates;
but even a general pofition of that kind will not decide
the prefent queftion. This a~tion was brought in a flate
court, under a ftate lAw, before congrefs legiflated upon
the fubjed, and even before congrefs, or the conftitution
of the United States, had an exiftence. Can fuch an action be effcded by fubfequent ads of congrefs ?

The law by which Kentucky was ereted into a feparate flate pAifd the Virginia legiflature in December,
1789. This is an uvaltcrable law, embracing the citizens

DECEMBER, igol.
of both ftates. It is a compad by which they mutually WILSOt
.
agreed that the rules of property fhould not be altered.
If we admit that by the a& of 1792, appeals were allow- .MAOl;.
ed in the cafe of caveats, the admiffion proves nothing 4-e
in the prefent queftion, becaufe the law of 1789 is an
unalterable law, and confined to the then exifting flate
of things. It was not in the power of one of the contrading parties to change the terms of the compad.
But it is faid that there was a right of appeal at the
time f that compad. . Let us examine the laws relative
'to this fulje&. The firft
ad is that of 1779, mentioned
by the oppofite counfel, which declares that caveats fhall
be tried in the general court, and that there hall be'no
appeal or writ of error The next is the a&'of 1788,
which transfers the jurifdidion of the general court to
diftri6 courts, and declares that c they lhall hays the
"fame jurifdidion concerning" "caveats" " as the gene-.
" ral court heretofore had by law."
But the jurifdi&ion
which the general court heretofore had by law was an exclufive andfinal jurifdidion, fiom which there could be
no appeal. If then the diftri& courts were to poffefs the
fame jurifdidion, it muft be an exclufve and afinaljurifdidign. But it is faid that by the fame a& of 1788, an
appeal in all cafes from the diftrid court was a matter of
right. This muft evidently mean in all cafes where a
right of appeal before exifted from the general court to
the court of appeals; but cannot be underftood to give
'an appeal in a cafe where it had been exprejsly excluded
by an exifting law. The intention of the legiflature was
to put the diftri& court, as to all cafes arifing within the
diftri&, exadly in the place of the general court, and to
give them the fame jurifdidion, to be exercifed in the
fame manner, with the fame limitations, and liable to
appeals only in the fame cafes. But the a& of 1788,
ereaing diftrid courts on the eaJlern waters, did not affed Kentucky. The legiflature had before, by an ad
paffed in 1782, ereded a court on the weflern waters,
called the fupreme court for the diftrid of Kentucky, to
which it had transferred all the powers and jurifdidion
theretofore exercifed by the general court of Virginia;
and with the reft, the power to try caveats and to give
judgment thereon, without any appeal or writ of error to
their judgment. The ad of 1788 did not take away the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WixsoN
q,.
MA. 0o.

.

.-

'

exclufive cognizance which the fupreme court of the diftri& of Kentucky had refpe&ing caveats, but they retained it till the final feparation of Kentucky from Virginia; after which the legiflatur of Kentucky pafred no
law authorizing an appeal; fo that under the Rate laws,
it is clear that no appeal or writ of error would ,lie.
.Thcre being then no appeal under the fRate laws, the

queftion will be fimply whether a writ of error will lie
to the diflri&t court of the United States for the Kentucky diftrid, upon an adion carried there from the Rate
court, which, under the laws of the Rate, had a final and
exclufive jurifdi&ibn of the caufe.
The 22d fedion of the judiciary a& of 1789 (Laws of
U. S. vol. i, p. 61.) which allows appeals and writs of
error generally, did not contemplate a cafe like the prefent. This court is bound to take notice of the laws of
the feveral Rates. By the 3 4 th fe~ion of the fame judiciary aa, p. 74, the laws of the feveral Riates'are to be
the rules of decifion in cafes where they apply. The re.
reedy by caveat is given by the Rate law, and the party
who choofes to take that remedy muft take it with its
condition annexed, that no appeal or writ of error fhall
be allowed. A purchafer under the commonwealth of
Virginia acquires his right under this condition. It is a
part of the contra& from which this court cannot abfolve him. The parties to this fuit are not the only parties interefted in this queftion ; for while the right is
hung in dubio, whilif it is uncertain to whom the grant
ought to iffue, the Rate taxes cannot be colle&ed, the
commonwealth having -no tenant to whom to refort.
Wilfon has fought the fummary procefs by caveat, and
ought to be bound by the reftriaions of that law under
which he claims his remedy. He was not compelled to
ufe the fummary remedy, he might have reforted to chancery, and then the commonwealth would have had a tenant to pay the taxes. He ought not to have the benefits of this kind of procefs without fubmitting to the inconveniences which may be fuppofed to attend it. If this
opinion is corre&, although the laws of the United
States proiide generally that writs of error may be had,
they can only give them as a remedy where a right exifts;
and if Wilfon's right is gone by the judgment of the
court below, he is precluded from fuing it out, by the
ftatute under which he claims.

DECEMBER, i8oY.
Lee, in reply.

This caveat is brought from the diftri&'court of the
United States, and not from a ftate court. It is true that
it originated in the Rate court, but it was the defendant
Mafon, and not Wilfon the paintiff, who brought it into
the courtof the United States; and if the judgment of
that court becomes thereby liable to be reverfed upon a
writ of error, it is a confequence attributable ;to the at
of Mafon alone.
There is nothing peculiar in the nature of the proceeding by caveat, to exclude it from the general appellate
jurifdilion which is givei to this court by the conflitution and laws of the United States. It is not true that
this court are to look into the laws of Virginia for their
right to corre& the errors of the inferior courts of the
United States. When A caufe is brought from a flate
court into a court of the United States, it is to be proceeded upon as if it had originated in the latter court, and
the a& of congrefs has exprefsly 'provided for an appeal or
writ of error in the very cafe of an a&ion removed from
a Rfate court into an inferior court of the United States.
Unlefs this cafe can be fhewn to be within fome exprefs
exception to the general rule, none ought to be prefumed
by implication. With regard to the compa& between
Virginia and the inhabitants of Kentucky, it is true that
in all matters of fubfance, where the right of property
,depends upon it, it is binding upon this court; but in
matters of form only, it could never receive the ftri&
conftruCtion contended for, even between the parties
themfelves. The reafoning of the oppofite counTel would
go to prove that every caveat, depending upon the laws
of Virginia, muRl be tried in 'the courts of Virginia only, becaufe they had the fole right of trying a caveat, at
the time of the compa&. It would prevent the Rates of
Virginia and Kentucky forever from modifying and regulating their fyftem of courts, and neither ifate could ever
afterwards authorize an appeal upon a caveat.
But an appellate jurifdiffion on caveats did exift in Virginia at the time of the compa&. It appears by the aE
of congrefs, vol. i. p. 278, that Kentucky did not become an independent Rate till June, 1792. The county

WILSON
'V.

MASON.
y'

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

Iv.
MASON.

courts of Virginia had before that time cognizance of
caveats as to iands within their refpeclive counties. Laws
of Virgii 'a, rev. crde, p. 92, §. II, and in p. 88, §.53,
an appeal is given from the county courts to the diftri&
courts in all cafes of a certain value, or where the title
of land isdrawn in queftion ; and in p. 69, . 54, an appeal or writ of error is allowed from the diftrid courts
to the court of appeals, in the fame manner as from the
county to the diitria courts.
As to taxes, the Rtate may tax the land before any patent has iffued, if they think proper. It is not neceffary
that there fhould be a tenant.
The court direaed the counfel to *proceed in the further argument of the caufe, obferving that they would
confider this point with the others..
Lee for'the plainiifv in error.
The queftion is who has the better right to the grant
for 8,300 acres of land, furveyed for George Mafon, on
the ad of Oaober, 1783.
ii . The decifion of this controverfy depends on the
laws of Virginia preferibing the terms and manner of acquiring title'to wafte and unappropriated lands' with
which there muft be a legal and exad compliance.(A) Ac(A.) The following is the fubifance of thofe parts of an ai
of aflembly, which are material to this caufe, contained in
the chancery' revifion of the laws of Virginia, publifhed in
1785, by order'of the general affembly, p. 94., entitled.""An
"1 af for eftablifhiing a land-office, anid afeertaining the. terms
"e and manner of granting wafle and unappropriated lands,"
May feffion, 1779.
'the preamble recites, " Whereas there are large quantities
"of wafie and unappropriated lands within the territory of
thi&:commonwealth, .the granting of which will encourage
the migration of,foreigners hither, promote population, inckeafe
" the annual revenue, and create afund for difcharging the pub.
" lie debt, Be it enaaed," &c.
I.That an office be conftituted for the ,%urpofe of granting lands, and a regifter of thefaid land-offc,.be appointed, &c.
,. ".11 That any perfon may acquire title to fo much wafte
d and unappropriated lands as he or fhe ihall defire topurchafe,
. paying

DECEMBER, i8oi.
oording to thefe laws theremuft be a warrant, an entry and
afurvey; the warrant being the foundation of the entry,

and the entry direaing and controlling the furvey. If the
on paying the eontderation or .. 4o for every ioo acres,
" and fo in proportion," &c.
§. 3. Regifter to grant printed warrants under his hand and
feal of office, fpecifying the quantity of land, and the rights
upon which it is due, authorizing any furveyor duly qualified
according to law to lay off and furve) the fame, " which
(t warrants fhall be always good and valid until executed by
' a-Rualyur.vey :" nowarrant to be iffued other tlban pre-emption warrants, before isth Ofober, [779.' No furveyor to
a'dmit the entry or location of any warrant before it May,
1780. A furveyor to be appoimted in eA ry county.
i Every perfon having a land-warrant founded on any of
" the beftre mentioned rights, and being defirous of locating
, the fame on any particular wafte and unappropriated lands,
" fhall lodge fuch warrant with the chief furveyor of the
county wherein the faid lands or the greater part of them
lie, who fhall give a' receipt for the fame, if required.
1"

The party alldireet the location thereoffofpec;ally a dprec.ily,
T
it as that others m'ay be enabled ,:th certainty to lscate other ,warrants on the adjacent refiduum ;, 'which location t/all bear date on

the day on ,wh,,ch it /hall be made, and/hall be entered by thefurveyor in a book to be, ept for that pwuvf., in wh, ch there/hilbe
left
0 no blank leaves orfpaces between the dferent entries."
" The furveyor at the time of making the furvey fliall fee
, the fame bounded plainly by marked trees, except where
" a water courfe or ancient marked line (hali be the boundary,
" and (hall make the breadth of each furvey at leaft one' third of its length ineverypart, unlefs where fuch breadth
.fI fhall be reftraiced on both fides by mountains unfit for culC tivation, by water courfes, or the bounds of lands uefore
appropriated. He (hall, as foon as it c convenierntly be done,
and within three months at fartheft after making the furor vey, deliver to his employer, or his order, a fair and true
plat and certificate -)f fuch furvey, the quantity contained,
* the hundred (where hundreds are eftabliffhed in the county
wherein it lies) the courfes and deferiptions of the fevL.al
"boundaries,
natural and artificial, ancient and new, ex"prefling the proper names of fuch natural boundaries, where
they have any, and the name of every perfon whefe
" former line is made a boundary ; and alfo the nature of the
" warrant and rights on which fuch furvey is made. The faid
plats and certificates (hall be examined and tried by the faid
principal furveyor whether truly made and legally propor.
" tiotea

WILSON
IV.
MAsorJ.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILsOX
IV.
MASON.

entry be tiade without a warrant, or if the furvey be.
ma(tc of other land than that defcribed in the entry, in
either cafe there ij a defe.q of title.
tioned as to length and breadth, and fhall be entered
withi three months at fartheft after the furvey is made, in
a book, well bound, to be provided by the court of his
county, at he county charge."
1"Every perfon for whom any wafte or unappropriated lands
fihaUl be fo located and laid off, frall, within twelve months
at tartheft after the furvey made, return the plat and cer" tificate of' the Laid furvey into the land-office, together with
" the warrant on which the lands were furveyed, and may demand of the regifter a receipt for the fame, and on failing
" to make fsch return within twelve months as aforefaid,
or
" if the breadth of his plat be not one-third of its length, as
" befoxe dirctted, it hall be lawful for any other perfon to
"enter a caveat in the iaid land-office againft the iffuing of
i any grant to him, expreffing therein for what caufe the
"grant hould not iffue; or ifany peron .hall obtain a/friv of
" lands, to which another bath y la'w a better rg'ht, the per/on
"having fuch better right, may in "lIke manner enter a caveat to
prevtnt his obtaining a grant until the title can be determined ; fuch caveat alfo expreffing the nature of the right
4 on which the *plaintiff therein claims the faid land.
The
"peron enteringany caveatffhall take from the regifter a cer" tifled copy there f which, within three days thereafter,
-he fhall deliver to the clerk of the general c(urt, or fuich
" caveat fhall become void ; the faid clerk, on receiving the
" fame, fhall enter it in a book, and thereupon iflue a fammons,
" reciling the caufe for which fueh caveat is entered, a il.
re,quiring the defendant to appear on the feventh day of the
" fucceeding court, and defend his-right ;, and, on fuch procefs
being returned executed, the-court (hall proceed to determine
:'the tiht of the caufe in a flumnmary way, without pleadings
inwriting ; empanelling and fwearing a jury for the finding of fuch faCts as are material to the caufe, and are not agreed
by the parties ; and hall thereupon give judgment, onwah;ch
-' no aqtpeal or 'writ of errorf/hall be allonwed; a copy of fuch
judgment, if in* favour of the defendant, being delivered
into the land-office, fhall vacate the faidcaveat; and ifnot delivered within three months, a new caveat may for that caufe
he entered againit the grant ; and if the fAd judgment be
in favour of the plaintiff, upon delivering the fame into the
"land-office, togethej with a plat and certificate of the furvey, and alfo producin- a legal certificate of new rights on
"hi
own account, hie fl.all be entitled tp a grant tbereof;but on failing to make fuch return and produce Loch certifi"cates within fixt months after judgment fo rendered, it (hall
"

"9

be

DECEMBER, -i8Sl.
In this caveat one of the caufes affigned is, that the
furvey of Mafon was made contrary to his entry, and
this we conceive to be a fatal defea in his title.
2d. The entries made on the 29 th of April, 1780, by
G. Mafon (from whom the defendant derives. his title) of
his two warrants, No. 1, for 8,400 acres, and No. 2, for
8,3oip acres, were valid and fufficient entries of landon the
taft fide of Panther creek, and above the. mouth of the weft
fork thereof, at the time thofe entries were made. The
entry of warrant No. I is "on 8,400 acres of land to be" gin on Panther creek on the esft fide thereof, oppofite to
" a beech on tl. weft fide, about four mills above the
" mouth of the wefljork, ,and to tun up and down the faid
9c creek, and eaftwardly for quantity."
The entry of warrant No. 2, Is cc on 8,30o acres to lIegin at the upper corner of his 8,400 acre tntry," and
"run up the creek on the eaft fide, and ba,'- for quan"

"

tity."

Id.. If the expla. ahtion made on the 27th of O&ober,
1780, of the entry of warrant No. i, on the 49th of April
preceding, for 8,400 a res, was a.fubtraaion thereof
rom the land to which it had been applied, a matter not
clear of doubt, and therefore not admitted ; yet the entry
of warrant :No. 2, upon 8,300 acres was not ' thereby afl
: be lawful for any other perf'on to enter a caveat, for that
"caufe, againil iffuing the grant; upon which fubf'equent ca.
Yeats, fuch proceedings (hall be had as are before direted

" in the cafe of an original caveat ; and in any caveat where

judgment (hall be given for the defendant, the court (hall
"award him his cofs;" " and in cafe the plaintiff in any fuch

caveat (hail recov'er, the court may, if they think it reafanahie, award cofti again('c the defendant."
"Atadfor pre-tnting hajfy andJurrepttot grants, and avodZig
" controwvir'e: and expenfiwe la~w ftits, be It enadled, that no fur-

" veyor fhal! at any time ew;thb t.w'$ele months after the furvey
!. made, tu" or del:;ver any csrtqfcate, copy or plat of la-d, by ';.M
"j-rvyed, except only to t eZperjVon or pefw for 'whom rhefr,' 'was

"fur-vyed; or to his, her or their order ; unlefs a caveat (hall
" have been entered againil a giant to the perfon claiming tinder
fuch furvey, tobe proved by an authentic certificate of fuch
" caveat fromt the clerk of the general court, produced to the
"

furveyor."

WtS61%
ev-

MA

SON.

SUPREME COURT U. 9.
WILSON

ry,MAs CN.

feted, but remained unaltered, unimpaired and unfub.
tra~ted frc._. the land which it defcribes with fufficient le.
gal precifion a nd certainty. The re-location of one warrant is not neceffarily the re-location of another. If the
warrant No. I. was transferred by a new entry oA the
2 7 th of O&ober, 1780 ', to land fome miles belowthe weft
fork 6f Panther creek, yet the warrant No. . having
been legally located, on the 29th of April antecedent,
upon a tra('1 of land fome miles above the weft fork, remAned appropriated to that tra& of land.
4 th. The entry ot 8,3oo acres, under warrant No. 2,
being fuch a fpecial and precife entry as the law requires,
i an appropriation of the land defcribed in it; and fixes
that warrant upon that tra& of land, fituate upwards of
four miles above the weft fork of Panther creek : and the
furvey made by Mafon of 8,300 acres on thefouth fide of
Panther creek, and beow the weft fork thereof, and feveral miles below it, is not a furvey of the fame land
contained in his entry.

A furvey, of itfelf, without a previous legal entry of a
land warrant, is not a legal appropriation of wafle and
vacant land*;, and therefore this furvey, unfupported by
a legal warrant and-a legal entry, was no legal appropri.
atio, by Mafon, of the land in controverfy; but an unlawful intrufion thereupon ; and the fame land remained
open to the appropriation of others, who, having notice
of the illegnd furvey of Mafon, were not precluded by
law, or equity, from proceeding in due courfe of law
to obtain title to the fame land which is defcribed in that
illegal furvey which had been knowingly made by the
agents of Mafon contrary to his legal entry. No grant
of the land, therefore, ought to be made to the defendant
Mafon.
5 tb. If the claim of the defendant be deemed invalid,
then there is no impediment in the Wvay of the plaintiff
whiofe warrants, whofe entry, and whofe furvey are perfedly conformed to law.

The two caufes affigned by Mafon in his caveat agaiift
Wilfon are refolvable into one, viz. that having notice of
the furvey of Mafon, it was not equitable but fraudulent

DECEMBER, tBoy.
to acquire a title to the fame land which was contained
in that furvey. " But if the law be in favor of the plaintiff, equity is alfo : for notice of illegal proceedings in one
man to acquire property, is no equitable bar to another
who thali in all refpe&s proceed according to law.
On the part of the defendant Mafon, there was full
and complete knowledge of Green river, Panther creek,
and the weft fork ; and with this knowledge, a furvey
was made of a different tra&t than the one defcribed and
authorifed by the entry No. 2, for the purpofe of obtaining a grant, in evafion and fraud of the law.- Such illegal
proceeding ought not to be fuftaintcd in a court of juitice
againft another who fhall refpee and obey the law in all
particulars.
The entry of Mafon for 8,300 acres, on the 29 th
April, 178o, begiis at the upper corner of his entry for

8,4oo acres, as made on the fame day.

The entry for

8,400 acres, well and accurately defcribed a tra& of land

lying on the eafl fide of Panther creek, oppofite a beech
on the wcft fide, andjfour miles above the weft fork. This
entry being fufficiently certain, the entry for 8,300 acres.
muft be certain alfo, and defcribes a particular tracer of
land lying more than four miles above the weft fork.
The weft fork was known by that name to tne agent of
Mafon at the time he .made the entries on 29 th April,
having encamped thereabouts, four or five weeks in the
winter and fpring before he made the entries for Mafon.
It has always been known by that name fince the firft cxploring of that part of the country. He was informed,
while the furveys were ftill in his power, that they did
not conform to his entries, and fhewn the manner in
which they differed, and yet he obftinately perfifted in
having them recorded. The warrant No. 2, then was
well and fufficiently located on the land above the weft
fork, and a removal of the location of warrant No. i,

even if fuch removal could be made according to law,
could not be confidered as a removal alfo of the location
of No. 2, without an exprefs declaration to that. effec.
The location of warrant No. t, was changed, but the
location of No. 2, was ndt. Mafon has furveyed it as
if it was ; and hence refults tue fatal difference b'etween

WILSON
'.
MAsoN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WiLSow
',.
MASoN.

his entry and his furvey; by which his furvey is a mere
void ad, and can not be the foundation of a claim to i
patent.
But it may be faid perhaps, that Mafon's, fiarvey of
8,3oo acres, although not authorifed by a previous entry,
yet being made before Wilfon's entry, and Wilfon having
notice of it, was good againft Wilfon, as well as agahft
the commonwealth. This is denied. As to the commonwealth it was an intrufion; and as to Wilfon the
land was fill vacant, it not having been appropriated in
the manner authorifed by law. Before a grant for land
has q&ually iffued, .the only record of appropriations is
the furveyor's book of entries, of locations. The book
of fuiveys was not- intended by the legillature as the'book
to refort to for information as to appropriations ; it furnifhed no evidence of that kind. And as to notice, the
principle is well eftablifhed that notice of an illegal act,
is no equitable bar to him who 'proceeds according to law.
Cowper 28o, Chapman v. Emery, and Doe v. Routledge,
Cowp. 708, 71 1, 712, where lord Mansfield ftates the

reafon for the principle to be, " becaufe ifhe knew the
traxfaction, he knew it was void by law.". 5 Co. 6o, (b)
t
Cwoch's cafe. x Eq. ca. ab. 334. Tonkins ..Enni . 2.Eq.
ca. ab. 682., Powell and Pleydell.
Notic dould not make that ad valid which was void
at law. A furvey is not the a& of appropriation which
the law requires. The land not being appropriated according to law, was fuch wafte and unappropriated land
as the ad'of affembly fays any perfon may acquire a title
to, on complying with the terms, and by taking the fteps
prefcribed by the ad, and Wilfon or any other per'fon
might lawfully appropriate the land, by proceeding regularly according to law.
Mafon, then, not having taken the fteps required by
the ad of affembly had no title at law; and having illegally made his furvey, with a full knowledge of all the
cir -amftances, and after having been warned of ,'"error, has certainly no right in equity. Before he obtained
a grant, Wilfon, by purfuing the fteps of the law, 'acquired a better right, :nd was thereby intitledto bring his
caveat, and obtaiA a judgment in his favor.

DECEMBER, x8ot.
Daweis:, on the fame fide,.
Notice cannot alter the law, except where the law requires notice. Where a ftatute requires notice and prefcribes the mode, notice in another mode is not fufficient.
4 Term. Rep. 368. King v. Newcomb. Amb. 444, 445.
This is a cafe in which Wilfon and Mafon are both
contending de damno evitando. The jury have found that
by.a law paffed by the affembly of Kentucky, in 1792, all
further entries of land with the furveyors are prohibited,
and that ever fince no land could be appropriated by virtue of land warrants. Confequently the principle applies,
which is laid down by lord Kaim, in his princ,[Iex of equity,
.P. 26, 27, 162, 16,3, 199, " that it is a univerfal law of
." nature that it is lawful for one, certans de damno evitando,
to take advantage of another's error." A warrant is a
tranfitory chattel until it has been located according to
law. The entry is the appropriation of a particular tra6'
.of land, and the fixing of the warrant to that tra&. The
furvey is of no efFe&, unlefs it be a furvey of the traa
to appropriated. Infupport of thefe pofitions he cited
a manufcript report of land cafes decided in the courts'
. 35.
of Kentucky, p 2.and 3, Swearingen v.-Dougk,.rty v. Crow-6i, 62, .63, Ifaacs v. Willis-268,
Owen v. Wilfon-77, 78, 79. Kite v.Stevenfon-,82, 183.
fame-197, MilConfdla v. Brifcoe-i99, Swearingen v¢.
lr's heirs V. Fox-200, Smith v. Bradford-2o6, 207.

Fry v. Effery, 'and other cafes in pages 211, 212, 214,
222, 232, 236, 268, 302, 303, 337, 338, 343, 353, 354;
It will probably be contended by the defendant, that
the intention of the affembly in requiring an entry, was
to give notice to fubfequent purchafers ; and that notice
given or gained in any way is fufficient. But it has been
thewn that here was no appropriation by Mafon ; and
that the land until appropriated is wafte. The land law
(hews this becaufe nothing but a regular title is prote&ed
by that law. In a ftatute introducing a new law, or
prefcribing the mode of acquiring new rights; affirmative
words imply a negative of all other modes of acquiring
that right, or fulfilling the terms of that law. The land
law by giving one way of acquiring titles, negatives all
-other modes. In 4 Bac. 4b. 641, it is laid, " If an af-

WILSON
MASON.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

111.
MASON.

,. firmative ftatute, which is introdu&ive of any new law,
c limits a hIing to be done in one manner, it fhall not,
c even wncre there arc no negative words, be done in
c any other," and the following cafes' are there cit.d.Stradling v. Morgan, Plowd. 206, (b)-Slade v. D, ke.
Hobart, 298. Weiken v. Bal/win. Sid. 56. He cited
329, and 3 P. Vill.
9Strane,
a16b, fh,7j'nb ; v. ieetwd.
458, 459, 46o, z61. The King v. Burrage. Where a
certaini mode is pointed out by a ftatute, in which a title
may be obtained, a conformity to that mode is a condition
precedei;t, without complying with which, no title can
be obtained. In the prefent cafe a warrant, an entry, and
a furvey are conditions precedent, and a want of either
is fatal.
Lee.
Jn the ioth fa&, found by the jury, for the plaintiff,
it is ftated, the furvey of 8 ,40o acres was made on the
entry of 17 th O&ober, and that the furvey of 8,300 acres
was made on the entry of 2 9 th of April. This muft
prevent the defendant from arguing that the latter furvey
was made on the entry of Odober, as well as from pretending that the entry of Ocober applies to the entry of
8,3oo acres made in April.
In order to prove that all lands, not entered for in a,
regular manner, were to be confidered as wajie and unappropriated, he .ited the cafe of Yones v. Williams, i Wafh.
23 1, in which the court call lands wafte and unappropriated, although they had been fettled and occupied for

years.
Mafon, for defendant in error.
it. The entry of Malon, upon which his furvey of
8,3"oo acres was made, is fufficiently certain, and the
furvey is in conformity to the entry.
2d. Admitting that the entry w s vague, and not correfponding with the furvey, yet Mafon having paid for
the land, and furveyed it, quoad the commonwe~Jth, he
was a bona fide purchafer, for a valuable confideration,

and entitled to the land, provided no ftep had been taken

DECEMBER,t rgor;
by any other Oerfon to acquire title to this lirn,previous
to Mafon's furvey.
3 d. Mafon having appropriated this land by a furvey
a&ually made, returned to the furveyor's office, and recorded, the land ceafed to be woifte and unappropriated
land: And Wilfon, having a perfcd knowledge of thefe
fads before and at the time he made his entry, w'as and
is, (if he could acquire title at all) in the charader of a
fecond purchafer with notice of a prior fale of the iame
land,'and therefore was a fraudulenipurchafer.
4 th. ' lie piaintiff in error is not, under the provilions
of the law, entitled to a caveat in,this cafe, becaufe the
better right.: which the law meant to prote&, was a right
exifling before or at' the time the furvey to be caveated

was made.'
ift The entry of 8, 3 oo acres is fufficiently'.certain, by
its reference to the entryof 8,400 acres. The furveys
of 'both:entries are :upon the identical; trads originally intended to be-located. The firft deliCription of them in
'April) 178o, was inaccurate on account of the mifltake
in the names of places. [he particular forks and branches
had at that time fcarcely acquired an, names at all. The
fads ftated-in this cafe do not admit that the names of
the places were; known before the beginning of the year

1780, which is the very time when the entries Were made.
It does notappear that the place now calld the mouth of
weft fork was known by that name before Mafon made
his entries. It.may be a name fince acquired, or given
-by the furveyor or his deuties, who are the perfons that
generally give namdg to places in new countries. So foon
as the fallof the fame year Mafon found that the defcrip.
not fuIficientl'y accurate; an'd znade an explanation
tory was
entry declaring what pla~e he'meant by the motth
the weft f 'rk,and itating it to be the forks o/ Panther

0f

creek where it muths into Gteen river. A miftake of th?
kind was by no mears improbable, in the then wiid a A
uninhabited QIate of 'the country' on and about Gr,;n

river, when. it was dangerous on account of the Indi us'
*to attempt to fet a compafs. That fuch miftakes mIeregeneral is evident from' the names of places which %ere
given. Thus the vw fork, is in fat a north-eaft ftrk

K

WxLojA
"
M
MAsoV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WI.soN
'V.

MASON.
'

what is called the eaft fide of Panther creek, is truly the
fouth-weft fide. The entry of April, was in fubftance,
the location of the tra& furveyed; and the memorandum
of Mafon in O&ober, was only fixing with more accuracy what was before in fome degree vague. If this was
the fact, then the entry of O&ober was not a re-location
of the warrant; it was never removed, but was always
fixed to one and the fame fpot of earth. If then the
entry of October is nothing more than it purports to be,
viz. an explanation of the name of a place which was
before uncertain, this fame a61 of explanation which
rendered certain the locatiori of warrant No. Y, muft of
neceffity alfo render certain the location of No. 2, which
depends, for its beginning, upon the location of No. i.
In certiim eft quod certum reddi poteoI. The two locations
are dependent upon-and conne&ed with each other; and
the explanation of the firft muft alfo explain the fecond.
It is evident that it was Mafon's intention that the two
tra~ts fhould lie along fide of each other, and the rendering certain the firft, upon which the fecond was dependent, could never bq confidered as withdrawing, the
one from the other, and placing them many miles afunder.
If it was Mafon's intention in O&ober to make a new location why did he not avow it ? No perfon had applied
to. appropriate the land he wanted. No one had interfered, or was about interfering to take up that tra&. There
was nothing to prevent him from exprefsly withdrawing
the entry of April, and making an entire new location.
But his obje& was not to remove the location which he
had a&ually made, but only more fully to explain the
ideas which he had at firft intended to exprefs, but which
on account of the inaccurate knowledge of the names of
places and of the real geography of the country, he had
failed to do. 'raking then the entry of O0ober as an explanation only,- it applies as well to fix the true location
of wgrrant No. 2, as of No. i; and the furvey of No.
2, is as correfpondent to its entry, as that of No. i, is
to its entry..
Nothing can more clearly prove Mafon's intention to be
to explain, and not to remove his entries of April, 1780,
than his omitting to fay any thing refpeffing his former.
entry of 8,300 acres, at the time he was explaining the
Ontry of 8,400. B3ecaufe having no idea that his a&t

DECEMBER, isot.

75

would be conftrued to be any thing more than an explanation, it muff apply as well to the former as to the latter. But if his intention had been to remove the location
of warrant No. i, he would either have exprefsly removed No. 2, at the fame time, or elfe would not have
ordered the furvey of No. 2, to be made contiguous to
that of No. i. He might as eafily have explained No. 2,
asNo. z.
Words are but the reprefentatives, and not always the
true reprefentatives, of ideas. They do not always ex.
prefs, nor are they the uncontrollable evidexnce of the
ideas of the perfon ufing them. They may be explained
by the tone of the voice, by the emphafis, by the geftures,
or by the afions of the perfon fpeaking'. To determine,
at a fubfequent period of time, the nature of the act
from the words ufed, and not to fuffer the words to be
explained by other proof of the nature of the a4, is not
a fair mode of feeking for truth.
The queftion is, what particular fpot did Mafon mean
to locate by his entry of April ? He has himfelf anfwered
the queftion by his explanation in Oober. The only
doubt can be whether he fpoke the truth. He certainly
had no motive for deception. there were then no contending claims. No other perfon had attempted to locate
the land which he wifled to appropriate. He had no
reafon to wifh to preferve the priority of his entries, becaufe the book of entries was open before him, and he
could fee that no perfon had entered for the fame land;
a new entry therefore in Oaober would have been as
good as his old entry in April.
The 'a& of affembly fays that the warrant " ]hall be
good and valid until executed by a6tual furvey." The furvey
then, and not the entry is the execution of the warrant.
The warrant merges in, the furvey. This fhews that the
legiflature attached greater importance to the furvey, than
to the entry.
If then the land furveyed, is the fame land which Mafon fixed his eye upon, but inaccurately defcribed in
April, then the furvey was correly made and purfuant
to the atual location,

Wiason
V.
MASON.

SUP.RME ' COURT U. S.
WILSON6
o
2d But admitting, for the fake of argumenit, :that
1v
the furvey did not correfpond with the entry, -et Mafon
SMAS ON.
having paid the morley for the Land, and furveyed it, he
was, as-to thz commonwealth, a bona fide purchafer, for
b valuable confideration and entitled to a grant of the
land. The commonwealth could not refufe, becaufe the
want of an entry was no injury to her. Mafon had'his
choice among all the WAIe anid unappropriated land in
ite
ite.
It was of no importance to the commonwealth,
wht th 'r he took tils tra6t or another. The commonwealth fold all her la-d at the fame price. The land was
wafte and unappropriated, and the warrant being executed by a&ual furveywas fpent and gone, funaus #(tio.
The commowiwcaith had no means to prevent the emanation of a gramnt.
As between the commonwealth,
illrefore, and. Mafon, this was a contra&t, for that fperific tra& of land. It was as if the warrant ha, been
fpecial, for that particular land. The warrant, having
been originally general, b-cani
fpecial, as againft the
commonweaolth, by tIPe furvey. rhe land ceafed to be
waftc and unappropriated, as to the commoniwealth, who
was bound by. the furvey and could not fell it to another.
3 d. Tlhis being the cafe, and Wilfon having a full
knowledge of all thefe faE1s before he made his entry,
became a malh fide purchafer. This is one of the grounds
upon which judge ines decided -the cafe; (here the
opinion of judge Innes was read, with the authorities
there cited.) As a fecond purchafer with notice, he
could take only the' right which the commonwealth had,
fubje& to the contra& with Mafon.

.The preamble of a Ilatute is faid to be a key to, unlock
its meaning. It appears by the preamble of the a& of
177Y, to have been the obje& of the legiflaturt-, ift to
enccurage migration, and t6 promote population ; 2d to
increafe the.revenue.
To induce perfons to.become purcnalers it became necel iry to fecure their titles, and for this purpofe, as the
fituation of the cbutty would not permit. them in all
cafes tp make a&ual furveys, an entry, or location of the
land ehtqrcd in the fuveyor'a books,. was to be confidered
as equivalent, to a furvey, for the purpofe of appropri-

DECEMBER, flovi
atiig the land. and fecuring a title. A fnriey returned
an4 recorded. i%, it.tlf,. a,mot. une4quivocal aa f
4p.propriation than an- fitry, ard -the.Uw.has made it the
oniy means of executing the warrauit. No time is fixed
by law' fqr, the making the furvey, bentufe in many parts
of the ftato it .was at.that time impoffible to.make. it, orl
gc~'ount :o£ Indians, and no time Foild be afcertained
with any degree of precifion when. it .would become pofi.
fible. For the fecurity of fubfequent purchafers, it alfo

heamre neceffiary thii forie rnans of. -hotice thould ''be
preicribed, that they tright avoid an interference with
prior rights. Hence it was ena&ed that the locations of
a book, and. flhould be fod
Iwarrants fbould 'be entered iti,
fpecial that. others might be enabled,', with certainty td
l4cate other warrants on the adijacant refiduul." The ob..
jcis of the commonwealth in requiring 6ntriex was not
tOjfecure her own immediate intereft, but -that of purchaferg, by giving .them notice: and if the fubfequent
pturchafer acquires fuch' notice, it is of io importance
whether itbe.by an entry.which was liable to be changeds
or by an adual furvey recorded, which was a complete.
ecution,of.. the warrant and could not be altered. In,
ecdlthe latter feems to be the more complete and effectual notice, and to anfwer the intention of the legiflature
better than notice by an entry only.;
The other obje& of the legifla'ture was to raife motey.
If then complete notice of the, location was given to the

.fibfequent, purchafer, arid th, uloney paid :to. the 'edmmo.nwealth, the two obje&&of the. legiflature Were fully
anfwered, and neither "the commonwealth nor that ftblequent purchafer had any. right. to compli. No injury'
was done to either. The.perton who wth full notice ofl
thefe fa&s, infifts upon bec Ming a ficond' purchafer,.
becomes fuch in his own wrong, and if a lofs muft fall
updn eithe4 it mutt 'light upon him, who" thus volfintarily put himfelf in dangeri Where the objeO of afta,"
tlnory proviflon is only to give notices if notice is had, by
other, means, it has the fame effea as if.given;in th4'mode'
required by the ftatute, Such have been the uniform de=ifions in England ;on the flatutes of inrollment, and,- fo
well eftablifhed is.
the do&rine that it can notbe neceffary
to cite authorities to fupport it. Although where a new
right-is given by ftaiutes, a tri& compliante *ith the

WixrsW
I.
MAQ9k;

SUPREME COURT
Wi sow
Iv.
MAsoN.
'drawings

. S.

provifions of the ifatute is neceffary, yet it is not necefflryfor every purpofe. Blackwell v. Harper, 2 4th. 94, 95.
Mrs. Blackwell having defigned and engraved certain
of plants, but omitted to engrave on the plate
the. day of their firft publication, as required by the ftatute, lord chancellor flardwicke decreed a perpetual in.,
junfion againif Harper, notwithfianding that omiflion j
ut did not decree an account of the profits.

It will not be forgotten that Handley, a deputy furveyor
of the county, was the partner of Wilfon in this bufinefs,
and was the perfon who a&ually made the entry, and
that he fraudulently took advantage of the knowledge of
Mafon's furveys, which he acquired by means of his official fituation, contrary to the exprefs provifions and fpiTit of the aCt of affembly of 1779, which enafts, that "for
" preventing hafly and furreptitiour grants and avoiding
"controverfies and expenfkve law fuits, no furveyor fhall at
any time within twelve months after the furvey made,
" iffue or deliver any certificate, copy or.plat of land by
" him furveyed, except only to the perfon for whom the
4' fame was furveyed."
This claufe of the a& was made
for the very purpofe of preventing others from taking
-that advantage of furveys which the deputy furveyor
himfelf has here taken ; the law not contemplating the
cafe of a furveyor fo regardlefs of his duty and ol his
oath as to .be guilty of an a&l like this. A title thus
founded, in fraud can never be fupported. Upon a caveat the court is to exercif; a chancery jurifdi&ion. The
at fays "the court (hall proceed to determine the right
" of. thp caufe in a fummary way." This they cannot do
without chancery powers. The court in Kentucky has
fo conftrued the aot, M. S. S..reports, p. 60, Ifaact v.
Willis, and alfo in page 224.
If Wilfon, by purfuing the ftri& letter of- the law, has
acquired any thing like a legal right, the court, as a court
of chancery, will confider thofe circumftances of fraud
which go to invalidate his right in equity.
4 th. Wilfon is not, under the proviflions of the law,
entitled to a caveat in this cafe.

The roceeding by caveat is in derogation of the common law, and therefore the aCt which authorizes it is to

DECEMBER, x8ot.
e conftrued ftrialy. The aa mentions only four cafes
in which a caveat may be entered. ift. If the plat and
certificate of furvey be not returned into the land office
within twelve months after the furvey made, it fhall be
lawful for any other perfon to enter a caveat. 2d. If the
breadth of the plat be not one third of its length. 3 d. If
any perfon fhall obtain a furvey of lands io which another
hath, by law, a better right. 4 th. When upon a caveat
judgment fliall be given for the defendant and lie fhall not
lodge a copy of that judgment in the -land office within
three months thereafter. In the Ift, 2d and 4 th cafes
the caveat is allowed for the purpofe of prote&ing the
rights of the commonwealth ; they do not apply to the
prefent queftion In the 3 d cafe the caveat is given as
a remedy to him who bath by law a better right, and it
is upon this ground that Wilfon claims the procefs.
If we examine the words of the law according to their
grammatical conftruaion, or' compare them with the
fpirit and objea of the law, we fhall find that the better
right which can fupport a caveat, muft be a right exifting
at the time of the furvey obtained, and not a right arifing afterwards. The words of the a& are " if any per.
fon .kafl obtain a furvey of lands to which another bath
by law a better right." The word* ai is in the prefent
tenfe, and muft apply either to the time of paffing the
law, or to the time of committing the injury which is the
caufe of the caveat. It could not apply to the time ofpaffing the a&5 , becaufe at that time there exifted no rights
to thofe wafte and unappropriated lands which were the
fubje& of that a&. The better right then, was a right
to be derived under that law. The injury to be remedied
by the caveat was the injury done by a furvey 'of lands to
which another lhould have a better right. But a furvey
of lands, to which no other perfon had h right, can not
be an injury to any one, and can be no ground for a caveat.
As to Wil on's being in the fituation of one certanw de
damno evitando, the affertion can not pollbly be deemed
corre&. If he is in danger of lofs, he has knowingly
put himfelf in danger; he has fought the pofition he is
in, with a full foreknowledge of all its evils. He was
under no neceffity of interfering with Mafon's claims.
His warrant was general. The wildernefs was before
him, and he knew where .Mafon bad furveyed his ]an4

WILSON

Iv.
MASON.

"'

4

SUPREME COUHT 'U. S.
Wer.snte
v.
MA CON'.

V

Tha hthme loid Kaim; who thys 4?no man is confidous of
' wroig when, h takes.advantage of an error committed
(.4by another, to fai himfelf from lofs," fays alfo in the
fati breath,'",c brt ,inlucra, captandao, the moral fenfe
f( teaths a dlffirent leffon. Every one is confcious of
'wrong whoe an error islaid hold of to make gain by it!
f' The confnoufnefs of i;njuftice, when fuch advantage is
i.taken, 'is
'inded..intefior in degree, but the rtame in
V kinid with the injuftice. of.,'obbing an innocent perfon
of hi',goods or his reputotion." HereWilfon evidently

had an inteution of, making gain by the error of Mafon ;
and if by that -meana- hehas:put his purchafe money at
rifk, it is ntt for a court of la.v or of equity, to be anxious
to atlift him. Wilfon,: findinkthai;Mafon had anadvarli.
tage by .the priorityof his location, contrived (by the affiftance of Handley,. his fr .udtileni coadjutor) a plan by
which he hoped to reap the fruits of Maibn's induftry;
ahdM'ow he would-.fain- make the court believe he was an
innocent purchafer, ftrivirrg to, avoid a lofs,, the dangerbf
which he had iticurred by pure mifadventure.
Upon the whole then, Mafon having obtained a right
to this tra& of land againfi the comm6nwealth, and.Wilfon having notice of that right, before he purchafedi has
no claim at all ; but if he had, his remedy is not by Caveat.
Yones, ov the famefide.

'This caufe'naturally divides itfelf, into two queftion.
ift. Whether Mafon has acquired a right to the patent.
2d. If Mafon'has not, whether Wilfon has; .for ir
neither has a right, Wilfon can recover nothing.
The entry of Mafon in April, 1780, is fuppofed tobo
fo abfolutely binding upon him, Athat he could.not alter it
without withdrawing it entirely, notwithftandirig that he
fubfequently faid he was miftaken in fuppofing the Land
to lie above the weft fork, when in fa& it was below. A
man may go upon the land and fix in his mind a certain
tra&, but when he goes to the furveyor's office he inay
miftake its fituation, and fay it is on the eafr when it lies
on the weft, or -the north when it lies' n the fouti i.but

DECEMBER, i6,i.
when he difcovers his miftake, an explanation is no evi- -WILSO
dence that his choice has been altered. Here is no proof
of an intention to withdraw his firft entry ; or to appro- M.PsoN.
priate a different trait of land from that which he firft '--r 0
intendt d. The only evidence which can be drawn from
the entry of Oaober is, that he had been miftaken as to
the point of compafs, and as to the name of a particular
fork i"Panther creek. The land which'he had chofen
lies above a branch of Panther creek which he fuppofed
to be called the Weft Fork, but which is not now known
by that name. Mafon was one of the firif, if not the
very firft adventurer in the lands on Panther creek. There
is no evidence that particular branches of that creek had
names given them before.he made his entries in April.
He had as good a right to give names to places as any one
elfe.
But a furvey itfelf is as- good a location as an entry.
Indeed it is better, becaufe it is an a&ual location and occupation of the land. 'The lines are not merely defcribed
by words which are uncertain, but are marked out upon
the land itfelf. It is a pedis pf/ff/o, 'an a~lual feizen. A
furvey differs from an entry as a diagram differs from i
problem ; or a propofition from its demonftration. If
notice is the obj Ct& of the flatute, a furvey recorded is
better than an entry, as it is more definite and certain.
If the object is to give evidence of an appropriation, it
is better than an entry in the furveyor's book, becaufe it
is an a& in pais, an actuAl poiflffion. The one is but
the command to locate, the other is the location itfelf.
In this cafe entry does not dbnflifl with entry, and furvey with furvey ; but a prior furvey and occupation, with
a fubfequent entry.
A ftrong difference is made by the act of affembly between a furvey and an entry. The firft is a fatisfa6lion of
the warrant; and various claufes of different ads fpeak of a
furvey as the execution of the warrant. But the entry does
not affe& the warrant, which. is declared to be "always
" good and valid until executed by alualfurvey." The entry therefore is but an intermediate prqcefs by. which the
party gains a priority o right ; it is ntended merely as a
fubititute for a furvey, until an "al'ual/urvey" can be
L

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WrtioN
IIV.
MASON.

made. If, therefore, there had been no entry at all, yet
Mafon's right is equally good as if his entry had been
free from queftion. He has done the principal a& itfclf,
Sfor which an entry is only a temporary fubftitute.
Perhaps he ran fome rifk before 'his furvey was obtained ;
but when a furvey is compltted the warrant and the entry
are no longer of any effed or validity; they merge in the
tufvey as the firvey does in the patent.
2d. With refpea to the plaintiff's right, it feems clear
that it muft be a right exifting atthe time of the furvey.
if we wete diffeizers, as it ia contended, then we
gained a*defeafible inheritance. We had poffeffion, and
,wheiher legal or not, is of -no confequence, it was-a bet ter right than Wilfon's, and good againft all the world
but the lawful owner.
The acquifition of a legal title takes away the remedy
by envet. The warrant, entry and furvty, conflitute
only an incipient equitable title, to be completed by the
patent, which a caveat is the proper procefs to arreft. This
being then entirely aconteft about equitable rights, the
procefs by caveat muft be an equitable remedy, and gives
the court an equity jurifdidion.
If this caveat had not prevented, there is no doubt that
Mifon, 'having obtainedand returned his furvey in due
time, would have had a patent as a matter of courfe.
Suppofe the commonwealth had attempted, like any
other vendor, t6 defeat the claim of Mafon, would not
a court, of chancery have compelled a conveyance ?
Every thing had been done by Mafan which the com-.
monwealth had a right to require; as againft her thereft e.,there muft have been a decree. If fo, then this
;onprt, exerciing the fame chancery powers with-the
;urt below,, will give the fame judgment which that
coui't has rightfully given, in deciding that a contra&
vxifed between Mafon and the .cQmmonwealth which a
co6vrt of chancery would have carried into effe& ; and
th4t.Wilfon having a full knowledge of tht exifting contraL, became a fubfequent purchafer;. and, therefore, af
to Mifon he was : purichafer mala fide, and can, never
defeat the right of Mafon.

DECEMBER,

i.

.?avoif, in re(j..

WI LS09

Can lands be appropriated in, more ways than one ? If
MA s10i
it is decided that the mode of appropriation is unique,'
. ..
then there -can be no tantamount ad. . The one mod
pointed out by She ftatute muff be purfued. In attempt-'
ing to come at the-true, co nflruaion of the land law of
1779, itis highly important to take into confideration'the
a& which .immediately prcedes it, for the fettling of
certain then exifting claims and rights. They may indeed
be called twin ads, being paffed on the fame day, and
referring to each other. The preamble of the firft ad reCognizes the great variety of claims, and the evils refult.
ing from various modes of gaining a title to lands; to remedy which it declIres it to be neceffary..9" that fome cerU lain rule fhould be e/lablJhed," .&c. The legiflature, after
fettliilg exifting claims, go on to provide a Lnode'of Sc-

quiring titles in future, and to fix certain rules which
1hould be. obferved by all future purchafrs of public

lands. The great evil intended to be remedied, was the
exiftence of multifarious modes of acquiring titles. To
give the -& its proper remedial effed, it muR be conftrued ftridly ; otherwife the evil would continue to be
as great as ever. For if you once decide that titles way
be acquired in any other mode than that pointed out by
the ftatute, you open again that door to perplexity and
ambiguity Which the lepiflature intended to clofe forever.
It may not be improper here to remark, that no objedion has been raifed to the intritiefl merits of Wilfon's
claim. All the objedioks arife from its relation to Mafon's. Wilfon, therefore, has an intrinfic hgal claim,
which. nothitng can defeat but a pvi" -appropriation of
the land. This brings us again to the great queflions,.
what is a legal adtf appropriation? and what lands can
be called cae and unappropriated?
To afcertain the .meaning of thefe expreffions itis not
neceffary to confiuhi a gloffary. The manner-in which the

legifiature has ufed them on various occafions will leave
no doubt upon the fubjed. Sometimes'they call land
wafte and unappropriated after it has been fettled, and
fometinws even after it has been cleared and cultivated;
and landA bnce leg4a!y appropriated by legal entry, may

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WIx LSON
V.
.MAsoN.
f

again ,ecome wafte and unappropriated.by the purchafer's
not following ex.&ly the provifions of the law. Hence
it is apparent that when the legiflature ufe the terms
wafte and unappropriated land, they mean lands notavpropriated in the manner prefcribed by law.
We are then to enquire whether, 'at the time of Wilfon.'s entry, the land was fuch wafae and unappropriated
land, as, by the ad of affembly, Wilfon had a right to
appropriate.
We contend that an entry is affential, and that Mafon
never entered for the land in difpute, The entry called
for by the furvey is the entry of April, 1780. That is
clearly an entry for other land. It is a certain and- a fpecial entry. Its beginning is certain, and is above the weft
fork. The furvey is fome miles, below the weft fork. But
we are told the name of weft fork is uncertain. That the
fork f9 called is 'not a weft fork, but a north-eaft fork.
But a ffame is different from a defcription. The name is
arbitrary, and as long as a thing is.known by -Aparticular
name, it is of no importance what that name is.
'But ignorance of the country and the danger of acquiring accurate knowledge of it, are alleged both as a
proof of, and' an apology for the vaguenefs of the entry.
If evidence and excufes of this kind are to be allowed,
they will totally defeat the provifions of the law. It will
let in thofe loofe and vague claims which it was the obje6t of th legiflature to prevent. It is begging the queftion t6 ar'gue that. Mafon was under armiftake becaufe he
chofe to alter his entry ; and that what was originally in
itfelf certain, was uncertain, becaufe Mafon by a fubfequent a&t chofe.fo to confider it- But there was a reafon
why Mafon thould wifh to give it the appearance of
a miftake rather than Of a removal of his entry. If he
had exprefsly withdrawn his former entry, he would
have loft his priority ; and to fave himfelf the trouble of
,examining all the intermediate entries, as well as the ritk
of omitting a:,y of ihem, he chofe to hold up the idea of
correding a miftake,.
The entry of April then, being fufficiently certain,
the warrant attached itfelf to it, and the warrant and-

DECEMBER, i8oi.
entry taken together had the fame effe& as a fpecial
warrant defcribing that identical trad of land. If Mafon
had bought, or could buy a fl~ecial warrant tating de-,
fcriptively the land, he could have no other land than
that defcribed in his warrant.- When he bought his general warrant he had .the power of fixing its location at
his eledfion ; having made his cletion, the power is expended, and the location fixed.*
But it is contended,' that it the entry for 8,400 acres
was removed, the entry for 8,300 w,,s removed alfo ;
that the one is dependent on the other. This we deny.
Hw is it dependent? Can not one exift without the
other ? Or is it becaufe both were made by one peron ?
Suppofe the entry of warrant No. 2. had begun at a
mile diftance due north from the upper corner of entry
No. x. Would the removal of No. J. be a removal of
No. 2?
The defcription 6f the beginning of No. 2. was only a
defcription of a certain place, as was that alfo of No. z.
and his removal of the location of warrant No. i. did
not alter that place. Suppofe you make an entry, the
beginning of. which is a certain natural boundary. I make
an entry beginning at the north corner of yours. You
afterwards remove your entry. Does mine follow yours
whether I will or not ? Again, it is faid that No. 2. could
not be furveyed without furveying No. i. But this can
make no difference, it might make fome additional trouble, but creates no impoffibility. The lines of No. i. may
be run fo as to afcertain the beginning of No. 2."
It is faid that a furvey is as good an a& of appropriation as an entry, and equally anfvers all the objeds of
the ftatute. This might be a good argument, if the court
could make laws; but the law does not fo confider it.
It limits no time in which the furvey fhall be made.
The firvey, therefore, can not be confidrred as the a&
of appropriation. By the old land law, indeed, a furvcy
0 Whiington, .7ujliee. Do you deny the right of removing an entry?
Da ei/ If it were res integra, I fhould. But the whole landed property of Kentucky would be haken by fuch a judgment I admit, thre-.
fore, that an entry may be removed; but Mafon, as we contend, has nut
renioved his entry of 8,3oo acrces.

WILSON
v.
MASoN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

.Wiasov was tihe .fubflantial appropriating a& ; but thela elatf9e
,o.

of the land law, p.. 98, has altered it in this refpea.

MASON.

.It is contended alfo, that a furvey is better.notice than
an eptry.
When a law only modifies certain exiling rights, it is
to be confidered according to the rules of Cquity ; but
when a man claims under a law giving a right which did
wt'exi/i bbfqre, he muft bring his cafe ffritly within the
taw. 4 Bac. ab, 6.56, 12 Aod. 5.40, Birch v. Bellamy.
Viner, tit.flatute .506, 50.7.
Notice was not the only objea of the law in pr fcrib,
ivng an,entry, rhe greater obj,'6 was to. avoid confufion
irt the fale of lands, and perplexity in the titles, which
would have a bad effl upon the fale, and to eftablifh
an uniform mode of appropriating lands and locating
warrants. The argument that a furvey is better notice
than an ettry goes to provd that an entry is unneceffary.
Th furveyor isthe agent of the commonwealth with lipited powers, which muft be firialy purfued, or his aftl
4re void. He is by law dircded to proceed in a particula
manrier, and nouft not deviate. A fpecial power given
Uy ftatute muft be ftri&ly purfued, i Bur. 4'50, Rex v.
oxdale. The furveyor muff purfue the entry, and a furVey not correfponding with the entry is void. The ftatute
las made an entry neceffary. In a flatute creating a new
law, affirmative words impiy a negative. Appropriation
means a legal appropriation. The book of furveys could
not be intended to give notice, becaufe it is by law fhut
up for twelve months from every eye but that of the furveyor and, his employer. Tlhe f4rvey itfelf could not:be
notice, becaufe at any time within three months it is
alterable by the party, or by the furveyor, and until the
end of the three months it does not bind even the party
Iimfelf, or the furve.yor, and for twelve months afterwar4
it is by law kept. fecret.
The law being affirmative that you fhall give one kind
of notice, implies the negative tlat no other notice thall
be fufficient. The'furvey in itfelf was wrong, illegal and
ioid, An aCi in itfelf wrong can never be the foundation
of'right. Land law, p. 96, andT ./4ht v. $eman, .tis.day
decided.

DECEMBER, toz,
But in the whole courfe of decifions in Kentucky a WILSON
iv.
furvey has never been confidered as giving a right. The
adjudications for eighteen years do not thew the date of MASON.
a furvey to be material as to notice, nor has it ever been
fo confidered. There has never been a title fupported upon a furvey without an entry fincq the year'1779. To
overthrow this courfe of decifiQns would fhake the titles
of half the land in Kentucky. Arguments drawn from
the inconvenience of unfettling titles to real eftate have
always been refpeaed. If it is an error, yet where ",it is
" eftablifhed and has taken root, upon which any rule of
"4 prqperty depends, it ought to be adhered to by thejudges,
" fill the legiflature think proper to alter it, left the ne*
". determination fhould have a retrofpe&, and fhake many
c qutftions already fettled." i B1. Rep. 264, Robiton
f
.
.Bland. 2 Bi. Rep. 696, Rice v. Shute. I P. Williams 223
Regina v. Ballivos and Burgenfis de Be.wdley. In i P. Williams, 399, "Goodrightv. Wright. *rhe court faid " that
.1the altering fettled rules concerning property is the moll
" "dangerous'way of removing land mnaris." The fame doctrine is held in 2 P. Will. 2 Dawes v. Ferres, and in'
.Wagstaf v. Wagstaf, 2 P. Wll.259.
The furvey could be no notice to Wilfon becaufe it was
Alterable, he knew it ought to be altered, and he might
well fuppofe it would be altired. The book of furveys is
no record, and is not of more authority than the book
of entries, which is the only book to be reforted to, to
know what lands have been appropriated.
But if .the furvey was notice, it was notice only of an
illegal a&. Notice can not make that lawful which was
unlawful in itfelf, nor that unlawful which was in itfelf
lawful. 4 Zerm Rep. 639, Farrv. Newman.
The court took time till this term to confider, and
n~w the chief juftice delivered the following opinion:
Opinion of the Court.
THIS is a writ of error to a jbdgment of the court of
the United States for the diftrit of Kentucky, rendered'
on a caveat, and is governed by the land laws of Virgihia.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON
IV.
MA oN.

In the year 1779 the lkgiflature ot that commonwealth
opened adland office and offered for fale, with fome refervations,, fo much of that trad of country lying within
Sits boundaries fouth.eaft of the river Ohio as was then
unappropriated: a part of which now conftlitutes the ftate
of Kentucky.
Every perfon who would pay at the rate of forty
pounds for one hundred acres into the, treafury of the flate,
be ame entitled to luch quantity of wafte and unappropriatcd land as was, at that rate, equivalent to the money paid,
for which a certificate was given to the regifter of the
land office, whofe duty it was on receipt thereof, to iffue
a warrant for the quantity of land purchafed, authorizing any furveyor, qualified according to law, to lay off
and furvey the fame. A warrant might alfo be iffued on
certain other rights.
A chief furveyor was appointed for each county, whofe
duty it was to nominate a fufficient number of deputies
for the bufinefs of his county, and the law proceeded to
direct that "every perfon, having a land warrant founded
" on any of the before mentioned rights, and being dec firous of locating the fame on any particular wafte and
-unappropriated lands, fliall lodge fuch warrant with
" the chief furveyor of the county wherein the faid lands
" or the greater part of them lie, who fhall give a receipt
" for the fame if requited. The party fhall dire&q the
" location thereof fo fpecially and precifely as that others
" may be enabled with certainty to locate other warrants
c on the adjacent refiduum ; which location fliall bear
"date on the day on which it fhall be made, and fhall be
" entered by the furveyor in a book to be kept for that'
"' purpofe, in which there fhall be left no blank leaves or
"fpaces between the different entries."
George Mafon was one of the earlieft purchafers under
this law.
On the 29 th of April, i 78o, he made the following
entries:
(t 780, 29 th April, George Mafon enters 8,400 acres
iof land to begin on Panther creek -on the eaft fide

DECEMBER, 186.
v thereof, oppofite to a beech on the weft fide about four
49 miles above the mouth of the weft fork, and to run up
",and down the faid creek and eaftwardly for quantity."
cc 1780, April 29 th, George Mafon enters 8,300 acres,
dc to begin at the upper corner of his 8,40o acre entry, and
" to run up the creek on the eaft fide and back for quan-

I' tity."

Panther creek purfues a general weftwardly courfe from
its fource till it empties into Green river.
The creek forks fomething more than twelve miles and
one quarter of a mile in a ftraight line above its mouth;
and one of thofe forks, the direfion of which towards its
fource is northwardly, has, from the beginning of the year
the weft fork, and the other
178o, beefi generally termed
creek.
has been termed Panther
On the 27 th of Oaober 1780, Mr. Mafon made the
following entry witlA the fame furveyor:
fs 178o, Otober the 2 7th, George Mafon delires to

,rmake his entry of 8,400 acres, more fpecial on Panther'

creek, viz. to'begin four miles above the forks of Panther
"creek where it mou~ths into Green river on the eaft fide
"running up and back for quantity."
In the months of Septen~ber and Oqober, 1783, thefe
two entries of 8,4oo and 8,300 acres were furveyed by

James Horo, one of the deputy furveyors of the county
of Jefferfon, which furveys, as was the cuftom, were
made conformably to the inftrufions given by Mr. Mafon's agent
The furvey of the entry of 8,4oo acres is fuppofed to
conform to the explanation or amendment of that entry
made in O&ober, 1780. It begins four miles above the
mouth of Panther creek and fomething more than eight.
miles below its forks.
The furvey of the 8,300 acre entry adjoins the furvey
of 8,400 acres on the upper fide and the plat was fhown
bi the furveyor beforehe would return it to the then agent
M

WILSON
MV.
MASON.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILsoN

IV.
MASON.

of Mr. Mafon, who, after its fuppofed variance from the
entry was fuggefted to him, approved it and direaed it

to be returned to the office.
Thefe furveys were returned in the courfe of the fall,

1783.
The fuppofed variance between the turvey and location
of the 8,300 acres was afterwards, about the I2th of
September, 1784, pointed out by the furveyor to a fubfequent agent of Mr. Mafon, who alfo approved of the
manner in which the furveys were made, and returned them to the land office.
On the 9 th of April, 1783, George Wilfon enters
with the furveyor of Jefferfon county 49,921acres of
land on Panther creek, fo as entirely to include George
Blafon's furvey of 8,300 acres.
This entry, though in the name of George Wilfon,
was made by John Handley, a'deputy furveyor for Jefferfon county, for his own benefit and that of Chriftopher Greenup, as well as for the benefit of George Wilfon, and at the time of making the entry, full knowledge
of the previous furvey -made of the fame land for George
Mafon, had been obtained by the faid Handley, who had
feen the furveys in the office and had communicated this
information to his two partners in the entry.
In the month of March,' 7 84, George Wilfon entered in the fupreme court of the diftriL6 of Kentucky
a caveat to prevent a grant from iffuing on George Mafon's furvey of 8,3oo acre, becaufe the furvey was made
contrary to location, and becaufe the entry was vague, he
claiming the fame, or fo much thereof as interferes with
his entry made on treafury warrants for 40,926 acres on
the 9 th of April, 1784.
Pending the caveat George MafoA departed this life,
and the fuji was revived againft Richard Mafon, devifee
of the aid George, at whofe petition it was removed into
the court of the 'United States, held for the diftri& of
Kentucky.

DECEMBER, icr.

94

A croft caveat was entered in the fame court'on the
part of Richard Mafon, to prevent the iffuing a patefit to
George Wilfon, aitd there caufes coming on to be heard,
it was agreed that the judgment rendered in the caveat
Wilfon v.. Mafon, fhould be alfo entered in the cafe of
'Mafon Y. Wilfon.

In June term xgoo, the opinion of the court for the
diftri& of Kentucky was given that the defendant Mafon
had the better right, and. it was ordered that the caveat
entered by Wilfon fhould be difmiffed.
To this judgment the plaintiff Wilfon has obtained a
writ of errbr, and the principal queftion now to be decided by this court is, which of the parties has the better
right ? .
But before entering on the queftion it may be neceffary
to notice a preliminary ,point made by the counfel for the
defendant in error. He contends that in a caveat the decifion of the diftri6t court is final, and 'that the caufe
cannot be carried before a fuperior tribunal.
To maintain' this propofition he relies on an al of the
legiflature of Virginia, making the judgments of the diftri& courts of the fiate final in cafes of ca%,eat; and on the
compa& between Virginia and Kentucky, which ftipulates that rights acquired under the common'wealth of
Virginia fhall- be decided according to the thep exifting
laws.
This argument would not appea.r.to be well founded
had Virginia and Kentucky even been for every purpofe
independent nations ;.becaufe thecompa& muft be confidered as providing for the prefervation of titles, not of the
tribunals which fhould decide on thofi titles., But when
their fituation in regard to the United States is contemplated, the court cannot perceive how a doubt could have
exifted relpeffing this point. The conftitution of the
United States, to which the parties to this compa& had
affented, gave jurifdi&ion to the federal courts in con-

troverfies between citizens of different ftates. The fame
conRitutien veiled in this court an appellate jurifdifion
ip all cafes where original jurifdifion was given to the

WILoN
'V.

MASON.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

IV
MASON.

inferior: courts,, with only " fuch exceptions and under
41fuch regulations as the congrefs (hall mike." Congrefs,
in purfuance to the confitution, has paffed a law on the
'fubje&j in which the appellate jurifdi&ion of this court
is defcribed in general terms fo as to comprehend this cafe,
nor is there in that law any exception or regulation which
would 'exclude the cafe of a caveat from its general provifions. If then the compa& between Virginia and Kentucky was even fufceptible of the conftrufion contended
for, that conftruflion could only be maintained on the
principle that the legiflatures of any two ftates might,
by agreement between themfelves, annul the confitution
of the United States.

The jurifdi&ion of the court being perfe6ly clear, it
remains to enquire which of the parties has the better
right.
The title of Mafon being eldeft is of courfe the beft
if it be not in itfeif defedive.
In the caveat of the plaintiff in error two defeas irk
the title of the defendant are affigned.
,ft.That his entry is vague.
2ldy. That he has furveyed contrary to his location.
Tle firft was abandoned in argument, and does not
appear to the court to have been maintainable.
The fecond (hall now be confidered.
To fupport the allegation that the furvey has been
made contary. to the lotation, the entry and the furvqy
are produced.
The entry calls for a beginning on the upper c6rner of
George Mafon's entry of 8,4oo acres. To afcertain this
fpot reference muft be had to the entry called for. That
is to begm. on Panther creek, on the eaft fide thereof,
•oppofite to a beech on the weft fide, about four miles
above the, mouth of the weft fork, and to run up and
down the faid creek and eaftwardly for quantity.

DECEMBER, ttos.

93

The branch of, Panther creek which was at' the date of
the entry generally denominated the weft forks" is, fomething more than twelve miles and one-quarter of a mile
above its mouth. The entry of 8,400 acres is to begin
four miles above the weft fork, and the land in controverfy ought to be placed above that entry. Yet it is furyeyed below the weft fork.
. To obviate this difficulty the counfel for the defendant
in error produces and relies upon, the 'entry of O ober
2 7 th, 1780.

That entry is in thefe words:
"George Mafonl defires to malre his entry of 8,400
acres more fpecial on Panther Creek,' viz to begin four
miles above the forks of Panther creek, where it mouths
into Green river, on the eaft fide, running up and back
for quantity."
This entry is contended to be, not a removal, but an
explanation of that which hid been i.ade on the 29 th of
April, 178o, and being merely an explanation, the furvey of the ind in controverfy, beginning at the upper
corner of the furvey of, the 8,400 acre tra&, conforms to
its otiginal, location, and is confequently free from the
exception made to it.
If this pofition be true, the entry of the 27 th of October, 17 h6, muft defcribe the fame land with that whicl
is defcribed, though with Jefs certainty, by the entry of
the zgth of April in the fame year.
But the'entry of the 29 th of April, calls f6r a beginning four miles aboye the mouth of the weft fork of
Panther creek, which 'fork' is more then twelve miles in
a ftraight 'line above the mouth of the creek, and the fubfequent entry begins four miles above the forks of Panther
creek where it mouths into Green river." The weft fork
of Panther creek and the mouth of the fame ereek where
it empties into the river are perfe&ly diftinCk and feparate
places and were fo underftood at the time this location
was'made.

WZLsI
Wv.
MAoW;

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON
W'.
MAsoN.
-w

It is however contended that in the extenfive wildernefs
offered for fale, accuracy of defcription was not to be
expeCted, and the point of union between, a creek and
river might well be miftaken for the forks of a creek.
This would not be very probable in any cafe, but is
totally inadmiffible in this, becaufe names of places which
they were generally underftood to poffefs have been ufed
by the perfon locating for Mr. Mafon, and as there are no
other controlling boundaries referred to, they muft be
underftood as defignating the water courfes which were
commonly defcribed by thofe names, and which any perfon inclined to locate the adjacent refiduum, would fieceffarily fuppofe to have been referred to by them.
But if the location of O&ober explains without removing that of April, then the original entry might without fuch explanation,. have been there furveyed, and
could not have been properly furveyed four miles above
the weft fork.
This would fcarcely have been attempted.
,Indeed the counfelj"or the appellee, in admitting that
an entry made on.the 'landin controverfy, fubfequent to
Mafon's entry, but befo ' his furvey, would have been
good, feems to have difclofed an opinion that the original
entry did not comprehend the land in queftion, and that
not the entry, but the furvey. is to be relied on as the
foundation of his title.
To the court it appears perfecaly clear, that the entry
of the 2 7 th of Oaober was a removal and not an explanation, -of that of the 19 th of.April.
IIt has not been contended that the removal of the 8,400
acre entry has alfo removed that of 8,300 acres.
The title of Mafon then if good, muft be (hewn to be
fo by eftablifhing that a furvey without an entry is A fuffcient foundation for a title.
With a view to difcover whether this
queftion has been
f'ettled in Kentucky all the adjudications contained in the

DECEMBER, i8oi.
book of reports furnifhed by the counfel for the plaihtiff
in error, have been examined. It is not perceived either
that the queftion has been direfly determined, or that
any priiciples have been fettled which govern it.
This cafe then is of the firft impreffion.
The a& of the Virginia legiflature muft be expounded
jaccording to the opinion this court may entertain of its
import, without deriving any aid from the decifions of the
fiate tribunals.
In 1779, Virginia opened a land office for the fale of
an extenfive unfettled and almoft unexplored country'
the motives for which are fiated in the preamble of the
ftatute to have been, " to encourage the migration of
foreigners, promote population, increafe the annual revenue, and create a fund for difcharging the public debt."
Any perfon whatever might become a purchafer of any
portion of thefe ]inds by paying into the treafury of the
commonwealth the purchafe money required b1 law. By
doing fo he became intitled to a warrant authorizing any
furveyor to lay off for him in one or more furveys the
quantity of land purchafed. It was apparently contemplated by the law that the number of purchafers would
immediately become very confiderable. The condition
of thefe purchafers in this ftage of the contrad ought
to be diftinaly underflood. They had acquired a right
each to appropriate to hinifelf fo much of the vacant land
belonging to the commonwealth as he had purchafed, but
no right either in common or feverally, to the whole or
any particular part of the country, until fuch ight fhould
be acquired by further meafures.
This was at the fame time the fituation of a great number of perfons, and a prior was in no refpe& more eligibly
circumftanced than a fubfequent purchafer, except in the
fingle cafe of both applying precifely at the fame time,
for the purpofe of appropriating each to himfelf the fame
land. Had the purchafer of the firft warrant been negligent enough to hold it up until the whole land was appropriated, the title of every fubfequent purchafer would
have been good againft him, and he: would have been

WILsOY
IV.
MAsoI.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
W1L$9O
v.
MAsoN.

without remedy. The original purchafe of a warrant
then, creating only a general claim which gave of itfelf
only in a fingle cafe priority of right to the prior purchafer, it became indifpenfably neccffary to prefcribe a
mode by which this general title hould be fatisfied by
the appropriation of a particular traa of land,
This mode feems to haye been prefcribed by that part
of the ad which fays that " every perfon having a land
" warrant and being defirous of locating the fame on any
particular wafte and unappropriated lands, f/all lodge
" fucb warrant with the furveyor of the country wherein
the lands or the greater part of them lie." "The party
" hall direa the location thereof fo fpecially and pre" cifely that others may be enabled with certainty, to lo"cate other warrants on the adjacent refiduum ; which
" location (hall bear date the day on which it (hall be
" made, and (hall be entered by the furveyor in a book
"to be kept for that purpofe."
This mode of appropriation pointed out by the law a6
that which muft be ufed by any perfon defirous of locating a warrant on any liarticular wafte and unappropri.
ated land, requires that the location (hall be given to th(
furveyor with the warrant, in order to be entered in ;
book kept for that purpofe, which is denominated the
book of entries.
It is apparent throughout the whole aa that the legiflature never contemplated a furvey as being in itfelf an
appropriation of land, or fuppofed that one would be
ever made, if not founded on a previous entry.
Some few of the many paffages which are found in
various parts of the law will be feleded to evince this
pofition.
The furveyor is forbidden to admit the entry of any
warrant on tre afury rights, except pre-emption warrants,
in his books before the firft day of May next fucceeding
the paffage, of the ai. But the prohibition does not extend to a rurvey, and yet this would have been equally
ineceffary if land could have been appropriated by a fur-vey 'without a previous locatiou.

DECEMBER, i8ox.
It is declared that no entry or location fhall be admitted for certain lands which are defcribed in the a& and
intended to be referved : But there is no dclaration that
they ihall not be furveyed. This omiffion manifefts an
opinion that they could not be appropriated by furvey
alone.
In prefcribing the duty of a furveyor the law enjoins
him to proceed with all praCticable difpatch to furvey all
lands entered in his office; and many rules are giv'n to regulate the fuveying of entries ; but there is not a fyllable in
the aC which contemplates or r.-,akes a fingle provifion
for furveys not founded on a prior entry made in the bopk
of entries.
The mode of appropriation then which the law defiynates has not been. purfued, but it is contended that ano.
ther courfe has been adopted which equally produces all
the objtcts defigned to be effe&ed by the location in the
book of entries, and whieh therefore ought to be .geceivei
as a fufficient fubftitute for an entry.
The legiflature of Virginia, 'when bringng her lands
'into the market, had undoubtedly a right to prefcribe
the terms on which ifhe would fell, and the mode to be
purfued-by purchafers for the purpofe of particularifing
the general title acquired by obtaining a land warrant.
The court is by no means fatisfied of its power to fub.
flitute any equivalent ad for that required by the law.
The cafe of Blackwell v. Harper, reported in 2. Atkyns, 93, has been cited to (how the authority of a court
to difpenfe with part of a ftatute direffing the mode of
proceeding to be obferwed by a perfon who claims title
under fuch ftatute.
That cafe arofe under an af of parliament which direds that "9any perfon who (hall invent, or defign, engrave, &c. any hiftorical or other print or prints, fhall
have the fole right 1nd liberty of printing and re-printing
the fame for the term of fourteen years, to commence
from the day of the firft publilbing thereof, which (hall
be truly engraved with the name of. the proprietor on
each plate, and printed on every fuch print or prints."
N

WILSON
v.
MASON.

3UPREME COURT U. S.
WtcsotN

The plaintiff had engraved cevtain medicinal plants, a

IV.

-work deemed within the at, and hffd brought a bill to

MAS3N.

4-

V'

eftablifh her right to the fole property in them, and to
reftrain the defendant from copying and engraving tliem,
upon the penalties within the at of parliament.
It was objeded that the day of publication from which
the term was to commence had not been engraved, and
fo the ad had not been complied with and confequdntly
the propert. had not vefted.
Lord Hardwicke was of opinion that the property
"efted, although the day of publication was not engraved,
and that the words direting the day of publication to
be engraved on each print were ordly neceffary to make
the penalties incur, not to giye the title.
9 Here," faid .his lordihip,
the property is diftin d"

"

the claufe which vefts

This opinion howev~er was given with great doubt, and
only an injunation, was granted without cofts anid without
an order for an account.
The cafe of Blackwell v. Harper has, at the bar, been
4enied'to be law. However this may be, it is certainly
effentially variant from that before the, court.
The opinion of lord lFardwicke wa not that where
any circumftanee was required by a ftatute in order to
veft a title, other equivalent ads might be received as a
fubftitute; but that the particular ftatute on which the
cafe depended, did not require the omitted circumftance,
fince the property was vefted by a diftint claufe.
By a referenc- to the words themfelves, it will be per.
ceived that the expreffion of the ad of parliament is
fuch as might perhaps warrant this opinion. The property is conplktely vefted before the diref-ion concerning
the date of the publication is given, and lord Hardwicke
fuppofes it to be aqueftion on which judges would differ
whether the fubfequent words were mcrelv dire~tory or
defcriptive. A perfuCt property in the fpecific thing was
fuppofed by that judge t6 have been given by othr words,
and on that idea his decree is declared to have been formed.

DECEMBER, t8ox.
But in the cafe under confideration no property in the Witso
="fpecific thing is fuppofed to have been given by other
.words. No title to it is created by any other part of the MAso0.
a&. The purchafe of the land warrant gave a power to
appropriate, but was no appropriation, and the mode.
pointed out by the legiflature would feem to the court to
be that, which can alone give title to the particular lands.
But if this opinion fhould even be. too faria, if ax
,a. entirely equivalent to an entry could be received as a
fubftitute for one, a furvey does not appear to be fuch an
ad, nor does It feem to have been fo confidered by the
legiflature.
From the circumftances under which the ah for
eftablifhing the land office was paffed, as well as from
the expreffions of that ad, it is apparenti-that the entry
was intended tb give complete notice to other purchafers
that the land located was already appropriated. The
mode of giving this notice it was certainly proper to pre.
fcribe. By doing fo, the numerous doubts and queftions
concerning the fufficiency of notice, which would inevit.
ably arife from leaving that important fad to the difcretion of individuals, in the firft inflance, and then to the
difcretion of courts to be exercifed many years after all the
lands hould be located, would be in a confiderable degree obviated.
It was doubtlefs an important objed to obviate them.
The regulations therefore refpe&ing entries are all calculated to make them as notorious as poffible.--Not fo
of furveys.
The entries and furveys are to be kept in feparate books.
Why fo if a furvey amounted to an entry?
The entry muft be dated when made by the locator;
but the time of recordinig a furvey may appear or not at
the difcretion of the furveyor, and a fubfequent furvey
may be recorded before one of prior date.
There are to be no blanks in the book of entries, andthis regulation is well calculated for the prevehtion of

1100

WILSON
.
MASON.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

frauds in the origin of titles.
book of furveys.

It does not apply to the

The book of entries is open to the infpeaion of every
perfori. The book of furveys cannot be looked into but
at tbe diftietion of the furveyor.
If a prior entry be alleged the perfon affeled thereby 'has a right to demand a copy thereof -"but no copy of
a furvey can be given to any other than the proprietor
until twelve months after it fhall have been made.
From the whole aat a legiflative intention to make an
entry, and 'anentry only, the foundation of title to any
particular tra& of land is ftrongly to be inferred, and if
even an equivalent af could be received, a furvey does not
appear to be fuch an a&. Inthis particular cafe it is true
that complete notice was obtained. by it, but titles muff
reft on'general principles, and in the general, a furvey
would not, without fomething more than the law requires,
be notice. The law, therefore, can not contemplate a
furvey as of equal operation with an entry.
A queftion has been made at the bar, whether a caveat
is in the nature of an equitable aCkion, and on' the fuppofition that it is of that nature, the counfel for the defend-.
ant in error 'has infifted that Wilfon, having exprefs
notice of Mafon's furvey, was unable to acquire.title to
the land 'appropriated by that furvey.
'This would be true if the furvey gave to Mafon any
title either in law or equity. But if a furvey without an
entry was no appropriation-if it gave no tile-then
notice of the furvey could'not create a title.
The do~trine of notice is well eftablifhed..' He who
acquires a legal title,- having notice of the prior equity
of another,, becomes a truftee for that other to the cxtent of his equity. But if he has no equity, then there
is nothing for which the purchafer-of the legal eftate can
be a truftee.
A point in the cafe ftill remains wh;ch appears more
doubtful, and concerning which very confiderable difficulties have been felt.

DECEMBER, iSol.

lo,

Although Maton's furvey may give him no title, it is
queftioned 'whether Wilfon can maintain a caveat againft

WILsoN,
v.

it

MASON.

The caveat is a remedy given to prevent a patent from
iffuing in certain cafes where the dire&ions of the law
have been violated to the injury of the commonwealth,
or where fome other perfon hath a better right. The cafe
before the court is that of a better right. The terms in
which this remedy is accorded to the perfon who would
avail himfelf of it for the purpofe of afferting his own
title are, "tor if any perfon (hall obtain a furvey of lands
,, to wh-ch another hath by law a better right, the perfon
" having fuch better right knay in like manner enter a ca" veat", &c.
Confiderable doubts Were entertained whether the word
" hath," in the defcription of the charader by whom a

caveat might be maintained, did not abfolutely require
that the better right ihould exift at the time the furvey
Thould be obtained. This conifru&ion, to which fome of
the court were at firft greatly inclined, would have involved c0nfiderable inconvenience, and would have defeated
what is deemed the effential obje& for Which the remedy
Was given.
It has'bqen already ftated to be the opinion of the court,
that a .furvey not founded on an entry is a void ad and
conftitutes no title whatever. Confequcntly the land (o
furveyed remains vacant and liable to be appropriated
by ary perfon holding a land warrant. It is difficult to
conceive that a remedy defigned to enable an individual
who has made his entry in conformity with the law, to
prevent .another from 6btaining a grant for the land he
has entered, ihould be withheld from any perfon whofe
entry entitles him to the land he has located. It is not
lefs difficult to impute to the legiflature an intention to
protea a furvey to which the law denies all power of appropriating the land it comprehends, or an intention
of carrying fuch furvey into grant, while another has legally appropriated to himfelf the land thus to be granted.
It would be difficult toftate a cafe to, which the principle,
that a remedy flould befo extended as to meet the mifchief,
would apply ,mo.e forcibly than to this. If however the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON

Iv.
MAsON.

terms of the law had been explicit, thofe terms muft have
controlled the fubje&. But the expreffion of the a& is not
if any perfon fhall obtain a furvey to which another at the
fuch furvey may be obtained fhall have by law a better right, the perfon having fuch better right may enter a
caveat, &c. The words of the law are not thus exprefs.
They are, if any perfon fhall obtain a furvey of land to
which another hath by law a better right. The word hath
in its molt frid and rigid fenfe would refer neither to the
time of making the furvey, nor or of entering the caveat,
but to the )refent moment when the word is ufed, and
would require that the better right fhould exift at the
time of the paffage of the a&. Fhis conRifrudion would
be univerfally rejeded as abfurd, and all would expedl the
court to underftand the words more liberally, and to expound them fo as to give fome effe& to the legiflative will.
Some latitude of conftrudion then muff be ufed, fome
words additional to thofe ufed by the legiflature muff be
underflood, and this being apparent, the court perceive
no fufficient motive for extending the remedy to rights
exifting when the furvey fhall be made, and denying it
to thofe which are equally valid and which exift when
the caveat may be entered.

Stime

The fzaveat entered by Wilfon is therefore maintainable
under the land law of Virginia, fince his title had accrued when it was entered.
The court is of opinion that thd diftri&k court of Kentucky has erred in deciding that the defendant in error hath
the better right, and that their judgment ought to be reverfed and annulled. In purfuance of this opinion I am
direded to deliver the following judgment.
.udgment of the court.
" Whereuponit is confideredbythe court that theplainc tiff Wilfon hath by law the better right to the land in
"controverfy, and that the judgment of the court of the
" United States for the diftria of Kentucky be reverfed
" and annulled; and that the regifter of the land office in
"Kentucky do iffue a grant to the faid Wilfon upon his.
" furvey of 30,000 acres of land regiffered in the faid
"office, according to the metes and bounds thereof) and

DECEMBER,

x8or.

i- that the faid plaintiff do alfo recover his cofts expended
" in this court and in the faid diftri& court, all which
" is ordered to be certified to the faid diftridl court, and
" the faid regifter of the land office accordingly."

WILSow

V.
MASON.

In the cafe of Mafon v. Wi/fon,.the judgment of the court
was, "that the defendant Wilfon hath by law the better
" right to the land in controverfy, and that the judgment
" of the court of the United States for the diflfi& of
" Kentucky be reverfed and annullcd ; and that the faid
" caveat be difiniffed, and that the defendant Wilfon reco" ver his cofis, &c."

UNITED STATES v. SCHOONER PEGGY.

F RROR

to the circuit court for the diftri& of U.

Conneaicut, on a queftion of prize.

STATs,

"

IV.
SCHOONtR

The fa&s found and ftated by judge Law, the diflri&

judge, were as follow :

PEG,"

.

A final condemnation in an in-

That the ihip Trumbull, duly commiffioned by the ferior court of
" Prefident of the United States, with inftru&ions to take admiralty,
" any armed French veffel or veflls failing under autho- where a right
c rity, or pretence of authority from the French republic, oanpdea exies
" which fhall be found within the jurifdidional limits of claimed, is not
" the United States, or elfewhere on the highftas, &c. as fet a dvfiti, con" forth in faid inftru&ions ; and faid fhip didp on the 24t1within
240h detnation
the
dayof April laft (April 8
Boo) capture the fthooner Peg- meaning of the
" gy, after running hoer a,,4 ore a few miles to the wefiward 4 th article of
of theconventin
and territory
of of Port au Prince, within the dominions
- .
• .with
France,
cGeneral 7Tou7aint, and has brought her into port as fet figned Sept. 3o,
" forth in the libel, and it further appears that all the fa6ls, 18oo.
" contained in the claim, are truet; whereupon this court The court is as
much
bound asto
the executive
As to the neceflity of giving notice in the form prefcribed by law, vide take notice of a
.Evans'. E//ay on Sill,,, 61 68. 69" 70. 71 -and 2 II .B1. 6o 9. Nicoelfu treaty, and will
Sold hit.
revcrce the orit The material faa. flated in the claim arc, that the fchooner was the ginal decree of
iroprty of citizens of the French republic ; that he was permitted
by (althoughitwav
condemnation
• TouIFfait

