FEBRUARY, 1803.

HEPBURN AND DUNDAS
V.V

COLIN AULD.

THIS was an a&ion of debt brought by Hepburn and Dundas againft Colin Auld in the circuit court of
the dillric of Columbia, for the penalty of an agreement
dated 2 7 th September 1799, betwe cn the plaintiffs, merchants of Alexandria, and the defendant, as agent for
John Dunlop and co. merchants in Glafgotv.
The agreement recites that whereas the plaintiffs have
had extenfive dealings with Dunlop and co. in the courfe
of which the former appear to have fallen in debt to the
latter, by the accounts by them exhibited, fome articles
ofwhich accounis having been objeded to by the plaintiffs, they had agreed with the faid agent to fubmit all
matters in difpute to arbitration. And whereas the plaittiffs, by an article of agreement between them and a cer.
tain William Graham, dated i 2th March 1796, did covenant with him, (for the confideration of t 8ooo dollars
to be by him paid to them at certain times in the faid article expreffed) to convey to him the faid Graham his heirs
and affigns 6ooo acres of land on the Ohio; but the faid
Graham failing to make the firft payment upon the day
flipulated, the plaintiffs confidered the faid contra&q as
thereby annulled, and in confequence thereof brought an
eje&ment to recover polkffion of the land, which they
had permitted Graham to occupy, which ejeament had
been abated by his death, and another ejeament had been
or was about to be commenced.
The indenture then witneffeth, that each party covenanted to furnifli their accounts to the arbitrators tb as to
enable them to make their award by the ift day of January then next, being the time flipulated by the arbitration bonds. That Auld covenanted that he, or ihe agent
of Dunlop and co. would, on the 2d day of January
then next, accept aid take, of the plaintiffs, the amount
Sz

1m2s
Au i, o.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Titpran & which fhould be awarded to Dunlop and co. in b-lis e
•DUDAS
exchange, -of a certain defcription, or in anymoney which
q;might by law be a legal tender; and onj]wh pa , aent being
AULD.
made in either way, give the plaintiffs afull receipt and
-

difebarge of all claims and demands of Dunlop and co. aga'inf1
them. That the plaint s covenanted, that in cafe they

did not, on the 2d of January then next, pay to the defendant, 'or the then agent of Dunlop and co. the amount
of the award, in bills or money, they would, on that day,
affign and transfer to the defendant, or the then agent of
Dunlop and co, in thefullel manner, the aforefaid contra&
entered into -by them with. Graham for the fale. of the
land, and all and every intereft, right and claim, of what-ever kind, of the plaintiffs, arifing out of and from the
faid contraft;; with full power to. proceed and act thereupon and therein as the defendant or the then agent of
Dunldp and.co. fhould think proper; ind that they would
'fo.r that purpofe give him a fall and ample power of attorney irrevocable to purfue in their names, if neceffary,
all legal ways and means, either to recover the :poffeffion
-ofthe land, or to enforce payment of .he i Booo dollars
and intereit, whichever- of the meafures he might be in-,clined .to purfue; and that in cafe they fhould fo affign
the faid contra-t, they would not thereafter in any manner interfere with the meafures he might chufe to purfue,
either for,the recovery of the lands, or to enforce the pay.ment of the purchafe money. And that whenever the
ejeCtment fhould be judicially determined, or fettted b.y
compromife, they would convey the lands to the perfon
who by fuch determination or compromife, fhould be acknowledged, to be entitled to them. And that in cafe the
faid purchafe money, which, with ifitereft to the faid 2d
day of January, would amount to 21,'1 12 dollars, fhould
not prove fufficient to fatisfy the award, they would on
that day pay the balance to the defendant or the then
agent of Dunlop and co..
And the defendant covenanted:that in cafe it thould
•iot be convenient for the plaintiffs.to pay the amount of
the-award in'bills, or money, on the 2d day of January,
lie would accept and take an affignment of the faid Graham's contraft, at 21, Yizdollars, towards the difcharge
of .the faid award; and that in cafe itjflbould exceed the amount
'f the award, he would, at the time of, making the fai&

FEBRUARY, 1803.

313

sflignment, pay them the excefs. For the faithful perfor- HEPBtrN &
manee of thefe articles, the parties bound themfelves to DUNDA,
-V.
each other in the penal fum of 45,000 dllars. The fum
AULD.
of 21,112 dollars eyiceeded the amount of the award, by
the fum of C494. 6. 7. Virginia currency. For the
non-payment of this exceft, the prefent adion was brought
by the plaintiffs, after having tendered an aflignmer)t of
Graham's contra6 and a power of attorney, which was
iefufed by the defendant. There were four iffues infaa,
but to the 5 th plea there was a general demurrer and
joinder. Judgment below being in favor of the defendant upon this demurrer, the iffues -in fad were not tried,
and the plaintiffs fued out the prefent writ of error.
The fifth plea was as follows, " and the faid defendant
by virtue of the a&, &c. and by leave of the court, for
further plea, protefling that the faid deed of affignment
tc of the contra& aforefaid, withthe faid William Graham,
•" f9 as aforefaid, pretended to have been executed, fealed
" and tendered by the plaintiffs on the 2d day of January
"in the year i8oo, was not a good, lawful and fullicient
affignment thereof, according to the true intent and
meaning of the faid articles of agreement between the
plaintiffs and defendant, hei the defendant, faith, that
"the faid deed of affignment .as not tendered to him un6 conditionally, but upon the condition, that the faid John"
" Dunlop and company fhouldfirf fign, feal and deliver,
" by the faid Colin Auld their attorney, on the fame day,
c unto the plaintiffs, a releafe and acquittance of all the
"claims and deitands of the faid John Dunlop and company, againft the faid plaintiffs ; and the faid defendant,
" then and there, refufed to comply with the faid con" dition, and the faid plaintiffs, then and there, refufed
" to'deliver the aforefaid deed of affignmnent to the faid
" defendant, unlefs he complied with the condition aforeccfaid ; and this, he is ready to verify ; wherefore he prays
"judgment, whether the plaintiffs, their adion aforeflaid againft him, ought to have and maintain, &c."
"
".

Swann, for plaintiffs in error.
It will be perceived by the agreement, that the plaintiffshad' the
,c of three modes of paying the awafd.
*h

SUPREME COURT Xr. S.
Vr svt, & i. y bills of exchange, 2. By cafh, and 3. By an aflign*
DutwAs ment of Graham's co~tra&.
'V.

AULn.

Y

It is true, that the words are,. that, the defendant will
take the aflignment "' toward" the difcharge of the award.
But the reafon of ufing the word "towards" is plainly, be.
caufe the amount of the award not being then known, it
;emained an uncertainty, whether the 21,1 12 dollars of
Graham's purchafe money would be fufficient in amount
to meet and fatisfy the award. The word towards therefore was not ufed to exclude the idea that the affignment
thould be a comple e difcharge of the award, in cafe the
award did not exceed the purchafe money; but only to
prevent Auld from being compelled to accept the affignment mfiul difeharge of the award, if the purchafe money
lbould fall fhort of the fum awarded.
ift. We contend, that the affignment was a good and
fufficient affignment within,the meaning and intention of
the agreement. '
zd. That the plaintiffs had a right to a releafe of alR
demands upon tender of the aflignment.
3 d. That the plaintifis had a right to make fuch releafe
t condition of their tender.

i ft. It is. no objeaion to the affignment that it, expreffes the confideration to be a releafe of all demands from
Dunlop and co. for if the plaintiffs had a right to fuch a
releafe, it was proper to fQate it as part of the confideration.
.d. The preamble of the affignment ftates the defendant
to be agent of Dunlop and Co. and the habendum is to the
faid C6in Auld, which refers to the prernifes where he is
Ityled agent; fo that it is, in fa&, as it ought to be, to
Colin Auld agent of Dunlop and co. '

2d. As to the right of the plaintiffs to infift upon areleafe of all demands.
7R. It is due by the terms of the Contra&.
2d. If not due by the terms of the contraQ, yet it watt
due of comrrwn right.

FEBRUARY, i SoS..

325
HFrFBVRN

ift. It is due by the contra&.

DUNDAO

Every contra& ought to have a reafonable conftruaion

according to the intention of the parties.

Such a releafe

is exprefsly agreed to be given in cafe of payment by bills
or cafli. A payment by the affignment was as complete
a difcharge of the award, as payment in either of the
other modes. The difcharge of the amount of the award,
and not theparticular mode of difcharge, was to be the confideration of the releafe ; and having ftipulatcd to give it
in the one cafe, it ought to be prefumed to be the intention of the parties, that it fhould be given in the other,
unlefs there can be fhewn fome difference in the confideration, or fome. reafon operating upon the mind of the defendant which might have induced the omiflion of an exprefs agreement to that effet. By agreeing to give it in
cafe of payment by carl or bills, he allows that the plain.
tiffs have a right to fuch a releafe upo.n difcharge of the
award. The fubmiffion was of all demands; a difcharge
of the award then was a difeharge of all demands; an&
therefore,
2dly. Such a releafe was due of common right. A man
has a right to demand. evidence of his. payment, and of
the claims which are thereby fatisfied. It is true he may
call witneffes, but they may die. If a man pay money
upon a fpecialty, he has a right to written evidence of the
payment.

Shep. Touch. 348-

3 d. The plaintiffs had'a right to make the releafe a!
condition of the tender. All things were to be done on
the fame day. They were concurrent conditions, to be
performed at the fame time. If one party is ready and
willing and offers to perform, and the other will not, the
firft is difcharged from the performance of his part -and"

may maintain an aftion againft the other. 4. Term Rep.
761. Goodiy/on v. Nunn. Doug. 684. :Jones v. Barkey.

Such a releafe could not operate to the injury of the
defendant, or of Dunlop and co. It would not have releafed any right accruing under the agreement; as was
decided in the cafe of Thorpe v. Thorpe, lord Raymond 235.

,The cevenants of the plaintiffs refpeding the lands and
idie eje6tmcnt are all future and contingent, and therefore

Aur.o.

326

SUPREME COURT U. S.

flawBtrxN & could not have been releafed by a releafe of all demand
DvNDAs. Nor was the penalty a prefent duty. It could only be in
IV.
curred by a future breach, and therefore is not like a bond to
AULD.
pa) a fmaller furn at a future day. Shep. Touch. 339, 340.
Buller. 16o. 2. Show. 90. 'Carthage v. Manby. Efp. X. P.
'~.'
307. Cro. jfac. 170. Hancock v. Field. Cro. jac. 623. Por-,
tor v Philips. Cro. Eliz. g8o. Hoe p. Marhall. S Ce,
7o. (b.) Hoe's cafe.
E. 7. Lee, contra.
The affignment, in this cafe tendered, was not good,
becaufe it tated part of the confideration to be a releafe
of all demands, which the defendant was not bound to
give; and if he had accepted of the affignment in that
form, it would have been an acknowledgment that he waS
bound to give it.
Whether Auld might with fafety have given fuch a relcafe,, is not now the queftion; he has not contraded to
give it, and it is not for us to enquire why he did not.
He was 'unfkilled in the law, and he might have fuppofed
that in fome way or other, it would embarrafs the claims
of Dunlop and co. againft the plaintiffs for a future performance of their covenants refpe&ing the land.
2d. The afignment is made to the ufe of Colin Auld,
'and not to the ufe of Dunlop and co. The rents and profits are to be received to his ufe, and not to that of his
onrftituents.' In the operative parts of the affignment he
is ndt named as agent.
3 d. The power of attorney is infufficient, becaufe it
does not givefull power to adt therein, as the defendant
lhould think proper, and does not, authorize him to compromife the eje6lment.

But the principal quefcion is, whether the defendant
wds bound to give a releafe of all demands.
The plaintiffs only tendered the papers, but did not deliver them, fo that the defendant could not fee whether
they were corred. They were to do the firft a6t. They
wetx firft to make and deliver the affignment before they

FEBRITART,

803.

were entitled to the balance. The words of the agreement H sr
nu
&
DUN DAS
plainly fhow this.
The agreement does not require him to give fuch a receipt in the cafe of payment by the affignment of Graham's
contraCt. It would certainly have been as eafy to have
covenanted to give fuch a releafe in that cafe, as in the
event of payment by bills or cafh. rhe not doing fo, in
the former cafe, and the exprefs agreement for it in the
latter cafes, creates the ftrongeft prefumption that it was
not intended by the parties to be given in the former cafe ;
and the intention of the parties conititutes the agreement.
Admitting that by common right, they were entitled td
a receipt, it could only be a receipt for the affignment
itfelf.
There was at leaft a doubt whether fuch a releafe as was
demanded 'vould not have difeharged the penalty annexed
-to the contralt, or at leaft the covenants refpefing the
land.
A releafe -of all demands is certainly a releafe of all
prefent duties, and it is faid in Altham': cafe, 8. Cc. I S4.
(a.) that a releafe of all demands is a releafe of'all caitjfs
of demand.
As the plaintiffs have demurred to our plea, we have a
right .to look into their declaration ; to which, there are
two objeffions.
iIt. That it contains no profert of the award which is
the foundation of their affion ; and
2d.- That it does not aver the difference between the
amount of the award, and the purchafe money due upon
the contra t tendered. The declaration only ftates, that
.the arbitrators awarded the fum of t-4379. 9. o. ,. fterling, to, be due from the plaintiffs to Dunlop and co. and
that the plaintiffs having eleted to affign Graham's contra& in difeharge of the award, tendered an affignment
thereof, together with a power of attorney, according to
the true intent and meaning of the agreement, in confe.quence 'whereofthe plaintiffs then and there became entitled

'N
AULD.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
-I,av3&W & to have and receive of the faid defendant, the fum of
[' 494. 6. 7- Virginia currency, which faid fum, the defen.DuNDAS
dant, although required, had not paid, whereby adion ac7-.
AULD.
crued to the plaintiffs to have 45,ooo dollars, the penalty
of the articles of agreement.
"
C. Lee, on the fame fide.
The p!-otfando in the plea faves all objedions to the ftd
ficiency of the affignment ; and we conceive the objeclions, which have been flated, are ftzbftantial.

But the principal queftion is, whether any releafe at all
could be demanded. The contra& does not, in any of the
cafes of payment of the award, require a re/cafe ; which is
a technical word, and means an inftrument unider feat.
But we do not infift upon this diftinion, as the law is
full in our favor 6pon the other points. We might fafely admit, that the defendant was bound to give a receipt
for the alignment; but even that is not due under the contrad, nor of common right. However, fuch a receipt war
not demanded, and therefore it is unneceffary to enquire)
whether the defendant was, or was not bound to give it.
The releafe required would have difcharged the penalty
of this agreement. Viner. Tit. Relcafe (P.) pl. 18.
It is not contended, that a releafe contained in an inArument will releafe demands growing out of that inftrument ; this was the cafe of Thorpe and Thorpe. Hoe's cafe
does not apply to the prefent ; that was a cafe of mere
pojibility of a demand. The covenant of the plaintiffs, not
to interfere with the ejedlment, was a prefent duty.
This is a cafe of confltrution only, and the only queftion
is, what was the intention of the parties. If the deed of
affignment was not a proper one, or the releafe demanded
was fuch an one as the defendant was not bound to give,
the plea is good, and the judgment mutt be affirmed.
Mafon in reply.
All the inftruments are to be taken together, 2, At .
Crop v. Norton. Through the whole it appears that what

FEBRUARY,. 1803.

329

the plaintiffs are bound to do, the defendant was bound
to receive. The payment by the affignment was not more
for the benefit of the plaintiffs than of the defendant.
If they did not on the 2d' of January pay in bills, or
caflh, they were abfolutely bound to affign Graham's contrad ; and the defendant might then refufe the bills, or
cafri, and infift on the affignment ; and a court of chancery would have compelled a fpecific affignment, if they
had refufed. The difcharge of the award by the affignment was the fame thing as the difcharge by bills of exchange or cafh. It would have been a complete difcharge
of the award, and there is no reafon why he fhould not
give a releafe as well in the one cafe as the other.
It is alleged that the releafe would have difcharged
the other covenants, and the penalty of the agreement,
But the" cafe cited from Viner' flews that the covenants
would not have been difcharged by the releafe, nor would
it have difcharged the penalty. The covenant not to interfere was not a prefent duty. The cove:nant of the plaintiffs is, that after the affignment, they would not interfere.
But a releafe of all demands does not difcharge a covenant before it is broken ; until that time it is no demand.
The fame obfervation applies to the penalty ; it is not a
prefent duty until a breach of the covenant. A bond
in the penalty.of £200, to pay iQoo at a future day, is
a prefent duty. But in a bill penal, the penalty is not a
duty till after the day appointed for the payment of the
fmaller fum. The difference in declaring upon the two
inftruments flews their different nature. On a bond you
only declare that he bound himfelf in the penalty ; and
you take no notice of the condition. But on a bill penal
you declare that the defendant having failed to pay the
fmaller fum, an afion has accrued to recover the penalty. To fupport thefe pofitions he cited Efp. N. P. 307.
Buller 66. Cro. Jac. 170. Hancock v. Field, Cro. 7ac,
3oo. Tyman v. Bridges. Cro. .7ac.623. Porter v.Philips,
i lord Raym. 662. Thorpe. v. Thorpe, and Cro. Eliz. 579,
Hoe v. Marjhall.

The plaintiffs, having oflered to perform their part of
the agreement, are intitlecFt.±o thei" aaion. Efp. ., P.

Ta2

HEPBURN &
DUNDAS

IV.
AULD.

330

& 284. Doug. 684. J7one, v. Barkley. 4. Zerm rep. 76r.

XlizptuN

DuNDAs
AULD.

"v'

SUPREME COURT U- S.

1

Goodijon v. Nunn.
As to the protelando, it is only an eftoppel, or, as lord
Coke fays, it is an excluflon of a conclufon. It does not
put in iffue the validity of the affignment. But if it did,
the objeffions are not well grounded. Whether the releafe ought to have been mentioned as part of 'the confideration depends upon the queftion whether the defendant was bound to give fuch. a releafe ; and the objection, that the affignment is made to Colin Auld, and not
to Colin Auld as agent of Dunlop and co. is not grounded
in fact: For in the preamble of the affignment he is
named as agentfo" Dunlop and co. and throughout the refidue of the inftrument he is called -thefaidColin Auld,
which refers back to the premifes to fhow in what capacity ht" was to take the affignment.
in the premifes a complete intereft is conveyed to Auld
as attorney in fa& of Dunlop and co. and the hahendum
can not, in this cafe, control the premifes. 2. B1. Com.,
298.

k ebruary 28th. The Chief Juflice, after ftating the cafe,
'delivered the opinion of the court.
To entitle themfelves to the money for which this.fuit
was infiituted, it is incumbent on the plaintiffs to fhew
that they have performed the very a&, on the performance of which the money became payable ; or that they
are excufed by the condu& of the defendant for its nonThe a& itfelf has not been performed :
performance.
but a tender at a refufal is equal to a performance ; and
it is contended hat there has been fuch a tender and refufal in this cafe
The pleadings /how that the tender was not unconditional ; but the plaintiffs infift that the condition, annexed
to the tender, was fuch as they had a right to annex to
it, and on their correanefs in this opinion, depends the
judgment now to be rendered.
The plea does not conteft the fufficiency of the deed
of affigument and power of attorney which were tender-

FEBRUARY, 1803.

33£

rd ; and confequently no queftion concerning their fuffi- HsPsURN &
ciency can arife in the prefent cafe.

DUNDAS
'V.

The only caufe relied on, as doing away the operation
of the tender, is that it was made on condition that a releafe of all the claims and demands of the faid Jbhn
Dunlop and co. on the faid Hepburn and Dundas, fhould
firl be fig.ned, fealed and delivered to them by Colin
Auld.
The only queftion in the cafe is, whether Hepburn
and Dundas had a right to infift on this previous condition ; and it is admitted that this queftion depends entirely
on the agreement of the 2 7 th of September 1799.
That an acquittance fhould b6 figned, fealed and delivered before the a& itfelf was performed, which entitled
the party to fuch acquittance, is a mode of proceeding
very unufual, and which certainly could only be rendered
indifpenfible by exprefs flipulation.
There is in this cafe no fuch exprefs ftipulation. If
the pay ment had been'made in bills or money, the releafe
of all the claims and demands of John Dunlop and co.
againft them was to have been given, not previous thereto,
but upon receiving fuck payment.

If then, as has been

argued, the deed of affignment and power of attorney are
fubftituted for the payment in money or in bills, and to
be made on the fame conditions on which payment, in
either of thofe articles, was to have been made, yet there
could exift no right to demand a delivery of the receipt
4efore the payment.
If we infpea thofe covenants which relate to the deed
of affignment of Graham's contra4, we find no ftipulation refpefing a releafe of any fort The agreement is
that he will receive the faid deed of affignment at 21,1 12
dollars, towards the difcharge of' the- award.' but he does
not engage to give any releafe whatever.
It is contended that upon the general principles of juf-.
tice and of law, Hepburn and Dundas had a-right to the
evidence of the payment they had made without expreffly contrading for fuch. evidence ; and this is true, fo. far

AULD.

332

SUPREME COURT U. S,

WEPBUitN & as to enititle them to a receipt for the deed and power deDuNDAS

AULD.

livered ; but neither the general principles of juftice, nor
of law, give Hepburn and Dundas a right to infift upgn
any releafe as a previous condition.
The cafe has been argued at bar, as if the condition
of the tender of the deed of affigniment and power of
attorney had been a releafe of all claims and demands, to
be given at one and the fame time with the delivery of
fich deed and power, but this is not the cafe as prefented
in the pleadings. According to the plea, Hepburn and
Dundas required the delivery of the releafe as a condition
precedent to their livery of the deed of affignment.
This demand feems not to have been countenanced by
the contra& ; and of confequence the tender was not
fuch as it was incumbent on Hepburn and Dundas to have
made, in order to entitle themfelves to the money for which
they have brought this fuit.
Judgment affirmed with cofts.
MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY
oF ALEXANDRIA,
V.

INSURANCE

co. or

JAMES YOUNG.

ALEX.
'v.

You Nr..
.4funlofft

will
not 1,. upon a

t

poliy of infur-Of
ance under the the

THis was an alion brought in the circuit court,
the diftrit of Columbia, by James Young, againft

Marine Infurance Company of Alexandria, upon a policy
corporate feal, of infurance on the brigantine Liberty at and from Anacalunlefs ane
confidera ew beffa in Jamaica to a port in the United States. The dee claration ifated, that " James Young complained of the
avetrd
ue...
whether "c Marine Infurance Company of Alexandria in cuflody, &c.
an
t&gregate 19of a plea, for that whereas," &c. fetting forth the poc~rporati-)n can
mak(e an ,r- licy in the ufual form. " In witnefs whereof the prefident
afrumpfit, " and diretors of the faid Marine Iifurance Company of
jrfs

