DECEMBER,

x8or.

i- that the faid plaintiff do alfo recover his cofts expended
" in this court and in the faid diftri& court, all which
" is ordered to be certified to the faid diftridl court, and
" the faid regifter of the land office accordingly."

WILSow

V.
MASON.

In the cafe of Mafon v. Wi/fon,.the judgment of the court
was, "that the defendant Wilfon hath by law the better
" right to the land in controverfy, and that the judgment
" of the court of the United States for the diflfi& of
" Kentucky be reverfed and annullcd ; and that the faid
" caveat be difiniffed, and that the defendant Wilfon reco" ver his cofis, &c."

UNITED STATES v. SCHOONER PEGGY.

F RROR

to the circuit court for the diftri& of U.

Conneaicut, on a queftion of prize.

STATs,

"

IV.
SCHOONtR

The fa&s found and ftated by judge Law, the diflri&

judge, were as follow :

PEG,"

.

A final condemnation in an in-

That the ihip Trumbull, duly commiffioned by the ferior court of
" Prefident of the United States, with inftru&ions to take admiralty,
" any armed French veffel or veflls failing under autho- where a right
c rity, or pretence of authority from the French republic, oanpdea exies
" which fhall be found within the jurifdidional limits of claimed, is not
" the United States, or elfewhere on the highftas, &c. as fet a dvfiti, con" forth in faid inftru&ions ; and faid fhip didp on the 24t1within
240h detnation
the
dayof April laft (April 8
Boo) capture the fthooner Peg- meaning of the
" gy, after running hoer a,,4 ore a few miles to the wefiward 4 th article of
of theconventin
and territory
of of Port au Prince, within the dominions
- .
• .with
France,
cGeneral 7Tou7aint, and has brought her into port as fet figned Sept. 3o,
" forth in the libel, and it further appears that all the fa6ls, 18oo.
" contained in the claim, are truet; whereupon this court The court is as
much
bound asto
the executive
As to the neceflity of giving notice in the form prefcribed by law, vide take notice of a
.Evans'. E//ay on Sill,,, 61 68. 69" 70. 71 -and 2 II .B1. 6o 9. Nicoelfu treaty, and will
Sold hit.
revcrce the orit The material faa. flated in the claim arc, that the fchooner was the ginal decree of
iroprty of citizens of the French republic ; that he was permitted
by (althoughitwav
condemnation
• TouIFfait

SUPREME COURT U. S.
c

care of opinion that as it appears that the faid ichooner
" was folely upon a trading voyage and failed under the

U. STATES,

Iv.
ScHOONP

"permiffion of Touffainft.with difpatches for the French
government, under a convoy furnifhed by Touffaint,
" with dired ions to touch at Leogane for fupplies, and
corred when,
that the arms fhe had on board muft be prefumed to be
made)
and decree reforation
only for felf defence; neither does it appear/he had ever
PEGoY.
'v-.

,

of the proper- " made, or attempted to make, any depredations, and that
ty Under the
"I fhe was'not fuch an armed veffel as was meant and intreaty made
" tended by the laws of the United States ihould be fubfibre the origi-

"jea to capture and condemnation ;, and that the fitua-

nal condemna-

tion.

tion fhe was in, at the time of capture, being aground
,, wvthin the territory and jurtliim of Toufaint, fhe was
? " not on the high feas, fo as to be intended to be within
"the inflru&ions given to the commanders of American
"

Quere. As. to
the extent of the

"termhgh fe

"

"

fhips of war : Therefore, adjudge faid fchooner is not
a lawful prize, and decree that faid fchooner with her
cargo be reflored to claimant."

.From this decree the attorney for the United States, in
behalf of the United States and the commander, officers
and crew of the Trumbull, appealed to the circuit court,'in
which Judge Cufhing fat alone, as the diftri& judge declined fitting in the caufe, on account of the intereft of
his fon who was one of the officers on board the Trumbull, at the time of capture, and who, if the fchooner
thould be condemned, would be entitled to a fhare. of the
prize money.
The circuit court on the appeal found the- following
fa&s, and gave the following opinion and decree:
Touffaint to receive on board the cargo which was on board at the time
of capture; that fhe had difpatches from Touffaint to France ; that ihe
failed by his authority on the 2 3 d of April, for France, navigated by zo
men, including Buiffon the claimant, and Qilli.r the Lommander, and
having on board 4 fmall 3 pound carriage gene, folely for defence againft
piratical affaultsi and being under convol of a tender, furnifiwd by
Touffaint. That on the 23d April,
e wa run afhore, a few miles to
the vweftward of Port ,'., Prince, -within thedominion, jurifdiflion,and territory of geweral Toufaint, fo that fi[e wa faji and tight aground; at which
time, and in which;fituation, the boats and crew of the Trmnbull attacked and took poffefllon of her, and got her off. That Touffaint then
was, and ftill is, on terms of amity, commerce and friendfhip with the

United States duly entered into and ratified by treaty That the'fchooner
was on a lawful voyage for the fole purpofe of trade; and not commiffioned, or in a condition to annoy or injure the trade or commerce of
the United States.

DECEMBER, i8oi.
" That David Jewitt, commander of the faid public U. STAT
IV.
veffel, called the Trumbull, being duly commifSCHOONEX
United
the
of
Prefident
the
by
" fioned, and inftru&ed
"Statts, as fet forth in the faid libel, did' on or about the P GGY.
"23 d of April laft, capture the faid fchooner Peggy, af"ter rtinning her aground about piftol fhot from the fhore,
is a few miles to the weftward of Port au Prince, called
" alfo Port Republican', on the coaft of the ifland of Saint
" Domingo, and afterwards bring her into port, as fet
" forth in the libel, That at the time of the capture of
" the faid fchooner there were ten perfons aboard her.
" That fhe was then armed with four carriage guns, be", ing four pounders, with four fwivel guns, fix muf6 kets, four piftols, four cutlaffes, two axes, fome board" ing hatchets, tommahawks, and handcuffs. That fhe
C was a trading French veffel of about a hundred tons,
" then laden with coffee, fugar, and other merchandize..
" That fhe had come from Bourdeaux to Port au Prince,
" where the claimant had taken in faid cargo, and from
" whence he failed on or about the faid 23 d day of Aprir
"cwith faid fchooner and cargo, having difpatches from
"general Touffaint for the French government. Fhat
"the faid.Buiffon failed from Port au Prince as aforefaid
"with the permiffion and diredion of general Touffaint
c to proceed to Bourdeaux ; that faid fchooner fo failed
"from Port au Prince under convoy of an armed veftel
"by order of faid Touffaint without a paflport from Mr.
" Stevens, conful "general of -the United States at Saint
"Domingo, but that Buiffon had been prom ifed by Touf"faint's brother that one fhould be obtained and. fent him,
"which, however, was not done; 'that faid fkhooner had
'"'failed from Bourdeaux for Port au Prince with fifteen
" men, befides eight paffengers (according to the roll of
it equipage)armed with fome guns, fwivels and mufkets;
"that faid captain Buiffon was without any commiffion as
" for a veffel of war, and alleges that. he. was armed on" lyfor felf defence. That at the time of faid capture,
"the guns of faid fchooner were loaded with cannifter
"( hot, one of which being fired, the flot fell near- the
", bow of the Trumbull ; but the faid Buiffon declares
" that faid gun was fired only as a fignal to his convoy.
" That the faid captain Buiffon appeared to -be in a dif" pofition, and was prepared with force to refift the boats
'wbich were fent from the Trumbull to board him, a lit-

-IN armed

Q

SUPREME COURT U. S.
U.. 'TATts
qV.
SCHOGNER

" tle previous to the capture, in cafe of their
" it; and that the faid fchooner and cargo
"property.

attempting
are French

P2r,Y.

" Upon thefe fa&s the court is of opinion as follows,
"

viz.

" However compaflion may be moved in favour of
the claimantby fome circumftances ; fuch as that he
w:is charged with difpatches from general Touffaint,
" between whom and the United States there were
f
rome
friendly ar.rangements refpeffing commerce; that
" he was not in a capacity of greatly annoying trade,
" from the fewnefs of his men; and his allegation that
,4he was armed only in defence yet as the court is bound
" by law, which makes no fuch diftinaions; as armed
" French veffeqs are not prott &ed by any treaty or convention; particularly not by the regulations between
9 general 'rouffaint and the American conful ; and as the
ffaid fehooner Peggy. was in a condition capable of an" noying, and even of capturing fingle, unarmed trading
44veniels, unattended with convoy; The court cannot
" avoid being of opinion, that the falls within the de4 feription, and general defign, of the expreffion of the
" law, an armed French veffel.
"

2dly. That fhe was captured on thehigh feas : the. argument taken by. the claimants counfel, from the extent
" of national jurifdiCion on 'ea coafts bordering on
" the country, not applying to this cafe fo as to- ac" quit the faid. fchooner; the fea coaft of Saint Domingo,
" not being neutral ; not made fo by any treaty or con" vention; but to be confid..red as hoftile, upon our prefent plan of laws of defence with refpe& to France
" as much fo as any part of the coat of France, as far as
"regards French armed vefels.
"

" The court is therefore of opinion that the faid
"fehooner Peggy and cargo are lawful prize:
"

It is therefore confidered, decreed and adjudged by

" this court, that the decree of the diftri6& court refpe&" ing the fame, as far as regards their acquittal, be, and

i the fame. is hereby reverfed ; and that the faid fchoon-

DECEMBER, 1So.
" er with her apparel, guns and appurtenances, and the U. STATSe
V.
4, goods and effeas which were found on board of her
" at the time of capture, and brought into port as afore- SCHOONER
Ii faid, be and the fame are hereby condemned as forfeited PErGY.
99 to the ufe of the United States, and of the officers and
4' men of the faid armed veffcl called the Trumbull, one
" half thereof to the.United States, the other half to the
9 officers and men t~o be divided according to law; the
49 laid fchooner Peggy being of iniferior force to the faid
" armed veffcl called the Trumbull."
This fentence and decree were pronounced on the 23 d
day of September, i8oo.
During the prefeut termi, and before the court gave
judgment upon this writ of error, viz. on the 2.1ft of
December, i8o i, the convention with France was finally
ratified by the Prefident; the fourth article of which
convention has ther words:
"jProperty captured, and not yet definitively condemn"(ed, or which may be captured before the exchange of
"'ratifications, (contraband goods deftined to an enemy's
4 port excepted) fhall be mutually reftred." "This.arcc ticle fhall take effea from the date of the fignature of
" the prefent convention.
And if, from the date of the
" faid fignature, any property fhall be condemned con" t[ary to the intent of the laid convention, before the
Sknowledge of this ifipulation fhall be obtained ; the
" property fo condemned fhall without delay be reftored
9 or paid for."
On the 3 oth of September, Y8oo, this convention was
figned by the refpe&ive plenipotentiaries of the two nations at Paris. On the i8th of February, i8oi, it was
ratified by the Prefident of the United States, with the
advice and confent of the Senate, excepting the 2d article, and with a limitation of the duration of the convention to the term of eight years.- On the 3 1ft of July,
i8oi, the ratifications were exchanged at Paris, with a
provifo that the expunging of the 2d article fihould be
confidered as a renunciation of the refpe&ive pretenfions
which were the objef of that article.

lot.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

U. STATES
This provifo being confidcred by the Prefident as reIV
quiring a rinewal of the affent of the Senate, he fent it
SChooNPP to them for their advice. They returned it with a refolve
PEGGY.
that they confidered the convention as fully ratified.
Whereupon,
On the 2ift of December, i8ot, it was promulged
by a proclamation of the Prefident.
The controverfy turned principally upon two points:
i ft. Whether the capture could be confidered as made
on the high feas, 'according to the import of that term as
ufed in the a& of congrefs of July 9 th, 1798, vOl. 4..
p. 163.
2d. Whether, by the fentence of condemnation by the
circuit court on the 2 3d of September, t 8oo, the fchooner
Peggy could be confidcred as definitively condemned, within the meaning of the 4 th article of the convention with
France, figned at Paris on the 3 oth of September, 18oo.
The writ of error was dated on the 2d of O&ober,

i8oo.

Grifwold and BTayard, for the captors.
Jiafon, for the claimant.*
The Chief .Juflice delivered the opinion of the court.
In this cafe the court is of opinion that the fchooner
Peggy is within the provifions of the treaty entered into
'with France and ought to be reftored. This veffel is not
confidered as being definitively condemned. The argument at the bar which contends that becaufe the fentence
of the circuit court is denominated a final fentence, therefore its coodemnation is definitive in the fenfe in which
that term is ufed in the treaty, is not deemed a corred argument. A decree or fentence may be interlocutory or
fial in the court which pronounces it, and receives its
* I regret that not having notes of this cafe, I am unable to report lW
very ingenious arguments of the learned counfel.

DECEMBER, iSoi.
appellation from its determining the power of that par- U. STATE&
v,
ticul;.r court over the fubjea to which it applies, or be.
ing oaly ari intermediate order fubje& to the future con- SCOONS3
trol of the fame court. The laft decree of an inferior PSOG,
court is final in relation to the power of that court, but
not in relation to the property itfelf, unlefs it be acquiefced under. The terms ufed in the treaty feem to apply
to the a&ual condition of the property and to dire& a re$Roration of that which is ftiil in controverfy between
the parties. On any other conftru&ion the word df/nitive would be rendered ufelefs and inoperative. Veffels
are feldom if ever condemned but by a final fentence. An
iriterlocutary order for a fale is riot a condemnation. A
flipulation tben for the reftoration of veffels not yet condemned, would on this conftruffion comprehend as many cafes as a ftipulation for the reftoration of fuch as are
not yet definitively condemned. Every condemnation
is final as to the court which pronounces it, and no
other difference is perceived between a condemnation
and a final condemnation, than that the one terminates
definitively the controverfy between the parties and the
other leaves that controverfy (Lill depending. In this cafe
the fentence of condemnation was appealed from, it
might have been reverfed, and therefore was not fuch a
fentence as in the contemplation of the contrafing parties, on a fair and honeft conftru&ion of the contra&,
*as defignated as a definitive condemnation.
It has been urged that the court can take no notice
of the ftipulation for the reftoration of property not yet
definitively condemned, .that the judges can only enquire.
whether the fentence was erroneous when delivered, and
that if the judgmert was corred it cannot be made otherwife by an) thing fubfequent to its rendition.'
The conftitution of the United States declares a treaty
to be the fupreme law of the land. Of confequence its
obligation on the courts of the United States muff be admitted. It is certainly true that the execution of a contraa betveen nations is to be demanded from, and, in
the general, fuperintended by the executive of each nation,
ond th refore, whatever the decifion of this court may
be relative to the rights of parties litigating before it,
the
claim upon the nation if unfatisfied, may ftill be afferted.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the law of the land, and as fuch
affe&s the rights of parties litigating in court, that treaty
SCHoONER as much binds thofe rights andis as much to be regarded
PG
by the court as an a6t of congrefs; and although reftoration
nmly be an executive, when viewed as a fubftantive, a&
independent of, and unconneded with, 6ther circunmftances, yet to condemn a veffel, the reftoration of which
is direded by a law of the land, would be a dirc&k infraction of that law, and of confequence, improper.

U. STATIS But yet where a treaty is

T/.

It is in the general true that the province of an appel.
late court is only to enquire whether a judgment when
rendered was erroneous or not. But if fubfequent to the
judgient and before the decifion of the appellate court, a
law intervenes and pofitively changes the rule which go-.
verns, the law muff e obeyed, or its obligation denied.
If the law be conflitutional, and of,that no doubt in the
prefcnt cafe has been 'expreflkd, I know of no court
which'can cont~ft its obligation. It is true that in mere
private cafes between individuals, a court will and ought
to firuggle hard againft a conftru&ion which will, by a
retrofpe&ive operation, affe& the rights of parties, but in
great national concerns where individual rights, acquired
by War, are facrificed for national purpofes, the contraa,
making the facrifice, ought always to receive a conftru&ion
conforming to its manifeft import; and if the nation has
given up the vefted rights of its citizens, it is not for the
court, but for the government, to confider whether it be a
cafe proper for compenfation. In fuch a cafe the court
muft decide according to exifling laws, and if it be neceffary to fet afide a judgment, rightful when rendered, but
which cannot be aftiiied but in violation of law, the judgment muff be fet afide.
JACOB RESLER v. JAMES SHEHEE.
RSLER
'V).
.fe

tTiswas

a writ of error upon a judgment or the

After the firfl:
was
term next fol.. circuit. court of the diftri& of Columbia, fitting
lowing an otfice andria, in an acion for a malicious profecution
judgment, in
Virginia, iti,by Shehee v. Refler, originally in the court of

a mater of

at Aiexbrought
huffings
for the town of Alexandria, and transferred by aa of

