SUPREME COURT U. S.
WooD
IV.
OwI"I-s.
1

The queftion now made to the court is, whether the a6k
of the legiflature of Maryland has annexed other requi.
fites to an inftrument of writing conveying lands, without the performance of which, not only the paffing of the
eftate, intended to be conveyed, is arrefted, but the in.
ftrument itfelf, is prevented from becoming the deed of
the perfon who has executed it.
Upon the moft mature confideration of the fubje&,
the opinion of the court is, that the words, ufed in the
a& of Maryland, which have been recited, confider the
inftrument as a deed, although inoperative 'till acknowledged and enrolled,
The words do not apply to the inftruient, but to the
eftate that inftrument is intended to convey.
Since then the bankrupt law of the United States does
not affed deeds made prior to the ift of June, 18oo, and
this deed was made on the 3 oth of May, i 8OQ, the court
is of opinion, that the rights, vefted by the deed, (whatever they might be) are not divefted in favor of the affignees of the bankrupt, and therefore, that they ought
not to have recovered in this cafe,
Judgment reverfed-and judgment of non pros to be
entered.

UNITED STATES v. SIMMS.

E

U. STA'rTs

.V.
SIMM,.

V
The a&sf congrefs of t 7 th
Feb. and 3d of
March, x8or,
concerning the

]ERROR from the circuit court of the diftriC
of Columbia, fitting at Alexandria, to reverfe a judgment rendered by that court for the defendant, on an indidment for fuffering a faro bank to be played in his
houfe, contrary to an a6 of affembly of Virginia.
The indidtment fets forth that Simms,

"

on the ift

diftridl of Co- cc April, i8oi, with force and arms, at the county of
lumbia, have
wt changed

49

Alexandria, did fuffer the game called the faro bank to

FEBRUARY,

i8o3.

, be played, by divers perfoils, in a houfe of which he, U. S'ATt$
T'.
cc the faid Jefl , Snimms, then and there, at the iime of the
,IM-Mi.
,' faid play, had the poffeflion and 6fe, contrary to the
,, form of the flatute in that cafe lately made and pro' vided, and againft the peace
and government of the tI
fMa•
rvlind aM
Vir.
,c United States."
ginia, aopted
by congrlI;,ag

Pf thac
ImNs any
The record which came up contains a bill of exceptions,
diitriat,
S i [lie
taken by the ttorney for th'e United States, to the opi- ulrthr that die
nion of the court ; which opinion was, " that the pro- cliaiige u Pril"
"
"

"

ceeding by indi6dment to recover the penalty impofed
in the indi&ment it, this
by law for the offence ftated
••
cafe filed, was improper, illegal, and could not be fuftained."

didion r-nderof
ed?
law s chang,
nccefiry
Fines, firfeitures, and penalties, arifihig
fon, b reach
.'fthole Iws
ar to bc fued
focand recovered in Ox.fame

The a&t of affembly of Virginia, Janury x9, 1798,
-P. 4. ch. 2. §. 3. upon which the indi&ment was founded,
is in thefe words, " Any perfon whatfoever, who fhall fuf" fer the game of billiards, or any of the games played at
" the tables cQmmonly called the A. B. C.-E. 0. or faro faehr
a befoetechange
" bank, or any other gaming table, or bank of the fame of jurifdidicn,
," or the like kind, under any denomination whatever, to -utath zlacw-

4'be played in his or her houfe, or in a houfe of which
," he or flhe hath at the time the ufe or poffefflon, fhall,
cc for every fuch offence, forfeit and pay the fum of one
' hundred and fifty dollars, to be recovered in any court
i"of record, by any pe, on who willfuefor thejame."
'. §, 8. The prefiding juflice, as well in the diftri& as
4 in all the inferior courts of law in this commonwealth,
9, fhall conftantly give this a& in charge to the grand ju" ries of their courts, at the times when fuch grand juries
cc fhall be fworn."

Mafon, attorneyfor the United States.
The only queftion is whether an indi6tment was the
proper procefs.
This depends upon the a& of affembly .of Virginia of
the i 9 th of January, 1 798, and the atts of congrefs retpeafing the diflrid of Columbia.
By the aft of congrefs, 27 February, i8oi, -vol.5. p.
268. .7. 86. §. i. it is enafted that the laws of Virginia fhall

di,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
!5.STATES be and continue in force in that part of the diftri& whick
0-'. was ceded by Virginia. And by the ad of congrefs of
imms.
3 d Marh, s8ox, p. 287. . 2. fupplementaryto the al
of 27 th February, it is ena&ed, " that all indidments
" fhall run in the name of the United States, and con"clude againft the peace and government thereof; and
all fines, penalties and forfeitures accruing under the
, laws of the Rates of Maryland and Virginia, which
" by adoptioi have become the laws of this diftrid, fhall
",be recovered wili cofls, by indidment or information in
"9the name of the United States, or by adion of debt in
64 the name of the United States and of the informer;
" one-half of which fine (hail accrue to the United States,
" and the other half to the informer ; and the faid fines
t4 hall be colleded by, or paid to the marfhal, and one".half thereof ball be by him paid over to the board of
41 coi'nmiffioners herein after eitablifhed, and the other
"-half to the informer."
By the af of Virginia the penalty is to be recovered by
Any per/fn whe 'willfue.for the fame. If the queftion had
depended upon this a& alone, it would not have been
brought before this court. But the adt of congrefs has
changed the mode of recovery, and made an indidment
iaeceffary.
C. Leejr defendant.
-cc When a ftatute appoints a penalty for the doing of a
"thing which was no offence before, and appoints how
it fhall be recovered, it (hall be punifhed by that means,
and not by inditment." Cro. 7ac. 643. Caflks cafe,
and 2. Burrow, 803, Rex v. Robinfon.
The ilatute of Virginia contains in itfelf, the mode of
profecution ; and it being fuch (to wit, an adion of debt
by an informer,) as could not be affe&ed by the transfer
cf jurifdiaion, and the flatute being adopted by congrefs
in toto, there is no necefity of reforting to another mode.
The fupplementary a& of congrefs of the 3d of March
goi was intended to operate upon thofe cafes under the
8
laws of Virginia, where it had been neceffary to ufe the
name of the commonwealth in the recovery of fines, forfeittrcs and teaalties, and can not be fuppofed to inteftd

FEBRUARY, 13o 3 ,

253

to take w ay a private right, or to alter the mode- of pro- U.

fecution, unlefs fome alteration had become neceffary, in
confequence of thechage of government. That ad muft
be conftrued, reddendaingulafingulis; that is, where the

mode of profecution under the Rate laws was by indidment, or information in the name of the commonwealh,
it fhould, in future, be by indi&ment, or information in
the name of the United States ; and where, by the Rate
laws, the mode of profecution was an adion qui tam, or an
ad"ion of debt in the name of the informer, it fhould, in
future, be an aftion qui tain in the name of the United
States and of the informer, or an a~tion of debt in the
rJame of the informer alone.
Mafon, in reply.

The legiflature of Virginia certainly had the right and
power to alter the mode of recovering the penalty, if they
thought proper ; fo had congrefs as foon as the jurif,
diffion devolved upon them. The words of the adt of congrefs are fufliciently broad to take in this cafe. The ad
fays, all fines, penalties and forfeitures ./allbe recovered
by inditment, or information in the name of the United
States, or by aftion of debt in the name of the United
States, and of th informer ; that is, where the penalty is
to be recovered without the intervention of an informer,
there it fhall be by indiCtment or information in the name
of the United States ; but where an informer appears and
claims the penalty, there it ihall be a qui tam aaion of
debt ; and half the penalty is to go to the United States,
and half only to the informer. In this cafe there was no,
informer who claimed the penalty. The prefentment
was made by the grand jury.
Congrefs did not mean fimply to render fingulafngulis.
It was found that the criminal code of Virginia could not
be carried into effe&t in this diftria for want of a penetentiary houfe. Congrets therefore took up the criminal
fyftem and revifed it. They have pointed out botk the
mode of profecution and the appropriationh of the penalty.
They have allowed an informer to come in, in all cafes,
and claim half of the penalty ; and where, by the Rate
laws, the whole went to the informer, they have declared
that half 'l3all go to the Un'ited States.

STATZO

'.
SLmMs.

256
L.

Feb. 2 3 d. The Chief j.ujlce delivered the opinion of

STATES

q,.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the court.

SIMMi.

4

This is a writ of error to a judgment of the circuit
court of the diftridt of Columbia, fitting in the county of
Alexandria, in the following cafe.
By an ad of the legiflature of Virginia a penalty of

is impofed cin any perfon who permits certain
gamies, enumerated in the ad, to bo played in a houfe
of which he is the proprietor. [he penalty, by that ad,
is given to any perfon who wil fue for the fame.

[.15o

After the pafTage of this a&, congrefs affumed the government of the diftria, and declared the laws of Maryland to remain in force in that part of the diitri& which
had bee,, ceded by Maryland; and the laws of Virginia
to remain in force in that part of the diitridt which had
been ceded by Virginia.
Subfequent to the at of affumption an adl paffed, fupplementary to the a& entitled c, An adl concerning the
difirid of Cohmbla;" the fecond feLion of which is in
thefe words: (here the chief ju{tice read the whole fection, and the fubftance of the indicdnient.)
It is admitted that, under the laws of Virginia, an indidment for this penalty could not be fuftained ; but it is
contended that the claufe in the fupplerriental ad which
has been recited, makes a new appropriation of the pcnalty, and gives a new remedy for its recovery.
It is infifted that the words " all fines, penalties and
forfeitures accruing under the laws of Maryland and
a Virginia," &c. neceffirily.include this penalty, and by
giving a recovery in the name of the United States by
indidment, appropriate'the penalty to the public treafury.
On the part of the defendant in erxor it is contended that
the words relied ou do not change the law, further than
to fubftiiute in all adions heretofore carxied on in the
names of the flates of Maryland and Virginia refpedively, the name of the United States inftead of 'thofe
names; and that the provifions of the ad apply only t%
"

FEBRIUARY, i8oi

,

fines, penalties and forfeitures accruing to the govern-

ment.

'.

This fubjed will perbaps receive rome elucidation from
a review of the two ads of congrefs relative to the diftri& of Columbia.
The firf{ fedion of the firft a&; declaring that the
laws of the two fRates refpe&ivelv fhould remain in force
in the parts of the territory ceded by each, was perhapa
!nly dectal'atory of a principle which would have been
in full operation without fuch declaration ; yet it manifets very clearly an intention in congrefs not to take
up the fubjedf of a review of the laws of the diftri& at
that time, but to leave things as they then were, only
adapting the exifting laws to the new fituation of the
people.
Every remaining fec'ion of the a& to the x6th, is em-

ploycd on fubjeds where the mere change of government
required the intervention of the general legiflature.
The fixteenth fe&ior continues fill to manifeft a foli.
citude for the prefervation of the exii ,g.tate of things,
fo far as was compatible with the chauge of government,
by declaring that nothing contained in the ad' fhou'ld b6
conftrued to affie6 rights granted by or derived from
the ads of incorporation of Alexandria and Georgetown,
or of any body politic or corporate within the faid diftrid, except fo far as relates to their judicial powers.
This
blifhed,
and 6f
laws of

L . STAlt*

ad had given to the circuit court, which it eftacognizance of all crimes committed in the diftri&,
all penalties and forieiture accruing under the
the United States.

It was foon perceived that the criminal jurifdilifion of
the court could not be exercfed in one part of the diftri6t, becaufe by the laws of Virginia, perfons guilty of
any offence, lefs'than murder in the firit degree, were
only punifhable in the penitentiary houfe, ererted in the
city of Richmond, which puniflment the court of Calurabia could not infliCt.

"

SUPREME COURT if S.
. STATES

IV.
S!.Ms.
t

It was alfo perceived that fome embarrafsment would
arife refpefing the ftyle in which fuits, theretofore direEted to be brought in the names of Maryland and Virginia, fhould thenceforth be profecuted. The refpedive
laws authorizing them, and which were confidered as
having been re-enaded by congrefs, totideth verbis, direted fuch fuits to be profecuted in the names of Maryland and Virginia, refpeffively. The continuance of this
flyle in the courts of the United States was glaringly improper, and it was thought neceffary to change it by exprefs provifion. Thefe obje~ts rendered the fupplemental
aOt neceffary, which provides, that the criminal law of
Virginia, as it exifted before the eftablifhment of a pe'nitentiary fyftem, fhould continue in force, and that all
inditments fhall run in the name of the United States;
and all fines, penalties, and forfeitures, accruing under
the laws of the ftates of Maryland and Virginia, fhall be
recovered with cofis, &c.
The refidue of this fupplemental a& changes nothing,
and only fupplies provifions, required by the revolution
in government, and which had been omitted in the original a&.
This 'view of the two aCts would furnifh aror'g reafons
for fuppofing the obje~t of congrefs to have been, not to
change, in any refpedt, the exifting jaws, further than
the new fituation of the diftri& rendered indifpenfibly
neceffary ; and that the fines, penalties, and forfeitures alluded to in the a&,are thofe only which accrued by law,
in the whole or in part, to government; and for the recovery of which the remedy was by indi&ment or informatior, in the name of the ftate in which the court fat, or
by a qui'tam.ation in which the rame of the ftate was to
be ufed. It can not be prefumed that congrefs could
have intended to ufe the words in the unlimited fenfe contended fox.
By the laws of Virginia, an officer is liable to a heavy
fine for not returning'ant. execution whic. came to his
hands to be ferved, or'for Petaining in his hands money
levied on fuch execution. This goes to the party injured,
-and on his motion the judgment (or the: firae is to be ren-'
dered. It would be going a great way to conftrue this aOL

YiEBRUARY, i8c'3.
.ofcongrefs as making fuch a fine recoverable for the ufc U. STATIS
,of the United States ; and yet, this would be the confeSiMms.
.quence of'conflruing it to extend to fines and penalties
accruing by law, not to government, but to individuals.
eV.

If a penalty recoverable by any individual, by affion
of debt, was to be confidered as defigned to be embraced
an
by the fecond fedion of the fupplemental af, frill
a"ion of debt in the name of the United States and
of the informer, would feem to be the remedy given b.y
,the acd.
The principle, reddenda Jingulafinguls, would ne applicable ; and it would feem to the court more proper
.to fuppofe the qui tam adtion, given in thiscafe, to be
the remedy, than an indilment.
The court therefore is of opinion that there is no error
in the judgment, and that it be affirmed.*

FENWICK v. SEARS'S ADMINISTRATORS.

•ENWIcK
IV.
'SEARS'S
ADMI NRS.

ERROR ,from.the judgment of the circuit court An adminiftra-'
of the diftrida of Columbia, fitting at Wafhington, in tor, havinghad
an adfion on the cafe on a foreign bill of exchange, by lieiraion in
the adminiflrators of the indorfee againft .tle indorfer. Maryland be,fore the feparatrin of the difof
bills
and
pleadings
the
in
appears
it
as
cafe,
The'
tridt of Columbia from the
exceptions, was as follows:
original ftates,

Francis Lewis Taney, at Paris, in France, drew the can
that not,'after
feparation,
following bill of exchange.: " Paris, 5 th'Auguft, r797t maintain an ac9 Sixty days after fightof this my fecond of exchange, tionin thatpart
".(firft and third not paid) pay to the order of Mr. Jo- of the diftrid
ceded by Ma,
. t.ryland, by vii~.
by vt ya Of thofe
The defendant' s counfel prayed
-tue
• that the affirmance might becofts. It was fuggefted by fome of the gentlemen of the bar, that the.lettr of adqueftion of giving coils againfl the United States would be fully argued miniftration
"
at;
hita
ut mutt
take
in the cafe of the United States v Hoe, at this term. The court there- oec
fore pu.poned the fubjed till that argument ihould. be had That caufe out new letter
however went off upon another ground without any argament on thc within the .di
queflion of coils And the court did not give any diredlions refPe&ing tri&.'
the cofls in the prefent cafe.

