SUPREME COURT U. S.

212
CLLARKE
.71.

CLARKE v. BAZADONE.

BAZADONE.
A writ lFe
of error
doesnot
from
the fupreme '-aS

court of the U.
states to the
general court
for the Terr-

,-

was a writ of error iflued from.this court

to the general court for the territory north-weft of the river
Ohio, to reverfe a judgment rendered in that court againift
Clarke, the plaintiff in error, in favor of Bazadone, on a

tory north-weft foreign attachment for 12,2oo dollars damages, and 95
of the Ohio. dollars, and, 30 cents coifs.
The general court of the North-weflern Territory was
e~ablifhed by -the ordinance of the, old congrefsi under
the confederation, and the principal queftion was, whethe a writ of error would lay from this court to the general court of that Territory.
TLere was no appearance for the defendant in error.
MI(afn, 'for plaintiff in error, contended,
i ft.That this court. poffeffes a general fup~rintending
power over all the other courts of the United States, refulting from the nature of a fupreme court, independent
of any exprefs provifions of the conftitution or lavws of
the United Statcs.
2d. 'That this court has the power under the conftitution of the United States.
ift. It is a general principle that the proceedings of an
inferior tribunal are to be corre~ted by the fuperior, unlefs the litter is exprefbly reftrained from exercifing, fuch
a control. This is a principle of the laws of that country
from which we derive moft of our principles of jurifprudence, and is fo intimately conne-ed with them that
it is difficult to feparate them.

In the Saxon. times, the Wittenagernote was the futpreme court, and had the general fuperintendance.
But in the time of William the conqueror, the aula
regis was eftabliihcd as the fover~ign court of the Jing.

FEBRUARY,

1803.

213

dona, and to that court devolved all the former judicial
pover of the Wittenagemote; the power of fuperiutiend..

C1,ARX9

ing the other courts was derived from the principle of BA?_,
fupremacy. i Crompton's praaice, 3, 5, I2, 21, 22, 26,
27, 28.
.Bac. ab. 553
.2 Bac.ab. 187. Awritofer-

ror is a commiffion to judges of a fuperior court, by which
they are authorized to examine the record, upon which
a judgment was given in an inferior court, and on fuch
examination to reverfe or affirm the fame, according to
law.
2. Bac. ab. 213.

The court of king's bench fuper-

intends the proceedings of all other inferior courts, and
by the plenitude of its power, corre&s the errors of thofe
courts ; hence it is that a writ of error lies in that court,
of a judgment given in the king's bench in Ireland. And
upon a judgment in Calais, when under the fubje&ion of
the king of Englarud, a writ of error lay in the king's
bench, 4 Inft. 282. A writ of error would have Jaid
to the king's bench from thefe colonies, before the revolution, but for the particular provifions of charters, " c.
Bac" ab. 194.

Wherever a new jurifdiaion is cr eed

by a& of parliament, and the court aas as a court of record, according to the courfe of the common law, a writ
of error lies on their judgments.
The power is inherent in every fuperior court, to re-,
vife the judgments of its inferior.
2d. By the conititution of the United States, art. 3,
fec. 1, 2, the judicial power is vefted in one fupreme court
and fuch inferior courts as congrefs fhall, from time to
time, ordain and eftablifh ; and fliall extend to all cafes
arifing under the contitution, and laws of the United
States, and to controverfies in which the United States
fhall be a party, And the fupreme court is to have appellate jurifdidion in all thefe cafes, with fuch exceptions
and under fuch regulations as congrefs fhall make. Congrefs has made no exception of the prefent cafe; and no
regulation of congrefs was neceffary to give this court
the appellate power. It derives it from the conftitution
itfelf.
This is a cafe arifing under the laws of the, United
5tate,.

V.
.

214

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The very exiftence of the court whofe judgment is complaineA of, is derived from the United States. The laws
adopted forthe North-weitern Territory derive their whole
obligatory effed from the ordinance of the old congrefs,
and are in fad, laws of the United States, although copied from ftate laws. All power and authority exercifed
in that territory have emanated from the United States ;
and all offences there committed are againft the authority
of the United States.

CLARK
'
BAZADOMN.

v

If then this is a cafe by the confitution cognizable by
the judicial authority of the United States; if by the
conflitution, this court has appellate jurifdi&,ion in all
fuch cafes, and if this cafe is not within any exception
made by the conflitution or by any ad of congrefs, so.
thing is wanting but to devife a modeto bring the caufe before this court. The writ of error is the common and well
known procefs in like cafes, and by the fourteenth fe&ion
of the judiciary ad of 1789, every court of the United
States is exprefsly authorized "to iffue writs offiirefaias,
" habeas corpus, and all other writs not fpecially provided
" for by ftatute, which may be necefaryfor the exercife o
" their rcfpefive jurifditions, and agreeable to the princi-

44 pies and ufages of law." If then the court hasjurifdidion, no difficulty can occur as to a mode of exercifing it.

The court quafhed the writ of error,
On the ground that the a& of congrefs had not authorized an appeal or writ of error, from the general court of
the North-weftern Territory, and therefore, although from
the manifeft errors on the face of the record, they felt
every difpolition to fupport the writ of error, they were
of opinion they could not take cognizance of the cafe.
HOOE AND CO. v. GROVERMAN.
'Roo ?

Co.

IV.

ERROR

OROVER.

GROAE..
... .

from the circuit court of the difirid

of Columbia, in an adion of covenant by Grovernan, ow-ier of the brig Naricy, againft Hooe and co.

4

