dM[
'irlT II

11

Ir

-

I

SUPREME COURT U. S.
AUGUST,

i8oi.

SILAS TALBOT v. HANS FRED. SEEMAN.

TA LEOT
'V.

THIS was a writ of error to reverfe a decree of the S-alvageaUowcd
circuit court which reverfed the decree of the diftria to a United
ihip of
court of New Ybrk fo far as it allowed falvage to the re- Stattes
var, for the
captors of the fhip Amelia and her cargo,

re-capture of a

Harnburgh vef-

The libel in the diftria court was filed November 5 th
1799, by captain Talbot, in behalf
of himfelf and the

cdsout of

the

Frnch,(France
other officers and crew of the United States fliki of war and Hamiburgh.

the,Cohftitufion, againift the thip Amelia, hcr tackle, fur- being neutral to
niture and cargo; and ftsorh
each other) on

c

the ground that

ihe

was in

t. That in purf'uance of inftruEions from the p'refident dage of conundetonation
the
fubdued, feized, &c. on the h19g11 ,er
United
of
thethe
teas,
faid States
chipheoAmelia
and cargo, &c. and brofght dcree ofFrench
igth
her into the port of New-York.
January,
t798.
The United
France,
2. Th t at the time of capture fhe was armedwith States
in the&year

eight carriage-guns and was under the command of citoy- 1799, were in
en Etienne Prevoft, a French officer of marine, and had a ftate of parwar.
til tupporta
on board, befides the commander, eleven French mariners Tes..c
That the libellant has been informed that fhe, being the dcpanp for
property ;f fome perfon to him unknown, failed from falvage, the reCalcutta, an Englifli port in the Eaft-Indies, bound for capture muft be
fome port in Eutope ; that upon her faid voyage (he was lawftoI, and a
1.

inritorinus fer-

met with and captured by a French national corvette, cal- vice muft btled Li Diligente, commanded by L. J. Dubois, who took rendered.
out of her the captain and crew of the Ametia, with all the
I'canfe is.
flicielt to renpapers relating to her and her cargo, and placed the fai. j fu
der the re-rapEtienne Prevoft, and the faid French mariners, on board ture iawffi.
of her, and ordered her to St. Domingo for ajuiodlication, Where the
as a good and lawf~il prize; and that he remained in the amuut of falA.

SUPREME COURT V. S.
TA ZOr

frill an3 -peaceible poflkffion of the French, from the time

of her capture, for the fpace of ten days, whereby, the
libeflant is advIfed, that, as well by the law of nations,
not re- as by the paticular laws of France, the faid fhip became,
gulated by po- and was to be confidered as a French fhip.
SEEMAN.

fitive law, it

Whereupon, he prays ufuay procefs, &c. and con.demnation ; or, in cafe reftoration thould be decreed, that
general law. it may be on payment of fuch falvage as by law ought
'Marine ordi- to be paid for the fame.
inuft
minedbebydeterthe

principles of

nances of -foreign countries,

The claim and anfwer of Ila- s Frederic Seeman in behalf of Meffrs. Chapeau Rouge and Co. of Hamburgh,
by order of the owners of the fhip Amelia and her cargo, flated, That the
,Iegiflatureofthec
enited State, laid hip cQmmanded by Jacob F. Engelbrecht, as, mafter,
may beread in failedon the 2oth of February, 1798, from Hambugh orn
the courts of the a voyage to the Eaft-Indies, where fhe arrived fafe ; that iv
United States, April, 1799, fbe left Calcutta bound to Hamburgh; that.
promulgated by
the executive,

'withouL further

atithentication
or proof. "
municipal Itwa
of foreign coun-

during her voyage, and at the time of her capture by the
French, fhe and her cargo belonged to Meffirs. .1hapeau
Rouge and Co. citizens of Hamburgh, and if reftored.flie
will be whollytheir property that on the 6th of Septem.-

ially to be
proved as.
fads.

ber, on her voyage home, lhe was captured on the high
feas by a French armed veffel commanded by citizen Dubois, who took out the mafter and -thirteen of her crew
and allherpapers, leaving on board 'the claimant, -who was

tries are gene-

mate of the Amelia, the doctor, and five other men.
That the French commander put on board -twelve -hands
and ordered her to St. Domingo, and parted from her on
the5 th day after her capture. That on the x5 th of September, the Amelia, while in poffeflion of the French,
was captured, without any refiftance on .her part, by ihe
faid fhip of war, the Conftitution, and brought into NewYork. That the Amelia had eight carriage guns, it being ufual for all veffels in the trade fhe was carrying on to
be armed, even in times of general peace. That-there be,
ing peace between France and Hamburgh at the time of
the firft capture,. and alfo between- the United States and
Hamburgh, and between the United States and Fra,:ce,
.the poffeffion of the. Amelia by the. French.. in the manner, and for the time fRated in the faid libel, could neither by the laws of nations, nor by the laws of France,
nor .bythofe of the United States, change the property of
.the faid fhip Amelia and ner cargo, or make the fame liable

AUGUST, i~ot.

3

"f tdemnitidn'i'a French court of admiralty; that the
fame could not therefore be confidered as French properti wherefore, he prays reftoration in like plight as at toe
time of capture bythe fhip Conftitution, with coits and

charges.
'Onthe i6th December, 1799, the diftria judge, by
onfent of parties, made an interlocutory decree, dire6aing
the marfhal to fell the fhip and cargo, and bring the money into court; and that the clerk ihould pay half of the
amount of fales to the claimant, on his giving fecurity to
refund in cafe the court thould fo decree ; and that the
clerk fhould retain the other half in his hands, together
with all cofts and charges, -&c.
Afterwards, on the 25th of February, i8oo, the judge
of the diftri& court made his final decree, dircting half
of the grofs amount of fales of the ihip and cargo, without any deduffion whatever, to be paid.to the libellant
for the. ufe of the officers and crew of the fhip Conftitution, to be diftributed according to the a6t of congrefs
foi the government of the navy of the United States.
And that. outof the other moiety,' the clerk ihould pay
tht officers of the court, and the proCtors for the libellant
and claimant, their taxedcofts and charges, and that the
refidue ihould be paid to the owners of the Amelia or
their' agent.
From this decree the claimant appealed to the circuit
court.
At the circuit court for the diftrid of New-York in
Aprl, x8oo, before judge Wafhington and the diftri&
judge, the caufe was argued by B. Livingfton and Burr
for the appellant, and Harrifon and Hamilton for the refponident; and on the 9 th of April, i 8oo, the circuit
tourt made the following decree,viz.
"4That the decree of the diftri& court, fo far forth as it
ccorders a payment, by the clerk, of a moiety of the grof5
91 amoubntof fales to Silas Talbot, commander, &c. and to
"the officers and crew 6f the faid fbip Conftitution, is
erroneous, and fo far forth be reverfed without cofts;
cc that is to fay, the court, confidering the admiffion on

TA!

Bor

"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT
SEEMAN.

" the part of the refpondent, that the papers brought
" here by Jacob Frederic Englebrecht, mafter of the

": faid fhip Amelia, prove her and her cargo to be Ham'burgh property, and alfo confidering that as the nation
" to which the owners of the faid fhip and cargo belong,
" is in amity with the French republic, the faid fhip and
c' cargo could not, confiftently with the laws of nations,
" be condemned by the Fredch as a lawful prize, and that
" therefore no fervice was rendered by the United States
Jihip of war the Conftitution, or by the commander,
" (flicers or crew thereof, by the re-capture aforefaid.
4 Whereupon it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by
"the court, and it is hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed by the authority of the fame, that the former
4' part of the decree of the diftri& court, by which a
" moiety of the proceeds is allowed to the commander,
"officers and crew aforefaid, be and the fame is hereby
' reverfed.
" And the court further confidering all the circum*
* frances of the prefent cafe ar.ifing from the capture and
9"re-capture flated in tbe libel and claim And anfwer, and
" that-by the fale of the faid fhip Amelia and her cargo,
"9 made with the exprefs confent of the appellant, the cofis
" and charges in this caufe have nearly all accrued, and
"' that therefore the expenfes fhould be defrayed out of
" the proceeds, Thereupon, it is hereby further ordered,
c adjudged and decreed by the court, that fo much of
" the faid decree of. the faid diftria court as relates to the
"payment, by the clerk, to the feveral officers of the
" court, and to the prodors of the libellant and claimant
11 in this caufe, of their taxed colts and charges, out of
" the other moiety of the faid proceeds, and alfo of the
" refidue of the faid laft mentioned moiety, after dedua"' ing the cofts and charges aforefaid, to the owner or
1 owners of the faid thip Amelia and her cargo, or to
" their legal reprefentatives, be and the fame is hereby
a- affirmed.

To reverfe this decree the libellant fued out a writ of
to the fupreme courti and by cLnfent of parties,
the following flatement of fats was anned to the record which came up.
error

AUGUST, i8ot.
49 The flbip Amelia failed from Calcutta in Bengal, in.
cc the month of April, 1799, loaded with a cargo of the

" produa and manufadory of that country, confifting
CC
of cotton, fugars, and dry goods in bales, and was
"c bound to Hamburgh.
I On the 6th of September in the fame year, fhe was
99 captured, while in the purfuit of her faid voyage, by
" the French national corvette La Diligente, L .J. Dubois
"c commander, who took out her captain and part of her
" crew, togethcr with moft of her papers, and placed a
prize mafter and French failors on board of her, order"ing the prize mafter to conduf her to St. Domingo, to
"be judged according to the laws of war.
"On the i 5 th of the fame month of September, the
"United States thip of war the Conftitiltion, command" ed by Silas Talbot, efquire, the libellant, fell in with
cc and re-captured the Amelia,. fhe being then in full pof9 feffion of the French, and purfuing her courfe for St.
if Domingo according to the orders received from the
"captain of the French corvette.
" At the time of the re-capture, the Amelia had eight
"ciron cannon mounted, and eight wooden guns, with
CC
which the left Calcutta, as before Rtated.

" From fuch of the ihips papers as were found on
"9board, and the teftimony in the caufe, the fhip Amelia
*t and her cargo appear to have been the property of
Chapeau Rouge, a citizen of Hamburgh, refiding and
c carrying on commerce in that place.
, It is conceded that the republic of France and
it the city of Hamburgh are not in a flate of hoftility to" each other ; and that Hamburgh is to be coufidered
" as neutral between the prefent belligerent powers.
" The Amelia and her cargo, having been fent by
captain Talbot to New-York, were there libelled in
9, the difria court, and fuch proceedings were thereupon
" had in that court, and the circuit court for that dif" trid, as may appear by the writ of error and re",

" turn."

TAI

T

sE^A.

SUPREME CCURT .U. S.
TAL1181

".

Thecatifenow came on to be argued it Auguit term,
18oi, by Bayard and Ingerfol for the libellant, and
SDallas, Mafon, and Levy for the claimant.
-

For the libellant three points were made.
1. That at the time, and under the circumfta'ndes,
the fhip Amelia was liable to capture by the law, and
inftruffions) to feize French armed vetTels, for the putpofe of being brought into port, and fubmnitted to legal
adjudication in the courts of the United States.
2. That Captain Talbot, by this capture, faved the
thip Anmelia from condemnation in a French court of
admiralty.

3. That for'this fervice, upon abftraded principles of
equity and juftice, according to the law of nations, and
the adfs of congrefs, the re-captors are entitled to a compenfation for falvage.
x. Had captain Talbot a right to feize the Amelia, and
bring her into port for adjudication ?
The ads of congrefs on this fubjed ought all to be
confidered together and in one view. This is the general rule of c'onftrudion where feveral aCts are made in
parl'niteri.
Plowden, 206. I Ati. 4S7, 458.
The firft ad authorizing captures of Fr.ench veffels, Is
that Qf 28th May, 1798, Laws of United States, vol 4,
pl 120.
['he preamble recites that " whereas armed vefiffels failing under authority, orpretence of authoritylfromthe
cc repyblic of France,have committed depredations on. the
cc commerce of the United States," &c. therefore, it is
enaded that the prefident be authorized to infiru6 and
dire& the commanders of the atmed veffels of the United
States "to feize, take and bring into any port of the
unfited States, to be proceeded againft according to the
'laws of nations, anyfuch armed veflbl, which (hall have
Scornmitted, or which flall be found l-overin$ on the
CCcoafts of the United States, for the purpofe of comcc mitting depredations on the vefls1a belonging to citi-v
" zcns thereof; and alfo to re-take any fhip or veffel of

AUGUST, x,8o1.
a aiy ctizen or citizens of the United States, -which

I'may have been captured by any fuch armed veffel."

The Amelia was " an armed veffel failing under autho" rity, from the republic of France," and if (he had com
.pitted, cr had been found hovering on the coaft for the
,purp, e of committing depredations on the vcffels of the
citizens of the United 4$tates, ,he would have been clearly
Jiable'to capture under this ad of congrefs.. This aa is
enttled " An a& more Cfe7ually to protedt the commerce
" and coafts of the United States ," and by it the objes
of capture are limited to " armed veffels failing under
-,authority, or pretence of authority, from the republic
cc of France, which ihall have committed, or which fliall
-cc be found hovering on. the coafts of the United States,
." for the purpofe of committing depredations," &c. It
was foon perceived that a right of capture; fo limited,
.would not afford what th at contemplated, an #Leutal
,rot&ion to the commerce qf the United states. Congrefs, therefore, on the 9 th July, 1798, atthe fame feffion, paffed the " ad further to protet the, commerce of
United Stater, 'Q1. 4. P.
" the United States," (LawsM
.63.) and thereby took off the reftriaion of the former
a&, which limited captures to veffels having ;alu~lly
.committed depredation, or which were hovering on the
coaft for that purpofe. This ad authorizes the capture
*of any " armed French v eel on the ,high feas,", and if
.the Amelia was ftch an armed French veffel as is con•templated by this aO, the was liable to capture, and it
.was the duty .ofcaptain Talbot -to take her and bring her
into port. Another adl was paffed at the, fame fefflon,.
on the 25 th June, 1798, (Laws Uniled $tates, vol. 4. P.
148.) entitled " An a& to authorize the defence of the
c merchant veffels of the United States againft French
c depredations," which, as it conftitutes a part of thjut
.yftem of defence and oppofition which the legiflature
hiad in view, ought to be taken into confideration. It
.enats that merchant veffels of citizens of the United
States may oppofe and defend againft any fearch,:reftraint
or feizire which fhall be attempted " by the commander
C' or crew of any armed veffel failing under French colours,
(" or aaing, or pretending to afH, by, or under the authority
cc of the French republic," and in cafe of attack .may repel
the fame, and fubdue and capture the veffel. The court

TALBOT

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBoT
sVMAN.

in confiruing any one of thefe laws will not confine
themfelves to the ftri& letter of that particular law, but

will confider the fpirit of the times, and the objed and
intention of the legiflature. It 'ievident by the title of
the ad of July 9 th, 1798, and by the general complexion
of all the aCts of that feflion upon the fubje&, that it
was not the intention of congrefs, by the ad of July 9 th,
to reftrid the cafes of capture contemplated by the ad of
28th May, but to enlarge them. The fpirit of the peo.
ple was roufcd; they demanded a more vigorous and a.
more effedStual oppofition to the aggreflions of France.,
and the fpirit of congrefs rofe with that of the people.
It cannot be fuppofed that having in Alay ufed the
expreffion, " armed veffels failing under authority, or
" pretence of authority, from the republic of France,"
and in J7une the exprefflon, " any armed veffel failing
" under French colours, or ading, or pretending to adf,
by, or under the authority of the French republic,"
they meant to refirict the cafes of capture, in July, when
the: ufed the words " any armed French veffel." On the
contrary, the confidence in the national opinion'was increafed, and further meafures of defence were adopted',
intending not to recede from any thing done before, but
to amplify the oppofition. The ad of July was in addition to, not in derogation from, the ad of May. Congrefs evidently meant the fame defcription of veffels, in
each of thofe a&s. " Armed veffels failing under autho" rity, or pretence of authority,,of France," and "arm" ed veffels failing under French colours, or adfing, or
" pretending to at under authority of the French repub" lie," and "armed French veffels," mu'ft be underflood
to be the fame.
If there is a difference no reafon can be given for it.
A veffel, in the circumftances of the Amelia, was as cahad been ownpable of annoyirig our commerce as if flie
ed by Frenchmen. Her force was at the command of
France, and there can be no doubt but fhe would have
captured any unarmed American that might have fallen
in her way. She was, therefore, one of the objeds of that
hofti*ity which congrefs had authorized. Congrefs have
the power of declaring war. They may declare a general
war, or a partial war. So it may be a general maritime
war, or a partial maritime war.

AUGUST,

8oi.

9

This court, in the cafe of Bafs and Tingey, have dcto
cided that the fituation of this country with regardfub-

The
France, was that of a partial and limited war.
ftantial queftion here is, whether the cafe of the Amelia
is a cafus belli-whether fhe , ad an obje& of that limited
war. The kind of war which exifted was a war againft all
French force found upon the ocean, to feize it and bring
it ih, that it might not injure our commerce. It is precifely as if cungrefs had authorized the capture of all
French veffels, excepting thofe unarmed. If fuch had
been the expreffions, there could be no doubt of the right
to capture. The objca of the war being to deftroy
French armed force, and not French property, it made
no difference in whom the abfolute property of the veffel
..was, if her force was under the command of France.
Suppofe the.Amelia had captured an American, ,by what
nation would the capture be made ? by Hamburgh-or by
France ? There can be no doubt but the injury would be
attributed to.France. She was under French colours,
armed, and to every intent an objed of the partial war
which exifted ; and if fo, her cafe is governed by the
rights of war, arid by the law of nations, as they exift
in a ftate of general war.
Perhaps it may be faid that this proves too much, and
that if true, the Ameli'. muft be condemned as prize.This would be true if the rights of a third party did not
interfere. Having accomplifl-ed the obje& of fhe war,
at it relates to this cafe, in wrefting from France the armed force, we muft now.refpect the rights of a neutral nation, and reftore the property to its lawful owner. But
this is a' fubfequent confideration. It is only neceffary
now to fhew that the capture. was fo far a lawful a& as
to be capable of fupporting a claim of falvage. At firft
"View fhe certainly prefented the appearance of fuch an
armed French fhip as the libellant was bound in duty to
feize and bring in, at leaft for further examination. He
had probable caufe, at leaft, which is fufficient to juftify
the feizure and detention. But if fhe was liable to be
condemned by France, being in the hands and poffeffion
of the French, fhe was within the fcope of the war which
exifted'between the United States and France ; fhe was
within the meaning of the aft of congrefs.*
authority is there for American armed veffcl to reB
*aByard.-What
Capture Britilh .veffels taken by the, French
&',r, 7,,flir,
B t

TALBOT

S

A

N.

SUI'REME COURT U. S.
TA

BOT

I"*

EEMAN.

The adl of July gives no new authority to re-capture

American veffels ; it only gives to private armed veffels
the fame right, which the' at of May gives to the public
armed veffels, to make captures and re-captures.
But
the ad of May only authorizes the re-capture of American veffels, , which may have been captured by any

fuch armed veffel," i. e. by armed veffels failing under
authority from the republic of i rance, and which fhall
have committed, or be found hovering on the coafts for
the purpofeof committing depred ations on ourcommerce."
Yet the inftruftions from the prefident were to re-capture
all American veffels. 'rhefe inftruaions fhew the opinion
of the executive upon the conftrudion of the ads of coni.
grefs, and for that purpofe they were offered to be read.

The counfel for the claimant objected to"their being
read, becaufe they were not in the record.

The counfel for the libellant contended they had a right
to read them as matter of opinion, but did not offer them
as matter of fa&. t
2.

The court refufed to hear them.

The fecond point is, that a fervice was rendered to

the owners of the Amelia, by the te-capture, in as much
Chafe, 7uflice -1" Is there any cafe where it has been decided in our
courts that fuch a re-capture was lawful ?"
" It has been fo decided in the Englifh courts."
The counfel on both fidesadmitted that no fuch cafe had occurred id
this country.
t Cbaz,, ) flice -I Im agalnft reading the inftru&ion&, beetufe'1 am
againft bringing the executive into court on any occaflion It has been
decided, as 'I think, in this court, that inlru6iobs 1hould not be read. '
I think it was in a cafe of infiru&ions to the colle&ors. It was op.
-pofed by judge Iredell, and the oppofition acquiefed in by th "court.
Patrfon, 7aolice.-The inrftru6tions can only be evidence of the opinion of the executive, which is not binding upon us.
Mar/hail, Cbhif .7utice-1l have no objeftion td hearing them, but
they will have no influence on my opinion!
Moore, yuflice.--Mr. Bayard can ftte all they contain, and they may
be confidered as part of his argument.
Bayard.-May I be permitted to read them as a part of my fpeech r
The Court.-We are willing to hear them aa the opinion of Mr. Bayard,
but not as the opinion of the executive.
Bayard- acquiefee in the opinion of the court. My reafons for wilsing to read them were, becaife the opinion of learned men, and men of
(cience, 'will always have fome weight with other learned men And the
court would confider well the opinion of the etecutive before they would
decide contrary to it.

AUGUST, iBox.

ishe was thereby faved from condemnation in a French
court of admiralty.

TALBOT
S
'

To fupport this pofition, the counfel for the libellant
relied on the general fyftem of violation of neutral rights
adopted by France.
In general cafes, when belligerents refpe& the law oK
nations, no falvage can be claimed for the re-capture of a
neutral veffel, becaufe no fervice is rendered ; but rather
a differvice, becaufe the captured would, in the courts of
the captors, recover damages and cofts, for the illegal capture and detention.
The principle upon which the circuit court decided is'
not denied ; but it is contended that a fervice was rendered by the re-capture. To thew this, the counfel for the
libellant offered to read ihe meffage from the prefident to
both houfes of congrefs, of 4th May, 1798, containing
the communications from our envoys extraordinary at
Paris, to the department of ftate, and fundry arrets and
decrees of the 'government of France, in violation of
neutral rights, and- of the laws of nations; and particularly the decree of the council of five hundred of 29 th
Nivofe, an 6, (Jan. 18, 1798,) which declares, "That
" the charader of vefibls, relative to their quality of neu" ter or enemy, fhall be determined by their cargo ; in
"1confequence, every veffel found at fea, loaded, in whole
"for in part, with nichandize the prod ufion of England
"6or of her poffefflons, fhall be declared good prize, who-

" ever the owner of thefe goods or merchandize may be."

The counfel for the claimant obje&ed to the reading of
thofe difpatches, becaufe they were matter of faA. No
new fad can be fhewn on the writ of error. Neither the
pleadings, nor the ftatement of fads accompanying the
record, give notice of introducing this new matter. B
the aef congtefir, vol. x.p. 6o, 6f, a ftate of the cafe
muft come up with the record ; and is conclufive on this
court. 3 Dal. 32!, Wifcart v. Dauchy. ih.p. 327,
.EIfworth, chief julice, faid, a writ of error removes only
matter of law. Arrets and decrees of foreign governments, are matters of fad, and muff be proved as fuch,
and the court can not nbtice them unlefs hewn in the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT

N.
S__y..

pleadings, admitted or proved.

x. P. Wins. 429, 43 .
Freeimoult v. Dcdre. Douglas, 557. Bernardi v. Motteaux. The fame cafe in the 2d edition, p. 575 to 579.
In that cafe the court could not take notice of the arret
of July, 1778, as it had not been given in evidence at
the trial.
The general condu& of France is a matter of fat,
which can only be noticed by the fovereign of the ftate.
J udznmcnt upon a writ of error muff be upon the fame
fadls upon which the judgment below was predicated.
3 B!. Com. 405. (Wrilliams's edition 407.) 8. Term Rep.
438, 434, 566. If it is matter of law, it is not fuch

law as is binding upon this court, and therefore they
cannot officially take notice of it. Foreign laws mufr be
iproved as facts. 3 Woodefon 306. 2 Eq. ca. ab. 289, 476.
2. Salk. 651. Way v. Yally, 6 Mod. 19 S.fame cafe. Cowp.
174 , 175, Moflyn v. Fabrigas. The law mijt be given
in evidence. ,Bos. & Pul. 171, 175, 138. 8 Term Rep.

S66.

Fats cannot be adduced to contradiCt,the record.

8 Term Rep. 438.

In 2. Rob. I26. (American ed.) the

Providentia. Dr. Scott relied on the king's inifrudions,
but that was becaufe the king has the power of war and
peace.
A ftate of the cafe is like a fpecial verdict; nothing'
riew can be added to it.,
In i. Rob. S7. The Santa Cruz. Dr. Scott required

the ordinances of Portugal to be proved, and evidence
of the decifions of their tribunals upon them.
On the contrawy, it was faid by the counfelfor the libel
lant, that this cafe differs from evidence offered to a jury.
In cha ncery, -if evidence is not legal the chancellor will
hear. t, but will give it no weight. The pamphlet containing the difpatches is offered to be read, not to flhew
what are the municipal laws of France, but "whatis the
law of nations in Fiance; to fhew how it has been modified by that government. We are before this court as a
court of admiralty, and not .as a court of common law.
All the world are parties to a decree of a courtof admiralty.
Bernardiv,. Motteux. Doug. 560 or 58i. This court is now

tn decide by the law of nations, not by municipal regp-

AUGUSr,' Boi.
lations. All the cafes cited againft us are cafes in cornmon law courts. But courts of admiralty take notice of
foreign ordinances-which affe&l the law of nations, without their being fhewn in evidence. i Rob. Engliyk ed.
341. American ed. 287. The Maria. and x Rob. Englij/
ed. 368. American ed. 304 fame cafe.
The obje& in reading thefe difpatches is to fhew that
the law of nations was not refpe~ked in France ; that the
conftru&ion of their courts of admiralty was fuch that
their decifions could not conform to the law of nations,,
that the law of nations has been fo modified in France
that there was no certainty of indemnity for neutrals,
and that by the decrees and arrets of that government,
the Amelia would have been condemned. They are offered as the official communications of our authorized
agents abroad to the executive, and by that department
communicated to congrefs, and publifhed in conformity
to an-a& of congrefs (4. vol.p. 239.) for the information
of the citizens of the United States. This a& of congrefs has made them proper evidence before this court,
who are therefore bound to notice them. On the fubje& of admitting foreign ordinances in a court of admiralty no difficulty ever occured. The obje&ions are only
to private municipal regulations. Such, it is admitted,
muff be proved as faas, but not when they are offered
as explaining the law of nations. In i Rob. American ed.
288. (The Maria.) this very decree is cited ; and it is
immaterial to us whether we read it out of the difpatchea
or' out of the book which the oppofite counfel have already cited for other purpofes. By the fame rule that
they read pages 57, and i r6, we may furely read page
288.
On the part of tb claimant it was replied,
That this decree is not an a& of congrefs, nor the
law of. nations, but fimply a law of France. The record
is confined to the fa&s which originally came up with
the writ of error, or fuch as may afterwards be procured
upon a fuggeftion of diminution. It is admitted that in
equity, on an appeal to the houfe of lords, nothing new
can be received. And nothing ought now to be read
which was not before the circuit' court, or which that

TALBOT

.M.
8--.

SUPRE.ME COURT V. S.
was bound to notice. ,In.the cafes cited by the opcounfel the arrows were read by confenat., A common -law court is as much bound as a court of admiralty
to take notice of the law of nations, on a queftion where
that law appliesj and the rules by which common law
courts are bound, as to evidence of the law of nations,
are equally binding on courts of admiralty.

court
rALBOT
WKoM
.
pofite
L

The court fuffered the dilpatcnes, and decrees of France,
to be read, but referved the queftion, whether they ought
to be con fidered in their decifion of this caufe, until the
whole argument of the cafe fhould be finiffhed,
x te counfel for -tbe Jib/l1ant proceeded in the argument
on the 2d point.
The decree of xith of January, 1798, was not repealed till the 14 th of December, 1799, and confequenfly
was in full force at the time of the capture on,the 6th

of September, i799. The fads ftated in the appendix
to 2d vol. of Robertfon's reports, fhew that the French
ad difcarded the law of nations, and that their condud
towards neutrals had been fuch as to exclude every poffibility of efeape. So notorious was this'condud that
fir William Scott makes it the ground of his decifion in various cafes.
It is not neceffary to (hew that the Amelia would certainly have been condemned. To entitle to- falvage jt is
only neceffary to fhew that the was in a better condition
by the re-capture. Her cargo was tharodudion of the
poffeffions of England, and therefore by the decree of
x8th January, i 79R, was liable to condemnation. The
general condu& of France- and of the French courts of
admiralty towards neutrals has been .repeatedly adjudged
by Sir William Scott a good ground for falvage i
Rob. 232. ('The Two Friends) 2 Rob. 246. ( The War Onkan'.)
3 dly. But without reforting to the general principle
of a fervice being a ground for falvage, we claim it under the exprefs terms of the a& of congrefs of the 2d of
March, 1799, entitled "an adft for the government of
"the navy of the United States," §.7. voL. 4.P. 471. by

AUGUST, Lgo,.
which it irena&ed "' that for the fhips or goods belongt.
" ing tQ the citizens of the UnitedI States, or to the citi-

(9zens or fubjeds of any. nation in amity with the
".,United States, if re-taken from the enemy within twexL
":ty-four hours, the owners are to allow one-eighth part
*' of the whole value for falvage, &,c and if after ninety-fix hours, one half ; all of which is to be paid with.
" out any deduffion whatfoever."
In the cafe of "Basand T'ingey it was decided by this
court that France was to be confidered as an enemy. The
cafe of the Amelia comes within the very words of this
a& of congrefs. She is a fhip belonging to citizens of
a nation in amity with the United States, re-taken from
the enemy after a poffeffion of ninety-fix hours.
By the ail of congres of 2gth June, 1798, vol 4- P.
149, 150. property. of American 6itizens, re-captured
by armed merchant veffels, is to be reftored on the payment of not lefs than one-eighth, and not more than onehalf for falvage. And bythe aaof 3 d March, x8oo, not
lefs than one-fixth is allowed on re-capture by a private
armed veffel, and one-eighth by a public fbip of war.
If then the re-capture of thi veffel was a lawful a6kj
and if fervice was rendered thereby to the owners, the
re-captors are entitled to falvage, and the rate of that
falvage is by the ad of congrefs fixed at one-half of the
,alue of the fhip and cargo.
On the part of the. claimant it was faid, that if France
aud America were at peace, the re-capture was not au.
thorized by the lawv of nations. The claim of falvage
muff reft on two grounds.
x. A right to interfere.
2. A benefit conferred on the owners.
x. It is admitted that a belligerent has a right to detain
a neutral -veffel and carry her into port for. the purpofe of
examination. The pofleflion of a belligerent muff, by
third parties, be confidered as lawful, whatever may be
2 Wood fon
the motive or intent of fueh poffeffion.

*.sAlzao

ari

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT
EMAN.

Y

424. The belligerent has a lawful right to fearch merchant veffels, and this right cannot be confidered as in,
jurious to the fair neutral trader. Refiftance to fuch

fearch is unlawful, and fuch refiftance, a refcue, or an
efcape, are fuflicient caufes to condemn the neutral veffel. Vattel. B. 3. c. 7. §" 114. p. 507. 1 Rob. 304. (Te
Maria.)
The a& of the re-captor's, then being in aid of the
unlawful refiftance of the neutral, muft in itfelf be illegal. 'Ihe courts of the captors only are competent to decide the queftion of prize or no prize. American'citizens
have no right to interfere, and wreft the neutral veffel
from the poflhflion of the belligerent.
The French have been reprefented as pirates, bo/les humanigeneris. But if France has waged fo general a war
on neutral property, has not England done the fame?
We find in their courts, that when a benefit is to accrue
to Britiih fubjeCds, by fuch a decifion, they decide that.
France muft be prefumed to refpea the law of nations
and to decree reftitution ; i Rob. 84, 85. (The Betfey.)
7 erm Rep. 695. Geyer v. Aquilar ; but when falvage is
to be given to Britifh re-captors of neutral property, then
it appears that Frrnce has loft all regard for the law of
nations, and there is no chance of efcape from her courts
of admiralty. i Rob. 232. (The Two Friends.) 2 Rob.
246. ( Ie. War Oqikan.).
But it is contended that the courts of France would
have decided according to the decree of i8th January,
1798, and not according to the law of nations. This is
not to be prefumed but if it was, however tyrannical
the condudf of a belligerent may be, no neutral can lawfully interfere, -unlefs fhe herfeif is injured, or her property or rights are affeCted ; and even theni individuals'
cannot a&t. The injury muft be redreffed by the government in the way of negociation or war. What was the
conduit of our goverriment in fuch a cafe ? It firft chofe
to negociate, and then to prepare for war. At the time
the negociation was begun, all the injurious decrees were
in force, full in the vkew of the legiflature, who autho-

rized certain meafures of hoftility; but no citizen could

AUGUST, x8oi.
go one ftep beyond what was authorized. The liability
of the Amelia to condemnation in a French court of admiralty, created no right in captain Talbot to capture her,
even if that condernation was certain. But the fats
of this cafe do not warrant fuch a conclufion. The fa&
ftated is that "the fhip Amelia failed from Ca-utl, in
B
Bengalin the month of April, 1799, loaded with a car" go of the produd and manufa6lory of that coun!ry."
What country ? Bengal; but Bengal is not ftatd to be
one of the poffeffions of England. Not long fince the
province of Bengal was in poflhffion of fovereign princes;
but it does not appear how far they have been fubdued by
the Englifh. It is. true that the libel fp~aks of Calcutta as
being an Englifli port in the Eaft-Indies, but it does not
follow that the whole country of Bengal has been fubjae'ed to the Britifh power. Befides it is not the port
rom whence the veffel fails which taints the cargo, bfit
its quality, as being the produdion of an Englifh poffeffion. Hence it does not appear that the Amelia was liable to condemnation under the decree of i8th January,
1798, and we cannot prefume that ihe would have been
condemned. The French captors did not pretend fhe was
liable ufider that decree, but fent her in to be judged according to the laws of war; that is, according to the law of
hations as applicable to a flate of war; and there being
no fat Rated to the contrary, we are to fuppofe that file
would have been fo judged, and not otherwife. To have
interfered on our part to prevent this would have been a
juft caufe of hoftili'ies againft us. No citizen ought to
be allowed to come into our courts to claim a reward fo
an adt which hazards the peace of the country.
If benefit be the criterion of falvage, then the greater
the fervice, the greater ought to be the falvage. But if
the confirudtion, given by the oppofite coufel, to the ad
of 2d March, 799, be corred, then the-fame falvage is
due for the re-capture of a clear neutral, as of a belligerent. And yet in common wars no falvage at all is due for
the re-capture of a neutral.
Every neutral nati6n has a right to choofe her own
manner of redrets. We-have no right to interfere, or to
decide how far her veffels are liable to condemnation under French decrees. She may be willing to truft to ie
C

TALBOT
v'.
SPEMA'4.

--v-'

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALiOT

IV.
SEEMAN.

"Y

chances of acquittal or indemnification. We have no,
right to legiflate upon the property of a foreign independent nation, and to fay that we will, whether youl
confent or not, refcue your veffels from the French, .and
then make you pay us. falvage.

Vittel. B.

2.

ch. I. §. 7 -

p. i 23. If an aa, intended folely for my benefit, is advfiitageous to another, I am not entitled to reward. 2
Rob. 23, 24. (The Jrheid.) In order to ground a claim

of falvage, the danger of the property muff have been
not hypothetical, but abfolute, . not diftant and uncertain,
but immediate and imminent: the ad of faving, muff
have been done with that fole int-ent, and muff have beeui
attended with labour, lofs, expenfe or hazard to the
falvor. The Amelia was taken by captain Tabot, and
libelled as a French veffel; his objed was not to fave a
neufral, but to capture a belligerent- Under fuch a
rnifake he might have a right to examine her further,
but the moment fhe proved to be neutral property he
ought to have releafed her. His miftake can be no ground
for a claim of falvage. It is a mere juftification of an
a6l of force, and as fuch may fave him from the payment of damages and cofts. In this cafe there was no
danger to the property, no trouble in faving it, nor any
intention toL benefit the owners. In Beawes Lt'x. mer.
vol. x. p. 158, it is faid'that 'to fupport a claim of falvage, the veffel mutt be in evident hazard, and muff be
faved by means ufed with- that fole view.
The owner was a eitizen of an independent nation,
and ought to have had his ele&ion. Where is the law
or the authority that allows .falvage to one belligerent
taking from another the property of a neutral ? By the
Rate of' the cafe this veffel was'nettral as to all the belligerent powers. If the captor had applied for her, fhe
muff have been given up, upon the authority of the cafe
of Glafs.and Gibbs, 3 Del. 6. without any compenfation

for re-capture. Among the cafes cited, the only one againft
us is

2

Rob. 246. (The Wt'ar Onrkan.) In that cafe fir Wil-

.liarn Scott lays, that " lately" it has been the pratice of
his court to give falvage on re-capture of neutral property out of the hands of the French; but that fu(h is
not the modern prartice of the law of nations and upon this plain principle, that the liberation of a clear neuti'al from the hand of the enemy, is no eflential fervice
rendered to him ; in as much as that fame enemy wouldbe

AUGUST, t8oz.

19

compelled by the tribunals of his own country, after he
had carried the neutral into port, to releafe him with
cofts and damages for the injurious feizure and detention.
But in that very cae, however, we fee that he might
thortly change his courfe of decifions on that fubj'e, fo
that very probably, had that cafe been decided in the
next term, it would have been decided differently. No
judge has a right to decide upon the departure of other
nations from the law of nations, whatever evidence of
fuch departure he may poflhfU. There wi:i be a variance
in the decifions of the lower courts; it fhould, therefore,
be put upon fuch a footing as to make it clear and plain
to all the judges of the inferior courts, This decifion of
fir Willham Scott is a creature of his own, which he
himfelf promifes to change when the fituation of affairs
will allow.
Sir William Scott gives faivage expTefsly on the ground
of fervice rendered, on account of the kind of hoftiity
which France exercifed tbwards neutrals. But in this
cafe the ftatement of fa&s excludes, the idea of hoftility
between France and Hamburgh. The law of nations
gave no right to re-capture. The authority under the
a&s of congrefs muff be conftied firi&ly, and confined
to their exprefs provifions. Neither the executive, nor
individuals, 'noi the courts have a right to alter them.
So far as war is not authorized by congrefs there is
peace. It was not contemplated by any a& of congrefs
that our veffels fhould capture llamburgh veffels. .The
mifchief to be remedied by the ac of May was that the
fmall armed veffels of France were hovering on our coafts
and taking our veffels almoft in our ports. The a& of
congrefs has completely met the evil, by authorizing the
capture of fuch French veffels as had taken, or were
found hovering for the purpofe of taking our veflels.
This a&, therefore, does not authorize the capture of a
Hamburgh veffeL There is no law which authorizes a
capture for two purpofes, viz. to be condemned as a
French veflel or to be fubjeaed to falvage as a neutral.
The Amelia was not navigating under the authority; or
pretended authority of France. She was engaged in a
lawful trade. But if the French took poffcffion of her
under fufpicion of uxilawful trade, that gave us no au-

TALBOT

',.
SEEMAN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT

IV.
Svi:

AN.

thority to take her from the poffeffion of France, the property, under the law of nations, not being changed.

The taking being unlawful can fupport no claim of falvage.
The a& of July, 1798, authorizes only the capture
of armed French veffels, and confines the cafes of recapture to the fhips or goods of citizens or refidents of
the United States. The capture can only be juftified by
the doubtful charader of the veffel, and as foon as that
was known to be neutral, capt. Talbot ought to have xlifmiffed her; the detention afterwards was unlawful and
will not juftify a decree for falvage. This veffel, it is
true, might have been ufed to diftrefs our commerce, and
this might poffibly be an excufe for detaining her, of
even diftmantling her, but will not entitle him to falvage.
If this veffel was lawful prize to France, then France
has a claim for indemnity; but as fhe has made no claim
-we muff prefume the veffel would have been reftored by
her to the owners.
The ad of congrefs of March 2, 1799, upon which
the counfel for the libellant rely, does not contemplate a
cafe like the prefent. That is a permanent law, not made
for the prefent war only, but intended to apply to all
future wars. It could not therefore intend to give falvage on the recapture of a neutral from a belligerent,
whichis not given by the law of nations, and which, it
is allowed on all hands, is given this war, for the firft
ime, only on account of the condud of France towards
neutrals, and will ceafe when that condudt fliall be altered. Befides, it would give the fame reward for taking
the property of a neutral out .of the hand of his friend,
as out of the hand of his enemy. The word " enemy"
in the 7 th fedion of that ad, means the enemy of us
and our ally whbfe veffel is re-captured by our armed veffels-and not 'our enemy who is the friend of our ally.
If then this is not a flatutory cafe of falvage, we muft
recur to the queftion of benefit. In the court below
they relied wholly on the adt of congrefs. Not a word
was lIaid refpeffing the'fervice rendered. Let us then
confider the claim of quantum meruit. To fupport this,
there muff be,

AUGUST, t86'.
i. A lawful confideration, and

TALISOT

2. A contraa exprefs or implied.

SEEMAN.

IV.

To make the confideration lawful, it muft be permit.ted by law; afortiori it muff not be contrary to law.
It is not authorized by our law to take the property of
a neutral out of the poffellion of his friend, and it is in
direa oppofition to policy, as it tends to commit* the
peace of the country.
It is not alledged that there was any exprefs contra&;
and a contrat cannot be implied, becaufe the intent with
which fhe was taken, viz. to be condemned as a French
armed veffel, excludes the idea. Nor can an implied contraa be raifed on the retaining her, becaufe that was a
fRate of durefs, which cannot be made the ground of a
reward.
But if this cafe is to be confidered upon a quantum
meruit, then the amount of falvage muff depend upon
the danger and the exertion. i. Rob. Sh
x. (Tbe St.
Bernardo,) and x. Rob. 240. (Te Two Friends.) It is
faid that in cafes of unauthorized capture or re-capture,
the property goes to the crown; 2. Rob.i 45' (f'Ie.
Princefa,) and it is fometimes referred to the court to
fix the reward of the captors. It follows then that the
property goes to the government, and they alone can fix
the reward. But our code gives no right to falvage in
this cafe, nor does the fRite of hoffilities between the
two countries, as difelofed on the record, juftify it.
But if the decree, and the notoriety of the mifcondu't
of France, are to be admitted to prove a benefit confqrred, who can fay it was worth 94,0oo dollars ; the half
of the grofs amount of fales of the thip and cargo?
Neither the fervice rendered, the danger to the property,
nor the exertion in faving it, can juftify fo enormous a
reward.
The decree of France might be only in terrorem, and
fo no danger. If the Amelia was not liable to condemnation in the French courts, then no fervice was rendered, and confequently no falvage ought to be dllowed.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALSor
.V.

But if fhe was liable to condemnation, then the re.
capture is a violation of the rights of France.

SEEIMAN.
'If

France violates the laws of nations, it is no juftification of a violation of them on our part. An illegal
power to take, given by France to her,cruizers, does not.
authorize us to re-take.
In the cafe of Bafs v. Tingey, Feb. term, 8oo, in the
.fureme court of the United States, the reafoning of the
court feems to admit that the af of 2d March, 1799,
will not apply, in the prefent flate of hoftilities, to recaptures of the veffels of nations'in amity with the United
States, unlefs the owners are refidents of the United
.States; becaufe there could be no lawful re-capture of a
neutral from the hand of a belligerent.
•udge Moore, in delivering his opinion in that cafe fays,
"It is however more particularly urged, that the word
" enemy" can not be applied to the French,; becaufe the
" feftion, in which it is ufed, is confined to fuch a ftate
" of war, as would authorize a re-capture of property be" longing to a nation in amity with the United States, and
" fuch a flate Of wuar does not ex/ii between America and
" France. A number of books have been cited to furnifh
"a gloffary on the word eneiny ; yet, our fituation is fo
" extraordinary, that I doubt whether a parallel cafe
' can be traced in the hiftory of nations.
But if words
" are the reprefentatives of ideas, let me aik by what
" other word th. idea of the relative fituation of America
"and
France could be commuhicated, than by that of
"Itoo#ility or -ar ? And how can the charaders of the
4f parties engaged in hoftility or war, be otherwife de4( fcribed than by the denomination of . enemies." It is
"9 for the honor and dignity'of both nations, therefore,
" that they fhould be called enemies ; for it is by that
cc defcription alone, that either could juftify or excufe, the
4fcene of bloodfled, depredation and confifcation, which
" has unhappily occurred ; and, furely, congrefs could
" only employ the language of the a41 of June 13,J 798,
,c towards a nation-whom fhe confidered as an enemy."
" Nor does it follow that the ad of March, 1799, is
c to have no operation, becaufe all the cafes in 'which it

AUGUST,..x8oi.
0 might operate, are not in exyi/ence at the time of paflling
cafe
c it. During the prefent hoffilities, it affe&s the
,t of re-captured property belonging to our own citizens,
" and iip the even't of a future war it might alfo be ap" plied to the cafe of re-captured property belonging to
" a nation in amity 'with the United States.

• And in the fame cafe, Judge Wafhington obierved,
"that hoftilities may fubfift between two nations, more
" confined in its nature and extent ; being limited as to
places, perfons and things; and this is more properly
' termed imperfet- war ; becaufe not foemn, and becaufe
" thofe who are authorized to commit hoflilities, ai

under
"Ifperial authority, an( can go no further than to the extent
"of their commj/ion." And again he fays, , It has like" wife been faid that the 7 th fe6Uon of the a t of March,
*' 1799, embraces cafes which according to pre-exifting
" laws, could not then take place, becaufe no authority
" had been given. to re-capture friendly veffels from the
" French, and this argument was ftrongly and forcibly
" preffed.
"

But becaufe every cafe provided for by this law
was

" not then exifling, it does not follow that the law fhould

"not operate upon fuch as did exift, and- upon the rf/
" whenever they flould arife.

It is a permanent law em-

- bracing a variety of fubjels ; not made in relation to
" the prefent war With France only, but in relation to
c any future war with her, or with any other nation. It
" might then very properly allow falvage for re-capturing
" of American veffels from France, which had previoufly
" been authorized by law, though it could not immedi" ately apply to the veffels of friends ; and whenever fuch
" a war fhould exift between the United States and France,
" or anyother nation, as, according to the law of nations,
4 or fpecial authority, wouldjula5 the re-captureoffriend." ly v ffh, it might on, that event, with fimilar propriety,

" apply to them ; which furnifles, I think, the true con-"firudtion of the a&t."
"The

opinion which I delivered at New-York, in

( Talbot v. Seeman, was, that although an American vef"
"

fel could not juftify the taking of a neutral veffel from
the French, becaufe neither the fort of war that fub-

TALBOT

V..

SEMAN.

SUPREME COURT 15.
TALBQT
V.
Sr

SEMA ,

.

"ifted, nor the fpecial commiffion under which the American .ced, authorized the proceeding, yet that the
7 th fedion of the aa of 1799, applied to re-captures
9"from France, as an enemy, in all cafes authorized by con.
"6grefs. And op both points my opinion remains unc fhaken ; or rather has been confirmed by, the very able
"

"

difcuffion which the fubjed has lately undergone in

"

this court, on the appeal from my decree."*

Similar fentiments were alfo expreffed by Judge Chafe
and Judge Paterfon in the fame cafe. From thefe opinions it feems clearly to refult that the adl of March 2d
1799, can not be the rule of falvage in this cafe.
On the part of the libellant it was flated in reply, as to

the admiffibility, of the difpatches from the American envoys, and the French arret of i8th January, 1798, that
courts of admiralty will always take notice of fuch laws
of foreign countries as go to modify or change the law
of nations, and a e not bound bythe fame rules of evidence, as courts of common law. i. Dal.364. Loft. 63 .
Doug. 619. 622. 649. 65o. 554. The oppofite counfel

have cited and relied on Robertfon's reports to fhew what
was the ancient law of France, and furely we have as
good a right to cite the fame book to fhew what is the
prefent law of France. In J Rob. 288. (The Maria,)
this arret of France is cited and argued upon by the jqdge.
The cafes cited by the oppofite counfel to fhew that
foreign laws muil be proved as fafs, are all cafes at common law, or relate to the mere municipal laws of a foreign
country; and are not fuch as go to modify or explain the
law of nations, as that country has adopted it.
The cafe in P. Williams refers to a municipal law
which had no connedion with the law of nations. The
fame obfervation applies to the cafes from 6 Mod. and 2
Salk. No cafe can be produced where a law of a foreign
country, authenticated as this is, by an a& of the legiflature of our country, has been refufed to be confidered by
a court.
This care of Talbot v, Scemin, was argued once before, in this court,
at Philadelphia.

AUGUST,

1 0 1;

As to the objection that the cargo does not appear to be
the produalon of England or her poffeffions, becaufe there
is no evidence that the whole of the province of Bengal
has been fubjefed to the dominion of England ; it may
be fufficient to obferve, that the libel and anfwer admit
Calcutta to be an Englifh port, and the cafe ftated fays,
the veffel failed from Calcutta in Bengal, loaded with a
cargo of the produd and manufactory of that country. It
being admitted'that Calcutta is an Englifh port, and that
the cargo was the produdion of that country, it follows,
unlefs the contrary is clearly fhewn in eiidence, that the
cargo was the produ& of an Englifh poffeffion.
It is faid that there is no evidence that France carried
her ,unjuft decrees into execution, and that they might
only be enaded in terrorem. But the fa& is notorious to
all the world. Congrefs have exprefsly declared it in the
preambles of their afs. The whole fyftem of hoftility
is founded upon it, and can be juftified on no other
ground. They have further declared it by ordering the
difpatches to be publifhed and diftributed among the citizens .of the United States, for their information. It
,would be ftrange if this court fitting here as a court of
the law of nations to try a caufe in which all the word
are parties, Ihould be the only perfons in the world
ignorant of the faa.
The general principle is admitted that falvage is not
due for the re-capture of a neutral from a belligerent,
and for this reafon that by the law of nations the neutral
would be refored by the captor with damages and cofis.
But qe/ante ratione, cf//at lex. And it follows by powerful
inference that if the captor would not have reftored the
neutral with damages and cofts, falvage ought to be allowed. To bring the Amelia within this inference, it is
only necefary to (hew that fhe would not have been reRored with damages and cofts. If the court fhotild take
iifto confideration the arret of, x 8th January, 1798, and
the fa& that the cargo was the produfion of an Englifh
poffeflion, there is. no doubt but, inftead of being reftored
with damages and cofts, fhe would have been condemned
and totally loft to the owners. Is no fahage due for fa
certain and fo fignal a benefit?

D

TaLBOT

SEMAN.

_

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TAtBHo?

s.E^A,

It is faid that unlefs falvage is exprefsly givent by the
al of congrefs, it can only be claimed upon a contrad,
either exprefs, or implied. This is not the cafe. The
claim of falvage upon re-capture never is fuppofed to
arife ex contra/tu. It is given as a reward for the benefit
received, and where there is no exprefs flatute upon the
fibjeft, the amount is to be regulated, not by the 1bour
or hazard of the ve-captor, nor by hisintention.to confer
a benefit, but by the fuppofid amount which the owner
would have been willing to give for the refeue of his
property. Woodefin, 423. In I Rok. 234. 235. (Tff e Timu
.Friends,) the rule of falvage on refcue is faid to be q*anturn tneruit. And in the fame cafe, p. 232, fir W. Scoti
fays, "It has been flightly queftioned in the a& of court,
- \which contains the expofition of fa&s given by both
4Cparties) whether there was fiach a Riate of hoftilities be.
it tween America and France as to raife a title of falvage
"for American goods retaken from the French. But
" this point has not been purfued in argument ; and in-.
" deed I hould wonder if it had, after the determinations
"9of this court, which hare in various intlances, decreed
se falvage in fimilar cafes. It is not for me to fay wheit thor America is at war with France, or not; but the
- condua of France towards America has been fuch de
".fai'o, as to induce American owners to acknowledge
" the fervices by which they have recovered their Thips
" and cargoes out of the hands of French cruizers by
o' force of arms."
In the'cafe of Bas & Tingey, the queftion was not argued, whether falvage could be claimed upon the re-capture of a neutral, on the ground of benefit rendered ; and
therefore the opinion of the court in that cafe does not
militate with our claim.
Auguft xith. Marfb&dI, Ckief Yuflice, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to a decree of the circuit court
for the diftri& of New-York, by which the decree of
the diftri& court of that flte, reftoring the flhip Amelia
,to her owner on the payment of one-half for falvage, was,
reverfed, and a decree rendered, direffing the rettoration
of the veffel without falvage.

AUGUST,

Sox.

The fa&s agreed by the pasties, and the pleadings in
the Ganfe, pmefent the following cafe:
The fhip Amelia failed from Calcutta in Bengal, in
April. 1799, loaded with a cargo of the produdf and manufacftory of that country, and was bound to Hamburgh.
On the 6th September fhe was captured by the French
xiational corvette La Diligente, commanded by L. J. Dubois, who took out the captain, part of the crew, and
moft of the papers of the Amelia, and putting a prize
snafter and French failors on board her, ordered her to
St. Domingo to be judged according to the laws of war.
On the i 5th of September (he was re-captured by captain Talbot, commander of the Conftitution, who ordered
ker iat New-York for adjudication.
At the time of the re-capture, the Amelia had eight
iron cannon, and eight wooden guns, with which ibe left
Calcutta. From the fhips papers, and other teftimony,
it.
appeaied that ffie was the property of Chapeau Rouge,
a Citizen and merchant of Hamburgh ; and it was conceded by the council below, that France and Hamburgh
were not in a ftate of hoftility with each other, and that
Hamhurgh was to be confidered as neutral between the
prefent belligerent powers.
The diftrift court of New-York, before whom the
caufg¢ firft
came, decreed one-half of the grofs amount of
the thip and cargo as falvage to the re-captors. The
circuit court of New-York reverfed this decree, from
which reverfal, the re-captors appealed to this court.
The Amelia was libelled as a French veffel, and the
libellant prays that the may be condemned as prize; or,
if
refored to any perfon entitled to her as the former own, -that fuch reftoration ihould be made on paying falvage. The. claim aid aniwer of Hans Frederick Seeman,
difclofeg the. neutral charakter of the veellI, and claims
her.on behalf of the owners.
The quettions growing out of thefe faa~s, and to be de..

cided by the court, are-

TALBST

SEMA.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBoT
SEEMAN.
S

A

Is, captain Talbot, the plaittiff in error, entitled to any,
and if to any, to what falvage in the' cafe Which has been
flated ?

Salvage is a compenfation for adual fervice rendered
to the property charged with it.
It is demandable of right for veffels faved from-pirates,
or from the enemy.
in order, however, to fupport the demand, two circumftances muff concur.
ft. The taking muff he lawful.
2d. There muff be a meritorious fervice rendered to
the re-captured.

i t. The taking muff be lawful-for no claim can be
maintained in.a court of juftice, founded on~an ad in itfelttortious. On a re-6apture, therefore, made by-a neutral power, no claim for falvage can 2rife, becaufe the
ad of re-taking is a hoftile ad, not juftified by the fituation of the nation to which the veffel making the re-capture belongs; in relation to that from the poffeffion of
which fuch re-captured vefrel was taken. The degree
of fervice rendered the refcued veffel is precifely the fame
as if it had been rendered by a belligerent;. yet the rights
accruing to the re'captor are not the fame, becaufe no
right can accrue from an ad in itfelf unlawful.
In order then to decide on the right of-captain Talbot it
becomes neceffary to examine the relative fituation of the'
United States and France at the date of the re-capture
The whole powers of war being, by the conftitution
of the United States, vefted in congrefs, the a&s of that
body can alone be reforted to as our guides in this enquiry.' It is not denied, nor in the courfe of the argument
has it been denied, that congrefs may authorize general
hoililities, in which cafe the .general laws of war apply
to ohr fituation ;'or partial hoftilities, in which cafe the
laws of war, fo far as they aCtually aiply to our fituation,
muff be noticed.

AUGUST, i8oi.
To determine the real fituation of America in regard
to France, the ads of congrefs are to be infpeded.
The firft a& on this fubje& paffed on the 28th of May,
1798, and is entitled " An ad more effedually to proteft
the commerce and coafts of the United States."
This adl authorizes any armed veffel of the United
States to cpture any armed veffel failing under the authority, or pretence of authority, of the republic of France,
which ihall have: committed depredations on veffelsbelong-,
ing to the citizens of thb, United States, or which fhall be
found hovering on the coafts for the purpofe of committing fuch depredations. It alfo authorizes the ie-capture of
vfels belonging to the citizens of the United States.
On the 25th of June, 1798, an ad was paffed "to authorize the tefence of the merchant veffels of the United
States'againft French depredations."
This ad empowers merchant veffels, ownea. wholly
by citizens of the United States, to defend themfelves
agaillft aily attack which may be made on them by'the
commander or crew of any armed veffel failing under
French colours, or ading, or pretending to a&, by or urider the authority of the irrench republic; and to capture
any fuch veffel. This a& alfo authorizes the re capture
of.merchant veffels belonging to the citizens of the United
States. By the 2d fedion, fuch armed veffel is to be
brought in and condemned for the ufe of the owners and
captors.
By the fame fe&ion, re-captured veffels belonging to
the -citizens of the United States, are to be reflored, they
paying for falvage not lefs than one-eighth nor .more than
one-half of the true value of fuch veffel and cargo.
On the 28th of June, an ad paffed" in addition to the
adft more efethually to prote& the commerce and coafts
of the United States."
This authorizes the condemnation of veffels brought in
under the firft a&,with their cargoes, excepting only from
fuch condemnation the goods of any citizen or perfon re-

TALIOT
W.
699[MAN.

SUPREME cUtRT V. S.
TAW*

4fdent wi-thin the United Sttes, which iball hnvebee

e_-

fore takep by the crew o (ech .eaptured veiiW.
The feeond fedion peovides that whenever any veffl or
goods the property of any citizen of the United ,Stasxaor
perfon reftdent therein, fhafl be re~captured, the fame 4hal
be reftored, he paying for falvage one-eighth part of the
vahle, free from all deduaiono.
On the 9 th of July another law was euatred " turthew

to protec tie Conamc€le of the United State&."

This aa authorizes the public ared rviels.df d
United Stats to take any armed French Ve&1 found on
the high frai.
It alfo direds fuch armed veffel, with her
apparel, guns, &c. and the goods and effeffs found on
board, being French property, to,be condcmwed asar-

feited.
The fame power of capture is extended to private arm-

d vel*h.
The 6th fedition oroyides, tdat the vef'el w goods of
"any citizen of the United. States, or perfon refiding t-em,
in, fhall be reltored, an paying for falvage not ;fs tha-a
one eighth, nor more than one half, of the vaht :of f44
re-capture, without any dedufion.
The 7th fedion of the ad for the government of the
wavy, pafTed the 2d of March, 7.99, ena&.s, "That
for the fhips or goods belonging to the citizens of the

United States, or to the citizens or fubjefs of any nation
in amity with theUnited States, if re-takee within twonty-four hourG, the owners are to allow one eighth part of
the 'whole value for falvage," and if they have remained

above ninety.fix hnrs in pilffeffim of tlw enemy,. oa
half is to be allowed.
On the 3d of March ifoo, congrefs paACd "-an 44
providing for falvage in cafes of re-capture."
Thio law regulates the faWrage to be paid "when any
reWels or goods, which fhall be taken as prize as aforcfaid,
fhall appear to have before belonged to,an..perfbn or per,

forsi jienmnently rcfidetl wii~n the tevisort and uid~r
the-protedion-o fay foreign rpince, go*ernmvnt or Rate,
in amity with the United States, and to have been taken
by an enemy of the United 8tates, or by ,athrity, or
pretence of authority from any prince, government, of
Rate, alainft whith. the Uited States have authoifed,
or lh, authoifedefence or reprifals."
Thefe are the laws of the United States, which define
their fituation in regard to France, and which regulate
falvage to accrue on re-captures made in contequence of
that fitation.
A neutral armed vel'el which has been otured, god
which is commanded and manned by Frenchmen, wheiler found cruiring on the high fens, or failing die&iy
for a French port, does not come within the defeription
of thofe which the laws authorife an American (hip of
war to eaptt'e, unlefs fe be confidered quo~d hoe as
i French veffeL
Very little doubt can be entertained but that a veffel
thus circumftanced, encountering an American unarmed

merchantman, or one which thould be armed, but of it.
ferior force, would as readily capture fuch merchantmati
as if the had failed immediately from the ports of France,'
One dire& and declared obje& of the war then, which
was the proteaion of the American commerce, would
as certainly require the capture of fuch a veffel as of
others more determinately fpecified. But the right4 of i
sieutral veffel, which the government of the United-States
cannot be confidered as having difregarded, here intervene ; and the veffel certainly is not, corre&ly fpeaking,
a French veffel.
If the Amelia was not, on the i th September 1799,
a French veffel withir, the deficription of the aa of con.,
grefs, could her capture be lawful ?'
It is, I believe, a univerfal principle, which applies to
thofe engaged in a partial, as well as thofe engaged in
a general war, that where there is probable caufe to believe thc veqfel met with at fia, is in the cpndition of one

TAts#47

"-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT

IV.

SEEMAN

liable to capture, it is lawful to take her, and fubje t her
to the examination a~nd adjudication of the courts.
The Amelia was an armed veffel commanded and manned by Frenchmen. It does not appear that there was
evidence on board to afcertain her charater. It is not
then to be queftioned, but that there was probable caufe
to bring her in for adjudication.
The re-capture then was lawful.
But it has been infifted that this re-capture was only
lawful in confequence of the doubtful chAraler of the
Amelia, and that no right of falvage can accrue from an
a which was founded in miftake, and which is only juftified by the difficulty of avoiding error) arifing from the
doubtful icircumftances of the cafe.
The opinion of the court is, that had the charader
of the Amelia been completely afcertained by capt. Talbot, yet as fhe was an armed vcffel under French authority,
and in a condition'to annoy the American commerce; it
was his duty to render her incapable, of mifchief.--T
have taken out the' arms of the crew, was as little a~thorized by the conftru&ion of the ad of congrefs contended for by the claimants, as to have taken poffeffion, of the
veffel herfelf.
It has, I believe, been pradifed in the courfe of the
prefent war, and if not, is certainly Oery pradicable, to
man a prize and cruife with her for a co nfidera~le time
without fending her in for condemnation. The property
of fuch veffel would not, ftriffly fpea king, be changed fo
ns to become a French veffel, and yet it would probably
have been a great departure from the real intent of con.grefs, to have permitted fuch vefiel to cruife unmolefted.
An armed fhip under thefe circumftances might have attacked one of the public veffels of the United States. The
ads which have been recited exprefsly authorife the capture of fuch veffel fo commencing hoftilities, by a private
armed fhip, but not by one belonging iothe public, To
fuppofe that a capture would in one cafe be lawful, and
in the other unlawful; or to fuppofe that even ini the
limited ftate of hofilities in which we were placed, two

AUGUST, i8ot.
veffels armed and manned by the enemy, and equally
cruizing on American commerce, might the one be lawfully captured, while the other, though an aaual affailant,
could not, or if captured, that the aLt could only be juftifled from.the probable caufe of capture furniihed by appearances ; would be to attribute a capricioufnefs to our
legiflation on the fubje&t of war, which can only be proper
when inevitable.
There muff then be incidents growing out of thofe aCts
of hoftility fpecifically authorifed, which a fair conftruclion of the ads will authorize likewife.
This was obvioufly the fenfe of congrefs.
If by the laws of congrefs on this fubje",thatbody flall
appear to have legiflated upon a perfed convietion that
the ftate of war in which this country was placed, was
fuch as to authorize re-captures generallyfrom theenemy;
if one part of the fyftem fhall be manifefly founded on.
this conftrudion of the other part, it would have confiderable weight in rendering certain what might before
have been doubtful.
Upon a critical inveftigation of the affs of congrefs it

will appear, that the right of re-capture is exprefsly
given in no fingle initance, but that of a veffel or goods
belonging io a citizen of the United States.
It will alfo appear that the quantum of falvage is tegulated, as'if the right to it exifed previous to the regulation.

Although no right of re-capture is given in terms for
the veffels and goods belonging to perfons refiding within
the United States not being citizens, yet an a&t, paffed
fo early as the 2Sth of June 1798, declares, that veffels
and goods of this defcription, when re- captured, Thall be
raftored on paying falvage ; thereby plainly indicating that
fuch re-capture was fufliciently warranted by law to be the
fwordation of a claim fot falvagd.

If the re-capture of teflels of one defeription, not exp'efsly autbmrined by the very ttams of the act of ceogrefs

E

'TALSOT
'v.

SP.MAN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT

vSEEMA.*

be yet a rightful ad, recognized by congrefs, as the funw-.
dation for a claim to falvage, which claim congrefs pro-.
ceeds to regulate, then it would feem that othere-cap-

tures from. the fame enemy are equally rightful;. and
where the claim they afford for falvage has no t ben re,
gulated by congrefs, fuch claim muft be determined by
the principles of general law.
In this fituatiori remained the re-captured veffels of any
other power alfo at war with France; until the aa of the
2d of March, 1799, which regulates the falvage demandable from them. Neither by that ad, nor by any previous.
ad, was a power given in terms, to re-capture fuch veffels.
But their re-capture was an incident which unavoidably
grew cut of the ifate of the war. On the capture of a
French veffel, having with her as a prize, the veffel of
fuch a power, the prize was inevitably re-captured. On
the idea that the re-capture was lawful and that it was a
foundation on which the right to falvage could ftand, the
legiflature in March 1799, declare. what the amount of
that falvage fhould be.
The expreffion of this adl is by no means explicit. If
it extends to neutrals then it governs in this cafe , if otherwife, the law refpedfing them ontinued frill
longer on the
fame ground with the law refpeding a belligerent, prior
to the paffage of the ad of the 2d of k4arch, 1799. Thus
itcontinued until the 3 d of March 80oo, when the legiflature regulated the falvage to be paid by neutrals, re-captured from a power againif which the United States have
authorized defence. or reprifals.
This ad having paffed fubfequent to the re-capture of'
the -Amelia, can certainly not affed that cafe as to the
quantity of falvage, or give a right to falvage which did
not exilt before. But.it manifefts, in like manner with
the laws already commented on, the fyftem which congrefs confidered itfelf as having eft~blifhed. This ad was
paffed at a time when no additional hoftility againft France
could have been contemplated. It was only defigned to
keep up the defenfive .fyftem which had before been
formed, andwhich it was deemed neceffaryto continue, till
the negotiation then pending fhould have a pacific termination. Accordingly there is no expreffion in the adt ex-

AUGUST, x8oi.

35

tending the power of re-capture, or giving it in the cafe of
neutrals. This power is fuppofed to exifi as an incident
growing out of the fiate of war, and the right to falvage
produced by that ppwer is regulated in the a&.
In cafe of a re-capture fubfequent to the aCt, no doubt
could be entertained, but that falvage, according to its
terms, would be demandable. Yet there is not a fyllable
in it which would warrant an idea that the right of recapture was extended by it, or did not exift before.
It muf then have exifted from the paffage of the laws,
which commenced a general refiftance to the aggreffions
we had fo long experienced and fubmitted -to.
It is not unworthy of notice that the firft regulation
of the right ofd falvage in the cafe of a re-capture, not exprefsly enumerated among the fpecified ads. of hoftility
warranted by the law, is to be found in one of thofe a&s
which jconftitute a part of the very fyftem of defence determined on by congrefs, and is the firft which fubjefs to
condemnation the prizes made by our public ihips of
war.
It has not efcaped the confideration of the court that
a legiflative ad, founded on a miftaken opinion of what
was law, does not change the"adualftate of the law as
to pre-exifting cafes.
This principle is not thaken by the opinion now given.
The court goes no further than to ufe the provifions
in one of feveral adts forming a general. fyftem, as explanatory of other parts of the fame fyftem ;and this appears
to be in obedience to the beft eftablifhed rules of expofition, and to be neceffary to a found conftrudion of the
law.
An objedion was made to the claim of falvage by one
of the counfel for the defendant in error, unconneded
with the ads of congrefs, and which it is proper here to
notice.
He ftates that to give title to falvage the means ufed
muft not. only have produced the benefit, but muft have

TALBOT

I'V
SEEM 4 N.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT

IV.

been ufed with that fole view.
lex mercatoria 15 8.

For this he cites Beawes

SE EMA N.

The principle is applied by Beawes to the fingle cafe
of a veffel faved at fea by throwing overboard a part of
her cargo. In thac cafe the principle is unqueftionably
corre&, and in the cafe of a re-capture it is as unqueftion.
ably incorred. The re-captor is feldom actuated by the
fole view of faring the veffel, and in no cafe of the fort
has the enquiry ever been made.
It is then the opinion of the court on a confideration
of the ads of congrefs, and of the circumftances of the
cafe, that the re-capture of the Amelia was lawful, and
tha, if the claim to falvage be in. other refpe&s well
founded, there is nothing to defeat it in the charakder of
the original taking.
It becomes then neceirary to enquire2d. Whether there has been fuch a meritorious fervice
rendered to the re-captured as entitles the re-captor to
falvage.
The Amelia was a neutral fhip, captured by a French
cruizer, land re-captured while on her way to a French
port, to be adjudged according to the laws of war.
It is Rated to be the fettled doeqrine of the law of nafions, that a neutral veffel captured by a belligerent is to
be difcharged without paying falvage : and for this feveral
authorities- have been quoted, and many more might certainly be cited, That fuch has been a general rule is not
to be queftioned. As little is it to be queftioned that
this rule is founded exclufively on the fuppofed fafety of
the neutral. It is exprefsly Rated in the cafe of the lar
.Otjkan, cited from Robinfon's reports,' to be founded on
this plain principle, 4c that the liberation of a clear neutral from the hand of the enemy, is no effential fervice
'rendered to him, in as much as that the fame enemy would
be compelled by the tribunals of hi's own country after
he had carried the neutral into port, to releafe him with
cofts and damages for the injurious'feizure and detention." It is not unfrequent to confider and fpeak of a

AUGUST, i8oz.
regular prakice under a rule, as itfelf forming a rule. A
regular courfe of decifions on the text of the law, conftitutes a rule of conifrudion by which that text is to be applied to all fimilar cafes: But alter the text, and the rule
no longer governs. So in the cafe of falvage. The general principle is, that falvage is only payable where a
meritorious fervice has been rendered. In the application
of this principle, it has been decided that neutrals carried
inby a belligerent for examination, being in no danger,
receive no benefit from recapture ; and ought not therefore to pay falvage.
The-principle is that without benefit, falvage is not
payable: and it is merely a confequence from this principle, which exempts re-captured neutrals from its payment. But let a nation change its laws and its prafice
on this fubjeCkt ; let its legiflation be fuch as to fubjea to
condemnation all neutrals captured by its cruizers, and
who will fay that no benefit is conferred by a re-capture?
In fuch a courfe of things the ftate of the neutral is completely changed. So far from being fafe, he is in as
much danger of condemnation as if captured by his own
declarid enemy. A feries of decifions then, and of rules
founded on his fuppofed fafety, no longer apply. Only
thofe rules are applicable, which regulate a fituation of
ailual danger. This is not, as it has been termed, a
change of principle, but a prefervation of principle by a
praffical application of it according to the original fubitantial good fenfe of the rule.
It becomes then neceffary to enquire whether the laws
of France were fuch as to have rendered the condemnation of the Amelia fo extremely probable, as to create a
cafe of fuch real danger, that her re-capture by captain
Talbot muft be confidered as a meritorious fervice entitling him to falvage.
To prove this the counfel for the plaintiff in error has
offered feveral decrees of the French government, and
efpecially one of the x8th of January, 1798.
Objeaions have been made to the reading of thefe decrees as being the laws of a foreign nation, and therefore fais, which like other faks, ought to have been

TALSOT
a.
SEEMAN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT

Iv.

proved, and to have formed a part of the cafe tated for
the confideration of the court.

SE EMA N.

Y

That the laws of a foreign nation, defigned only for
the diredion of its own affairs, are not to be noticed by
the courts of other countries, unlefs proved as fadts, and
that this court, with refpe& to fads, is limited to the
flatement made in the court below, cannot be qtieftioned.
The real and only queftion is whether the public laws of
Aforeign nation, on a fubjed of common concern to all
nations, promulgated by the governing powers of a
country, can be noticed as law by a court of admiralty
of that country, or muft be ftill further proved as a fad.
The negative of this pr6pofition has not been maintained in any of the authorities which have been adduced. On the contrary, feveral have been quoted, (and
fuch feems to have been the general pradice) in which,
the marine ordinances of a foreign nation are read as law
without being proved as fats. It has been faid that this
is done by confent: that it is a matter'of general convenience not to put parties to the trouble and expenfe of
proving permanent and well known laws which it'is in
their power to prove; and this opinion is countenanced
by the cafe cited from Douglas. If it be corredft, yet
this decree having been promulgated in the United States
as the law of Francei by the joint a of that department which is entrufted with foreign intercourfe, and of
that which is invefted with the powers of war, feems to
affume a charader of notoriety which renders it admiffible in our courts.
It is therefore the opinion of the court that the decree
ihould be read as an authenticated copy of a public law
of France interefting to all nations.
The decree ordains that "the charade" of veffels, relative to their quality of neuter or enemy, fhall be de" tcrmined by their cargo; in confequence, every veffel
"cfound at fea, loaded in whole or in part With merchan", dize the produdion of England or her poffeffions, thall
" be declared good prize,' whoever the owner of thefe
,goods or merchandize may be."
"

AUGUST,

8or.

39

This decree fubje&s to condemnation in the courts of
France. a neutral veffel laden, in whole or in part, with
articles the growth of England or any of its poffeffions.
A neutral thus circumfanced cannot be confidered as in
a ftate of fafety. His re-captor cannot be faid to have
rendered him no fervice. It cannot reafonably be contended that he ,would have been difcharged iii the ports
of the belligerent, with cofts and damages.
Let us then enquire whether this was the fituation of
the Amelia. The firft fac ftates her to have failed from
Calcutta in Bengal, in April, 1799, laden with a cargo of
the produc and manufaaory of that country. Here it
is contended that the whole pf Bengal may poflibly not
be in poffeffion of the Englifh, and therefore it does not
appear that the cargo was within the defcription of the
decree. But to this it has been anfwered, that in enquiring whether the Amelia was in danger or not this court
muft put itfelf in the place of a French court of admiralty, and determine as fuch court would have determined.
Doing this, there feems to be no reafon to doubt that the
cargo, without enquiring into the precife fituation of the
Britifh power in every part of Bengal, being prima facie
of the produ& and manufacture of a poffiffion of England, would have been fo confidered, urilefs the contrary could have been plainly fhewn.
The next fac relied on by the defendant in error is,
that the Amelia was fent to be adjudged according to thelaws of war, and from thence it is inferred that fhe coald
not have been judged according to the decree of the s8th
of January.
It is to be remembered that thefe are the orders of the
captor, and without a queftion, in the language of a.
French cruizer, a law of his own country furnifhing a
rule of conduc in time of war, will be fpoken of as one
of the laws of war.
But the third and fourth facts in the flatement admit
the Amelia, with her cargo, to have belonged to a citizen of Hamburgh, which city was not in a flate of hoflility with the republic of France, but was to be confidered as neutral between the thpu bellirerent powers.

TALBor

IV.
SEFMAN "

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TALBOT

IV.
SEEMAN. I

It has been contended that thefe fa&s not only do not
fhow the re-captured veffel to have been one on which
the decree could operate, but pofitively thow that the decree could not have affected her.
The whole fiatement taken together amounts to nothing more than that Hamburgh was a neutral city ; and
it is precifely againft neutrals that the decree is in terms
dire6aed. To prove, therefore, that the Amelia was a
neutral veffel, is to prove her within the very words of the
decree, and confequently to eftablifh the reality of her
danger.
Among the very elaborate arguments which have been
ufed in this cafe, there are fome which the court deem it
proper more particularly to notice.
It has been contended that this decree might have been
merely in terrorem ; that it might never have been executed ; and that being in oppofition to the law of nations,
the court ought to prefume it never would have been executed.
But the court cannot prefume the laws of any country
to have been en&ed in terrorem, nor that they will be
difregarded by its judicial authority. Their obligation on
their own courts muff be confidered as complete; and
without reforting either to public notoriety, or the declarations of our own lawson the fubje&, the decifions of
the French courts muff be adnitted to have conformed to
the rules prefcribed by their government.
It has been contended that France is an
nation, entitled to the benefits of the law
and further, that if ffie has violated them, we
violate them alfo, but ought to remonifrate
mifcondut.

independent
of nations
ought not to
againft fuch

Thefe pofitions have never been controverted ; but
they lead to a very different refult from that which they
have been relied on as producing.
The refpe&k due to France is totally unconne~ted with
the danger in which her laws had pl ced the Amelia; nor

AUGUST, x8oi.
is France -in any manner tobe affeaed by the decree this
court may pronounce. Her intereft in the veffel was
terminated by the re-capture, which was authorized by
the ftate of hoftility then fubfifting between the two na,tions. From that time it has: been a queftion only between the Amelia and the re-captor, with which France
has nothing to do.
It is true that a violation of the law of nations by one
power does not juftify its violation by another; but that
remonftrance is the proper courfe to be purfued, and this
is the courfe which has been purfued. America did femonihate, moft earneftly remonftrate to France againft
the injuries committed on her; but remonftrance having
failed, he appealed to a higher tribunal, and authorized
limitedhoftilities. This was not violating the law of nations, but conforming to it. In the courfe of thefe limited hoftilities the Amelia has been re-captured, and the en-:
quiry now is, not whether the condud of France would
juftify a departure from the law of nations, but what is
the real lawin the cafe. This depends on the danger from
which the has been faved.
- Much has been faid about the general condu& of France
and England on the feas, and it has been urged that the
courfe of the latter has been iffill more injurious than that
of the former. That is a confideration not to be taken
up in this caufe. Animadverfions on either, in the prefent cafe, would be confidered as. extremely uibecoming
the judges of this court, who have only to enquire what
was the real danger in which the laws of one of the
countries placed the Amelia, and from which (he has been
freed by her re-capture.
It has been contended that an illegal commiffion to take,
given by France, cannot authorize our veffels to re-take;
that we have no right by legiflation to grant falvage out of
the property of a citizen of IJamburgh, who mighthave
obje&ed to the condition of thefervice.
But it is not the authority given by the French governnient to capture neutrals, which is legalizing the re-capture, made by capt. Talbot, it is the flate of hoftiliiy between the two -nations which is confidered as having authorized that a&. The re-capture having been made lawfully, then the right to falvage, on general principles, de-

F

TALBOT

'V.

SEEMAN.

SUPREME COU RT U. S.
We cannot prefume this

TALdBT

pends on the fervice rendered.

SETMAN.

fervice to have been unacceptable to the Hamoiurgher, becaufe it has bettered his condition ; but a re-capture muff

V

always be made without confulting the re-captured. The
a& is one of the incidents of war, and is in itfelf only
offenfive as againit the enemy. The fubfequent fate of
the re-captured depends on the fervice he has received,
and on other circumftances.
To give a right to fal.age, it is faid there muff be A
contraft either exprefs or implied.
.Had Hamburgb been in a flate of declared war with
France, the re-captured veffels of that city would be admitted to be liable to pay falvage. If a contrail be neceflhry, from what circumftances would the law, in that
flat of things imply it ? Clearly from the benefit received., and the rifk incurred. If in the affual ifate of
things there was alfo benefit and rifk, then the fame circumftances concur, and they warrant the fame refult.
It is alfo urged that to maintain this right, the danger
ought not to be merely fpeculative, but muff be imminent
and the lofs certain.
Tkat a mere fpeculative danger will not be fufficient to
entitle a perfon to falvage is unqueftionably true. But
that the danger muft be fuch, that efeape from it by other
means, was inevitable, can noi be admitted.
In all the cafes ftated by the counfel for the defendant
in error, fafety by other means was poflible, though not
probable. The flames of a Uhip on fire might be extinA fliip
guifhed by the crew, or by a fudden/tempeff.
on the rocks might poffibly be got off by the aid of wind
and tides without affiftance from others. A veflel captured by an enemy might be feparated from her captor,
and if failors had been placed on board the prize, a thoufand accidents might poffibly deftroy them; or they might
even be blown by a florm into a port of the country to
which the prize vefill originally belonged.
It cannot therefore be neceffary that the lofs fhould be
inevitably certain, but it is neceffary that the danger ffiould

AUGUST, x8oh

4.

be real and imminent. It is believed to have been fo in
this cafe. The captured veffel was of fuch defcription
that the law by which fhe was to be tried, condemned
her as good prize. to the captor. Her danger then was
real and imminent. The fervice rendered her was an
effential fervice, and the court is therefore of opinion
that the re-captor is entitled to falvage.
The next objeCt of enquiry, is, what falvage ought to
be allowed ? The captors claim one half the grofs value
of' the Ihip and cargo. To fupport this claim they rely
on the at "sfor the-government of the navy of the United
States," paffed the 2d of March, 1799. This aot regulates the falvage payable on the fbipS and goods belonging
to the citizens of the United States, or to the citizens
or fubjels of any nation in amity with the United States,
re-taken from the enemy.
It has been contended that the cafe before the court
'is in the very words of the ai% That the owner of the
Amelia is a citizen of a ftate in amity with the United
States, re-taken- from the enemy.- That the defcription
would have been more limited, had the intention of the
a41 been to refirain its application to a re-captured veffel
belonging to a nation engaged with- the United States
againf the fame enemy.
The words of the a l would certainly admit of this
conftruCnion.
Againrft it, it has been urged, and wt think with great
force, that the laws- of the United States ought not, if
it be avoidable, fo t be conftrued as to infraCt the common principles and ufagee' of nations, or the general
dotrines of national law. If the conftruffion contended for be given to the aC, it fubjeffs to the fame rate of
falvage a re-captured neutral, and a-re-captured belligerent veffel. Yet, according to the law of nations, a
neutral is generally to bq reftored without falvage.
This argument in the opinion of the court, derives
great additional weight from the confideration that the
aCk in queftion is not temporary, but permanent. It is
not merely fitted to the then exifting ftate of things, and

TALROT

..
SEEMAN.

SUPREME COURT U. 8.
calculated to expire with them, but is a regulation apply.
ing to prefent and future times.

TALBOT

'v.
SEEMAN.

-

-

Whenever the danger refulting to captured neutral,
from the laws of France ftould ceafe, then, according
to the principles laid down in this decree, the liability of
re-captured neutrals to the payment of falvage, would,
in conformity with the general law and ufage of nations,
ceafe alfo. This event might have happened, and probably did happen, before hoftilities between the United
States and France were terminated by treaty. Yet, if
this law applies to the cafe, falvage from a re-captured
neutral would ftiU be demandable.
This a&l then, if the words admit it, fince it provides
a permanent rule for the payment of falvage, ought to
be confirued to apply only to cafes in which falvage is
permanently payable.
On infpeqing the claufe in queftion, the court is ftruck
with the defeription of thofe fromi whom the veffel is to
be re-taken in order to come within the provifions of the
a&f. The expreffion ufed is the enemy. A veffel re-taken
from the enemy. The enemy of whom? The court
thinks it not unreafonable to anfwer, of both parties.
.By" this conftruffion the a& of congrefs will never vio.,
late thofe principles which we believe, apd which it is
our duty to believe," the legiflature of- the United States
will always hold facred.
If this a& does not, comprehend the cafe, then the
court is to decide, on a juft citimate of the danger from
which the re-captured was faved, and of the rilk attending the re-taking of the veffiel, what is a reafonable falvage. Confidering the circumftances, and confidering
alfo what rule has been adopted in other courts of admiralty, one-fixth appears to be a reafonable allowance.
It is there'&re the opinion. of the court, that the decree
of the circuit court, held for the diftricft of New-York,
was corre6 in revering the decree of the diftri- court)
but not corre& in decreeing the reftoration of the Amelia
without paying falvage. This court; therefore, is of oplnion, that the decree fo far as the reftoration of the

DECEMBER. i8ot.
Amelia without falvage is ordered, ought to be reverfed,

TALBO

and that the Amelia and her cargo ought to be reftored
to the claimant, on paying for falvage one-fixth part of
the nett value, after dedudling therefrom the charges
which have been incurred.

Vv.
SEAMAN.

GEORGE WILSON v. RICHARD MASON,
.D.BEIIS.EE OF GEORGE MASON,

WILSON

AND

RICHARD MASON,

DEVISEE OF GEORGE MASON,
1.

GEORGE WILSON,

V.

MASON.
Wafle and utt.

appropriated
lands in Ken
-tucky, iii the

THESE were writs of error to the diflri& court of year

1780,

be
uponi could notappro.
ofKentucky,
the United States, for the diftri& of
land.awfully
priated by furcrofs caveats for the fame trad of land.
vey alone, with-

The caveat of Wilfon v. Mafon originated in the fuout a entry
previous
in
kil• legal
preme court, for the diftri& of Kentucky in.178 5, while
"..
th
e b'ook
en *
..ga
bntr of
oi.
Kentucky was a part of the commonwealth of Virginia, tries.
and the record hates, "cthat heretofore, viz. at akfupreme A writ of error
" court for thediftrid of Kentucky, held at Danville in the upona caveat,
... . ..
lies from the
"sfaid'diftri&, in the month of March, 17785, came George diftridl Court of
"9Wifon and citufed a certain caveat to be entered againft Kentucky dif.
"George -Mafon, which is in the. following words, viz. trid, to the
"Let no grant iffhe to George Mafon, of Fairfax coun- fupreme court
of the United
"ty, for 8,300 acres of land, in Jefferfon county, fur- states,
"veyed on the fouth fide of Panther Icreek, adjoining Notice of an il'19,anotber furvey of the.-faid Mafon's, of 8,400 acres, legal a2, will
"(on the upper fide , becaufe tb-. faid George Mafon has lid keit. a
"furveyed
the fame contrary to his loeation, for. which A fu~vey in

"caufe, and alfo on account of the vaguenefs of the
"entry, George Wilfon claims the fame, or fo much
thereof, as interferes with his entry, made on treafury
"warrants for 40,926 acres, fpecially made on the 9 th
"day of April., 1784. Entered 25 th March, 1785."

itW ercupon, it-o ober term, .178 5, a fummons

iffued, commandingthe

ieriff of Fairfax counity to

Kentucky nok

an
founded
entry, is on
a void
a&and colfi.
rutet notitle
whatever; and

land fofirveyed

remains vacant,
and liable to be
appropriated by

"ffmmon George Mafon to appear at ihe next March any pe' on
a-landterm, to fhew cauf why the 8,300 acres fhould
. not be. holding
warrant.

