FEBRUARY, i80.3.

309

proceed upon the faid bond. This is true, if there be
no fatutable provifion to diredl and authorize fuch proceeding. Congrefs have conflitutional authority to eftablifh from time to time fuch inferior tribunals as they may
think proper; and to transfer a caufe from one fuch tribunal to another. In this laft particular, there are no
words in the conftitution to prohibit or reftrain the exercife of legiflative power.

STUAPtR

IV.
LAIRD.

The prefent is a cafe of this kind. It is nothing more
than the removal of the fuit brought by Stuart againft
Laird from the court of the fourth circuit to th," court of
the fifth circuit, which is authorized to proceed upon and
carry it into full effed. This is apparent from the ninth
fedion of the a& entitled, " an adt to amend the judicial
99 fyftem of the United States," paffed the 29 th of April,
1802. The forthcoming bond is an appendage to the
caufe, or rather a component part of the proceedings.
2d. Another reafon for reverfal is, that the judges of
the fupreme court have no right to fit as circuit judges,
not being appointed as fuch, or in other words, that they
ought to have diftin& commiffions for that purpofe. To
this objeffion, which is of recent date, it is fuflicient to
obferve, that pratice and acquiefcence under it for a
period of feveral years, commencing with the organization
of the judicial fyftem, affords an irrefiftable anfwer, and
has indeed fixed the conftruaion. It is a contemporary
interpretation of the moft forcible nature. This praftical
expofition is too ftrong and obftinate to be fhaken or controlled. Of courfe, the queftion is at reft, and ought not
now to be difturbed.
Judgment ajrmed,

THOMAS HAMILTON
V/.

JAMES RUSSELL.
____HAM

I LT
r0.

D,

ERROR from the circuit court of the diftri t RuSSE'L L.
of Columbia fitting at Alexandria.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
IIAMILTON
James Ruffel, the defendant, having obtained a judgTo.
ment againft Robert Hamilton, brother of the defendant,
RUSSLL. ordered the marfhall to levy thefierifacas upon fundry
'v
"
goods and chattels in the poffeffilon of Robert, the debtAn abfolute bill or; which was done accordingly ; whereupon the presfraledul nt ; ent plaintiff, Thomas Hamilton, brought an a&ion of trefto creditors, un- pafs againift Ruffel, claiming the goods by virtue of art
left p#r ..... abfolute bill of fale from his brother Robert, dated the 4 th
companies and
of January i8oo, and acknowledged and recorded in the
follows the deted. .
The want of circuit

court of the diftri& of Columbia for the county

poft-fion is not of Alexandria, on the x4th of April, ,8ot.
Notwithmerely evidence, ftanding which bill of fale, Robert, the vendor, continued
of fraud, but I in pofl.ffion, and exercifed aits of ownerfhip over the

fer fe, which
makes the
tranfaaion
fraudulent in

property.
There was a general verdi&t in the court below, and judgment for the defendant, upon the general
iffue.

Point of la o.

The court are
not bound to

The tranfcript of the record contained two bills of exceptions.

give an opinion

on an abftradl

The firif ftated that the defendant "cprayed the court
point of law,
unlefs it be fo 9( to inftrud the jury, that if they ihould be of opinion
flatedastofhew
cc from the evidence that the plaintiff, who claims the
its connexion
with the caufe, " flave George, in the declaration mentioned, under an
" abfolute bill of fale, for a valuable confideration," (which
bill of fale, recorded before the iffuing of thefierifacias
upon which the property was feized, is fet forth in the
bill of exceptions,) ' permitted the vendor, Robert Ham" ilton, to continue in poffeffion of the flave and to exer"cife affs of ownerfhip 'over the fame, he the faid plain" tiff has not a good title to the faid flave againft the exeig' cution of the defendant, who was a bonafide creditor of
5
." Robert Hamilton ;" which
xecution the defendant
dire'ted to be ferved "on the faid flave. And the court
fo inftrudcd the jury," to which the plaintiff excepted.

The fecond bill of exceptions ftated that the plaintiff
'prayed the court to inftru&t the jury, " that a plaintiff in
" trefpafs, whofe property is loaned to a friend, and is in
" that friend's pgfftfion at the time it is feized by a
: ffheriff in virtue of an execution againift the perfon fo
" in poffeffion, can fuftain an aftion of trefpafs for a
"feizure upon fuch poffefion ;" but the court being di"vided in opinion did nal give the inftrudion as prayed,

FEBRUARY, 1803.

31

&wann,forplaintfin error, contended that,

I-IAMIL 'oN

ift. The bill of 'fale being acknowledged and recorded RussELL.
according to the a& of affembly of Virginia refpe&ing
frauds and perjuries, (revjfed code., p. 18,) is valid, and not
fraudulent as to creditors.

That a&k of affembly contains provifions fimilar to thofe
in the Englifh' fatuLes of 29 Car. 2, c. 3, ยง 4. 13 Eliz.
c. 5, ยง 2, and 27 Eliz. c. 4, ยง 2, and has moreover a

claufe in the following words, viz.
" If a conveyance be of goods and chattels, and be
confideration deemed valuable in law, it thall be
" taken to be fraudulent within this a&, unlefi the fame
" be by will duly proved and recorded, or by deed in
" writing acknowledged and proved (if the fame deed in" elude lands alfo,) in fuch manner
as conveyances of
" land are by law dire&ed to be acknowledged or proved,
" or if it be of goods and chattels only, then acknow" ledged, or proved by two witneffes in the general court,
"or court of the county, wherein one of the parties'lives,
" within eight months after the execution thereof, or un,
c lefs poffeffion fhall really and bondfide remain with the
" not on

"

donee."

9,This act fhall not extend to any eftate or intereft in
any lands, goods or chattels, or any rents, common or

"profit, out of the fame, which fhall be upon good con"fideration, and bondfide, lawfully conveyed or affured
" to any perfon or perfons, bodies politic or corporate."
Under this a&, he contended the deed would be good
againft creditors, notwithftanding that the poffefion did
not accompany the deed. And although the deed was
not acknowledged within eight months after its execution,
yet being acknowledged and recorded before the fierifaeias iffued upon which the goods were feized, it was good

againft that execution ; and for this he cited the cafe of
Eppes v. Randolph, 2 CRll's reports.

2d. The court ought to have inftru&ed the jury, as
prayed in the fecond bill of exceptions.
The law is well eftablifhed that he who has the general
property of goods 'may maintain trefpafs againft him who

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HAMILTON

IV.

tortioufly takes them out of the poffelfion of the owner's
bailee. f Bac. ab. Gwillim's Ed. 164.

RUSSELL.

*Simms,

for defendant in error.
As to the firft bill of exceptions. This deed is clearly
fraudulent as to creditors. In the cafe of Lavender v.
Black/lone, 2 Levinz 147, lord Hale faid that " very con" veyance fhall be efteemed primafacie fraudulent againft
a purchafer."

And in Edwards and Hat ben,

2

Term rep.

594, it is faid by Buller, juftice, to have been the unanimous opinion of all the judges in England, " that unlefs
" poffeffion accompanies andfollows the deed, it is fraudu"t lent and void." If the poffeffion be inconfiftent with
the deed, it is clear and conclufive evidence of fraud,
Hafelinton v. Gill, cited in Jarman v. Woolloton, 3 Term
rep. 620. Cadogan v. Kennet, Cowup. 434.
The ad of affembly of Virginia has fimilar provifions
with the flatutes of 13th and 27 th Eliz. and nearly in the
fame words. Thofe provifions however, were nothing
more than a declaration of the principles of the common
law.
But this a& of affembly, by making deeds abfolutely
void which are not for a valuable confideration, unlefs acknowledged, cannot be conftrued to make good, as againft
creditors, a deed purporting to be for a valuable confideration. The ac makes the deeds therein mentioned,
which are not for valuable confideration, abfolutely void
even between the parties themfelves ; and it cannot be
pretended that the acknowledgment according to that a&
would fet up fuch a deed againft bonafide creditors. The
ad was intended to fupprefs, and not promote or conceal
fraud. If fuch a conftrudion could be put upon the ad
as is contended for, it would make valid deeds which
would before have been void as being fraudulent againft
creditors. But the a& takes no notice at all of fuch a
deed as this, except in the fecond fedion of the law,
where deeds made with the intent to defraud creditors are
exprefsly declared to be void. So anxious is the a": to
fupprefs fraud that in the cfe of a loan, if the lender does
not demand the property lent in five years, and follow up
that demand with a profecution at law to recover pof.

FEBRUARY, 18o3.

31n

fieffion of his goods, the poffeffion becomes conclufive evidence of property.

HAMILTON
W.

RU SSELL.

2d. As to the fecond bill of exceptions, the court did
right in not giving the inftrua'ion as prayed.
Poffeffion is neceffary to fupport an a&ion of trefpafs.
Bul. N. P. 79- This ought to have been an adtion on
the cafe and not trefpafs. i Strange, 635, Reynoldi v.
Clarke. 4 Term rep. 489, tard v. Macauley.
C. Lee, on the fame fide.
The cafe of Ward and Macauley has over-ruled all the
cafes cited from Bacon's abridgment, and has been re.
cognifed in the cafe of Gordon v. Harper, 7 Term rep. 9,
where the dolrine has been carried even farther, and
held that neither trefpafs nor trover would lie unlefs the
poffeffion, or right of poffifion, was in the plaintiff. In
that cafe the goods of the landlord had been leafed to the
tenant, and during the leafe were taken in execution for
the debt of a third perfon. The court held that during
the leafe the landlord had neither the poffeffion nor the
right of poffeffion, and therefore he could maintain neither trefpafs nor trover. Now in the cafe made by the
fecond bill of exceptions, it is not ftated whether the
loan was for a time certain, or at the will of the lender.
If the loan was for a time certain, there is no difference
between that cafe and a leafe for a time certain. In neither cafe is the poffeffion, or the right of pofeffion in the
plaintiff. The bailee by loan for a time certain, has an
equal right to the pok ffion, during that time, with a bailec
for hire; and either may maintain trefpafs againft him
who violates that poffeffion, whether it be a itranger or
the owner.

Chafe, jfiice.
There is here no exception applicable to this cafe. The
bill of exceptions flates only an abftra6t queftion. It is
not whether the plaintiff in this cafe can maintain an action
of trefpafs, but whether any plaintiff can maintain treepafs for property loaned to a friend.

R .

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HAMILTON
'U

RUsSE.L.
Y

Svann, in reply,
Relied on the af of affembly of Virginia. The Englifk
cafes do not apply; for in England they have no fuch ftatute authorizing the recording of deeds of perfonal propetty ; nor any fubifitute for the aftual delivery of poffellion of goods in any cafe whatever.
Even a mortgage of perfonal property is there deemed
fraudulent as to creditors unlefs poffeflion accompanies
the deed ; and. the reafon given, in all the books, is, that
it gives a falfe credit to the mortgager, enables him
to impofe upon the world, and gives him a power to deceive and defraud thofe who deal with him.
Wilfon 26o,
'Ryall v. Rolle. But when fuch a deed is publicly made and
expofed to view upon the public records, as this was,
fuch reafon mift fail ; and with the reafon, the law mul
fail alfo.
As to the fecond bill of exceptions,
There is certainly a difference between a loan and a
leafe. In a loan the lender does not part with the right
of poffeffion, nor, in law, does he part with the a~tual
poffeflion ; for the bailee's poffeffion, is the poffeffion of
the lender, who has a right to refume the thing into his
own hands at any moment. There is no adverfe poffeffion,
nor adverfe claim, as there is in the cafe of a leafe.
Fraud or no fraud, is a point to be decided by the jury
and not by the court. It is a queflion of faa; and the
court have inftruded the jury as if it were a matter of law.
The pofeffion of the vendor is not in itfelf a fraud, but
only a circumftance from which, connefted with others,
the jury may prefume the faa of a fraudulent intent.
February 28th. The Chiefiuflice delivered the opi.
nion of the court.
On the 4 th January, I 8oo, Robert Hamilton made to
Thomas Hamilton an abfolute bill of fale for a flave in
the bill mentioned, which on the 14 th of April, i8or,
was acknowledged and recorded in the court of the county in which he refided. The flave continued in poffeffion

FEBRUARY, 1803.

315

of the vendor; and fome fhort time after the bill of fale HAMILTONs
q.
*was recorded, an execution on a judgment obtained againif
the vendor was levied on the flave, and on fome other RUSSELL.
perfonal property alfo in poffeffion of the vendor. In July,
x8ox, Thomas Hamilton, the vendee, brought trefpafs
againft the defendant Ruffell, by Vrhofe execution, and
by whofe direaion, the property had been feized ; and
at the trial, the counfel for the defendant moved the court
to inftru& the jury, that if the flave, George, remained
in the poffeffion ef the vendor, by the confent and permifion of the vendee ; and if by fuch confent and permifion the vendor continued to exercife a&s of ownerfhip over him, the vendee under fuch circumftances could
not proted fuch flave from the execution of the defendant.
The court gave the inftru&ion required, to which a bill
of exceptions was taken.
The counfel for the plaintiff then moved the court to
inftrua the jury that a plaintiff in trefpafs, whofe property is loaned to a friend, and is in that friend's poffctffion
at the time it is feized by a fheriff in virtue of an execution
againft the perfon fo in poffeffion, can fuftain an a&ion
of trefpafs for a feizure upon fuch poffeffion.
The court, being divided, refufed to give the initruction required, and the jixry found a verdia for the defendant. Judgment was accordingly rendered for the
defendant, 'to which a writ of error has been fued out,
and the queftion is, whe her the court below has erred
in the inffru&ions given or refufed.
In the opinion towhich the firif bill of exceptions was
taken, it is contended on two grounds that the circui court
has erred.
ift. Becaufe this fale is, under the a& of the Virginia
affembly againft fraudulent fales, prote&ed by being recorded.
2dly. That if it be not prote&ed by that a&, ftill it is
only evidence of fraud, and not in itfelf a fraud.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
IHAMILIoGN

'v.

On examining the ad of affembly alluded to, the court
is of opinion that it does not comprehend abfolute bills
of fale among thofe where the title may be feparatcd from

RussiULL.
- a
-'
'
the poffeffion, and yet the conveyance be a valid one, if

recorded within eight months. On this point one judge
doubted, but he is of opinion that this bill of fale was
not recorded within t' e time required by the ad, and that
the decifion in the cafe of Eppes v. Randolph, which was
made by the court of appeals of Virginia, on a different
ad of affembly, would not apply to this ad.
On the fecond point there was more difficulty. The
a& of affembly, which governs the cafe, appears, as far
as refpedas fraudillent conveyances, to be'intended to be
co-extenfive with the a6ds of the 13 th and 27 th of Eliz.
and thofe a6s are confidered as only declaratory of the
principles of the common law. The decifions of the
Englifl judges therefore apply to this cafe.
In fome cafes a fale of a chattel, unaccompanied by
the delivery of poffeffion, appears to have been confidered as an evidence, or a badge, of fraud, to be fubmitted
to the jul y, under the diredion of the court, and not as
conftituting in itfelf, in point of law, an adual fraud
which rendered the tranfadtion as to creditors entirely
void. Modern decifions have taken this queftion up upon principle, and have determined, that an unconditional
fale, where the poffeffion does not ' accompany and follow the deed," is, with refped to creditors, on the found
conftrudion of the ftatute of Elizabeth, a fraud, and
fhould be fo determined by t~e court. The diflin6ion
thZy have taken is between a deed purporting on the face
'of it to be abfolute, fo that the feparation of the poffeffion from the title is incompatible with the deed itfelf,
and a deed made upon condition which does not entitle
the vendor to the immediate poffeffion. The cafe of
Edwards v. Harbin, exr. ?f 2mpefl Mercer, 2 Term rep.

587, turns on this diftin'tiop, and is a very firong cafe.
William Tempeft Mercer, on the 27th of March, 1786,
offered to the defendant Harbin, a bill of fale of fundry
chattels as a fecurity for a debt due by Mercer to Harbin.
This Harbin refufed to take, unlefs je fhould be permitted, at the expiration of fourteen days, if the debt fhould

FEBRUARY, 18o3.
remain unpaid, to take poffeffion of the goods and fell HAMILTON
.hem, in fatisfaaion of the debt. The furplus money to
q,.
be returned to Mercer.

To this Mercer agreed, and a RuSSELL.

bill of fale, purporting on the face of it to be abfolute,
was executed, and a corkfcrew delivered in the name of
.the whole. Mercer died within the fourteen days, and
immediately after their expiration Harbin took poffeilion
of the goods fpecified in the bill of fale and fold them. A
fuit was then brought againft him by Edwards, who was
alfo a creditor of Mercer, charging Harbin as executor in
his own wrong, and the queftion was, whether this bill
of fale was fraudulent and void, as being on its face abfolute, and being unaccompanied by the delivery of poffeflion. It was determined to be fraudulent ; and in that
cafe it is faid that all the judges of England had been
confulted on a motion for a new trial in the cafe of Banford v. Baron, and were unanimoufly :of opinion that
44 unlefs poffeffion accompanies and follows the deed, it
is fraudule t and void ;" that is, that unlefs the poffeffion
remain with the perfon, fhown by the deed to be entitled
to it, fuch deed is void as to creditors within the ftatutes.
This principle is faid by judge Buller, to have been long
fettled and never to have been ferioufly queftioned. He
ftates it to have been eftablifhed by lord Coke, in 2d Bulflrode, fo far as to declare that an abfolute conveyance or
gift of a leafe for years, unattended with poffeflion, was
fraudulent., c But if the deed or conveyance be conditi" onal, there the vendor's continuing in poffeflion does
" not avoid it, becaufe by the terms of the conveyance
' the vendee is not to have the poffeffion tilf he has per" formed the condition."
" And that cafei continues
"judge Buller, makes the diftinft ion between deeds or
โข" bills of fale which are to take place immediately, and
" thofe which are to take place at fome future time. For
in the latter cafe, the poffeffion continuing with the
" vendor till fuch future time, or till that condition be
"performed, is confiftent with the deed, and fuch pof"feffion comes within the rule as acconpanying and fol.
lowing the deed. That cafe has been univerfally followed by all the cafes fince." "c'This," continues the
jtqdge, "has been argued by the defendant's counfel as
being a cafe in which the want of poffeffion is only evic dence of fraud, and that it was not fuch a circumfiance
",perfe, as makes the tranfaaion fraudulent in point of

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HAMILTON "9law; that is the point which we have confidered, and

10.
RUssELL.

" we are all of opinion, that if there is nothing but the
" abfolute conveyance, without the poiTeffion, that in point
,"-of law is fraudulent."
This court is of the fame opinion. We think that the
intent of the ftatute is beft promoted 6y that conftru~tion;
and that fraudulent conveyances, which are made to fecure to a debtor a beneficial intereft while his property
is proteded from creditors, will be moft effectually prevented by declaring that, an abfolute bill of fale is itfelf
a fraud, unlefs poffcffion "tccompanies andfollows the deed."

This conftruion too comports with the words of the a&.
Such a deed muft be confidered as made with an intent
"

to delay, hinder, or defraud creditors,"

On the fecond bill of exceptions the court did right in
refufing to give the inftru&ion required. The queftion
propounded feems to have been an abftra& queftion not

belonging to the caufe.
Judgment afirmed with cofls.

UNITED STATES
V0.

1.

STATES

R. T. HOOE AND OTHERS.

R. T. Hoot
& AL.

'nder the

THIS was

judiciary a&1 of cuit court of
1789, in chancery cafes, a of Chaticery.
(atement of

a writ of error to a decree of the cir-

the diftrit of Columbia, fitting as a ouart

The cafe was,that colonel Fitzgerald in the year x794was
tranfeript. This appointed colletor of the cufloms for the port of Alex
rad mut
company

ac-

the

provifion was
revived by the
repeal
of the a&
of February

uar.

andria, and gave bond to the United States in the penalty
of i O,OOO dollars, with R. T. Hooe as his furety, for the
faithful performance of the duties of the office. In con-

fequence of mifapplication of large fums of money by the

chief clerk, who was enttufted with almoft the whole

