FEBRUARY TERM 1n1.
Ferdinand Hurxthal; must be restored on payment
Tnp,
of the salvage of one, sixth part of the value. The pro- scjiHoNBr
pert - embraced in the claims on behalf of P ter Bou, AIDELME1.
junr. of R. Henry, of P. Doussault, of William Johnston and James Dowling, of G. Brousse, must b condemned to the captors.
The remaining claims must stand for farther proof.
And as to the property umwlaimed, it must be condemned
as good and lawful prize to the captors.
The decree of the Circuit Court is to be reformed so
&sto be in conformity with this decision.

THE BRIG ANN$

M'CLIN,

185.

USTERU.
_

ar6 It-.-

+qhse t....ToDD, J.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court byr
If aa d0-'w
lecXt'r,
for the district of Connecticut, which revered that ofi. a ,tono
the District Court, and restored the property to the of thtrunyeau

Claimant.
STORY,
lows:

Statts be vo-

. deliverbd the opinion of the Court as .fU1-

lut uuily abanthe
ion,.uIl
psmprc-y re-rq broo
the lIfl
or in-

This is an information against twelve raks of mrer- diUo.
chandize, part of the cargo of the brig Ann. alleged to d the t-.
have been imported or put on board with aiu intent' to "'et Ccurt hbe imported contrary to the non-impiortation act of-ist orthe Came
March, 809, ch. 91, 5.
It appears from the evidence that the Ann sailed from
Liverpool for New York in July, 1812, having nn board
a cargo of British merchandize. She was seized by a
revenue cutter of the United State., on her passago
towards New, York, while in Lung Island Sound, about
midway between Long Island and Falkland Tslan:l. and
eairied inirn the port of New Haven about the 7th of
October, 1812, and immediately taken possessiob of by
VOL. -IX.
8.7

20

SUPEME COURT U. S.

"rii

the collector of that port, as forfeited to the United
States. On the morning of the i2th of October the colector gave written orders ior the release of tiohobig and
MAS'rBR. carjgo frorn the seizure, in pursuance of directions from
--- ,the secretary of the tl'easury, returned the ship,, papers
to the master, and gave permission for the brig to proceed without delay to New York. Late in the, afternoon of the same (lay, the present information was allovd Jy the district judge, and on the ensuing (lay,
the brig and cargo were duly taken into posses.ion by
the marshal, under the usual monition from the Court.
On the trial in the District Court, the property now in
controversy was condemned; arid, upon an appeal, that
decree was reversed in the Circuit Cobrt.

:ARIG ANN,
M'CL I N,

It..has been argued that the decree of the Circuit
Court oul-ht to be affi.1ed, becalise, on the whole factso
the District Court had n9 j-frisdiction over the cause:
and this'arginent is muaintained oil two grounds ; first,
That the original seizure was made witiih the judicial
district of New York; 'and,seconilly, That if the seizure
Was originally made A,,ithin the judicial district of 'Connecticut, the jurisdiction thereby acquired by the District Court was, by the subsequent abapdonment tL.tho
seizure and want of,possession, completely ousted.
It is*unnecessary to consider the first groundi becauso
we are all of (,pinion that suffirient matter is not disclosed in the evidence to enable the Court to dectle
whiether the seizure was within the. district of New York
or of Coniecticut, or upon waters common to both.
.The second ground deserves great considcration. By

thejudicial act of the. 2-4th September, 1789, Ch. -0, 9,
the District Courts are Vested With " exclusive originat
"conizanre of all civil causes of admiralty and mari-itir- jurisdiction, including all seizures under laws of
"impost, navigation or frade of the VJntRd Statqs,
"twhere the seizuies are piade on waters navigable ftom
"the seaby vessels of feti or more tons burthen witlut
"tsMeirrespective districts, as well as upon the high seres."
Whatever miglt have been the co istruction of tho jurisdiction of'the Distfict Courts, iL thie legislatumre" lad
stopped at the wordf "admiralty and maritimejurisdietior," it seems manifest, by the subsequent clause, thht

FEBRUARY TERM 18W .

e9

the jurisdiction as to revenue forfeitures, was ilitrnded
TL
to be given to the Court of the restrict, not where tlhe 11G
11
'i,
offence was c mmitted, but Where the scizure was mad . Ni-CLAL1y
And this witli good re;.sqn. In order to institute 'and MASTER.
perfect proce dings in ren, it is necessa.r that the
thing .lhuuld be actually or constructively within th
reach of £he Court. It is actually witin its possession
Mhen it'is submitted to the process of*the Couft; it is
constructively so, when, by a scizure, it is ield to ascertain"and enforce a right or forfeiture wvhich can alone be
decided by a judicial decre& in rem. If the place of
committing the offence had fixtd the judicial forum
where it was to betried, the law "would have been, in
numerous cases, evaded ; for, by a removal of the thing
friom such place, the Court could have had no power to
enforce its decree. The lcgislature, therefore, wisely
determined that the place of seizure should decide as to
the proper- and competent tribunal. It follows, fkom
this consideration, that before judicial cognizancp'can
attach upun a forfeiture in rein, under the statute, there
must be a seizure ; for until seizure it is impossible to
ascertain.what is the conipeteh fiorum. And, if so, it
mustbe a good subsisting seizure at the time when'the
lib'torinbformation is filed and allowed. If a seizure
be completely and explicitly abandoned, and the 'property restored by the voluntary act of the party who hs
made the seizure, all rights under it aMe gone. Although
judicial jurisdiction once attached, it is divested by the
subsequent proceedings; and it can be revived only by
a ipew seizure. It is, in this respect, like a case of capture, %lh'ch,althogtih well made, gives no authority to
the prize Court. to proceed to adjudication, if it be voluntarily abandoned ,erore judicial. proceedings are instituted. It is not meant to assert that a tirtious ouster
oT--posse-ssion, or frdudulent 'rescue, 1br relinquishment
after seizure, will divest (he jurisdiction. The case
put (and it is precisely the present case) is a voluntary
abandonment anil release of tli property seized, the legal effect of which nust, as we think, be to purg.e away
all the prior rights aequired by the seizure.
On flue whole', it is the opinion of the majority of the
Cgort that the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be
aftirmed.

