FEBRUARY TERM iSi5.
Montaug and New London, he is seized by the revenue u. sTA~rs
i:.
cutter, anti forced-into the latter porL We are of .pinion
TILE
that there was nothing either in action or intention which
subjected this'vessel to municipal tr'friture. A condem- cARoo oF
nation is claimed on no otler'ground ; aiid the decree of Tfl1
FALIV'.
of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be affirmed.
The claiins of the several parcels of rerchandize seized in the Fanny, rest on the same circumstances, and
must likewise be restored.

THE FRANCES, BoyER,

MASTER,

(Dinhdam and iudloilph's claim.)

I8f5.
Fb.

IS&.

,Obsent....TonD 3.
IN this case fairtlier proof was ordered at the last if a 'Bri
mmutt OM.
with Wis
m,
(See .dtte- o. 8,p. 354.)

term.

PINKIN

,

for the Claimants.

ert of

i exnb.
Randolph by tue not
The property vested in Dunham.and
canfrmty
shipm:.nt. It

was made in couisequenco:of, althoii gh not wvoidt eor
cr.
strictly in conformity with, their orders; and delive'y nF an
to the master of tlizi vessi-l was tantamount to a delive- "in1111., .lu
ry to themselves. The invoices and bills of lading all kniri, gi-stated the goods to be shipped on their account awl risk. i. tht American
M
~ptian!zoo-e
wiar-m
.
"
lnafter
2-t
slipment
But if the property did not pass by the
thereis no reason why it should rint pass in transilu, e
so that it be before capture. It is true that it can nt or rjeiet
o.
re
vest in transitaso as to defeat a vested belligere.nt ri.
But if the transfer take place, according to the original ta uion the
tat they
terms of the contract, before a belligent right has .tccru- tit,
wi
ed, it is not within the principle nor the spirit.of the Cut
rule. 'If the further proof shows that the property had =,Ozcr a t
th oer;ts
it in the
""puts
absolutely vested in Dunham• and Randolph before the
TV cthe
captue, it must be restored.
I~~ihmfr.cdit
eith,? to
The further proof shows that the invoice, stating the e= tie uaIo'e
abipment to he made for their account and risk, was utheAte-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
sent to them; and that D. and I. wrote a letter botbri,
,RANcEs, the capture of the Frances accepting the g) 6d by the

Fannq, and saying that they would consider as t,) those
by the Frances.

(DuNvtiIvx

& RANDOLPH'S

COiLm.)

The question then is, whether the whole of both car.

BOYER,
WEASTER.

go-s did not thereby vest, eo iustan, in Dunham mill
Randolph.

rian house, or

property

The documentary evidence is clear and positive; II

endbehoves the captors to show how it is qualified.

muake iem ac-

The condition up-rn which thp property was to vest in
cme to their the Claimants, was perfrimed befare the capttre. They
hands. of Thd
to take the goods by the Fanny, and were infight
pro- agreed
.
pr. ih th
stantly
bound to take both shipments. Tlry could, not
countable
fnr
that which

cargo notdoesa
.a-afterwards
cepted
P""
o ref,,se that by the Frances.

Their letter
not, intsitu,o agreeing to take the goods by the Fanny was dated

st

i die the 9.2d of August. Tim Frances was not captured unti the 28th.

Amierican -

house, but remains in die

Brit:sh subject

Y Ni-mETT, on the samne side.

and is lhble to
c ildenination,

hl being aix
The surplug ofgoods, beyond the order wa chiefly
en-mv.
if not entirely in the Fanny and accepted by D. and R.

so that there can be no question on th' -round that the
goods by the Fr:nces were not ordered.
Dunham and Randolph's letter ot 19th of'Septcmber
explains the cause of their partial acceptance.
DEXTER,

ontra.

This Court has decided that this was a conditlon precedent, and that the tran-Xcr could not take place until
the condition was performed.
The first question is, whether, if the goods were accepted by Dnham and Rndollib, either in fact'or in
law, the property could pass in transitt. 'he general
principle is, that it could not. The ques'io, always is,
'in whom was the right of property (it the 'time of ship.
nent ? The simplicity and celerity with which thr trial
of captures m-iqt be conducted require that the question
should be limited to tlh. time of shipment. For the

FEBRUARY TERM i8i.
same reason, prize Courts have rejected equitable liens.
If it were not so, further proof* would he required in
every case. 6 Rob. 329-note; T-wen Venner . ro~n .
This rule is reasonable. 'Possession is evidence of ownership. Change of title in transitu is only an exception
to the general rule. The exception should be confined
to the cases in which it has been held necessary, as
where possession could not be delivered, &c. The papers on board are always sufficient for the. captor&. In
a prize Court the documentary evidence is all important. This point is settled in the caqe of the claim of
Jones and MGee in the VetiUs at this term.
As to the further proof produced in this causei it is of
very little importance. Dunham and Randolph did not
comply with the condition upon which the properly was
to vest in them. They agreed to take a part only. and
therefore were not entitled to any. It is imm--terial
whether this bound Thenm to take the whole or not. It
did not bind Thompson. He had a right to refuse to
let them have any part, as they had not accepted the
whole, or he might insist upon their taking thp whole.
It was at his option to call upon them to account, as
his factors, for the whole. If Thompson had such a right,
the captors have such a right, for by the capture they
succeeded jure belli to all the rights of Thompson.
.The time was past when they accepted the goods b'y

the Fanny; th.'y 'were in the custody or the law under
the seizire of the revenue officers Dunhan and Rondolph could oily accept them coinditimially; i. e. if they
should le restored ; but if they should he condemned
they could not receive them.
It is not credible that they should have received them
absoltely at the time they were under seizur,.. Tivl) did
notbonafide accept them. It is not to be believed thatttliy
would take qpon themselves the risk of their cofidenination. It was probably done as a cover for the benefit
of Thompson. The goods not being according to order
they were not bound to accept them. Themlson made
a new proposil to them. They did not accept it, but
offered new terms on their part to whichThompsom did
not assent ; so that there was no agreement. The property never passed.
VOL. IX.
241

n,
FRA1NCES,

(nuNn z
& nAWnotrn's
c isr,)
noryn,
sASTnua

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tutn
FRAINCES,

EnmMwiT, in repl..

(DUNttAn

Therer are two questions in this cause:

A&lN-

I. The first is a question of fact; did Dunham and
CLAIM,) Randolph accept the goods?

IoMPH's

BOYER,
MASTER.

2. The second is a question of law, pan such an ac.
ceptance chunge the title in transitu.
1. Dunham and Randolph, relying on the justice of
the United States, and -that they'would protect goods,
the property of citizens of the United States, shipped on
the faith of the declarations of their agents respecting
the effect of the repeal of the orders in council, did bona
fide accept them. This appears from their letter of the
19th of September. They had no motive to make the
goods appear American rather than British-for in
each case they would be equally liable to condomnation.
They relied entirely upon thejustice of the government.
The acceptance of the goods by the Fanny was abgolute. The language used in regard to those by the
Frances was intended to deceive the enemy, in case of
British capture.
Thompson had no right to annex the condition to
the acceptance. The goods were orde'ed by Dunham
.nd Randolph. Thompson htd a(reed to execute the
order, and was bound so to do. Inslhippin. tle goods
lie was executing an order, not makin. a bargain. Dun1m and Randolph had a right to take to their own account the goods ordere1, and receive the residue as a
consi-u-nnet to sell for the account of Thompson. If
the questionW're now open I should gay that these goods
never helonged to the shioper. They were purchasedby the agent of Dunham and Randolph by their order
and for their account.
2. In point of law, wiat wag tile effect of the acceptance? The acceptance was good for both cargoes or it
was good for neitbpr. Thotpson either lid or had not
a right to annex the condition. If he had not, then tke
goods were the property oIe Dunham and Randolph ab
initio. If he had a right to annex the conditioili they

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.

187

had no right to reject it. They were bound to talio all' Tu
or no .- if they toQk part they were bound to takethe IZrNcEs,
residue. -Their reservation of a right to consider as to (DunEEAM
the goods by the Frances, was void. The only remain- & nzing question is wh.ther belligerent property can change noLr'W
cLAIM,)
in tranitu.
E'1YEAP

Belligerent rights, in derogation of the common law,
are to be construed strictly. They are not to be extended further than the state of war requires. 5 Rob.
161, Yrow rnua Catharina. The rules of war are not
to.be changed for the convenience of captors. It is true
that the captors are to judge by the ship's papers ; but
.here the, ship's pape'rs all shewed the truth of the case;
and nothing but a single letter cast any doubt upon it,
The rulepxtends no further th.n that a neutral title
shag not orighiate during the voyage.
If the title originated anterior to the War; if the ship.
mient was made before the war, and not in c.,ntenjplation of war; and if the condition, upon which.the title
was to change, was annexed before the war; such a

contract could not be hi violation of the belligerent rights.
Thompson had not an option to hold Dunham and
Randolph to the acceptance or not as he pleased. it
they did an act which bound them, he was hound also.
The acceptance must be considered absolute, and the
condition not in derogation of belligerent rights.

.Varch 24. Absent....ToDD, J.
Jou.zsox, J. delivered the opinion or the Court as

fQllows:
This-claim is interposed to obtain restitution of three
bales and nineteen" boxes of goods captured in the Frances. As early as the 23d of July, 1811, these Claimants, anticipating a repeal of the orders in council,
give an order to Alexander Thompson of Glasgow, to
ship them a variety- of articles. In Jul$', 1812, upon
the repeal of the orders in council, rhnompson ships the
articles ordered; and, originally intending to ship to

MxUSTE.

SUPREME COTJRT U. S.
THE

A1cqsc,
(DUMNMAM
&-RANDOLPH's
CLAI&1,)
MOYER,
MASTER,

S--

the Claimants, a cohsignment on his own account, intermingles, with the pods ordered, a variety of others not

contained in the order of the Claimants.

These goods

aro shipped by tvo vessels, the Fanny and the Frances;
and, by a letter dated the lith of July, 18112, Thompson

advises the Claimants of these shipments ; and, after descanting on the merits of tre articles, and declaring his
reason for blenling othertgoods with those shipped to
theirorder, and his Aibsequent determination to make
them an offer of the. adlditonal gonds, he continues in
these words: 6,I leave it with yourselves to take the
" whole of the two shipmnts, or none at all, just as you
please. If you do not wish them, I .will thank you to
"hand theinvoices and letters over to Messrs. Falconer,
, Jackson and Co. I think tweniy-four hours will al6, low you ample opportunity for you to make up your
"minds on this point; and if you do not hand them over
, within that cime, I will, of course, consider that yot;
" take the wholc."
, You will s.e.I think the reason" ableness 'of ypur taking the whole, or none of the
',
shipment."
The Fanny reached the waters of the United States in
safety; and, being seized by a reveru., critter, was'carriedinto New London, where she has been inally restored. ''he Frances was captured on the 28th of August,
by the privateer -Yankee, ahd carried into Rhode loand.
On the !2d of August, after the arrival of the Fanny, the
CL.imants write to Falconer, Jackson & Co. and accept
of the shipment by the Fanny; but with regard'to that
by the Frances, they write in the following words : " His
66letter also speaks of another shipment of thirty-one
" packages per Frances which on arrival we shall then
- hand in our determinatiomi." On the first of Septembe followi.g, they again write to Falconer, Jackson &
Co. intimating their acceptance of the shipment by the
Frances.
On this Ptate of facts it is contended that the Claimants
are entitled to restitution-that they either had an original. interest in the gpbds shipped or had acquired one
before the capture.
In the ordinary course of mercantile transactions, a
delivery to a ship-master is'a delivery to the cogsignee.

FEBRUARY TERM isis.
But it is evident that this delivery may be absolute or
THE
qialifiedl, and that the effiect of.it ipust'vary according- FRAxcO.s,
ing:y. A voluntary agent has the option either to enter (DU~nAM.
upon his agency in strict cinformity with the. instruc- & RANtions of his principal, or with such reservations or con- DolP's
ditions as he may think proper to prescribe; and the CLAIM,)
only consequenc* is, that, in the latter case, he leaves BOYEif,
his principal at liberty to adopt or repudiate his acts. M!ASTER.
Tiv shipper who purchases g iods on his own credit or
with his own funds, is not acting in the ordinary capacity (ifa 'actor. If he were, the goods, Pvwn before shipment, would be the property of the individual on whose
oider the purchase is made. Such shipmients are in the
nature of a' mercantile credit., and the shipper always
retains the uncontroded exercise of discretion in extending it. There was, therefore, nothing inconsistent with
the relative rights of the parties, in Thompson's imposing upon the consignees the condition of taking all or
none of the two shipments; and the consequence was,
that the delivery was -not absolute, but quahfied; and,
until the condition performed, the goods remained the
propeity of the shipper; and had they suffered slipwreck; the loss would have been his.
But it is contended that the condition was performed,
and that this case forms an exception from the rulq that,
as to the exercise of belligerent rights, there shall be no
transfer in transmiu.
The acceptance of the cargo by the Fanny was on
the 2d, the capture of the Frances on the 28th of August. It is contended that the acceptance of the Fanny's cargo was conclusive as to both shipments; and
that, although partial in terms, it must, in law, have
effect as to the whole, since such was the condition imposed by the shippfr; and that it was, in fact, the intention of the Claimants that such should be the effect
of the acceptance; but the reservation was intehded
only as a -.use do guerre to guard against, the efrects of
hostile capture.'
There is certainly nothing illegal in resorfing to devices to elude hostilq capture; and where it ca4 be
clearlk shewn tha property is really neutral or f'iendly,
ts being.covered under hostile habiliments for the pur-

SUPnEDE CO(A

r. U S.

.Ti.
pose bf evasion, will not necessarily subject it to condom.
RAlqcES, nation. ,But the evidence must be less equivocal than
(nuNHAm- that relied on in this case. The*proplerty was already
'& VANcaptured and libelled- as liable 'to Awerican capture,
ijoxLa's when the Claimants" lett " of tl,-'ibtlt Septumber Was
CLAIM.) written. To receive such evidence. under such circumi oYzR, stances, to so critical a point, woulo be to surrender
NZASTE. , every belligerentriglhtto fraud and-imposition. Theleftter
or the 22d (f August must, therefore, be taken on ItS plain
import, and such eilTct given to. it as Its worls imply.
This letter 'contains ap express exclusion of tir goods
under conside'ration ; but- it is contended" that,, as
Thompson's letter left thiem no latitude, but oPliged them
'either to choosd°dr rfuse the whole, their acceptance
of hark cast on them the property in the whole.
But we are of opinion that such was not the effect of
this art of the Claimants. *The consequence of such a
vioctrine would be that where a prolperty is to be acquired 1upon a 6ondition performed, the condition 'may
bercjected, arid yet the property acquired. It certainly
pul.t
it 'in the power of the blippers either to cast the
whol" property upon the Claidmants, or resume the pro.tcrty; and make the consignee accountable for that
whicli had come to his hands. Falconer, Jackson &
Co. upon the arrivai of the Frances, had she not been
captured would hve had an undoubted right to demandlte shipment made by her, on the ground of the
Claimats' not having accepted it within the time linjited apd ifwould have been in vain for the Climants
to hae cointestcd their' rig ht,, whilst they held the letter
ftthe 22d of Augis.t,* and Thompsoh's instructions on
-the suibject of the acceptance, If,thea, it rested witl
Thoibion' or i.agent to k'etain the piojperty in this
shipment, & cast it upon the Claimants, the consequen6e
is,
that the. legal interest, still remained in the shil)pers.

ST his conclusion' on the state of interest in the parties, enders it umieqessary tu consider the argument
urped to e)cept this case from the rule relatte to changes of property in transitw: and we hope It will be, at
all' tims, recollertcdthat the reasoning inthis case ii
not ftubded' on the implied' admision of the'distinctioq
taken by the Claimants' cohnspf on this subject,

