FEBRUARY TERM i8ig.
States, as appears -by a subsequent adjustment of his U. STATE;
accounts at the treasury in the sum of 3,153 dollafs and
T.
6 cents. By the 5th section of the act of the 3d of xRYA
March, 1797, under which this priority is claimed, it is & WooDdeclared that where any revenue officer, or other per- cocic.
son, hereafter becoming indebted to the United States
by bond or otherwise, shall become insolvent, &c. the
debt due to the United States shall be first satisfied.
The Court is of opinion that Hendrickson was indebted to the United States before this act passed, that
is, at the time of the death of the collector, althQugh the
accounts of the latter were not ettled until after its
passage; and that, therefore, the law which secures a
priority against the estates of persons who shall thereafter become indebted, does not apply to this case. The
judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

THE BJIG CONCORD, TAYzon,

1815.

M1ASTL.

March

1th.

Absent....TovD, J.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Circuit if captured
Court, affirming that of the District Court, whicl re- fPoaa ried
neutral
stored to the Claimantsx neutral Spanish merchants at oYner, be by
Tenerife, 20 pipes of ,wine, part of the cargo of the cn.et r.l
urtrder
British brig Concord, captured by the Americanpriva- une
*teer Marengo, in August, i812, without piaymeut of da-.nn aaertiards
fe
fa
ties ; although the same had been, by consent of th
proctors for the parties, sold under an order of the Crt, thd'proprareh'-reteeds
Court.
doted to
The cause being submitted without argument;

stored to ruth
•

STORY, J. delivered the opinion of the Court, as follows:

thethe
oner,
amount or
dutiC3 due to

US. upog

then imrtatioa
f
go-Xh rWust 40

This is the case ot a stupment made by a neutral Pq.,
house on board of a British ship which was captured,
on a voyage from Teneriffe to London, by the private
armed ship Marengo, and brought into the port af New

388

SUPREME COURT U. S.

York for adjudication. Pending tile prize proccedlngs,
the goods were sold by an interlocutory order of the District Court, and the proceeds brought into the registry.
Upon the hearing, the property was decreed to be restored to the claimants without payment of duties ; and
this decree was afterwards affirmed in the Circuit Court.
The cause has been brough't, by appeal, to this Court
for a final decision.

TRE
33RIG
PONCORD,

AITLOR,
31USTER.
----

We are all of opinion that the proprietary interest of
tiue claiindntg is completely proved ; and therefore the
decree of restoration must be affirmed,
With respect to the duties, we are all of opinion that
the decree of the Courts below was erroneous. Where
goods are, brought by superior force, or by inevitable nocessity, into the United States, they are not deemed to
be so imported, in the sense of the law, as necessarily to
attach the right to duties. If, however, such goods ai'o
ffterwards sold or consumed in the country, or incorporated into the geperal mass of its property, they become
retro-actively liable to the payment of duties. In the
present case, if the goods had been specifically restored,
and afterwards withdra;wn from the United States by the
Claimants, they would have been'exempt from duties.
But having been sold, by order of the Court, for the gencr al benefit, the duties indissolubly attached, and'ought
to have been deducted from the proceeds by the Courts,
below. The decree in this resnect must be reversed.'

THeE 'NEREIDE, BJ[ENNnTT,
MIach

MAST

4 R.

6th.

AJbsent....ToDD, 3.
THIS wa an appeal by Mfauel Pinto, from the sentence of the Circuit Court for the distriot of New York,
affirming (proformc) tile sentence of the District Court

which condemned
that part of the cargo which was
.
iy," that free claimed by him.

The gpul.
t

in k7+ea-.

"ships shall

9' make free
1' go"
doe

pat imply

The facts of the case are thus stated by the chief
the justice in deliveing tte opinion of the Court.

