FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
as its authority.

But that case is not suggested to have so Jmis.

been determined contrary to formei, praCtime 1W formi-r
opinions. Nor do vw perceive any reason for -suppf sing it to be contary to the rute of other nations ift a

similar case.

OFSUGARI

.
noTE&OT~n.s.

The opinion that ownership of the.soil does, ip some
degree, connect the owner with the property, so far as
respects that soil, is an opinion wiich certainly.pre.vails very extensively. It. is not an unrc asonable opinion. Personal plioperty miy follbw the person any
where; and its character, if found on the ocean, may
depend on the domicil of the &(kn.er. But land is fixed.
Wherever the ow-her may reside, that land is hostile or
friendly arcording to the condition of the country in
which it i.; placed. It is no extravagant perversion of
principle,'nor is it a vilent offience to the course of human *opinien to say that the proprietor, so far as
respects his interest in this land, partakes of its character; and that the produce, %%hile the owner r-mains
unchanged, is stihject to the same disabilities. Inrondemning the sugars of M r. Uentzon as enemy property,
this Court is of opinion that there was no error, and the
sentence is affirmed with costs.
EVANS '. JORDAN

AND

MOREHEAD.

_______March

3STs.
2dJ.

.fbsenzL...ToDD, J
This was a case certified from the Circuit C0urt for 1-Iie Kt or
in Nhmicla, the judges were diVid- Janw','I-QM
the district of Virginia,
thewhthetaterth
upon
in~ ~~~
ed inopinixn upon the question. whether after the CXpiI- crolietr F.ration of tihoriginal patent granted to Oliver Evans,a %-,s,: not
general right to use his discover-, wag not so vested in :lowoe
the public as to require and justify such a construction of rtwI h' an act for the hiner Lethe act passed in Januarv 1808, entitled ,,
relief of Oliver Evans" as to exempt from eifher single pirtInm~crb
r u
or treble damages, the use, subsequent to tihe pasage ofe potent
the said act, of the machinery therein mentioned, 'lich dhe tu" r
it after
to tie expiration
was erected subsequent
' 1=ing
l"
•
,•the of the original totl,.?
patent and previous to the passage of the said act. The th. latter.
act (re. 9 V. 20.) authorizvs the secretary if state to

issue letters patent to Oliver Evans in the manner and
form prescribed by the geneial patent law, granting to

SUPREME COURT U. S.
EvAws

him forthe term of 0 years the exclusive right of mak-

lv.

ing, using, and vending for use the machinery in qiies.
tion, ",provided, that no person who may have hereto-"
& mo n- ,fore paid the said Oliver Evans for license to use his
:EAD. ",said improvements, shall be obliged to r~new the said
license, or be subject to damages for not renewing the
"same; and provided alio, ihat no person who shall have
,used the said improvements, or have erected the same
JORDAN

"for use, before the issuing of the said patent, shall be
"liable to damages therefor."
HARrn, for the Plainti.
The former patent of the Plaintiff having expired,
congress, in consideration of the particular circumstances of his case, authorized a new patent to issue for another term of 14 years. Between the expiration of the
old and the issuing of the new patent, the Defendants
had erected and used and continued to use the Plaintiff's
machinery in the manufacture of flour, contending that
they w re protected by thu proviso of the act of .1anuary
21st, 1808.
We contend that the proviso does not authorize them
to coritinne th lius of the machinery after the issuing of the
new iatent, but merely protects them from damages for
having used and for having erected for use the machinery in question, prior to the issuing of the new patent.
The second patent was intended to place Evans in
the situation in which he would have been if the first patent had continued in force. 'XCeI)t as to his eight to
damages for acts done in the interme'diate time between
the first and second patent. If the Defendants chose to
cotinue to use the machinery after thp new patent, they
were "bonind to pay for the right to use it.
E. I. LEE, and P. B. KLnY, contra.
If the construction contended for on the other side bo
correct, the proviso was wholly 1s'less, because the Dfilndants niedd no sach protection. Evons could have
no claim against them for acts done after hispatent had
(kpired, aid before the istuiug Gfthe new paftent. The
ffefendants had a fu! and perfect right to erect and use
the machinery. A law to. oblige them now to abandon

FERRUtARY TERM 180 .

~zo-f.

their property, or to pay what Mr. Evans may chqse to EVANS
v.
exact, is in the nature of an expostfaeto law; and although"it may not be absolutely unconstitutional, yei is JoRTDAN
so far within the spirit of the. constitution, that tlis & mlOr.Court wifl not give such a cinstruction to the proviso, UEAD.
if itcan possibly be avoided. The proviso sa. s that rtperson -'woshall have erected the machineryfor use, shatdl
be liable to daihages therefor. The Derindautg had
erected the machinery for use, and are cansequently not
liable therefor. What can the proviso mean, unless to
give those who are in the situation ofthe Debrndants the
right to use their own machines lawfully erected , The
inventions had become public property ; every one had a
right to use them. Congress did not mean to take swvay
that vested right from those who had availed themselves
of it. 'To deprive a person of the use of his property is
'equivalent to depriving him of the property itself. Congress could not mean to do this., This Court will give.
the act such an equitable construction, as will give effEt
to the proviso.

Hkurzu, in reply.
The words of the proviso are clear and explicit, and
admit not of construc'ion. Tlm legislature may have
supposed that the new patent, which was intended to be
a continuation of the old one, might have sul-jected those,
who had already erected the machinery, to damages, and
intended to guard against them. It is not certain that
under the law, under which the patent issued, this would
not hav6 been the effect-but it is sufficient if the legislature supposed it would have been. We are nat bmimd to
show The motives of the legislature--.if their words are
clear and explicit, there is no room for construction.
The acts which are prote-ted by th. proviso are. act
done before the issuing the patent; the opposite counpel
contend, that the legislature, when they said cc before,"
meant after.
The proviso is too plain to bear an argument.
.th.
.MarchI
WAsHINGTON,

as follows:
VOL. IM

,lbsent...ToDD, J.

T. delivered the opinion of thb Couv
2

SUPREME COURT U..So
tVAS

-v.
JORDAN

& MWORPILAD.
--

The question certified to this Court, by the Circuit
Court for the district of Virginia, and upon which the
opinion of this Court is required, is, whether, after' tile
expiration of the. original pa.ent granted, to Oliver
Evans. a g'neral right to use his discovery was not so
vestel in the public as to reqidre and justify such a construction of the act passcd in January, 1808, entitled
- an act for the relief of Oliver Evans" as to exempt
from either treble or single damages, the us, subsequent to the passage of the said act, of the machinery
therein nientioned, which was erected suhscquent to the
expiration of the original patt nt and previous to the pas.
sage of the said act.
The act, upon the construction-of which the judges of
the Circuit Court, were-oppos,-d in opinion, directs a patent to be granted, in the form prescribed by law, to Oliver Evans for 14 years, for th- full and excliusive right
of making, constructing, using. and ve'nding to be used,
hisinvention, discovery and improvements in the art of
manufacturing flour and meal, and in the severlal machines which he has discovered, inviite,, ii,,provCd, and
applied to that purpose.
Th. provisb upon which the question arises is in the
foUowing words : ,'provide.l, that no p.'rson who may
have heretfrwe paid the sAid Ojiver Evans for license to
use the said impr)vemens. shdl he.obhged to renew said
license, or be suhject to damages for nt renewing the
same ; and, proided alqo, that no person who sm.all have
used the said improvemoits. or have erected the sa no
for use, before th." issuinX of the said patent, shall be liable to damages ther 1w."

The language of this last proviso is so precise, and so
entirely free from all ambiguity, tiat it is difficult for
any course of r-asoning to shed light upon it. meaning.
It pr;)tects against any rlaim for '3amagos which Evans
inight make, those who may have used his improvements,
or who may havb erocti.d them for use, priorto the iss iig
of his patent under this law. The protection is;
limited to
acts done prior to anather act thereafter t be perrormed,
to wit, theiqsung,,ftw patent. To extend it, by constriction to acts which might bl done s..hseqient to the issiting
of the patent, would be to make. not to interpret the law,

FEBRUAJtY TERM i8is.
The injustice pf denying to the Defendants the use of EVARs
machinery which ttle. had elrecti-d alttr the expiratiomiof
V.
Evans's first patent and prior to the passage or this law, zon AR
has been strongly urged as a reason %xhythe words of & woimthis proviso shouid be s'o construed as to have a pros- READ.
pective operatitin. Bt it should be recollected that the right of the Plaintiff to recover damagts lir using his
improvement after the issuing of his patenL under this
law, althougi it had been eected prior thereto, arises,
not under this law, but under the general law of the
2istof February, i793.* The provisoes in this law
profess t6i protect against the eperation of the general
law, three classes of persons; those ilio had paid
Evans for a license prior to the p.tssage of the law ;
those who may have used his improvem, nts; and those
who eayl7 c erectea them for use, before the issuing ot
the patent.
The legislature might have proceeded still further, by
providing a shield for persons standing in the sitpatiod
of these Defendants. It is believed that the reasonableness of such a provision could have been questioned by
no one. But the legislature have not thought proper to.
extend the protection of these provisocs beyond the issuing of the patent under that law, and this Court would
transgress the limits of judicial power by an attempt to
sup-vly, by construction, this supposed omission of the
legislature. The argument, founded upon the hardship
of this and similar cases, would be entitled to great weight,
if the words of this proviso were obscure and open to
construction. But considerations of this nature can never sanction a construction at variance with the manitest
meaning of the legislature, expreszed iii plain and unambiguous language.
The. argument of the Defendants counsel that unless
the construction they contend for*be adopted, the proviso is senseless and inoperative, is susceptible of the same
answer.
I. The.5th § of the dct of 21st of lebruary, 1793, vhlch is the only zcctkn
of that Aeiwhich gives damages for violation of the patent right, is repealed bY
the 4thl.ofthe act of'the 17thof April, 1800, vole5, p. 90 the Sd §c4" .hich
act gives ireble dmnages, for the violation of any patent granted purmaant to
that act, or the act of 1793.

SUPRkM

COURT U. S.

BVANS

Whether the proviso was introduced from abinidant

IV.

caution, or from an opinion reAlly entertained by the legislature that those who migit have erected these improvements or might have used them prior to the issn
of the patent, would be liable to damages for having done
so, it is impossible for this Court to say. It is not
difficult however to imagine a state of things which
migt have afforded some ground for such an oplhion.

JORDAN
MORB-

&

HBAD.

Although this Court has been informed, and thejudge,
who delivers this opinion knowvs, that the former patent
given to Evans had beeh adjudged to be void by the C ircuit
C"urt of Pennsylvania, prior tb the passage of this law,
yct that fact is not recited in the law. nor does it ap'pear
that it was within the view( of the legislature: ant) if that
patent right had expired by its own limitation, the legisature might well make it a condition of the'new grant
that the patentee should not disturb those who had violated the former patent. This idea was certainly in the
mind of the legislature-which passed the act of the 2ist
of February, 1793. which after repealing f he act of the
loth of April, 1790, preserves the right,- of patentees
tinder the repealed law only in relation to violations
committed after thG6 passage of the repealing lai.
If time decision above menitioned was made known to
tile legislatlee, it is not impossible but that a doubt
might have existcd whether the patent was thereby rendered void ab initio, or from the time of rendering the.
judgment; and if the latter. then the proviso would afford a protection against all preceding violations. But
wlmatever might be the inducements with the legislaturo
to limit the provi:o, *under consideration, as we find it,
this Court cannot introduce a different proviso totally
at variaice with it in language and intention.
It is the unanimous opinion of this Court that the act
passel ili January, ISO8. entitled " an act for the relit
of Oliv.r Evans," o,,ght not to be'so construed s to ex.
erupt from either treble or single damages, the use, subeqem to the passage of the said act, of the machinery
therein mnntioned. which was erected subsequent to the
expirittion of the original patent. and previous to the pas..
sage of the said act. Which opinion is ordered to be certified to the Circuit Court for the district of Virginia.

