FEBRUdARY TERM 1815.
tRages assessed upon the first breach of the condition of U. STATES
the bond assigned in the replication of the Plaintiff.
V.
GIL ES
2: That judgment must be given for the Defei- &OTHBRS.
dents as to' the several sums of 20,613 dollars and 12
cents, of i,374 dollars and 77 'cents, of 9,895 dollars
and 09 cents, of 10,718 dollars andos cents, of 16483
dollars and 44 cents, of 6,238 dollars and 35 cents, and
of 4,470 dollars and 68 cents, being the several sums
assessed, as conditional damages on the second breach.

S. Thatjudgment must be given for the Derendants,
for the suina'of 5,255 dollars and 73 cents, being the damages assessed upon the fourth-breach, and
4. Thatjudgmen: nnst he given for the Defenoants
for the 'um of 309 dollars arid 87 cents," being tbe,
d~ma$ges assessed upon the fifth breach,

THE UNITED STATES -. 30B L.

AIBEAR.

8i5o

,*senit....Toxrn, 3.

THIS
darc
was a
certitled from the
jircuit
Cot prt'ac or
for tife district of .Vermont, tl~e opinions of the judges ofpcu cr
which Court were opposed.

IneanWR dthe

Baiber was indicted, - for that he, being a citizen atorcr,.
ofthe Gth of
of the United States, and inhabiting'the same, withtforce july, 1810, to
and arms, at;" &c. ", did attempt to transport overland Prolult Amethirty head of fat cattle which were then ad there arti- rro preecles'of provision and munitions of war, and were all of ing to or t-d.
the value of 300 dollars, from a place in the United 9mN
States, to wit: from Berkshire, in the said district of uditce State ,Vernont; to a place in the province of Lower Canada, and for otder
to wit: to St. Armons; in the province .foreaid, contrary to the form, force and effect of the statute of the
United States, in such case made and provided," &c.
There was another* count in which he was charged with
hejctual transportation of them. After a verdict against
him,. he obtained a rule to shew cause why jqdgment

SUPREME COURT U. S.
n3t he.arrested, because f6t cattle were neither.
should
provisions
no" munitions uf war within the meaiiing of
the act of'congress, entirled it an act to prohibit Ameri-can vessels from pm.ceeding t or .trading 'with the enemios .bf tile United States, and for oteze purposes" or
any other act of congress.

u. STxT.s
.V.

ToB L.
31ARB.n.

By the second sectionof the act referred to, which was
approved on the StM of July, f8i2, vol. i, p. o00, it is
enacted, " that if any citizen of the United States, Or
person inhabiting the same, shall transport or attempt
to transport, over.land,.or otherwise," "tnaval or military stores, arms, or thle munitions of war, or any article
of provision, from any plaue of t e United States,. to,any
place inUpper or Lower Canada, Nova Scitia or New
Brunswick," c the -person or persons aiding or privy to
the same shall" "t be 'considered, as guilty of a inisdomeanor, aod b; liable to be fined in a sum not exceedilg
five hundred dollars, -and imprisoned for a term, not exceeding six months, in the discretion of the Court."
Ofarcl 7th. Absent....Tonui .
This Cou'rtordcreditto be'ceitified tothe Circuit Court,
that it is the'opinion of this Codrt that fat cattle. are
provisions, or munitions of war, within the trme Intent
and meaning of th act, entitled " an act to prohibit
69 American vessels from proeeding to or trading with
4 the enemies of the United States, and for other puri poses."

THE SCHOONER ADELINE. AND CARGO.

IS.
Tdrch

3&

-

Abstnt..'..TODD, J
AAereianpro

.

THIS was an appeal 'from the sentence of the Cir-

Xerty er. ,cuit Court for the dibtrict of New Yorkfuteitmay be

American letter,of
Paymt
o marque, s~hooner AjirL.x z,
restoredof",
The
~y et.Onijan Tlhe
-ava-,
ai- sailed from Bourdeaur for the 'United States with a carthough the

!-go, owned inpart by citizens-of the.United States, and

