FEBRUARY TERM iuoi
THIRTY HOGSHEADS OF SUGAR,
(4drianB Bentzon, CLivlaIt,)

is1g.
Mmb

3

V.

BOYLE AiW OTHERS,
Bein; the ojfl-ers and crew of the privateer Comet.

bsent....ToDD. J.
APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court-The produ
for the district of Maryland,'condemning SO boa-sheads an en" ne
of sugar, the property of the Claimant, a Danish sub- Con . as
ject, it being the produce of his plantation in Santa ho tile prcrCruz, and shipped
....after the capture of that island by the t
y b.belongs
on - to
to
British, to a house in London for account and risk of the owner or
the -Claimant, who was a Danish ofticer and the second th 90, %,hain authority in the government of the island before its hl n"
capture; and who, shortly after the capture, withdrew, ck-rteter in
es
and has sine resided in the United, States and in Den- or
mark. 13y the articles of capitulation, tht inhabitants may [e hj
were permitted to retain their pronerty, • but could only pI
derm Ifr
ship the produce of the island to Great Britain. 'his Au hlnl in
sugar was zaptureil in July, MO8,after the (lel.atfon the teDo.-zy
of. war by the United States'against Great Britain, anchots, e, ih
lilielled as British property.

n.&ur.u, for the AIppelannt, made two questions,

toed be
"s mmderan eve.
4e3y Cnioar.

In".ecn

a

qucotirm OgLr.
lau, If naths,

1. As this case within the- rule ot the British prize ths C"rt Wil

Courts, that the produce of a plantation in an enemy's
Fir fiel_
country shall be conisidered. .while s'lch prodace4remains relIu Cqeu
the property of the-owner of the soil, ,s the property.o"
'an enemy, whateVeV may bh the general. national character of the owner?
2. Ifit be within that rule, is th rtle to be ronsitle,ed in this country as a rule o'f nation~i law?

1. Sir William Scott, in laying down tie rule in the

case of the Phrint., 5 Ro-0. 26, '0, refers to the onse of
J-tffrow Gatlrinain 1783, and the reason of the rule

seems to be that the proprietor or thesoil-inc6rporates

192

SUPREME COURT U. Sj

30 mmns. himself with the permanent interest, of the count D .
OF SUGAR The rule is'modern,. and several exceptions have been
V.
made to it. In the case of the Phmnix the claim was
BOy.
made by persons of, Germany for property taken on a
&OTHERS. voyage from Surinymr to Hlnand, and described as the
produce of their estates in Surinam, which was then a
colony of Holland, with which Great Britain was at
war, G:'rmany being neutral. Sir Win. Scott admits
that ifthe estates had been purchased while Surinam
was in the posse.ssion of the British. the case would not
have been Wvithin ile general rule. So in the case of the
Diana, 5 Rob. 60. (Eng. Ed._) those who settletd in De.
.nararawhile it was under British protection, were held
not to be within tile rule; aid fll, case of the Vroiw
Alnna Catharina, '5Rob. 161. (Eng. Ed.).is' anot.her
modification of the rule. These cases were i xcupted,
because the proprietors had not incorporated themselves

'zvitl. the perman7ent interests of the ation.
In the present case Mr. Bentzon never incorporated
himself with the interests of theAritish nation. either

permanently or

yemporarily.
Tile. character was forced

upon him against his will ; he always diclaiind it.
He was by birth, and always continued, a Danish subject. He did not voluntarily purchase. a plantation in
the country of the enemy. When he purchased his estate Santa Cruz was neutral. The occupation of the
island by the British was temporary ; it was ni-ither permanentin fact nor in law. Peace has restored the island to Denmark. Mr. Bntzon could not, by means
of -his estate in Santa'Cruz, incorporate lilmsdlf permanently with the interests of Great Britain.
2. But if the case comes wvihin th British rule, are
we to adopt that rule, and'extend it to a neutral nation
which has never itself adopted it.
It is but the ordinary case of a neutral carrying on
'Eis lawful trade with our enemy; and has nothing in it
contrary to the law of nationS.
The rule contended for is a mere arbitrary rul6, col-.
culated to extend the field of rapine and to increase the
maritime power of Great Britain. We have no interest
in aiding those views.

FEBRUARY TER?

iMg5.

What is the law of nations? Not a rule adopted by 30 minn.
one nation only,,but the law ef nature, of reason, and opsuGAR
V.
ofjustice, applied to the intercour.e 4 nations, and adinitted by all such as are civilized. What is thure in no1YLnr
the code of any other nation to support thi6 rule? It is &OTrns.
to be found only in"the maritime code ol Great Britain;
which is not more binding tipon us than that of any
other maritime power. It can have no force with us,
but in cases where the rule of reciprocity or of retaliation will justify its use.
But Denmark has never used nor acknowldged the
rule; and, therefre, we cannotju.stly entirce it ag..nst
her. But if this Court should adipt the rule, we trust
it will be with the strictest limitation.
PiNKNEY, contra.

By the capture of Santa Cruz by the British, it inimediately became the colony oif an enemy. It is not
necessary that the occupation should be peTetual ; for
the time it ias indefinite, and during the occupation it
was as much the colony of an enemy as any of his dther
possessions.
If, then, Santa Cruz was an enemy's colony, its produce, while it remained the propert) .of the owner of
,th soil, was the property of an enemy. Sir W. Scott,
in the case of the Phmnix, 5 Rob. 21, (Eng. Ed.) says
that the rule has been so repeatedly decided both in that
and the superior Court, that it is no longer open to discussion. No question can be made upon the point of
law at this day.
The opposite argument goes to show that if the property in the soil be acquired before the capture of the
island, the owner would not be considered an enem3 oalthough the island should remain permanently a British
colony.
The case of the Phonix contains nO exception to the
general rule; it is, however, said that the case of the
Dianashowd an exception ; but that was a mere question of domicil. The rule now under consideration was
not discussed.

VOl. IX.

Z

SUPREME COURT U. S.
0 nrls.

It is said that the party, in order to acquire the hos

eF SUGAR tile character as to the produce of his estate, must in'V.

corporate hitnself with the ints.rests of the ontmy while
the soil is in possession of the enemy. But the rule is
& THERS. not so. There is no dffrence whether lie acquire the
estate before or after it come into the possession of the
enemy ; if he continues to hol the estate, he becomes
immediately incorporated with the nation jure belli.
ioY,

But it is asked, is Great Britain to legislate for other
nations? We say no. But this Court will pay great
re.spect to the English decisions on this subject; especially as the ruk has been acquiesced in by all the nations
of Eurvpe. Not one of thiem has renmonstrated-not
even Dt-nmark. It has, therefore, the positive aulhority of England, and the npgative authority of all the
residue.of Erope. 'l'iv rule- is not harder than that of
domicil, to which it is analogous.
HARPER, lt Ireffly.,

It is said that the rule is general, because all the nations of Europe have a;'quiesced in the English deci.
sions. Sev-ral reasons may he given- f,.r this appearance of acquiescence. It is a recent rule. Ne autho.
rity can be produled for it earlier than 1783, jst at
the close of the American war. Peace hain.Ng immediat.ly tnken place, removed tlhe ea ,se (if con plaint. And
as to the late war with France. no case of the kind app-a?.s to have arisen. The edicts of France, &c. had a
diffiirent bearing. :It is said that the rile is analogous
to that of doam cil. Rt the rule of domiril rests upon a
difrerent principle-the princ!ple of alleoianee and tlio
safety of the state. A man found in tile enemy's country at the breaking out of the war receivesu the protection of that country, and is hound to do n ithing. to its
injury ;' and if he do not remove in a reasonable timn in
to be considered as having incorporated himsrif with
theInterests' of that country. The rule of domiciU Is
rather a rule of municipal thsn of national law; and the
,principal ground of the rule. is the necessity of preveliting treastnable interours with th enemy. It becomes
a part of national law only when it'°i+ applied to neutrals. -It has no analogy to the rule now in question,

FEBRUARY TERI isiS.
which was adopted merely to prevent the interference 30 mins.
of neatral with belligerent richts.
OP SUGAR
"V.

.31arch41].

ABset....ToiD, .

MARSHA L, Ch. .delivered the opinion or the Court
as follows:
The island of Saita Cruz, belonging to the kingdom

of Denm~rk, was subdued, during the late %al., by the
arms of his Britannic majest3. Adrian Benjamin Bentzon, an officer of the Danish government, and a proprietor of land therein, withdrelv from the island ol its
surrender, and has since resid: d in Denmark. The
property of the inhabitants 'bieing secured to then, lie
still retained his estate in the island undcr the management of'an agent, who shipped thirty hogsheads of sugar, the produce of that estate, on board a British ship,
to a commercial house in London, on account and risk
of the said A. B. Bentzon. On her passage, she was
captured by the American privateer, the Comet, and
brought into Baltimore, where the vessel and cargo
were libelled as enemy property. A claim for these
sugars was put in by Bentzon; but they were condemned with the rest of the cargo; and the sentence was affirmed in the Circuit Court. The Claimant then ap.
pealed -tothi Colirt.
Some doubt has been suggested whether Saifta Cruz,
while in the possession of Great Britain, could properly
be considdred as a British island. But for this doubt
there. can be no foundation. Although acquisitions
mnade during war are not consideredl as permanent until
confirmed by treaty, yet to every commercial and belligerent purpose, they are considered as a part of thedomain of the conqueror, so long as he retains the possession and government of them. The island of Santa
Cruz, after its'bapitulation, remained a British island
until it Was restored to Denmark.
Must the produce of a plantation in that island, shipped by'the propribtor himself, who is a Dane residing
in Denmark, be.considered as British, and therefore
enemy property?

BOYLE

--

SUPREME COURT U. S.
30 n-ms.

In arguihg this questionj the counsel for the Clat.

Or §UGAR mants has made two points.
0.
BOYLE
&OTHERS.

-

1. That this case does not come within the rule applicable to shipments from ail enemy country, even as
laid down in the Blritish Courts of admiralty.
2. That the rule has not ocen rightly laid down in
those Courts, and consequently will not be adopted in this.
1. Does the rule laid down in the British Courts of
admiralty embrace this case?
It appears to the Court that the case of the Plienix
is precisely in point. In that case a vessel was captured in a -voyage from Surinam to Holland, and a part
of the cargo was claimed by persons residing in Germany, thei a neutral countryy as the produce of their
estates in Surinam.
The counsel for the captors considered the law of the
case as entirely settled. The counsel for the Claimants did not controvert this position. They admitted
it; but endeavored to extricate their case from the general principle by giving it the protection of the treaty
of Aniens. In pronouncing his opinion, sir William
Scott lays down the general rule thus: ,,Certainly
",nothing c;hn be more decided and fixed, as the princi",ple of this Court and of the Supreme Court, upon
-5very solemn arguments, than that the possession of
" the soil does impress upon the owner the character of
66 the country, as far as the produce of that plantation
d is concerned, in its transportation to any other coun",try, whatever the local residence of the owner may
4 be. This has been so repeatedly decided, both in this
" and the sop'.rior Court. that it is no longer open to
",discussion. No. question can be made oit the point of
",law, at this day."
Afterwards, in the case of the Mrrow Anna Catlarina,
sir William Scott lays down the rule, and states its reason. " It canno)t be doubted," he says, "6that there are
transactirns so radically and fundamentally national as
to.impress the national character, independent of peace
or war. and 'the local residence of the parties. The

FE3RUARY TE1BI 18ig.
produce of' a person's own plantation in tne colony of 30 YnIDs
the enemy, though shipped in time of peace, is liable to OF suoAR
be considered as the property of the enemy, by reason
-0.
that the proprietor has incorporated hiinse" with the BoYLE
,permanent interests of the nation' as a holder of the soil, &OTIMUr.
and is to be taken as a part of that-country, in that particular transartion, independent of his own personatresidence"and occupation."
This rule laid down with so much precision, does
not, it is contended, embrace Mr. Beutzons claim,- because lie has not " incorporated himself with the perma" nent interests of the nation." He acquired the property while Santa Cruz was a Danish colony, and he
withdrew from the island when it became British.
This distinction, does not appear to the Court to be a
sound one. - The identification of the national character
of the ovner with that orthie soil, in the particular transaction, is not placed on the dispositions'with which 1e
acquires the soil, or on his general rharacter. The acquisition of land in Santa Cruz binds him, so far as
respects that land, to the fate of Santa "Cruz, whatever
its destiny may be. While thai island belonged to Denmark, the produce of the soil, while unsold, wa, according to this rule, Danish property, whatever might be the
general- character of the particular proprietor. When
the island became British, the soil and its produce,
whilethat produce remained unsold, were British.
The general commercial or political character of Mr.
Bentzon could not, according to this rule, affect this
particular transaction. Although incorporated, so far
as respects his gc.neral character, with the permanent
interests of D.-umark, he was incorporated, so far as
respected his plantation -in Santa Cruz, with the permanent interests of Santa Cruz, which was, at that time,
IBritish ; and though as a Dane, he was at war with
Great Brita.n, and an enemy, yet, as a proprietor of
land in Santa Cruz, lie was no enemy : lie could ship
his produce to Great Britain in perfect safety.
The case is certainly within the rule as laid down hi
the British Courts. The next enquiry is: how far will
that rule be adopted in this country ?

98

SUP.REME COURT U. S.

SO u.DS.

The law of nations is thegreat source from which we derive tho5e rule., respedtingbelligereut and neutral rignts
whichaae recognized by All civilized and connerciia
no-irB , states throughout Europe and America. This law is in
&OTFERS.. partiunwlsitten, and in part conventional. To ascertain
that which is uiwritten, we resort to the great princi*pies of reason and justice: but, as these. principles will
be differently understoqd by. liffiet'ent nations'unfler different circumstances, we cQnsider them as being. in some.
.degree, fixed and rendered stable by a series of judicial decisions. . The, decisions of the Courts of- very
country, so far as they are founded upon a law conmmon
to every country, will be rcceivd, not as authority, but
with respect. The decisions' of the .Conrts of every
cowitry show how the law of ,ati,,n, in the given case,
is und.rstood in that country. and will be. considered in
adoptin.- the rule which is to prevail in this.
OF SIT6AR

Without taking a comparative view of the justice or,
fairness of the rules established in the British Courts,
and of tbiose~estiblishied in the Courts of other nations,
there are circumstances not to be excluded from consideration, whirh give to those rules a claim to our attention that wo cannot entirely disregard. The United
States havin.g, at one time, -forned a component part of
the British empire, their prize law was our prize law.
When we sepairated, it continued to be our prize law,
so far as it was adapted to our circumstances And was
not varied by the power which was capable of changing it.
Itwill not be advanced, in cnsequence of' this former
relation between the two countries, that any obvious
iniscotistructiou of public law made by the' British
Courts. will be corlsidered as forming a rule' for the
American Courts, or that any recent rule of the British
Co rtsis entitled to more respect then the recent rdes
of other countries. Buf a case professing to be decided
on ancient prificiples will not be entirely disregarded,
uiess it be very unreasonable, or be founded on a construction rejected by other nations.
The rule laid down in the Phmnix is said to be a
recent rule, because a case solemnly decided before the
lords bommissioners.in 17'831 is quoted ii the margin

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
as its authority.

But that case is not suggested to have so Jmis.

been determined contrary to formei, praCtime 1W formi-r
opinions. Nor do vw perceive any reason for -suppf sing it to be contary to the rute of other nations ift a

similar case.

OFSUGARI

.
noTE&OT~n.s.

The opinion that ownership of the.soil does, ip some
degree, connect the owner with the property, so far as
respects that soil, is an opinion wiich certainly.pre.vails very extensively. It. is not an unrc asonable opinion. Personal plioperty miy follbw the person any
where; and its character, if found on the ocean, may
depend on the domicil of the &(kn.er. But land is fixed.
Wherever the ow-her may reside, that land is hostile or
friendly arcording to the condition of the country in
which it i.; placed. It is no extravagant perversion of
principle,'nor is it a vilent offience to the course of human *opinien to say that the proprietor, so far as
respects his interest in this land, partakes of its character; and that the produce, %%hile the owner r-mains
unchanged, is stihject to the same disabilities. Inrondemning the sugars of M r. Uentzon as enemy property,
this Court is of opinion that there was no error, and the
sentence is affirmed with costs.
EVANS '. JORDAN

AND

MOREHEAD.

_______March

3STs.
2dJ.

.fbsenzL...ToDD, J
This was a case certified from the Circuit C0urt for 1-Iie Kt or
in Nhmicla, the judges were diVid- Janw','I-QM
the district of Virginia,
thewhthetaterth
upon
in~ ~~~
ed inopinixn upon the question. whether after the CXpiI- crolietr F.ration of tihoriginal patent granted to Oliver Evans,a %-,s,: not
general right to use his discover-, wag not so vested in :lowoe
the public as to require and justify such a construction of rtwI h' an act for the hiner Lethe act passed in Januarv 1808, entitled ,,
relief of Oliver Evans" as to exempt from eifher single pirtInm~crb
r u
or treble damages, the use, subsequent to tihe pasage ofe potent
the said act, of the machinery therein mentioned, 'lich dhe tu" r
it after
to tie expiration
was erected subsequent
' 1=ing
l"
•
,•the of the original totl,.?
patent and previous to the passage of the said act. The th. latter.
act (re. 9 V. 20.) authorizvs the secretary if state to

issue letters patent to Oliver Evans in the manner and
form prescribed by the geneial patent law, granting to

