EBRUARY TERM i8i.
N1'WER'S LEssEE -c. WALKER

AD AijoTnEr.

Isi.
Feb.

Obsent....LINGsto0,

,9tlh.

. STORY, J. 4- TODD, J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of irthr i3 o.
a ptaEast Tennessee, in an action of ejectment brought by thing Inco
the Plaintiff in error against the Defendants.tcnttfemim-a and dis-

lvacdtince, thetL
The case is thus stated by the chiefjustice in deliver- ina~be
ed ur%csand
by the ising the opinion of the Court. • .
for "' *r t"On the trial the Plaintiff prodiced two patents
5000 acres each, from the state of North Carolina, intthe,,m"
granting to Stockley Dou dson, from whom the Plain- ne.
tiff derived his title, two several tracts of land lying on Ci5.mdi,
-t.
Crow Creek, the one, No. i2, beginning at a box elder I-standing on a ridge corner to No. I, &c. " as by the I-rnamrd cb
-plat hereUto annexed 'will appear." Tfi plat and jic
All 3neds amc
lppw - to
certificate of survey were annexed to the grant.

hare been ua-

other t"' lly" urveyThe Plaintiff proved ihat there were eleven
f'om tan tho in.
issued
raah.
graits of the same date for 5000 cres
ofg rant to can
chain
a
as
the state of North Carolina, designated
ey he ln
inclugurveys joining each other fromNo. I to No. i,
sive, each calling for land on Crow Creek, as a general thi=tnalmr.
call, and the courses and distances of which, as described " 'in the grants, are the same with the grants produced to fer to a pk
ad
the jury. - It was ajso proved that the beginning of the ?.",lxed,
in thsatpb&4
Ir.
crs
.'ater
beginning
the
as
intended
and
maftked
was
first ,grant
corner of No. 1, but no other tree was marked, nor was be bud doun
td
any survey ever made, but tile plat was made out at ih
RaIeigh, and does not express on its face that the lines land, the toct
were run by the true meridian. It was also proved tha, mtdntonthe beginning corner of No. 1, stood on the north west cuide ethe w.
anand
side of Crow Creek, and the line, running tlienceterc
to carr as
crasraybe
n
is
patent,
plat.and
the
in
oalledfor
and
'down the creek,
south .40 degrees west. It further appeared that Crow to the plat, aCreek runs through a valley of good land, which is on lie thm r
an average about three miles wide,'between mountains do nt eerieunfit for cultivation, and which extends from the begin- pond'z tl
minig of the survey No. 1, in the said chain of surveys, tance men.nntil it reaches below survey No. 13,in nearly a straight tined in the
line, the course of which is nearly south thirty-five de- ptie,+ ,dbar

-SUPREME COURT U. S.grees west by the needle, and south forty degrecs west
by the true meridian. -That in the face of the ilats sinexed to the giantsi the creek is reprsenittl as running
tlrough aiid ac'oss each grant. The lines in the.certificato
of survey do not express!y call fIr crossinig the creek ;
but each certificate and grant calls gfner,ly lr homd
the certificate lying on Crow, Creek.
if the hues of the tra et hereto
of survey, nor
,e n
-re
No. 12 and i3,in Ilt said chain of
entioned
nee
the
cals or that surveys, be run according to the course of the needle and
wter-co rc. the distances cAlled for, they will not includo Crow
tlcr puaro
cvi- Creek or any pal t of it, and will not inclule the land
denu
.an be in possession
of the Defendants. If thty be run accordW en that the.
*-.
t.e .ti..
-,
m.IVE'S
x.ssht.
V.
WALKnR&
AN'OTHrZ.

surveyor in- itig to

tu
-tie meri~lian, or so as to includ

-

Crow Creek,

tende
pips d t6
the ex- they will include the lands in possession of the Defencomesac rd- dants. Whereulion the counsel for the Piaintiff moved
ing othetrue, the Court to instruct thejury,
:nd ootaccordinge themn-

ited, rer:. That the lines of the said lands ought to be run
diau.
according to the true meridian and not according to the
needle.
2. That the lines ought to be run so as to Include
Crow Creek and the lands in possession of tho Defindants.
The Court overruled both these motions and Instructed the jury that the said grant must be run according
to the course of the needle and the distan6us called for
in thd said grants, and that the same could not be legally run so as to include Crow'Creek, in(d that the said
graits "did not include the lands in posses, ion of the
Defendants. To this opinion an exception wastaken by
the Plaintiffs couisel. A verdict and julgment werp
rendered for the Defendants, and that'judginent is now
before this Court on a writ oferTor.'
The 'chief justice in stating the case, omitted the fact
that testimony ,wa.s offered by the Plaintiff at the triul to
prove 6s that the surveyor who. made the plats and cer- tificates of survey annexed to the grants, had regard
" to the .true meridian, and not to the course of the nee"fdie, in making the said certificates of survey, and in" tended the. courses of "the surveys so to be ruin ;"
which testimony w;s rejected, by the Court bblow, as
inadmissible-but the Court.admitted evidence it th

YEBRUARY TERM 18M6
"the generatpractce of making surveys by sur% eyors mqvnzu's
,has beeu to run to the courses of the needle."
LUSSn
V.

SwANt, for the Plaintiffin error.

WALRE- &
ANOTIE

The Court below ought not to have rejected the testimuny to prove the intentiun of the surveyor to run the
lines of these grants by the true meridian. It corroborates the plat annexed to the -grant. The rule of constructionas to grants from tie state, especially in Virginia, N. Carolina and Tennessee, diffiqrs from the rule
as to 9tiler deeds. Course and distance may be controled by parol evidence .of the actual manner inwhich
the survey mas niade,-andof the actualmarks and bounds
made upon the land at the time or the survey. The
Courts have not stdpped at a natur ,1object called for,
4.parol evidence be given triat according to the actual
survey the line extended be)onmd that object. The narks
contro1 the .ourse and distance of tie .patent. i &en.
and A fun. 77, Baker v. 'Glasscock. Taylor's X. Carolina
Rep. H16, Hayward's Rep. 238, 378-MI[S. Rep. Bount's

swee -o.. Vasters.

3 Call. .39, Herbert v. W[ise.

If the witness bad testified thit a survey fiad neen
actually made' and that it included the creek, it would
have been admissible testimony. But the' plat was intended th be a substitute for an actud hurvey. It was a
-part 6f tile. patent; annexed to it and referred t. by it.
-It
was as much a part of the patent as.if it had been insertedin it. It shows that the laid ought
be laid if"
so as to inrlude the creek, as p niuly as ifthe patent had
-eWpressed it in words. Th cnrse, squth AO degrees
:West, is ambiguous-it may mean a maghetic or a meridional course. The question is whatvag theorntention
of the surveyor? How shall it be ascertained? The
most direct mode of ascertaing it is to prove! his ddclarAtions .tthe time. It is true that by proving what was
the general practice of surveyors you mtvy infer his intention-but that.is a secondary mode',of proof, *andless
&ertainthan proof of his declarations at the time he made.
the particular survey in question. This is not-bringing
parol evidence to contradict or to control the plat, but to
corroborate and confirm it.
Ifa grant is 'apable of two co structions, the- Gurt

,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
must adopt that which is most beneficial to the grantee,
I Taylor's lep. 163.

mi]VER's

iEssEr
"V.

w t.KER&

JoN-ss, contra.

ANOTHER.

The general practice of tie country is to survey by
the compass, and ll the courses expressed in surveys
refer tj the magnetic meridian. A certificate of survey
therefore is always supposed to express magnetic courses
unless the contrary is expressed on its face. No parol proof can be admitted to contradict what is so strongly implied. It would be a dangerous practice-it would.
be a difficult thingIor a common surveyor to ascertain
the true meridian, and there is no I \v of North Carolina which compels him to do it. The testimony offered
vas not to prove any act of the surveyor, but his intentions.
There is no natural boundary called for in the patent, The general expression'that the land is on Crow
Creek, cannot control the course and distance. The
expression in the patent ",as by the plat hereunto annexed will appeal;," refers only to the courses and distances, and not to the actual location of the land. The
figure of a creek delineated on the plat, without any reference to it in the certificate of survey, catinot control
the boundaries actually described. Not a word is said'
about the lines including or crossing Crow Creek; and'
in order to include the creek you must deviate from the
straight line called for.
C. LEE, in reply.

The intent of a grant must be effectuated, if by ani
means, consistent "with the rules of law, it can' be done.
The intent of this grant cannot be' effectuated by the
mode of survey directed by the Court below. The plat4
annexed to thegrant, shows the intent to be to make the
-survey conform t,) the nature of the grfind so as to i.
elude the.creek and the valley, and exclude the moun'
tains. The law of North Carolina requires thoplat to,
b6 ann.exed to the deed. which is thereby, and by tho
reference to it in the body of the deed,- made .a part
thereof; and contains a plain .declaration that thw granj
tee shall have the valley through which the creek.runs;

FEBRUARY TERM isms.
On what ground could the testimony of the intention MzivEr's
of thesurveyor, have been rejected by the Court, when xzssr
V.
they admitted testimony to show the general -practice
to be to survey by the magnetic meridian,2 That general WALx LU&
practice was only a factfroin which thejury mightinfer, in ANOTLEU.
the absence of positive testimony, what the intent of the
surveyor was. It was a grade of evidence inf-ri-r to
positive testimony of the intention. It was only prima
facie, not conclusive evidence of his meaning. There
was no law of North Carolina which required the surveyor to go by the magnetic, and not by the true meridian. He was at full liberty to adopt the true meridian
if hepleased. We say he did so, and the plat itself isevidence-of the fact; for it could not otherwise be consistent
with itself. You must run the lines according to the
true meridian to include the creek.

Does not a difficulty arise in consequence of the grant
having been made without actual survey?
C. LEn.. That is a matter between the state and t.e
grantee. After a grant, no stranger can take advantage of such a defect. The state may wave the objection if it chuses to do so.
SwANN.
Ithas been settled, I believe in North Care
lina that when a grant has actually been made, n,- enquiry shall be made by the state as to the survey, &c.
In Hayward's Rep. 358 the judge says, -when ti
c rant has issued we can look no further back; all
" previous proceedings must be considered as regular."
Mvarch ist. .0bsent....TonD,.T,
D usuAuL, Ch. J: after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the Court as follows:

",It is undoubtedly the practice of surveyors, atd
the practice was proved in this cause, to expr:ess in their
plats and certificates of survey, the courses which are
designated by the needle; and if nothing exists to control the call for course and .istance, the land must be
VOL MX.s

SUPREME COURT U. S.
mti mL's bounded by the courses and distances of the patent, ac
LHiS
cordingtb the magnetic meridian. Bat it is a general
S". principle that the course and distance must yield to naWALKER& inral objects valled ° for.in the patent. All lands are
ANOTIUR. supposed to be actually surveyed,, and the intention of
tihe grant is to convey the land according to that actual
survey ; consequently if marked trees and marked cur,
ners be fouinid conformably to the calls of the patent, or
if water-courses be called for in the patent, or mountains
or any other natural objects, distances must be lengthened or shortened, and courses varied so as to conform
to those objects.
The reason of the rule is. that it is the intention, of
the grant to convey the land actually surveyed, and mistakes in courses or distances, are more probable :and
more frequent" thau in marked trees, mountains, rivers
or other natural objects caiable of being- clearly designated and accurately described. Had the survey in this
case, been *actually made, and the lines had called to
cross Crow Creek, the courses and distances might
have been precisely What they are, it might have been
impracticable to find corner or other marked trees antl
yet'the, land must have been so sni'veyed as to include
Crow Creek. The call, in the lines o' the patent, to
cross Crow Creek, would be one to which course and
distance must necess'irily yield. This material call is
mi~ted, an,] from its omission arises the great difficulty
of the cause.
That the lands- should not be described as lying on
bath sideq of Crow Creek, ni the lines call 11or crossing
that creek, ar such extrordinary omissions as tocreate consid-rabl- doubt with tho Court in dridinq whether tere is any. other descril)tion given, in the patent,
of s.iTi ient strength to control the call fop course and
distance.
'The injoritv of the Court is of opinion that there is
such a description.

rhe patent clises :ts description

of the land granted by a reference to the plat 'which is
annexed.

The laws of the state require this annexation. In

FEBRUARY TERM isiS.

I

this'lat, thus annexed to tSe patent and thus referid mlvEU's
to asdescribing- tle land granttd, Crow Creek is laid inssu.
dow n as .pissingtlirough the tiact. Every person, hay-.
-.
ing knowledge of tLe grant, would also have kno~iledge WALRIEn &
of the plat, and would, by that pla, lie instructed thatANIoTil~n.
the lands lay on both sides of the creek ; '1 here would
'e nothing to lead to a diffirent conclusion, but a difference of about five degrees in tl.e ctstrse, should lie run
out the whole chain of surves in order to find the beginning of No. i2; and he would know that such an error in the course would le corrected by such a gi eat natural object as a creek laid down bi the swu've)or ii the
middle..of his -plat. This would prbve, notwithstauding
the error in. the course, that the lands pn both sides of
Crow Creek were intended to beixicluded in'the, survey,
and intended to be granted by the patent.
It is the opinion of the majority of this Court, that
there is'error in the opinion of the Circuit Court Vir
the district'ofEastTennessee in this, that 0 c said C ult
.instructed thejury that the grant, under which the Plaintiff claimed, could not be legally run so as to include
Crow Creek, instead of directing the jury that the said
grant must be o run as to* include Crow Creek, and to
conform as near as may be to the plat annexed to the
said grant; wherefore it is considered b) this Court
that the said judgment be reversed and annulled and the
cause be remanded to the said Cirpuit Court that a new
trial may be had according to law.
The chief justice, added, that lie did unot think the
question about 'the true meridian had much to.do with
the case. The Cburt decided it upoi the plat. If it
had not been for the plat, they should have said thatthe land ought to be gurveyed by the magnetic meri.
dian,
DuvALL, J.
My opinion is that there is no safe rule but to follow
the needle.

