SUPREME COURT 1
18ib.

THE GROTIUS,

S.

SHEAFE., MASTER.

JabSent....TODD., T.

larch 10th:

Ih drder to
THIS case was continued from last term, for furthei'
copturte soam proof, (See ante, vol. 8, p. 456) and was now submittedi
act liould be
done indicative
of an intention

to seize and to

upon the, further proof produced, without argument.
WASHINGTO,

. delivered the opinion of the Court

retain asprize; as follows:
it is sufficient if
such intention
i anly to be This case comes before the Court upon an order foi
infer rdf
further proof, made at the last session inrelation to the
the conduct or
ss
the captor. •vahdity of the alledged capture of this vessel. The

master, the mate and two of the seamen of the Grotiut,
in answer to some of the standing interrogatories, swore,
that they did not consider the ship to have been seized
as prize,.and that the young man who was put on board
by Odiorne, the captain of the privateer, was received
and considered as a passenger during the residue of th6
voyage. The deposition of Veq, the alleged prizemaster, was taken and read in the Court below, in which
he swore that he was present at the capture; that Sijeafel.
the master of the Grotius, wag ordered to go on board
the privateer with his papers, and that he, Very, was
directed by captain Odiorne, in the presence of Sheafoi
to go with the prize, as prize-master, and to permit the
captain of the Grotius to keep possession of the ship't
papers and to navigate her into porL That he accordingly went on board as prizc-master'taking with h!m a
copy of the privateer§ commission and also written. instructions from captain Odiorne for his own conduct.
The deposition of Very, though irregularly taken in
that stage of the cause, was ievertheless calculated to
Welaken the prep.aratory evidence in relation to this contested fact, and to oirit out the propriety of a further investigation. The evidence of this witness lost much of
its weight fr6m the circumstance that his letter of instructions was not annexed to his deposition, or made
an exhibit in the cause. It was proper that this omission should besupplied by the captors, if it could be donej
and that they should have an opportunity to fortify th

FEERUARY TERM 18i .
evidence of Very, if in their power to do so. For thesc
reasons the order for further proof, was exiended as
well to the Qaptors as t6 tie Claimants. 'Under this o.der the captors have exhibited an attested copy of the
wri tn instructions to Very, bearing date. the 29th of
July, 18s. They inform him that lie is lit on board
the Grotius and direct him to proceed in the ship, and,
on his arrival, to report himself to the agent of the privateer wio.would take such measures as he might deem
necessary ;'ehat he is not to take char-e of the vessel,
but is to allow the. captain to take her into any poit in
the United States lie might see fit. :rhe authenticity of
this paper is ascertained by the affidavit of the prize
agent of the privateer, in which he -zwearsthat the oricginal was- delivered to him by Very, on his arrival, as
containing his orders, and that it has remained ever
since in his possession. The deposition of Very has
not been taken under the order for further pi'oof, but
the omission is accounted for by the prize agent, %%Io,
in his affidaviti swears that Very was captured fn a subsequent voyage, and had not since returned to the United States. Under these circumstances. the Court feels
no difficulty in receivlng his deposition originally taken
in the Court below. In addition to tie letter of instructions to Very, the collector of the port of Poirtsmouth
has furnished an extract from the journal or the privateer, kept on that cruizej which states E6that on the 30th
"'of July, 1813, tile Grotius itag boarded, and after an
ccexamination of her papers, a prize-master was put on
bboard of her, and ste was ordered to the first port in
"the United- States."
This documentary evidence is further supported by
the deposition of Mr. Wardwell, the surgeon ol the privateer, who swears that captain Odiorne itforimed tle
master of the Grotius, after he had come on board, that
he should make out a copy of his commission and should
put a prize-master on board, to whom le should gb
orders to suffer captain Sheafe to conduct his sbip into
axiy port of the United State lie should think fit; that
he would be further instructed to report to the custom
housp on his arrival, and to inform the agent of the privateer of his arrival. That a prize-master,'named
Very, was accordingly plac'd on board, with instruct ions
and a copy of the commission. This witness being ex7
VOL. IX.

THZ
GZOTXUSi
LZ
,AFXE
3l.STEM.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

Amined as touching his interest in this cause, swears

orious, that he has none, having for a valuable consideration
SYIAFE, .ssigiied all his interest in the prize to the owners of
MASTER.

--

the privateer. .T e only evidence given by the Claimants under the order for further proof is the deposition
of .ohn do Forest and the affidavit of captain Shcafe,
which corresponds Ntith his answers to the standing interrogatories ; and in addition thereto lie contradicts
the material parts of Wardwell's t'stimony. Do For.
rest was a passenger on board of the Gr')tius, and ho
swears that Very exercised no authority whatsoever on
board that ship, but was considered and treated as a
passenger.
Upon this evidence and the answers t9 the standing interrogatoiries, the cause is now to be decided ; and the only
question is whether the grotius was in fact seized as
prize of war. When the facts are ascertained there can
be very little doubt what constitutes in law a valid
seizure as prize. It is clear that some act should be
done indicative of an intention to seize and to retain as
prize; and it is always sufficient if such intention is
fairly to be inferred from the conduct of the captor.
Now in this case, the evidence of Very and of Wardwell. proving that 6aptain Sheafe was distinctly' informed thac his ship woul*- be sent in as prize, is corroborated by the written instructions to the former, which lie
delivered, on his arrival, to the prize agent, and by the
journal of the privateer, both of which documents correspond with the evidence of those witnesses. The former of these documents, written at the time when Very
was appointed the prize-master as h states, imports a
clear declaration nf the intention of captain Odioine,
and having been deposited, with the prize agefit inmmp
diately on the arrival of the Grotius, it cannot be presumed to have been fabricated to serve the purpose for
which it is now used.
Although the instructions do not call Very prize-master by name, yet they contain other equivalent expressions; for if lie was put on board merely as a passenger, what had he to do with reporting the vessel, on her
arrival to the collector, and particularly to the prize
agent?

FEBRUARY TERM 18io.
The evidence then on the part of the captor would be
THE
quite sufficient to establish the fact of a valid capture if GR0TXuS.
it stood uncontradicted. The only positive evidence sa;ArF,
against it, is the deposition of Sheafe, which is in direct M.AsTv.E.
oppbsition to that of Wardwell and Very. He swears
that Odiorne represented himself in the first instance as
the commander of a British privateer, and as such
threatened to put a prize-master on board and send him
into Halifax. That he afterwards avowed his real character, after which lie never spake of putting a prizemaster on board, but merely requested him to receive
Very as apassenger. He says that the first conver-atiqn
when Odiorne spoke of putting a prize-master on board
took place in the cabbin when Wardwell was present;
that the latter conversation was on deck when he was
not present.
Wardwell is equally positive. He swears that after
captain Odiorne. had distlosed his real character, he
told Sheafe that he should put a prize-master on' board,
and send him into any port in the United States he might
chuse, adding tldat lie might as well be prize to the privateer as be seized by the government of the United
States on his arrival; to which captain Sheafo a sented.
He further swears that captain Odiorne informed the
captain of the Grotius, that he should direct' the prize.
master to report himself to ithe custom house, .nd to the
prize-agent. In point of credit these witnesses appear to

be equal; neither of them having any personal interest in

the dispute. 13ut Wardwell is fully supported by Very
and their united testimony ,receives considerable aid
froay the instructions, and from thejournal of the privateer. They are alsosupported in some degree by the
answer of Chambers, one of the crew of the Grolius, to
one of the standing interrogatories, in which lie states
that Very, the day after his coming on board of ttat
ship, declared that he was put on hoard as prize-master.
The evidence of the mate, of de Forest, and of Prince,
is entitled to very little weight, because the two former
did not go on board of the privateer, and the latter. although he did accompany captain Sheafe to the privateer,, does not pretend that hi9 heard any conversation
between him and captain Odiorne: and being a common
seamen it is unlikely that lie should have been admitted
into their company. The evidence of these persons as

SUPREME COURT U. S:
to the unassuming conduct of Very whilst on board the

THE
PnOTIUS,

Grotius. from which they inferred that he was thero
merely as a passenger, is entirely consistent with the
IASTE.%. arrangement proved to have been made on board of the
privatecr that lie was not to interfere in the navication
of the vessel.

SHEAFE,

Upon the whole it is the opinion of a majority of the
Court that the validity of the capture of thoe Grotius as
prize of war is sufficiently established by the evidence,
and the captain having acquiesced in the subsequent arrangement as to the mode of sending in the vessel, she
ought to have been condenined to the use of the captors.
The dlecree of the Circuit Court condemning the ship
Grofius, &-. to the United States is reversed; and the
Court proreeding to) give such decree as the said Circuit
Court ought have given, it is further decreed and ordered that tle said ship be condemned as lawful prize to

th captors..
I81s.
Feb

GETTINGS -o. BURCH'S ADMINIsTRATIx.

02%

.ftbiseerror pn
It is error i,
the 'Orphan s
Couil fhr the cult
Washington
un1Y (r in.the

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the CirCourt for the district of Columbia, aflirrning that of
Orplhan's Court for the county of Washington.

the district of
Columbia
to
On the 13thilgeide a cause
ngainstthe an--urc,,
filed in
-swer of a Dc- setting
feidiant, if thr '

of February, 1813, the Appellqe, 3ano
the Orphan's Couirt a petition or libel

fol-th that by an order of that Court on the 11th
1805, the property of the deceased in her hands
beer. denicdby was delivered to the. Appellant who had become one of
a repitin ;.her sureties in the administration bondin the year1803,
Answerhadnt of June.
2nri ifthere be

1

no evidmene i and who obtained an order of that Court to sell the
the recording same. That he had made no return of sales, nor rencon ausoier dercd any account of his proceeding,
but still has tim
property ini
his possession, consisting of a negro woman
and her four children ; and praying that the property
may be re-delivered to her, she having been appointed
guardian of the infant children of the deceased, and he

