SUPREME COURT U. S:
THE
VCIETE,

neutral vessel has been allowed freight for a cargo not
taken with her. There is no lien on on. cargo for

31-Er N- freight which may accrue on another.

The Court can

perceive no principle on which a cargo to be deliverpd

SON,

MASTER; freigh, free can he burthened with the freight agCrec to
be paid on a cargo to be afterwirds taken oi board.
In this case, too, no sum in gross is to be paid for Creig lit,
but a sum dependin- on te quantity anti quality of the

return cargo. 'As between the captor and neutral ownei., the Court cannot consider this as one entire voyages
but as distinct outward and inward vJyages,
If the claim to freight on fie return voyage, not coinmeneed at the time of capture, cannot be stl,tained, the

Court perceiveos no other rule which could imve heen
adopted than that which the district Court did adopt,
Freight hais been allowed On the whole voyage to Amelia island as on a quantum meruit.
Thn captors not 'having appealed. no question can
arise on the propriety of having allowed the ship any
freight whatever. The Courtp however, will say that
it is satisfied with the allowance which is made,, and
which is certainly an equitable one.
The sentence is affirmed with costs.
The officers of the Rattlesnake and Enterprize, armed vessels of the United States, offered a-petition to this
Court to be permitted to claim for themselves and tlheir
crew a share of the prize in the case of the Societe ; alledging that tley are entitled equally with the officers
and crcw or the G-n-boat by whom the said (,argo was
liielled ; which pi-titirn was rejected, and the claim was
not'recrived ; it bring the opinion of this Court that the
claim of. the pntitioners must be made in the Circuit
Court, to which tihe cause is remanded.

1815.
Feb.

THE UNITED STATES v. GILES AND

OTHEns,.

-25d.

.Absent....ToDD, J.
THIS Was-a case certified from the Circuit Court for
beror the
d ab or s ofr- the district of New York, in which the opinions of the
Ifa nmarhal

FEBRUARY TERM 1s1.
'udges of that Cout't were opposed' upon ton questions u. srAXTs
of law arising out of a special -Verdict.
V.
GILES

It was an action of debt bropglit by the United States &oT3EnV*,
against Giles, late marshal of the district of New York,
and his suretits, upon his official bond, dated the 9th jf'IboI, reJan4ary, 801, the condition of winch was aw follows: "Civet uo
Giles hath. been
,Whereas the above bound Aquila
"
+ i upi netducothe
United State2,
Tointed the ma.rshal, in and for the New York distr ct .... ti
iMpursuance of the'act, entitled "c an act to establisl the rom die
Now, therelore, co ktrYet.o
judicial Courts of the United States,"
t..
c o of
tinto
the
the condition ,,f precedin.;heobligation is such, that iffothe U.
the. said Aquila•~~~~i
Giles shall,
, hn"i
"j"iby himself and by his depfi- Stntofeocts
to
ties, faithf' [y execute, all htvful precepts directed to thile
t,dhe tO
marhal of tile said district under the autho','ity of tie ,iui M3oA-

United States, an.] true returns make, and in all things det bg.,, e.
well and tr. ly and without malice or partiality, perorin wma
.t
therefdr
the duti,.s of the falice of marshal, in and for the said ilale
di-1rict of New YOLk, ditring his coldinuance in the said athough the
re ntun
money
office. and take only his lawful fees, then the preceding
S "in
the marobjigati-n .o be void, or else to remain in full force.and
h
virtue."
after th exeD

cation rfih

The Defentlapts pleaded performance. The replica- q,,re I Whetion set forth six breaches of the condition of the bond. dier the care.
ties in a mat-.
bial's hvnd

1. That the United States having, in Olay, 1799, re- co:,tioaied ro,
ecovered judgment in the district Court against one John ti
Lamb for the sum of lt27.952. dollars and 99 cents, debt, duty, "durin
was
a writ offierifacias,
and 20 dollars dina,
• " -s,
-.in thrre- ]th-ntn..a"M
the ld1 of.-;
upon issued and dehivered to the Dtfe.tdant, Giles, then iceae tabj
being niatrslial, upon which he returned in August, 1799, for
money r-"
that he hail taken goods and chattles to the Value or 50 fiLe.
dollars, ivhich remained unsold for want of buyer.1, vat
fromofice,
whereupon a writ of renditioni exponws and fieri facias, oulnn
aexe.
ina
wlhich
was isst-'d and delivered to t0%said D'fendant, Giles, on remi, jt,,ht
the
the. 9th of January. 1800, by virtue. whereof he sold the O rtdS
goods and chattles fur 50 dollars, which sum he re.aid
ceived ; and als', by virtue of the said writ, sold lands Tucomptrolof Lamb to the amnunt 6f 60.000 dollars, which sum lie wryf t.iqr"
received and continuedto hold until the 1st ofFebnriry, m.
,,180t, when he converted ti.e same to his own use, con- nr-~l to
Uhumn
lie rdichI
frary to the tenor and effect of the condition of his said Ir"no~e.re.
bond.

tr

upon
fldl

SUTREME COURT U. S.
'..
STATE'S

1.

2. That by virtue of the said writ, the Defendant,
Giles, on tile 17th of' ,September, 1800, sold othitr lands

oiLw.s

of Lamb, for 60.000 dollars, which he received oil the
20th day of January, i8o, and on that day converted the
sane to his own use, contrary to the tenor and effect of
urcn'ion, a d the condition of the bond.

,&0TajIns.

a payment -e,'orfngtosuch
drections is

3. That on the 17th or December, 1800, the c~mptrol.od, and it ler f the treasury of the. United States directed tho Dc-

availhimself fendant, Giles, to pay into t.e oflceo of disconnt and dC-

fpit
up.n
the
,trilt
wthout

posit of the bank of the OnitvdStates, at New York, to
Imain'submit- te credit of the account of the treAsurer of tihUnited
tcdit-aelaim States; all sulch suims of money as should be made from
tothe account-t . property of Lamb, .[ -ntu or tila estud writ.

the lefendant, Giles, afterwards, on Ihe 23d of
-Odebtor IfDeeemher, 1800, hl-virtue of that writ sold other lants

the treasury. That
the U. Si-ates

of Janb,to the amount of 60,000 dollars, which he recan, at the tri;Mset of a ceived on the 15th of January, 1801, but has not paid thc
debt due' to same, nor any part thereof', into the said office ol' dishim by the U. count and deposit in the manner directed, contrary to
states, nless the teor-'and effect of the condition of'his said bond.
such claim
sballbhwe been.
zibrnitted to
teaccol'ting

4,. That on the 1st of February, 1801, the Defendant,
s

o..icei's or th, Giles, being marshal as' aforesaid, had in his hands as
Irunsti7

and, marshal,- 1-1 bonds, the property of the United States,

by them e-(particularly described) And on that day convertedl the
.jectod,
ex
prtiuayAndy
sn1 rtht
same, to his own use, contrary to the tenor and effect of
irdedeases
fr
ie condition of his bond aforesaid.
ty the .tut the

5. That the Def'ndant, Giles, having, in Soptember
1800, made Vthsu-n of 309 dollars and 87 cents, by yirtoe of a fieri facias, in behalf of the United States,
against one Richard' Capes, and having receiv d the
same, eonverted it to his own use on the ist of [l.ebruaty.
-I801, contrary to the tenor and eftect of the condition of
his bond.
6. That the Defindant. Giles, having so received all
fhe st ;-cral sums of money before mwntioued, retained
the' same in his hands until the 27th of Riarch. 1801, when
lie was duly removed and dismissed fron his office of
marshal, ind ceased to be marshal ol' the New york district, and has retained the said several stuns of' uoncy
in his hands ever since. That en the 2d of June, 1804,

lie
was duly notified accordinn to law, by thO coIpt'ol-

FEBRUARY TERM- IM8i.
ler of the treasury of the ,Uiited States. to render to the u. STAT.s
V.
auditor of the treasury of the United States on or before
the l0th of October, then next, -'ll his accounts and GIL S
vouchers for the expenditure of all monies received by &oT,,S.sw
him as niarshal of the New-York district, but he has never
rendered the saw,- ; contrary to the tenor and effect of
the condition of his bond aforesaid.
'The Defendants rejoined,

I.. To the first breaAh, that the Defendant, Giles, re.ceived file sum of 5o dollars, and stid the lands of Lamb
for 30,000 dollars and no more. That by the orders of
the comptroller of the treasury of the United States, he
received on the 10th of December, IS00,fromn the purchIqsers 11,000 dollars,'and no more, in cash, in part of the
said sum of 30,000 dnllars, and took from them, by tile
like. orders of the said comptroller, tlieir respective bonds
and mortgages, 30 in number, fir 19.000 dollars being
th-e residue of the said sum of 30,000 dollars. That on
that day the-United States were.justly indebted to the
said Giles, in the'suin of 20.000 dollars, for money paid
by him at.their request for their use, and for fee. justly
due by them to him as marshal, and for services perltrnx ed by him for them at their request, when ie.retain-A
in his handsthe said sums of 50 dollars, and i,000 du.
Jars, as it was lavful for him to do. in part payment and
satisfaction of the sum of 20.000 dollars so due to him
from the United States, and then and there delivered to
the United States, the said -everal bonds apd mort.-pa.es
in full payment and satisfaction of the said rpsidue of the
said sum of 30,000 dollars. Without tud, that he converted to his own uie the said sums of 50 dEloln- and na.000
dollars, in the replication, in asigning tie first breach
mentioned, or any part thereof in manner and form. &c.
any otherwis' than by retaining the satd sums of B0 dollars and 11,000 dollars as aforesaid.
2. To the second breach, they say, flat on tle Ilh
of December, 1800, the Defendant, Giles. by virtue or
the said writ, sold other lands of the said Lamb for the
sum of 29.-83 dillars and so cents, and no more, and
that by order of the comptrollr he received f'om. the
purchasers bnly the sum of 10.000 dollar., and took
their bonds and mortgages, 30 in number, for the pay-

2
*i

.SUPREME COTRT U. S.

u STATrS'ment 'ofthe balance,. beingwip383 dollars and*S0 cents.
v.
That the 'United States were on that day justly indebted
GILES
to him in the sum of 20,000-dollars for monies expended,
&dTH.RS. &c. and for fees, and services, &c,whrrel'fire lie retvined in'his hands 8,950 dollars, part of the 10.000 dollars
in part payment and satisfartion of the said sum of
.0,0OO dollas ; and paid to the United States the snm
of'i,050 dollaritlie res'due of the said sum oP 10.000
dollars, dnd delivered to the, United States the '0 bonds
and mortgages aforesaid in full payment and satisfaction
of the.aforesaid sum of 29.83 dollars and 130 cents ;
iwitlmit that, that the said Giles converted to his own
use, &q. otherwise than by retaining the siid sum of
8.950 dol'ars as aforesaid, &c..
S. -Tothe third breach, they say, that the said Giles
did not receive 89,000 dollars, parcel of the szaid t,0.000
dollars, but that le received in all the sun. of 21000 dollars only from the buyers of the lands of the' said John
Lamb; and that the United Statf.s w-ro on the said 15th
of Janiary,J.801, justly indebted to the said Giles, in
the sum of 22,000 dollars, wherefore lie did not pay the
said sum of 21,000 dollars or any pait thervof into the
office of discount and deposit of the bank oC the United
States, &c. but then and ,there retained the same in his
own hands, ai it was lawful for him to do, &c.
4. To thiefourth breach, they say, that the said Giles,
-on th..Ist of February, 180ig delivered th,! .said bonds
to the attorney for the United States-tvithott that, that
he converted them to his own use, &c.
S. To the.filth breach, they say, that on the 8tt of
.antarij, 1801, the United States were'justly indebteit to
Giles. in the sum of 22,000 dollars, wherefire he retained
'the said sum of 309 dollars end 87 cents, in part payinnt
and satisfaction of the said sum of 22,000 dollars: w'ith.out that, that he otherwise converted ilih same to his own
use, &c.
6. To the sixth breach, they aver, that Giles did render his accounts to the auditor on the 10th of OctOherp
180A., as he was required to do.

. To these rejoinders, there weri general sur-rejoinders.

F~EBRUARY TERM .18i5

Wi

and issues, except as to the rejoinder to the tldrd brea~h; u. stAr&=
V.
upon which the Plaintiffg took issue as to 39,000 dollars,
and demurred as to the retainer of the 21,000 dollars, GiL s
upon which demurrer the Court gave judgment for tht &OTfERS.
United States.
The jury found a special verdict which state. in substance, as follnwa1. .6s to t7iz first breach, they find that the Defeidant,
CGiles, wa, authorized by the officers of the treasury depattment of the United States, in executing the afeesaid
'writ oi fieii facias to sell the lands of the said John
Lamb, on the folhwmg terms, viz. one fourth of thq
purchase money to be paid- in vash, one fourth with interest in 2 years, one fourth with interest in 3 3 ears. ,Ind
the residue With interest in I years froim t'ie day of .Je;
to be secured by bonds and morigages ; and was d;rected by the comptroller of the treasury, on the 17th of
December, 1800, to pay over all monies lie might retelft
therefor into the office of 'discount and deposit of the
bank of the United States, in the city of New York, to
the credit and account of the treasrrer of the United
States. That the sales were comtenced oin the t6th of
November, and continued from time to time to the 23d
of December, 1800. That Giles received from the purchasers beore the. 9thlday of Janury, i801, (the date of
the bond) 3,713 dollars and 98 cents, and ip more, %hich
sum, together with th sum of 50 dollars, which lie. had
before received for the sales of the goods and chattels of
thesaid John Lamb, lt neverhad, nor any pfrt (hereof, befoe,the said district Cou-t, to render to the United States,
and never paid the same, no any part thereof, into the
said. ffice'of discount and deposit, and thaiL he has never
been required by any rule or order of the said district
Cojirt to bring thd said monies into the Court, nor to.
pay them overin any manner whatever. That between
August, 1800, and May, 1801, he arrested one Elias
-Eicks by virtue of a wilt of ca. sa. in favour of the United States, for 80,000 dollars, and by an endorsetnent
thereon was directed to levy, by virtue thereof, 33,19
dollars and 38 centsj besides marshal's fees'and poundage. That lie kept the saidfliclks iii custody, in execu
tion, fintil he was discbarged by order of the secretary of
the treasury of the United States, pursuant to the act of
VOL. IX.
!-8

SUPREME COURT U. S.
U. str-tis con.gress, entitled "can act providing for the relief

V.
r

IcLEs

&OTHERS.

----

e,

"6persons imprisoned for debts due to the United States."
That the pdundage fees For the'service of that writ, if
any such fees were due to the Defendant, Giles, thereon,
have not been paid to him, and that they amounted to the
sum of 419 dollars and 67 cents.
-That the United States also became indebted to the
Defendant, Giles, in the further sum of 8,133 dollars
and 96 cefits. for his own fees and services in taking
the second census- or enumeration of the inhabitants of
the United States in the said district; and formonies
paid by him as marshal as aforesaid to his assistants in
taking the said census, pursuant to the act of congress
iii such case prqvided, which several sums, so due from
the United States to the said Giles, amount to thesum of
8,553 dollars and 53 cents, and that lie h airetained the
said suas of 50 dollars and 3;713 doflW-s and 98 cents,
froin the times when tey were received by him, and still
retains them, claiming to hold and retain'the same toWards the payment and satisfaction of an equal sum duo
to him from the Unito d States as aforesaid. But wheth.'r upon the whole matter aforesaid, the said Giles did
in law convert the said geveral uums of 50 dollars and
.,713 dollars and 98 cents to his own use, contrary to
the tenor and efct of the condition of his said bond, the
jurors aforesaid are ignorant, &c. Ind if the said Giles
did so convert, &c. they assess the damages at 3,73

dollars andQ8 cents, and if, &c.
I. Xs to thesecond breach, they lind, that the said Giles,
liaving receive.! such instructions as aforesaid from the
compt:roller of the treasury, and, having sold the lands
as aftoresaid, arterwards, .and after the _9(h of Jan uary,
1801, (the date of the bond) and at different times before the.commencenent of this suit, received of certain
other pitrcbas .rq of the said lands, several other sums
of money, viz: before the 27th of ilarch, 1801, (whe
he was removed from office) the sum of 1,68S dollars
'52 cents

; apd after that day the gum of 17.49i dollars
and 38 centq, which two sums ainounf to 18,876 dollars
and 10 cents, which was all the money he received from

the said purchasers after the 9th of January, 1801 ; and
that the ponndage. and charges due to and paid by the

said Giles upon the execution pid the said sales, and

FEBRUARY TERM 1 1 .
legally clarg(uble against the procee.dii of le said u. STATES
v.
sales amounf'd to the sum of 1.33%dollars and 85 cents,
which being deductrd ft ,m the s-id stum of 18,875 dol- G l s
lars and 10 cents, left the ilet sutti of 17,n2 dollars and &o uHrns.
25 cents, in the hands of the said Giles, if the money so
received by him after tihe 9th day of Jinunry, 1801.
fThat (in the 13th of April, 1803, lie paid part of the
same, '.iz: 6,238 dollats and 35 rents to Edward Livingston, who was then the United Statts' attorney fur

the New York (iistvict, which payntent %%as so made
wzeith the assent and approbation of the comptroller nf the
treasury of the Uited States, awd -greeably to the ustige

and pr. ctice in that disti ict; that the said Giles never
bad the said sum of 6,238 dollars and 85 cents. nor any
part thereof. lif-fore the district Court to rendr Zo tile
United States and has never paid the same to the United States, ii an) other manner than by the said pay.ncutto the said Edward Livingston (if' such payment
was a p.,yuseut to th, L nited States) and never paid the
same, nor an) part. thereof into the oflce of discount
and deposit, &c.

That as to another part of the said sum of 17,542 dollars and 25 cents, to wit: as to the suin of 14,479 dollars
and 68 cents, the said Giles nt ver had the sante, nor
any part thi reof, before the district Court to rende, to
the United States, nor paid the same into the said office of
deposit, &c.but has ever since held and retained the
same, claining to hold and retain the same towards payment and satisfaction or an equal sum so due to him by
the United States as aforesaid.
That as to the residue.*of the said sum of 17,512 dollars and 25 cents, to wit: as to the sum of 6,821 dollars
and 2.5 cents, the said Giles never had the same, nor
.any part therecf, before. the district Court to render to
the United States, nr paid the same to the United
States nor into the office of discount and deposit. &c.
but still retains the same ; bnt whether, in law, iek converted the-sai'l three sums, viz: the 6,238 dollars'aud
35 cents:--4,179 dollars and 68 cents.---,and 6,821 dollars

and 25 cents, or either of them to his own use contrary
to the tenor and effect of the ct ndition of his said bond,
they are ignorant, &c; If in law he so converted the
whole to his own use, then they so find and aspess

SUPREME COUAT U. S.
vi. sTA'Prs damages 'at 20,613 dollars and 12 cents. If he did not
soconvert the first of the said three sums, but did so
V.
GqnEs convert tile other two, then they so find anti assess da&OTHERS. mages, at 14,374 dollars and 77 cents. If ho did not so
convert the first and second of the said three sums, but
did so convert the third, (hen they so find, and 'assess
damages at 9,895 dollarsand 9 cents. If he did not so
convert the said third sam, but converted the two first
siums, then they so find, and assess damages at 10,718
dollars and S cents: It lie (lid not so convert the
said second sum, b~it converted the first and third sums,
then they 'so find and asct'ss damages at 16,133 dollars
and 44 cents.- If he did not so .convert the two last of
the said three sums, but converted the first, they'so
lind and assess .damages at 6438 dodlars'and 35 cents.
If hie did not so convert the first and third of the said
three sums, but converted the second, theu they so find,
and ass,.ss damagcs at 4,479 dollars and 68 cents. And
if lie did not so, convert either of the said three sums to
his own use, then they so find.
-

s. As to the thied breach, the jurors find that the Defendant, Giles, did not receive ihe s;im of 39,000 dollar ,
andias to the judgient upon the deniilrler rcsperti
the rettiner of the sum of 2t,000 lollars, thQ) "assess
dl'amages at 21,060 dollars and 6 cents.
4. As to ti-e4th breach, dicy find that the D6fendant,
Giles, kelit possession .of the said fourteen bonds, from
-the 1st of February, 1801, until the. 3d of.January;, i803',
when he delivered tirin with the assenf and, approbation of the comptrolhvr of the treasury or tle United
States, to Edward' Livingston, then being the United
States' attorney for the district of Nrw. York. That on
the 12th day of the same January, the comptroller '6f
the treasury ofthe United States directed the said Giles
to deliver the said fourteen bonds to his successor in office, John SwatIvOLt, marshal of the said district, which
tile said Giles did not do.
But whether upon the whole matter aforesaid) be did,
in law, convert the same bonds to his ovn use, contra.,
ry to the tenor and ffect of the condition of his said
bond, they are ignorant, &c. and if, &c. then they assess damages at 5),255 dollarp -andV3 cents.,

FEBRUYART TEIM :8..
S. As to the fifth breach, they find, that the Defer- u. STAT's
T.
Uhant, Giles, .haviing levied and received the said sum of
309 dollars and 87 cents, never had the same before onEs,
th:- di~tric't Couit to r1nder to the. United States, nor &oTiL-E.
paid ihe. same'to the United States, but retains the same
claiming to hold it in payment and sattslhaction of so
in ,ch d to hini by the United 9tates as aforesaid, but
wheth-'r in law he converted the same to his own lise,
contrary to the tenor and- effect of the condition of his
said bond !hv are. ignorant-and if, &x. then they assess dawages at S09 dollars aknd 87 cents.
6. As to the sixth breach, they find that the Defendant Gds. (lid not render to the auditor of the treasury of the United States all his accounts and voucherq,
&-:, in manner and form as the Defendants in their rejoinder nave averred, and assess damages at six cents.
This cause came up to this Court in the year I81,
with a certificat- from the Court.below, that after argumnnt upon the special verdict thereunto annexed, " it apt, peated that the opinions of the judges were oliposed
"n'pon all the points subnzit d by and in the said spedial
,-oerdict, and thereupoui at the request of the attorney
if the United States for the said disfrict, the judges
6c of the said Court Have directed this disagreement bf

"6opinion to be certified," &c.

The cause was argued in this Court at Febr.uary term,
1.812, by DA..&.,s 4- PINKNia, for the Unitedt States,
and by HARPER, for the Defindants.
But this Court, upon inspecting the record, was of
opinion that the p)ints on whirh the opinions of the
judges, of the Circuit Court were. opposed, were-too impprfectly stated to enable this Court to form an opinion
thereon.
Whereupon the cause was remanded to the Circuit
Court, and came back with a certificate that the opidlons
of the judges of tiat Court were opposed upon the ten
following questions arising on the said special ver-

dict, viz:

1. Whetherjudginklit ought to be.iven for the Plain.

SUPREME COURT' U. S.
v. STATEs

tiffs or for the Defendants, as to the sum of .3.763,dol.

v.

lars and 98 cents, being the damages assessed upon the
first breach.

GL S
&OTLRES.

2. Whether, &c. as to the sum of 20,613 dola~s and
12 cents, being the first sum assessed as conditional da-

mages upon the second breach.
3. Whether, &c. as to the sum of 14,374 dollars and
77 cents, being the second sum assessed as conditional
damages on the second breach.
4. Whether, &c. as to the sum of 9,895 dollars and 9
cents, beingthe third suim assessed as couditional damages on the sccond'breach.
5. Whether, &c. as to the sum of 10,718 dollars and
3 cents, being the Fourth sum assessed as conditional
damages on the second breach.
6. Whether, &c. as to the stem of 16.133 dollars and
4, cents, being the fifth sum assesscd as conditional damages on the second breacl,
7. Whether, &c. as to the sum of 6,238 dollars and 35
cents, being the sixth sum assessed as condit,1nal damages on the second breach.
8. Whether, &c. as to the sum of 4,479 dollars and 68
cents, being the seventh sum assessed as conditional damages on the second breach.

9. Whether, &c. as to the suth of 5,255 dollars and
V3 cents, being the damages assessed upon the fourth
breach, and
10; Whether, &c. as to the sum of 309 dollars and 87
Axnts, being the damages assessed upon the fifth breach.

The cause was now again argued by Jerns, for te
United States, and HARPER, for the Defendants.
On the part of the Defendants ft was contended,
1.

That the obligors in this bond, are not answers-

FEBRUARY TERM f8iS.
ble for the money received by Giles, before the date of u. STATws
V.
the bond.
2. That he had a right to.rctain the amount due to
him by the United States.
3. That his receiving the bonds was not an official
act for which his sureties are liable upon this bond; but
if it was, that le was discharged by delivring them
over to E. Livingst-n, the attorney of the United States,
with the assent of the comptroller of the treasury.
4. That the sureties upon this bond are not liable for
the money received by the Defendant, Giles, after he
was removed from office.

5. That the payment of the 6,1238 dollars and 35 cents,
to E. Livingston, the attorney of tWe United States, for
the district of New York, with the assent and approbation of the colnptroller, was a good payment to the United States, and ought to he applied to the discharge of
the firit money which Giles received.
1. This bond is prospective. It covers no past frainsie received 3,763 dollars and 93 cents, begressions'.
fore the date of the bond, and the. Unitelt States being
indebted to him at the same time in a larger amount. lie
immediately applied and retained it in part satisfaction
of their debt to him. If he had no right so to do it was a
conversi'm of it to his own use; and thtt conversion
took place before. the date of the bond. Tite Defdndants
therefore are. not liable therefor oipon this bond. If
Gil s is answerable (hr it to the United States, it.is not
in this action.
2. The Defendant, Giles, had a right to retain iii his
hands the amount which was due to him from the United
States.
This is not claimed as a set off, but as an eqpitable
deductioi to be taken into view by the. Court in deciding what sum is to be recovered under the penalty of
this bond. By the 26th § of the judicial art, vol. i. p.
65, it is provided, " that in a/ causes brought before eithc er of the Courts of the United States, to recover the

GILES
&OTJLE.S.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
u. sT.,T

s

o

"-forfeiture annexNc ,to any articles of agreement, cove.

"6nant, bond or otker specialty, where the forfeiturei
breach or n in-performance shall appear by the default
&o'rH~as. "or confession of the Defendanit. eo'ulion demuirre, the
",Codrt, before whom the action is, shall renderjudgment
"'therein for the Plaintiff to recover so nuch us is due
6, according to equity." If then in thit cae there had
been juJgment b3 default or upon demuri'er, or even
-upon confession, the Court must have drcided up,,n th'
principles of equity. The case, if not within the words
of the statute, is within its spirit. He who seeks equity
must do equity. But the Dt fendant, Gi1i', was not a
comnion debtor of the United States. He,was an agent
of the government, or a receiver (f money, ;tndb ound to
account for what he received. To accouitt, is to retain
what'he had a -right to demand, and to pay4 over the
lpply' to the
balance only. If this principle does nut
lioundage in the cMe of Hicks, yet itr lOes to his expenses and comipensation in' taking theceustns. Bythe
.act ofcongress of the 28th of February, 1800, -6ol. 5, p.
21, it was mad his duty to coimnence thiw jbsiness of
taking the census, op the fiest Monday in qugust, 1800p
and to close it in nine. months, and h was authorized,to
employ assistants, and if he did, not- make his returri
within the period limited, hewas liable tQ'a ponalty of
80 dollars. The act provides forthe co'nipensation, of
the marshal and his assistants, but no appropriatioxi of
money was made by congress for his payment# intil af.
ter- th6 service had been performed, nor unil March
The
.1pi, 1,. of 'the Uhited States, vol. 5; p. so.
niarsha hOl only three ways to obtain the mohey n'.
cesary for this' btsiness, viz.: 61ther to ndvane his
ojwwmoney, which he was pot i)q_" to d, or to get an
f4ance from the treasury, which it-riad no right to make,
or-7t apply therooney of the United States in his hands
for that purpose. Congress having ordered him to do.
the. work, .av'e him- the-ri.ght t6 use 'all the necesgatTy
means. The jury has found the fact absolutely that the
United States was'indebted to him at the time, which
fact cannot now be denied. .His obligation was not ab.solutely topay over all thke monet which he ieceiVed,
l utto account for it. - If lie shows tliat he expended it
for the use ofthe United'State f in a work whiih he was
required to perform, he accounts for it. Wiwas not
strictly retainingthe money, but applying it in a manner
in which he was authorized to apply it
G;Es

,,

FEBRUARY TERIDI 8 5.
He was also entitled by law to the poundage upon the u. swA s
ca. sa. against Hicks. BY the act of the 28th of Febo.
TatWY, 1799 "ToL.4, p. 273, the marshal is allowed "c for
or.ns
all other services" not therein edumerated, ,such fees &oTzll.
fr and compensation as are allowed in the Supreme
Court of the state, wherein such services are ren,dered., *
3. Itwas not the official duty of the marshal.to take
the bonds from the purchasers of ther vroertky. He
was only bound to execute all lawful precepts, according to the law of the land. HP could officially sell for
money only; nit on credit. If hy the order of the
comptroller he sold on credit, he did not do it as marshal, bukt as the agent of the treaqury departmFnt. The
condition of his bond is, that he shall-faitlifulli do his
duty. His sureties are mnt liable for any act not done
in the couxse of his duty.

But if he did act as marshal in receiving the bonds,
yethis delivery of them to the attornery of the United
States, with the assent of the comptroller, is a complete
discharge; and if it were not, and jr the delivery of them
to the.attorney of the United States be a conversion of
them to his own use, it was after his removal from office. and the Defendants are not liable for it on their
bond.'
4. T he sureties upon this bond are not liable for money received by the Defendant, Giles, after 1hi removal
from office. The condition of the bond is that li shill
during is
faithfully execute the duties of marshal
continuance in the said oAf:' .Adthittinig that, for the
purpose 6ffinishiifg -e business in ]li" hands at the
time of his.removal, his authority may continue quoad
hwo, yet the liability of his surtiep is expresslylimlited,
by their ?ontract, to the time of his conlinuance in offwe.
It is like the case of Orlington '0.X.erricke, 2 Saund. -i1,
which was an actioTi by the post-master general against
the sureties of one of his deputies, upon a bond, the cqndition of which Was, " that whereas the Plaintiffhad apLTvrloST0N, -J.
It has been settled in tie Courts of Now York that
upon a ca. sa. the sheriff i; entitled to poundage upon the wiole sum due.

But upon a . fa.
he is only to rceive poundage upon he surn rceired.

VOL. IX.

SUPREME COURT U. 9.
pointed one Thomas Jenkins his deputy, &c. to execute
the said officefrom the 24itA of Jne next comnhtg, jbr the
GILfrs term of Rix months neit.folloving, now if the said Tho&OTHERS. mas Jeikins.shallfo and dnring al the, time that he shalt
contuwt dqputy post-master, &c.execute all the duties,"
&c. The breach assigned was in not paying over monies received by Jenkins, after the eapiration tf the term
ty six months, and upon demurrer it was held that the
Defendant was only bound for monies received within
the six months. So in the case of Barker, executor of
P1,ott v. Parker,1. T. R. 287, the condition of the botid'
was that one J. 11. should pay to E. Pyott, his executors
or administrators, all such monies as lie should receive
belonging to the said E, P?%ott, his executors or adminiAtrators; *but it was held that the Defendant was not, liable for'monies received by J. H. beldnging to the execttors of Pyott in their own right. S6 also in the case of
the Liverpool Waterworks company 'v. .tkinsoet, a .East.
507, the. condition of the bond, reciting that the Defendant had agreed with -the Plaintiflp to collect their revcInues '6from time to timefor tWetlve months,"and afterwards stip -lating that 66 at all times thereafter, during
the continuance of such, his employment, andfor so long
as he should contitnue to be employed," liewould
justly account, &c. was hdld to confine the obligation to
the period of twelve months mentioned in tjie r~cital.
A similar decision was given by the Supreme Court af
Pennsylvania. in the case of the Commonwealth v,!l1entoli, 4,DaU. 282, upon a sheriff's bond.
U. STATES

-V

5.- The payment to the attorney of the United States,
which is found to have been in conformity with the usago
InNew York, and with the assent and approbation of
the cpmpti-ller of Jhe treasury, is a good payment to
the United 'States.
The United States are represented by their attorney, as
to every thing relative to actions, in the same manler
as a common person is represented by his attorney ; an
attorney at la% has a right, within the year and day
after jud-gment, to receive payment of the debt, and to
enter satisfaction of the judgrnent upon the record.
Doug.'6~3, Yates v,Freckleton. I Com. Dig. lit. attor,iey, B :0. The 6omptroller i' the agent of the United

FEBRUARY TERM i815.
States for the purpose of assenting, and his assent binds u. STATrIS
v.
the United States.
GIES

The Defendant, Giles, received 3,763 dollars and 98 &oTErns
cents, bWfore the date of the bond, and i,683 dollars and
52 cents, after that date and before his removal fron.
office, making-together the sum of 5,47 dollars and 50
cents. The paymient of the sum of 6,238 dollars and 35
cents to Mr. Livingston, not having been specifically
appropriated to the payment of any particular part of
the amount due from Giles, we coptencd ought to be applied to the paymel t of that part of the money which
he first received, which will discharge all that the Defendants an be liable for upon their bond.
Oa behalzfof tiw United Stales, it was said.
I. As to the mioney received by Giles before the date of
the bond, it remained in his hand at the time the bond
was exeduted. It was-as much his duty to pay it over
afterwardp as it was before; and by not paying it over
he was guilty of default for which his -sureties are liable.
Besides the writ was not returnable until after the date
of the bond, and there was no breach of his duty until
after the writ was returnable ,when he ou.ght to 'have
had the money in Court to render to the United States.
2. As to the marshal's ri.ght to retain money due to iim
by theU. States, it was said, thatthe claim hever han isepn
submitted to the accountingofficersof the treasury. agrea.
bly to the -provisions of the act of congress of the ia of
Marc4, 1797, .voL 1, p. 423. § 1, by which it is enactea.

• that in suits between the United State.and iridiviauals,
" no claim for a.credit shall be admItted upon trial, but
" such as shall appear to have been presented to the ac" counting officers ,fthe treasury~fqr their examination,
",and by them disallowed in whole or.in part," &c. If
a marshal might retain money to answer h own claims,
there would be no necessity bf an appropriation by law;
and -it would subject the'whole revenues of the govern-ment to the caprice of juries. The jury had no right to
'find a debt dde from'the'United States. It was a matter
coram non jftdic, unless it had been first submitted to
the accounting 6fficers of the treasury,

29

SUPRIME COURT U. S.

A Defendant cannot set off t deor, if ho could not
maintain a suit fQr it. 4bDall. 303. Comolonweath v.
G.ES
Blacklock. This .Defendant could not maintain a suit
&oTi.ns. against the United States. To give him the benefit of
....
the st t off would be a violation of the prerogative of the
United States.
. STATEs

V.

Tiir COURT stopped the counsel for the United States,
upon this point, saying they were satisfied.
3. As to the delivery of the 11 bonds to the attorney
of
the United States, it was said, that they were made
.Payable
to the marshal for thei time being,' and ought
to
have been delivered to his succmsor. That in taking the
bonds he acted officially. He could only sell as marshal
wlether lie sold for cash or on vredit. A Plaintiff may
wave a rule intended for his benefit and authorize a
marshal to sell on credit. He had no authority to sell as
agent, nor had'he any ord.rs to deliver the bonds to thle
attorney. The assent of th6 comptroller is not sufficiently found, for the. jurors find a fact inconsistent with
such asseut, viz. that the comptrolier ordered him to deliver them to his saccesso,.
The violation of his duty
in pot delivering them to his successor *as prior to his
dlivery of them to the attorniey.
w

.1. As to the question whether the sureties in this bond
.areliable for the money receiv.d by Gileq after th roVocation of his commission, it was said that by the 28th
section of the judiiary act, vol. 1,' p. 67, "every
. ' marshal, .,hen removed from office, shall have power,
"notwithstanding, to execute all such prcepts as may
's be in his hands at the time. of such removal," and in
case of the death of any marshal hs deputies shall continue in office, unless otherwise specially removed, and
shall execute-the same in the name of the deceased, until
an,)ther.marshal shall be appointed and sworn ; and the
defaults or misfeasances in office of such deputies in
the mean time, as well as before. shall be aYudged a
breach of the condition of th1 bond 'iv n, as before dirvcted,.by the marshal who appointed them.
-iere a liability is finposed upon thosureties which is
not expressed in the condition of the bond,

FEBRUARY TERMN 1S1.

=9

The words in the condition, ,,during his continuance U. STATk:s
cc int1re
said .ffice.' inean, so long as he shall have a ithoe.

rity 'to a~t by virtue of the saidoffice. So.far as re- GEL'.
ga-rdeii the execution and return of the writ offierifaeiaq. &OTHERaS.
against John Lamb, his authority to.act by virtue of his
iffice continued after tie revocation of his commission.
The' writ was not co'nplettly executed until it was returned fully satisfied. quorulh1c lie still continued in ofice within the meaning and intentiin of the bond. In all
thr. cas,-s cited b3 the opposite counsel, the time wi limited by!nmidlis, and not by such a g-neral expression as
this. Tile act of co.njgress contemplates a course of duty
and intended that the bond should,cover all hi responsibility, and no doubt the parties intended'to give such a
bond as the act required Congress could not have intended that upon the removal -if a marshal, perhalps lr
wasting the. public money, ce for insolvency, -lie should
still go on to collect other monies, after hissureties upon
his official bond should be discharged by his removal
from 6ffice.

5. As to the payment of the sum of 6,238 dollars and
35 eents, to the attorney of the United States, it was
said, that the district attorney.. as such. has no autlority to receive the pub!ic money collected by tle marshal.
In common cases the authority of aniattorney at law
.arises from presumption, and is limited to a year and
day after judgment, in which time, if cxecutiqn be not
taken out, the juidgpent is presumed to be satisfied.
But a t the attorney for a goverimngent no such lres.umption .f authority arises. "TheUnited States is considered as a moral person only, and can only act by proper organs legally appointed; and their acts can bind
the United States onlv so far as tliey act within the Powers given them by law. In no other government does
the law officer receive the public money without the order of tme treasury. The treasury department is to
manage thewhQle fiscal concerns of the nation. There
is no exception in favor of the attorney of the United
States. Ais duty is only to support the claims of the
Uniked States. .There is no necessity that such a p,,vcr
should he lodged in his hands. He gives no security.
Why should the money be taken out of the hands of a
cesponsible officer and given to one not responsible?

SUPREMIE COURT. U S.
But this paymentis claimed as a cIledit, and it is a
sufficient answer, to say, that it has never been siibmited to the accountinj officers of the treasury. The'jury
GILES
&oTmRs. had no right to find such.a credit, or even to act upon it.
U.

STATrEs
V.

But if it is to be considered as a payment to the United States, still it does not appear that at the time of payment it was appliel to the disliarge of any particular
part of the money which Giles had received, The United States have therefore a right n.,w to apply it to such
pdrt as they please, and this Court will make suci application of it as will be most bpneficial to the United
States. That is to say, if the Coirt shall be of opinion
that the sureties are not liable for the. money received by
Giles after his removal from'office, they will apply this
payment to that part of the debt, and leave the sureties
liable for the part receied while he was in office.

M7arch 7th. .Asent....ToDD, J'.
LyV4NsT0X,

rollows:

.delivered the opinion of the Court as
I

This is a joint action of debt on a bond dated the 9th
of January, 180t, in the penalty of'20,000 dollars.
* The condition of the bond is as follows : Whereas the
above bound Aquila Giles bath been appointed tie marshal in and for the New York district, in pursuance of
an act, entitled ",an act to establish the judicial Courts
ofthe United States," noAv, the condition of the precedinlg obligation is such, that if the said A. G. shall, by himself and his deputies, faithfully execute all lawful precepts
directed to the marshal of the said district utnder the authority of the United States and true rturns make. and
in all things well and truly and without malice or partiality perform the duties of the office of marshal in and
for the said district of New York daring his continuance
in the said office, and tal.e only his lawful fees, then the
obligation to be void, &c.
General performance is pleaded by the Defendaiits, to
which a fxeplication is filed assigning six breaches, to all
of wbith thiere was a rejoinder, sur-rejoinder and issue,

PEBRUARY TERIT i8i.

23L

On the issue joined on the first breach the special ver- v. sTTES
dict finds, that on the 20th of Junkary, 1600, the said
V.
Writ of vend. ex-p. andfi.fa. was delivered to Giles, who, G.ES
before. he proceeded trexceute it, was authorized by the &OTUnES.
officers of the treasury to sell the land of Lamb, under
said writ, for one fourth part of the purchase mopey in
cash, one fourth part pa3 able in two years fi urn the time
of sale, one fourth part in three years, and the
other fourth part in four years, iiith. interest from
the time of sale, to be secured by bonds and rhortgages payable to Gilts as marshal, or to the marshal of the distiict for the time bein_, to and for thie use
of the United States. That on the 17th of December,
1800, John Steele, being co.ptruller of the treasury, did
instruct and order Giles to pay into the office of discount
and deposit of t' e bank of the United States in Nev
York, to the credit of the treasure of the United States,
all the mories w~hich m.ight he levied from the property
of Lamb, by virtue of the said, x rit of -end. exp. and -f.
.fa. That under these instructions Giles proceedr-d to
sell the lands of John Lamb ; the sales of which coinmenced on the 26th of November, :1800, and were contihued until the 23d of December in the same year. That
during the sales and afteriards, and before the executidn (if the bond by the Defendants, Giles received frnu
some ofthe purchasers several sums amounting to 3,71s
dollars and 98 cents, and no more, which sums were
paid as the fourth of the pur~hasae money of the lands
bought by them. , That Giles has never brought ihto
Court, or paid into the bank either of the sgild surely, dr
50 dollars, wh'ich was received on the 20th of Januinvu
1800, on a sale, by Giles, of the chattels of .Lambl or-'o
3,713 dollars and 98 cents, and that lie nevei' vas required so to do by any older nf 'the 'Ditrict Co'urt.
That while Giles was marshal as aforesaid, a writ of
capias ad satisfadeiidum was issued out of said Court
and delivered to him against Elias Wicks, on a 3nagment recovered by the'United States, on which was indoied a direction to Giles to levy the sum of 39,1 66,dollars and 18 c~ents, besides marshal's fees and poundage;
that Hicks was ariested by Giles and in custodyon said
writ until. discharged thereftom by th'e secretary of the.
treasuryhtbar the pouflage fees of Giles theremi, if any
wef6 due, Have not beentpaid to him by any one, anid
that'they amount;'if due at all, to At19 dollars and 57

230

SUPREM

COURT U. S.

cents.. That the United States became indebted to Gilcs,
while marshal as afiiresaid. in the sum of 8,13& dollars
OnlEs and 96 cents, for his fecs and ervices, in taking the se&oTlnniE.ond census in hisdistrict and frimonies paid to his as.
sistants,' in taking the saidcen.gus, pursuant to the act
in such case made and provided, which sums amount to
8,553 dollars and 53 cents- in part payment of Which
C'Jes retains the two sums of S0 dollars, apd of 3,713
dollars and 98 cents. But wheth, r in law h.converted
them to his own use contrary to the forin and ofl'ect of
the condition of the said bond, thejurors pray the advice
of th6 Court. If the Court shail think that it was such
a conversion the jurors ausess datnages on this breach
at 3,765 dollars and 98 cents, 'But if tile Court shall
be of opinion that such itaiiug was no conversion then
thejury pay that h did notronvert the same to his use.
U. STATES

v.

2. The second breachas signed. is, that Giles having,
on the 17th of D~ecember, 1800, sold other lands of Lamb
under the writ aforesaid for the further sum of 60,000
dollars, rece.iv'd .the said sum on the O0th of January,
1801, (which was after the execution of the bond,) audi
converted and disposed of the samb to his own use.
On the.issue joined on this breach, the jury find thalt
Giles, having' made the sal-es-as aforesaid, anti under the
instructions and orders aforesaid, received from tile pur.chasers, after.the 9th of January, iS0t, and before the
27th of March, 1801, (when he went out of office) the
sum 6f 1,683ilollars and 52 cents ; and after that day
the sum of 17,491 dollars arid 58 cents. affiounting in
the'whole tQ 18,875 dollars and 10 cents, which sums
We'e paid by the purchasers, as the cash payment which
wag to'be made by them for the land so purchased (which
sales toolk-place between the 26th of November, and the
.3d of December, 1800.) Thiat.tlh poundage amd dhirges due to and paid by Giles, and legally chargeablc against
theproceeds of tbese sales; amounted to 1,332 dollars and
85 cents which leaves in the hands of Giles the net sum
of--7,Ma.dollars and2 5 cents, of tle monies received
by him-after the 9th of January, 1301. That on the
i3th nfApril, It0s, he paid to Edward Livingston, who
was district attqruey, the sum of 6,238 dollars and 35
cents, ',which was.receipted for, on the said writ of exe.
cution. That it wfs then and'yt is the usage and prac.

FEBRUARY TERMk i8is.
rice within the said district for the marshal to pay to the u. sTATE9
-.
district attorney all monies levied by executions issued
by the said attorney, in suits in which the ,United Statfs ours
are Plaintiffs. That this pa3 ment was made by and with &OTalRsE
thd approbation of the comptroller of the treasury, and
thatGiles has never in any other way paid the said last
mentioned sum to the United States, or brought it hito
Court in any other way, than by paying it as a-iorfsaid,
to the district attornev. That as to another part of the
said sum of 17,542 dollars and 25 cents, to wit, the sum
of -1479 dollars and 68 cents, Giles retains the same tqwards satisfaction of an equal sum due to him as aforesaid from the United States. 'That the residue of the
said sum, to wit, the sum of 6.82 dalars and 22 cents,
Giles retains to this day. BA:t they pray the advice or
the Court whether Giles converted to his own use, contrary to the condition of the said bond, the said several
sums of 6,238 dollars mnd 35 centq, 4,479 dollars and 63
cents, and 6,82! dbllars and 22 cents.
1. If lie converted all of the said sums contrary, &c.
then they assess damages at 20,613 dollars and 12 cents.

o. If he did not convert the said sun, of 6.238 dollars
and 35 cents, paid to Livingston, but converted the, other
two sums, then they assess damages at l4,374 dollars and
77

cents.

3. If he did not convert the two first sums, to wit,
the
sum of 6,238 dollars and 35 cents, and 1,179 dollais and
68 cents, but did convert the sum of 6.8-21 dolla s and
22 cents, to his own use, then they assess damages at
9,895 dollars and 9 cents.
4. If Giles did not convert to ii.i own use the sum of
6,821 dollars and 22 cents, but did conv.rt the. other two
sums, then they assess damages at 10,718 dollars and 8
cents.
5. If Giles did not coplert to his own use the saia sum
of 4,479 dollars and 68 cents, but did so convert the
other two sums, they assess damages at 16,133 dillars
and 44 cents.
6. If Giles did-not convert to his own use the two sums
so
VOL. IN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
. sTATES
of4,.1
dollars and 68 cents, and 6,82- dollars and 22
-V.
cents, 9but
did so convert the other sum of 60238 dollars
G1LEs

and 35 cents, then the damages tire assessed at 6,238
35 cents.

&OTHERS. dollars and

7. If Giles (lid not so convert the two sums of 6,238
dollars and s5 cents, and 6,8U4 dollars and 22 cents, but
did so convert the other sums of 4,479 and 68 cents, they
then finddamages to the amount of 4,179 dollars and
68 cents.
8. If, in the opinion of the Court, Giles converted neither f those sum-, to his own use, contrary to the effect
of the said condition, then the jury find that lie did not
so convert either of them.
On the issue joined on the fourth breach, the following facts appear on the special verdict. That on the 1st
of February. 1801, Giles had in his hunds, as marshal,
14 h:'nds, described in assi.gning the fburth breach, belon ging to thw Plhintilfs. That Gih's continued marshal
until t1e.127th of March, 1801, when he was duly removed and dismissed from office, and John Rwartwout on
the same day appointed marshal of the said district in
his place, who continued marshal until the commence.
ment of this s,,it. That the said bonds continued in the
hands of Giles until the 3d of .January, 1803, when they
were delivered by him to Edward Living.4ton who was
then district attorney, by and with the assent and approbation of the comptroller of the treasury. That~on the
12t of January, 1803, Gabriel Dural being comptroller
of the treasury, as such did instruct, order anl direct
Giles a. late miarshall 'to deliver imnwdiately the said 14,
bonds to the said John Swartwout ui0successqr in oflice,
vhich he did not do. If the Court shall think this was
a conversion of these bonds, the jury assess damages at
5,25. dollars and 73. If the Court think otherwise -tho

jury find it to be no conversion.
On the subject of-he fifth breach,'st is found that Giles

on the ist of September. 1800, f'eceived as marshal $09
dollars and 87 cents, on an execution issued against one
Richard Capes at the suit 9f the Plaintiffs, which he retaii towards satisfaction-of an equal suln due from them
to him.- If this be deemed a conversion by the Court#

FEBRUARY TERM iiS.
the jury assess damages at 309 dollars and 87 cents. u. sTATES
But if the Court shall not think so, then thejury, on this
V.
breach, find for the Defendants.
GIFl.S
&OTHERS,

It is certified that the Circuit Court, were divided in
opinion on the following points arising on this record.
1. Whetherjudgment should be given for the Plainti'ffs
or for the Defendants as to the sum of 3,763 dollars and
98 cents, being the damages assessed upon the first
breach assigned.
2. The like question as to the sum of 20.6i3 dollars
and 12 cents, being the first sum asstssed as conditional
damages, on the second breach.
3. The same question as to the sum of 14,371 dollars
and 77 cents, being the second sum conditionally assessed
on the second breach.
4. The like as to the sum of 9,895 dollars and 99
cents, being the third sum assessed conditionally on the
second breach.
5. The like as to the sum of 1b,718 dollarstand a
cents, being the fourth sum assessed on the second
breach.
6. The hke question as to the sum of 16,133 dollars
and 44 cents, being the fifth sum assessed on the second
breach.
7. The like question as to the sum of 6,238 dollars
and 35 cents, being the sixth sum assesse'd on the second
breach.
8. The like question as to the sum of 4.,79 dollars
and 68 cents, being the seventh sum assessed on the second breach,
9. The like question as to the sum of 5,255. dollars
and 73 cents, being the damages assessed on the fourth
breach.

10. ;The like question as tQ the sum of 309 dollate

986
c 8 STATES

V.

GILS
&OTHERS.

SUPREME COURT U.S.

and 87 cents, being the da ages assessed on the fifth
breach.
The first point on which the direction of this Court
is asked, will require a decision of the following questions.
t. Had Giles a right to retain out of the public monies in his hands any sums which might be due to him
for his services or for advances made by him hs marshal ?
. Are the Defendants liable, uuder the condition of
their bond, for the two sums of 50 dollars, and of 3,713
dollars and 98 cents, received by- Giles, tho first sunt on
the 20th of January, 1800, and the other on some day
rior to the 9th of January, 180i, which is the date of
eirr bond ?

The act of congress providing for the settlement of accounts between the United States and th receivers of
public monies, is so explicit as to preclude every difflculty in deciding on the first question. The third section of the law provides, that where a suit shall be instituted against any person indebted to the United States,
the Court shall grant judgment at the return term, on
motion, unless the Defendant shall in opeii Court make
oath or affirmation that he is equitably entitled to credits,
which liad been, previous to the commencement of the
suit, submitted to the consideration of the accounting offlcers of the treasury, and rrjected, spcifyig each particular claim so rejected in the affidavit. The next section declares that in shits between the United Stales and
individuals; no claim for a credit shall b admitted upon
trial but such as shall appear to have been submitted to
the accounting officers of the treasury for their ex.,mination and by them disallowed, unhss it shall appear
that the Defindant at the time of trial is in possession of
vouchers not before in his power to procure, and that ho
was prevented from exhibiting a claim for such credit by
absence from the United States, or by somei unavoidable
accident.
It is clear then that if this had been an action against
Giles for monies received by him as marshal, lie could not

FEBRUARY TERm

is.

287

have availed himself of any credit against thd ptiblic, U..Sa'ATrS
however well founded the claim might be, unless hu had
-C.
.previously submitted his title to such a credit to the ac- GILES
counting officers of the treasury and they had rejected the &OTHnUS.
sam?, or unless lie had been prevented from so doing by
one of the accidents mentioned in the law.
On this subject the special verdict, on the issuejoined
on the sixth breaci, finds that Giles did not render to
the auditor of the treasury all his accounts and vouchers for the -xpendtture of monies received by him as
marshal as aforesaid.
If then in a suit against Giles himself, a claim for these
credits, under existing circumnstances, could not be saistained, neither can it in an :ction on this bond, without
permitting the Dfndants to do indirectly what the marshal could not have done directly, and in this way avail
themselves of what the law seenis to regard as a default,
or at least a negligence on the part of their principal.
We are next to consider whether the Defendants-are
liable for the sum of 50 dollars. and the sum of 3,7i3 dollars and 98 cents, received by Giles. The first sum was
received on the 920th of January, 1800, en the fl. fa. and
vend. exp. issued against the estate of John Lamb ; andl

the other was received on the same writ after the 27th.
of November, iSO0, but before the date of the bond upon
which the action is brought.
It is contended by the Defendants that the retaining
of monies which were received by Giles anterior to the
'date of.the bond. cannot be considered a conversion by
him within the terms of its condition ; while the Plaintifls
on the contrary, maintain that as these sums were in his

hands at the time of its execution and have not been
paid over to this day, his official delinquency i6 made
out within the meaning of this instrument, and the res-

ponsibility of the Defendants thereby established.

On this point two of the judges think that the cover
sion of these sums by Giles was complete by his not paying them into the hank, agrqably to the directions of the.
comptroller of the treasury und6r which he acted and
that this havinF taken place prior to the execution of the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
U. ST&TES

v."
GILES

bond'the Defendants are not liable therefor within tho.

terms of its condition which are entirely prospective.
Two other members of the Court are of opinion that no

&0H0TERS. demand appearin.g on the record to have been made on
the marshal for these sums, either by rule of Court or
otherwise, no conversion of them is made out; and that
therefore the Defendan!s are nodt liable. Thc other Iwo
judges think that although these two sums were received
before the date of the bond, yet as they remained in the
hands of the marshal, afterwards, and have not bern paid
over to this day, the Defendants are accountable for
them.
Judgment must therefore be rendered for tWe Defen-

dants as to the suln of 3,763 dollars and 98 ceijtq, being
the damages assessed upon the first breach assigned.
The next questiin, on which the Court belowjwas divided, related to the sum of 20,6;13 dollars and u,cents,
being the first sum assessed as conditional damages upon
the second breach.
By recurring to the 9pecial yerdict it appears that
Giles having had afierifaciasput into his hands on thd
20th of January, 1800, against the real estate of John
Lamb, was directed by the officers of the treasury, to
make sales of itfor one founth of the purchase money in
cash, and for the other three fourths on certain credits
and st-curities sperifled in said instructions. These sales

commenced on the 26th of November, 1800, and continued until the 23d of December, following.
After the 9th of Jinua.y, 1801, and before he went

out of office, which was the 27th of March, following,
Giles received of the pu'chasers of Lamb's estate, 1,083

dollars and.52 crnts. and after that day the sum of 11,191
dollars and 58 cents, amounting in the whole to 18,876
dollars and 10 cents. Deducting the poundago and
chaiges which the special verdict finds to he legally
chargeable against this sum, there was left in Giles hands
the net sum of 17,54.2 dollars and 25 cents, of the monies
received by him after the 9th of January, 1801. On the
13th of April, 1803, he paid to E. Livingston who %Va

dristrict attorney, \vith the assent and approbation of the

FEBRUARY TERM iSMi.
comptroller of the treasury, the sum of 6,238 dollars and u. sTATEn
35 cents.

Before we examine into the deductions claimed by the
Defendants against the suns receivcd by Giles ft cah
payments, it will be necessary to settle for what portion
of these suims they are chargeable under the condition of
their bond.
Of these sums a majority of the Court think thby are
liablefor the sum of i,683 dollars and 52 cents, wici was
receivebd between its exceution and the marshal's dismission from office.
Are they also responsible for the sum of 17.91 dollars
and 50 cents, which was received by Giles after another
marshal came into cffice?
The bond, on which this action is brought having
been given f.r the faitliul performance of the duties of
Giles as marshal, during his cantinmawe in orcd, two of
thejudges are of opinion thai his sureties are not liable
for the conversion of the last mentioued suni which took
place after lie was out of office by not paying it as directed by the comptroller if the treasury. Two or the judges
do not consider the findiiig ofthe jury as fixing upoh
Giles a conversion of this sum at any time, in as much
as it does not appear that he was ever demanded to pay
the came into Court, or in any other way. The other
two judges are of opinion that the marshal, being authorized to do certain acts e.ven after his removal from office, the condition qfthe honil embraces defaults committed after such dismission, as Well as before, and that the
Defendants are therefore liable'ror the said sam of 17,tOt
dollars and StYcents, although received by Giles 'fter he
ceased to be marshal.
It is, however the opinion of a majority of the Court,
that th6 Defendants are not so liable -under this bond,
Another question arises undei this opposition of opinion in the Circuit Court; and that is w'lwther thel paymient to Edward Livingston in April, i8o3, was a paiyfiaent to the United States ?

T.
rEs
&OTHERS.

SUPREME COURT U. 9.
It is supposed that this payment, being made contrary
to the comptroller's order of' the 17th or Deceuinhir,
1800, which was to pay all monies re-ceivedtunder this
GUS
&OTHERS. 'execution into the branch bank, at Now York, cannot be
regarded as valid.
U. sTATEs

V.

It is true such instructions are found by the jury, which
certain'y do not authorize such payment, yet it is also
found, possibly, from some subsequent instructions of the
comptroller, which .do not appear. or at any rate from
evidence, which must have satisfied the jury, that such
payment was made with the assent and approbation of
the comptroller of the treasury. This finding, correct
or not, must conclude the Court ; and it has only to say
whether a payment be good if made under such author-

itr.

The comptroller is alithorized by law, " to directprose.
cutions to be commenced for all debts due to the United
States." During such prosecutions he gives directions
how they shall be conducted, and how the monies recovered shall be paid. If therefore he directed, or assented to,
the payment to, Livingston, it is difficult to say that
Giles erred, or was guilty of any fault. either in ptursuing his iustruction', or in making a payment with his assent and approbation.
It yet remains to settle, under this branch of the division of the Circuit Court, how the payment to Livingston is to be applied. For altliough the sum paid to him
is 'Much greater than the sum of I,683 dollars and 52
cents, for which it is decided that the Defendants are
liable, the benefit, which they may derive from such payment, will depend in some 'measure on the manner. of its
application.
It does not appear that any direction was given by
Giles,or that any elecion was made by either party how
it should be apolied. Nothing nore is known than that
Giles, beingthenindebted to a much largeramount formonies received at diffbrent times under the execution
against the property of Lamb, made this piyment without declaring Wvhat particular item in the account of the
United States against him should thereby be discharged .
-If there be no designation how a sum paid on account

FEBRUARY TEAR1~.
IM41
sh
be credited, aia there be sureties for part of the ;T STiT=
"debt, as was the case. hre,*it ietms iellsonable to some
o.
of the judges to let them have the benefit of it, by aIpply- GMEs
ing the credit in such a way as to exonerate them, so far &OTUERS,
as the sunt paid shall be sufficient for that purpose. If
r~gd be had to the order of time in which the monics
were received by Giles, it Njill be seen that the sum of
3,763 dollars and 98 cents. which is the first sum for
which he is in arrear, was received by him prior ta the
9th of January, 1801 ; and the next sum for which h,, is
accountable, to wit: the sum of 1,683- dollars and 52
cents; came into his hands- after that day, but previous
to th&27tlt of March, 'i80, and after this, other monies
were received by him. Thcse two sums together are
not equalto the payment whioh was made to Livingston.
FolIowing this order,. the. sum fir which the Defendahts are liable being among the first that were rceived,#,'nd being recoverable with intere.t on their bond,
would oi this principle he extinguished by the first pay-.
Inent if 'it were. sufficient, as was the case here, to discharge all the moiuies which had been received prior to
the'receipt of the. sum for whick the Defendants are nnswerable,-and that'alsoi 'But this is not the opinion of
a Wajority of the jdg'-s. They think, and such is the
de~ision of tire Court, that the Uniled States have yet a
right to apply thise payments in a way most beneficial to
themselves and so fs not to extin.guiIh the sum .f 1,683
dollars and Sz ceits, for which tle tDefendapts are' aci.ountable.The Caurt then is of opinoui that judgilient must be
given for the Defendants a to th~sm ihf 20,613 dollars
and 12 ceni j being the first sum assessed~as conditional
damages upon the-second breach.
Judgment must in like manner be giVen for the Defendants as to all the other bums assessed as conditional
damages upon the second breach.
It is next to be decided whether t66 conditional damaAvs of 5,255 dollars and 73 cents, asiessed on the fourth
breach he recoverable against the Defendants.
These damages are given in consequence of a suppos31
VOL. IX..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ed conversion by Giles of the fourteen bonds mentioned
in the special verdict. But it being found that thes6
GILES
bonds.were delivered to Edward Livingston, by and
&oTnERS. with the assent and approbation of the comptroller of the
treasury, the Court is unanimously of opinion, for reasons already assigned, that such. delivery was no conversion of these bonds by. Giles, and that therefore judgmeht must be rendered for the Defendants, as to thp
said sum of .5,255 dollars and 73 cents, being the damages assessed as aforesaid on the fourth breach.
V. STATES

Io.

The last qiestion which is submitted to us regards
the sum of 309 doljars and 87 cents, which it appears
by the finding under the fifth breach assigned, was received by Giles on the first of September, 1800, on an
execution at the suit of the United States, against Richard Capes, which was retained by Giles towards satisfaction of an equal sum due to him. This sum being received prior to the execution of the bond, must be regarded within the reasons assigned for not coniidering
the Def'endants liable for the two sums of .50 dollars and
of 3,713 dollars and 98 cents, herein before menfioned,
and.judgment must, accordingly, in the opinion of a
majorify of the Court be given for tbh Defendants, as to
the said sum of 309 dollars and 87 cents, being the damages assessed upon the fifth breach.
It will be seen that the Court is of-opinion that the
Der'endants are liable under their bond for the sum of
1.683 dollars and 52 cents, which was received by the
narshal after its execution, and before he went out of
offive ; but by not one of the findings on the different
breaches assigned, does it appear to have been contemplated that this sum arone might be recoverable in this
action, and,.accordingly n0 conditional damages are assessed to suit that stat of the case.
. The Court therefore can only give its directions as to
the questions submitted to them, which are,
That it must be certified to the Circuit Court for the
district of New York in the second circuit,
1. That judgmenf must be given for the Defendants
as to the sum 8,763 dollars and 98 cents, being the da-

FEBRUdARY TERM 1815.
tRages assessed upon the first breach of the condition of U. STATES
the bond assigned in the replication of the Plaintiff.
V.
GIL ES
2: That judgment must be given for the Defei- &OTHBRS.
dents as to' the several sums of 20,613 dollars and 12
cents, of i,374 dollars and 77 'cents, of 9,895 dollars
and 09 cents, of 10,718 dollars andos cents, of 16483
dollars and 44 cents, of 6,238 dollars and 35 cents, and
of 4,470 dollars and 68 cents, being the several sums
assessed, as conditional damages on the second breach.

S. Thatjudgment must be given for the Derendants,
for the suina'of 5,255 dollars and 73 cents, being the damages assessed upon the fourth-breach, and
4. Thatjudgmen: nnst he given for the Defenoants
for the 'um of 309 dollars arid 87 cents," being tbe,
d~ma$ges assessed upon the fifth breach,

THE UNITED STATES -. 30B L.

AIBEAR.

8i5o

,*senit....Toxrn, 3.

THIS
darc
was a
certitled from the
jircuit
Cot prt'ac or
for tife district of .Vermont, tl~e opinions of the judges ofpcu cr
which Court were opposed.

IneanWR dthe

Baiber was indicted, - for that he, being a citizen atorcr,.
ofthe Gth of
of the United States, and inhabiting'the same, withtforce july, 1810, to
and arms, at;" &c. ", did attempt to transport overland Prolult Amethirty head of fat cattle which were then ad there arti- rro preecles'of provision and munitions of war, and were all of ing to or t-d.
the value of 300 dollars, from a place in the United 9mN
States, to wit: from Berkshire, in the said district of uditce State ,Vernont; to a place in the province of Lower Canada, and for otder
to wit: to St. Armons; in the province .foreaid, contrary to the form, force and effect of the statute of the
United States, in such case made and provided," &c.
There was another* count in which he was charged with
hejctual transportation of them. After a verdict against
him,. he obtained a rule to shew cause why jqdgment

