FEBRUARY TEIM. ifit.
is the case here) shoul4 be palmed on him by parol tes. sruz
timony ; aid so, 'vice wJAa.nthat no alteration which & OTHERS
may be, in any way, injurolbs to the grantee or obligee,
V.
should be set up by the other party; but that the terms V.STATES.
in which the deed is originally oxecuted should alone be
binding, until alterations are introduced into it by the
same solemnities which gave existence to the first.
Such, in my opinion, is the salutary rufle of the common
law; and therefore I think that thejudgient of the Circuit Court ought to be reversed.
BAEsHALL, Ch. X.

Was rather inclined to' think that the plea was good,
which stated that thie Gond wa giveif for more than dogble the value of the vessel and cargo. If the bond was
given for moretlian double that value lie thought'it was
void in law.
He should not however have intimated his opinion on
this point if a.dissenting opinion 1'ad not been given on
another p6int in the cause, and his silence might tiavo
been construed into an assent to tlhentire opinidij of the
Court as'it had been delivered.

TABER -v.PERROTT AND LEE.
Feb.

14th

Absent....ToDD, ".
ERROR to the Circuit Court for' the.district of RhodeA
Island, in an action of assunpsit to recover from the De.....
fen,lant's Perrotl and Lee, the amount of certain bills of of .x
cn
exchan.ge put into their hands., to collect, by the Plain- blnk itiff Taber and his deceased partner, Gardner.
liven itto ti
to deliver
to C.
f.ir
€llectin,

At the trial below several excaptibns werq taken, in anti
nhecal
tc p-e
tected
Which the following
0 fa6ts appeared.
the amount
to
the edit ofA

The Plainhlff produced a vifness, Tohn., )loss, who anrd U,inabeing'aerduly
and sworn testifid, that Messrs.
i.
c.
ad admitted
Grnat
rLmerchants of Rhode Island, werec msautthoLi,
Gardner,
Taber and

r"-

SUPREME "COURT U. L.
holders and owners of French government bills to a
large amount* which wore by them indorsed in blank,
PERROTT and given to their agent, the said John L. i3o. s to 'take
&Xt. to Fr'ance for collectioli. That hey Boss, had no interest
in the bills and received them as agent for the Plaintiffs,
fuseA to place and this was known to Perrott and Lee, That he carit to the credit
ofA& B-wo ried them to Fi'ance in 1802, in a vessel of the Plaintiffs,
settle their aI with a cargo consigned to the Defendants, Perrott and
aind
pay htio ; Lee, of Bourdeau:;. in which cargo Boss had an interout"
the balance. est. That he delivered tlhe bills to Perrott and Leb to
A.
and receive the amount. That Boss went to
sacs aferaros
C. rorthe negoiate
"
amountrece v- Paris in October, 1802, and while ther.- received a letter
ed'upon the on the 26th "Octobcr, fr'om Pprz;ott and L-c informing
bills n. is a him that Moteli Thomas q-.Co. of Paris, were'tho house
witne for A. to whom the bills were sent and introducing him to that
house; and they wrote a letter to Hotel, Thrnnts "Co.
directing them, when the bills were paid, to place fhe
money to the c~ldit of Perrott and Bineau, a banldng
house at Bourdeaux, which Perrott is one of the Defendants. On the i2th of January, I80s, Boss called on
IIota, Thonas & Co. and was informed that the bills
had been paid by the-French overnment on the 7th of
January preceding, and Boss saw the proceeds of hlie
bilfi credited on the boolks of Hotel, Thomaf & Co. to the
sri&L Perrott and"Biheau, according to th directions or
Perrott and Lee. ' That Boss on the 14th January, advised.tl~e Defendents that the bills were paid, arld directed
file proceeds to be applied to the credit of the account of
Taber, Gardner and Boss with them.
)n the !Zthof
January,, at Paris, Boss saw bills of eiclhange drawn by
Perrott and Bineau on Hotel, T'hioas & Co. and acceptM b* them at so or 4 0 days sight, which were acknowledged by thelDefendant, Perrott, to have been drawn for
tho said proceeds. rhat the said bills so drawn and acco.pted were in the hands of one Charles Botdin, but
whether they have been further negotiated or not, or paid
or not, Boss could not tell. That Boss returned to Bourdcaux on the 26th of February, and left Boturdeaux about
th 6th of April, 1803. That until the day before lie left
Bourdeaux lie had no intimation from the Defendants
that'they would not credit lhe amount ofthe said bills to
thie account of Taber, Gardner and Boss. That the
Defendants refused to give quch credit.
TABi.E

v.

Perrott and Lee, w'ho provided, the return caro,

FEBRUARY TERMI isis.
brought Taber, Gardner and Boss largely in their debt TAuEn
V.
in account current; and Boss, on the 6th of*April, i8S03,
signed the account, stating that when the monies were re- PLuuoT
ceived on the bills from Hotel, Thomas & Co. the & Lr,
amount should be passed to the credit of 'Taber, Gardner and Boss. Perrott and'Lee afterwards received the
whole balance of the said account from Taber, Gardner
and Boss, not having credited the proceeds of the said
bills; and the present suit is brou.ght by Taber, surviving partner of Taber and Gardner, the original holders
of the bills, to recover their amount.
The principal exception was to the charge of thejudge
who directed the jury to find forthe Defendants, on the
ground that the witness, Bosi, had not been made a party Plaintiff in the suit.
The case was argued by Pi B. KEY, for the Plaintiff
in error, and by HuxTEE, for the Defendants.

Felraaryi5th. Absent ....TIODD, J.
M1AutsHx1z,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows :
This suit was brought by the Plaintiffh in error, in the
Circuit Court of the United States, for the distript of
Rhode Island, to recover from the Defendants the amount
of certain bills drawn by genefal Le Clerk on the government of France.
The declaration contains several counts, some special,
stating agreements between the parties for the payment
of tile bills; others general, among which is a count for
money had and received by the Defendants, to the use of
the Plaintiffs.
It appeared, at the trial, that the Plaintiffs and John
L. Boss, were concerned in certain commercial specula.
tions, in the prosecution of wihich John L. Bogs sailed,
in 1802 and 1803, to Bourdeaux, in the Polly, with car-

goes in which they were jointly interested. On the first
voyage, Boss carried with him the bills of exchange for
the amount o'which this suit was brought, indorsed ,in
blank by the Plaintift, Gardner, which he delivered to
VOL. IX.

6

SUPREME COURT U. S.
VA.BEa

-.
PeSRUOTT
& s,Fn.

----

the Defendants for collection. The amount, whon col.
leetted, was to be placed to the credit of the return cargo
of the Polly, in which the Plaintiff and John L. Buss
were jointly concerned. The account was settled with~out giving credit for the amount of these hills; and Taber, Gardner and Boss have been compelled to pay the
balance acknowledged to he due. This action was
brought to charge the Defendants with the bills, alleging that their amount has been received.
At the trial, the Plaiutiffs offered Boss as awitness, for
the. purpose of proving the liability of the Defendants for
the amount of the bills. He swore that he had no interest,in the cause nor in the bills; but his testimony was
objected to by the Dcfendants on the ground of his being
interested ; and the Court was moved to instruct thejul-

ry that the action could not be sustained, because Boss
was hot a party Plaintiff in the declaration. This direction was given by the Court, and excepted to by the
counsel for the Plaintiffs. A verdict and judgment
were rendered for the Defendants, whiph,are brought
into this Court by writ of error.
t

The Defendants in error contend, that the ills of exchange were part of the cargo of the Polly, and consequently the joint property of thec owyners of that cargo.
JBut of this there is no other evidence than that Boss
was the bearer of those bills indors.-d in blank, and that
their proceeds, if received, were to be placed to the accoint of the. return cargo. This might very well be, and
yet Taber and Gardner remain the sole owners of the
bills. Their amount, if received, might be credited to
all the partners ill their account with Perrott and Lee,
and then be credlited to.Tabor and Gaerlre in settling
tht, accounts of the partnefship.. Boss then would have
no interest in tie bills, unless they should be collected and
carried to tile credit of tire retairn cargo. That account
having been settled without including this item, itis not
necessarily impli,-d, from the farts in the case, that Boss
was interested : and he. swears that lie was not. This
Court is of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in directing the testimony of Boss to be disregarded ; and
als, in directing the jury to find for time Defendants be,
cause he was not made a party Plaintiff in the suit.

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
Several other opinions were given by the judge, to TABY.U
which exceptions: were taken; but it is unnecessary to
W.
review them as they depended on the op.tion that Boss rxun0TT
was interested in the bills for whicli the action -was & LnB.
brought.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause sent back
for a new trial.

TERRETIT AD OTnnRs v TAYLOR Awp OTEMRS.

1815.
Feb.

Xbsent....onsoN,

. and ToDD,

17th.

.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the. idistrict of The regliim,
Columbia, sitting in the county of Alexandria.
eUtnbment
of EiWr~
Taylor and others, " members of the vestry of the by the co~ony

"cProtstantEpiscbpal
church, commonly
called the Epis--hof ter
Viier n,
u itht..c o a
r
t.

"'copal church of Alexandria in tjie parish of Fairfax' ti
66in the county of Alexandria and district of Columbia, la',tio tkt'
", on behalf of themselves and others, members of the 'itt r
"c said church, and of the congregation belonging. to the pimbe
11
to 9
"csaid church," filed their bill in chancery against .Ter-0.- s
rett and others, who were overseers of the poor-for the 'rite rechoW!
county of Fairfax, in the state of Virginia, and aptinst or the churm,
George D.-neale and John Muneaster, wardens -of the I') .
t
said church, and against-James Wren.
le .mva
irsntts
notre-

=Iocbe.

The bill charges that on the 27th of May, 1770, thO Thartetit.
vestry of the' said parish and church, to whom the Cokn- g of 1776,
plainants, together with the Def-'ndants, George De. the eurh ifs
iteale and John Muncaster, are the legal and regular z ihts to L-d,
i i
successors in the said vestry, purchased of' a certain
Daniel Jinnings a tract of land then situate in the coun- the €eotu.
...... Mlvr,
ty of Fairfax and state of Virginia, • but. now. in the i-Also
county of Alexandria in thz district of Columbia, con- g; nor di
taming- 56 acres, which the said Jonnings and his wife, te ts of
C1. 89
by deed of bargain and sale on the 18th of September, 1784,
'n 1785, c
:1770, by, the.direction of the then vestry, conveyed to a 37, infti
certain Tonsend Dade, since deceased, and the saidl.,7 of thz
;rames Wrini both then of the county of Fairfaxp and ed to b-. c

