FEBRUARY TERlI 1815.
OTIS v. WATKINS.

it.
51a h loth.

.qsen..,.ToDD, J.
ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of the irtheo&
.
1
conrmnvnwealth of Massachusetts, under the 25th section tedin anx-dd
of the judiciary law of the United States, vol. i,p. 63, Pl la'u,
in an action of trespass by Watking'against Otis, a depu to a Jtifica.
ia,
yetf.
ty collector for the district of Barnstable, for taking,
inwb-joined
carrying away and destro) ing the Plaintiff's schooner t!een
ad if
ti fats bm
Friendship and her cargo of cod-fish.
proved as t.
te ;t b er

The Defendantpleaded that he was a deputy collector indOicjag to
for the district of Barnstable ; that by the 11th section oft'truct the J2the act of congress of the 25th of .1pri/, 1808, ('oL 9,p1 yets o proed
150) it is enacted, " that the collectors or the customs o lti lav
- be, and they arc hereby xespectively authorized to de- i
tha
66 taiu any vessel ostensibly bound with a cargo to some ge
tb3
ant.a
- other port of the United States whenever, in theip 1ra eoalI....
"-opinions, the intention is to violate or evade any of the ju-a-y the d-.
r4
-provisions of the acts laying an embargo, until the "ti'
$decision of the president of the United States be had vh'th --thereupon." That the schooner Friendship with her d of the e-.
cargo, was lying in the harbor of Proviucetown, in he
m th_25t or
district of Barnstable, ostensibly hound to some other Apra, 0SOS,
.
port in the United States, in tiw opinion of the collector, "1
with an intent to violate or evade the provisions of the oi,tiat h
acts-aforesaid; whereupon the cblector, by the Defen- Opinion
dant, his deputy, caused the said vessel and her cargo thathe und
to be detained and reunrved from the port and harbor ofr2-==life
Provincetown ito the port and harbor of Barnstable, "'O d'
M'
gerice iii aer
that she might be securely kept; and there alsq caused ,ogthefac
hei to be detained, as it was lawful for him to do,. so ulon Ill
that the decision of the president of the United States o,
It is
might be had thereupon; and that te lresidetit,, after- sufficient that
wards, on the 34 of January, 1809, upon thle repurt and ttd- tho
representation. of the said collector, approved and con- ,pi.irmpn
.fArmed the detention; all which is the same taking, &c. Qemwh"
To this plea there was a general replication and issue, thor, und=
upon the trial of which a bill of exceptions was taken, tat, the
which stated that the Defendant, iQ order to -shew that bald totranihe collector had reasonable ground to believe that this mit to the prev-lna
e
te
r
V meatat aqrste-O
vessel "intendedto violate or evade tile
embargo
lawsj
(hp

SUPREE

COURT U. S.

plr-red in evidence the deposition of an inspector ot tli
IV.
cttstom. who testified that he went on board the schoonwATxKis. or, at Provincetown, which was wholly laden with
fish in bulk, and a barrel of beef and a number of packfacts upon
ages of small store and three or four barrels of water.
ehd
hhon.
That 0 spsebunad
ppsed she was bound to sea and gave infored hi; opinionnato
that the vessel motion thereof, and of .his suspicions, to the collector.
intbiide t 'vi- That she 'had also a number of kegs of pickled oysters
OTis

olate tihe embLrgn lawrntf. whether
he was bound

on board ; and that lie judged that the groceries were

saflichnt for the crew of such a vessel for thirty days,
in law to .sand that he had no doubt of her being bound -to sea;
reasoable
which was thereason of his giving the information. Upon
care and diU cross-examination he said he bad never lived in the
9 ne
,tF1igtheRCInsercounty of Barnstable, and did not know the course and
ft. (1,11s
to manner of theii' trade and navigation. It further
appresid.,
be
peared in evidence, that on the 19th of December, 1809,
Wvleder
written orders were given, by the collector, to one Anclctor thp
a a..
right, ubada drew Garrett' to detain the schooner,
then lying in Prothat .,.tore- vincetown harbor, and bring ,her to. the port of Earnnoveavc&ie
stable, and there secure her i the best manner possible.
1
bor to athe.r, That the distance from Provincetown to Barnstable
if
as well as to about SO miles by water. That on the Vroyage she accidet~n her? dentilly ran on a point of land, and cduld
not be got off
until she ,was frozen up in the ice, and there remained
intil March following, when she wfis got of, and brought
up to the wharf and'b~r cargo unladen and safely stored.
That about 70 quihntal$ of cod-fish were damaged, but
the residue was in good order. That when she was so
detained she had nine barrels of water on board) but no
bread. That her sails were on shore. 'That on the
21th of December, 1808, the eollector wrote to the se.
cretary of the treasury that-he had detained the schoon.
er Friendship,loaded with dry cod-fish and evidently intended for a foreign port, as she had an.upusual quantity
of small stores on board sufficient for such a 'Voyago and
fully watered, that their plea ivas that she was intended
for a stgre ship, and aneighbo:ing market, both of which
it was sufficiently evident were without foundation.
That on the 3d of January the secretai'y answered, that
the detention (f ihe schooner Was approved and confirmed by tile president. That the collector had used .due
care and diligence in tle preservation of the vessel and
cargo. That on the 30th of Jafua*ry, 1809, the secretary of the treasury wrote to 'the" collector, authorizing
him to, release all vessels detained by him under the

FEBRUARY TERM 1816.
said 11th section of the act aforesaid,.on bond being gi- oT18
yen, irt the manner and to the amount provided by the
V.
2d section of the act of January 9th, 1809. That on the wATKxnxr
15th of February, 1869, the ccllector 'sent the following
written notice to the Plainti~f Watkins, lated at the
custom house. "cSir, I hereby'request of you as the own" er of.the schooner Friendship; of Provincetown, det rained by order under the 11th section of the embargo
"law of the 25th of April, 1808, at Barnstable, to give
" h6nd hero, within three days after giing this piotifi- cation, agreeable to the second sec.tion of the act tQ
"enforce the embargo passed on the 9th ultimo.
'

I am, sir, your humble servant,
JOSE'IH OTIS, Collector."

But that Watkins wholly refused to give such bond.
That ow the 21st of March, 1808, the eollector wrote to
the comptroller'of the treasury, stating that on the 24th
of December, he had detained the schooner Friendship
under the embargo lawfor ading with cod-ish 7without a
.errmit, which detention w approved andIconfirined by
the president. That on the passage of the act of the 9fit
of January, 1809, lie notified the owner that if lie would
give bond agreeably to the second section of the same,
he would give her up to him, which he utterly refused tq
do, or to unload his vessel, for more than a fortni.ght.
That he wished to know whether she ought not to be
libelled.
To this letter the comptroller replied, referring the
collector to the attorucy for the district. That the vessel was afterwards libelled in t~ie district Co'urt. for having taking her cargo on boa d in the night, without I
license, and without the inspection of the proper inspecting officers of the pork. Upon, tial she was acquitted.
The Plaintiff also produced a laborer who stowed the
fish on board the schooner who testified that the vessel
66 was destined to Boston for a market," and that the
vessel and cargo were much injured in conseqluence of
the detention. He also produced testimony that it was
usual for vessels going from Provincetown ito take water enough on board to last theni to Boston and for two

SUPREME COUR T U. S.
or three weeks, because the people did not like the Bos
twi water. Tliat it was usual to take eight or ten bar.
wATINS. rels on such a voyage. Whereupon the judge who tried
....
the cause (chic'justide Parsons) charged the jury " that
"the several matters and things so given in evidence by
the Defendant, Otis, did not in law'maintain the issue
" on his part; ahd also that it was the duty of tlri colc,lectoi', as collector, to have used reasonable care in ascertaining the facts on which to form an opinion; and
, to transmit to the president a statement of those facts
, for his decision."
OTIS

-v.,

The verdict and judgment being against the Defen0ant he brought h;s writ of error.
The case was submitted to this Court, by J. LAW,
for the Plazntiff'in error, and by J. READ, of Malsachuset s,for the Defendant, bpon written notes of argument.
J. L w, for the Plaintiff in error.
The question for consideration, by this Court on this
appeal, arises on the bill of exceptions taken to the opinion and instruction kf the judge bfore whom the frial
was held in the state Court. It divides itself into two
branches.
.t. Whetler the several matters, given in evidence by
Otis and spread on the i-ecord, maintain the issue oiq
his part.
2. Whether' it was his duty to have used reasonable
care in ascertaining the facts on which to form an opi.
nion ; and to transmit a statement of those facts to thb
president for his decision.
1. Ca the first point it will be observed that the issue
joined is, that at the time of the detention the vessel was
ostensibly- bound to some other port of the United
States, in the opinion of 'the collector, with an intent to
violate or evade the provisions of the act of qpril 15,
1808; that the vessel was remoived from Provincetown
to Barnstabie, that 9he might be securely kept until the
decision of the president ithereon; and that the president approved anud confirmed the said detention.

FEBRUARY TERM i~iS.
Is therm any evidence to shoW. that the collector did
OTXS
V.
not enteitarn an opinion that the said vessel was ostensibly bound to some other port in violation of the cm- wAT1UU;
bargo? The information he received came from an
agent of the g.overnment, Isaac Cooper, who wits insp-ctor of customs. He stated to the collector, not
merely his suspicions, but his belief. He also stated, as
the groundo of his belief, that the vessel was fully watered, and contained~a sufficient qpantity of grocerie.4,
stores and provisions for a foreign voyage: information
which is satisfactorily proved tQ have been correct, and
which was stilficient to excite ajust suspicion of the intention of the owners of the vessel. At any rate these
circumstances of suspicion were sufficiently strong to
repel any implication of niala fides in the collector in
forming his opinion.
It is, hoviever; contended on the part of Watkins that
information; coming from such a source, is not to be reptcted, because Coper was unarquainted with the
course of trade from Provincetown to osfon ; aid the
quantity of water im board the schooner was only such
as is generally taken in s!clh voyages. The fact whether Cooper was acqutinted or not with the course of
trade ig immaterial. The only question is, did Otis believe that he was competent to give correct information
on the point. He certainly did think So; at any. ratz
there is no 'evidence to the contrary ; and the circum-,
stance of C.ooper's being an inspector of the custonit
would be alone sufficicnt to accredit his inforifiation.
But even admitting the fact that the quantity of wiater on board the schooner is accounted for, no explana.
tion is given -of the quantity of groceries, small stores
and provisions on board. Although it way lie contended that the water at Provincetown is better than that at
Boston, it will not, I presume, be contended that the
groceries and small stores would be better and cheaper
ht the former place than at the latter.
The circumstance of the sails .belonging to the i'essel
not being on board at the time of the detention can have
no weight against the collector, because it was not to be
supposed he was to wait until the vessel was on the very
point of sailing before lie acted on his opinion.

SUPREME COJURT U. 5;
That the collector was justified in removing the vessel to Provincetown that she might' be safely kept;

OTIS

1v.

IYATKINS. and afterwards in unloading her *,fhen the owner refused to give bond, is settled by the decision of this
Court in the case of Crowell and Hawies v. .M'Fadon.
"cThe landing and storing the cargo, whether to pro"serve itfrom injiury or to secure it from rescue was a
"necessary consequence of the detention." The removal, therefore; of the 'essl from Provincotown,
Which is at the 'ery extremity of Cape Coil, to Bar'nsta,
fle, where the collector resgided and had his office and
his agents, was a necessary consequence of the detention, to. gua. against a rescue, and to save the expenso
of engaging'an adequate guard to take care of the vessel. , There is, in fact, no evidence to piove that stkch
was not his real motive for causing the removal and for
unloading the vessel.
12. The secon'd branch of the judge's instruction
and

-

opiniopa is exceptionable in many r'e~pects.' It implies
that reasonable care had not been used by the collector
ir ascertaining the facts, on which to form -ru opinion.
He had sufficient evidence on which to form an honest
opinion, and he was not bound to go beyond that -evidence, if it was satisfactory to him.
This instruction of the judge also implies that the collector is answerable for the correctness or incorrectness
of his opinion. Such a position cannot be admitted. If
public officers were to be answerable for error of ,Judgment, few would be venturous enough to engage in so
perilous a service ; and it would be in vain to, submit
the performance of any duty to the exerciqo of a sound
discretion. Such a doctrine would establish a new criterion of innocence and guilt; andjudges would be engaged in measuring the mental capacities of ,non. Yet
such wouldbe the consequence of punishing am officer
who had discretionary powers, if the examination was
not into the purity of his intention, but into the correctfiess of the judgment which influenced his conduct.
But the principles of law and the obvious import or
the embargo act, refute quch a doctrine. It is not the
injury done to an individual, or error of judgment, but
malice alone that is the gist of prosecutions against z

FEBRUARY TERTI' 18i.
public officer at Pommon law for malfeasance in office.
oTIS
Gross and flagraso misconduct may justify a presuimpv.
tion of malice;' but -eyn such misconduct, ifit is proved wATEIN9 0
to be the result of mental imbecility or good intentioned
ignorance, is pardonable. In the present casp a collector, exeroising the odious and unpopular duty imp .d
upon him by the act, ought surely to receive simila' indulgence; and the words ofThe act, in authorizing him
t6 detain vessels according to his-opinion of their destination, give him this indulgence., In acting over an extensive district, he is not to be questioned whether he
could have got better information, or ought to have acted on theinformation he received, if lie acted honestly
and conscientiously.
.But this, point is put at rest by the opinion of the
Court in the case of Growdl and Ha-wes v. Wf1,Faddoit,
FebrUay term, 1814!. It was there decided that the law
placed a confidence in the )pinion of the officer, and he
is bound to act according tu his opinion ; and when ho
honestly acts, as he must do in the execution of his "duty, licannot be punished for it. The instruction, therefo re of the jitdge was eyrdl eons; as it was calculated
to. mislead the jury and to establish another test of his
"onductthan the honesty of his opinion,
The last branch of the instruction excepted to is, that
it was the duty of the collector to transmit to the rresisident, for his decision, a statement of the facts which
hiad been thus ascertained with care. In this case it is
contended by Otis that a sufficient statement was made
to the president for his decision ; although the instruction implies that the judge was of a contrrmy opinion.
In his letter to Mr. Gallatin of the.9Ath December, SO8,
lie states, as the ground of his opinion, that the srhooner
had ami unusual quantity of small stores on board, sullicient for a foreign voyage, and was fully watered.
This statement the president thought a sufficient foundation for his decision; and accordingly approved of
the detention.
It has already been shown that the facts stated by the
collector, as the fouifdation of his opinion, were true.
Admitting, however, that the statement was incorrect,
or the facts capable of explanation, was it not the duty
a
VOL. IX.

3SUPTEME COURT U. s,
nTis
,.

of Watkins to address the president concerning the d
tention of his vessel, tQ correct sny mis-statemontb, and
WATE.Ie; explain any dubious facts ? -. IDid he do so, and cati he
now, after such supine or sullen negligence on his parto
complain of the conduct of the collector, who stated,
fairly what he heard, or of the conduct of the president
who decided upon it? It 's his fault only if he "Madono
defence, and took no steps to 'recover his vessel. The
samhe sulleness of conduct induced him to refuse to give
hond for the release of his vessel, when such aproposi,tidn wvas ipade to him.
The case of Bacon v. Oti has nothing to do with this
case.
J. flEAD, of Massactsselts,for.the Defendant in error.

It is understood thet the Supreme Uedurt of the United States has no authority under th6 law which authorizes this appeal, to notice any errors except- such as
appear on the face of the record, and immediately respect the questions of validity or con~t'uctioit of the
constitution, treaties, statutes. commissions or authorities in dispute. Thii being th6'case, it is presumed the
principal question for the decision of the Court in the
cause now under cousideration, -is, was the dhargo
given 4y'chiiefjustice Parsons, in the Supreoe Court of
Massachusetts on the final trial of the cause now under
consideratio'n, in conformity Nith a correct and valid
construction of the laws of the United States.?
He charged the jury isthat it was the duty of the col-'lector, as collector, to have used reasonable care in
" ascertaining the facts on which to form an opihlioxt
- and to transmit to the president a statement of thoso
it facts for his decision."
Collectors of customs were authorized by ttie 1itha
section of the statute of .2pril, 1808, to detain any vessel osten -ibly bound with a cargo to some other port of
the United States; whenever, in their opinion, the intention is to violate or evade any of the provisions of tie
acts laying an embargo, until the decision of the pros!.
dent of the United States be had thereupon.

FEBRUARY TERM i8is.

S17

The collectbr of customs was bound to have some ra- OTIS
-ional ground for his opinion, otherwise he might seize
v.
allyvessels under any circumstances, and it would al- WATICINS.
.ways be.a complete justification, on his part, merely to
say that, in his opinion, the vessels svi;ed wet-o ostensibly bound with a cargo to some other port of the United
States, and W4ere about to violate or evade some of the
provisions of the embargo laws. Such a defrnce it is
apprehended would not amount, in al cases, to a jlistification. The power. and au~thority of a collector is con:.
fined to a vessel ostensibly bound, &c. The collectoi'
should have had rationzd ground to induce him to believe
that the vessel was ostensibly bound, &c.; that there was
an intention of violating the embargo laws. In thecase
Pf Otis v. Bacon, 7 Cranch, 589, this Coirt determined
that Otis detained the vessel of B'acon unlawfully, because, in their opinion, there was no rational ground of
suspicion of an iitended violation of the embargo laws;
and the "Couit in that case wPnt ilto an examination of
the facts, in order to determine whether Otis had rational ground of suspicion. The result of their iwvestigation was in their own words - all rational grounds of
suspicion of an intended violation of the embargo laws
is then done away, &c."
If it then be admitted that a- collector was bound,
when acting under the authority of the embargo laws,
and especially-of the lith section of the law of 251h
.qprit, 1808, to have rational ground for his opinions and

suspicions; it is confidently believed it was the'duty of
such collector to- have used those means to ascertain
facts without which there can be no rational grounds of
belief. "cIt was the duty of the collector, as collector,
.' to have used reasonable care in ascertaining the facts
; on which to form an opinion," as directed by thejudge
in the Court of 'Massachusetts. It was his duty as an
honest man; as an officer in whom the government had
placed the highest confidenre; on'whose suspicions depended the property of hundreds.
Itis also believed that it Was the duty of the collector
not only to have.used reasonable care in ascertaining
the facts on which to form an opinion, .but to transmit
to the president a statement of those facts for his de.

3oTis
V.
WA-VIuS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Collectors were entrusted with greakt and unprecedent.
btl power under the embargo laws. They were under
the highest obligations to execute the trust reposed in
them honestly nd faithfully. The power-of collectors
consisted principally in the influence their statement or
representation must necessarily have 6n the mind of the
president. -Collectors were authorized in certain events to
seize and detain ; but could detain only until the will of
the president could be known. His approbation was
requisite to a continuation of the detention. The president was by-law constituted the sole judge whether it
vessel seized and detained by a collector should be restored or not- .On what evidence was the opini'n of the
president in such cases to be founded ? The opinion of
the president must, from the necessity of the case, be
founded almost universally on the statement or representation of the collector. The collector, under the embargo law, after iehad'seized a vessel, became a witness-and sole 'witness in the case; and.a witness not in
a situation to be cross examined. On the statement or
re;)resqentation of the collector, the, president founded his
opinion. Theit it follows irresistably that it was the
bounden duty pf a collector so situated, to have transmit-'
ted to the president a statement of facts in the case on
Which the opinion of the president was asked. If the
pollector was bound to 'represent the facts tin the case
to tihe president, lie must have been bound to have
used reasonable care in ascertaining those facts, not
only as the foundation of his own opinions or suspicionsi
but also as the foundation .upon Which the ultimate deciion of the president must rest.
If tle opinions of thejudge, in the Court below, wero
considered unsound and were not established, it is apprehended the greatest injustice might be practised ; aild
as no case can readily be-imagined where the conduct of
a collector csuld have been more reprehensible, than in,
the case now under consideration, we beg the Court
again to advert to some tacts in the case now under con6ideration. From the decision of the district .Court,
when the schoorter Friendship, &e. was libelled and tried before that Couft (here perhaps I otight again to note,
thatafter Otis seized Watkins's vessel, &c.and was directed on certain conditions to deliver her tip, and Watkins refused to sccept. her; Otis libelled her and pretended that

FEBRUAY TERX i8i.
he had seized her for loading without -a permit) the OTIS
judge of that Count certified that at the time Otis first
V.
seized the vessel, (December 24th, 1808) Watkins was vATicwS.
loading his vessel in bulk in the day time with dried
cod-fisk avowedly for the Boston market. It also appears, that some water and small stores were carried
on board, not, however, so much as was usually put on
board to go to Boston. Otis, it seems, obtained the information he pussessed, from. a stranger to the place and
to their course of business. If he knew not what qualtity of water and small stores were usual he could not;
know what was unusual. He immediately oent a number of'nien to seize and detain the vessel) and had ho
done no more, the injury .wouldprobably have been trifling. But he brdered them not only to seize and dcthin,
but to bring away and renwve the schooner from Proviicetown one of the safest and best harbors in the 'world
to Barnsabie, a distdnc of more .than thirty miles. In
attempting to obey his commands, the vessel was run
aground and much iiitred'andthe cargo nearly ruined.
He afterwards got the vessel to the wharf and unloaded it.
What statement did he make to the president ? Whatinformation didhe,give? Did bosay he hadreinoved theves.
sel thirty milesP Did he say he had run the vessel agrounL
and ruined the cargo?" No,! He studiously avoided saying end word on the subject. 'He stated to the president
that the vessel was evidently intended for a foreign port,
for, said he, she had an uVnsuaL quantity of small stores
on -board; sufficient for such a voyage ; and 'was fully
'watered. He also stated that the plea of Watkins, that
his vessel was intended for a store ship and a neighboring market was without foundation; did he reprejent
things truly?
Afterwards, on the 30th day of January, i809,
Otis-was directed by the secretary of the trepsury to give
up the vessel and cargo to Watkins. Here the affair
would have ended, but the vessel and cargo bad been rece-iDed by runnifig aground, and Watkins refused under
all tie circumstances to accepther-Otis then 'rote to
the comptroller of the treaaury, on the 2ist of Mlarch, a
few.days after he had unladen the vessel, and stated that
he had delaimod the Tessel on the 2.Ath day of December,
(being the same day on which he originally seized and
removid thesaid vess6l) becatse shew s leaiing without a

SUPREME COURT. U S.
permit. He wioteto the president, tlathehad seized and
detained her because in his opinion she was intended, for
w.&TWX %S. a- foreign part. Thus it is evident that Otis made one
statement to the president, and a verydifferent state.
ment to the comptroller. Bpth statements c,)uld not be
true; and he caref'ully avoided stating to either the re.
moval of the ves eI and the consequent ruin of the property.
o~ixs
'v.

Our'attention is called to a case decided at .the last
*teim of this Court, Crowell et. at. v. '.iFaddeni, 8
Craneh, 91, The Court observed, cc the law places *a
"confidence in the opinion of the offlicer, and lid is bound
, to act according to his opinion and when he honestly
- 6xercises it, as'he must do in the execution of his du"t ty, ie cannot he punished for it." It is believed the
above opinion does not chance the principle laid down
in the case of Bacon'v. Otis, nor is it believed to be against
-the charge of the judge, in the Court below, in the pregent catise.
it is not contended that an officer is bound to be right
and corrett in his opinions and suspicions ; but is not
'an officer bnudd to examine? Is lie not'bointto enq~uire?
Is he not bound to have rational ground for his opinions?
Was not a collector, in the execution of the embargo
laws, bound to use reasonable care in ascertaining the
facts on which his own opinion and that of the president
must depend ?I If in the discharge" of so important k
trust lie dois not use reasonable care in ascertaining
fauts, can he be said honestly to exercise his-opinion ? We
think not.
The original action against the collector is for taking,
carrjing away and destrinjing the vessel and cargo, &c.
df Watkins. If the collector should be able to justify
himself under the 11th section of the embargo act of
April 25th, in seizing and detaining; still lie has no
jistification in removingher, withbercargo, from a safe
and secure port to a distant one, running her on shore
and destroying the cargo and unlading her. It is not
believdd that the president himself had, under that act,
any authority to remove the vessel and cargo as it otas
'emoved,-uch less had the collector any such authority.
But the president gave no order for such removal, nor

FEBRUARY TERM i8i5.
did he approve or lonfirm such Temoval for lie was kept

oTIS

ignorant of it. The question then rests on tli1ower of
v.
the collector, and is two plain to justify the detention of wAT1f:;
'the Court, in attemping to elucidate it. An authority to detai is not an authority to renwve or uinload, especially 'if there be no necessity so to do for security and preservation. Congress thought proper in this section to
vest collectors with power to detain vessels under certain circumstances, ufitil the decision of the president
could be had, but,they gave them no power to remove o1
-unload.; an-d the Court will, not by construction, give
them power which congrest have withheld.
While acting fairly and with goodi faith within the limits of the power thus delegated to them the'collectors
are to be protected, but when they transcend those limits
they- must be answerable for the consequences. The
collector in the r'sent cdse must of-courp be answerable .for all the'damages sustained.by Walkins in consequence of Eie renibval ani4 unlading and destroying his
vessel and cirgo-by which he has been deprived of the
earnings of many years devoted to industry and ecnomnyk and it is believed he has been so deprived wantonly
and unjustly by the gross misconduct of Otis under
colbr of authority vested in.him as deputy collector or
customs-the charge and directioi of the judge, there-.
fore, to the jury'in the Court below, on the fActs disclosed, wais coyreetIt-is urged-on the part ot Otis, that admitting that
Otis's*'tatement to' the president was incorrect, it was
the -dquty of Watkins t6 have addressed thu president on
the Subjedt, to correct any mis-statement of facts, &c ;
and becansehe neglected it he is accused of sullerr silencei
i. It is probable the patient acquiescehee (not sbllen
silence) of Watkins was'owing to his ignorance of tire
-provisions and detaili of the embargo laws.
2. Ifhe badknwiedge of tle subject, ought he topre
aume that Otis would negleetto btate allthe facts to the preo
sident? And besideshetad no opportunity; Otiswroteto
Sthe president on the 24th of Decvmherf and the pueest
dent approvedthe deteintion onthe 3d of January; ten days
after. Itis nrged Otis lived in'Barnstable:. and it was

352
OTIS

SUPREME COURT U. S.

therefore proper to remove the vessel to save ekpensei

,. that he might have her under his own eye, &c. If it were
WAThixA. necessary to rebut'the statement, it is LLfect that tho

town of Barnstable is twelve miles long, and Otis (lid not
live or keep his iffice within four miles of the harbor.
It is also contendeq, that the case of Croieiwt ana
Hawes v,. 0A,'Fadden, does not support the point contended for ii'favor of Otis in the present case.
In the case of M'Faddcn, the agent of McFadden con.
iented to the landing and storing the cargo; but on the
supposition that no such consent had been given, "the
Courtin that.case observe that thelanding and storingthe
-cargo, whether to preserve it from injury or secure it
from rescue, was a necessary consequence of the detention. Has Otis, in the present case, producedany evidence to show that it wasnecessary to temove the vessel
of Watkins to preserve or secure the pr9pp'tty ? In the
case ahovementkoned of Crowell and Haywes v. 01'Fadden, the, vessel of MFadden was not removed from
the harbor of' Hyannis, where she was first detained;
but was merely* brought'to a landing place or wharf
about one half mile from the place where first detained.
In the case now before the Court, the vessel of Watw
kins was rcuo-ned from Provincetown to Barnstable, a
distance of more' than thiirtv miles. The harbor of
Provincetown is one of the safest in the world; that of
HTArnstable less secure. By the removal and running
aground, the vessel and' cargo of Watkins werbrprinci.
pally lost. IEnecesaary to unlade and store the cargo,
it. rhight have been better and easier done at Provincetown than at Barnstable.
It is confidently believed this Court$ w'ill not, by con.
struction, extend th authority 6f collectors undee the embargo laws to distant .removals. No removal wil! be
P'ermittd ':inlessabsolutely necessary to preserve or secure the property. Otis has not produced a tittle of evidence to sh'bw that any such necessity existed. On the
other han'd it has been abundantly proved to have been
unnecessary and ruinous.

FEBRUARIY TERM I815.
.M[arch 10th. SAbsent.:..ToDD,
LIVINGSTON,

.

J. delivered the opinion of the Court as

follows:

This is an action of trespass; brought in fho Supreme
Judicial Court of the commonwealth of Mass'achtsetts,
for taking, carrying away aqd destro3 ing a certain
schooner called the Friendship, witr her carza. .belonging to the Plaintiff below.
The declaration is in common form. The Defendant
pleaded that, as deputy collectoi for tho" district of
Barnstable, he detained and removed from the port and
harbor of Provincetown to the port and harbor of
Barnstable, the said vessel and cargb, that they might
be securely kept; the said schooner and "carko, at the
time of suchi detention, lying in the said harbor of Provincetown, .within the district aforesaid, pstensibly bound
to some other por of the United States, with an i-tcnt,

in the opinion of the Defendant, to violate or evade thq
provisions of the embargo laws. He further pleaded
that he caused the said -vessel to be detained go that the
decision of the president of the .United States might be
had thereon, whoi afterwards, upon his report and re:
presentation. did approve and confirm the said detention.
The Plaintiff replies that the- Defendant committed
the trespass of his own wrong, and without any such
cause, &c. Issue being joined thereon.
On a bill of exceptions taken to the charge of the
Gourt, the following facts appear to.ha~e been given in
evidence , That the schooner in question, in the month
of December, 1808, was lying at Provihcetown, wholly
loaded with cod-fish. She had also a barrel of beef, a
number of small stores and groceries, with three or our
barrels of water, and a number of kegs of pickled lobsters. .That an inspector of the customs, seting the
Friendship in this situation, and judging that the groceries were sufficient for the crew of such a vessel for
thirty days, nd having no -doubt of her being bound to
sea, gave information of such, his suspicions, to the collector, who gave a written order to one .anfett to detain

VoL. IX.

&

OTx
V0.
WATKINS.

SUPREME COURT V. S.
oTIs

V.
WAXKINS.
a

---

and to bring her into the port of Barnstable, and there.
secure her in the best manner possible. That Ganett
proceeded to Provincetown with about thirty men, and
removed the said vessel to Barnstable, about ton leagues,

by water; but when attempting to come up to a wharf,
she accidentally ran.9n to a Imint of )and which projected into the water, and there stuck fast. That she
could not be got off during that tide which soon left her;
and the weather Oas very cold, and the harbor was
frozen up for a long time, so that the schooner could not
•be removed. That the Defendant gave notice, by letter,
to the secretary of the treasury of the, United States, of
th6 detention of said vessel, stating, at the same time,
his reasons for believing that "she waM qvidently intended for a foi'eign port" vwhich detention was ap.
proved of an'd confirmed by the president. That as
sorn as the weatlger would termit, which was in the
month of March following, the Defendant caused the
said schooner to-be brought to. a wharf, and unloaded
and secured the cargo. That about 60 or 70 quivjtalo
of fish were damaged, and the rest in good order. There
was, also, evidence, on the part of the Plaintiff, to prove
that the Friendship was actually bound to Boston, and
the extent of the injury which 'his property htd sustined.
,The Court charged the jury that tlie several matters
and things so given in evidence bytho"Defenqant " did
"6not, in law, maintain the issue aforesaid on his part;
6c aild also that it was the duty of the collector, as colif lector, to have used reasonable care in ascertaini'n6
"t the facts on Which to form an opinion, and 'to tranA"t mit to the president a statementof those facts for his
",decision." On an exception to the charge, the cause
now comes before us, it having been' removed into this
Court under the 25th section of the judiciary act; and
whether it wver correct or not, is the question which is
now to be decided.
This seizure'was madelunder the iith seocti6n of the
act or the 25th of April, 1908, vol. 9, p. i0, which'pro-

Vides "That the collectors of the customs be and they
"are hereby respectively authorized to detain any ves,
"sel ostensibly bound with a.cargo to some other port
66 of the United States, wlienever, in their o] jnions, the

FEBRUARY TERM ism.
"intention is to violate or evade any of the provisions
" of the acts laying an embargo, until the, decision of

OTIS
V.

"tthe president of the 'United States be had thereupon.-'

VATKIN11.

Thb issue tenderci by the Defendant, and on which
the. parties went to triA, was whether the vessel and
cargo were detained beca'se, in the opinion of the Defendant, she intended, although ostensibly bound to a
port in'the United States, to violate or evade the provisions of the embargo lavs; and whether the vessel was
removed to Barnstable that she might be securely kept
until the decision of the president was knoun.
If there were any evidence to prove this issue, it
should have been left 0i the jury to draw their own conclusions. If the Defendant had taken upon himself to
say that the vessel did intend to violate the embargo
laws,'and that such removal was absolutely necessary
for her secure detention, such charge would have been
less exceptionable; but that it was the opinion of the
collector that such violation was in contemplation, and
that such removal was for the purpose of securing the
vessel, which were the facts in issue, might very well
have been inferr'ed b ,the jury from the evidence before
them. Indeed, it would have been difficult for them to
have come to a different conclusion; for the collector,
from the ihforruation which he received, could scarcely
fail to form the opinion he did; and there was no evidence whatever to induce them to believe that she could
have been removed to Barnstable, considering the care
which wastaken of her during her removal and after
her arrival there, for any other purpose but for that
alleged in the plea. In this particular, then, it is the
opinion of a maj rity of the Court that the charge was
erroneous.
The charge is deemed incorrect in another respect.
The jury are tpld that it was the collector's duty to have
used reasonable care in ascertaining the facts on which
to form an ouinion
-This instruction implies that the collector is liable if
'he form an incorrect opinion, or if, in the opinion of the
jury, it shall have been made unadvisedly or without
reasonable care and diligence. But the law exposes

SUPRME COURT U. S.
bTIS
. V.
7A.wRKINS.
-

his conduct to no sudh scrutiny. If it. did, no public
officer would bo'hardy enough to act pnder it. If the
jury believed that he honestly entertained the opinion
under which lie acted, although they might think it incorrect and formed hastily or without sufficient grounds,
lie would be entitled to their protection. Such was the
opinion of this Court in the case of Crowuell and /avwes
v. . ,Faddon, decided at the last term. ''his does not
preclude .proof, on the part of the Plaintill, showing
malice or dther circumstances which may impeach the
integrity of the transaction. The jury, then, were misled when their attention was, drawn from the fact who.
ther the Defendant really entertained such opinion, and
were irected, to enquire'into the reasonable care with
which it was formed, which left them at liJmerty to find
a verdict against the Defendant, however honestly and
fairly he may have acted.
It is the opinion of the Court that the judgment of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts must, for the
reasons assigned, be reversed, and the cause be remanded,for further proceedings.
AIARsHAmL,

Ch. . after stating the facts of the caso

delivered his separate opinion as follows:
As this Court can notice no other error than such as
may be founded on a miscodistruction of the act of congress under which the Defendant justified the taking
and carrying away charged in the declaration, the
charge of the judge can be considered so far only as it
respects that act.
The section to which the plea refers is in these words:
d Be it enacted," &c.
In construing this law it has already been decided in
this Court that the collector is not liable for the deten'iton of a vessel ",ostensibly bound, with a cargo, to
"6some other port of the United States whenever, in hia
di opinion, the intention is to violate or evade any of the
cc provisiins of the acts laying an embargo, until the de"cision of the president of the United States be had
c thereon." For the correctness of this opinion he- is
not responsible. If, hin
truth, he has formed it, his duty

FEBRUARY TERM i81.
adbliges him to act upon it; and when the law affords

OTIS
T.
him no other guide than his own judgment, and declares
that judgment to be c6nclusiie in the case it must cost. NVIT urs.
stitute his protection, although it be erroneous. Tie
legislature did not intend to expose the collector to the
Jiazard of being obliged to show that he had probable
cause for the opinion he had formed. If, in reality, he
had formed it, the law justifies him for actin. uplur it.
If it can be proved, either from the gross oppression of
the case, or from other proper testimony, that the collector did not in fact entertain the opinion under N%
hich
he professed to act, some doubt may be entertained of
lis being justified by the law; but if the opinion avowed was real, though mistaken. a detention under that
opinion is lawful.
But the -act of congress authorizes only a detention or
the vessel, not its removal. The collector did remove
the vessel from one harbor into another, a distance of
about thirty miles by water, and in this removal the in-"
jury was sustained. As an independent act (his proceedingp is not'justified by the law. It was the duty of
the collector to detain the vessel; and all acts which
were necessary, as means to the end, were lawful;i but
unless this removal was necessary for the .purposo of
detention, it is not protected by the law.
The charze of the judge will now be examined.
He instructed the jury " that the several matters and
6,things so given in evidence by the said William Otis,
s;did not in law maintain the issue on his part."
If this instruction could be understood as conveying
to the jury an opinion that Otis had notjustified the detention of the vessel, the Court would feel no hesitation
in pronouncin. it err()neous. But it was ncessary for
Otis to justify the removal as well -s the detention, and
he could only justify the removal by showing that it was
necessary to a secure detention. Had he offered any testimony whatever to this point, it might have been inculnbent on the judge vo submit that testimoity to the jury.
But he has offered no testimony whatever to it. This
Court therefore cannot say that the judge of the state
Court has erred in saying that the matters and thigs

SUPREME COURT U. 'S.
OTIS

given inevidence by the said William Otis, did not in law

support his plea. Certainly they did nbt make out a
v.
wAWris. justificatidn under the act of congress.
Thejudge further instructed thejury "that it was the
"duty of the collector, as collector, to have used reason- able care in ascertaining the facts on which to form
", an opinion, and to transmit to th6 president a state,"ment of those facts for his decision. '
The act authorizes the collector to detain a vessel on
his own mere suspicion, ", until the decision of the President of the United States, be had thereupon."
On what is the decision of the President to be had?
Clearly on the further detention of the vessel, and on the
future proceedings of the collector respecting her.
Whenever the president acts, he is expected to act upon
information ; and from whom, in this instance, is h;, information to be derived? Unquestionably from the collector. T.he.la.Av does not indeed say in terms thatilihcollector ,shall take reasonable care in ascertainhng the
facts," or that he shall afterwards communicate those
facts correctly to the presidet; and if this be not a fair
,ind necessary construction of the act, the julge has
misconstrued the law, and his judgment ought to bo revcrsed. But it seems to be an inference which must be
drawh from the words of the law. It follows neceao'nily from the duties of forming an opinion and of commuiicati g that opinion to the president for his decision in
the case, that reasonable care ought to b,' used in collecting the facts to be statd to the president and that
the statement ought to be made.
I cannot say that the Court of Massachusetts has or.
red in its construction of the act 6f congress under which
the Defendant justifies the trespass alledged in the de.
clarat.ion.

