FEBRUARY TERM iSiS.
The counsel for the captors have claimed their costs
and expenses, on the ground that there was probable

cause of capture,

TnE

.1AEY,
STAF OnDy

This claim is sustained by the Court. Further proof
has been reqvired, and the latehess of the period at
which the Mary was found bn the ocean. justified a suspicion that her case was not one to which the instructions of the president extended.
-The sentence of the Circuit Court condemning the
ca.rgb of the Mary is reversed, and the cause is remanded to that Court with directions to dismiss the libel so
far as respects the cargo, and to restorc the same to the
Claimants, and to allow the captors their reasonabje
costs and expenses.

DOE,

LEssEE OF

LEWIS An WIFE,
V.

MFARLA.ND

i815.
t b

Ila

AND OTHERB.

bsed ....ToDD, J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court, for the district of Ken-itui otnes.
tat
E
tacky, in an action
- of ejectment.
,
ex.cutor or n
*U, mzde la

The case was submitted to the Court at last term, by Vwni, ,kthe
~w Plinti
WicK-i"FJbr
WVacRLIFE, for
1w
Plain~f~rtril
it error, and G. At. BiBE, vng
e r,to land
for the Defie7dants,. upon notes of an argument, and was it, Fuenky,
argued at this term, Vy C. LE.,for the 'laififfs in error. 1,utm tea.

February27th. .AbSellt....TODD,
•
• J.
MAfsn.m
as follows:

, Ch. J3. delivered tLe opinion of the Court

menttry in

. toto,
Ke
enable him
mntinf an 1P
eKh radt ra
im
Kentucky.
Ir"Ue "ihamZ

This is a writ of error'to a judgment rendered in the . I"
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of the vboic
a
Kentucky, in an ejectment by the Plaintiffs in error. .c, dee4
a ".
Ihi
ag" nst the Defendants.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
At the trial of the cause, the Plaintiffs produced and
read in evidence, a patent from the commonwealth of
Virginia, granting certain lands therein dcscribed i ing
in the county of-Nelson, in the now state of Kentucky,
to John May, John Banister, Kennon Jones, Thotnas
'IConico, He then offered in
mFAn- Shore and Christopher
evidence the last will and, testament of John May. tie.
LAND
&oTH ERS. ceased, which contained this clause, ,,I give and devise
,,my land to my executors, herein after named, and to
undhicd
inte- " the survivors
rest in the
• "
"Oand surviw- of such of them as may act,
rat, Ta
and their heirs, for the purpose of selling as much thereDoz,
.ESS.E oi
x.Bwis &
wrFE
T.

Ivcn in evi- "
ence.

of as will pay all my debts."

This will was proved and admitted to record according to the laws (if Virginia, while Kentucky was a part
of that state, and is duly certified by the.proper authority. The Plaintiff., Ann Lewis, (wire of the other Plaintiff, Thomas Lewis.) who was an executrix named in the
wilf of theasaid John Wlity, alone qualified as executrix,
and took upon herself the burthen of executing the said
will; but she did not 'qualify, and. did not obtain her letters testamentary mnhtil After Kenturky had become an
independent state.
The counsel for the Defe'ndants, objected to the admissibilitv of the will and certificate thereto sisbjoins d,
because the said Ann hd only qualified, and sued out
letters testamentary in the state of Vit.ginia, and not'in
the state of Kentucky where the land lies. Tte Court
sustained the objection, and the will was not permitted
to go in evidence to the jury. To this opinion an exception was taken. There was also a secand exreption taken on the same rRjection of evidence, which depends
entirely on the correctness of the first opinion, and there.
fore need not be particularly stated.
It has been decided in this Courtthat letters testamen.
tary give to the executor no authority to sue for the
personal estate of the testator out of the jurisdiction of
the power by which those letters are granted. But this
decision has never been understood to extend to a suit
for lands. devised to an executor. In such case the cxecutor sues as devisee. Hi'. right is derived from the
will, and the letters testamentary do not give the title
The executors are trustees for the purposes of the will.

FEBRUARY TERII i 115.
This will may be consio1ered as requiring that the exe- DoE,
cutai s shall 'actto enable thmsvlv s to t.ke under the z.Essun or
devise to-them ; but when the conditio is performed, LEwIs &
those who have performed it, take under the %ill. That wiF.
T.
the executrix took upon herself that character after the
separation of Kentucky from Virginia, is of no conse- mcpxunquence. When she did take it upon herself. the condi- MAND
tiun on which the devise was made, %ias performed, and &OTnEnsi
she took as devisee undt r the will ; and the act consummating hlr title, had relation to the time of its commenceInent, which was before the separation of the two states.
"Wereit even necessary, which is-not admittedi to record
this will in Kentucky, that objection was not made to the
instrument, and therefore the Court cannotsuppose it to
exist. The will was rjccted because the ex(cttrix had
not qualified in Kentucky, and this objection is not
deemed a valid one.
An objection was also taken to a deed, which wwq orfered in evidence, on the ground of an all6geid variance
between it, as proaf, and the allegations in the declaration. 'The deed was not permitted top).in evidence to the
jury; arid to this opinion, also, an excepti'n.was taken.
The variance is not pointed out. If the objection to
the deed is, that it conveys only an undivided intrest,3
while the declaration clainis the whole tract, the objection ought not to have been sustain.ed ; but on the propriety of rejecting the deed it is not nacemsary to give
an opinion, since the judgment must be rccrsed on the
first point.
1adgment reversed, and the cause. remanded wifl directions to grant a new trial and to permit the will to be
read in evidence.

CLARK'S EXECUTORS -v.VAN RIEMSDYK.

181.
FeL

-Absent....TODD,

M2.

.

THIS cause was this day argued by Bun.mss and The ansv
the Oppdlaiits,
and HAASPu, for 11 4- orciiefl-en.
the reporter,
pdte, in the absence of
VOL. IN.
20
STJCKTON,for

