FEBRUARY TERII i 115.
This will may be consio1ered as requiring that the exe- DoE,
cutai s shall 'actto enable thmsvlv s to t.ke under the z.Essun or
devise to-them ; but when the conditio is performed, LEwIs &
those who have performed it, take under the %ill. That wiF.
T.
the executrix took upon herself that character after the
separation of Kentucky from Virginia, is of no conse- mcpxunquence. When she did take it upon herself. the condi- MAND
tiun on which the devise was made, %ias performed, and &OTnEnsi
she took as devisee undt r the will ; and the act consummating hlr title, had relation to the time of its commenceInent, which was before the separation of the two states.
"Wereit even necessary, which is-not admittedi to record
this will in Kentucky, that objection was not made to the
instrument, and therefore the Court cannotsuppose it to
exist. The will was rjccted because the ex(cttrix had
not qualified in Kentucky, and this objection is not
deemed a valid one.
An objection was also taken to a deed, which wwq orfered in evidence, on the ground of an all6geid variance
between it, as proaf, and the allegations in the declaration. 'The deed was not permitted top).in evidence to the
jury; arid to this opinion, also, an excepti'n.was taken.
The variance is not pointed out. If the objection to
the deed is, that it conveys only an undivided intrest,3
while the declaration clainis the whole tract, the objection ought not to have been sustain.ed ; but on the propriety of rejecting the deed it is not nacemsary to give
an opinion, since the judgment must be rccrsed on the
first point.
1adgment reversed, and the cause. remanded wifl directions to grant a new trial and to permit the will to be
read in evidence.

CLARK'S EXECUTORS -v.VAN RIEMSDYK.

181.
FeL

-Absent....TODD,

M2.

.

THIS cause was this day argued by Bun.mss and The ansv
the Oppdlaiits,
and HAASPu, for 11 4- orciiefl-en.
the reporter,
pdte, in the absence of
VOL. IN.
20
STJCKTON,for

SUPREME COURT U. I

1

Feliruary28th. A~bsent....To)D,

C.LAVICS
EXR S.

MAIsHALL, Ch.
as follows.:

v.
VAN

.

. delivered the opinion of the Court

IIIEMS-

This is an appeal from a decree made in the Circuit

DYK.
-

eery

C,'urt of the United States for the district of Rhode
is nrt evi- Island.
-.

deuee against

'his co-defen-

ant-nor is
The Appelfec Aled his bill in that Court, praying that
Ws depositon, the Appellants and Tames Munro, Samuel Snow, and
altnulh lie
hail ben dis- Berjamin. Munro, late merchants trading tnder the firm
chargd
Snow and Munro, might be decreed to pay
the act underrofVunro,
ofahim tLe amount of a bill of exchange draxin in his, fasembly of

Rhode Tsiljd vor at Batavia, by Bcnjamin Munro, at nine months
(of 57)ol 'sihl.t, on Messrs. Damnel Cronimelin and sons, nter°

for the sum of 21,488 guilders 01n
or tothe date account of' advances mad( by the said Riemsdyk for
ofhar,, atdal the use of the I'efendants in
the Circuit Court.
conti-acts pri- chants, Amsterdam,

though
debt ;n the
suit

ws a debt

In lhe year 1805, John Innes Clark and Munro,

contirctt. r-i. Snow and Munro, being joint owners of the ship Pat-

6r tosuc,) dis- ters,,n in .qu.1 noie.ties. prijected a voyage to Batavia,
clh, g,, tie
d,.,t having and appinted Benjamin Munro, one of fhe house of
b~en Weitract- Monro, Snow and Miunro, supercargo. The ship cared in a Foreign

ritd out some goods on account of the owners, and other
goods on,acrount of different persons, the whole to be
ina-sted in a return cargo, on the profits (f which tlhe
tire, and di- ship owners were to receive 15 per cent. instead of
co:*l1try.
An answer ih
chn
-ry,
though poi-

redtly resp,,n- fleeight.
sive io a Alel
gation in the

bi, may Iouitwidedby

The bill charges that the supercaigo was empowered
verbally, in case of a deficienry of fAnds at Batavia, to

ipecilly if it load the'ship with a return cargo,' to take up money fin
be respecting th ,Joint account of the owners, and, if necessary, to

in the ,,at,. draw bills of excl.ange therefor on Messrs. Daniel
of tb,,gs ca.n- Crmelin and sons, of Amsterdam, or on the owners.
rot be within
the personal

The Patterson returned in the spring of 1806a with 1
by cargo derived from the funds taken out in the outward

,,owD'Zefdant.
ee
of
fihe

Ad

nil

the O1-fendant, voyage.
that hs testator gave r a-

thoit, to A. In March. 1806, the Patterson again sailed to Batatodrw a bill Via on a voyageiji all respects similar to the first. That
ecabj aa- part of the cargo which was furnished by the ownera

FEBRUARY TERM 18i5.
(usisted of wines and some other inconsiderable arti- cA.ieL
des. Being unable to sell the wine in Batavia, tle exie's.
supercargo placed it fir sale in the hands of Mr. Van
W.
Riemsdyk, the Defendant in error. Rather than ieVA.
turn %%ithoutfilling the vessel for the owners, lie drew DitEs.sbills on them to the amount of 52.389 89; and also
w&
7c.
drew on Messrs. Crommelin and sons, inerchits of
Amsterdam, tile bill fior which this suit was brought. awr to an a
The bill is drawn by Benjamin Minro in his own name, "uluitor,
liut it contains a direction to (harge the sameto John as valldepric
h
Innes Clark and Munro, Snowv aidl Munro, inerchanms tw tmCemll
al h's reof Providence, Rhode Island, Norrl America. Of all ncui; untem
b)fheari.t
these proceedings the owners were regularl) inormed the
also deny the
by letter from Benjamin Munro, their supercargo.
suj.n,,=The ship returned safe in larch, 1807, and tile proceeds of the cargo pfirchased by these bills were ret eived by the owners. The bills drawn on the owners were
duly paid; but no provision was made for that drawn
on Daniel Crommelin and sons.

tator to the
wch bili.

ror
=zrA
quenta sukb.
is cqui-lent
a oria
to
nufthoritv
Semb: that a

In Miv, 1807; the ship proceeded on a third voyage dis-1d-ga Un.
der till =t of
to Batavia with Benjamin Munro again supercargo.
. nctbly of
The owners appear to have relied.on the wine placed in Me rtnad
the hands of Van Riemsdyk on the second voyage, for (of 1756) from
producing the fuqds with which to procure their part uf
ccntrrtS
the return cargo. In June, t807, Nfunro, Snow antd anst demn s
nt
Munro became insolvent; and, according to the laws ofK"e
Rhode Island, obtained a certificate discharging thm such dL.
from the claim of their creditors, so far as such dis- . malede urx
or'
charge could be affected by a law of the state. They
had previously trasferred, for a valuable consideration, ol,
ntprotectW11
to John Innes Clark, all their interest in the ship, fe "'I a ,e a
return cargo and the accruing freight, the whole of debt coautwhich came into his possession on the return of the yes- ediu ,.
sel. In December, 1807, the bill was presented to Messrs.
Daniel Crommelin and sons, and protested for non-acceptance; and in October. 1808, it was protested for
non-payment. Neither Clark nor Munro, Snow and
Munro had any funds in the hands or Messrs. Daniel
Ctommelin and sons.
John Innes Clark departed this life. in Noverber,
1808, having first made his last will and testament, of
which the Plaintiffs in error -re executors, who have

I56

SUPREME COURT U. S,

ATiA's assets in their hands more than sufficient to, satisfy thc
3LxR's."

TAN

itEinsDIK.

claim of Van Riemsdyk.
The Defendants, Munro, Snow and Munro, in their
answer, acknowitldge all the material allegations of the
bill, and expressly admit the authority of Benjamin
Munro to draw the bill of exchange for which this suit
was instituted. But they state their insolvency ; and
claim the benefit of the certificate of discharge granted
thpm in pursuance of the laws of the state of Rhode
Island.
Clark's execuitors deny that Benjamin Munro had
any authority to take up money on credit for any purpose whatever, or to draw bills of exchange; and assert
'that both the Complainant and Benjamin Munro kn w
liat he had nui such authority. They admit that if the
noney was taken up, it was for the joint use of the ship
ownelrs, but not on their credit, It was, they say, on
the sole credit of Benjamin Munro.
At the hearing., the hill was dismissed as to Munro
snow and Munro, and a decree was made against
Clark's executors for the sum of St i,526 1i being the
amount of the sum specified in the bill of exchange in
the Complainant's bill specified, together with ten per
ceht. damages for the non-payment thereof, and interest
upon both these sums. r..om the timl when the said bill
of exchange became due to the tiine of rendering tlhQ
deci ee.
From this decree the executors of the said John Innes
Clark-prayetd an appeal to this Court.
In determining the extent of' Clark's liability, the
authority of Benjamin Munro to draw this bill becomes
it question of material inaportance.
Ef the answer of
iIunro, Snow and Manro, ,rtheir depositions taken in
the caus., be admnigahle evidence against Clark's executors, this question is decided. But toe admissibility of
their answer, for this purpose depends on the establishment of such apartnership as would authorize the draft QC
Maonro as one-of the partners ; anti the admissibility of
their depositions depends on their being 'ondered disinterested witnesses by the certificate of discharge sta.

FEBRLTARY TERM 18ig.
ted in the prdceeAings. The Court, being satisfied on cr"A?'E
neiti-er of these points, will exclude both the answer .xu's.
and deposititions, and consider the cause indepenV.

dently of them.

IVAn

RrngAs.
The letter of Benjamin Munro, written at Batavia,
on the 3d of Novemlier, 1806, the day on which the bill
in favor of Van Riemsdyk was drawn, and addressed
to John hnnes Clark, esquire, and to Messrs. Munro,
Snow and Munro, contains these passagesI have
s shplid on board the Patterson on your account. and
c,risk, 505 Pecols Jacatia coffee, agreeably to invoice
•cand bdl of lading inclosed. I have drawn on youfor
".the amount of S$2389 89, at ninety days sight, infa.6 v of the several officers, &c. on board the Patterson,
46being the amount of money they had remaining over
W"their priviliges, and which I have allowed them iS
cp'Fr cent. advance thereon, and which drafts you wil
, please to honor. A statement thereof r annex. I have
c,also drawn on Messrs. Daniel Crommelin and sons
cc merchants, Amsterdam, at nine months sight, in $aIs vor of the honorable William V. H. Van Riemsdyk of
",this place for the amount of 2i'88 guilders on account
cc of the Patterson, and which bills you will, no doubt
1,prepare fOV timely, as Lhave written those gentlemen."
cc I leave all the Maderia wine in the hands of the hocc norAble Mr. Reimsdyk, as. it will iot sell at all, I
,6 transmit his receipt for the same. I have receivedmo
f -advance.on the wine."
To this letter was annoxed a statement of the cargb
of the Patterson, containing this item-"c lFor owners
of Patterson, 505 Pecols coffee."
There wps, also the following memorandum:
"Memorandum of hills payable by you at ninety

cdays-sightt viz:
66

cc Captain Jamps Shaw, Ist, 2d, 8d, exchange,
$758 75, &c amounting in the whole to S2,389 89.

"Amount of bills drawn on Xlessrs. Daniel C omme
cc lin and sonsmerchants, Amsterdam, payable Oy them

DY,.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CLARK'S

ExR's.
TA

niEMSDYK.
---

" at nine months sl ht, in favor of the honorable

Vm.

cc V. H. Van Riemsdyk, viz:
, Four bills of exchange, Ist, 2d, 3(1, 4th. for the
cc amount of 21,4.88 guilders, equal to $8,595. I have
"allowed Mr. Ihonisdyk on the money, 20 per cent.
" advance/'
It is impossible to read this letter and these memoranda without feeling a conviction that Benjamin Munro believed himself to be actink within the scope of his
authority, and supposed that neither his bills on the
owners, nor that on Crommelin and sons, would be considered by them as an extraordinary or unexpected
transaction. He makes no apology for what had been
done; gives no description of his difficulties and embarrassments at being disappointed in Batavia by not receiving the funds'on which he relied for their return
eargo, and of his doubts whether the measure to which
-hehad resorted in consequence of that disappointment,
would be approved by them. His language is the language of an agent acting within his powers on a con.
tingency which had been foreseen and provided for.
Having stated the bills drawn on them, he adds, in the
usual style -of letters of notice, " which drafts you will
",please to honor." After stating the drafts on Crommelini and sons, lie adds, 9 which bills you will no doubt

" prepare for timely, as I have written those gentlemen."

This is not the language of an agent conscious of having transcended his powers.
Butit will be admitted that the opinion of the agent
on the extent of his powers will not bind his principals.

Let us, then enquireso far as the testimony will inform
us, into the opinion entertained on this point by the
principals themselves.
On theist of November, 1806, at Batavia, Benjamin
Munro stated an account current between himself and
the owners of the. ship Patterson, according to which
the executors of John fnnes Clark admit the settlement
to have beem made on the arrival of theovessel. That
account debits the owners with $9090, the amount ot invoice of,505 Pecols of cofee shipped on board the Patterson, on their account and risk, and with the 15 por

FEBRUAIY, TERB 18M

169

eent. advuce on thc bills drawnon them, and the 20 per cL'&mn
cent. advanced (n the, bills drawn 'on Crommelin and Ex.'s.
T.
sons, *tnd credits them with the amount of those bills.
The entry of the last mentivned bills is thus expressed,
vz
, hills drawn on lessrs. Daniel Cton:melin and sons, uivLs" payable by you at nine months sight."
1iE.
This account curges the owners with the disbursements of the vessel, which exceed the funds in the bands
of.Munro, other than those produced by the bills of exchage, so that the whole return cargo \was jtirchased
by these bills. Not a sentence escayes either of the
owners, disapproving the conduct of Munro, or expressing surprize- at it. With that full know'leOge of the
whole transaction which is given by the. letter orT Munro, by the statement annexed to it, anid by the account;
with full informatidn tlhat the whole cargo was purchased with bills drawn on them antd on a hous in Amsterdam, to he paid by them, they receive the cr.,rgo antd
dispose &fit-to a very considerable. profit. Can they
-nowbe permitted, in a Court of conscience to question
the authority by which the bills were drawn.
The circumstances which prove their acquiescence in
this authority are, not yet exhausted. The Patterson
sails on a third voyage to Batavia, and Benjamin IMnr'o is again rnupercar'go. His conduct iti diawing bilr
on the second voyage is not censured. He is not informe-a that this is a power niot confided to him ; that
h has mistaken the extent of his authority; that his
principals are not bound by his drafts. Ie goes again
t&'India in the full belief that his conduct had met with
1ierfect approbation ahd that no intention existed to
throw upon him the bills he had drawn on Amsterdam
for monieg. with whicli he had purchased the second cargo. In this belief the prdceeds of the wines, placed in
the hands'of Van Riemsdyk, are drawn out of his hands
and invested in aother return cargo for, the owners of
the Pattirson.
Had there not been an entire acquiescence in the bill
drawn by him on Cromijielin and sons, a fil admission
on thd part of his principals that they were responsible
for that bill, and thdt no attempt would be made to throw
it on hin can it be believed that the proceeds of these

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CL.AR 'S wines would have been invested in a return cargo for
P.xi's. the owners of the ship? Had Van Rienisdyk suspected
v.
that the owners would disclaim the authority of their
vAN
supercargo to draw bills, and would.fail to pifce funds
nxnms- in Amsterdam to meet theln, and would endeavor to
IYK.
turn him over to that supercargo for payment, is it cre-,
dible that he would have permitted the proceeds of this
wine to pass out of his hands without an attempt to socure himself?
These circumstances strengthen the conviction growins out of the whole cofiluct 1f the owners, that in drawing the bill for which this suit was instituted, Benjamia
Munro acted within his authority.
This testimony is opposed by the answer of Clark's
executors ; and the rule that an answer must prevail
unless contradicted by one witness as well as by circumstances, is said' to be so inflexible that the strongest circumstances will not themselves be sufficient to outweigh
an answer.
The general rule that either two witnesses or one witness with probable circumstances will be required td
6utweigh an.anqtwer asserting a fact responsiy:ely to a
bill, is admitted. The reason upon which the rule
staiids, is this. The Plaintiff calls upon thet Defdndant
to answer an allegation lie makes, and thereby admits
the ansiver to be evidence.. If it. is testimony. it is equal
Jo the testimony of any other witnesq ; and as the Plaintiff cannot prevail if the. balance of proof be not in his
favor, he must have circumstances in addition to his
single witness, in. order to turn the balance. But certainly there may be evidence arising from circumstances
stronger than the testimony of any single witness.
The weight of an answer must also. from the nature
of evidence, dopend, in some degree, on the fact staleo.
It t Defendant asserts a fact which is not and cannot be
within his own knowl,'dge, the nature of his tebtimony
Zca'not be changed by-the positiveness of'his assetltion.
The strength of his belief may have 6etraved him into a
mode of expression of wiich he. was not fully app'izod.
When he intended to utter only a strong conviction of
the existence of a particular factp 'ok what he deemed an

FEBRUARY TERM--is8.
infallible deduction from ficts which were known to him, cLAtg's
he may assert that beliefor thatdeduction in terms which txu's.
convey the idea of his knowing the fact itself. Thus, when
V.
the executorssay that John Inres Clark never gave BenVAf
jamin Munro authority to take up money or to draw nxi mgbills, when they assert that Riemsdyk, who was in nj,.
Batavia, did nottake this bill on the credit of the owners --of tile Patterson, but on the sole cmdit of Btiijamin.
Munro, they assert facts which cannot be williin their
own knowledge. In the first instance they speak from
belief; in the last they swear to a deductior which they
inake from the admitted fact that Munro could show no
iNTitten authority. Tbese traits in the. character of testimony must be perceived by the Court. and must he allowed their due weight, whether the evidence be givn in
the form of an answer or a depositiun. The respondents
could found their assertions only on belief; they ought
so to have" expres~ed themselves ; an(I their having,
perhaps- incautiously, used terms indicating a knowledge
of what in the nature of things they could not know.
cannot give to their answer more bffect than it would
have been entitled to, had tley been more circumspect
in their language.
But were the Court to allow to this answer all the
weight which is claimed for it by counsel, it vould not
ava'l his clients. It asserts that Munro drew bills without authority from his owners, but does not, assert that
his owners never confirmed his acts. It will not be denied that the acts of an agent, done. without autholity,
may be so ratified and confirzned by his principals as to
bind them in like manner as if airorigfinal authority had
existed. The application of this principle to the case
at bar is as little to be denied as the' principle itselfi
The transactions which have been urged to show an
original authority to ilraw the bill in question, Aill be
recollected 'Without being recapitulated. The Court is
of opinion that they amount to a full confirnation of
those proceedings of their agent which had been communicated to his priihcipals, and to an undertaking to
perform the engagements he had made for them.

It is urged, on thcpart of' the Appellees, thAt tliis
undertpking is not joint, but fetral, and binds each

party to the-extent of his interest, and no farthert
VOL. IJX

2t

SVEREME CVAM1T U. S.
cluim's
EXR's.

Tv.
VAr
AlmMS-

DYK.

The Court does not io *inderstaud the transactioit
The undertakinz not beiig express, its extent must bu
determin'd by the character of their acts of confirmation, arid by the character of the act confirmed.
The bill is to be charged, as expressed upon its face,
to John Innes Clark, and to Munro, Snow and Muiro.
In his letter of the 3d of November, 1806, addressed
to his owners, Benjamin' Munro, after mIntioning the
bills, says,* , which bills you" (that is, John trnes
lark and Mumo, Snow and. Munro) - will no doubt
prepare for timely."
In the account with his owners, rendered by Benjamin Munro, and dated tue '1st of Noember, 1806, he
chaxgea them jointly with the coffee purchased by these
.hUs, jointly with the premium advanced, and credits
th~m jointly with the amount of the bills. This ficcount
is afterwards referred to by John Innes Clark himself
as a settled account.
The Court cannot undrstand the undertaking, proved
by these papers and by the c,,nduct of the parties, to be
other than a joint undertaking of the owners to put
themselves in the place of Benjamin Munro, and to peo,vide funds to take up the bill.
it is ti d unanimoug opinion of the Court that the H.bility of the owners of the ship Patterson- for the bill
drawn by Bejamin Munro in favor of Rimsdvk is
precisely thi same as if it had been drawn by themselves.
They have made his act their act.
It is said that, eveg on this pri'nciple, the decree if
for too 16rge a sum, because the premium and the damages cannot be recovered in a Court of Chancery.
There is no evidence that the contract is not allowable hy the laws of 13'atavia; nor (lid the owners, when
infarmedlof it, complain bf its terms. This Court can
not presume that it is illegal.
The damages frm no part of the contract, and cer.
tainly cannot be decreed by a Court of Chancery, un-

FEBRUARY TERI 1815.
less, by the laws of the place where the bill was drawn,
they become a phrt of the debt. Upon this point., the
Court has no information; and for this reason the decree must be reversed.

CLArK'S

It is also the opinion of the Court that tle dismissal
of the bill of the Complainants as to James Munro and
Samuel Snow, the surviving partners of Moto, Sniow
and Munro, was irregular ;:- and that a decree ought
to have'been made against them also. For these causes
the decree must be in -part reversed, and th3 cause re
manded to the Circuit Court with directions to ,reform
the decree according to this opinion.

DYK.

Tie decree of this Court is asfollmws:
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record of the Circuit Court of the United StatO for
the district of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel; which being considered, the. Court is of opinion
that John Innes Clark in his life time, and Munro,
Snow and Munro, the owners of the ship. Patterson,
wvere jointly liable fi)r the bill of exclhange, in the Coinplainant's bill mentioned, to the same extent as if the
said bill had been drawh by them ; and that the estate
of the said John Innes Clark, in the hands of his executors, is, in equity. chargeable Vith the gaid debt, as far
as the said John Innes Clark in his life time was chargeable therewith. This Court is therefore. of opinion that
there isno error in so much of tfie said decree of the
Circuit Court for the district of Rhode. Island as directs
the respondents, the executors of the said John Innes
Clark, deceased, to pay to the Complainant the am.,unt
of the said bill with interest thereon, from the time when
the same became payable to the day on which the said
decree was made, and thd same' as to so much th,.reof
is affirmed. And this Court is further of opinion that
the'Defendants ought not to have been ordered to pay
damages on the'said bill without proof that, by the law
of the place where-fthe same. was dra%vn, damages were
made payable.: in wihich case the persons bound to pay
the said bill are liable in a Court of equity, as well as
in a Court of law. to piy such damages. This Court
SIt isprohable that the Cturt did not observe that the dimia-d of£the
bill as to Munro Snow and Mumo, as withe a=nt of the Compbj'.t

Exu's.
V.
VAN

SUPREME C0UJRT U. S.
is also of opinion ,thatso much of the said decree 4s dis,
misses the bill of the Complainants As to James Muni'o
and Samuel Snow, the surviving partners of Munro,
VAN
Snow and Munro, is irregular, and that 'a decreo ought
Rrzms- to have been made against them likewise. It is, thereDYK.
fore, the opinion of this Cotjrt that so much of the said
decree of the Circuit Court for the disfrict of Rhode Island, made in this case, as directs the Appellants to pay
to the Complainant, in that Court, damages at the rate
of ten per centuin on the amount thereof, with interest
thereon; and so much of the said decree as dismisses
the bill of the Complainant as to. James Monro and
Samuel Snow, the surviving partners of Munro, Snow
and Munro, is OrTonbous and ought to be reversed, and,
the same is reversed accordingly. Anti this Court doth
further order and decree that the said cauise le remanded to the said Circuit Court for the district of Rhode
Island with directions to receive proof of the law of
]Batavia respecting protested billsof efchange, to conform its decree to this opinion, and to make tho samlo
against the surviving partner or partners of the late
commercial hiouse of Munro, Snow and Munro as ivell
a against thet Appellans; all which is ordered and decreed accordingly.

CLARK'S

zxu's.
V.

*;FINLEY -v. WILLIAMS
F'eb.

AND OTHERS.

128th.

.bscnt....TODID, X
THIS was an appeal from "the decree of the Circut Court for the district of Kentucky, in a suit in
aosuitfor
Kentcky
UW;
will no
look buond chancery, brooght by Finley to compel Williams and

In Kentucky
Wh
eot

teate t,but others,
ty N11; ,d" land

who had the elder patent, to convey pertaiq

'to the Complainant which he claimed by virtue
e,._e-of a prior settlement.

.l
lidity to the
elder entry aOnst aelder The cause was argued by Pop-E, for the 4ppellants,
etween pre-and CLAY, for the Appelkes, on the 22d of February,
emption
i8i3, in the absence of the reporter.

