FEBRUARY TERB isis.
THE BRIG ALEBTA, AND CARGO,
(Brosquet, Claimant,)

69

181 .
51=h 10"b4

IV.

BLAS MORAN,

LIXBEW T.

Absent....ToDD, J.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the district The distit
the
"it'srnswtatr
Court for the district of New Orlean! (which has the Ustitd
(to-iuc.
jurisdiction also of a Circuit Couet.)
otl)hare ju-

The facts of the case were stated by WAS1INGTON, J.t'

,;to

in delivering the opinion of the Court, as follows:

02irnI
Spat0h owner, (*M
,ansity U'ith the
This is the case. of a libel filed in the district Court of utic st;m)
14ew Orleans, by Bias Moran, a subject of the king 0 fhis propt y

Spain, and'a native and resident of the island of Cuba. ,.crt
setting forth that he is the owner of the brig Alertaand h. -r
cargo consisting of 170 slaves, which, on a voyage from .,. i ith
the coast of Africa to the Havapna) was, sometime in the uitd s'met
of Ha- if the lc. bm.
1810, when within a few leagues
month of June,
..
-brugott
ttrra
vanna, captured en the high seas by the L'Epine, bearinti
French colors; that a prize master was put on Jioard the
Aderta, and 17 of the slaves taken out, after which the
prize was ordered to steer for the Balize, and was finally brought to th, port of New Orleans, with the ren.-inder of her cargo consisting of 153 slaves. The libel alleges that'the. L'Epine was not duly commissioned to
capture the property of Spanish subjects, or, if so commissioned, that she was armed and eq'ipped for war in
the port of New Orleans, and manned by sundry Amer!can citizens and inhabitants of the territory of New Orleans, contrary to the law of nations. The prayer of
the libel is for restitution and damages.
The claim of the prize master admits the capture of
the Alerta as lawful prize of war; and asserts that the
L'Epine, atthe time of the capture, was and still is legally authorized to capture all vessels and their cargoes
belonging to the subjects of Spain, as enemies of France.
He further states, that after the capture he was compelled to enter the port of New 0rleaus by stress of weath

SUPREME C.OURT U. S
TH1,

.3RXG

er, want of provisions, and the inability of thts Alerta td
keep the'sea, and pravs.to be dis jissed.

ALERTA

The evidence in the cause establishes the following
facts. That sometime in April, iSiO, this privateer
BIAS
commanded by captain Batigne, and bearing a commisonAOR
. sion from the French government, to make prizes on the
high seas, entered the port of New Orleans. The captain had with him a letter of instructions from his owncro
directing him to de.posit what money he riight take us
prize in the Bank -of New Orleans; to put into one of
the ports as being in distress, and, in case lie should hetr
of the capture of Guadoloupe, he was to renew his crew'
for the purpose of conveying lls prizes to France. Some'time in -the course of the succeeding month, Batigno presented two petitions to the collector of the port of New
Orleans, stating that the L'Epine had been bompelled by
stress of weather to put into that port, and that he had
necessarlily incurred expenses for refitting and -victualing the privateer, and for defending himself against a
criminad prosecution for piracy to an amount exceeding
$5o0, and praying for permission to enter and sell
such part'of his cargo, .as would enable him to discharge
that sum. He iso applied to the collector, about the
same time for permisfrion to purchase provisions for his
crew amounting to thirty persons, on his intended voyage to France, and intimated that lie should take witli
him abbut te'passengers, if pepmitted to do so ; but this
permission being refused, lie professed to relinquish hi
'intention of taking passengers on board.

& CARGO

Mv.

Having obtained permission to purchase provisionsi
and to dispose of a part of his cargo, it appears that lie
paid offihis crew, and sailed from New Orleans soon afterwards with a crew of from fifty to sixty men composed partly of persons obtained at New Orleans, and partly
of those who had entered that port with him. With this
force on board he went tb sea, and soon afterwards fell
in with the Alerta bound from- Africa to the Havanna,
which, together with her cargo consisting of 170 slavM.,
lie captured as prize of war, put a prize master on board,
amid ordred her To steer towards the Balize. On her
passage, the Alerta suffered very considerably in a gale ;
and her crew, together with the slaves on board, Wero
much distressed -for want of provisions, when she waso

FEBRUARY TERI

8g.

si

at ihe request of captain Batigne, visited and telieved by
captain Allen, and conducted safely to New Orleans,
where he libelled the vessel and cargo for salvage.

Tun
nG
ALERTA

& cAUGO

The Court below, upon the libel of the Spanish owner, decreed restitution to the libellant of the ship and

V.
EMAS

the 154 slaves left on board of her by the privateer, sub- mon&Ax.'
ject to all expenses for the support of the negroes, and -----

such salvage as should be decreed by the Qourt togeth r
with costs of suit, and such damages as the Court should
thereafter decree.
J.WooDwAEDfor the ._ppellant, contended

for the fol-

lowing points.
I. That the authority to capture is complete and the
capture in all respects legal and operative.
2. That it does not appear that the equipment of the
L'Epin was in violation of any law of the United States,
or in such manner as to affect the prize in question.
3. That there is erro' in the decree of the Coui- be:
iow in decreeing restoration to the libellant, Blas .Moran.
. . Thaf should it be the opinion of this Court that the
.Alertaand cargo are not. prize'of war, the restoratioli
should be subject to 'asalvage to the captors;

And submitted the case to the Court, upoh the following written argument.
In this case 'he Appellant will not cbntrover.t the j risdiction'of the Court to enquiie as to the commissiod
or authoiity under which the priva.eer atted, but will
content himselfith shewiug that foi all the purposes ok
this case the comnlmission is regular.
There are no appearances which justify a presulnption of fraud on the face of the conunission. The Court
will inspect it.
The' district Cotirt agrees that if the case stood on
this point alone it would be left to the foreign tribunals
The official siguares are proven. The commission buo
VOL.I.
,1

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TlP,

BREG
ALERTA

&CARGO

ihg thus established,,bis Court will not go into a question of regularity which may or may not be material according to the local usage in the French ports as to issu.
Ing or using those commissions.

-V.

BLAS
xoRA.Z.

It appears by the captain's petition to the collector,
which is sworn to, that he, the captain of the L'Epine,
was tried at New Orleans on this transaction as a pirtes
and I think the presumption must be that he was acquitted. The Validity of his -commission must have been
passed upon, on this trial, for if he acted without coinmission lie was a pirate. He cannot be looked upon as
a pirate, because he has acted openly under the authority of at least a regularly execlted commissions and in full
communion with the consul of his owvn nation at New
Orleans. If not a pirate lie was a legal captor as far as
respects the commission. But it is said that the equipmient of the L'Epine, by force of which she made the capture, in question was contrary to the laws of tht Unitted
States, and that therefore our Courts have a right to restore the prize. The inference of law may be true, but
the fact is not established. Indeed it might not be indecorous to suppose, from a comparison of the testimony
with the result in'the Court below, that by possibility
clamor or prejudice, which too often insensibly intervene
in such cases. had not been without their effect. The
acting consul at New Orleans.sweats that the additional
number of men went on board as passengers, that no
money was paid to them and that if fhey were to have
formed an augmentation of the crew lie must have co-operated. The circumstances corroborate this fact, they
were for.-igners : they were emigrants. It does miot appear in any instance that a pet-son was taken on board
as an addition to the crew. There might have been a
difference between the number reported and ,the numbor
on board, hut it is also true that there were some secretnd on board unknown to the captain until he got to sea.
This is not an mnusual case with respect to such vessels.
But the terstimony shtws the conduct of the captain to
]a.ve bcen honorable on this point. If after leaving thejurisdiction of the UniteR States any of thoseFrenchmen had
entered into the service as foreigners, this is a crime per.
sonal to themselves and which cannot affect the privateer
or herprize, unlessby the captain's originalprocurement,
ic4ricaucitizens. Would the evi.
he knowingthereto be

FEBRUARY TERK iSiM.
dence, which the Court will of course read, be sufficient TjH&
to establish the penalties under the act of congress 2 If BUIG
not, it will not be sufficient to establish the forfeiture of ALLEUTA
vessel and catgo as against the captors whose possession &cAIuGo
I consider firm under the capture. The whole conduct
vo
of the captain has been in open day antiunder the ex- BLAS
press view of the collector. It must be presumed fair. wou".
But it is said that the last entrance into the port of
NWew Orleans was pot in good faith. It is said that by
the letter of instructions, &c. the L'Epiue had an original intent to go into New Orleans to deposit cash in the
banks there. This intent was cont-ngent and remote
and.it does not appear. that the contingency of getting
cash had happened. But the original intent is iinmate.
rial, provided the distress were the true and irnnediate
cause. I need not refer the Court to eutltoritirs under
the navigation laws of England to decide this poisii, but
if desired they can be produced. This intent might have
been effected without a violation or our iaws, as the money might have been sent in without the vessel. But
this charge of original intent is contradicted by tMe fact,
as the L'Epine passed frequently with a fair wind when sh6
might have entered, and did not, but kept at broad capturing distance, so miles from the Balize altliugh there were
no enemy ships to prevent her entering the port
If the Court should be df opinion, contrary to the crude
reasoning now submitted, that the Alertaand cargo ought
of right to be restored, then it appears to me that the
captors are entitled to salvage, and not Mr. Allen, the
pilot, as a co.nditioU pr(cedent to the restoration.

The

deposition of Allen himself will shew that when he, for the
firsttime, boardedthe Alerta, she was within a day of Barrataria, had weathered the storm of the 26th, was riding
in a calm sea at anchor, 12 feet water, and' the crew
amusing themselves in catching sea birds, and supplying
themselves by salting them, of which they had sewera.
barrels. She had plenty of provisions at that time to
carry her to Barrataria, and Allen states that she could
have gotten there, but had a storm happened he should
not have liked to have risked himself in her. But as to
the L'Epine she overtook the Aler~ta in actual distress
after she had been recently cast on shore and greatly injuredg with buthalf a barrel of bread, half a barrel of porki

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

for 150 slavei: and 12 other persons, and indeed ile

MUTO

L'Epine, was visited by Mr. Martinez from the Alerta
ALFRTA . n account of this distress. The testimony shews that
& CARGO she cauld not ha,,e reached a harbor butfirthe aid from
10.
the L'Epine. Then 'unless tho act of brnin in the
EL&S
Aierta were piratical, the L'Epine acted as humanely
MIORAN.
and as beneficialy to the owners in bringing in the Aler-

ta as in any other case of salvage.
There was no argument on the part pf the Appellee.
.1farch 10. .. bsent....ToDD, .
WASHINGTON,

. delivered the opinion of the Court

as foilows:
The only question for the consideration of this Court
is, whether tVhc Court below bad jurisdiction of this cause
for the purpose. f restoring "the property to the Libellant ? Th6 jurisdiction is asserted upon two grounds.
1. That the force of the privateer, by means whereof
this capture was made, had been increased at New Orleans, contrary to tile laws and in violation of the neutrality of the United States.
2. That the commission of this privateer had expired
before the capture was made.
As this Court is satisfied witi the Sentence of the
Court below upon the first ground of jurisdiction, the
opinion will be confined to that point. Tile general
rule is undeniable, that the trial of captures made on the
high seas,jure belli, by a duly commissioned vessel of
-war, whether from an enemy or a neutral, belongs exclusively to the Courts of that nation to which the captor
belongs. To thiq rule there are exceptions which are
as firmly established as the rule itself. If the capture be
made within the territorial limits of a n6utral country
into wlhich the prize is brought, or by a privateer which
had been ill'gahly equipped in such neutral country, the
prize Courts of such neutral country not only possess
lie power, but it is their duty to restore the property s
illegally captured to the owner. This is necessary to
the vindication of their own neutrality.

FEBRUARY TERM i85.

. A reutral nation may, if so disposed, without a breach
of her .eutralcharacter, grant permission to both belligerents to equip their vessels of war within her territory. But without such permission the subjects of such
belligerent powers have no right to equip vessels of war,
or to increase or augment their force, either with arms
or with men, within the territory of such neutral nation.
Such unauthorized acts violate her sovereignty and her
rights as a neutral. All captures made by means of
such equipments are illegal in relation to such nation,
and it is comdpetent to her Courts to punish the offenders,
and, in case the prizes taken by her are brought infra
prcwidia to order them to be restored.
These principles are believed to be fully warranted by
the general law ofnations, by the decisions of the Courts
of this country, and by the laws of the 'United States.
By the act of June, i79-1, the enlisting, within the territory of the U. States, persons to serve as soldiers and marines on board of any vessel of war or privateer in the service of any foreign state, with the exception of the subjects
of such foreign state transiently within the United States;
the fitting~out and arming any vessel in the service of
a foreign lkince or state at war with any other nation
which is at peace with the United States; anl tie increasing or.augmenting the force of any armed vessel of.
war in such foreign service, by adding to the number of
heri guns, and thelike; are declared to be offences against
the United States, and are punishable by fine and imprisonment; and the 7th section of the law provides for
the detention of all such vessels as have been so fitted
out, or as have so increased or augmented their force,
together with such prizes as they may have made, in
order to the execution of the prohibitions and penalties
p'rescribedby that act, and to the restoring of such prizes
in cases where restoration shall have been adjhdged. "
Thus, if there were any doubt as to the rule of tho
law of nations upon this subject, the illegality of equipping a foreign vessel of war within the territory of the
United States, is declared by the above law; and tho
power and duty. of the proper Courts of the United
States, to restore thn prizes rnade in violation of that law,
is clearly recognized.

TE,
BaxG
ALELT.%.
& CAUGO

-V.
i3LAs

moRn".

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TEr
3r3IG

AiERTA

& CARGO
v.
BLAS
MORfAN'.

But it is insisted fr the claimant in this case, that tis
persons taken on board at New Orleans by the captain
of the privateer, formed no part of the crew at the-tilno
the privateer left that port, but that they were received
merely as passengers; that they were emigrants 1'rom
other nations, and not citizens of the United Statc ; and
that their subsequent changeof character fron passongers
to crew. cannot attach any crime to the captain of the
privateer under the laws of the United States, or affect
his right to the prizes which he might afterwards make
on the high seas.
This argument is unsupported by the facts proved in
the cause. It appears that capt. Batigne proposed, in
the first instance to the collector of the port of New Orleans, to take on board ten passengers for France, provided ie should be permitted to do so, and that lie afterwards stated to the collector that as there was some difficulty in obtaining such permission he. should decline taking them. But what places this subject bbyond all
dbubt is, that it appears from some of the ship's papers
of the privateer that advances were made to these alleged passengers with a deduction of S per cent. for the inai
rine invalids agreeably to the 6rdinances of France, and
the role d' equipage contains the number of prize shares
.opposite to their names. These facts, being nuoxplain.
ed by any testimon3F in the cause which deserves to be
respected, leave no doubt that the persons taken on
board at New Olehns were engaged originally as an
addition to the crew of the privateer. Some of the persons so enlisted arc proredto be native citizens; others
were residents domiciled in New Orleans, some with and
others without families ; and others again were sla es
belonging to the citizens of thatplace, who ap)l)ear.to liave
been seduced front the dervice of their masters. It id
quite immaterial whether the persons so enlisted wore
native American citizens or foreigners domiciled within the United States ; since neither the law of, nations nor the act of congress recognizes any distinction
except in respect to subjects of the statein whose service
they are so enlisted, transiently within the United States
and it may well be doubted whether this exception in the
act of congress wa4 not virtually repealed by the nonintercour~e law. lint it appears that some of these per-

FEBRUARY TER31 Iis.
sons were emigrants from Cuba, and were, at that time;
residing and domiciled in New Orleans.

BnM
A.ERTA
It is next contended on behalf of the Claimant, that, in & CGo
V.
case the Court should affirm the decree directing restitution, it ought to be done upon the condition of the Li- B.AS
beliant paying salvage, not to the captain of the gun- -ioUA.
boat who furnished the Alerta with provisions -and conducted her to New Orleans, but to the privateer.
This claim is entirely inadmissible. Salvage is allowed as a reward for the meritorious conduct of the salvor,
and in consideration of a benefit conferred on the person whose property he has saved. What are the pretensions of captain Batigne to the reward he claims?
He fits out his vessel at New Orleans in contravention
of the law of nations vnd of the United States; and finding on the high seas a vessel and cargo,.belonging to the
subjects of anation at peace with the -UnitedStates, within a short distance of the Havanna, her port Gf ddstination, he employs the force thus-illegally taken on board
to make prize of both vessel and cargo, and taking her
out of her course, he conducts her towards the Balize',
near td which she is fou rid by captain Allen in distress
in consequence of a severe gale, to which she had been exposed, and of the want of provisions. Her wants bei:ig
relieved by that officer, 'he conducted her in safety to
New Orleans. Nothing could hq more remote froi the
intentibns of the captain of the pri%ateer than to render
a service to this ship and her cargo.. So far fron it, lie
committed an unwarrantable spoliation of the cargo by
selling fourteen of the slaves, part thereof, to an American whom he met at sea; and he most certainly int nled
,0 have smuggled the residue of the slaves into Grand
TArre or some other part of the coast, -and there to have
disposed of them. It would ill become any'Court of
justice, and much less an American Court, to bestow a
reward on a person who had' thus violated the lawf of
the .United.States in one instance, and meditated a violatior- of them ki,-Anotber - and it would be still worse to
give such reward atthe expense of the ipjured Sjaniard.
Upon the whole, it is the opiiion of this Court that
4he sentence app aled from ought t6 be affirmed 'ith
costs.

