SUPREME COURT U. S.
BRio

belling ier, is the iiatural consequence et havilig bccn

SnORT able to find no circumstances of suspicion which might
STAPLE, tempt the captors to proceed against her. It undoubt-

,.

edly proves, what the captain of the lno avows, that he

U.STATES. acted under a full conviction of being exposed to no

risk by the capture, though lie should reap no advantage from it.
The interest which coastin. vessels had in fictitious
or concerted captures, undpubtedly subjects all captures
to a rigid scrutiny, and exposes them to much suspicion. 'heo case of the Claimant ought to be completely
rade
out. No exculpatory testimony, the evistence of
which ik to be supposed from the nature of the transaction, ought to be omitted. The absoince of such testimony, if not fully accounted for, would mako an imprcssion extremely unfavorahl6 to the claim. But where
the testimony is full, complete- and concurrent; where
every circumstance is explained and accounted for ina
reasonable manfier; where the testimony to the i~noceuce of the owners and crew of the vessel is positive,
proceeding from every perqon who can be supposed to
have'any knowledge of the facts, and contradicted by
none ; the Court cannot pronounce against it. This
would be to allow to suspicious circumstances -acontroling influence'to which they are not entitled.
The sentence of the Circuit Court, condemning the
Short Staple, is reversed and annulled, and the cause
remanded to that Court with directions to decree, a
restoration of the vessel to the Claimants; and to dismiss the libel.
SToRY, J stated tlat lie dissented from the opinion
of the Court aid 'adlhered to the opinipn which .he gavo
in the Court below, in which he had the concurrence of
one his of bretheren.

iSis.
Feb.

11th.

PARKER

.

RULE'S LEssF.,,

--

Jbsent...JomqsoN, .'and TODD, J4
Under the act
ERROR. to the Circuit'Court'or the district of
of
con collcrt
toWest
e Tennesseep
e
a
of ejectment,
an aqtion otss
!AJayand

FEBRUARY TERM ii5.

The facts of the case were thus stated by' the chief r uumu
justice in delivering the opinion of the Court:
V.
This was an ejectment brought by the Defendant in IEssEE.
error m tle Circuit Court or the United States for tile- __district of West Tennessee. The Nlaintiff"below claim- a direet tUX,
ed under a patent regolarly issued by the proper .au-(Jv14 1768)
thority. The Defendant made title under a deed, from Icttr catdz
j
the collector of the district, reciting a sale of the said ' 1 hiSang
land as being forfeited by the num pa ment of taxes,*.ppnetr fe
and conveying the same to the-purchast.r. On the va. ,.im,-ir
eit
lidity of tins conveyance tht wh .1 case d- pt'nds. At of t, tax, it
the trial the Defendant produced his devd, and also a tiitlieuld
general list of lands oned, possessed a,,d ot cupied on owy ;" til
the first day of October, 1793, in ass.essawnt district
dV~t
I.w,
No. 1:2, in the state of Tennessee, corre sponding witl kc awl n
the collection district No. 8, returned to the office. of tw
i "
the late supervisor -of the revenue ror the district of lt or ti
e
Tennessee by Edward Doglass, surveyqr
of the. reve- t'
b
noiication te
to
hue for said assessment aistrict, among which is the fol- pav, forCo
cr
ill Ofthe
lowing. 66 Grant John, reputed owii; r iii Sumner cou.i- dAS
l~ZMAIL+
"ty on the middle fork of Bledsoe's Crrek, 6410 acres ,U'W, if ITIre
"of land subject to and included in the valuafiut., valu- -e zzlzr.,
" ed at 9 2,560, no possessor, or nccbpant" Hie dso
produced the tax list furnished by said surveyor to
'"homas Martin, collector of the collection district No.
8, inwhich list gaid land is described in th same manner as in the. said gduneral list, excepting that, tle said
John Grant is described as pmssessor or occupxnt of
said 60 acres of land, and said land is included in th6
list of lands belonging to residents. He also produced
the. advertisements of the sale of the said lands, mentioned in the said deed to have ,een made in tile Tennessee Gazette, in which said John Grant is mentioned
only as reputed owner of said land, and proved, by a
witness present at the salt, that the said Henry Bradford, for himself and Daniel Smith, became tile purchaser of the saiid land ; and that thesaid Daniel and
Henry, before the execution of the said last mentioned
deed, assigned their interest in the. said land to the Defendant, Richard Parker. But it did not appe.or that
the said collector had, at any time, caused a copy of
the said list, with a .tatcment of the amount of the tax,
and a notification to pay the same) to be lpblished for
sixty days in fotur gazettes of-the state, if thero were so
VOL. IX.
9

66

SUPREME COURT U. S.

PARKER many. Iptrsuant iothe last clause of the ii0h sectioj of

v.
the act of congress. entitled ",An act to lay and collect
"tr; * " a direct tax within the United States," vol. i, p. 212.
LIESS.E. And thereupon the judge instructcd the jury that the
aid sale made by said collector was unauthorized and
void, because the said collector had not previously made
sai l last mentioned publication, and because it appearcd that the collector proceeded to collect the taxes due
on the said land in the manner prescribed by law for
collecting taxes due upon lands where the owner resides thereon, and not in the manner prescribed when
the owneri are non-residents and because there is a variance between the surveyor's books and the collector's
list. The Defendahit below excepted to this opinion of
the judge, and a verdict and judgment being rendered
against him, he has brought the same by writ of error
into this Court.
-

JoN.s, for the Plain4ifin error.
There is only one question in this cause, viz : whe.
flier the collector, in making sale Of the land under the
13th section of the 'act, (vol. 4. p. 213) was bound to
publish for 60 (lays in I gfazettes of the state, the copies of the lists of the lands taxable, &c. with a statement of the amount of the taxes due thereon, and a notification to pay the same in 30 days, as required by
the 11th section of the same act.
We contend that thjis clause of tixe section applies
only to itnoccupied lands of irnkizown "proprietors, and
not merely to lands of nton-residents., Grant, although
a non-resident, was a known proprietor.
Such publication is only necessary in case of distress
anil sale of goods and chattels, which is th. only remedy given by the lith section. If the collector intended
to lery the distress, then it was incumbent on hint 'to
make the publication. But when tie legisl'ature, by the
13th section, giv the reniedj by sale of the land itself,
they make a different provision and require difflrehb
notice of the sale. and do not refer to the provisions
of the 11th section ; all of which proi isions relate only
to the case of distress.

FEBRUARY TEI

I815.

C. LEE, contra.

AinLn

The deed from the collector must always recite all
It%'s
the facts necessary to make the title good. In this re- xESSEE.
spect the deed is very defective.
The land appears to have belonged to a non-resident.
Xf his residence was known, the law rcquired that he
should have personal notice: if not knownk,, he must
have presumptive notice by publication as the i1th section requires. It cannot be supposed that the law would
require less notice to authorize a sale of the laiul, than
a distress and sale of chattels. It cannot he siupposeul
that the legislature meant to comprise all the pre-requisita-s of a sale of the land in the 13th section; for that
section applies as well to residents -s to non-residents,
and yet it requires no notice -of the amount of th6 taxes
nor ;.demand of payment before sale. It is rather to
be presumed that the legislature meant that all the preceding requisites should be complied with.
SoNEs,

in reply.

It is not necessary that the deed should recite any oi
the facts preceding the sale. They may all be proved
r
by parol.
Fkruary 18th. Absc.... oHsoN, J. and TODD, J.
MAIrSuALT, Ch. J atLer stating the facts of the case.
delivered the opinion of the Court hs follows %

It is admitted that if the preliminary requisites (if the
law have not been complied with, the collector could
have no authority to sell, and the conveyance can ])as
no title. On the part of thePlaintif in error it is insisted that these requisites have b,'en performed, and that
the instruction given by the Judge is rroneuus. The
instruction is that the sale was unaithurized and void,

-

It was proved in the cause that the proprietors of the
land in controversy were non-residents of the state of
Teftnessee when the tax was ass'ssed, and coutinued to
be so to the time. of bringing the -action, and that they
had no knowun agents in -hat state,

68

"AIRMU
-p.
RULE'S

SUPREME COURJT U. S.
The mode, of proceeding with respect to non-resident.f

is prescribed in the iith qnd 13th sections of the act imposifig the direct tax.

LESSEE.

The bject of the provisions of the 11th section is
9lands. dwelling houses and slaves which shall not be
",owhed by or in the occupation or under the care or
S, superintendance of some person within the collection
" districtwhiPere the same shall be situated or found at
" the time of the assessment aforesaid."
It is alleged'that the. Plaintiff below did not entitle
himself to the provisions- of this section by bringing
bimself within its description. He was a non.resdent
ani bad no known agent, but has not shown that there
was no occupant of the land.
_The testimony offered by both Plaintiff and Defendant is spread upon the record; and although the Plaintiff has not shown that there was no occupant, yet that
fact came outin the testimony of the )efendant before
the opinion of the Court was given. One of the tax
li4sts pro luced by him stat6o the land to be without an
occupant; and the other which states John Grant to be
the. occupant, is sofar.disproved, because the case admitq Sohn Grant to have been, at the time, an inhabitant of Kentucky without any agent in the state of Tennessee.
The requisites of the 13th section of the act, which
pre.scribes the course to be pursuW4 where lands are to
be sold because the ttxes are in arrear and unpaid for
twelve mbnths, have been observed. "The reqoisites of
the 11th section, which prescribes the duty of the, Iollector after the assessment of the tax before lie cai proceed to distrain for it, have not been observed. The
cause depends on this'single point-was it the duty of
the collecto, previous to selling the lands of a non-residen, in the 7panner prescribed by the 13t1 section of
the act to make the publications prescribed in the 11th
section ?
This will require a consiaeration df the spirit and
intent of the law.

FEBRUARY TERM 180i.
The 9th section makes it the duty of the collector to rA=L=
advertise that tie tax has becime due and payable, and
V.
the times and place. at which lie will attend for itS col- uuLr.*s
lertion. It is th!,n his duty to apply once at the respec- LESSEE.
tive dwellings nf those wiho have failed to attend such
plac.s, and there demand the taxes respectively duo
from them. ir the taxes shall not. be then paid, or within twenty days thereafter, t is lawful fol- the collector
to proceed to colh'ct the same by distress and sale.
The 1ith section prescribes the duty of the coliector
with respect to lnds, &c. not owned, &c. by some person within the colb::ction district wherein the same shall
be situated.
Upon receiving lists of such lands, &c lie is to transmit certified copies thereof to the surv! yors of the revenue of tire assessment districts, respectively, within
which such persons respectively reside, whose, duty it
is to give personal notice of the claimi to those who are
liable f:,r it. If the tax shall not be paid within a specified time after this notice, it then brcumes the duty of
the collector to collect the same by distress.
If lie residence of the owner of sueh land be unkndwn,
this sectimn-requires certain publications to be nitle .as
a substitute for personal notice; after which it is the
duty of the collector to proceed to colkeot the tax by
distress in like manner as where apersonal demand has
been made.
Th. 13th section prescribes the duty of the colibctor.
and the forms to be obseeved in the sale of land the
taxes on which remain. unpaid for one year. This section contains nb reference 'o those which preceded it,
but marks oi-t the course of the collector in the.speciflc
case. It is therefore contended, and the argunent h-wgreat weight, -that if the requisites of this section be
complied with. the sale is valid. This opinion is in
conformity with the k ter of the section ; and it is conceded tha' the. intent must be very clear which will justify a conn,.xion of that section with those which procede it, so aq to ingraf. upon it those acts which must
be perforned by the collector beforg lie ran distrain for
taxes. But in this case, wlien we take the whole sta

70

SUPREME COURT. U S.

title together, such intent is belieVed to be sulficently
-0.
;-' LE'S appaj ont

rARKEi

z.Pssa.,

T'her6 is, throughout the act, an obvious anxi,,ty in
the legislatur46 to avoiM coerciye mean4 of collection, tnless such means should be necessary ; and to gve every
owner of lands the most full inibrmation of the sum or
which he was liable, and to affoid him the most easy
opportunity to pay it. Thus the accruing of fhe tax is
to be advertised, and the times and places at which the
colleto' will attend to receive it. A personal demand
at the dweiling houses of those who have neglected to
attend to this notice must then be made, a, reasonable
time before tihe collector can collect the tax by diste'ess.
Where lands are own'ed by non-residents whosi places
of residence ar: known, this personal notire is still required ; and where their residence is unknuwn, certain
ptiMieations are, substittited"for and deemed, equivalent
-to personal notice amid demand., in each case, it is
.Made the duty of the collector to 1proced to collect the
tax by distress and sale.
From this view of the law it is inferred, not only flint
the legislature was anxious to avoid coerciye means of
co!lection, but has also manifested a solicitude to colli-ct
the tax by distrss and sale of personal property rather
than by a sale of the land. its'l. That all the means of
cohlettion prescribed in the act must have beentied,
and inst have failed before a sale -of the land can ble
atnade. The duty of 'the'collector to make a pi rsonal
demqnd froin the resident owner of lands, and to make
those pobliciations which the law substitutes for a personal demand where the residence of the oswner is

n-

known, does not deipend on the Iact that ppi-sonial pro.
pertiv, is or is not on the land Frain which Ifie tax miy
be hytied by distress. Itis his duty to proceed in the
manner prescribed in the 9th and 11th sections, in every
case. After having so proceeded; it N his pesitive duty
to levy the tax by distress, if pr,spert. liable to distress
canbe found. If, notwithstanding the proceedings directed in the 9th and I Ifli s:,ctions; the tax shall renmtsir
one year unpaid, it is to be raised by a sale of the lomd,
It appears to the Court that the 1.3th section pre-. upposdseverv thing vjointd in the 9th and tth sections
to have been porfornxtd, and that the validity of tho

FEBRUARY TERM 1816
sale of land owvned by a non-resident, made by the col- rA~nirz
let.tor for the nrn-payment of taxes must depend not
V.
only on his having made the publications required in ntULE's
the 13th section, but on his having made those also i.ussrr.
which are required in the lith section. Those publications not having been made in this case, it is the opinion of the majorit) of this Court that tue sale is void,
and that the judge of the District Court committed no
error in givin. this instruction to the jury. The judgment is affirmed with costs.

1805.

BRIG STRUGGLE
(Thomas LeighT, Claimant..)

THE UNITED STATES.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court for A
who
Ofersan
ey
the.district of Massachusetts,
• . which
- . condemned the brig•at%for",'"I
Shuggle, fiur violation of the ron-iutereourse act of 281h tit pe
of June. 1809, -col. 10, p. 13, by going, with a cargo, to i.'ta,,
ilust
nae out tile
a prohibited port.
KsM r nn.
1Peoruary t8th.

.qbsent....JonsoN,

. and ToDD, .

der h ch hm
vS W'Fjlv't
f rlto as to
Icare no tm.

doubt
LIvING TON, J. delivered the opinion of the Court as t,.
Cf 11b e
into.CC.
follows:
..

...

Ciretimmnc"
! wrdm

This was an information, in the District Court of".,P, ~assachus,.tts, agaist the brigantine Struggle fir the tireteiiimsn
violation of the act of Congress of tle 28th of .Tune, 1809,
in departing from Portsmouth, in the United States. vith
a cargo of domestic growth and manufacture, bound to
a foreign port with which commercial intercourse was

not then permitted.
The lihel further states that lhie vessel arrived at said
prohibited port, with her cargo, and that no bond had at
any time been giveu to the United States, in the manner
required by law., that she should not proeed to any'in.

