SUPREME COURT U. S.
n3t he.arrested, because f6t cattle were neither.
should
provisions
no" munitions uf war within the meaiiing of
the act of'congress, entirled it an act to prohibit Ameri-can vessels from pm.ceeding t or .trading 'with the enemios .bf tile United States, and for oteze purposes" or
any other act of congress.

u. STxT.s
.V.

ToB L.
31ARB.n.

By the second sectionof the act referred to, which was
approved on the StM of July, f8i2, vol. i, p. o00, it is
enacted, " that if any citizen of the United States, Or
person inhabiting the same, shall transport or attempt
to transport, over.land,.or otherwise," "tnaval or military stores, arms, or thle munitions of war, or any article
of provision, from any plaue of t e United States,. to,any
place inUpper or Lower Canada, Nova Scitia or New
Brunswick," c the -person or persons aiding or privy to
the same shall" "t be 'considered, as guilty of a inisdomeanor, aod b; liable to be fined in a sum not exceedilg
five hundred dollars, -and imprisoned for a term, not exceeding six months, in the discretion of the Court."
Ofarcl 7th. Absent....Tonui .
This Cou'rtordcreditto be'ceitified tothe Circuit Court,
that it is the'opinion of this Codrt that fat cattle. are
provisions, or munitions of war, within the trme Intent
and meaning of th act, entitled " an act to prohibit
69 American vessels from proeeding to or trading with
4 the enemies of the United States, and for other puri poses."

THE SCHOONER ADELINE. AND CARGO.

IS.
Tdrch

3&

-

Abstnt..'..TODD, J
AAereianpro

.

THIS was an appeal 'from the sentence of the Cir-

Xerty er. ,cuit Court for the dibtrict of New Yorkfuteitmay be

American letter,of
Paymt
o marque, s~hooner AjirL.x z,
restoredof",
The
~y et.Onijan Tlhe
-ava-,
ai- sailed from Bourdeaur for the 'United States with a carthough the

!-go, owned inpart by citizens-of the.United States, and

FEBRUARY TERMI11&

"24:5

TRz
%tpart by French subjects. On the I4th of March.
iorxu
§pH
Bria
by
Biscay,
of
bay
the
in
captured.
was
'he
181,a,
tish squadron. who put a p-ize cre on board and or- ADELIr~h.
six dayi. in the
After
Gibraltar.
hpr for
&-red
possession
of the
Briiish she
wasbeing
re-captured, ner- Gi- la pi-ys car
,l
bralter, by the American privateer Expedition, who put i
a crew on board an-. ordered her 'or the United States -, u-I does
. ge
where she arriv'ed and was libelled, with her cargo b ,.
u ine,!',et
the re-captors, in the district 'Court atew York, asprize ht"I*uj"
et
5 k
of war.' The vessel was claimed by citizens of the Uni:
a.
A
Lt
cargUo.
her
of
part
also
was
as
therein,
ted States residing
to
that the
- tlit !roult
•
att
b French p
claid
was
cargo
the
of
part
Another
subjects residenf in the United States. Another part time of dpby Frenrh subjects, resident in' Frtnce. Another part , t .im
did
by citizens of the United States, resident in France. frcaptume,
.. nr
Another part by French'subjects vhose residence was h u
not stated, and another part by'citizens of the Unitrd ,,t,bJd Eo
irtV'
Ibut
•
CM.ant,
°
the anl
. stated,'
, not
.
and another
States, wil: ge residence ivas
thi_
in
lusty
nation,
what
of
statin.
without
friends'
part by s a/ien
or where resident. Some of the claims stated the pro- rmpect is ,ot
dae pry, at the time of capture to belon- to the prsons "
therein mentioned, and did not state te whora it belonged itby naent
inutsutfdint,
irthe pintiat the time of shipment.

11-dto %rthll

ithma
the coritry,
The. district Court condemned, as Food prize, all theo, and
dir,=ebe
resi
persons
other
and
Prenchnw
by
property owned
dent in France, and all the property of those persons tane from the
But if
whose res-dence was not st l; and restored all the Cot.
tes aio~aitss,
propeyrty belonging to persons resident in the United iabl to inch
States, upon payment of one sxtt. -fir salvage. The objec'.m 'v
vessel was restored, by consgnt of parties, on payment paies a
of oe half for salvage. The sentence was affirmed pro TImU
the, theoebe.
fornu, by consent, in the Circuit Court.
L

rill not

tIa
The. re-captors appaled as to the rate of salvage,
.ac
which theyycontendd ought to have, been one hl!f, and By tie
of
a
the
,
also
I8
condemned,
was
312MI1l,
tliose Claimants, whose property
Oe 6t Inrt
appealed.

only . ahioi-

The case was submitted to .the Court by . WoonWARD, and EMMF.T. for the re-captors, and by IRVjiNG,
and D. B. OGDEN. for tIh CGaimait-o, upon their written
notes for argument.

e o a prim.
%a upa tile
of
'-,u
the aon

SiJPREME COURT U. S.
3. WooxwAniw, for the re-captors, made the following
5CHOOFR
ADLXINE.

points:

board apyivate
grthe United

time of capture, instead of the time of shipment, are insufficient and invalid.

arrv-1 v.e.ssel

States, al-

hof.gh
oow
wed
li b allo
for the recaptare of the
vessel.

The property
l.per

"do-

France, (
ther they be
Americans,
Frenclnen or

1. That such claims as date the property from the

-.That the re-captors are entitled to the whole of the
Frcnch property, by the rule of reciprocity.
3. That the captors are entitled to a rate of salvage
of one half tupon the American property, or such other
and higher rate than the rate decreed in the Courts be-

low, as this Court may adjudge.

That the re-captors are entitled, by the same rule
is 4,.
lking 24 ricans as vere at the time of capture domiciled in France,

foreigners)

of reciprocity, to the whole, of the property of such Ame.
good
prize, if
re-captUted
rx-tter

hoirs in p--

or reisident there for coummercial purposes.

session oftthe

enemy,

.Thatthe re-captors ar. likewise entitl'd to all pro5.tla ter-apost
in the perty the national character of which is not defined by
b

that

being the rule

adopted

French tribu-

. the
nals.
Further proof

a

evidence.

willbe alovbd

6. That the property, of those Frenchmen who are
described as having a mere temporary residence in the
tional harac- United States, cann6t be considered as American.
ter
and prowIthis ao1rt,
whiere the na-

prietary inter.

eSt (of goods

That the property of persons described, as alien

'receaptueed do,

. friends, without meirtioning to what nation they belong
-ct
niot ,ii
lcp-ae v un- or where they reside, muts' also be taken to be French,
r-rnpeil
elah~nedill or decreed to the captors for uncertainty.
be decreed as

good ptize.

8. That the persons described in the claims as citi.
zens.of the United States, without stating their residence
at the time of shipment, or at any other time, must, under the circumstances of the case, be considere? as residing in France.
Th6re are claims which date the property from the
time of capture. This we say is insufficient. The
claims should state the property from the time of ship2ment at least. This -necessary to prevent transfer in
cralsitu, and to give effect to, and preserve the simplici.
ty and dispatch of the preparatorioinvestigation,

FEBRUARY TERM ist .

21.7

T1I
An important questin in this case is, what is to become of the American part of the cargo of an armed scnooNt
American vessel, re-captured by an American private ADnLUMr.
armed vessel.?

The re-captorsin the first place contend that the part
of the cargo above menttoned is casLs oinissus as to the
act of congress of thq 3d of .March, 1800.
If the Court should decide that there Is a casus omissus then the fate of this part of the cargo will depend upon the common law.
The re-captors contend that the common law is that
if property so situated has remained twenty-four lhotoin possession of the enemy of the captured party, they
are entitled to the whole of the property as prize of war.
To this they cite Grotius de jure beUi ac jacis, lib. 3,ek.
16. Vatt . boo" ', chi. IS, §* 196. This right upon recapture is here clearly laid down to privateers to be. divested only bythe laws of each state and treaties. Our
treaty with France is silent except as to restoration on
capture by pirates ; this being ex deticto there is no
change of property by the original capture. Se6 -.
dso
professor Marten's summary of the law of natio:ns, book
VI1, ch. 3, § 10. - In ord:.r to encouragpe privateering
6s those concerned in it are allowed to hold all the mer"c chant vessels and merchandize they take from the
"enemy or his subjects without any reserve whatsoever
,with respect to the redemption of them by the pro.
*"prietor."
The ouly remaining question on this point would. be
w,hat kind of possession consummates the right- of the
privateer. Twenty-four hours possession has ben coisidered ,,firm" possession. and sufficient to consnminate
this right by an almost common usage, and relognized
by almost all the treaties of maritime powers. i Rab.
151, .Amer. ed. 2 Azuni, 306, 308, 312, in a note 275,
2765 and 282.
. If the above considerations are inapplicable and the
salvage of this part of the car.go is gverned by the acts
of congress, then by thBe acts, thn, re-captors are enti
tled to onIhalf

SUPREME COURT U. S
The unqualified right of the privateer to the propeft:'
THF5
sceoo NR captureid, or re-captured, is, after firm possession,.clear
ADELINE.. at cOmnm6'law, and the doctrine of taking away that
right by salvage is derogatory to, that law. If this b6
so, the act of congress is derogatory to the common law,
and must be lioeratly construed infa;orof privateers.
The reward has always been out of the whole suliject
matter; the cargo as well as vessel and armament; and
it is with confidence contended that a separation. of the
ca;go so as to subject it to one sixth salvage, while the
vessel 'and armanent rffords one half, is, ifit exist at all,
anomalous to the act of the- 3d of March, 18Q0, and at
war with the usage and treaties of all mariime states.
The reas6n of encreasing the salvage, upon an armed
vessel is the merit of bUtte, and it is evident that th
carg, is as weil won by battle as the. armament and
vessel.
,Bit'iftlie.whole of tire Act of congress he/to be taken
together, and the ,td section le permitted to reflect a light
upon the 1st section, it will appear that coi:gress could
have had no other meaning than that the Isalvage should
be'increased upon the rargo s well as the vessel and
armament. In the.second 'section. where'they give a
salvageulmn thecir owt\ prperty thus captured by a private armed vessel, they give one half of thegoods on board
as well as of the vessel and armament.
But should not time cargo be considered as a mere incident to the vessel and follow its fate and character ?'
As to the French property we 'are entitled to the
whole as prize or war by.the foregoin rule of twentyftr hours possession which is the ruleiif France. - Recipi'ocity is the rule in this case. ,See the act f 1800,
section 3.
The twenty-four hour rule is established in France by
ordinance of 15th June, 1779, with respect to all re-captures iy privatere.s. France. in her trmaty with Holland,
-is, May, 1781, secures the twenty-Sour'hour right to
privateers. The Court %Nillfind Those acts of France
referred to in 2...uni, 276 qnd 282. 2 Dallas,2, Ml-

FEBRUARY TERM iMiS.
kret. a4 6.ship 1iesolution. This is a strong case esTIMT
tablishing the twenty-four hour right. It rtfers to an sonooNun
ordinance of cr.ngess delaring this rule as to us, and ADnLIM.
refers to the French ordinance to the same point. It
...
admits the twenty-four hojar rile, but excludes its application to that case, that being the case of a neutral
capture ' hich convoyed no right. See also the case of
the .Mary FPrd, S Dal. 188, At,Donough -c.
Dannery.
On the right of the re-captors on the 4th point of the
case theN will not enlarge by -argument, as they consider
it well established ; fior on that of the 5th point than
merely to observe that it appears to be just, ex izecessi.
tate, and-comes under the description of confusion inthe
civil law; nor as to the -6th point than to observe that
there isno standard -by which a character can be reflected opon these Claimants but the Toyige.itself; which
makes them either Anierican or Frmnch. The -de~cripfion of the claim negatives the idea of their being American ; they must, of course, be French. The 7th point
must meet the same construction for the same reason.
As to the principle contended for in lhe 8th point of
he case, it may be remarked, for elucidation, that some
-ofthe Claimants, descnibed as in this point turn out, by
the evidence, to be resident in France for commercial

purposes.
Is the owner of the vessel entitled to freight exclusiwq

of salvage?
The re-captors say the vessel is not entitled to f,-eight
because she 'would have been condemned hnd she been
bi'ought into England. But if entitled to fi'tight, the
,captors have saced that freighbt, and are therefore enti.
tIed to one half as salvage.* Freight may remain, after
all the rights of the captors are deducted, to be adjusted

between the vessel and the freighters.
This question can only apply to the American part of
the cargo ; for as to the.French, the rule is to vest the
property absolutely in cases. of re-capture after £iwentyfour h6urs possession : the postliminii right and all its
incidents are destroyed.
VOL. IX,
32

250
THE

IRVING,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
in behaLf of the owners of the essel, and of

ScHOONEn such'parts of the cargo as "wereclaimed by persons resde[t
APELINE.

in the United States.
The schooner Adeline is a registered American vessel
owned by IsAac Levis and William Weaver. nativo citizn4 of the United States, and residetits of PI iladelphin,
and was commissioned as *anAmerican letter of marque.
Shxe commnenced her voyage from Bordeaux, to a port in
the United States, in the month of Marcb,'181t, having
on board a cargo owned principally by, citizens of the
United States and others residing in our territory. In
th6 course of this voyage, she *as first captured by two
British vessels of war, and was afterwards, tnd before
her condemnation as Prize, re-captured by an American
private armed vessel. Upon her first capture, most of
her papers were taken from on board by the captors,
and thost, which were loft have been delivered up to the
district Court at New York, and transcripts of the same
are contained in the record before this Court.
In these cases most of tile claims and test aila.
vits sp. cify the property respectively claimed, at the
'time of shipment in the Adelino, and at the time of capthri, to have been owned'by citizens and residents in
the United States.
Many of tOme claims and test affldiivits testify that the
goodls Ihus clammed vested in the Claimants before and at
Oe time of capture and re capturo; and generally all the
claims are supmorted b) the respec.tive bills of lading. In
truth th re is not a papi r attachd to this record which
falsifies any cl~im or casts any suspicion upon them. An
objection has been taken to some of those claims, becausQ
they do not state that the property vested in the Claimants at thetime of shipm-nt, and that, for aught that appears to this Court, the property might have been transferred in transitu.
Admitting this to be the fact, how c 'n such transfer
prejudice those Claimants ? Time vessel was an Ameri.,
cai, vessel coming from a Frenchport to a port of the
United States.
The rule, that the character of property must be de-

FEBRA ~RY T19RM:181$.

21rd

termined by its shipment, that the same cannot be trans- TuE
ferred in its transit, but, as respects belligerent rights, scHooEIZ
must be cons'dered as remaining the same as at the time ADnLINE.
of shipment, applies only to enemy property. Dauhckebaar .ifricaan,I Rob. 90. .4mer. .Eait.--the Yrow .Vrgaretha, 1.Rob. 2 5, .Amer.Edition.
But the claims objected to will be found, on examination, to agree with those which are in common use in the
admiralty Courts of England, even in cases where the
property is captured as prize of war. The Fortuna, 2
Rob. in the appendix. Si3. It is sufficiept to assert property in the 'Claimants and to negative the all, gation of
title in the enemy at the time. of capture. .Those clai'iis
and test affidavits are testimony in a prize cause, and
will be deemed satisfactory, unless there is s,)ne evidence
in the ship's papers or preparatory examinations to invalidate them. See the duke of .N'ewcastle'sletter in the
appendix to Chitty. 6 Rob. 55, the Haabet.
But to proceed to the merits of this case. Upon examining thelibel of the captors, the first enquiry %%il;be,
whether this property coadd be captured as "prie,for it
has been so libelled.
The commission to our private armed vessels, under
the act deplaring war, authorizes the re-taking of property captured which was originally American. The
property thusre-taken can only present a case of salvage,
because the title of the origiad proprietors never has
been divested ; and that equally' whether the property
was originally American or neutt-al.
The interest of the captured property does not vest in
the captor until after final adjudication. 5 Rob. 167,
Ahm. Edit. the Elsebe----,sect. prz=e act, 11th 'ont. Uuited
States laws. And thefifth section of the prize art provides, , that all vessels, goods and effects the property
of any citizen'of the United States, or of persons withint
and under the protection of the United States. or of persons permanently re-sident with;n and underthe protection
of any foreign prince, governmmitor state in amity with
the U. States, which have been captured by.tht enemy and
which have.been re-captured by vessels commissioned as
aforesaid, shall be restored to the rightful owners, upon

SUPREME COuRTD U.

"

THE
payment by them respectively of a just and reasoiaifo
SCHOONnR salvage, to be determined by the mutual Atgreement of the
AnnFLINP,. partibs concerned, or by Oe decree of any Court having
competent jurisdiction, according to the, nature of each
case, agreeably to the provisions heretofore established
by law."
-The present case, then, before the Cnort determines
itself to be a case of sal, age, if there was a right to re.
capture,-and if the Rervice rendered was meritorious. The
right is pt qyestioned, for the re-capture was from the
2n6my ;.nor is' the service questioned, for the property
would have beei otherwise lost.
It becomes however a matter of enquily, whether the
re-captdrs tnder their present libel can have a decree for
salvage. The phpers taken frotn on board the vessel
and the examinations in preparatorioproved that the recaptured vessl- was an American vessel, and that her
cargo was in part American and in part French. It was
evident, therefore, that the re-capture mbuld only present
9 ease of salvage; and as such the vessel 'and cargo
should haVe been libelled. 1 ut the libell'ants have 'proceed.'d against the property as prize of-war, and have aserted title to it as such.in all their allegations. Uust
they not mtke out those allegations, and) if theyail, can
they,.as a Iast resort, seek for salvage, when such has not
bten prayed foi' in their libel, nor in any manner spread
upon the record before this Court?
But if the Court should be of opinion tllat a decree for
salvage can be made upon the libel, clanis and disclosures in this record, then the only question will'be the.
amount of this salvage. The re-captors contend for a
moiety, and we, that they should have but a sxth. Which
is right must depend upon a just constrtuotion of the act
in cases of re-, apture, passed 3d .Xarch, 1800, 5 Vol. U.
$tates lazesy P&t Grtqdon, 118.

T~Ihe first branch of the first sectioii of tlis act provides that, "a re-raptu red- vesselyother than a vessel-of
war or f'
tearmed vessel, shall be restofed, on ~pay-

rnent of o ne ¢ighth, (iftaken by a public armed vessel,)
of the v tie of ihe ke-ciptnired vessel and cargQ; and it
re-taken by a'private armed veselpof one sixtli," '

YEBRUARY TERM ISO.

253.

The second branch of that section provides '"that if

TIM

he re-captured vessel shall appqar to have been set forth schoonen
and armed as a vessel of war before such capture, or ADELTNE.
fterwards and before the re-taking, the salvage shall be
one mity of the true value of such vessel of War or pri'Vateer.-"
The act contemplates two descriptions of casps t to
*es'sels, viz. armed and uijarmed ; the former are to pay
a moiety, th latter a sixth. The law having settled the
amount the Court when it ascert-hi whtit thb law L9.
will adhere to the provision. Now the construction must
depend on the evident nicaning and intent of the legisl,ture, as clearly to he gathered from j yiew'uf the whole
pFoyision ; and it may Ve adopted as a fundamental rule,.
that where there is an express ]provision, -there shall not
be a provision by implicatign ; expyiessio uiusoestexcu,sio alferus,
The firit clause poVidea for the case of jinarmrd vcs
eels and goods. It comm.'nces by stating "that when
-any vessel unarmed, or when any gooi .9,'" (not on
board such vesse.] hut wholly in'the disjunctive,) when
dnygoods (reaching any and every case of goods) whon
any such are captured by.a "private armed vesel, one
sixth shall be allowed. It proceeds throughout fe whole
clause in ttie disjunctive, saying thatsuch vessel orgoods
shall bb restored on payment of onl sixth as salvage.
The second clause is studiously confinedt'o tesselsv
6c and if such vesseV" (passing by goods altofgether and
leaving the general provision for gaoods unhupaired,) and
value
if such -vesselis armed, then one moiety o tiee
of such vessea is to be allowed; rep atint and carefully
oonfQning the provision to the vesel, and that too, with 0
peculiar particularity.- Congress in express words distinguish; they place private uiarmed vessels and aft
goods re-capt-rid on thfe same ooting,
The fifth iection of the prfize act5 taws of the *.United
States, voL 11f p. 2A6, § 5, declares that the above provisions are to regulate cases ofsalvage.
But it is contendea that the intent of a statute is fo ha

SUPREME COURT U. S.

considered, that the design of the legislature is to be col.
I grant it, .wherever there is any ambigeity in
XDELWEg. a statute. In such case it isthe privilege and 'duty of
the Court to' give a just construction. But this'only
holds in *cases where there is great obscurity, not in cases where the provisions of the statute are clear and.explicit. To hold that a Court can intermeddle with such
pravisions is to.clothe the Court with" legislative as well
asjudicial powers-to 'authorize it to niake laws instead
of only expounding them.
THi&

SCHOONER suited.

It.is laid down in Parker. 23, that where the words
ofa statute are express, plain and clear, they ought to be
construed according to the genuine and natural signification and impol, unless by such'exposition a construction or inconsistency would arise inthe statute by reason
of some' subsequent, dausc from whence it might be in'fexred that the intent of parliament was otherwisu. '
-gutit is saidlthat from the provision contained in the
second section-oflte statute we may gather, that it wag
the-intent of 'thelegislatire to give a moiety of the goods
on board a private armed vessel to the re-captor, as well
aA A moiety of th vesseL, When ve come to examine.
tbig sectiony which is thnu, pressed into the 6orvice of the
first, weshall find thatit relates, entirely to the propi.rty bf the United States which may be re-captured.
It has, no'-'eirence to the first. section, it speaks of
p.'operty of a diirerent description, differently owned. In,
the last clause it provides, that if a vessel of war of the
Unitid- State's is recaptured by a private armed vessel, a
moiety of aiy goods on.board shall be allowed. The
government, deeply interested in the preservation of out'
puliic vessels; the n.attonal character, deeply interested
rescuing from the enemy our vessels of War and
in toli
in not perxittingt hem th exist as mementos of their triurnp; tI6 national prosperitj', deeply interested in pre.
serving to us the means of otn' own strength and in pre.
venting the same from bing added to'that of the enemy;
these are sufficient inducements for our govei'nnient to
makean extraordinary provision. The service is not
rendered to an individual, it is rendered'to the nation; it
is more meritoiious; f/,elingi of patriotism more than
of interest may have imp.elled to the performance of the

FEBRUARY TERM im.
duty; the danger waz greater, the object diore impor- T~aZ
tant; the recompense-should therefore be encreascd.
scHoo MR
ADELINE.

But tl~e first and second sections of this statute are
-wholly independent. The first relates to the re-capture
of private property either by.our public or private armed
vessels. The second: relates t9 the re-capture of public
property either by our public or private armed vessels.
Each-section is perfect in itself, and each independent of
the other; .neither requires the interposition of any
Court to explain them.

,,Wherever any words of a statute are, obscure or
dotibtful, the intention of the legislature is to be reorted
to in orderto find the meaning ofr the words." Plowden
57, Wiibimh v. Tadbois.
Where words of a statute are plain and positive, it is
not the province of the Court to search after new consfructions.
Justice Buller remarks in the case of Bradley cy ano-'

ther v. Clark, s T. R. 201. ' that, with regard to the construction of statutes according to the intention of the
legislature, we must remember, that there is an essential
fifferencle between the expqunding of modern and ancient
apts of parliament., In early times the legislature used
to pass laws in general and in few terms; they were left
to the -Courts of law to be construed, so as tb reach all
the cases within the 'misliief to be remedied. But in

modern times, great car has be.n taken to montion the
particular cases inithe contemplation of the legislature,
ind therefore the Cnirts are not permitted to take the
same liberty in construing themn as they did in expoundipg the ancient statutes."

But the provisions in this statute respecting salvage
were n)t unadvised provisions hurr'edover without deliberation. Chngress, in consequence of the partial v =
with France, had been called on to legislate repeatedly
upon the subject.
The first provision was by statute 28th Jutn, i798,
N vcol. United States laws, p. i5b, sect. 2d. This is gen-

SUPREME COURT ,U. S.
* nz
IcHooNER

eral for vessel and cargo, armed or unarmed, one eifghth;
all are placcd on the same footingi

U)BLINE.

The second provision was by 'statute of,March -2d
1709, Ith vol. United States laws, p. 172. That gives,.
(if detained 24 hours,) one eighth ; if 48 ours, one fifth ;
if 96 hours, one half-; without any distifictibn between
vessel ind goods, oi' 1irMet anil unarmed.
Tfi'enext yeai', induced by the inconvenience or ine.
juaity of the former laws, they made a deliberate provision. The subject was fresh; every clause was aveighed. Those provisbns had ben. a matter of investiga.
tion f6r three successive sessions of congres, and had
been successivcly amended. Can it be saiO, then, thht
eongresg had not a view of the whole ground, that they
werehurried in.thepasing of this law. The very law they
were considering was an amendment, and would naturally cause enquiry and eflection.
In mature deliberation, therefore, they, in theyeari8oo,
evact the ireseat law. They discriminate between private 'unarnied Vessels and goods, allowing one sixth for
salvage, and for the vessel alone, if armed, a nioiety.
The r4captured propeityof the United States is placed
in a distinct section, wholly unconnected with the other,
If we attend to the language of thelast clause of the
Arst sectiot, giving-to .the recaptors the moiety ofa,priVate armed "ves.se, we shall ascertain the reason why a
grvater salvage was given for the vessel-than the gctods.
The eetionstfates, i and if the vessel so retaken shal
appear to have been set forth and arid as a 'vessel of
war.".-,
If the'enemy are thus possessed of the means of
injaringcOt trade and of capturing other vessels, then,
as tl wikesting those weapons from their hands prevents
tkhe prpptration .bf'further mischief, for this meritorious se'ice we will give to you onp half of those instruments of alnoyance.and destruction, The same reasoning will not apply. to the goods ; the public reap not the
name benefit from their re-capture.
Bixt it ha been heretofore argued in this cause, tlht a
greater rate of salvage should be allowed than -o.m

FEBRUARY TERM ISti.
sixth, and that a cmstruction to that efflct'should be given
to the statute, because the service wa- very nerioiioub; sctiooNEr.
the property had almost reached,an enemy port. atkd but ilmIA-..
for the management and iutrepidity of the re-captors
would have been wholl% lost.. And is nnt that tho case
in every capture bya belligerent? Did otcongress know,
when they passed this law. th diffi ulty ofgeiting prizes
home? Were they not then in fact more d-stit-,te of a
navy than at present'? In pursuance of thi-r argument
of extrabrdinary :nerit upmi the present occasion, it has
ben ured-that the re-captured vessel was armed ; and
that life was hazarded equally in re-rapt ring the goods
a in re-capturing the vessel. In tMe present ins!anco it
is idle to talk of danger ; the Adeline from her arma
ment was incapable of making resistance, and whether
she did or not is problematical, as from the preparatory
examinations there appear to be an uncertainty whether arly resistance was'attempted. It is, however, certain that the resistance, if any, was a mere parade; .Ind
that having"fired one or twoguns, the vessel instantly surrendered. Not a soul was hurt on either side, and the
privateer did not deem the resistance sufficiently important to return.
--But admitting that the service, by any chance, might
have been very nmeritorious ; that great gallantty might
have been displayed and many lives lost; yet under this
statute. I know not how ny Court can interfere with its
settled provisions.
In the case of the Apollo, 3 Rob. q5O, which vessel
was cut out from under fie. guns of a French fortress,
where much daring spirit was evidenced on the part of
the re-captors, and much danger hazardod, and whera
extraordinapy salvage was applied for, Sir William
Scott says, "call re-captures within the qct are put upon
the same footing of merit and reward ; therefore all that
is said on the pa'ticular gallantry of the, service is foreign to any singularly favorable application of this act
which has provided but one measure for all caseso without reference to -circumstances."
With respect to the property of alien friends resident
-n the United States, and re-captured in this vessel, I
VOLa IX -

SUPREME COURT U. S.

THE
only remark that the provisions in the, prize act apply
SOHOONER equally to them as to our own citizens reciding within
40EI.NA. our territory.

-

a

A claim has also been int'rposedbythe ownbrs of the
schooner Adeline l;r freigbt and primago of that part
of the cargo which inot owhied by them1 That such
should be allowed I would respectfully contend there
can he no question, as the voyage has bern performedl,
and the ear o delivered at its port of destination. But
the re.captors assert that they are.entitled to a salvage
of this freight. On the part of the owners, this is opposed ; first, because salvage of the freight is not given by
the statute. and, second, because it is in fact alloVod iii
the value of the goods.
The act has prescribed the terms on which the vessel
and goods are to lie restored. The- Court cannot add to
those terms. The re-captors have no means of procuring this salvage except by witholding tile goods ; iut
the act declares that the goods shall he given up, upon
payment of one sixth of their value, without nmakin i any
provision for salvage of freight Againit whorn could
thb d;,crce for a salvage of the freight lie ? Not against
the goods. fir they are delivered up; not against the
owners of the goods, for they are thot before tile Court.
But salvage of fr'eight is in fact paid in the increased
value of the goods. The presumption is that the merchandize is enhalnced that value by the importation.
Now tile salvage is not on the invoice vah, but on the
true valte of the gnods. This valu6 is rtscertained by
sale or appraisement at the place where-the property iq
brought ; .no deduction iq made except imports-and duties. Besides, the re-captors should not claim an addi.
tionrd recompense for perlfcting that without which
they c4uld not participate in tie cargoa The brlinging
,this pri.p.rty safely in entitles th-.m to the oie sixtll of

its-value, mid that alone is specified in the statuteas their
reward.

The district Court, from whinsedecision the re-captorm
haveappealed,decreed, on the 9th of August, 1.814, that
-the re captors should have as salvage one sixth part pf
all the goods or, board this vessel owned by "American

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
Mtizens and alien fivends residing in the United Statesj
TM
and also a moiety of the vesel, her tackle, apparel, &c. scUooNER.
ADEBLE.

In this decree the Claimants of that description acquiesced.
The re-captors have by successive appeals brought
rIhe funds arising from a
sale of this property, which sale took place belbro
the aecision ',fthe district Court, have been lying iMnproductive in the last mentioned Court ever since. If
tlis'Court should affirm the decree o the Circuit Court
in the above mentioned cases. then those Claimants pray
thatcosts and damages may be awarded them.

this case -befoie this Court.

D. B.-OGDEN,

for aft the Claimants.

This vessel qnd car'go were re-captured by the L xpedition from the English, who had captured her, on a
voyage from Bordeaux to New York. The Adeline is
American property, and her cargo part of it American,
part French.
The Adeline and cargo are libelled as enemiy's property,
and the libel prays that they may be condemnt d as such.
The clainis deny the fact of its being enemy's property,
and aver that in some cases it is American property, in
others that it is the vronertv of alien friends.
Before I consider the questions raised by the captors,
I must first bpgle.aie to call the attention of the 'Court
to some observations upon the nature of this cause as it

apvears from the libel, claims and evidence.
Tie libel charges the property as being enemy's, and
prays fo' its condemnation as such., The claim denies
the fzct of enemy's property, and avers that it is American or the property of alien friends.
It is evident that the only point in issue, the only
question arising between these parties upon the claim
aud libel, is whether this property be or be not enemy's,

mid as such liable to condemnation ?
j-n all cases of prize there must be a regzlae'judicial

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PrnF

'proceeding, and so in all other cases in a Court of iid

.sPiooriin niiralty as well as in any othel' Court. (See the tus'%er
AD)LMNE. to the Prussian nen,ojlial, ill the appeni ix to Chitti's
law of nations, 314, also to be found in collectanea juni--------died.
All regular judicial proceedings consist of the proofs
and allegations of the partics. I he iilhegations of the partit s are first made. and then the prooli are produ'ed' to
support them. I undt-istand the rule to be univeisal ini all
Courts in which there are regular judicial pr:'ceedihgs,
that as a party cannot recover upon allegations ii ithout
proof, so n-itht'r can he recover upon proot)s without pro.
per allegations. The judgment of the Court must be ac-

cording to the proofs and allegations.
What are the allegations of the parties in this case?
The libel is in the nature of a declaration in a common law Court, or of a bill of complaint in a Court of
equity. It must state sufficient facts fur conilenliation,
with sufficient certainty, and conclude vith a proper and
sufficient prayer. It must apprize the person claiming
the property libelled of"the grounds upon which a eondemnhition will be Asked, otherwise it would be more that)
useless to require a libel at all.
Now this libel alleges or charges that this is enemy's
property, and asks for a condemnation of it as such.
Unless the evidence in the cause proves it to be enemy's property, I apprehend the Court never %yill,under
this libel, condemn it.
The idocuments on board the captured vessel, and all
tie exaininotians in preparaforio, so far from proving
the prikpi*rt to he enemy's property, prove directly the
reverse ; anat indeed it is not pretended by the counsel
for the captors that there is the least ground to suspect
the property or any part of it to be hostile,
Can the captors have a decree for salvage in this case?
I th k not, because they do not ask for it in their libel ;
because the question here is not whether the captors are
entitled to salvage or'not, but whether this is enemy'a

FEBRUARY TERM 18M5.

261f..

property or not? 1 do not believe a single case can be
Tat
prodaced in the books where salvage has btm, decrt'ed scuooNrE
unless it was specially asked for by the libel. A libel, like AU.nL IE
a declaration, may contain several grrcuds of a decree,
or, to speak in common law lauguagr, several counts:
AnI there must be a count for sahage. or it cannot be
decreed.
In Hafl' A.Odmiralty practice, 144, will he found a precedent ofa libel where salvage is claimed, drawn by one
'f the most learned and experienced lawyers, partitcularly as'a civilian, in the United States; which, although
no authority, will certainly be cohsidered as etititled to
some weight, as shewing the opinion of an enlightened
awyer upon the subject.
It is -no answer to this argument to say that where
property has been libelled as prize, property of friends
is freqnently condemned up( n the ground of rtesidenco
in an enemy's country or tr,di,.g with an one y, becaus, suc'h property is conside. ed, guaadhce, as enenlmy's
property., abd therefore comes within the allegation of
enemy's property in the libel.
If I am right in the arganent upon this subject, thl
I think it follows of course that if this is not enemy's
property it cannot be condemned to the captors, but
must be wholl. restored to the Claimants without any
salvage whatever. It is no hardship to the captors to
acquit the property ; they knew the facts- when they filed
their libel-; they made their election in what way to proceed against it; and, like all other parties in a Court of
justice, they must be bound by that election.
This, being property re-c.aptured from the enemy,
imust be considered, pritircfaie,notasenemny's property.
It cannot be presumed that they would capture their own,
property..
Now property re-capturnd from an enemy never canbe proceeded against as prize- of war,; it i. not considered
as enemy's property until, in som6 countries, it has been
carried infra presidia; in others, has been twenty-fiur
tours in possession of the enenmy, in England, and

SUPREME COURT U. S;
THE, under our prize 'act,
sCHoONER coinpetent-court.

ADELINE.

until. it'has been cofidemnned in a

If the captors have any claim to any part of this prope'ty - it must be because re.catureafiron, 1h cneni#.
But hii stich claire'is set up in tlt. libet; the right 6f' rliopert) remaifis in the liunaims; it has uever bi-en cliaitg
ed, and must therefbre be restored to tlhem.

.But it is said t lat some of the'se claims are insufficirnt,
because they do not say'that thei property bhngeuI to
the Claimants at the time opshipient, but. nierel) tt tjio
time of capture.
I answer, if the property belo(ngs to the Claimants now
it is all which the Court will require in .this casi . I have
already. endeavored to shew dat the capiors have no"
claim to the.property ; it folloNss, then, tlhat the Court
will. restore it to the lirol e oulners at the time of the
decree. Suppose, howe'er, that 1 am vrung in the
pi'nciples'wshich I have endeavored to establish. and that
the captors .can have a decree in their favor in this
case ; let me enq'uire whether the claims above alluded
to are not sufficient ? All that is, necessary for the claim
is to deny the material allegations in the libel. T he
allegation here is that the property is enemy's propt rty,
awil us such liable to be condemued. This allegation is
expressly denied by the claim. Nothing more is eveV
required in a claim.
"Where there are any circumstances which raise a
presumption that the property is' etuemy's, such as coming fromi an Pu in) 19
' port, foljnd on board an einy,
vessel, &r. &c. then it becomes nece;ssary for the Claimant to explain away thosi, circumstances, to prove tho
friendly nature of the prolprty, t) shew it to lve been
friendly at the time uI it; shipment. &c. which 'is done
in what is called , the test qffldarit," not in the claim.
But in' cases where the property, from the circumstan.
ces of tho cese. must i. ce-sarily he presuned to belong:
to our own citizens or o,r friends, (as in the case (f a

re-c:pture) then no test aff'davizt canbe necessary.; then
no explanation is asled, because none is required.

FEBRUARY TERM 8IM.
TE
If these claims are insufficient, does it follow that this
s oo1IQO
property must be condemned?

The claims being insuffirient, the Court will eitOi~r
sui.r the. Claimants to amend them, or they will consider them as nio claims, and dispose of the propertyaccordingly.
if an amendment is allowed, there can be no difficulty
in removing this objection.
If the claims are'consldered as no clalms, is thp property to be condemned as a matter'of course?
If the captors in ease of capture sena in a vessel, aiter taking ont the master. supercargo and every other
persim who- wou1 probably claim; and, leave on board
only one or two of the crew whose examinations may
be taken in preparatorio, and who are wolly ignoiant
as to the property on boarl,-i r when a vessel and cargo thus sent iWis libelled :s prize, is it to be condemned
of course As prize, because no claim Ls put in or.filed
for it?
If all the papers and documents, and evidence in preparatorioprovt the property not liable ti condemnation,
is it to be -condemned because no claim is filed for it by
the owner?
This doctrine would fHlow from the arguments upon
the other side, but it is too monstrous to be supported
by any Court.
upon this subkject to be this, viz : The
I take the law
in a Cort of adniralty are in rcni. The
proceedingn
subject matt,.r j 9 'in substance, in possession of the
Court, and they never will decree it to the captors or to
any othev persdn, unles.i they can shew a rigid to it.
They never will give the captors my property because
I do not claim it, not being possibly in a situation to
know that it has been captured or libelled.
If thsre be no claim fileO the Court will examine tlm
papers 'and examinations in preparatorio, and if, from

--

SUPREME

5OURT V. S.

'1U
ti fice of them, there appeirs good ground of condom.
the
Schooner nation) they will condemn, otherwise not.
ADELIUE.

•It is not like the case of a judgment by default in a
COurt of common law, where the Plaintiff takes judgnitnt for his debt; becanse, at commmn law, the process has been personally served upon the Defendant, he
is actually in Co-i't, or has been proceeded against to
outlawry. No sarprize can be conpliained of by him.
.Not so in a Court 'f admiralty, where the proceeding is
in rent. ; and whert the owner may neverl know that his
property is in 'jeopardy. The. Court being possessed
of it'are bound to giv' it tip to no body but him who has
a gnod right ro it. If from the libel and the proofs before the Court it appears that the captors are entitled
to the pr6perty, the Conrt will decree it to them ; otherwise not. Aad for this. among other reasons, it is an
invariablb' rule that a claim mst always lie Vut in under
dath, so that if the Court or,l,,r prolerty to be restored
to the Claimant, they may at least have some evidence of
'his right to.it.
For these reasons iftherewure not
claims put in to this
property at all, yet, as from the proofs in tha case
taken' in preparatorioit is clearly not enemy's property,
I contend that the Court could not condemn it as prize
of war.
This case, being that of a re-cap ire, is a case in which
the questions are, whether the property shall be re4t'ed
to the original owilers, and upon what'termas ? As there
is no pretence that the property belongs to an enrmy,
tlhere is no reason that the chin should negate a trensfcr inL transitu;.which lr'.nsf'er is void only when its
effect would be to neutralize belligerent property.
If the libel in this case be such as the Coirt can proceed upon to award salvage to tle captors, I shallinow
ibriefly examine upon what terms the property in question mustberestored to its foirmer owners. This property
consists,
I. Of the vessel claimed as American property and
proved to be so.

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
2.Of property of American citizens stated to be residentin the United States.

THE

sciiooNiEn
ADE-

S. Of property of American citizens, whose place of
residence is not stated.
4. Of property of alien friends, resident in the United
States.
5. Of property of subjects of France, residing in
France.
First,as to the -vessel.
By the act of congress of 26th June, I8M2, entitled
" an act concerning letters of wat que, prizes and prize
$goods," section 5, vol. 11? p. 2A0, Is it is enacted,
"c that all vessels goods and effects, theV property
",of any citizen of the United States, or of persons
" resident within and under the protection of the
6 United States, or of persons permanently resident
-within and under the protection of any foreign prince,
- government or state in amity with the United States,
S whch shall have been captured by the enemy and which
" shall be re-captured by vessels coinihissioned as afbre" said, shall be restored to the lawful owners, upon pay"c ment by them respectively of a just. and reasonable
"csalvage,to be determined by the mutual agreement of
" the parties concerned, or by the decree of any Court
c"having comp tent jurisdiction, according to the nature
cc df each case, agreeably to the provisions heretofore
,"cttablished by law."
Now the provisions heretofore established by law are
to be found in an act of congress passed on the sd.arch.,
I8oM, vo 5, p. 38.
This act after providing for the restoration, of vessels and goods; after re-captnre, upon the ates ofsalva.je
therein mentioned, proceeds in th:-se words, - and if tho
Svessel so re-taken shall appear to have been set forth
" and armed as a vessel of war, before such capture ora afterwards and before the re-taking threof as aforeit said, the former owner or owners on the restoration
VOL. I .S.

I/iE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
"thereof, shall be adjudged to pay, for and in lieu of
sCHOo.YEIU " salvage, one moiety of the true value of such vessel
A&DINE. '.of war or privateer."

Under this act I presume the Court cannot hiesitate in
affirming the judginmnt of the Circuit Court with costs
anti expenses of prosecuting this appeal.
Second, aq-to the property of American citizens, resident in the United States.
The a't of .-March, i800, -Vol. 5, p. 38, is positive in
its provisions upon this subject/ the property must be
xesto.ed upon one sixth salvage.
The decree of the Circuit Court upon this property,
I contend ought also to be affirmed with costs.
.Tlird, as to the property of Americlin citizens, whose
place of residence is not stated.
This, in my view or the sulject, is the only point in
the'cause upon which the mind can at all hesitate, and
when this'i fully considered, [ trust all doubt upon it
will vanish.
It is contended on the part of the captors, that as no
place of residence is mentioned, these Awuerican citizens
must be considered as resident in France, and tlat the
rule as to the. restoration of the priperty of French
su)jects must therefore apply to them. To this I allswer,
First. T do not think the presumption a fair one, that
because no place of resi'lence is mentioned, they are
therefo,-e to be. cons;;lernd as resi.in.g in Frhnce. As
thoy are citizens of the United States, it would seem to
In- that they ought fairly to be presumed as residing in
tho. rinited States, until some evidence is produced to
the contrary.
If lhbwever the Court think it important# that the
Claiman.s should prove their place of residence, they
will, I presume, giire us an opportunity ofdoing so.

FEBRUARY TERM 1815.
mn-

Secondly, that the place of residence is wholly imma-

terial.

SCHOONER
AbELIN.

Because, being American citizens, and there being no:thing itnla%ful in their residing in France, or any other
country, with which we are at ptace, they have not forfeitd any of their rights as citizens ottthe United States'.
And the doctrine that r( sidt nee abroad, gih es a natiunal
character, applies only to the case of the subjects of two
nations whict, are at war with each other; or tW neutrals
r.siding in one of th. two belligerent nations ; but callnot be applied to such a ease as this. I forlbeai h(owtver
to enlarge upbn this point as 6:nnecessary. Because,
The question, as to the terms upon which this class of
Claimants are to havG their property restored, deju,nds
upon the construcion of the act of congress, which I
shall now consider.
By-the act of Jlarch, 1800, before referred to, it is de.
dared, that when any goods which shall hereafter be taken as prize - by any vessel, acting under authority froin
"the government of the United States, shall appear to
"chave before'belonged to any person or persons resicc dent xwithin or under the protection of the United States,
6Gand to have been taken by an enemy of the United
"States," &c. This question depends upon the construc.
tion of the above clause of the section.
In 'order that the property should be restored upon
the payment of one sixth salvage, it must belong ,, to
"some person or persons resident within, or uu'er the
9'protection of the United States."
If it belongs to any person resident *withinthe United
States, it is to be so restored : or if it belongs to any
persomn who is under tiw protectioa of the United States,
yhetber he resides therein or not, it is to be restored upon
the same terms.
ffllforeigners who are permitted to reside in the United
States, are under their protection, but no person who resides out of the United States is under the prptectionof th?
]Vnited States, but their ozwn citizens.

-

SUPREME COURT U. Is
In 2 Cranch -ep. 120, this Court held "tlint an
.IrBT
SCHOo nR American citizen residing abrotd is entitled to the pro.
ADkJi,3N

tection of his gavernment."
.8gain, every foreigner who resides in the United
States, must necessarily be under their protection, the
words therefore ,,or under the protection of the United
States" would be nugatory if intended to be applied to
such foreigners, and'no effect can be given to those
words, unless they are applied to citizens, residing out
of the United States, but who arc still under their protectioi. But if the words of the act of .6areh, 1800,
are of doubtful import, their true construction is I thin)
put out of .l1 doubt, by the act of 26th June. 1812, before
referred to. These two acts of congress beihg in prl
inateria, must be consillered as one act, and construed
accordingly.
The 5th section of the act of Jupe, 1812, declares "that
" all vssels, goods and eff:cts, the property of ahly citi"Zen
c
oJ the United States, or of presons esident within
"and under the protection of the United Sta:es," shall
be rstored "'agreably to the provisions heretofore estaSblished bylaw."
Now ihere were no other 'provisions established by
law, than those contained in the act of MAarch, 1800.
It is evident that congress must have intended by
the act of Afarch, 1800, to provide for restitution of the
any citizen pf the United States, whether he
property (if
resided within the United States or not. This is the
only construction by which the provisions of these two
acts can be reconciled.
That this was the construction intended by congress,
when these laws were passed, will be still more evident
when we examine with a little more care, the different
phraseology of them.
The act of laych, 1800, says nothing about citizens
of the United States, but speaks of property belonging
to persons resident within or under the protection of the
United States, t.lireby nieaning, as I contend, filpersons who reside within the United States, and aU citi-

,FEBRUARY TERM 18I
zens under thp protection of the United States, let thvm
TnU
reside where they may.
SCHOONLU
ADELINE.

The act of'Jue, 1812, provides for the cases of property - of any citizens of the United States," and oi "sper,.sons resident witl~ih and under the protection of the
6c United States."
A foreigner, residing in and under the protection of the'
Unitet, States, is entitled to hai e his property restored
under this act. This clause of the sentence does not apply to citizens at all, because their property is already
provided for by the words fc.any citizen of the United
States."
By the act of Jlarch, 1800, the property of all persons
resident within, or of persons under the protection oj th
United States, is to be restored; withoult which latter
words, no provision was made for citizens out of the
country, these words were for that-reason unquestionably
inserted.
For these reasons I contend that it is irmnterial
where the American citizens reside, they are entitled to
have their property restored upon paying one sixth as

salvage.

Fourth, as to property of alien friondg, resident in the
United States.
-NTo observations are necessary to prove that under the
acts of congress referred to, they are entitled to restorafion upon paying one sixth salvage.
Aisto them the decree I presume will be affirmed with
costs'and expenses.
Fifth, as to the property of subjects of France residing
in that country.
By the 3d sect. of the act of Mlarch, 1800, vol. 5, p. 40,
'this property is to be restored upon the same salvage
on which, by the laws of France, the property of American
citizens would have been restored to them under similar

SUPREME COURT. U S.
TrHE
scHooNFR
ADELINE.

circumstances. And if no law or usage of France is
known upon the subject, the same salvage is to be allowed as if it were the property of a person resident in the
United States, (viz. onb sixth.)
Now Iconfdss I have not been able to find what was
the rule in France upon that suidect.
Whether the ordinance of 1779i made upon this sub.
ject, and which is referred to in the argument on tho
other side, was in force at the time of this re-capture or
not, orwhether that ordinance, like almost every thint elso
in that country, was destroyed daring the dreadful'revolution which she has just passed through, I know not.
I confess my ign6rance, and I have endeavoured in vain
to obtain information about it.
If no such French rule is Known to the Court, tlien I
claim- this property belonging to French subjects, residing in France, upon the same salvage which by the act
of congress, it ought to be restored to them, if they resided in the United States;
K.mET, .for the Re-captors, in reply.
Most of the cargo has been claimed; but no claim
whatsoever has been put in for the property expressed in
the bill of lading, No. 23, (26 bundles of steel to be delivered to C. W. Huty, of Philadelphia,) nor to that ex
-pressed idi No. 3.5) (a harp and case of stri;gs to be delivered to T. Delort, who has come in and claimed other
property,) nor' to that expressed in No. 39, (1 case of
pencils, on account and risk of Mr. Fongarolly, of Now
York.) This circunslanc. would not have been noticed
here, but that it is called for by part of M'. Ogden's argument, who (partially admitting that a bad claim is tan,
tamount to none at all) contends that the want of one is
no ground forcondemnation, In England, by the prize
ficts, regulations are made in case of non-claims for a limited tirhe. In our Courts, for want of any sudi regulations,
defaults, as I understand, are usually taken, but the property not put out of the poiver of the Court for a reasonable time. It is unnecessary tddiscuss the propriet of
that arrangement in the present case ; for certainly, after
the lapse of a year, where the parties, who ought to claim,

FEBRUARY TERBI 1ao.

271

ate in the immediate *vicinity of the Court,, and have w
come f6rwardt-with no claim at all, or one'not-discloging sonooIEV
what isnecessary to ascertain the innocent character 6f AEL N .
the property, or the foundationior terms upon which restoration should be hadI where they have refused te sanction of an oath to verify documents that, vithout it) may
well be questionable; there can be-no ground for awarding iestitution to them. Their silbnce, or evasive mode
-of claiming, must be regarded as intentional ; and indicating that they canunt make out a fair case for restoration.
Mr. Ogden contends for restitution without salvage,
on~another ground; that this lihel being for condemnation as enemy's property and prize .ofwar, salvage cannot be. awarded under it; -therefore, says he, it.must be
restored without salvage. That conclusion is early illogicil, for if it were true that salvage could not be awarded under these proceedings, the only conseqtietice would
be that the property should be retained, and the re-cap.
t.rs turned round to libel for salvage- 'he position itself. from which"the conclusion is drawn, is, also erroneous; for in all cases of military salvagc, the proceediugs are as against a prize, and the payment or salvge.
is a condition necessarily imposed by the decree of resi:
titution on the Claimant. It is not properly the thing
sought for by the Libellant au contested by the Claimant. I do not mean to say that it may not have bec
done from greater caution and perhaps want of practical
experience, in the United States ; or that if done, it ought
not to be supported, hut it is neither usual nor necessary.
Mr. Ogden refers, to a precedent of that kind ii HaIals
aNiriralty.practice, I have not the book by me, and cannot refer to the authority. but if it be a libel fur mere
military salva.je, the iittroduction of it in thatbook shews
that the authors ideas were not very well arranged upon
the subject which occupied him ; for his book isonly ft
translation of Cark-', Praxis Curio3.dmtralftis,wilich
treats exclusively ofthe Instance Court,,and has no relation to the prize Court 6f admiralty. It is sufficient
however foi me to ay that no precedent of a libel for
military salvage is to be found in Maryatt's Formulary,
or auy English book of autlority, and that obviously all
the cases in Robinson's reports, where such salvage is
decreed, are brought up under the prize, jurisdiction)

SUPREME COURT U. S.
and were proceeded against as prize of war. Let me ask
THE
gcHoomzu by*what right was the Adeline tAken by the Expedition
ADELINE. and held? Unquestionablyjure belli. By what right, or
by what course of proceedings were the re-captured
crew examined ib preparatorio, or the papers on board
her opened and inspected by the prize commissioners?
Because she was subject to be dealt with according to
prize lI'w. By a former prize act of England (33 G. &
c. 66, § 42,) it was enacted that re-captured ships set
forth by the enemy as vessels of war, should wvholly be.
long to the captors, and not be restored to the original
owners. How was such a vessel to be proceeded against,
but by libelling her as prize, and condemning her as
enemy's property ? So in the present case, part of the
re-captured property is French, which we contend (and
for the pre.sent I shall take for granted) ought to be con.demned to the captors and not restored at all. How are
we to proceed for that condemnation, but by libtlling as
prize of war? Why', underthe rule of reciprocity, is it
not to be restored ? Because by the French law belligerent property, of which an enemy has had 21 hours possession; is considered to have changed owners, to be the
absolute property of that enemy, and when re-captured
it is treated as the absolute property of that enemy, and
condemned as such by libel foir prize of war, The rulo
of reciprocity, (I Rob. ,Ad. Rep. .Ar. Edit. p. 53, in the
case of thd Santa Critz,) induces us to consider French
property, (placed in such cirCumstances as would, under
the laws of that countryo be held to make a complete
hange of ownership of American belitgerent property,)
as also acquired by the enemy ; and to adjudicate upon
it as actual enemy's p.roperty; of course to libel and condemn it as prize of war. Xon constat till the claims are
put in and sworn to, but that property, apparently American.is actually French ; and it iA recessary to proceed
for prize, ih order to get those claims and ascertain that
fact. A remarkable instance of that occurs, eyen in the
present ease. The bill of lading (No. $5.) of 280 caseg
of ciaret, state them to lie. shipped by order and for account and risk of DAvid Dunham, (presenting a primna
facie case of American property.) but when Mr. Dunham
comes to claim on oath, he states them to ble the property of Messrs. Johnson and Dowling suljets of tl
French empire. How was the knowlelge ofthat fact to
be obtained, but by forcing a claim on oath? and if we

F BRUARY TERIM 1815.

273

TuE
had-proceeded by libelling only for salvage of the property as American, how should we have learned that it scooxarn
was really subject to total condemnation as enemy's pro- ADLLINEz.
perty, under the reciprocal' application of the. French
Jaw? The proceedings in this way are also the most simple. The Libellant claims the ben'cfit of his prinmafacie
right arising from capture out of enemy hands jure Drell.
If there be any title to lie opposed to this, it must be
shewn and sworn to, and the Court will then decree, according to theextentofthattitle, either total restitution ofrestitution on terms of salvage. In ordinary cifil salvage,
which falls within the jurisdiction of the. lnstanre Court,
2 Rob. Ad. Rep. Am. Ed. p. L78, note on the case of the
Hope, the salvors never acquire a right of seizing the

property, and their first step (if th y proceed against it).

is a warrant of arxfest; they, then libel for salvage, because they have no superior, or prima facie title to the
thing itself; and the contestatiom "sabout the !aiount.
But a careful examination of Robinson's reports, i Rob.
Am. Ed. 32, Aquila. 4f2 Santa Cruz, 228, TI Two
Friends. 3 Rob. Am. Ed. :19, Tic Appo~lo. - Rob. Am.
Ed, i20, The Franklin. 5 Rob.,Eifg. Ed. .51,The Carlotta. 6 Rob. Ehg. Edh ,10, Tie Sansom, will shew that
is not the cours6 of proceeding, where the property has
been re-captured in war; and the only reason why it is
not .more clear, is that the matter, being long established and of cdii-se, is not noticed in the very brief statements which' that reporter prefixes to the arguments of
counsel andjudgment of the C'urt. Enough,' owever, is
given to establish my position. The Aiquila, (I Rob. 32,
35,) i'as a case of derelict,and, properly speaking, would
have belonged to the Instance C.u l. It 'pp -ars, howerer,
from the judgment, that ",some suspicions occum'd that
i'it was in fact the property of an enemy ; and under
"-these circumstances it became expedient to proceed
4,against it as prize, for the purpose of meeting' the pretenf
c sions of the ostensible neutral owner, and of bringingthe
"examination of his claim, whre alone it coudd be proper"ly-dscussed, into the prize Court. These measures were
" highly necessary, and therefore no objeytion canju~t.'
In the
orhe made against the. mode of proceeflig."
case of The Two Friend§,1 Rob. 228, 23t, 238, a protest
was made against the jurisdiction of the Coui't over an
American ship. The counsel on both sides allow that recaptures a matterof prize jurisdiction and in the judg35
VOL. ".

271

STJPREME, COURT V. S.

TrHE
ment, sir William Scott says, " but whatever may be the
SCHOONTE "law as to wreck and derelict, Iconceive itdoes n.ot tpADELIN .."ply to these goods. which I consider to 'be goods of
,,prize ; for I know no other definition of prize goods,
"than that they are goods taken on- the high seas jure
"belli out of the hands ofthe nemy ';and there is w ax,ion more clear than that such goods, wh.n they come
on shore, may be followed by the process of this
"Court.". In thie-case of "Tle Franklin,4 Ro'. 140, the
property was libelled as enemy's property and prize of
wari and further proof wus ordered or the property and
destination. It was niade and deemed satisfacto'y ; but
the captors insisted that restoration should only be made
on lerms of salvage. This was resisted by the Claimants
with arguments which perhaps have given rise to the
present point by the Claimants, although it was not a
case of re-capture or seizure jure belh frnm an enemy,
Sir William Scott held it was a case i which nw military
salvage was due ; lut directed (as the price of restoration in tis prize cause,) a civil salvage' of 500t. to be
paid. In tlhe case of the Jongo Lambert, 5 Rob. 5', reported in ahnote to the Carlotta, a Datck ship and cargo
captured by a French priVateer and re-captured was libelled as enemy's property and prize-of war. She was
condmned to the Court below. Tihe sentence was reversel on app,,al, but as it was neutral property re-captured, the lords of appeal referred it to their surro.ptaes to,
decide whethet'r ny and what salva.e was dte,'%with provisions for executing their decree. The surrogates decided that nq salvage was due ; but it is clear that ifit
had been a case f'ox salvage, the restitlition, on this revercondemnation, would have only
sal of the sentence 'if
been on payment of it. It is unnecessary to discuss the
argaments drawn fr,lm oir difterent and totally inapplicable modes of proceeding under our municipal code.
And I s.hall ojnly. a'ld that if the objection taken to this
mode of proceeding should be sustained, as the error,
though fallen into, after much consideration, arose from
want of sufficient lighlt and inIrnmation in ur books, it
1. hoped that the o'port,,nity will be afforded to the salvors of instituti dg such proceedings as may bethought
adapted to their case.

There. is a matter about which the counsel for th
Claimants have fallen into a mistake : they state the U.

FEBRUARY TERM ISiS.

275

bellants to'have appealed from that part of the decree TiE
which restores the ship on p.ynient of a ijniety of the scnoOEa
valtiv for the salvage. Ther is fin such decree on the ADILINE.
record. The restoration of the vessel on paying a moiety for salvoge was agreed to by all parties. afid therefore has in fact never been decreed at all and never has
been disputed. If the vessel were understood to be included in the words of the decree, ",American pr.,pert),"
we should indeed have ample grounds of appeal ; for the
salvage ordered would be only one sixti.. That, however,
is not the case, 'and nothing is brought before this .burt,
but the questions relating to the re-capturt d goods. The
same answer applies to the mistake, that Nie have appealed from the decree of the Court ri'fusing us stdvage
on the freight. There is no such decree afid %%
c ntever
asked it, as our libel shews..though the case of the .Uorthy Foster, 6 Rob. Eng. Ed. 88, slhews we are entitled to
-it. No question of freight was ever presented in this
case, but by the claim of Al,'xanuer Cranston (for the
hip owners,) of-freight for the goods not claimed by
him for them; meaning to make our salvage on the goods
pay, a proportion of it, and so diminish its amount. That
was not adjudged, and of course we have not appealMd;
though if it had been decreed, we certainly shot Id; for
it could be supported by no principle, and would be di.
r4ectly conutiry to the act of congress.
These questions being out of the way, nothing more
remains but to consider what is to be the fate of the recaptured goods which have been claimed, with the incidental consideration of costs and expenses. Part of this
property has been claimed, and sworn to, only as belonging to the alleged owners before andat tle tiie of capture,
without saying any thing as to its ownership ut the time
of kipuzent. On this insufficient mode of claiming and
its consequiences I shall add nnting to Mr. Woodwards
ar.g iment except a reply to Mr. Ogden's observation,
that there is no reas,,n why snch transfers it transitu between belligerent friends should be prevented. This very
case shews otherwise; for if the property continued
French, it would be subiect to condeuination as enemy's
property and prize of war; ;hich belligerent right
would be defeated by such a transfer.
I shall endeavour to simplify the discussion by first

SIYPREME COURT U. S.
colisidering the great general division of French prbpeiTim
.SCH6ONER ty, and of American property re-captured ; and will oflA,)BLINE.

.-

deavour to class the doubtful cases under ohe or other of
those heads.
As to the French prop.rty, it clearly must be judged
upon according to the rule of reciprocity. In France,
Am rican belligerent property .which had been 2n hours,
in the possession of the enemy captors would be treated
and,'bonsidered as their property, and not restored on
sa-lvage. The law of 24a hours possession has in truth
been always the rule adopted by France and Spain, and

mlst it not all the powers on the continent; for altlough
they may desire a decree of condemnation, they desire it
only as the most portabie and compendious proof of the

facts (inbluding 21 hours possession) from which the ti-

tle has accrued. They do not regard the decree as cre4tingjpa title to the property, which doctrineis in truth only confined to England and this country ; and was not
held even by this coantry during the revolutionary war.
France has aJso made an ordinance on that subject. which
276, and of which this Court
is to be found in !ZSti,
must well be held to have judieial knowledge; for the
prize Court, to'which it has succeeded, has recognized
it in the case of .filler 4-at. Appellants v. ship Resoli lian,
2 Dallas, 21. TI at tjiis was the law of France down to
and long after thW revolution, has not been doubted ; and
indeed cannot; fo~r Azuni's work was published after
18o3, (Vd. 2 Azuni. 218,) but it is thought possible that
it may have beei subsequently altered ; antd from the pretended ignorance on that subject, a claim for restoration
on American salvage is made. The claim is Isingular;
for it is predicafed not on the rights of the parties, but
on the supposrd ignorance of the Court. It is not sanctioned by the words of the act of Oarch sd, 1800. (§3, Tol.
5, p. 38.) hich provides that " where no such law or
usage shall he known." the same salvage shall be allowed as is provided by the 1st section of that act. That
mnans, where no such law or usage shall be made known
or promulgated or acted upon. It refers to eases in
which, on enquiry, a state shall not be found to have
adopted any precise lav or usage on.ths' subject; but it
founds no right to a suitor, on supposed judicial igpnorance. The ordinance of1.779 i;, Ioweyera known law,
ntd it must be considered as valid until those who insin-

FEBRUARY TERM I85.

277

uate its abrogation give s me proof of their asserttofi. Tnm
The onus is N%
ith theni, an(I the'ueans of piroof, coming sclonNEU
from their own ouniry, are certainly within their power. ALL32IN.
I Rob. .m. Ed. pi. 56, 57. The presumption ai Well 'as
the fact, therefifre. is that there has been no variation or
abrogation ofthe ordinance of 1779.

The ymoperty of Anmerican citiens resident in France
must, as I conceive, u( considi reil as French, and subject to the samC rule. This effect of domicil or natiinal
character is product d inevery (asl Nhere that chaiicter is .Judged of '°erely by'the law of nations. Birth,
by 'the municipal labs of many coantries, is considt-red
as fixing an indelible national character ; but that doctrin6 seenis etirehl dependl.nt on municipal law, and is
n-it to be found in the writ'rs on the law of natiodfs.
]Birth, with them, affords a prina facie presumption of
residence, and serves to establish it where other facts
are equivn".al or silent ; ancl in that sense sir W. hcott
must be understood, when lie sa)s, in the c.ise of'La
Virginie, 5, Rob. 98. 99, -,that the native ciatcter ca" sily rrverts, and that it requires fewer circumstances to
c constitute domicil in the case of a native subject than
cto impress the national*character on one who is oricgginally" of another coutry." But birth ceases to afford eviilence-of the nationd character under the law oE
natiofis. when ofpposed to a clear residence, animo7nanendi, in another country ; for, says sir William Scott, in
the Italian Chie, 3 Rob. Am.ed. 23, ",no position is more
"c established than this. that if a persoir goes into ano"tfIer country', and engages in trade; and resides there, he
" is by the law of natiofis to he considered as a mer"ichant ofthat country." In some of tlesecas6e (the particulars of which I shall hereafter point out) it may perlhaps be contended that, although the owner of the property appears to be.resident in France, the permanency
of his residence or the aniinus.inauendi does not ap:pear; but to that I again answer in the words of sir
Win. Scott, in the case of th Bernon, I Rob. Jim. cd. 87,
-88. "wherever it appears that the purchaser was in
"cFrance, lie must explain the circumstances of his
" residence there: the presumption arising from his
" resi!ence is, that he is there animo manendi, and it
"lies on him to explain it." For everi purposeltherefore, either of commerce or of war, to be decided upon

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
SCHOONER
ADELINE.

-

solely Dy the law of n.-tions, these American citizens
resident in Franre must be regarded as 1repi himen.
ith respoct to sidhage' they
But it, is conend d thua x%
are protected by the wofils used in the act of conigress
of March 3d, 1800. § t, vol. 5;1i. 38, ",any pets, i or
,, persons resident within or under tie protection of the
United States ;" which last expression, it is said, necessarily includes American citizens every where. I' tlhis
wab * the intention of the legislature, it is very singular
that.it did not simply say - any citizen of the ULited
.# States, or any person or persons resident thereto."
It seems to me, however, that the word resident % iO, is
expressed in the first, is understood in the second men ber
of tie sentence ; and that it should be read " any person
• or persons resident within, or resident under the procc tecti,,n of the United States." An inhabitant ofone of
tbe territories comes %,ithinthe last but not the firet
description-so does a consul or other public minisle
%'hohas not by habitual commerce andi residence acquired anotlier national character.. Other instaners of
y'csidenceunder.the protection of the United States might
be produced :hut an American who has changed H'is national character, and.beiome, for every purpose of war
and commtrce, a miember of another community, can
no long-r be regarded .as under the protection f the
United States. I wit at a loss to see how America
could aflbrd protection to him. ir she were neutral,
and the country of his residence belligerent, wduld his
commercc, from that country be under her protection ?
The laws relating to re-capture and salvage were made
with a view to America's being belig'r'nt, and must
be construed in relation to that state or things : In that
state, doe3 she Jr chn she afird any protection t,0 a mcrr.hant residing abroad, whose protection and character
must exclusively depend on the hostility or neuti'ality of
the country to whiclihe belongs as a permanent member? The interpretation put upon this phrase by Mr.
0gdcn would make th,' first and third sections of the
act of.larch 3d, 1800, at variance with each othrfi
and
the same person subject to two inconsistent measures :
for unqtrestionably such an American permanently resident. in a foreign friendly country comes undher The
description of a ",person permanently resident within
ci the territo.ry and under the protection of a foreigq,
cc prince," &c.

FEBRUARY TERTA.is81.
TIM
Theffth sectio ofthe ac! of June, 1812, cannotexplain
the antecedent law of M/arch, ±800; for it is obviously scnotuvnn
inadvertently worded, and nut int..nded fMr any purpose ADtILNE..
of explaining, altering, or affecting that law. If the
mistaken substitution of the word anl for or could have
any effect, it would be only to shew that no person residing out of the United States in a constlar or public
capacity could be d&emed under their protertiin, The
truth, however, is, that the last act contemplates nothing more than to place re-raptures by privatt armed
ships, on the same footing with those made by public
vessels of war; ana it acomplishes that by a very loose
phraseology.

If I am well founded in the fore.going arguments, jt
will folloW that the decrees of the Courts below respecting French property and that of all the residents in
Francf,, whether native Auericans or not, should be
affirmed ; and (if costs and expenses ire to be at all given in this case) with both.
I shall now consider the question as to clear American goods re'naptured. The Adeline was a private vessel of war, havingalettdr of marque; and, when hn theI p)s-.

session of the English, she fought with and made rcsistance to the privateer Expediti6n. There can, therefore, be no qu stion bit that the salvagt' of the vessel
itself must be one half. The Claimants, hn wever, contend that such a rate of salvage only ext .nds to tbto vessl ; but- that goods re-captured on board of even arn
armed and commissioned vessel imtist be restored on
paying one sixth; that being the. rate sperified in the
act of Jarch 3d, 1800 : and in support of this opinion
several rules for the construction 'f statutes hav,, bean
cited. It is :my duty, and I trust I shall do it sccessfmmlly, to maintain the opposite doctrine. In order to do sop
IVshall observ.' tait salvage fins, in every country and iW
every code of laws, been considered as a matter of ge.
neral average: the service is an act done fr the con
mon bsnefit, and to be recompensed by conmmdn and proportionatecontributions. Ye;sel an:l cargo always contribute expressly; fright, in some rases, expessly; in
others, really but less obviously, where tike salvors receive their proportion of the varg) or its value without

paying freight. If the act of 3d .1farch, 1800, meant to

280
THA
SCHOONER
ADELINE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

break iii upon this established principle of proportionate
contribution for a common benefit, it -is withtpuL preccdent in any other code; and an unreasonable d6par
turefvurn an universal usage'founded' on justicb and
common utility. Such a supposition should not be indulged in; and it is indeed fully contradicted by the
second section of the same law ; for there, regulating the
salvage tn the re-capture of a public armed vessel, it
enacts that for the re-capture of a public armed vessel
or any goods therein, one moiety of the true value thereof
shall be pard. No satisfactory reason has been or can
be assigned why the United States should be obliged to
pay differently and in a greaterpproportion for the, bonefit of re-capture than private individuals deriving equal
advantage from the act. This second section of the act
naturally presents the qtfestion, how it.happoned that
the legislature omitted to mention expressly in the first
section, goods on board such arined vessel ? I think I
can answer it. The first section is copied from the English statutes on the same sii! iect. varying the proportion ofsalv.age, and with one ad(lit on the operation and
force of which, perhaps was notstillirien.ly adverted to at
the time. Statutes of t, G. 2, c. 4.-17, G. 2, c. 3.G.-.6,
0. 3, c. 5, . 33. G. 3, c. 66. Thoy
-9, G. 2, c. 3
ive one eighth for salvago of vessel and goods, but enact,
t!mat if the re-captured vessel shall have been set forth
as a vessel of wvar during its possession by the nemty, the
salvage for the vessel shall be one hall. Here the principlh ofproportion'atiC contribution Ftir a common benefit
was not departed fr',m; for to st the v:ssel out for war,
it must have been condtcted into po!'t, and, of course,
the cargo-which it carried at the time of capture discharged, and the conneioin between them 'brokon ; the
goods which sich a vessel mi.ght have on boaard when
re-captured would be enemy's property. and condemned as prize of wal'. The British acts, therefore, made
no mention of such goods, fhey not bing a fit subject
for restoration on salvage.
Congress, in preparing
their system, although they adhered to the pbraseology
ol the English code, thomught 'that the same service was
rendered by cal)turing an ai.,ned vessel, whether ii'
was originally fitt'd for war by Americanq or their endinies, and therer. ore/ awas'ded 'ah eqnal compensation in
both cgses ; but perhaps lhey did not advert to the fact,
that, in the new case which they were. introdncinmg, rb.

FEBRUARY TERM 18IM.
#aptured.goods would have to be restored, and they
%M
therefore adopted the language of the Brztish laus witi, s, atoo0oE
out inserting a' provision to meet a situation of Loogs AiD.LINL.
that could not exist under them. Or else, considt1,1
the character of average: c',nribudon as necebsariiy
fixed on salvage iy universal usage, and equal justice,
they thought it unne. esary to do more than setth die
rate. of contribution; and tue state or the vessel being
the circumstance. that was to affi-ct that rate, th) spoke
of it alone ; but conceived and intended that a proportionate contribution from eve-ry thing counected %,ithit
in danger and benefit conurred, wold follow as an incident. If the first suppositdn be true, tlie awarding of
*salvage for the re-rapturet) goods on board an armed
ves~cl is a casus omissus ; and th least wi can be warranted in saying is, tat it is in the dIiscretion of tho
Court to settle that rate. If it be, I trust it will be settled by analogy to the rule made in the act itself, and so
as to preserve the harmonyif the whole system. If the
second supposition be correct, then the NN
orl 'vessel usust
be consijiered with a lihe'ral interpretation, as also including all on board of it. And in support of such an
interpretation, calculated tio preserve received and established usage against a literal meaning, I ma) refer
to the opinion of the Cour. as delivered in the case of
Talbotv. Seaman, i, Cranch, 1.. There the Court had
occasion to consider the meaning of the expression
-'any nation in amity with the United States" us:d in
the act of .arch 24 1799, reating also to re-captures
from the enemy : the counsel for the captors contg'nded
thatthe words of"this law gave salvage on the re-capture
of .neutral property : founding themselves, like our adversaries, on the literal extent of the expression. On
which the Court observe'i-, Crnch, 4s, "' Th6 words
C; of the act would certainly admit of thii constraction.
" Against it, i has been urged, and we think w ith great
"6force, that the laws of the United States ought not, if
-it be a ,oidable. so to be construed as to- infract the
,, common principles and ,:sages of nations- or the gene4
•ral doctrines of national law.,' The impossibility or
having.access to authorities, prevents my citing mamy
instances of statut.s similarly construed, which I iavc
no doubt could be easily furnished. The following however happentobe within mylnwer-Plovd. 3 6. Zochm v.
Sowdl, ,. a thing which iswithin theintentionorthe ma-

VOL. IX. -

36

282

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Tun
c kers ofthd statutep is as much within the statute, as if it
SOCo1,1ER " were within the letter." In FAJsto n v. Stltdd, Plow. 6',
ADBLINE. that equitabe constructin which .-nlarges the letter of a
statute is titus definedo, "s.Jquitasest verborumlegisdirectio
cc efficatius cam una res sotlummodo legis cavetur verbis Ut
"ontais aliaiwqualigenere-eisdenctiveatur verbis." And
there the remedy given by the 9, B. 3, c. 3, against executors, it is sai l, has be.n always rxtend.'d by an equitable construction to administrators; because they are
within the oquity of the sta'tute. Platt v. the sheriff of
London, Plowd. 36, the words of the 13, E. 1, are, cr16 cuirspect agatis de negdtiis tangentibirs Episcapimn
t6Vorwicensein ;" yet this statute, although only the
bishop of Norwich be named, has been always extended,
by an equitable construction, to other bishops.
Some of the claims in this can .scare for property
owned by aliens resident in the United States. Where
that residence is n it clearly anade )ut to be permanent,
the Claimants must take the consiquenco of the iitutilciency of their clains and proofs. They are all Frenchmen. and if they' have .ot.shown a sufficient domicil to
obtain for them the :An,'rica. national character, they
must be consileeed as Fretchmen and abido the reciprocity resulting I'r:un their law. Where they are clearly
p~rsnanent reside:tis within the United States, they will
be entitl'd to t benefit of that character, if my reasbning as to Americans doniciled in France be corrcct,
if it be not, they must s:al'er under the rule the Court
will th..n lay down and be regarded as Frenchmen.
It only remains fr me now to say a few words of
costs and expensl-s which are asked for by the (laimants. This case is brought before this Court by their
voluntary act anti a clear consent, without which it could
not have been presented on appeal. The district jidgo
declared the principles lie would adopt fAr his decision;
but, strictly spi.aking, he made no decree on the case of
any iwdivi'lual Claimants Those principles were considered in some respects errone,,us by the c'mnisol for
the captors, and in other,'. by thuse for the Claimants.
It was theretore considered better to bring all the prinSupreme Court, as the oxciples in review before tine
at all inc'reased by so doing; and
pence would be little if"
if any Claimaut had Lt.en unwilliug to becomewa party

FEBRUARY TERM i8si.
to this arrange-ment, he might have withhbeld his consent;

TIl

and his case cutld not have been brought up on appea l , st ii o(?NE
till a decree had be;en made on his individual claim. I ADELINE.
submit that it is therefore now too late for him to talk of
-.costs and expenses; and in truth impossible to ascer-tain what propqrtion of costs or expqnss he can sustain.

M~arch iOth.
STO Y,

-Ibsent....TODD, J.

T. delivered the opinion of the Court as

follows:
TheAmerican letterof marque, schooner Adeline, with
a valuable cargo bn board, was captured on her voyage
from Bordeaux to New York, on or about the 11th of
March, 181-, by a British squadron; and, on or about
the 19th of the same month, was re-captured by the
Arin rican privateer, Expedition, James Clayton, comma..der, and brought into New York for adjudication.
Prize prceedings were immediately instituted against
the v,.ssel and cargo as enemy property ; and various
claims were interposed in behalf of American and French
merchants. Upon the hearing of the cause, the district
Cdurt decreed a restoraion of all the property of American citizens and other persons resident in the United
States, upon the payment of one sixth of the value as
salvage, and condemnr d all the property of French subjects aihd of American citizens domiciled in France, and
of all others whose re§idence remained unecxplained, as
good and lawful prize to the captors. From the former
part of the decree the captors appealed, and from the
latter part the Claimants appealed to the. Circuit Court;
and from an affirmance proforma of the decree in that
Court, the parties have appealed to this Court. It does
not appear in thd record that any decree was pronounced in respect to the vessel; and it is therefore pr,%bable, as intimated by counsel, that she has been restored
on a compromise between the parties interested.
Before we proceed to the consideration of the principal questions which have been argued, it will be proper to notice several objections to the regularity of the
allegations, proceedings and proofs in the cause.
It isp in the first place, asserted, on behalf of the Cla-

29411

,StPREME COURT U. S..

Tnr,, mantsp that if this should turif out not to he a case of
00MONER enemy property, but of salvage merely, (as most cerADELINE. tainly as to some of the claims it must be held to be) the
re-captors can take nothing by the present libel, because
it proctteds upon the mere fo6ting of the property being
prize of war. And it is likened to the case of a declaration at common law, where the party can only recover
setnundum allegata et probata; and if no count hit the
precise case, the party must be non-suited.
If, indeed, there were any thing in this objectipn, it
cannot, ii; any beneficial manner, avail the Claimants.
The most that could result would be that the cause would
b- remand~d to the Circuit Court with directions to allow an amendment of the libel. Where merits clearly
appeair ont te record, it is the settled practice, in admiralty, proceedings, not to dismiss the libel, but to -allow
the party to assr.tl his rights in a new allegation. This
practice so consonant with equity and sound principle,
has been deliberately 'adopted by this Court on former
occasions. After all, therefore, the Claimants would,
in the language of an eminent civilian, but change postures on an u neasy bed.
But we are all of opinion that there is nothing in tbi
ojection. No proceedings can be more unlike than
those in the Courts of common law and in the admiralty.
In prize causes, in an especial manner the allegations,
the proofs and the proceedings are, in general, modelled
upon the civil law, with such additions and alterations
as the practice of nations and the right,; of belligerents
and neutrals unavoidably impose. The Court of prize
is emphatically a Court of the ]aw of nations; and it
takes neither its character nor its rules froii the mere
municipal regulations of any country.
In cases of mere civil salvage, it may be fit and proper that the lihel should distinctly allege and claim salvage,
though we d6 tont mean to assert that, even in such
cases, it is indispensable. In casps of military salvage,
also, the party may. i:'he please, adopt 'a similar proceeding. But it is by no means necessary, and, in most
cases, would b ."ihly inexpedient. Re.captures are
eimphatically cases of prize ; for the definition of prize
goods is, that they are goods taken on the high sea,

FEBRUARY TERM iSM.
TH[E
jure belli, but of the hands of the enemy. Whtmn so ta'ken, the captors have an undoubted right to proceed scuoo.agiinst thein as belligerent property in a Court of prizei A.ELUM.
for in no other way, and in no other Court can the questions presented on a capture jure beli. be properly or
effectually examined. The very circumstancq tIhat it is
found in the possession of the enemy, affords pritnafacie
evidefice that it is his property. It may have previously
posses:ed a neutral or friendly character; but if the
property has been changed by a sentence. of condemnation, or by such possession as nations recognize as firm
and effectual, the neutral or friendjy owuei i-forever
ousted of his right.

It depends altogether upon future proceedings ; upon
theexaminations taken in preparatory and the ducuments
on board; upon the verity of the claims, and the diligencd and good faith of the Claimants; and upon the
principles of international law, comity and rcciprocity,
whether a restoration can be decreed or not. How cau
these questions be decIded, unless the customary proceedings 6f prize are instituted and enforced ? How can
it be known. whether all the documents on board be not
colorable and false, or whether the couduct of the Claimant be not unneutral or fraudulent, unless the truth is
drawn from the parties intrusted with the property for
the voyage, by the trying force of the standing interrdgatories and the test affidavits ? The very case before us
present a strong illustration of the propriety of these
proceedings. There is" a large shipment on board,
which, on the bill of lading, purports to be the property
of an American Claimant; yet the Claimant himself
expressly swears that it is thesole property of the French.
shipper. What the consequences are of that fact will be
presently seen,
The Court, then, has a legitimate jurisdiction over
the property as'prize; and, having it, will exert its au-'
thority over all the incidents. It will decrea a restora.
tion of the whole op- of a part; it will decree it absolutely, Dr burthened with salvage, as the circumstances of
the case uiay require: and whether the salvage be held
a portion of the thing itself, or a mere lien upon it,
or a condition annexed to its restitution, it is an
incident to the principal question of prize, and within

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TH 121

SCHOONER
ADB9.INk.

the scope of the regular prize allegation.

If, tlere.
fore, the case stood upon principle alone. we should
not doubt as to the sufficiency of the libel for this lai.pose ; but it has, also. the clear support of the pra:tice
Of the admiralty. The Xquila, I Rob. 37. The Franklin,
B1ob. 1,7. Vicke Jonge Liambert, 5 Ro&. 54!, note.
Another objection urged on behalf of the captors, is
to the sufficiericy ol'the claimis and test affidavits. It is
asserted, and truly, that the goods are not alleged, in
the claim or Affidavitb;, to have belonged to the. Cliaimants
at the time of shipment'; it is only alleged that they so
belonged at the time ef capture. Regularly the test affidavit should state, that the property, at the time of shipment and also at'ht
time of capture, did belong. and
will, if restored, belong to the Claimant; but an irregularity of thip nature has never been supposed to be
fatal. It thight, in a case of doubt or suspicion, or in a
case calling for the application of the doctrine as to the
legal effivct of changes of proper-ty in transitu, have jus,
tiffed an order for further proof: or, in'cases of gross
negligence or pregnant fraud, have drawn upon the party more 9eve.re consequences. But in ordinary cases, it
is not deemed to work any serious consequences : in this
instance, it p'robably passed unnoticed in the Courts below, where if the blot had been hit, it might have been
instantaneously removed by an amendment. Another
irregularity undoubtedly was, that the. t st affidavits
were put in, on behalf of many of the Claimants, by their
agents. althougi the principals were resident in the U.
States, and within the reasonable reach of tlje Court.
Where the principal is without the, country, or resides
at a great distance from the' Court, th admission of a
claim and test affidavif by his agent, is the com on
corns of,.'the admiralty. But where the principat is
within a easonable distance, something more than a
formal affidavit by his agent is expected. At least the
s.uppletory otthIof the. principal as to the facts, should bo
tendered ; f r otherwiso its absence might produce unlavorable suspicions. It,indeed, the principal might always withdraw himself from the view of the Court, and
shelter his pretensions behind the affidavit of an innocent
or i.gnorant agent, there would be no end to the impositions practised upon the Court. The Court expects, in
proper cases, something more than the mere formal test

FEBRUARY TERAI i815.
affidavit of an agenty who may swear, truly, and yet, TEm
from his want of knowledge, be the dupe of cunuinlk and scnoo.q=
fraud. It is iot meant to assert that any such imputa- A.UML[Y.
tions belong to the pros -nt case. Chin irregulai-ity, like
the former, probably passed in silence; and it would
-be highly.in.u 'ious if an obje-tion of this'sortshould now
prevail, when all parties have hitherto acquiesced in its
immateriality.
We are now led to the principal question in this
cause; viz. what rate of salvage is to be allowed ta the
re-captors? This depends upon trie true corsttrouion of
the salvage act of congress of 3d of"March, 1800, ch. i4.
That act provides, that, upon the re-capture of any vessel; (other than a vessel of war, or privateer,' or of
any goods belonging to any pesons resident within or
under the prote6tion of the United States, the same,
if re-captured b, aprivate vessel of the U. States, shall be
restored on payment of onesixth part of the value of the
vessel or goods ; and if the. vessel, so re-captured, shall
app-ar to have been set forth and armed as a vessel or
war, bef-are such capture, or afterwards, then upon a
salvage of one half of the true value ofsuch vessel of
war.-

. It is argued, in behalf of the re-captors, that the Ade&
line being an armed vessel, they are entitled to a moiety
of the value of the cargo as well as of the vissel; either
upon an eq iitable construction of the statute, or upoh
general principles, as a case not within the purview tif
the statute.
We are all, howvever, of a dtferent opinion. The statute is expressed in clear and unambiguous terms. It
does not give the salvage of one sixth part of the value
upon goos, the cargo of an unarmed vessel; but it gives
it upon any goods re-captured, -without any reference to
the vehicle or vessel in which they are. found. We cannot interpose a limitation or qualification upnn the terms
whii the legislature has not itself imposed ; and if
there be ground for higher salvyge in cases of armedwessels, either upon public policy or principle, such considerations mlsthb addraqsed with effect to another tribunal. This decision allirins the decree of the Circuit
Court as to the claus of all the parties domicilel irr the
United States.

28a
TUE
SCHOONER
4DELITN .

SUPREAIM COURT U. S;

As tq the claims of the parties domiciled in Francei
whethtr natives or Afneicans, or other foreigners, their
rights depend altogether upon the law of France us to
re-captures ; for by fthe act of congress, as well as by
the general law, in cases of re-capture, the rule of reci-

procity is to be applied.

If France would restore -n a

like case, then are we bound to restove ; if otherwise,
then th'6 whole property must be condemned tothe re-captors. It appears that by the law of France in cases of
re-capture, after the property has been 24 hours in possession of the enemy, the whole property is adjudged
hether it belonged to her
good prize to the re-captors, %%
subjects, to her allies, or to neutrals. We are bound,
therefore, in this case, to apply the same rule ; and au
the property in Ais case was re-captured after it had
been inpossession of the enemy more than 24 hours, it
must, so far as itbelonged to pel'sons domicild in France,
be'condeknned to the captois ; and.the decree of the Circuit Court as to them must be affirmed.
As to the claims of the other persons whoso national
chai'acter and proprietary interest do not distinctly appear, considering all the circumstances; we shall direct
farther'proof to be made on both points. As,indeed, the
mhaster has not been able to swear directly to'the proprietary interest of the cargo, but simply says that the
goods were, as he presumes and believes, the property
of the shippeis or the consignees, perhaps, in strictness,
farther proof might hAve been required in the Courts below as to the whole cargo. It was not, how6ver, moved
fi there by the captors ; and as we are satisfied in rela.
tion to the claims which we shall -'estore, it would be
useless now to mike such a general order.
Up*on these principles, the property embraced in th
claims by and in behalf of Alexis Gardere, of William
lVeaver and Isaac Levis, jointly, and of William Veaver alone, of Andrew Byerly, of George I. lBriwn and
William Hollins) of PeterA. Karthous, of William Bay-.
ard, Haraan Leroy, James MEvers and Isaac Iselm,
Pf William Hood, of Theophilus D' Cost, of John Dubany, of Messrs. John B. F'ossatt &Co. of Edward Smith
Ja'mes Wood and Samuel W. Jon s. (if Victor Ardaill. no
of Lewis Chastant, of Lewis Labat, ofBenjumin Rich; of
Nath'l. Richards, Nayah Taylor and Gustavus Upson of

FEBRUARY TERM 1n1.
Ferdinand Hurxthal; must be restored on payment
Tnp,
of the salvage of one, sixth part of the value. The pro- scjiHoNBr
pert - embraced in the claims on behalf of P ter Bou, AIDELME1.
junr. of R. Henry, of P. Doussault, of William Johnston and James Dowling, of G. Brousse, must b condemned to the captors.
The remaining claims must stand for farther proof.
And as to the property umwlaimed, it must be condemned
as good and lawful prize to the captors.
The decree of the Circuit Court is to be reformed so
&sto be in conformity with this decision.

THE BRIG ANN$

M'CLIN,

185.

USTERU.
_

ar6 It-.-

+qhse t....ToDD, J.

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court byr
If aa d0-'w
lecXt'r,
for the district of Connecticut, which revered that ofi. a ,tono
the District Court, and restored the property to the of thtrunyeau

Claimant.
STORY,
lows:

Statts be vo-

. deliverbd the opinion of the Court as .fU1-

lut uuily abanthe
ion,.uIl
psmprc-y re-rq broo
the lIfl
or in-

This is an information against twelve raks of mrer- diUo.
chandize, part of the cargo of the brig Ann. alleged to d the t-.
have been imported or put on board with aiu intent' to "'et Ccurt hbe imported contrary to the non-impiortation act of-ist orthe Came
March, 809, ch. 91, 5.
It appears from the evidence that the Ann sailed from
Liverpool for New York in July, 1812, having nn board
a cargo of British merchandize. She was seized by a
revenue cutter of the United State., on her passago
towards New, York, while in Lung Island Sound, about
midway between Long Island and Falkland Tslan:l. and
eairied inirn the port of New Haven about the 7th of
October, 1812, and immediately taken possessiob of by
VOL. -IX.
8.7

