120

SUPREME COURT U. S.

AE&ovi
from its passage; and It is a 'general rule that where
oTi'EiRs the computation is to be madefrom an act done, the. day

IV.

on which the act is done is to be included.

U.STATES.

It is further contended that the importation was complete by the arrival of the vessel within the jurisdictional
limits of the United States, on the thirtieth day of June.
We have no difficuity in overruling this argument. To
constitute an importation so as.to attach the right to du.
ties, it is necessary not only that there should be an arrival within the limits of the United States, and of a
collection distict but also within the limits'of some port
of entry. Thig was expressly decided in the case of tho
United State6 v. Vowell, 6 Cranch, 368.
Without therefore adverting to the consideration of
the regularity or sufficiency of the pleadinA we are all
of opinion that on the merits the judgment must be -affirmed.
Judgmen.t affirmed "withsixper cent. damages and cbsts.

THE ST. LAWRENCE, W BB,

1815.
b.

MASTEU.

(, f'Gregor and Penniman Claimants.)

god,

Absent....TODD, ..
It; upon the ,

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Courf
district of New Hampshire, condemning the ship

breakingotof fr the

awarwith
this ecp
St. Lawrcfice
country, our
e ti
uers
except those

and cargo. All the claims' in this case,
of .!iGregor and Penninian for certain
tith- parts of the cargo, were settled at the last term, v-1

right to
draw their
property frot
the eneny's
enuatry, it
mnust be done

within a
sonable
Eleven

No further proof laving been produced, the case was

.. submitted to the Court without argument.

time.

,ionthis arter
thiC lecla'atzotl
of war is too

lat,

with regard to these further proof was ordered.
r

February25th. aqbsent....ToDD, .
SToRY, J. delivered the opinion of the Court Lq follows:

FEBRUARY TERI 1815.

121

The only, claims in this case now remaining for the Tim
tonsidera~tion of the Court, are those of Mr. Penniman sT. LAWand 1,Gregor. 'Further proof wa.n- diricted, at tholast nEEcE,
term, to be made in respect to those claims; and no ad- wEBB,
ditional evidence laving bcen produced, beyond that mASTER.
which was then disclosed to the Court, the causes have
been submitted for a final decision.
. respect to the claim of Mr. Penniman,
the evidence is very strong that the goods were purchased
some time before the war, by his agent in Great Britain, on his sole account. They were not, however,
shipped for the United States until the latter ]kart of
lay, 1815.

It is not the intention of the Court to express any
opinion as to the right of an American citizen, on the
breaking out Gf hostilities, to withdraw his property
purchased before the war, from an enemy country. Admitting. such right to exist, it is necessary that it should
be exercised with due diligence, and within a reasonable time 9fter the knowledge of hostilities. To admit a
citizen to withdraw property from an enemy country,
a long. time after the war, under the pretence of its
'having been purchased before the war, would lead to
the most injurious consequences, and hold out strong
temptations to every species of- fraudulent and illegal
traffic with the enemy. To such an unlimited extent
we are all satisfied that the right cannot exist. The
present shipment was nt made until more than eleven
months had elapsed after war was declared; and we
are all of opinion that it was then too late for the party
to make the shipment, so as to exempt him from the
penalty attached to an illegal traffic with the enemy.
The consequence is, that the property of Mr. Penniman
must be condemned.
And this decision is fatal, also, to the claim of Mr.
_McGregor. Independent, indeed, of this principlc
there are many circumstances in the case unfavorable
to the latter gentleman. In the first place, it is not
pretended that the goods included in his claim were
purchased before the war. In the next place, he was
the projector of the present voyage, and became, as to
one moiety, the charterer or purchaser of the ship.
VOL. IX.
16

SUPIEME COURT U. S
ST.LAW-

Nearly all the cargo consisted of goods belonging (as
it must .now be deemedl) exclusively to British mer'

nENcf.,

chants.

!M~z
wEBE,
tST=.

He was, thei:fore, engaged in an illegal traf

fic of the most noxious nature; a traffic not only prohibited by the law of war y but by th municipal regulations of hiq adopted country. His *whole property,
therefore, embarl~ed in such ai enterpitize, must alike
be infected with the taint of forfeiture.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, thereforey
as to thew claims, be affirmed with costs.

18M.
Feu.

DRU0MIMON D'S

ADMmisT1gATons

V.,

oth.

MAGRUDER & Co's. ThusnPzs.

Absent....LIviiiGsToe,

J.

Smi0Rr, J. and

TODD, J

THIS was an appeal from the decree of tho Circuit

Yfthe
a.~
tion of exe.

Court for the- Yirgitia district, in a suit',in chancery

tohant
oan brought Sy the trustees for the creditors of IV.B. Ma4- Cd. agaiht Drummond's administrators, to
itoftheCom.'grude
be
plainant's,
pl uinttb compel the latter to-account for funds put into the hailtfsby the Deen- of their intestate by W. M. Magruder & Co.
drnt in his an-

swer, who calls
o
u ontheo-

Ths Defendants, in their answer, say they know no.

such lhm or co-lartuersliip as Win. B. ,Magruderck Co.
proof thereof they carmit admit it, and hope the cOmplainants will
Court be put to tile pirnof of it. They have rio knowledge of
in
the this
b~eloir,
pI'ahmt to

the deed of trmsf mentioned hr the bill, and hope the
prese that Complainants will be required to make ample proof
other thereof. That W. B. Magruder was largely in debt to
1
ae thZa ap- their intestate, andthey belie' e the fnds put into his
p-s in the lihnds by' Magruder were intended to be applied to that
transcript of
ebt
the reord.
A copy ofa
tho.
The only proof of the ded.of tx'ust appearing in.
deed
Olerk of the
Court *ihout transcript of the record, was a copy certified by one
ti- cerifiate Gibson, who calls himself clprk of Baltimore county;
of te presdis judge tht without any cqrtificate from the presiding judge that
boWlt VhIn

