FEBRUARY TERM I8tM
the assignment of his own, he had a right to offset it in zk.nD.
V1Ll1
this suit.
"0.

On the otherside it was said that it was immaterial wNiou
by which law the note was to be governed ; ,for it was nmK.
made with a view. expressed on its face, to be dis-ount.ed by the Plaintiffs; whreby the Defendant had wav.d
any offset to which he might have a right. Besides
whih, upon being informed that the note was discounted by the Plaintiffs, be did nnt object, nor insist upon
had funds, (mani-g funls ot
his sett-offo but sad lie.
Nourse's) ti meet it. By which conduct a so he waived
his tlight to the sett-off.
Feb. 9t.
MARSHALL, C&. Z7. delivered the opinion
of the Court as follows:
It is entirely immaterial whether this question be. governed by the lavs of Virginia or of Maryland. By
neither of them can the discounts claimed by tie Plaintiff in error be allowed.
By making a note negotiable in hank, the mpker nifttiorizos the bank to advance on his credit to the owner
of the note the sum expressed otl its face.
It would be a fraud on the bank to sat up olls-Is
against this note in cnsequence of any transactions between the parties. These offsets are Naiv d and cannot, after the note has been discounted, be ag-ain a t up.
The judgment is to be affirmed with damages at the
rate of 6 per cent. per annum.

MEIGS

AxD

AL

-. MCLUNG'S

1815.

LyssEa.
Fe.

11th.

2bsentt... JoEso, J. ik TODD, J.
ERROR to the Circuit Court tor the district of East in the tzrety
Tennesse', in an .ct on of ejectment brought by art esua .
ni theChe.
l'Clung's lessee atgainst Meis and others

SUPREME COURT U. S.
3faS

& AL.

On the trial in the Court below, a bill of exceptiors
was taken, which statcd the case as fllows:

V.

The Plahitiff's lessor claims the lana under a grant
i=ssa,. from the state of N,rth Carolina, to John Do::elson, dated the 11tb of July 1788, for 1500 arres lying on tho
-roke-s, the re- north side of 'Tennessee rivr, opposite to a high bluff of
scrvu~on of~ 3
miies .qur rocks of diverse colors. Tile. Defendants resided on the
for g 'rison, the land as officers, and undr the authority of the Uni31,CLUNG's

te•i States who had a garrison there and had erected.
inoohI of tho works at an CXpenCe of 80,000 dollars. * The place where
- e
"ios
ot bow,
tb,.ve tht

Highwassee, the De)fendants resided was two miles at least above the
wher,. the U.
S. Itae plcd termination of the treaty line opposite the mouth of the
the.garrison. Hlighwassee. In 1805' the line between the United Stites
and the Ch rokee Indians was run, according to thk 11ipaty, under the direction of the Defundant, Meigs, wit was
all agent of the United States for that purpose ; and afterwards theigari'ison reserve ot three square miles was
laid off by the direction of the Defendant, Meigs, opposite
and above the mouth of the Highwassee river, making
tile treaty line from the three forks of Duck river to the
point on Tennessee river opposite the mouth of Highwas,ee the lowerline of said reservation, anti the Tennesseo
river tile southern line, nmeandering the river and reducing it to a straight line of three miles in longth.

The Defendant's read a copy of a letter Written by D.
SmiO, and the D-f ndant, Ieigs. who were commissioners on the part of the Un ited St Ates, at the treaty holden v;it: the Cherokee Indiiaois, on thi 25th of October,
180., dated~at Washington, January 10th, 1806, and addressed to the secretary at war; in which they say ",by the
treaty With the Indians c6ncluded at Tellico on the 25th
day of Oct'4brr, 1805, there was reserved three square
miles 'of land for the particular disposal of the United
States, on tie porth bank of fhe Tennessee, opluosit to
ant below the *Mouthof Highwassee. This reservation
is ostensibly predicated on the supposition that thi, garri.qon at south west point, and the United States factory
now at Tellico, would be placed on th'e reserve dring
the pleasluro of the. United States. Wlit it was stipulated
with Doublehead thmt wl'never the United States should
And this land unnecessary for the purposes mentioned,
then it is to revert to Doublehead; provided, as a condition. that he retain one of the square miles to his own us1p

FEBRUARY TERM imiS.
p~nd that he is to relinquish his right and claim to the
MIos
other two sections ot.one rail square each in favor of & AL.
John D. Chisholm and John Riley, son to Sanuel Ril.y,
V.
one -.
f tn. int, rpreters in the Cherokee nation in equal N!,0LUNIGS
shares.?'

FssE.

As it is proper thaf this be recognized we have made
this statement for ytiur information,
And have the honor to be, &c.
DANIEL SMITH,
RETURN J. MEIGS.
When the Defendant and the other officers of the United States went to look for the place to erect the garrison in pursuance ,fthe reserve, they went first below
the mouth of Highwassee; But it was a low and marshy country, affording no good scite fpr a garrison and
no water or spring was to be had there.
The Plaintiff's counsel insisted- that the Indian title to
the land was extinguished and that he had a right to recover, and prayed the Court so t instruct the jury ; to
which the Defendant's counsel objected and insisted that
the D efendants were entitled to recover against the
Plaintiff, because the Indian title was not extinguished;
and because the land. -as occupied by the United StateW'
troops, and the Defendants as officers of the United
States, for the benefit of the United States, and by their
direction; and hecaus6 the garrison was erected on the
land really reserved for that purpose by the treaty;
as they insisted it was out of the land ceded that '
*eserve was made. That it must, by the letter of tt.,treaty, be understood to be land reserved to the
indians, out of the part ceded, and not a reserve in
favor of the United States, out of the land not
ceded by the Indians; and that the term t reserve' in
the treaty controlled the other expressi, ns, "copposite

" and beloidwthe nouth of WBglvassee." That the United States had a right by the constitution to appropriate
the property of individual citizens; and that the line
run, was the true line of the reservation.
Btithe Court over-ruled the objections of the De'endant's counsel, and charged the ju'ry that the lant reserr.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
. ns

ed 19r a garrison was opposite to and below the mouth

& At.

of the [ighwasee, and that the hnd opposite to and

V.

above was ceded to the Unfted States by th, Indians by

m'cXtulG's the treaty of Tellico, and that tihe United States had no
L.essEr,., right to appropriate the land mentioned in the Plaintiff'Is

declaration. And that the Plaintiff was authorized by
law to recover, if the land rovered by his grant lay opposite to and above the mndi of the Highwassre, That
if iie treaty had expressly reserved the three miles
square for tie dispos.al of the United States opposite and
above the mouth of Highwassee, the Indian title would
be thereby extinguished, as that resere %Vould be north
of the.treaty line. That if the land thus reserved was at
the time vacant land thie United States could appropri.te it as they pleased ; but if it was private ptroporty tilo
United States could not depive the indiyidual of it with.
out m4king him just compensation therefor. And- further, that by the expressions used in thesaid treaty, the
Indign title to all land north of the treaty line, from the
point opposite the mouth of Highwassee to fort Noash,
except such tracts as were expressly reserved for the
Indions, was extinguished; and that the three square
.miles, re~erved for the United States, must, according
to the treaty, be situate opposite and below the mouth of
Highwassee. To this opinion the counsel for the Defendants excepted.
By the 2d art. of the treaty of 25th October 180;.
.(Laws of United States, Tot. 8. p. 192.) " The Chero.
"kee's quit claim and cede to the United Stat,.s. all the
-land which they have heretofore claimed, lying to the
,,north of the following boundary line: beginning at the
"mouth of Duck river. running thence up the main
"stream of the same to. the junction of the fork, at tha
i head. of which fort Nash stood, with the main south
direct course to a point on the. Tenn's.
",fork ; thence -41
"see riy'r bank opposite the mouth of Highwassee riccve"- &c.
After describing the other lines of the cessibn, the trea.
ty proceeds thus, " and whereas, from the present ces"sion made bythe Cherokees, and other cirt unistances,
as the scite of the garrisons at south west point -and Trill" co arebecome not the most convenient and suitable places
"for the accommodation of the Indians, it may become

FEBRUARY TEEIM i815.
"expedient to remove the said garrisons and factory tM Mxios
rsome mroresuitableplace; three other~quareiniles are re- & AL.
V.
61 se-ritfor the particular disposalof the.United States on
- the,-north bank of thp Tenre.isee, opposite to and beoWw M CLUIB
" the, mouth of the Hijhwassee.
LESSL.E ,

C.*1 Ev,,for the Plaitffs in Error.
The points in dispute in this cause are 5tated in the bill
of etceptions. The principal. question is whether the
three miles reserved for the .ise of the United Statcs are.
to lay below or above the mouth of the Highwnassee.
We say that it vas the -intention of the parties that
th.y should lye above.. Theexpression ,,reserved" imports an exceptjon to the cession. The reservation mIust
have been out of the land qeded. The United States
hould, notreseive what was not theirs before; but for
the accommodation of the Indians'they reserve three milk square for the mse of the United States, It was intended'lo prevent. the extinguishment of the Indilin.titte to sb
much in order to preventindividuals frdm pnrchasinit.
The: letter of Smith and Meigs to the secretary of waX
shows that the land wag to revert to Douhlehead and two
others, ;whenever the-l nited Sttes should cease to have
a use for it. It was therefore clearly a reserve, or exceftion from the feneral operation of.the grant. It'
would be inconsistent with the faith of the treaty to s.ur-fer'any individual to i6ssnss it.,

Jons, cmtra,
Relied -upon the. plain wbrds"of the:treaty.
The word "creserve" is the only thing that can justify
a question; but it means :,to appropriate" to ,,'et apartV'
to hold it for the, use.of the U. States, for the pjurpose
of a garrison, but not to make an.absolute grant irceg-.
sion of the. land.' The expression ",three othor square
miles," §hgws ihat they meant other tbanthe land ceded.
I The lette is not eyidence; it is no part of the treaty;
it was never ratified by.the senpte; and Is unimportant
if it .was. It, however, shows that there was Io mistake
in te w6rd.,, beloo" in the treaty.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MEGS

C. LEE, in reply.

& AL.
V.

The word "treserve" was used to keep individualU

MCLUNG's from appropriating to theiselves, the lans stqposeid
Lls5EE. most convenient Ir the mnutual accommodation of the

Indians and the United States.
the word ",retain."

It means the same as

The word " other" is put in opposition to the former
sites of the garrison and factory. It is straining the
word " reserve" very, far to make it mean a new grant.
Does the question arise in this case whether a grant
is good before extinguishment of the Indian title?
C. LEF.
That question does not come up in this case.
STORY, J..
That question has been decided iti the case of FMtcher ,b. Peck.
February 13th.
MARSHAL,

.qbsent....JoHuNso

.

4 ToDD, J.

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows:
The land for which this ejectmeht was brought, lies
withjn the territory ceded to the 'United States by the
state of North Carolina, and was claimed by a patent
anterior to that cessi6n. At the date of the grant, the
Indian title had not been extinguished. On the 2bth day
of October, 180.5, a treaty was mttde betWeen the United
States'and the Cherokee indlian% in which the' ldians
ceded to the United States , all the land lying to the
" rlorth of the following boundary line ; beginning at the
"mouth ofDuck river, running thence upthe main stream
",of the same to the junction of the fork, atthe head of
";which fort Nash stood, with the main south fork';
"thence a direct course to a point on the Teniessre ri, ver bank opposite the mouth of the flighwasseo river.'

FEBRUARY TEMI i8i5.
The question on which the cause has been placed is
this. Is thin land, claimed by tl e Plaintiff in the Court
below, within the ceded territory?

MrL

& AT..
T.
31-CLUNC'S

The line mentioned in the treaty has been run, and LF-SBE.
,
the land in controvers) lies on the porth side of it, and eousequeutly within the limits ceded to the Uno vd States;
but there \as a further stipfnaiamdn in the treaty, which
the Plaintiffs in error say comprehcnds the lauds for
which this suit hs brought.
After dkscribing the ceddd territory, the treaty proceeds to say: --And Whereas from the wi'srent -c'ssion
,1 made by the.Cherokees, and other circunm.Stances, 'the
"scites of the 'garrisuns at South west p tsine Pnd 'lrdico
"9are become not the nwost convenient and 46itahle pla" ces fort e aecommodation of the said Indians, it may
-become expedient to remove the said 4grrisins and
"factory to sotne more suitableplaet," three othrrsquare
miles.are reserved fbr the particular disposal of the United States on the north bank of the. Tennessee opposite.
to and below the mouth of Highwassee.
The.cedea territory lies above the mouth of Highvassep, as does the land in controversy ; yet the Plaidtiffs in error contend that this land Is within the stipulation for a reserve of three square miles to lie below the
mouth of Highwassce.
They' attempt to sustain this proposition by alleging
that the word ,, belnw" was inserted irt thp treaty by
mistake, when the word -9above" was intended.
This mistake ought certainly to be very clearly demoitstrated, before the Courts -of the United 'States can
found upon its existence a jtuogment which shall deprive
a citizen of his property.
. The argument, so far as it is drawn from tne treaty
itself, rests on the word" reserved." It is said that the
lauds - reserved for the particnlar disposal of the Ui.itcd
States," must necessarily be a part of the cedhed territor7, or the term would not aptly express the idea 6f the
parties.
3
VOL. IX.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
M1EIGs

The Court cannot acc'de to this reasoning. The Irea.

& At.
'.

fy is the contract of both parties,, each laviag lands,
The words are tie words of both partits, and .the tezrn
might, without any strained construction, be applied to'
the lands of either. No great violence is doni' to t4o
known inmport of toe term as used in the treaty. if it b6
considered as equivalent to the %oros 4, set apait." This
construction is resdered Iecessary by the Nord 4other.'
"Three other square miles," that is,.other than tloso be.
fore ceded, are reserved for the particular disposal of
the United States. The context, instead of proving that
the word, - below" was used by mistake in-the treaty,
would rather induce the. Court to put thlt construction
on an ambiguous term, had one been employed.

a'CLUNG's

ikpsspE.

..

The counsel for the Plaintiffs in error also rely on a
letter written by-tie commissioners who negotiated the
treaty tQ the secretary of war on tie J0th day of January, 1806. . But, without inquiiin.,, into the weight to
which such a letter is intiled in such a case, it is to be
observed that the letter agrees with the terms, of tho
treaty. It says that the three square miles reserved for
the particular disposal of the U. States, were ",opposite to
and below thie mo,,th of the Highwassee." .It is t1uiecessa,.
ry to make-a farther c6mment on this letter than to say,
that there is no eixpression in it which appears to' the

Court to countenance, in the slightest degree, the idea
that the word ,, below" in the treaty was used by mistake'instead of the word "above."

Tl'e tacts, that the agents of the United States took

possession" of this laud lying above the month of the
buildings thereon, and
expensive
ercid
l a ea garrison
placed
there,
cannot be admitted to give ani
explanati 'n to the treaty, which would "contradict its
plain Words aid -,bvitils meaning. The land is certainIv the pro perty of tie Plaintiff below; and tbe United
Stites cannot have intended to deprive htim of it hy eiolnce, and without coinpnsation. This Court is unanimously and clearly of opinion that the Circuit Court
comn-itted no error in instructing the jury that the In.
dian title was extint4uished to the land in controvorsy,
and that the Plaintiff below might suslaih his action.
The judgment is affirmed with costs.

