FEBRUARY TERM 1816.
SLMIMS -o.GUTHRIE AND AL.

.bSedl....LIv1iGSTON,

I8i

. STORY, J.and TOD, J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of e hlal
at V"4nla,
Kentucky, in a suit in chancery.
whith
rH,
t qfgvplren
The facts of fhe case, as stated by the chief justice in niptia t.
tha--ho ddelivering the opinion of the Court , were as follow:
i.
marked
lacd
proved &eibrtheyear
1778,

Charles Simmq, the. Plaintiff in error, having obtained a judgment -inejectment for certain lands lying in
Kentucky, in possession of the Defendants, for which the time rhm
the said Simms held a patent prior to that under 3hich 'he imP--.
the Defendants claimed,.a bill of injunction was filed by m ,nd t,
them,praying that he might be decreed .to conyey to thetimeoftfio
t
them so much of the land in their possessiun as was in.P
tir rie,Le
eluded within his patent.
the clim for
tuca pre-emp -

it appeared in evidence that, in the year 1776. a corn- ti w IS=
pany, of whom John Ash was one, marked and improv- Wec the

fonk
ed several parcels of land lying on the waters of Salt
river. John Ash made an improvement on the- waters ir a entry bo
of the Town Fork of Salt river, soon after which W11- -z'e by the
. r!,nee olf zi
pti
liam M,Collom, another member of the same company, p
tMb
made an improvement at a spring on th6 same stream, ;htivt
Mr ithh
re"
about seven hundred yards below him. Ash complain- te "
ed that MCollm had encroached on his rights ny ap- theaturbe
ed
"t cntqy,
proaching
proa-un too near him ; -upon which, *they agmed to in the
decide by lot who should be entitled to both improve- irtai entyrtant.,f- -ther
ments. Fortune determined in favor 'of Ash, else.
ran. a
improved
and
rights,
his
relinquished
M Co1lom
iere. Ash afterwards amended both improvements, PnI.vet,
and planted peacli stones at that which was made by place f dehimself.

In April, 1780, before the Court of commissioners

tzibed vith

suffident CarOtvm
Lrfy.i cl

qguL.
at
j5uyd
cera
nbt-incd
Ash
John
law.
title
the
previous
nated
tificate in the following wtvrds: -coqhn Ash, senr. claim- izis not to be
..s
deIre
,ed a pre-emption of i,000 acres of land in the district
"oof Kentucky on account.of marking and impreving =d ,refT,
",the same in the year 1776,'lying on the waters of the it i na nt

appointed in conformity with the act generally denomi-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
6,; Town Fork of Salt river, about'two thiles nearly east
"from Joseph Cox's land, to include his improvem.nt
Satisfactgry proof being made to the Court, they are
"of opinion that the said A.h has a right to a pre-emp,tion of 1,000 acres of land, to include the above luca-

sigts
v.
GUTIHftI,
& AL.

ceary in

s

Court of limited jurisdiction

This certificate was assigned to Terrell.and llawkins,

to ,,ak- othe,
,ntmdution

tion, and that a certificate ilsse accordingly."

) who, in April,- T78,

made the folloflng entry ther'on

toe pa-ties in the surveyor's office' of the county in whicli the lands
61.).1ld "Cate lie: , Terrell ant Hawkins .Rntered 1,000 acres, No.
an dloubt AS to

*

.t

th.jmi~lietion " 1226, on the waters of the ibwn Fork of Salt river,

of the Court 1 abut two miles'nearly east from Joseph Cox's land,
A Complal- " .is...
include
tant in eqwty

his improvement."

.s.s

.

T'is entry was sr

veyed and patented, and the De.'ndawts claim und.r it.

canot ot.

adcree fol The date of this patent was on the 6th of.March,
1786.

has -inked in

Ilk bill.

The entry of Charles Simms was made on the 13th,
of .April, 17: a, his survey on the 25th of the saino
month, and his patent issue'd on the 19th of April, 1783.
The 'laim under an improvement being of soperior
dignity to that of Charhis Simms, hiis title. must yield to
that of the Defendants in error, if theirs be free from
objection.
Th land law of Virginia, under whihi all parties
claim, requires that locations shall be~made so specially
and precisely that other persons may be enabled with
certairity to locate the adjacent residuum.
The sitoation of Kentucky, covered with conflicting
titles to lanrd, has made it necessary that this requisftjon
of tliv law should be enforced with some degree of rigor,
whil, the ignorance of early lorators, the dangers to
wl i'hi they were. exposed, and the. difficulty of deseri.
bin, with absolute precision, lands which were held by
a very slight improvement made on a single spot, and
which civild not be.immediately surveyetd, induced the
Courts 9f that country, for the pprpose of preserving
entries as far as was consistont with law, to frame corA111n general rules Of very extensive application to cases
which occurred. One was, that the designation of any
E artictilar spot of general notoriety, or such a descripton of it ih relation to some place of general notoriety

FEBRUARY TERM?4 i815.
as would clearly point it out to subsequent locators,
would give safficient notice of the place intended to be
appropriated,
lnd
that a failure to describe the external
figure'of the land should be aupphed by placing the improvement in the centre, and drawing round it a square

with the lines to the cardinal points, which should comprehend the quantity claimed by tle location.

The Court below was of opinion that there was suf..
Kcient certainty in the certificate of Sohn Ash, sour.
and in the entry afterwards made with the surveyor by
Terrell ard Hawkins; that the improvement intentled
to be claimed by Ash was that which he won of Al'Collore. and that the land should be surveyed in a square
form with the lines to the cardinal points, icludinq the
improvement won of MCollum in the ceitre. A survey havinjg been made. in conformity with this interlocutory decree, the Court ordered thn Defendant below to
convey severally to the Plaintiffs in that Court so much
-of the land claimed by them as was included in his patent. To this decree Charles Simms has sued out a
writ of error.
SwA.x, for the rPlintiff'in error, contended,
1. That Simms having the first entiy -anti first patent and judgment at law in ejectment, his title must'
prevail.
The entry of Terrell and Hawkins in i7Si cannot be
rconnected with the settlement of Ash. It does npt refer to it, and the want of such reference cannot be aid•ed by any extrinsic evidene. The entry must be in
its,-If sufftiient, or it can avail nothing. Harding's Reports, 108, Patterson's dertsees -o.Bradford.
2. The entry, if it can be connected with the certificate
of the commissioners in favor of Ash, is still void for
uncertainty. There were two settlements by Ash, and
it does not appear to which the coimmissioners alluded;
or if it doos appear to which they alluded, it was to the
first settlement of Aqh, and not to that vhiich was begn by M-C.olloni. H,-hWs's Reports, 1). 95, Flardiin 's
Reports. 110, Graig u. Torrain. The laud ought to have
been sirveyed from Ash' (irst settlement, and not rrotm
that which he won from MiAllun.

sISsI
V.
GUTIIRI

&

AL.

SUPEM$ COURT U. S.
'SIMMS

Joi'I'ns, contra.

-V.

GUTHRM

& AL.

1. The first objection is, that the right of pre-.motion
never bonged to this land, because it is said that
Simms had a prior claim.
But the act only excldes from the ri.ht of pro.emptioh, lands to 'which a k.at title had been acquired prior to the date of the act. The law refers back to the
improvement, and .gives the pre-emption, notwitlistandin.; an intermediate, title. Simms must show .that his
title conmenWed before the passing of the land law
-

2. The second objection relates to the vagueness of
theentry.
The entry of Terrell and Hawkins was made upon
warrant No. 1226, and refers to it, That warrant was
lodged with the surveyor, and refers to the pre-emption
certificate of Ash.
The cases cited to show that you cannot make a
vague entry certain by reference to another paper, are
of recent date, and if they are t6 be understood as tho
opposite counsel contends. wouhl be in opposition to the
analagous cases, in the case of Patlerson's devsees V.
a'rafo, harding..108, it is said .that if the entry calls
for an improvement you may refer to the certificate to
show where. the improvement was. So ih Grenmup x,.
1cnto4, Hkarding, 16, the Court decided that you might
refer to another 1}apcr to show what was ambiguous in
the entry.
It is-aso sail that it appears by extraneous e idenco
that there were two improveihents by Ash, and therefore that tl entry is uncertain.,
The qnestin is whether the improvement was s iillciently notorious to give notice to-subsequent locators.
It might have been as nothrions as any other object. 'rhe
cabin, the spring.' the ruf.and the location of Joseph
Con were all well known. But it is in proof tht one
of the improvements.was abandone:l. They were nrar
each other and formed only one plantation or settlem-nt.
The evidence is that Ash!s improvement means ths
cabin where his widow now lives.

FEBRUARY TERM iSiS.
9NVANN, il 7C11!.

S3138
V.

The pre-emption ofAsh ought to be laid off from Lis oVTnnl
first improvement. Ash renewed both imprbv nients, & Al.
viz. .8sh's and .Clon's, as suick. The question is,
which was Ash's settlen eni at the time referred to in
the ceriificate of The Court of cordmisioners? What
did lie mark and inmprve in the 3 car 1776 ? It is the
improvement mjae in 1776 only to which the con.missioners refer. The cabin was built after the certificate.
FebruaryI t/. Absent....Jon soN, J. and 'ODD, J.
MAnsu u., Ch. J. after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the Court as follows:

The first error assigned is that the'entry and survey
of the Plaintiff in error being prioi- to the claidi made
by Ash before the C6urt of commissioners, gave him a
legal right to the land so entered and suveyed, not to
bec affected by the subsequent claim of Ash.
The words of the act of assembly are, , That all
"those who, before the said first day of January, 1778,
"had marked out orL chosen ror themselves any wasto
"or unappropriated lands, and built any house or hut,
"or made other, improvemenTs thereon, shall also bo
'.entitled, on the like terms, to ay quantity of lanl, to
"6include such improvement, not exceedingi ,000 acres,
e6nd to which no other person bath any legal right or
ds claim;"
The Court is clearly of opinion that the words of the
law refer to the time when the. improvement was :nade,
aid to the. time of the passage of the iit; not to tho
time when the claim, foun led on that inmprownient, was
made to the Court of cofnmissioner.s. If the land, when
imj'roved, was waste and unappropriated, i, at the
passage of the act, no other person had s any. legatl
right or claim" to the land in improved, such right
could not be atquired uqtil tmiat of the improver should
helost.
The second error i,; that the entry made by Terrell
and Hawkins with the surveyor has no reference to the

SUPREME COURT V. S.
simms
v.

pre-emption certificate of Ash, and is therefore not a
gbod and valid entry of Ash's pre-emption right.

GUTURrE

& AL.

Terrell and Hawkins were assignees of Ash; and
this ought to have. been expressed in the entry. Those
words are omitted. In con.sequence (if theiir omission,
it does not appear whose improvement is to be incluied.
Upon this point the Court has felt a good deal of
difficulty. If the entry with the surveyor couhl be connected with the certificate of the commissioners, this
difficulty would be entirely romoved. But the Court is
not satisfied tk.nt, according to the corso of decisions
in Kentucky, such reference is allowablb.
The Coutt, however, is rather inclined to sustain the
location, because its terms are such as to sugg .t" to any
subsequent locator the nature of the omission which had
been made.
Terrell and Hawkins enter 1,000 acres of land, "to
include his improvement." It was then a warrant founded on an improvement; and that improvemnent was
made, not by them, but by a single person. Of that
single person 'Terrell and Hawkins were, of course, the
assigneeq. The. place was described with such (ertainty as would have b"en'suflieient, had the assignment
been stated. On coming to the place, Ash's improvement would have been found. The mistake, therefore,
does not mislead subsequent locators. It does riot pioint
to a different place. They are as well inforniad as they
would have been by the insertion of the omitted words.
Tho entry, to6, contains a reference to the waterant
which the, law directed to be lodged with he surveyor,
and t remain there until it should be retutned with the
plht and certificate of survey to the land office.
S. It is also objected that some of the. Defendants in
error do riot show a complete legal title under ''errell
and Hawkins, for which reason they have not entitled
themselves to a conveyance from .Chavl's Simns ; and
that one of them, John AMei-,,;s, has obtained a decree
f. 1i-0 acres of land, although in the bill he claimed
only io

acres.

FEBRUARY TERM i8s15.
Regularly the Claimants who have only an equitable
title ought to make those whose, title, they assert, as
well as the person from whom they claim a conveyance,
parties to the suit. For omitting to do s,) an original
bill might be dismissed. But this is a bill to enjoin a
judgment at law rendered for the Defendant in equity
against the Plaiutiffi. The bill must be brodght in the
Court of the United. States, the judgment having been
rendered in that Court. Its limited jurisdiction might
possibly create some doubts ifthe propriety of making
citizens of the same state with the Plaintiffi, parties Defendants. In such a case, the Court may dispense. with
pat-ties who would otherwise be require(d, and decree
as between those before the Court, since its decree cannot affect those who are not parties to the suit.
It is certainly a correct principle. that the Court cannot decrei to any Plaintiff, whatever he niny prove,
more than he claims in his bill. Nothing further is in
issue between the parties. It is not nece sary to inquire whether any thing appears in this cause, which
can prevent the Plaintiff from availing hims.lf of this
principle; because the decree will be opened on another
point, in consequence of which -this objection wilt probably be removed.
4. The fourth error is that John Ash having two improvements, it is uncertain which he claimed bWfore the
commissioners, and his entry is on this account void;
or if not so, then his claim was for the improvement
made by himself, and not for that won from BM'Colom.
It is admitted that if the terms of the entry are such
as to leave Ash at liberty to select either improvement,.
it is void; and that if the terms. of the entry confine
him to either, he must abide by his oiiginal election.
Upon considering the testimony on this point, the
Court is of opinion that the entry may be construed to
refer to one improvement in exclhsion of the other; but
that the improvement referred to is the one first made
by himself.
Let the several members of this description be examined.
VOL. IX.

srflzs
T.
GUTniU.
& AL.

--

SUPRDMb
sIMxs
V.
GUTHRIE
& AL.

COURT U. So

John Ash, seur. claimed 4,000 {icres of land, &c. V' on
"'adcoant of marking -arid imprvving -the same in thb

"oyear

1776.'

They were both marked and improved in tlho. year
Ik770, the one.by Ash ldniself,,the other by M'Collord,
The description proceeds, ".lying on the 'waters of the
"Town Fork of Salt'rivef, about two miles nearly east
,,froin Jbseph Cox's land."
Both improveinehts are on the. same water course;
but that made' by Ash is nearer the distanceand' the
course from roseph C.,x's land, mentioned, in the certificate, than'that made by M'Collom.
If, then, it be not absblutely uncertaffi to whiclh improvement reference is made in the certificate, this
Court is of opinion that'the "improvement made by Ash
himself is designated,
Is there any testimony in the cause which can control.the meaning'of the terms of the. certificate when
viewed independent of that testimony?
There is evidence that the improJement at MCol]
le0o's spring was generally known in the neighborhood.
336t there is no reasod to believe that the improvement
originally made b" Aph himself ivas not also known,
nor is there any reason to believe'that he had abandoned it. On the contrary, he added to it by planting
peach stones after having, won that made by MColloin.
It is.also in proof that, at the Court of commissioners, in April, 1780. in conversation.with Thomas Polk,.
whom he thic designed to call on to prove his im.
provemerit, he soid that lie intended to settle at MCol.
lo's spring.
*Supposing this to amount to a declaration of his iFtent to found his claim to a pre-emption on the impravement cummencedby MCollom, and completed by himselLt that intent not appearing in the certificate and entry, could not control thoise documents. But the Court
is not of opinion that the conversation Will warrant this

SUPREATE COURlTi U. S.
si[mxs
V.
GUTHUIE

& A..

rections to order the said CMarle.s .Simms to convey to
the Plaintiffs in the Circuit Court respectively the land
included in his patent, and lying within tl~eir several
clait-s as made in their bill, and as sto tained b) the
evidence in the cause. All which is ordered and decreed-accordingly.

181
Feb.

SPEAKE AND OTHERS
loth.

"0.

THE UNITED STATES.

Obsenlt..ToDP, J.
A bond taken
by
or
the virtue
Ist se tioa

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
Columbia, in an action of debt for 8787 dollars upon a
-e n

by the collector of
ofhhbapbond dated 14th April, 1808, tnL
la orJaua the port of Geor.getown, w4lt conition to be void if the
Ot, void
'8, alis brig
y foreign port
I Active " should not proceed to any
i/ot
tho men '"or place, and the cargo should be riAanded in siome
b. - or,4 port of the United States." The bond was executed
thaies Rf

y. peak. the master of the vessel, and by Beverly and

Thr ohi.

to deny

th1

thPCISY
e',
su.h
abid

Ober the owners of the cargo, in compliance with the
1st section or the. act of congreqs of the 9th of January,
1808, entitled . an act supplnentary to the art. entitled an act lhying an eibarks on all ships and ves&sds
:s
it,the ports and harburs of the United States."
l.

is double the
true.- ralu ofg, p. 10.
the vei

auu

CrhMf!x±nae Pr

The -Defendants having pleaded severally, sundry
pleas, upon which issues i fact. weye joined, pli-aded
beerefry
a bond and ajboitly, (after. oyer,) Ist. , that they ought not to be
Diew ofiri.-,6 charged with the debts aforesaid by virtue of the wrisrted, by ea.
sent of"all the": ting obligatory aforesaid, because they say that the
parti-,
w;i,,
said
writing obligatory vas required and taken, by
out m'akwm~the e
bond

6.

o ie 'JohnBqrnes," collector, &c. - by color of his

consent "said officd as collector as aforesaid, and by pretence of
i
b'Y boprv.
d an act of congreis. entitlel,"
act of Januaryb
arol tvi-•€
. . &c. (the
..
.
!
deiie; alio it9thb, 1808, vol. 9, p. 10,) c which .said writing obligatory
sch

is immatetld

&tand the condition thereof were not taken by the said

