SUPREME C0UJRT U. S.
is also of opinion ,thatso much of the said decree 4s dis,
misses the bill of the Complainants As to James Muni'o
and Samuel Snow, the surviving partners of Munro,
VAN
Snow and Munro, is irregular, and that 'a decreo ought
Rrzms- to have been made against them likewise. It is, thereDYK.
fore, the opinion of this Cotjrt that so much of the said
decree of the Circuit Court for the disfrict of Rhode Island, made in this case, as directs the Appellants to pay
to the Complainant, in that Court, damages at the rate
of ten per centuin on the amount thereof, with interest
thereon; and so much of the said decree as dismisses
the bill of the Complainant as to. James Monro and
Samuel Snow, the surviving partners of Munro, Snow
and Munro, is OrTonbous and ought to be reversed, and,
the same is reversed accordingly. Anti this Court doth
further order and decree that the said cauise le remanded to the said Circuit Court for the district of Rhode
Island with directions to receive proof of the law of
]Batavia respecting protested billsof efchange, to conform its decree to this opinion, and to make tho samlo
against the surviving partner or partners of the late
commercial hiouse of Munro, Snow and Munro as ivell
a against thet Appellans; all which is ordered and decreed accordingly.

CLARK'S

zxu's.
V.

*;FINLEY -v. WILLIAMS
F'eb.

AND OTHERS.

128th.

.bscnt....TODID, X
THIS was an appeal from "the decree of the Circut Court for the district of Kentucky, in a suit in
aosuitfor
Kentcky
UW;
will no
look buond chancery, brooght by Finley to compel Williams and

In Kentucky
Wh
eot

teate t,but others,
ty N11; ,d" land

who had the elder patent, to convey pertaiq

'to the Complainant which he claimed by virtue
e,._e-of a prior settlement.

.l
lidity to the
elder entry aOnst aelder The cause was argued by Pop-E, for the 4ppellants,
etween pre-and CLAY, for the Appelkes, on the 22d of February,
emption
i8i3, in the absence of the reporter.

FEBRUARY TERNM 1815.
February 28th, 18t5.
MARsuAtL,

.9bsent ... TODD, J.

FINLEY

Ch. 3. delivered the opinion of the Court w i1J.tsu

as follows :

&OTHERS.

This cause depends on the. lathid law of Vii-ginia, ri.tthePn
which is .also the land law or Kentucky, that state ', willho~d
having formed a part of Virginia when the act .vas die la-d .
passed in which the titles of both Plaintiff and lein- 9 1" a Piur
dant originated. Both parties claim ti land ill con- try, urle,y
troversy by virtue of improvements made previous to la:t.
the first day of -January, :i778, wi ch improvements t th
C"'2 pr"
en.
nityulon
were recognized by the act generally termed "sthe pret!....try
vious title law," and gave the persons making them i emphi
warpre-emption of one thousand 'acres of land, to include rant, that the
thud,
!'"'y
the improvement, on paying therefor the -price at whidh in terra%caU
the state sold its vacant lands, " provided they respec- fur the improverneit 1to such pre-enmpcc tively demand aml prove their right
° Uol-ig it Must
A,
,
.•

•

,

.

.

,, tion before the commissioners for the county to be ap- il

-5 pointed by virtne of this act, within eight months."

wtt-1nctude

the improveAn entry call-

In the year 1781 an act passed which, after recitinging for "the
that, by the discontinuance of the cpmmissiomeri in the 11"tilinst
district of Kentucky, many goodI people of the coinnon- support a Vcrwealth were prevented trom In oving their rights of set- v

- patent

frLand at the
tlement and pre-emption in due time, owing to their Upr
Bl e

being engaged in the public service of this country, en- UtktlW .-

acts that the county Courts in which such laids may .
lie be empowered and required to hear and determine l, cAlled "the
Blue
such dispuites, ard that the register of the land offire ho Ili;
tUra"tempowred and directed to grant titles oni the deterBwli
there
minations of sich Courts, in the sam manner
e
as if the D waother
commissioners had determined the same.
r
diU1
It appears that, in the year, 1773, John Finley, the
rhaintiff in the cauise, marked and improved the land in aathe il"Cincontroversy. He entered into the continental service tettdec.
in the year 1776, and continued thitrein throughout the
var.- His dlaim was not made'before the commissioners, but was made to the Court of the county ii vi hich
the lands lie, by which Court his claim was alhocd
and the following certificate was granted: "'lAt a Cortl
- held for the county of Fayette, March 12th, 1783,
,application and satisfactory prouf b.ing made. this
s Court doti certify that John Finley is entitled to the

SUPREME COURT U. S,
nzS~jy "cpre-emption of t000 acres(of land, sitnate the on main.
it branch of Licking Creek. to include tn improvement
v.
wItLWAMS "made in the year i773. by said Fink,.y, 'and t6 be
&OTIIERS, " bounded by a survy made. at the time, for him, which
, includes the Upper Blue Lick, by virtue of such mark61 ing out and improving, and his being in puldc ser,"vice when the commissifincrs sat in the district, and
66 thereby prevented applying for the same."
A pre-emption warrant was obtained, and, on the
14th day of Novemnber, in tilt' year 1783, an entry was
made with the proper surveyor in the following words:
,Jom' Finley enters 1000 acres of land on a pre-emp"tion warrant, No. 2526, on Licking, to include tie
6"Upper Blue Lick, and bons.ded on three sides by the
"cline 'f an old survey made in the year 1773, beginc ninc," &c. This entry was surveyed, and a patent
issucd thereon.
William Lynn, tinder whom the Defendants claim,
made an ini*provement on the same ground, ii the year
1775, and laid his claim before the comnmissioners, who
allowed the same, and granted, a certificate therefor,
dated the 20th day of November, in Vie year 1779. in
the following words: ;,William Lynn this day claihnod
4.a pre-emption of one, thousand acres' of land at the
-state prlc6, lying on 'tt south side of Ilicking Creek,
if ki6lxyr by the name of the BigBlue Lick, t. include
6,the said lick lying in a short befit of tho said creek,
"f by improving the s.me in the year 177i, &e.11 On
the 22d of June, 1530, Lynn, having obtained a preemption warrant, entered 'he same vith the properi' s'rveyoir, in these words: i William Li in, James Bar"shour and John Williamg enter 1000 acres of land
upon a pre-emption warrant, beg;nning a 'quarter .f
.,a mile belov, the 'Big Blue Lick on Licking, on the
" south side thereof, ruoiiing on both sides or the said
,,creek, and east and soutb.fo' quantity." This entry
-was so survryed as to include the lands in dispute, aid
a patent was 6btained thereon of an earlior late than
that of Finley. Upon this patent an ejectment was
brought, al judgment obtained by Lynn, Barbour iand
Willbanis. Finley has brPught this. suit to compel a
conveyance of that part of the land held by Lynn and
others, %yhichis included in his patent. Ohi a heariin

FEBRUARY TERP

iaiu

U7

It was the opinion oZ the .Circuit Court that Lynn bnLt F-num
otherg held the better title; in conformity with wlifch a
V.
decree was ide. From that decree Findley has ap-WThLiAs
pealed to this Court.
&orRRS,
The peculiar state of titles to land in Kentucky, a
senior patent iseing, in many cases, issuef. oza a junior
title, and it bein. a rqle in their Courts of law not to
look beyond the patent, have settled the principle that
.Courtsof equity will sustain a bill brought for the purpose of establi-ihin the prior title by entry, and of obtaiing a convei ance from the person holding under a
senior pateht issued on a junior entry. The Courts a
the United Staits-have conforined to this practico, ana
4dopted the principle.
It is also settled in Kentucky that, between pre-emption rights; the prior improveipent will hold tile lala,
although the certificate if the commissioner, tile entry;
the survey and -the patent, be all posterir, in point nf
time, to those obtaied by the person w6 has manoe au
improvement of a latei date.
It follows, from thebe established principles, that Finh-y must prevail, uuless"he has loSt the right acquired
in consequence of his improvement.
The Circuit judge was of opinion that this right ws
lost-by the form of his entry with the surycvor. Not
having, in that.entry, called, in terms, for his improvement, that judge was of opinien that, although his entry
dots. in faat, comprehend his .bnprovememit, *yet he has
surrendered the pr'eference -which his pre-6mption warrant gave-him, and sunk his claim to the level of a common treasury warrant. Tfiis Court can perceive no
reason for that opinion. The law requires'that tbe entry shall, in fact, include the improvement, but does
Dot make it essential to the Aignity of the entry that
the"improvemgnt shall, in terms, le called for. The certificate expressly states that the land granted is to inclide the improvement; and the entry, wldch is made
with remarkable piecision, conforms exactly to the cer-

tificate in the description of 'the land intended to be
taken.

168
FllqLEy

SUPREME COURT U. S.

"But itis contended by the Defendant tfj~t, whatever

may be the opinion of the Court on this point, Finley's
WILLIA.IS title as to a pre-emption, must'yield to that of Lynn, in
&OTIIERS. consequence of his having omitted to assert his claim
before the Court of commissioners. The legislature
could not, it is said, after permitting the time for
making this claim to e.Npirc, revive it t th e prejudice
cf any other person who had ncquired title to the land.
'It is added that the decisions in Kentucky have bce),
adverse to -Litles to pre-cmptions depending on certificates
granted by the county Courts, in cases where they cone
into competition with titles gained before the grant of'
such certificates.
T.

This Court would not willingly depart from the state
decisions, ifrthey have settled the principle the one way
or the other; and would, therefore, have deferred the
determination of this cause until more certain informna.tion could be obtained, had it rested solely on the validity of the Plaintiff's title as founded 'Ol a lre-etuption.' But, on an inspeetion of the record, tile entry of
the Defendants is deemed so radically defective ag necessarily to 3'ield to the title of the Plaintiff, should his
warrant even be reduced to the grade of a treasury
warrant.

The law requires that the holder of a land warrant
,,"shall direct the location thereof so specially and pre..
,"cisely as that others may be enabled with certainty to
4 locate other warrants on-the adjacent residuum."
Such has been the difficulty of making special loca.
tions, that much of the precision wxhich the law Nould
seem to require, has been dispensed wih ; hut a reason.
able and practicable certainly has always been dmend
necessary; and Nherever the material and principal
call of a location has been calculated, inste.ad of infrill.
ing to misguide subsequent locators,. tle location itself
has been brought iit- hazard, and] it has often been deterjined that the survey was made on other laud than
that which the entry covred.
In examining thes questions. the Courts of Kentucky have universally and properly determined that all
subordinate calls in an entry must yield to a principal

FEBRUARY TERM 18M5.
.all t' which they may be relhlgnant. If a great and rL.E
prominate object, immoveablc and durable in itself, and
V.
of general notoriety, be called for iin a location, that oh- wi .IAstg
ject must fix and locate the entry, although other minor &owriU s.
and temporary objects, to he discovered only by a stvrict
and successful search, might prove that the locator really intended to take other land.
In the entry of Lynn and others there is such a principal call. The Big Blue Lick is perhaps an object of
as universal notoriety as any in Kt ntu: ky, But there
are two Blue Licks on the same creek, and both of them
are large licks. In such a case, the locator would certainly be at liberty, and it 'would he his duty to designate the lick he intended to take; for if his entry would
apply to the one as well as to the other, it would be justly i hargeable with a vagueness which would leave subsequent locators unable to locate with certainty the adjacent residuum. This entry has, in its terms, designated the lick intefidel to be included. It is c, the Big
Blue Lick." The entry'does not call for a Big Blue
Lick, but for the Big Bite Lick, thereby excluding any
other lick than that which was emphaticQly denomiunted ,t Big Blue Lick,
We are then to ask which of these licks a man in
Kentucky# holding a warrant which lie intended to locate, would suppose was the. Big Blue Lick.
Upon-this subject the testimony is not doubtful. it
is in full liroof that, at the time the entry of the Defendants was made, and for some years before, the Lower
Bhme Licks were generally called the Big Blue Licks;

and that where the Defendants have surveyid 'was
known by the name of the Upper Blue Licks. They
were sometimes, though rarely, distinguished from earit
other as the Upper Big Blue Licks and the Lawer Big
Blue Licks; sometimes as the Upper and t0 Lower
Blue Licks; but the term the Big Blue Licks, when.
used vithout the word ii upper" or 6,lower," was universally understood to designate the Lower Blue Licks°
The comparty which

e this location in 1775, had

not discovered the Low.d..ue Licks, and therefore denominated the spring which th"' did discover, "the

VOL. IX

PZ

170
VVLBY

V.

WILtIAMS
&OTILF.nis.

SUPREME COURT V. So

Big Blue Lick 2' but the name originated and expired
with themselves. It was never adopted b'y. the peoplq of
the country. It is probabile that Lynn did contemplate
the Upper Blue Licks when he made his entry; but be-

tween conflicting entries a mistake of this kind is fLtal
to the person who commits it. In the case of Taytor
and Hughes it wai impossible not to perceive that Taylor intended one creek when he named, another.; but
subsequent locators iould judge of his intention only
from the words of his entry.
But it.is contended that there are other explanatory
calls in the entry, which cure the defect which has been
stated, and designate, with suffi'ient certainty, that'the
Upper Blue Lick was intended to ha included in the
entry.
The entry is said to require a lick on the soutl side
of Lickiig;'and the sprig which isiu(.s at the Upper
Blue Lick is on the. south side. The words are, " Beccginning one quarter of a mile below the Big Btue
",Lic on Licking, on the south side thereof'" The locater intends,to describe his beginning; and these
-words are to-bo congtrued with reference to that 'inteiltion. lQo the words, con Licking," describe the plaeo
of beginning, or the location of the Big Blue Litk?
'The latter was unnecessary, because there was no Big
Blue Lick except on Licking; and because, were the
fact otheruise, the lick would be asc~rtained by calling
for a be-inning a quarter of a mile helow it onLtcking.
But.the b.ginning might be a quarter of a mile below
the lick, and yet not on the creek. The beginning
would be, in some degree, uncertain, unless it be fixed
by thsose words. The entry is understood as if it were
expressed thus: ",Beginning on Liking, on the south
sido theieof, a quarter of'a mile below the Big Bio
Lick." If reference bp had to thb certificate granted by
the commissioners, that places the land, notithe lick, on
the south side of the creek.
A cabin and a marked tree in a country full of cabins
and marked trees, cannot control a call made for an ob*ect of such gene.r:l notori:'ty as; the Big Blue Lick. A
subsequent locator would look for them only at the Big
Blue Lick-

FEBRUARY TERMI 185
It is the opinion of this Court that-the decree of the
Circuit Court be reverst.d and annulled. and that the
Drfendants be-.decreed to convefy to the Plaintiff so
much of the land comprehended within this grant as ap.
pears by the suivey made in this cause to. lie wvithiht the
bouiids of the grant made to the Cumplainant.4

r =,_'
v.
WILLuAms

&oaMEns.
.

s ,
= The opinian of the Circuit Court, consisting of judges ToDD and UI
was as follows:
The claims of the partie, in thts suit commenced pa pre.emption rights,
yet by their subseqnet acts in making their entries with the Mrveyor they
omitting in
have reduced them to the footing of treasury warranlt chirs bye
their entries to call for their respective improvements, the fAmndation and
essence'of pre-!imption rights. Hughes's Rep. 194, Bryan and Owings Y.

Vallace. These

eumstanzes zendcr it unnecessity for the Court to ex.

pre-s an opinioa as to the description of persos contemplated tobe relieved
by the act of the Virginia legislature wshich passed in bMny, 1781.
The Defendants derive their title under an entry made the CU of June,
in the words following, to wa : -'Wiliasi Lyin, James Br-baur and
"178 -,
"John Williams enter 1000 acrs upon a pre-emption warrant, beginnin-

"one quarter of a mile below the Big Blue Li- k en Licking, on the =1uti
.side
thereot runninZ.up both sides of the said creek, and eat. and couth for
"quantity," -which being of elder date that&that ,fthe Complaant% the
Defendants holding the elder grant for the lands in controvetsy, I bhall therefore consider the validity of their entry first, and test thereby their light to
the land in dispute, which, if it be defect.ve ad cannot be rupported, mizt
yield to the Complainant, whose entry in that case, is deemed gopd and 1'a.
lid for so much as it can legally cover
The important call in ite entry of the Defadnts is "the Big Blue U&ck
VC
on Licking, on the south side tereof."
The validity of this entty rests on the following points: Was the lick,de.
in this-suitbythe name of theBluel~ck,
scribedin the connected plat filed
on the 22d day of June, 1780, and prior to that time generally known and
called by the name of "1the Big Blue Lick ?" Does it lie on the south satl
uiuly knbwn by the
of Licking? Is it a big lick? If the lick was i t otar
name of the It Big Blue Lickt" prior to June, 1780, is the identity ther'eof0
described as to put a subsequent locator on his guard?
By the testimony taken In tis eause the lick in controversy was dioer.
fellow erlvnturets in the eav 1773, and was
his
'.dby- the Coniilatntat tind
by them ealled .the Unper Bu' Lick In cantr-dlstinction to noher and
larger lick which hud ten been discovered'by tameof the company lower

down Licking.

In the yem 1775 nnother company of adventurers, consisting ffive perom
of whom William Lynn k'ione, discovered the Ids, nind y.them itwas
eilled the "Big Blue LU.4" and fron the.entry made rith the vuztyur by
Lynn, it was. go known to him, and called by that name on the 2 day Df
June, 1780.

the lick has been generally, aind
From tlie yea 1777 to the prert iny.
b the
by Lynn,
perhaps universally, with the above exceptioa besnted
name of the Upper Blue Uck. The wveot of testimony preponderatea,as
to the itare of the lick, in fhvor of the GompWlioart. Therefore, as to the
notoriety of the lick by the name of "tht Big Blue Lick," the entry of tho
Defendants ii defective.

Although it often happens that notoriety of an object called for in an en.
try cannot be.sadifactorily jroved," yet the identity thereef may be rv'd-

SUPREME COURT U, S.
;ViNLv

scribed, that it may be found by reasonable enquiry and searching therefor,

and when found, known by the description. In that case, identity is eqoal to
TO.
notoriety.
WVILLIAMS
&
S I will now enquire how fi the identity of the*lick called for
in the entry of
&0THBRS. the Defenidants can be supported..
All the witnesses in the cause speak of- the lick in question as being ablato
Jick, and it is so admitted by the parties who, in their admission, represent the
salt waterissuing from the spring tobe of a bluish color. There is no testisnny which proves the existqnce of any Blue Lick on Licking, except thu
"Uppef and Lower Blue Licks. The testimony establishes two salt Springs
on the south side of Licking; tfat the one lowest down is less than the upper
spriig; that there is another salt spring on the north side of Licking, at the
place called the Lower Blue Licks, which is larger than that on the sonth
side ofthe sti'ean; and that there is no salt spring on the north ite of Licking opposite the tipper lick. The witnesses also, when s'peaking
of the lower
'
Salt spings, describe them generally as one entire object, the Lower Blue
Lick or Licks; and William Brooks describes both the'Uppetl and Lower
Blue Licks as big licks, and that the upper spring discharges mostt water.
The Courts in this country have always endeavored to sustain an entry, it
by reasonable construction it be poss ble For this purpoe they will reject
an absutrd or superfluous call: they will supply a word: they will consider a
call not proved as expunged; and althongh there are Miore allegations than
are plared, yet if enough is proved to reoder the entry suffleigntly certain,
the Court will support it.
These observations are made to show that the Courts will go great lerths
to support defective entries in imperfectand unimportant calls, and are not app icable to the entry nnw tunder consideration, which, in itselc, is consilercil
as possessing sullicient identity to put a subsequent locater npon enquiry, and
when found, to know the place by-the description entained in thu entry.
The Upper and LoA'er Blue Licks bah received appropriate names as carly
as the year 1777. The Lower Hkie Licks, although there were at that plac
two salt springs, one on the nothand the other on the South side of Licking,
had received an :approirate name conveying, the idea ofunity. This was not
th§4 Situation of the Upper Blue List:, whiairt
it bai ilso 5n fppro.silough
pr ate name by which it was- most generally kinown at the time the entry"of
the Defendants was made, yet it lies altogether on the south Side of Licking
The testimony taken in this cause supports every call in the entry o' the
Defendants. All the witeses concur that the place designated in the cor.
nected plat as a blue lick is entitled to that appellation Broolta sayS thit bothI
the licks, i. e. the Upper and Lower Blue Licks, are big licks; and in anw-i
to a request to express his opinion shlch of the two was the largest, Sald he
woul recommend an examination; and the upper lick is on the South sideof
Licking. These facts'apipl to the description given in the Deliodonts entry
and will not apply to the Lower BitteLicks 'Therefore, as no entire bht
lik is prnved to exist on the south side of Licking, except that designated in
1he cinnet-d plat, the entry of the Defendants is sustained) and the Comi ,!'
ot'piinn that no doubt coili exist in the mtind of a subsequent loater, upon
viewing the Upper and Lower ]line Liclk and comptAring the situation And
other fi-cumstanees attending th. Upper Blue Lick, -with the entry, lut tIha
it was the place described and would defeat any idea of ambiguity, if it had
occurred.
On examining the connc tcd plat I find that the Defendants havo corn
menced their survey on Licking, about one hundred poles below the liclt.
rhereas, by the entry, they ought to have begun only eighty, that being thie
precse distance ullcd efor
as the poit of beginning oftheir survey, to rectify
which a new survey was ordered, upon the return of wich,'
itle Dcrendants
were decreed to convey to the Complainants so mtch or the land as was in the
Defendants original lurvey. end was now left out by the new survey as interfered wvith, the Cbnaplaian's surier, and that f' Cosalainant's ILwbe
dismissed as to all the residue.

