Ot. 1882.']

MINTURN V. UNITED STATES.

against this great evil. Its liberality in allowing trees to be
cut on its land for mining, agricultural, and other specified
uses has been used to screen the lawless depredator who de-*
stroys and sells for profit.
To hold that when the government finds its own property in
hands but one remove from these wilful trespassers, and asserts
its right to such property by the slow processes of the law, the
holder can set up a claim for the value which has been added
to the property by the guilty party in the act of cutting down
the trees and removing the timber, is to give encouragement
and reward to the wrong-doer, by providing a safe market for
what he has stolen and compensation for the labor he has been
compelled to do to make his theft effectual and profitable.
We concur with the circuit judge in this case, and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

MINTUIT V. UNITED STATES.
1. An importer of sugars having entered them at the custom-house by a warehouse entry, under sect. 12 of the act of Aug. 30, 1842, c. 270, as amended
by sect.-I of the act of Aug. 6, 1846, c. 84, gave, with sureties, a bond, conditioned to be void if he or his " assigns" should, within a specified time,
withdraw them from the warehouse in the mode prescribed by law, and
pay to the collector a sum specified, "or the true amount, when ascertained,
of the duties imposed." The act required the sugars to be kept subject to
the order of the importer, "upon payment of the proper duties," to be ascertained on entry, "and to be secured by his bond," with surety. He afterwards sold the sugars in bond, and gave to the purchaser, who agreed to
pay the duties as part of the purchase price, a written authority, on which
the sugars were withdrawn; but the full amount of the proper duties,
which was less than the sum specified in the condition of the bond, was
not paid. In a suit on the bond, to recover the unpaid duties,-Held, that
the obligors are liable.
2. Although it is the usage of trade to sell goods in bond, and deliver them
by an order for their withdrawal, the purchaser withdrawing them and
paying the duties, the obligors do not become merely sureties, with the
goods as the primary security for the duties, nor are they released because
the officers of the United States unlawfully part with the goods without
exacting payment of the duties chargeable thereon.
3. The negligence of the officers does not affect the liability of either the principal or the surety in a bond to the United States.

MINTURN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct;.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William f. .Evarts and Mr.Joseph Hf. Choate for the
plaintiff inerror.
iM1r. Assistant Attorney-Caeneral Maury for the United
States.
MR. JUSTIcE BLATCRFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
On Aug. 2,1865, the'firm of Grinnell, Minturn, & Co., being
the owners of five hundred and eighty packages of sugar, imported from abroad, entered them at the custom-house in New
York by a warehouse entry, and thereupon the members of
that firm, as principals, and one Clark, as surety, executed
under their hands and seals and delivered to the collector a
warehouse bond, conditioned that the bond should be void if
the principals, "or either of them, their or either of their heirs,
executors, administrators, or assigns," should, "o n or before
the expiration of one year from the date of the importation" of
the said goods, withdraw them, "in the mode prescribed by
law, from the public store or bonded, warehouse" where they
might be deposited at the port of New York, and pay to the
collector for that port $23,787.99, "or .t h e true amount, when
ascertained, of the duties imposed," by laws then existing, or
thereafter to be enacted, upon the said goods, &c. On the giving of the bond, the sugars were placed in the public store and
in the custody of the collector, as provided by the warehousing
statutes. On Aug. 8, 1865, the owners sold to Gibson, Early,
& Co. all the sugars, the same being still in warehouse, and
held by the collector for duties, under said statutes. By the
terms of the sale, the goods were sold expressly subject to the
payment of all duties thereon by Gibson, Early, & Co., who as=
sumed the payment of the duties as part of the agreed price of
the goods-on the sale, the price, less the duties so assumed, being paid in cash on delivery. The sellers made delivery of the
goods in bond, subject to the duties, by writing and signing, on
Aug. 9, 1865, at the foot of the warehouse entry, the following
consent: "We hereby authorize Gibson,- Early, & Co. to with-

Oct. 1882.]

MINTURN V. UNITED STATES.

draw the sugars described in this entry. Grinnell, Minturn, &
Co." It was not the custom to give any formal notice to the
collector or any other officer of the customs of such sales in
bond, nor was any such notice given in this case. The authority to withdraw, in the form above stated, would be and ,was
presented to the collector in due course before the withdrawal
could be made by the purchaser. The total weight of the
sugars, as returned by the government weighers, was 755,621
pounds, upon which the proper duty, at three cents per pound,
was liquidated at $22,668.63.
On Aug. 11, 1865, Gibson,
Early, & Co. withdrew for transportation to Cincinnati, under
the said authority from Grinnell, Minturn, & Co., 325,011
pounds of the sugar, and paid $9,750.33 duties thereon- On
Aug. 29, 1865, they withdrew for consumption, in like manner,
48,618 pounds, and paid $2,058.42 duties thereon. Afterwards,
and before Sept. 4, 1865, they sold to one Camp the residue of
the sugars, the same being then in warehouse, and being, by
the terms of the sale, sold in bond, expressly subject to the
payment of all duties thereon by Camp, who assumed the payment of said duties as part of the agreed price of the goods on
the sale. A firm of custom-house brokers, Wylie & Wade, was
employed by Camp to withdraw the sugars and to pay the duties thereon, and for that purpose was furnished by Camp with
the amount of the duties, $10,859.88, in gold. On Sept. 4,
1865, Gibson, Early, & Co. made delivery to Camp of the residue of the sugars in bond, by writing and signing at the foot of
the withdrawal entry made thereof by his said brokers the following consent: "We authorize Wylie & Wade to withdraw
the goods described in this entry. Gibson, Early, & Co." No
formal notice of this sale to Camp was given to the collector
or any other officer of the customs. This last authority to
withdraw was presented in due course by said brokers when
they desired to withdraw the goods. This was done on Sept.
4, 1865, when they made a withdrawal entry of the residue of
the sugars, the weight of which was 361,996 pounds. 'The
duty at three cents per pound was $10,859.88. But the collector demanded as duties only $9,352.89, being at the rate of
three cents per pound on 311,763 pounds, leaving due, as
duties, $1,506.99. The goods were delivered to the brokers,

MINTURN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

and were of greater value than the duties chargeable on them.
This was done without the knowledge or consent of Grinnell,
Minturn, & Co. The first knowledge or notice they had of the
withdrawal without the payment of full duties was a notice
from the collector, Dec. 6, 1867, as to the amount so remaining
unpaid. Before that time the brokers had become insolvent,
and Gibson, Early, & Co. became insolvent before the trial of
this suit. The United States having brought suit on the bond
against the obligors in it, to recover the $1,506.99, with interest, a jury was duly waived, and the court, having found the
foregoing facts, found the following conclusions of law: 1,
That the facts constituted no bar to a recovery; 2, that, if the
defendants were to be regarded as sureties, after the transfer of
the title to the property in bond, instead of principals, they
stood in no better position ; 3, that the laches of the customhouse officers, in delivering the goods without collecting the
whole of the duties, could not affect the plaintiffs, as the United
States were never bound by the laches of their agents, nor
could the defendants set up such laches as a discharge of their
obligation; 4, that the plaintiffs were entitled to judgment.
The defendants excepted to each of said conclusions of law, a
judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs for $3,096.11, and the
defendants brought this writ of error.
The court below also found, as facts, "that it was the established and uniform usage of trade in New York, at the times of
said sales and deliveries, and long before, for importers to make
sale's of imported goods which were in warehouse, in bond, the
purchaser on such sales assuming the payment of the duties
thereon, and being allowed and credited by the seller with the
amount of th6 duties so assumed, as so much paid on account
of or deducted from what would otherwise have been the pur-.
chase price, and for the seller to make delivery of said goods in
bond, by signing a written consent to the withdrawal of said
goods by the purchaser, and it was also in accordance with such
usage and custom for successive sales and deliveries of goods
in bond to be made, on similar terms and in the same manner,
so long as any of such goods remained in warehouse, the last
purchaser withdrawing the goods under the written consent so
received by him upon and as the delivery thereof, and paying

Oct. 1882.]

OINTUPN

V. UNITED STATES.

the duties thereon on such withdrawal; that the said custom
and usage were, at the times aforesaid, well known and understood, and the established and settled practice at the customhouse in New York was to treat the party holding such consent
for withdrawal, and him only, as the person entitled to withdraw and receive the goods on payment of the duties, and upon
the payment by him of the duties remaining due thereon, and
not otherwise, to issue a written permit for the actual delivery
to him of said goods out of warehouse . and that, during the
period covered by the transactions hereinbefore set forth, the
following regulations of the Treasury Department were in force,
to wit: ' Art. 442. The entry for withdrawal of merchandise
from warehouse for consumption, at port of original importation, shall be made by the party in whose name the merchandise was warehoused, or by some person duly authorized for the
purpose by him, and in either case shall be signed by the
party making the withdrawal. This entry shall exhibit the
marks and numbers of the packages, the description and quality of the goods, and the dutiable value of the same. On presentation to the proper officer in the collector's office, it shall
be compared with the record, on the warehouse books, of the
original warehouse entry, and, if found correct, be properly entered therein, the warehouse-bond number indorsed thereon,
and the amount of duties payable estimated. From the collector's office it shall then be taken by the importer to the
naval office, where a similar comparison shall be made with the
warehouse records of that office, and the estimate of duties
verified and indorsed upon the duplicate entry. The amount
of duties thus ascertained having been paid, a permit will be
issued for the delivery of the goods. Art. 448. Merchandise in
bulk, liquors, sugars, molasses, cocoa, pepper, and other articles
bought and sold by weight, when withdrawn for export or
transportation, must be entered for such destination at the
actual quantities on which duties were estimated at the time of
arrival in the United States; and, to secure this, weighers,
measurers, and gaugers will be required to mark on each package its contents, as determined by them on its entry for
warehouse. On these quantities the duties on export and
transportation entries will be estimated. Goods withdrawn for

MINTURN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

consumption may be taken at average valuations, care being
had that on the last withdrawal the entire balance of duty be
collected. Art. 444. Should the final withdrawal entry be for
export or transportation, and there be any difference between
the actual duty and the- amount to close the sum due on the
warehouse entry, the excess, if any, shall be refunded on the
last withdrawal for consumption, and the deficiency, if any, collected on amendment to said entry.'"
The contention for, the plaintiffs in error is, that, by the
substitution for a credit system, in the payment of duties, of a
deposit of the goods in warehouse, subject to a withdrawal for
consumption only on the payment of duties, involving the
holding by the United States of possession of the goods in the
mean time, such possession became the primary security for
the duties, and the obligors in the bond were thereafter merely
sureties, and were wholly released because the officers of the
United States parted with the possession of the goods without
exacting'payment of the duties.
Section I of the act of Aug. 6, 1846, c. 84; amendatory of
sect. 12 of the act of Aug. 30, 1842, c. 270, provides that, on
an entry of goods for warehousing, the goods shall be taken possession of by the collector, and deposited in the public stores,
there to be kept subject at all times-to the order of the owner,
importer, consignee, or agent, "upon payment of the proper
duties and expenses, to be ascertained on due entry thereof for
warehousing, and to be secffred by a bond of the owner, importer, or consignee, 'yith surety or sureties to the satisfaction
of'the- collector, in double the amount of said duties, and in such
form as the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe." It is
contended by the plaintiffs in error that a private creditor,
standing' in the same relation to them and to the goods which
the United States occupied under the warehousing system as
provided for by the statute and as practically administered,
could not have voluntarily surrendered the goods which had
been placed in his hands as, security for the payment of the
debt, and which were available for that purpose, without requiring payment of the debt, otherwise than with the consent
of- the plaintiffs in error, without discharging them from their
liability; that the-United States are entitled to no other or

Oct. 1882.]

MI,\TURN V. UNITED STATES.

448

higher right than a private creditor would be entitled to in
the same case; and that the consent of the importers to the
withdrawal of the goods by Gibson, Early, & Co. was not a
consent unconditionally to their delivery, or to their delivery
without the payment of duties, but only to their withdrawal
from warehouse in the manner and upon the terms and conditions prescribed by law and by the treasury regulations and
by usage, namely, after all duties thereon had been first paid,
and not otherwise.
The warehousing statute, above cited, provides that warehoused goods shall be subject to the order of their owner on
payment of the duties. Therefore, no order of the plaintiffs
in error could become operative to affect any rights of the
United States, unless the duties on the goods to be affected by
the order were paid. Moreover, the provision as to the deposit.
of the goods, and their retention till the duties on them are
paid, is coupled with the provision for the securing of the
duties by the bond. Evidently, the intention 6f the statute
was to superadd to the security of the holding of the goods
the security of the bond, so that, in case of a delivery of the
goods by fraud, or mistake, or negligence in the officers of the
government, the security of the bond should remain. The form
of the bond taken was such, that while, in connection with the
regulations and the usage, commerce was favored by the privilege of dealing in warehoused goods, it was clearly intended to
hold the obligors responsible if any purchaser from the importers should obtain the goods on their oraer without paying
full duties. The condition is, that the bond shall be void if
they or their " assigns" shall withdraw the goods and pay the
"true amount" of duties. The bond is not to become void on
any other condition, and it is not to become void unless, in
addition to the withdrawal of, the goods, the true amount of
duties is paid. This view shows that the parties have contracted to be and remain principal debtors to the United States
until the true amount of duties is paid, whatever fraud or negligence there may be in parting with the possession of the goods
without the payment of the true amount of duties. . There was
no power in any officer of the government to alter the terms or
effect of this contract, and destroy the obligation of the bond,

MINTURN

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

by giving up the goods without the payment of the duties.
The same statute required the holding of the goods and the
taking of the bond. The cases in which it has been held that
the United States had parted with rights, by reason of acts
done to the prejudice of persons who had contracted with
them, have all been cases where there was authority of law to
do such acts. In United States v. Admrs. of ffillegas, 3 Wash.
C. C. 70, it was held, by Mr. Justice Washington, that acts of
officers of the United States acting within their proper spheres,
and to be imputed to the United States and considered as the
acts of the United States, in extending the time for the payment of the debt due from a principal in a bond, discharged
the sureties in the same bond, they not having known of or
consented to the extension. The same principle was applied
by Mr. Justice Thompson, in United States v. Tillotson, 1 Paine,
305, to the case of the alteration of a contract by the United
States without the consent of the sureties for its performance.
But, in the present case, the giving up of the goods without the
payment of the duties was an act not only not authorized,
but forbidden by the statute.
The question presented by this case is not a new one in
this court. In Hart v. United States, 95 U. S. 316, in a suit
brought by the United States against the principal and sureties, on a distiller's bond, to recover taxes on spirits distilled
'by the principal, the sureties pleaded that the taxes were a lien
on the spirits, and that the collector, without the knowledge
or assent of the sureties, and without first requiring the payment of the taxes thereon, permitted the principal to remove
from the distillery warehouse distilled spirits more than sufficient in value to pay the demand. This court held, that as,
under the statute, no distilled spirits could be removed from
the warehouse before payment of the tax, and no officer of
the United States had authority to dispense with the requirement of the law, the United States were not bound by the
acts of the collector; and the prior cases of United States v.
Kirkpatrick,9 Wheat. 720; United States v. Vanzandt, 11 id.
184; United States v. Nicholl, 12 id. 505; Gibbons v. United
States, 8 Wall. 269; and Jones v. United States, 18 id. 662. were
cited as establishing that the government is not responsible for

Oct. 1882.]

DODGE

v.

FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS AND TRUST

Co. 445

the laches or the wrongful acts of its officers; and it was said
by the Chief Justice, delivering the opinion of the court:
"Here the surety was aware of the lien which the law gave as
security for the payment of the tax. He also knew that, in
order to retain this lien, the government must rely upon the
diligence and honesty of its agents. If they performed their
duties and preserved the security, it inured to his benefit as
well as that of the government; but if, by neglect or misconduct, they lost it, the government did not come under obligations to make good the loss to him, or, what is the same thing,
release him pro tanto from the obligation of his bond. As
between himself and the government, he took the risk of the
effect of official negligence upon the security which the law
provided for his protection against loss, by reason of the liability he assumed." These views are conclusive to show that
the importers as well as their surety are liable on the bond in
this case. If the importers could be regarded as having always
been, or as having at any time become, sureties only in respect
of the duties, with the goods as the primary security (a position shown to be wholly untenable), it is well settled, by the
d6cisions of this court, that the negligence of the officers of the
government does not affect the liability of a surety in a bond
any more than it does that of his principal. Dox v. PostmasterGeneral, 1 Pet. 318; United States v. Hirkpatrilc, 9 Wheat.
720; United State8 v. Vanzandt, 11 id. 184.
Judgment affirmed.

DODGE v. FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY.
Where a mortgage of lands in the District of Columbia, or a deed of trust in
the nature thereof, to secure the payment of money, is foreclosed, sect. 808,
Rev. Stat., relating to the District, authorizes a decree in personam against the
debtor for the balance remaining due after the 'proceeds of the sale of the
lands have been applied to the satisfaction of the debt.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, the holder' of

