Oct. 1882.]

JESSUP V. UNITED

STATES.

anisms contrived to accomplish the same object. This he
could not rightfully do.
We are of opinion that the claim of the reissued patent is
for a different invention from that described in the original
patent, and that the reissue is therefore void. Gill v. Wells,
22 Wall. 1; The Wood-Paper Patent, 23 id. 566; Powder
Company v. Powder Works, 98 U. S. 126; Ball w. Langles,
102 id. 128; Miller v. Brass Company, 104 id. 350; James v.
Campbell, id. 356; Heald v. Rice, id. 737; Johnson v. Railroad Company, 105 id. 539; Bantz v. Firantz, id. 160.
Decree affirmed.

JESSUP v. UNITED STATES.
1. Section 161 of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, entitled "An Act to provide internal revenue to support the government, to pay interest on the public debt,
and for other purposes," does not require that when, pursuant to its provisions, adhesive and other stamps are furnished to the manufacturer on
credit, the bond to secure the payment therefor shall be executed to the
Treasurer of the United States.
2. Even if taken without the authority of a statute, a bond payable to the United
States, with a condition that the manufacturer shall pay such sums as he
shall owe the United States for adhesive stamps, would be binding at
common law, and an action might be maintained thereon.
3. Under such a bond, any competent evidence to establish the manufacturer's
indebtedness for stamps is admissible, whether they were from time to time
furnished by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the Assistant Treasurer of the United States.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was an action at law brought by the United States
against William H. Jessup, as principal, and Jabez Howes and
others, sureties on his bond, dated Nov. 3, 1869, payable to
the United States, in the sum of 910,000, and conditioned as
follows: -

"The condition of the foregoing obligation is such, that whereas
the said William Henry Jessup is a manufacturer of friction or other
matches, cigar-lights, or wax-tapers; and whereas, under the provisions of the 161st section of an act entitled ' An Act to provide

JESSUP V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

internal revenue to support the government, to pay interest on the
public debt, and for other purposes,' approved June 30, 1864, the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue is authorized, from time to
time, to furnish, supply, and deliver to any manufacturer of friction
or other matches, cigar-lights, or wax-tapers, a suitable quantity of
adhesive or other stamps, such as may be prescribed for use in such
cases, without prepayment therefor, on a credit not exceeding sixty
days, requilring in advance such security as he may judge necessary
to secure payment therefor to the treasury of the United States
within the time prescribed for such payment; and whereas adhesive stamps have been delivered, or hereafter may be delivered, to
said William Henry Jessup by virtue of said authority: Now, there.
fore, if the said William Hewry Jessup shall make a faithful return,
whenever so required, of the moneys received by him for such
adhesive stamps as have been or may hereafter be delivered to him,
and of all quantities or amounts thereof undisposed of, whenever
required so to do, and shall do and perform all other acts of him
required to be done in the premises according to law and regulations, shall well and truly pay, or cause to be paid, to the Treasurer
of the United States, for the use of the United States, all and every
such sum or sums of money as the said William Henry Jessup may
owe to the United States for adhesive stamps which have been or
shall be delivered to him, or which have been or shall be forwarded
to him, according to his request or order, within the time prescribed
for payment for the same according to law, and shall and will pay,
or cause to be paid, to the said Treasurer, for the use aforesaid, each
and every sum of money as shall become due or payable to the
United States, at the time and on the days each sum shall respectively become due or payable, then the above obligation to be void
and of no effect; otherwise to be and remain in full force and
virtue."
Section 161 of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, entitled "An
Act to provide internal revenue to support the government, to
pay interest on the public debt, and for other purposes," provides as follows: "That the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
may, from time to time, furnish, supply, and deliver to any
manufacturer of friction or other matches, cigar-lights, or waxtapers, a suitable quantity of adhesive or other stamps, such as
may be prescribed for use in such cases, without prepayment
therefor, on a credit not exceeding sixty days, requiring in
advance such security as he may judge necessary to secure pay-

Oct. 1882.]

JESSUP V. UNITED STATES.

ment therefor to the Treasurer of the United States within the
time prescribed for such payment. And upon all bonds or
other securities taken by said commissioner, under the provisions of this act, suits may be maintained by said Treasurer
in the Circuit or District Court of the United States, in the
several districts, where any persons giving said bonds or other
securities reside or may be found, in any appropriate form of
action."
While these provisions of the law were in force, Jessup, a
manufacturer of friction-matches in San Francisco, Cal., desiring to avail himself of the privilege of obtaining internal revenue stamps on a credit of sixty days, gave to the United States
the bond in suit.
The breach of the bond assigned is that he had received
from the United States adhesive stamps amounting to the sum
of $8,000, which he had neither accounted for nor paid.
The answer admits the execution of the bond, but denies
generally the other allegations of the complaint. It avers performance, and sets up, by way of separate defence, that under
the law and regulations, and the condition of the bond, all
stamps, of whatsoever kind or denomination; delivered to Jessup, were to be so delivered to him upon a credit not exceeding
sixty days; that after the delivery and execution of the bond,
and before the pretended liability mentioned in said complaint
had accrued, to wit, on the 18th of April, 1870, the United
States, or some of its officers, made a new contract with Jessup,
without the knowledge or consent of the defendants, the sureties on said bond, or either of them, whereby the credits for
stamps supplied and delivered to him were extended indefinitely,
and beyond the term of sixty days. The answer further avers
that if he became indebted to the United States for stamps
furnished, supplied, or delivered to him, such indebtedness
accrued since the making of and under said new contract, and
not otherwise.
The parties waived a jury, and submitted the cause to the
court for trial. The court found all the issues of fact for the
plaintiff, and rendered judgment in its favor for the sum of
$7,272, with interest thereon from March 1, 1876.
To reverse that judgment this writ of error was brought.

JESSUP V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. C

Hr. W7illiam W. Morrow and .3fr. John -E. Ward for the
plaintiffs in error.
11'3. Assistant Attorney-eneral laury for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The answer of the defendants admits the execution of the
bond which is the basis of the suit. The finding by the court
below in favor of the United States of all the issues of fact
raised by the pleadings establishes, beyond the reach of controversy, that Jessup did not perform the condition of his bond;
that he did not pay for revenue stamps advanced to him; and
that the United States, or some of its officers, did not, without
the knowledge or consent of his sureties, make a new contract,
whereby credits for stamps furnished him were extended indefinitely, and beyond the term of sixty days.
The finding of the court also shows that Jessup was indebted
to the United States for stamps received by him, the payment
of which was secured by his bond, in the sum for which judgment was rendered against his sureties.
The finding has eliminated from the case some of the questions discussed by the counsel for plaintiffs in error. The facts
found by the Circuit Court are not open to review in this
court, and we can only consider questions of law arising upon
the trial, and duly presented by bill of exceptions, and errors
of law apparent on the face of the pleadings. Insurance
Company v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237; Cooper v. Omohundro, 19
id. 65.
These questions we shall now consider. It appears from the
bill of exceptions that the defendants moved to dismiss the
action, on the ground that the bond in suit was given to
the United States, and not to the Treasurer of the United
States, and on the ground that the suit was not brought in his
name, as provided by sect. 161 of the act of June 30, 1864,
c. 173, as amended.
The first of these grounds is based on the assumption that
the section referred to requires the bond to be given to the
Treasurer of the United States and not to the United States,
and, as the bond in suit is payable to the United States, that it

Ot 1882.]

JESSUP V. UNITED STATES.

is absolutely void; the contention of the plaintiffs in error
being that the United States cannot take a valid bond except
when and in the terms directed by the statute. But the bond
is not required to be made payable to the Treasurer. It may
be payable directly to the United States, and conditioned that
payment for stamps advanced shall be made to the Treasurer,
and not depart from any express provision of the law.
But conceding the section to mean that the bond shall be
payable to the Treasurer, still we are of opinion that a bond in
which the United States is the obligee, and which is conditioned that payment for stamps advanced shall be made to the
Treasurer, is a valid and binding obligation.
In Udted States v. Tingey, 5 Pet. 115, the question was
made how far a bond voluntarily given to the United States
and not prescribed by law is a valid instrument, and binding
upon the parties; in other words, whether the United States
have in their political capacity a right to enter into a contract
or to take a bond in cases not previously provided for by some
law. And the court declared: "Upon full consideration of
this subject, we are of opinion that the United States have such
a capacity to enter into contracts. It is in our opinion an incident to the general right of sovereignty, and the United
States being a body politic may, within the sphere of the constitutional powers embodied in it, enter into contracts not prohibited by law, and appropriate to the just exercise of these
powers."
To the same effect is United States v. Bradley, 10 id. 343.
In United States v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 395, it was held, in
substance, that when a distiller's bond was given under sect. 53
of the act now in question, which required the bond to be conditioned for the performance of several particular acts which it
specifically stated, and the agent of the government took the
bond conditioned, not in the specific way directed by the statute, but for the parties' compliance with all the provisions of
the act and such other acts as were then or might thereafter be
in that behalf enacted, the bond was binding on the parties.
United States v. Linn, 15 Pet. 290, was an action against a
receiver of public moneys and his sureties. The statute required him to give bond for the faithful discharge of his trust.

JESSUP V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

The instrument given and sued on was without seal, and, there,
fore, not the security required by the statute. The court,
nevertheless, held it to be a valid and binding obligation.
These authorities show that the United States can, without
the authority of any statute, make a valid contract, and that
when the form of a contract is prescribed by the statute, a
departure from its directions will not render the contract invalid. The bond is good at common law.
The Circuit Court was, therefore, right 'in overruling the
motion of the defendants to dismiss the suit on the ground that
the bond was given to the United States and not to the Treas
urer of the United States.
This conclusion disposes also of the second ground upon
which the motion to dismiss was based. For if the United
States can, without the authority of any statute, take a valid
bond payable to the United States, they can maintain a suit
upon it in their own name. It would be absurd to hold a bond
to be valid on which a suit in the name of the obligee could
not be maintained.
The objection to the admissibility of the bond in evidence,
which the bill of exceptions shows was taken, on the ground
that the condition of the bond did not conform strictly to the
condition prescribed by the statute, falls for the same reasons
and upon the same authorities.
It further appeared from the bill of exceptions that on the
trial of the case the United States, to prove the breach of the
condition of the bond by Jessup, offered in evidence the account kept by the Assistant Treasurer of the United States at
San Francisco, from which it appeared that, on Jan. 1, 1876,
for adhesive stamps advanced by him to Jessup there was due
from the latter to the United States the sum of $8,000.
The court admitted the account in evidence notwithstanding
the objection of defendants, and this is now assigned for error.
The first ground of objection urged to the admissibility of
this evidence was that the account appeared to be for stamps
supplied by the Assistant Treasurer, and the law under which
the bond was given contemplated that the stamps should be
furnished by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
But the penalty of the bond was payable directly to the

Oct. 1882.]

JESSUP v. UNITED STATES.

United States, and its condition was that Jessup should pay, or
cause to be paid, to the Treasurer of the United States, for the
use of the United States, all and every such sum or sums as he
might owe the United States for adhesive stamps. This being
a valid bond, any evidence which tended to show that Jessup
was indebted to the United States for adhesive stamps was competent, and it was quite immaterial whether the stamps were
furnished by the Assistant Treasurer or by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue.
The account was objected to on the further ground that it
appeared on its face that the credits were continuously for a
greater period than sixty days, and, therefore, that the account
was not within the statute, and was incompetent and irrelevant
to the issue in the action. The contention of the plaintiffs in
error is that the operation of the bond extended to but one
credit of sixty days; that by the security for stamps advanced
on credit required by sect. 161, is meant a new security for each
and every advance of stamps, and that manufacturers needing
stamps from time to time must give security as often as a lot of
stamps is advanced, and consequently that the bond in suit was
security only for the first advance of stamps, and that all subsequent advances were made entirely without security. But
the language of the condition of the bond clearly excludes any
such construction. The condition is that Jessup shall pay such
sum or sums of money as he may owe to the United States for
adhesive stamps which have been or shall be delivered to him,
or which have been or shall be forwarded to him, according to
his request or order, within the time .prescribed for payment
for the same, and shall and will pay, or cause to be paid, to the
said Treasurer, for the use aforesaid, each and every such sum of
money as shall become due or payable to the United States at the
time and on the days such sums shall respectively become due
and payable. The idea that the bond secured the payment of
but one sum of money due for stamps purchased at one time
on a single credit of sixty days, finds no support in the language
of the bond. The payment of sums due at different times, for
stamps purchased at different times, is expressly secured in the
condition of the bond.
The bond in this respect conforms to the statute, which

154

THE "NEVADA."

[Sup. Ct.

authorizes the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from time to
time to supply and deliver to any manufacturer of frictionmatches a suitable quantity of adhesive or other stamps, without prepayment therefor, on a credit not exceeding sixty days.
What we have said covers all the errors assigned.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

THE "NEVADA."
1. An ocean steamer starting from a crowded slip, the motion of her propeller
caused a canal-boat to break her fastenings and swing around against the
propeller, whereby she was sunk. The steamer had no lookout at her stern,
by whom the peril of the canal-boat might have been seen in time to stop
the propeller and prevent the collision. Held, that the steamer was in
fault.
2. Towage should be employed, when necessary to enable a large steamer to
leave a crowded slip or harbor without damaging other vessels.
3. Steamers and locomotives should be so managed and operated as to do the
least possible injury consistent with their substantial usefulness.
4. Those in charge of the canal-boat, in this case, having done allthat reasonable
prudence required of them, by properly fastening their boat, were held free
from blame.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Stephen P. Nash for the appellant.
Mr.Eugene H. Lewis and 1W. Robert
appellee.

. Benedict for the

Mn. JUsTIcE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arises upon a libel filed in the District Court for
the Southern District of New York by S. J. Quick, master and
owner of the canal-boat "Kate Green," for himself and for
F. A. McKnight, against the steamship "Nevada," in a cause
of collision. The libel alleges that McKnight was invested by
subrogation, or otherwise, with the interest of the Western Insurance Company of Buffalo, who were insurers of 8,100 bushels of corn, the cargo of the "Kate Green" at the time of the
collision; that on-the 27th of September, 1871, whilst the

