UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES v. LEE.
KAuUmAJ

v. LEE.

1. The doctrine that, except where Congress has provided, the United States cannot be sued, examined and reaffirmed.
2. That doctrine has no application to officers and agents of the United States
who, when as such holding for public uses possession of property, are sued
therefor by a person claiming to be the owner thereof or entitled thereto;
but the lawfulness of that possession and the right or title of the United
States t6 the property may, by a court of competent jurisdiction, be the
subject-matter of inquiry, and adjudged accordingly.
3. The constitutional provisions that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty,
or property without due process of law, nor private property taken for
public use without just compensation, relate to those rights whose protection is peculiarly within the province of the judicial branch of the government. Cases examined which show that the courts extend protection
when the rights of property are unlawfully invaded by public officers.
4. In ejectment, the title relied on by the defence was a certificate of sale of the
demanded premises to the United States by the commissioners under the act
of Congress for the collection of direct taxes. The certificate was impeached on the ground of the refusal of the commissioners to permit the
owner to pay the tax, with interest and costs, before the day of sale, by an
agent, or in any other way than by payment in person. Hdd, that when
the commissioners had established a uniform rule that they would receive
such taxes from no one but the owner in person, it avoids such sale, and
a tender is unnecessary, since it would be of no avail.
5. Bennett v. Hunter, 9 Wall. 324, Tacey v. Irwin, 18 id. 549, and Atwood v. Weeaas,
99 U. S. 183, re-examined, and the principle they establish held to apply to
a purchase at such a tax sale by the United States as well as by a private
person.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The cases were argued by the Solicitor-General and Mr.
TWestell Willoughby for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. William D. Shipman, izfr. A. Ferguson Beach, and Mr. William J.
Robertson, with whom were Hr. Legh B. Page and Mr. Francis
L. Smith, for the defendant in error.
MR. JusTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
These are two writs of error to the same judgment: one prosecuted by the United States, eo nomine; and the other by the

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

Attorney-General of the United States, in the names of Frederick Kaufinan and Richard P. Strong, the defendants against
whom judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court.
The action was originally commenced in the Circuit Court
for the county of Alexandria, in the State of Virginia, by
George W. P. C. Lee, against Kaufman and Strong and a great
number of others, to recover possession of a parcel of land of
about eleven hundred acres, known as the Arlington estate.
It was in the form prescribed by the statutes of Virginia,
under which the pleadings are in the names of the real parties,
plaintiff and defendant.
As soon as the declaration was filed the case was, by writ of
certiorari,removed into the Circuit Court of the United States,
where all the subsequent proceedings took place. It was tried
by a jury, and during its progress an order was made at the
request of the plaintiff dismissing the suit as to all of the defendants except Kaufman and Strong. Against each of these
a judgment was rendered for separate parcels of the land in
controversy; namely, against Kaufman for about two hundred
acres of it, constituting the National Cemetery and included
within its walls, and against Strong for the remainder of the
tract, except seventeen acres in the possession of Maria
Syphax.
As the United States was not a party to the suit below, and,
while defending the action by its proper law officers, expressly
declined to submit itself as a defendant to the jurisdiction of
the court, there may exist some doubt whether it has a right
to prosecute the writ of error in its own name; but as the
judgment against Kaufman and Strong is here on their writ of
error, under which all the questions are raised which could be
raised under the other, their writ being prosecuted in the
interest of the United States, and argued here by the SolicitorGeneral, the point is immaterial, and the question has not been
mooted.
The first step taken in the case after it came into the Circuit Court of the United States was the filing in the clerk's
office .of that court of the following paper by the AttorneyGeneral -

UNITED STATES v. LEE.
"GEORGE

[Sup. Ct.

W. P. C. LEE
V.

In ejectment.

FREDERICK K.uFmAN, R. P. STRONG,
AND OTHERS.

J

"And now comes the Attorney-General of the United States and
suggests to the court and gives it to understand and be informed
(appearing only for the purpose of this motion) that the property in
controversy in this suit has been for more than ten years and now
is held, occupied, and possessed by the United States, through its
officers and agents, charged in behalf of the government of the
United States with the control of the property, and who are in the
actual possession thereof, as public property of the United States,
for public uses, in the exercise of their sovereign and constitutional
powers, as a military station, and as a national cemetery established
for the burial of deceased soldiers and sailors, and known and
designated as the 'Arlington Cemetery,' and for the uses and purposes set forth in the certificate of sale, a copy of which as stated
and prepared by the plaintiff, and which is a true copy thereof, is

annexed hereto and filed herewith, under claim of title as appears
by the said certificate of sale, and which was executed, delivered,

and recorded as therein appears.
"Wherefore, without submitting the rights of the government of
the United States to the jurisdiction of the court, but respectfully
insisting that the court has no jurisdiction of the subject in controversy, he moves that the declaration in said suit be set aside, and
all the proceedings be stayed and dismissed, and for such other
order as may be proper in the premises.
"CHAs. DEvENs,
" Ate'y- Gen'l

U S,."

The plaintiff demurred to this suggestion, and on hearing the
demurrer was sustained.
The case was thereupon tried before a jury on the general
issue pleaded by Kaufman and Strong, in the course of which
the question raised by this suggestion of the Attorney-General
was again presented to the court by prayers for instruction,
which were rejected, and exceptions taken.
The plaintiff offered evidence establishing title in himself by
the will of his grandfather, George Washington Parke Oustis,
who devised the Arlington estate fo his daughter, the wife of
General Robert E. Lee, for life, and after her death to the

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

plaintiff. This, with the long possession under -that title,
made a primafaeie right of recovery in the plaintiff.
The title relied on by the defendants is a tax-sale certificate
made by the commissioners appointed under the act of Congress of June 7, 1862, c. 98, entitled "An Act for the collection of direct taxes in the insurrectionary districts within the
United States," as amended by the act of Feb. 6, 1868, c. 21.
At this sale the land was bid in for the United States by the
commissioners, who gave a certificate of that fact, which was
introduced on the trial as evidence by the defendants.
If this sale was valid and the certificate conveyed a valid
title, then the title of the plaintiff was thereby divested, and
he could not recover. If the proceedings evidenced by the
tax sale did not transfer the title, then it remained in him, and,
so far as the question of title was concerned, his recovery was
rightful.
We have then two questions presented to the court and jury
below, and the same questions arise in this court on the
record :1. Could any action be maintained against the defendants for
the possession of the land in controversy under the circumstances of the relation of that possession to the United States,
however clear the legal right to that possession might be in
the plaintiff?
2. If such an action could be maintained, was the primafacie
title of the plaintiff divested by the tax sale and the certificate
given by the commissioners?
It is believed that no division of opinion exists among the
members of this court on the proposition that the rulings of
law under which the latter question was submitted by the
court to the jury was sound, and that the jury were authorized
to find, as they evidently did find, that the tax certificate and
the sale which it recited did not divest the plaintiff of his title
to the property.
For this reason we will consider first the assignment of errors
on that subject.
No substantial objection is seen on the face of the certificate
to its validity, and none has been seriously urged. It was
admitted in evidence by the court, and, unless impeached by

UNITED

STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

extrinsic 'evidence offered by the plaintiff, it defeated his
title.
When this tax sale was made, the act of Feb. 6, 1863, which
substitutes a new section seven for that of the original act of
June 7, 1862, was in force. It declares that the certificate of
the commissioners given to the purchaser at such sale " shall
be received in all courts and places as prima facie evidence of
the regularity and validity of said sale, and of the title of the
said purchaser or purchasers under the same;" and that it
"shall only be affected as evidence of the regularity and
validity of sale by establishing the fact that said property was
not subject to taxes, or that the taxes had been paid previous to
sale, or that the property had been redeemed according to the
provisions of this act."
It is in reference to the clauie which permits the certificate
to be impeached by showing that the taxes had been paid previous to sale that the plaintiff in the present case introduced
evidence.
This court has in a series of cases established the proposition
that where the commissioners refused to receive such taxes,
their action in thus preventing paymhent was the equivalent of
payment in its effect upon the certificate of sale. Bennett v.
Hunter, 9 Wall. 326 ; Tacey v. Irwin, 18 id. 549; Atwood v.
Weems, 99 U. S. 183.
There are exceptions to the ruling of the court on the admission of evidence, and instructions to the jury given and
refused on this subject, which are made the foundation of
several assignments of error.
All that is necessary to be considered in this matter is presented in the instructions granted and refused. The point in
issue is fairly raised by the following, given at the request of
the plaintiff and against the objection of the defendants: "If the jury believe from the evidence that the commissioners, prior to. January 11, 1864, established, announced, and
uniformly followed a general rule under which they refused to
receive on property which had been advertised for sale from
any one but the owner, or a party in interest, in person, when
offered, the amount chargeable upon said property by virtue
of the said acts of Congress, then said rule dispensed with the

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

necessity of a tender, and in the absence of proof to the contrary the law presumes that said amount would have been paid,
and the court instructs the jury that, upon such a state of facts
the sale of the property in controversy made on the eleventh
day of January, 1864, was unauthorized, and conferred no title
on the purchaser; " and by instructions 6 and 7, given at the
request of the defendants, in the following language: "6th, The burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to establish the
fact that the tax commissioners before the sale of this property
made a general rule not to receive taxes except from the owner
in person after the advertisement and before the sale; and if
the jury believe that only two such instances occurred before
the sale of this property, and if there is no evidence that the
other two commissioners or either of them ever acted under
such rule or practice except Commissioner Hawxhurst, or that
they or either of them ever concurred in such action before the
sale of this property, then the said two instances in which Mr.
Hawxhurst alone acted, do not establish the said practice by the
board of commissioners before the sale of this property in a
sufficient manner to render the certificate of sale of this property invalid.
"7th, In order to establish a general practice or rule of the
board of commissioners not to receive taxes except from the
owner in person, after advertisement and before sale; before
the date of the sale of the property in controversy, the jury
must find from evidence produced on this trial that a majority
of such board adopted such practice, or rule, or concurred
therein, before the date of the sale of this property, and in the
absence of proof to the contrary the law presumes that a
majority of such board did not adopt such practice or rule, or
concur therein before such date."
We think these presented correctly to the jury the principle
established by the cases in this court above referred to. That is,
that the commissioners themselves having established and acted
upon a rule that payment of the taxes after advertisement
would be received from no one but the owner of the land appearing in person to pay them, that if offered by his tenant,
his agent, or his attorney in fact duly appointed, it would be
rejected, it would be an idle ceremony for any of these to make

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

the offer, and an actual tender by such persons, as it would
certainly not be accepted, need not be made. That the commissioners, having in the execution of the law acted upon a
rule which deprived the owner of the land of an important
right, a right which went to the root of the matter, a right
which has in no instance known to us or cited by counsel been
refused to a tax-payer, the sale made under such circumstances
is invalid, as much so as if the tax had been actually paid or
tendered. The proposition is thus expxressed by this court at
its last term in Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S. 319, as the
result of the cases above cited: "It is a general rule that when
the tender of performance of an act is necessary to the establishment of any right against another party, this tender or
offer to perform is waived or becomes unnecessary when it is
reasonably certain that the offer will be refused."
The application of these decisions to the case before us is
denied by counsel on two grounds. The first of these is that
Bennett v. Hunter was decided on the language of the act of
1862, and that due attention was not given to the peculiar
language of the substituted section seven of the act of 1863,
which says that where the owner of the land "shall not, on or
before the day of sale, appear in person before the said Board
of Commissioners and pay the amount of said tax, with ten
per centum interest thereon, with the cost of advertising the
same, or request the same to be struck off to a purchaser for a
less sum than two-thirds of the assessed value of said several
lots or parcels of ground, the said commissioners shall be authorized at said sale to bid off the same for the United States
at a sum not exceeding two-thirds of the assessed value
thereof." It is argued from this that no right to pay the tax
under this statute existed except by the owner in person.
The reply to this is that in Bennett v. Hunter and Tacey v.
Irwin the sales that were under consideration are clearly
shown by the reports to have been made after the act of 1863,
and it is believed that no sale for taxes was made under the
original tax law until after that amendment was passed, and
that all the officers charged with the duty of collecting that
tax were aware of the language of the new seventh section.
It is quite apparent from the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

Chase, who spoke for the court in Bennett v. Hunter, and who
was Secretary of the Treasury when both statutes were enacted, that he understood well that he was deciding the very
question raised by the requirement to appear in person in the
latter act, and intended to decide that, notwithstanding this,
the owner had a right to pay the tax before sale by an agent
or a friend.
Besides, there was no other provision of either the act of
1862 or the amendment of 1863 which gave the owner the
right to pay at all between the advertisement and the sale.
The third section of the original act gave the right to pay for
sixty days after the tax commissioners had fixed the amount of
the tax, and no longer; and the seventh section of that act, as
well as its substitute of 1863, gave the light to redeem after
the sale was made.
It is clear, therefore, that Bennett v. Hunter, Tacey v. Irwin,
and Atwood v. Weerns were decisions construing the substituted
seventh section of 1863.
In Turner v. ;mth, 14 Wall. 553, this court, in construing
the change in the language of the seventh section, held that
its object was to authorize the United States, by its commissioners, to bid more than the tax and costs, which they could
not do before, and to limit them to two-thirds of the assessed
value of the land, and that after the amount of costs and tax
had been bid, the United States should not bid against a purchaser named by the owner. It was probably in reference to
this that the act required the personal presence of the owner
before the commissioners to name a purchaser, against whom
the United States should not compete after it was secured by
a bid which covered the tax, interest, and costs.
The other point raised is, that the right to pay the taxes
between the advertisement and day of sale in any other mode
than by personal appearance of the owner before the commissioners, did not exist in cases where the United States became
the purchaser. As it could never be known until the day of
sale whether the United States would becdme the purchaser or
not, it would seem that the duty of the commissioners to
receive the taxes was to be exercised without reference to the
possibility of the land being struck off to the United States.

UNITED

STATES

V. LEE.

rSup. ct.

In Gooley v. O'Connor, 12 Wall. 391, it was held that the
act contemplated that a certificate of sale should be given when
the United States became the purchaser as in other cases, and
no reason is shown why that certificate should have any greater
effect as evidence of title than in the case of a private purchaser, nor why it should not be subject to the same rules in
determining its validity, nor why the payment or tender of the
tax, interest, and costs, should not be made by an agent in the
one case as in the other.
It is proper to observe that there was evidence, uncontradicted, to show that Fendall appeared before the commissioners
in due time, and on the part of Mrs. Lee, in whom the title
then was, offered to pay the taxes, interest, and costs, and was
told that the commissioners could receive the money from no
one but the owner of the land in person.
In all this matter we do not see any error in the rulings of
the court, nor any reason to doubt that the jury were justified
in finding that the United States acquired no title under the
tax-sale proceedings.
In approaching the other question which we are called on to
decide, it is proper to make a clear statement of what it is.
The counsel for plaintiffs in error and in behalf of the
United States assert the propositioni that though it has been
ascertained by the verdict of the jury, in which no error is
found, that the plaintiff has the title to the land in controversy,
and that what is set up in behalf of the United States is no
title at all, the court can render no judgment in favor of the
plaintiff against the defendants in the action, because the latter
hold the property as officers and agents of the United States,
and it is appropriated to lawful public uses.
This proposition rests on the principle that the United States
cannot be lawfully sued without its consent in any case, and
that no action can be maintained against any individual without such consent, where the judgment must depend on the
right of the United States to property held by such persons as
officers or agents for the government.
The first branch of this proposition is conceded to be the
established law of this country and of this court at the present
day; the second, as a necessary or proper deduction from the
first, is denied.

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

In order to decide whether the inference is justified from
what is conceded, it is necessary to ascertain, if we can, on what
principle the exemption of the United States from a suit by
one of its citizens is founded, and what limitations surround
this exemption. In this, as in most other cases of like character, it will be found that the doctrine is derived from the laws
and practices of our English ancestors; and while it is beyond
question that from the time of Edward the First until now the
King of England was not suable in the courts of that country,
except where his consent had been given on petition of right,
it is a matter of great uncertainty whether prior to that time
he was not suable in his own courts and in his kingly character
as other persons were. We have the authority of Chief Baron
Comyns, 1 Digest, 132, Action, C. 1, and 6 Digest, 67, Prerogative; and of the Mirror of Justices, chap. 1,. sect. 3, and chap.
5, sect. 1, that such was the law; and of Bracton and Lord
Holt, that the King never was suable of common right. It is
certain, however, that after the establishment, of the petition
of right about that time as the appropriate manner of seeking
relief where the ascertainment of the parties' rights required a
suit against the King, no attempt has been made to sue the
King in any court except as allowed on such petition.
It is believed that this petition of right, as it has been practised and observed in the administration of justice in England,
has been as efficient in securing the rights of suitors against the
crown in all cases appropriate to judicial proceedings, as that
which the law affords to the subjects of the King in legal controversies among themselves. "If the mode of proceeding to
enforce it be formal and ceremonious, it is nevertheless a practical and efficient remedy for the invasion by the sovereign
power of individual rights." United States v. O'Keefe, 11
Wall. 178.
There is in this country, however, no such thing as the petition of right, as there is no such thing as a kingly head to the
nation, or to any of the States which compose it. There is
vested in no officer or body the authority to consent that the
State shall be sued except in the law-making power, which may
give such consent on the terms it may choose to impose. The
.Davis, 10 Wall. 15. Congress has created a court in which it

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Ot.

has authorized suits to be brought against the United States,
but has limited such suits to those arising on contract, with a
few unimportant exceptions.
What were the reasons which forbid that the King should be
sued in his own court, and how do they apply to the political
body corporate which we call the United States of America?
As regards the King, one reason given by the old judges was
the absurdity of the King's sending a writ to himself to command the King to appear in the King's court. No such reason
exists in our government, as process runs in the name of the
President, and may be served on the Attorney-General, as was
done in Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419. Nor can it be said
that the government is degraded by appearing as a defendant
in the courts of its own creation, because it is constantly appearing as a party in such courts, and submitting its rights as
against the citizen to their judgment.
Mr. Justice Gray, of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
in an able and learned opinion which exhausts the sources
of information on this subject, says: "The broader reason is,
that it would be inconsistent with the very idea of supreme
executive power, and would endanger the performance of the
public duties of the sovereign, to subject him to repeated suits
as a matter of right, at the will of any citizen, and to submit to
the judicial tribunals the control and disposition of his public
property, his instruments and means of carrying on his government in war and in peace, and the money in his treasury."
Briggs J&Another v. Light Boats, 11 Allen (Miass.), 157. As
no person in this government exercises supreme executive
power, or performs the public duties of a sovereign, it is difficult to see on what solid foundation of principle the exemption from liability to suit rests. It seems most probable that
it has been adopted in our courts as a part of the general doctrine of publicists, that the supreme power in every State,
wherever it may reside, shall not be compelled, by process of
courts of its own creation, to defend itself from assaults in
those courts.
. It is obvious that in our system of jurisprudence 'the principle is as applicable to each of the States as it is to the United
States, except in those cases where by the Constitution a State

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

of the Union may be sued in this court. Railroad (ompany v.
Tennessee, 101 U. S. 337; Railroad Company v. Alabama, id.
832.
That the doctrine met with a doubtful reception in the early
history of this court may be seen from the opinions of two of
its justices in the case of Chisholm v. Georgia, where Mr. Justice Wilson, a member of the convention which framed the
Constitution, after a learned examination of the laws of England and other states and kingdoms, sums up the result by
saying: " We see nothing against, but much in favor of, the
jurisdiction of this court over the State of Georgia, a party to
this cause." Mr. Chief Justice Jay also considered the question as affected by the difference between a republican State
like ours and a personal sovereign, and held that there is no
reason why a state should not be sued, though doubting whether
the United States would be subject to the same rule.
The first recognition of the general doctrine by this court is
to be found in the case of Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264.
The terms in which Mr. Chief Justice Marshall there gives
assent to the principle does not add much to its force. " The
counsel for the defendant," he says, "has laid down the general
proposition that a sovereign independent State is not suable
except by its own consent." This general proposition, he adds,
will not be controverted.
And while the exemption of the United States and of the
several States from being subjected as defendants to ordinary
actions in the courts has since that time been repeatedly asserted
here, the principle has never been discussed or the reasons for
it given, but it has always been treated as an established doctrine. United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436; United States
v. lllcLemore, 4 How. 286 ; Hill v. United States, 9 id. 386 ;
.Nations v. Johnson, 24 id. 195; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152; The
.Davis, 10 id. 15.
On the other hand, while acceding to the general proposition
that in no court can the United States be sued directly by
original process as a defendant, there is abundant evidence in
the decisions of this court that the doctrine, if not absolutely
limited to cases in which the United States are made defendants by name, is not permitted to interfere with the judicial

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. ot.

enforcement of the established rights of plaintiffs when the
United States is not a defendant or a necessary party to the
suit.
But little weight can be given to the decisions of the English
courts on this branch of the subject, for two reasons: 1. In all cases where the title to property came into controversy between the crown and a subject, whether held in right
of the person who was king or as representative of the nation,
the petition of right presented a judicial remedy, - a remedy
which this court, on full examination in a case which required
it, held to be practical and efficient. There has been, therefore, no necessity for suing the officers or servants of the King
who held possession of such property, when the issue could be
made with the King himself as defendant.
2. Another reason of much greater weight is found in the
vast difference in the essential character of the two governments as regards the source and the depositaries of power.
Notwithstanding the progress which has been made since the
days of the Stuarts in stripping tb crown of its powers and
prerogatives, it remains true to-day that the monarch is looked
upon with too much reverence to be subjected to the demands
of the law as ordinary persons are, and the king-loving nation
would be shocked at the spectacle of their Queen being turned
out of her pleasure-garden by a writ of ejectment against the
gardener. The crown remains the fountain of honor, and the
surroundings which give dignity and majesty to its possessor
are cherished and enforced all the more strictly because of the
loss of real power in the government.
It is not to be expected, therefore, that the courts will permit their process to disturb the possession of the crown by
acting on its officers or agents.
Under our system the people, who are there called subject8,
are the sovereign. Their rights, whether collective or individual, are not bound to give way to a sentiment of loyalty to the
person of a monarch. The citizen here knows no person, however near to those in power, or however powerful himself, to
whom he need yield the rights which the law secures to him
when it is well administered. When he, in one of the courts
of competent jurisdiction, has established his right to property,

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

there is no reason why deference to any person, natural or artificial, not even the United States, should prevent him from
using the means which the law gives him for the protection and
enforcement of that right.
Another class of cases in the English courts, in which attempts have been made to subject the public ships and other
property of foreign and independent nations found within English territory to their jurisdiction, is also inapplicable to this
case; for, both by the English courts and ours, it has been
uniformly held that these were questions the decision of which,
as it might involve war or peace, must be primarily dealt
with by those departments of the government which had the
power to adjust them by negotiation, or to enforce the rights
of the citizen by war. In such cases the judicial department
of this government follows the action of the political branch,
and will not embarrass the latter by assuming an antagonistic
jurisdiction. Such were the cases of ie -Exchange v. MFaddon, 7 Cranch, 116; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; State of
Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50.
The earliest case in this court in which the true rule is laid
down, and which, bearing a close analogy to the one before us,
seems decisive of it, is United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115.
In an admiralty proceeding commenced before the formation of
the Constitution, and which afterwards came into the District
Court of the United States for Pennsylvania, that court, after
full hearing, had decided that the libellants were entited to the
proceeds of the sale of a vessel condemned as prize of war,
which had come to the possession of David Rittenhouse as treasurer of Pennsylvania. The district judge had declined to issue
any process to enforce his decree against the representatives of
Rittenhouse, on the ground that the funds were held as the
property of that State, and that as she could not be subjected
to judicial process, neither could the officer who held the money
in her right. The analogy to the case before us will be seen
when it is further stated that this claim of the State to the
money had been fully presented, and that the court had decided
that the libellants and not the State were legally entitled to it.
In that case, as in this, it was argued that the suit was in
reality against the State. But, on an application therefor, a writ
VOL. XV1.

14

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

of mandamus to compel the judge of the District Court to proceed in the execution of his decree was granted. In delivering
the opinion, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall says: "The State cannot be made a defendant to a suit brought by an individual, but
it remains the duty of the courts of the United States to decide
all cases brought before them by citizens of one State against
citizens of a different State, when a State is not necessarily a
defendant. In this case, the suit was not instituted against the
State or its treasurer, but against the executrixes of David Rittenhouse, for the proceeds of a vessel condemned in the Court
of Admiralty, which were admitted to be in their possession.
If tlfese proceeds had been the actual property of Pennsylvania, however wrongfully acquired, the disclosure of that fact
would have presented a case on which it was unnecessary to
give an opinion; but it certainly can never be alleged that a
mere suggestion of title in a State to property in possession of
an individual must arrest the proceedings of the court, and prevent their looking into the suggestion and examining the validity
of the title."
The case before us is a suit against Strong and Kaufman as
individuals, to recover possession of property. The suggestion
was made that it was the property of the United States, and
that the court, without inquiring into the truth of this suggestion, should proceed no further; and in this case, as in that,
after a judicial inquiry had made it clear that the property belonged to plaintiff and not to the United States, we are still
asked to forbid the court below to proceed further, and to reverse and set aside what it has done, and thus refuse to perform
the duty of deciding suits properly brought before us by citizens
of the United States.
It may be said- in fact it is said- that the present case difers from the one in 5 Cranch, because the officers who are sued
assert no personal possession, but are holding as the mere agents
of the United States, while the executors of Rittenhouse held
the money until a better right was established. But the very
next case in this court of a similar character, IlTIeigs v. He~ Clung's
Lessee, 9 Craneh, 11, shows that this distinction was not recognized as sound. The property sued for in that case was land
on which the United States had a garrison erected at a cost of

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

$30,000, and the defendants were the military officers in possession; and the very question now in issue was raised by
these officers, who, according to the bill of exceptions, insisted
that the action could not be maintained against them, "because the land was occupied by the United States troops, and
the defendants as officers of the United States, for the benefit
of the United States and by their direction." They further
insisted, says the bill of exceptions, that the United States had
a right by the Constitution to appropriate the property of the
individual citizen. The court below overruled these objections,
and held that the title being in plaintiff he might recover, and
that "if the land was private property the United States could
not have intended to deprive the individual of it without making him compensation therefor."
Although the judgment of the Circuit Court was in favor of
the plaintiff, and its result was to turn the soldiers and officers
out of possession and deliver it to plaintiff, Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall concludes his opinion in this emphatic language:
"This court is unanimously and clearly of opinion that the
Circuit Court committed no error in instructing the jury that
the Indian title was extinguished to the land in controversy,
and th~at tLe plaintiff below might sustain his action."
We are unable to discover any difference whatever in regard
to the objection we are now considering between this case and
the one before us.
Impressed by the force of this argument, counsel say that
the question of the objection arising out of the possession of the
United States was not considered in that case, because it was
not urged in argument by counsel. But it is manifest that it
was so set out in the bill of exceptions, and so much relied on
in the court below that it could not have escaped the attention of the court and of the eminent man who had only six
years before delivered the opinion in the case of United States
v. Peters. Nor could the case have been decided as it was if
the doctrine now contended .for be sound, since the United
States was dispossessed of an occupied garrison by the effect
of the judgment against the officers in charge of it.
In Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, the contest was over a
fort of the United States which had been in its continued pos-

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

session for over thirty years, and was so occupied when the suit
was brought against its officers to dispossess them. *Thecase
came from the Supreme Court of Illinois to this court on a writ
of error, and the judgment in favor of the plaintiff was reversed.
The question now under consideration was not passed upon
directly by this court. But a long examination of the question
whether the plaintiff bad proved title in himself, and a decision
that while the State courts of Illinois held a certificate of purchase
from the United States to be a legal title under her statute,
that statute was invalid, might all have been avoided by the
simple declaration that the United States, being in possession
of the property as a fort, no action at law against its officers
could be maintained. But no such proposition was advanced
by counsel on either side or considered by the court.
There is a very satisfactory reason for this. United States v.
Peters, Meigs v.1Me Clung, and Osborn vr. Bank of United States,
had all involved the same question, and in the first and last of
these cases the principle was fully discussed, and in the other
necessarily decided in the negative. And in The Governor of
Georgia v. Madrazo, 1 Pet. 110, the court had referred to these
cases, and again asserted the principle, quoting the language of
them. Counsel were not justified in asking the court to reconsider it while most of the judges were still on the bench, including the Chief Justice, who had made those decisions.
Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, is a leading
case, remarkable in many respects, and in none more than in
those resembling the one before us.
It was this: The State of Ohio having levied a tax upon
the branch of the Bank of the United States located in that
State, which the bank refused to pay, Osborn, auditor of the
State, was about to proceed to collect said tax by a seizure
of the money of the bank in its vaults, and an amended
bill alleged that he had so seized $100,000, and while aware
that an injunction had been issued by the Circuit Court of
the United States on the prayer of the bank, the money so
seized had been delivered to the treasurer of the State, Curry,
and afterwards came to the possession of Sullivan, who had
succeeded Curry as treasurer. Both Curry and Sullivan were
made defendants as well as Osborn and his assistant, Harper.

Oct;. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

One of the objections pressed with pertinacity all through
the case to the jurisdiction of the court was the conceded fact
that the State of Ohio, though not made a defendant to the
bill, was the real party in interest. That all the parties sued
were her officers, - her auditor, her treasurer, and their agents,
concerning acts done in their official character, and in obedience to her laws. It was conceded that the State could not
be sued, and it was earnestly argued there, as here, that
what could not be done directly could not be done by suing
her officers. And it was insisted that while the State could
not be brought before the court, it was a necessary party to
the relief sought, namely, the return of the money and obedience to the injunction, and that the bill must be dismissed.
A few citations from the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall will show the views entertained by the court on the
question thus raised. At page 842 of the long report of the
case he says:"If the State of Ohio could have been made a party defendant, it can scarcely be denied that this would be a strong case
for an injunction. The objection is that, as the real party
cannot be brought before the court, a suit cannot be sustained
against the agents of that party; and cases have been cited to
show that a court of chancery will not make a decree unless all
those who are substantially interested be made parties to the
suit. This is certainly true where it is in the power of the
'plaintiff to make them parties; but if the person who is the real
principal, the person who is the true source of the mischief, by
whose power and for whose advantage it is done, be himself
above the law, be exempt from all judicial process, it would be
subversive of the best-established principles to say that the laws
could not afford the same remedies against the agent employed
in doing the wrong which they would afford against him could
his principal be joined in the suit."
In another place he says: "The process is substantially,
though not in form, against the State, . . . and the direct interest of the State in the suit as brought is admitted; and had
it been in the power of the bank to make it a party, perhaps no
decree ought to have been pronounced in the cause until the
State was before the court. But this was not in the power of

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. ot.

the bank, . . . and the very difficult question is to be decided,
whether, in such a case, the court may act upon agents employed by the State and on the property in their hands." In
answering this question he says: "A denial of jurisdiction
forbids all inquiry into the nature of the case. It applies to
cases perfectly clear in themselves; to cases where the government is in the exercise of its best-established and most essential
powers, as well as to those which may be deemed questionable.
It asserts that the agents of a State, alleging the authority of a
law void in itself because repugnant to the Constitution, may
arrest the execution of any law in the United States." Again:
"The bank contends that in all cases in which jurisdiction
depends on the character of the party, reference is made to the
party on the record, not to one who may be interested, but is
not shown by the record to be a party." "If this question
were to be determined on the authority of English decisions, it
is believed that no case can be adduced where any person can
be considered as a party who is not made so in the record."
Again: "In cases where a State is a party on the record, the
question of jurisdiction is decided by inspection. If jurisdiction depend not on this plain fact, but on the interest of the
State, what rule has the Constitution given by which this
interest is to be measured? If no rule is given, is it to be
settled by the court? If so, the curious anomaly is presented
of a court examining the whole testimony of a cause, inquiring
into and deciding on the extent of a State's interest, without
having a right to exercise any jurisdiction in the case. Can
this inquiry be made without the exercise of jurisdiction ?"
The decree of the Circuit Court ordering a restitution of the
money was affirmed.
qrisar v. MJlcDowell, 6 Wall. 863, was an action in the
Circuit Court against General McDowell to recover possession
of property held by him as an officer of the United States
which had been set apart and reserved for military purposes.
Though this was set up by him as part of his defence, it does
not appear that in the argument of counsel for the government,
or in the opinion of the court, any importance was attached to
this circumstance; but the opinion of Mr. Justice Field in this
court examines the case elaborately on the question whether

Oct . 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

plaintiff or the government had the title to the land. If the
doctrine now contended for is sound, the case should have proceeded no further on the suggestion, not denied, that the property was held for public- use by a military officer under orders
from the President.
Brown v. Huger, 21 How. 305, is of a precisely similar character, for the possession of the military arsenal at Harper's
Ferry, in which, while the fact of its possession by the United
States was set out in the bill of exceptions, no attention is
given to that fact in the opinion of this court, which consists
of an elaborate examination of plaintiff's title, held to be
insufficient.
These decisions have never been overruled. On the contrary, as late as the case of Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203,
the case of Osborn v. Bank of United States is cited with
approval as establishing these among other propositions:
"Where the State is concerned, the State should be made a
party, if it can be done. That it cannot be done, is a sufficient
reason for the omission to do it, and the court may proceed to
decree against the officers of the State in all respects as if the
State were a party to the record. In deciding who are parties
to the suit, the court will not look beyond the record. Making
a State officer a party does not make the State a party, although
her law nay have promnpted his action, and the State viay stand
behind him as a real party in interest. A State can be made a
party only by shaping the bill expressly with that view, as
where individuals or corporations are intended to be put in
that relation to the case."
Though not prepared to say now that the court can proceed
against the officer in "all respects" as if the State were a
party, this may be taken as intimating in a general way the
views of the court at that time.
The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, and The Davis, 10 id. 15, are instances where the court has held that property of the United
States may be dealt with by subjecting it to maritime liens,
where this can be done without making the United States a
party.
This examination of the cases in this court establishes clearly
this result: that the proposition that when an individual is

UNITED STATES v. LEn.

[Sup. at.

sued in regard to property which he holds as officer or agent
of the United States, his possession cannot be disturbed when
that fact is brought to the attention of the court, has been
overruled and denied in every case where it has been necessary
to decide it, and that in many others where the record shows
that the case as tried below actually and clearly presented that
defence, it was neither urged by counsel nor considered by the
court here, though, if it had been a good defence, it would
have avoided the necessity of a long inquiry into plaintiff's
title and of other perplexing questions, and have quickly disposed of the case. And we see no escape from the conclusion
that during all this period the court has held the principle to
be unsound, and in the class of cases like the present, represented by Wilcox v. Jackson, Brown v. Huger, and Grisarv.
McDowell, it was not thought necessary to re-examine a proposition so often and so clearly overruled in previous well-considered decisions.
It is true that there are expressions in the opinion of the
court in the case of Carr v. United States, 98 U. S. 4383,
which are relied on by counsel with much confidence as asserting a different doctrine.
That was a case in which the United States had filed a bill
in the Circuit Court for the District of California to quiet title
to the land on which a marine hospital had been built. To
rebut the evidence of title offered by the plaintiffs, the defendaht had relied on certain judgments rendered in the State
courts, in which the unsuccessful parties set up title in the
United States, under which they claimed. It appeared that
the person who was district attorney of the United States had
defended these actions, and the question under discussion was
whether the United States was estopped by the proceedings so
as to be unable to sustain the suit to quiet title. After stating
the general doctrine that the United States cannot be sued
without her consent, and the further proposition that no such
consent can be given except by Congress, which is a sufficient
reason why they cannot be concluded by an action to which
they are not parties, the learned justice who delivered the
opinion proceeded to make some remarks as to cases in which
actions would or would not lie against officers of the govern-

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

ment in relation to property of the United States in their possession. As these remarks were not necessary to the decision
of the point then in question, as the action was equally inconclusive against the *United States, whether the persons sued
were officers of the government or not, these remarks, if they
have the meaning which counsel attribute to them, must rest
for their weight as authority on the high character of the judge
who delivered them, and not on that of the court which decided
the case.
That the United States are not bound by a judgment to
which they are not parties, and that no officer of the government can, by defending a suit against private persons, conclude
the United States by the judgment, was sufficient to decide
that case, and was all that was decided.
The fact that the property which is the subject of this controversy is devoted to public uses, is strongly urged as a reason
why those who are so using it under the authority of the
United States shall not be sued for its possession even by one
who proves a clear title to that possession. In this connection
many cases of imaginary evils have been suggested, if the contrary doctrine should prevail. Among these are a supposed
seizure of vessels of war, and invasions of forts and arsenals
of the United States. Hypothetical cases of great evils may
be suggested by a particularly fruitful imagination in regard
to almost every law upon which depend the rights of the individual or of the government, and if the existence of laws is
to depend upon their capacity to withstand such criticism, the
whole fabric of the law must fail.
The cases already cited of 3leigs v. Me Clung, Wilcox v. Jackson, Georgia v. AMadrazo, Grisarv. 14fcDowell, Brown v. Huger,
and Osborn v. Ba?k of United States, necessarily involved this
question, for the property recovered by the plaintiff in the
case of M31eigs v. lMieClung was a garrison and barracks then
in use for such purposes by the officers of the United States
who were sued. In Wilcox v. Jackson, an action was brought
to recover, among other things, a fort which had been in the
occupation of the United States for thirty years, and which was
then occupied by an officer of the army of the United States
and his command. In Osborn v. Bank of United States, the

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

money sued for and recovered by the final decree of this court
was claimed by the State of Ohio as part of her public funds,
and devoted by her laws to public uses in all the exigencies
of the public service; so that the authorities we have examined, if they are worth anything, meet this objection as they
meet the others which we have considered.
The objection is also inconsistent with the principle involved
in the last two clauses of article 5 of the amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, whose language is: "That
no person . . .shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law, nor shall private property be taken
for public use without just compensation."
Conceding that the property in controversy in this case is
devoted to a proper public use, and that this has been done by
those having authority to establish a cemetery and a fort, the
verdict of the jury finds that it is and was the private property
of the plaintiff, and was taken without any process of law and
without any compensation. Undoubtedly those provisions of
the Constitution are of that character which it is intended the
courts shall enforce, when cases involving their operation and
effect are brought before them. The instances in which the
life and liberty of the citizen have been protected by the judicial writ of habeas corpus are too familiar to need citation, and
many of these cases, indeed almost all of them, are those in
which life or liberty was invaded by persons assuming to act
under the authority of the government. Bx parte .Milligan,
4 Wall. 2.
If this constitutional provision is a sufficient authority for
the court to interfere to rescue a prisoner from the hands of
those holding him under the asserted authority of the government, what reason is there that the same courts shall not give
remedy to the citizen whose property has been seized without
due process of law, and devoted to public use without just
compensation ?
Looking at the question upon principle, and apart from the
authority of adjudged cases, we think it still clearer that this
branch of the defence cannot be maintained. It seems to be
opposed to all the principles upon which the rights of the citizen, when brought in collision with the acts of the government,

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

must be determined. In such cases there is no safety for the
citizen, except in the protection of the judicial tribunals, for
rights which have been invaded by the officers of the government, professing to act in its name. There remains to him but
the alternative of resistance, which may amount to crime.
The position assumed here is that, however clear his rights, no
remedy can be afforded to him when it is seen that his opponent is an officer of the United States, claiming to act under
its authority; for, as Mr. Chief Justice Marshall says, to examine whether this authority is rightfully assumed is the exercise of jurisdiction, and must lead to the decision of the merits
of the question. The objection of the plaintiffs in error necessarily forbids any inquiry into the truth of the assumption that
the parties setting up such authority are lawfully possessed of
it; for the argument is that the formal suggestion of the existence of such authority forbids any inquiry into the truth of
the suggestion.
But why should not the truth of the suggestion and the
lawfulness of the authority be made the subject of judicial
investigation ?
In the case supposed, the court has before it a plaintiff capable of suing, a defendant who has no personal exemption from
case
suit, and a cause of action cognizable in the court, -a
within the meaning of that term, as employed in the Constitution and defined by the decisi6ns of this court. It is to be
presumed in favor of the jurisdiction of the court that the
plaintiff may be able to prove the right which he asserts in
his declaration.
What is that right as established by the verdict of the jury
in this case? It is the right to the possession of the homestead
of plaintiff. A right to recover that which has been taken
from him by force and violence, and detained by the strong
hand. This right being clearly established, we are told that
the court can proceed no further, because it appears that certain military officers, acting under the orders of the President,
have seized this estate, and converted one part of it into a
military fort and another into a cemetery.
It is not pretended, as the case now stands, that the President had any lawful authority to do this, or that the legislative

UNITED STATES

v. LE.

[Sup. Ot.

body could give him any such authority except upon payment
of just compensation. The defence stands here solely upon
the absolute immunity from judicial inquiry of every one who
asserts authority from the executive branch of the government,
however clear it may be made that the executive possessed
no such power. Not only no such power is given, but it is
absolutely prohibited, both to the executive and the legislative, to deprive any one of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law, or to take private property without just
compensation.
These provisions for the security of the rights of the citizen
stand in the Constitution in the same connection and upon the
same ground, as they regard his liberty and his property. It
cannot be denied that both were intended to be enforced by
the judiciary as one of the departments of the government
established by that Constitution. As we have already said, the
writ of habeas corpus has been often used to defend the liberty
of the citizen, and even his life, against the assertion of unlawful authority on the part of the executive and the legislative
branches of the government. See .Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2;
Kilbourn v. Thompson, 108 U. S. 168.
No man in this country is so high that he is above the law.
No officer of the law may set that law at defiance with impunity. All the officers of the government, from the highest to
the lowest, are creatures of the law, and are bound to obey it.
It is the only supreme power in our system of government,
and every man who by accepting office participates in its
functions is only the more strongly bound to submit to that
supremacy, and to observe the limitations which it imposes
upon the exercise of the authority which it gives.
Courts of justice are established, not only to decide upon the
controverted rights of the citizens as against each other, but
also upon rights in controversy between them and the government; and the docket of this court is crowded with controversies of the latter class.
Shall it be said, in the face of all this, and of the acknowledged right of the judiciary to decide in proper cases, statutes
which have been passed by both 'branches of Congress and
approved by the President to be unconstitutional, that the

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

courts cannot give a remedy when the citizen has been deprived of his property by force, his estate seized and converted
to the use of the government without lawful authority, without process of law, and without compensation, because the
President has ordered it and his officers are in possession ?
If such be the law of this country, it sanctions a tyranny
which has no existence in the monarchies of Europe, nor in
any other government which has a just claim to well-regulated
liberty and the protection of personal rights.
It cannot be, then, that when, in a suit between two citizens
for the ownership of real estate, one of them has established
his right to the possession of the property according to all the
forms of judicial procedure, and by the verdict of a jury and
the judgment of the court, the wrongful possessor can say
successfully to the court, Stop here, I hold by order of the
President, and the progress of justice must be stayed. That,
though the nature of the controversy is one peculiarly appropriate to the judicial function, though the United States is no
party to the suit, though one of the three great branches of the
government to which by the Constitution this duty has been
assigned has declared its judgment after a fair trial, the unsuccessful party can interpose an absolute veto upon that judgment
by the production of an order of the Secretary of War, which
that officer had no more authority to make than the humblest
private citizen.
The evils supposed to grow out of the possible interference
of judicial action with the exercise of powers of the government
essential to some of its most important operations, will be seen
to be small indeed compared to this evil, and much diminished,
if they do not wholly disappear, upon a recurrence to a few
considerations.
One of these, of no little significance, is, that during the
existence of the government for now nearly a century under
the present Constitution, with this principle and the practice
under it well established, no injury from it has come to that
government. During this time at least two wars, so serious as
to call into exercise all the powers and all the resources of the
government, have been conducted to a successful issue. One
of these was a great civil war, such as the world has seldom

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. 0t.

known, which strained the powers of the national governm~ent
to their utmost tension. In the course of this war persons
hostile to the Union did not hesitate to invoke the powers of
the courts for their protection as citizens, in order to cripple
the exercise of the authority necessary to put down the rebellion; yet no improper interference with the exercise of that
authority was permitted or attempted by the courts. State of
Mississippiv. Johnson,4 Wall. 475 ; State of Georgiav. Stanton,
6 id. 50 ; State of Georgia v. Grant, id. 241; -Exparte Tarble,
13 id. 397.
Another consideration is, that since the United States cannot be made a defendant to a suit concerning its property, and
no judgment in any suit against an individual who has possession or control of such property can bind or conclude the
government, as is decided by this court in the case of Carr v.
United States, already referred to, the government is always at
liberty, notwithstanding any such judgment, to avail itself of
all the remedies which the law allows to every person, natural
or artificial, for the vindication and assertion of its rights.
Hence, taking the present case as an illustration, the United
States may proceed by a bill in chancery to quiet its title, in
aid of which, if a proper case is made, a writ of injunction
may be obtained. Or it may bring an action of ejectment, in
which, on a direct issue between the United States as plaintiff,
and the present plaintiff as defendant, the title of the United
States could be judicially determined. Or, if satisfied that its
title has been shown to be invalid, and it still desires to use
the property, or any part of it, for the purposes to which it is
now devoted, it inay purchase such property by fair negotiation, or condemn it by a judicial proceeding, in which a just
compensation shall be ascertained and paid according to the
Constitution.
If it be said that the proposition here established may subject the property, the officers of the United States, and the
performance of their indispensable functions to hostile proceedings in the State courts, the answer is, that no case can arise in
a-State court, where the interests, the property, the rights, or
the authority of the Federal government may come in question,
which cannot be removed into a court of the United States

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED

STATES v. LEE.

under existing laws. In all cases, therefore, where such
questions can arise, they are to be decided, at the option of the
parties representing the United States, in courts which are the
creation of the Federal government.
The slightest consideration of the nature, the character, the
organization, and the powers of these courts will dispel any
fear of serious injury to the government at their hands.
While by the Constitution the judicial department is recognized as one of the three great branches among which all the
powers and functions of the government are distributed, it is
inherently the weakest of them all.
Dependent as its courts are for the enforcement of their
judgments upon officers appointed by the executive and removable at his pleasure, with no patronage and no control of the
purse or the sword, their power and influence rest solely upon
the public sense of the necessity for the existence of a tribunal
to which all may appeal for the assertion and protection of
rights guaranteed by the Constitution and by the laws of the
land, and on the confidence reposed in the soundness of their
4ecisions and the purity of their motives.
From such a tribunal no well-founded fear can be entertained of injustice to the government, or of a purpose to
obstruct or diminish its just authority.
The Circuit Court was competent to decide the issues in this
case between the parties that were before it; in the principles
on which these issues were decided no error has been found;
and its judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, with whom concurred MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, and MR. JUSTICE

WOODS, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY. The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Bradley, Mr. Justice Woods, and myself are unable to concur in
the judgment of the majority of the court. The case so deeply
affects the sovereignty of the United States, and its relations
to the citizen, that it is fit to announce the grounds of our
dissent.

224

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

The action is ejectment, originally brought by George W. P.
C. Lee against Frederick Kaufman and Richard P. Strong in a
court of the State of Virginia, to recover possession of a tract
of land known as Arlington, of which the plaintiff alleged that
he was seized in fee.
The whole tract, having been advertised for sale for nonpayment of direct taxes lawfully assessed upon it, and having
been selected for government use for war, military, charitable, and educational purposes by the President of the United
States under the power conferred on him by the act of Congress of Feb. 6, 1863, c. 21, was accordingly, in 1864, bid
off to the United States at the tax sale; and for many years
has been, and now is, held and occupied by the United States,
through Kaufman and Strong in charge thereof, under the
certificate of sale of the tax commissioners, and for the purposes
aforesaid, and also under orders of the Secretary of War, part
of it for a military station, and the rest as a national cemetery
for the burial of deceased soldiers and sailors. These facts
were made to appear at three stages of the case.
First, They were stated in a petition filed by Kaufman anA1
Strong in the State court, for the removal of the case into the
Circuit Court of the United States under sect. 643 of the Revised Statutes, on the ground that the defendants were officers
of the United States, and holding the land by title derived
from officers of the United States, acting under a revenue law
of the United States, the validity of which was affected. That
petition was granted and the case removed accordingly.
Second, They were stated in a suggestion and motion, filed
by the Attorney-General in the Circuit Court of the United
States before trial, protesting against the jurisdiction of the
court and moving for a stay of proceedings; which was demurred to by the plaintiff, and overruled by the court.
Third, They were proved by the evidence produced by each
party at the trial, and were assumed in the instructions given
as well as in those requested. One of the instructions requested by the defendants was as follows: "If the jury believe
from the evidence that the United States is in the possession
of the property in controversy, through its officers and agents
charged with the control of the same; that the defendants

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

occupy the same only as such officers and agents, in obedience
to orders of the War Department of the United States, and
making no claim of right to the title or possession thereof,
except as such officers; that the United States is using the
same as a national cemetery for the burial of deceased soldiers,
and as a fort and reserve connected therewith, claiming the
title thereto under the certificate of sale proved in this cause ;
then the verdict must be for the defendants." The court refused this instruction, and gave the following: "If the jury
believe from the evidence that at the institution of this suit
the premises in controversy were, or that any part thereof was,
under the charge and in the occupation or possession of the
defendants Strong and Kaufman, or either of them, under the
direction of the government of the United States, or of any
department or officer thereof, then such occupation or possession is .sufficient to enable the plaintiff to maintain his action
against them respectively for the premises so occupied or
possessed by them respectively."
The court submitted the case to the jury under further instructions, which permitted them to find for the plaintiff upon
the ground that the certificate of sale for taxes was invalid as
against him, and had vested no legal title in the United States.
The jury returned a verdict, upon which judgment was rendered, that the plaintiff recover possession of the premises,
partly against Kaufman and partly against Strong. Writs of
error were sued out by the United States, and by Kaufman
and Strong, and the case has been argued upon both these
writs of error.
This is not an action of trespass to recover damages only.
Nor is it an action to recover property violently and suddenly
wrested from the owner by officers of the government without
its directions and without color of title in the government.
But it is brought to recover possession of land which the United
States have for years held, and still hold, for military and other
public purposes, claiming title under a certificate of sale for
direct taxes, which is declared by the act of Congress of June 7,
1862, c. 98, sect. 7, to be prima fade evidence of the regularity and validity of the sale and of the title of the purchaser, and
which has been defined by this court as a "public act which is
VOL.

Xvx.

15

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[8up. Ot.

the equivalent of office found." Bennett v. Hunter, 9 Wall.
326, 336.
The principles upon which we are of opinion that the court
below had no authority to try the question of the validity of
the title of the United States in this action, and that this court
has therefore no authority to pass upon that question, may be
briefly stated.
The sovereign is not liable to be sued in any judicial tribunal
without its consent. The sovereign cannot hold property except by agents. To maintain an action for the recovery of
possession of property held by the sovereign through its agents,
not claiming any title or right in themselves, but only as the
representatives of the sovereign and in its behalf, is to maintain
an action to recover possession of the property against the
sovereign; and to invade such possession of the agents, by execution or other judicial process, is to invade the possession of
the sovereign, and to disregard the fundamental maxim that the
sovereign cannot be sued.
That maxim is not limited to a monarchy, but is of equal
force in a republic. In the one, as in the other, it is essential
to the common defence and general welfare that the sovereign
should not, without its consent, be dispossessed by judicial process of forts, arsenals, military posts, and ships of war, necessary to guard the national existence against insurrection and
invasion; of custom-houses and revenue cutters, employed in
the collection of the revenue; or of light-houses and light-ships,
established for the security of commerce with foreign nations
and among the different parts of the country.
These principles appear to us to be axioms of public law,
which would need no reference to authorities in their support,
were it not for the exceeding importance and interest of the
case, the great ability with which it has been argued, and the
difference of opinion that has been manifested as to the extent
and application of the precedents.
The exemption of the United States from being impleaded
without their consent is, as has often been affirmed by this court,
as absolute as that of the Crown of England or any other sovereign. In Cokens v. T7irginia,6 Wheat. 264,411, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall said: "The universally received opinion is, that

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

no suit can be commenced or prosecuted against the United
States." In Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How. 527, 529, Mr. Chief Justice Taney said : "It is an established principle of jurisprudence
in all civilized nations that the sovereign cannot be sued in its
own courts, or in any other, without its consent and permission;
but it may, if it thinks proper, waive this privilege, and permit
itself to be made a defendant in a suit by individuals, or by
another State; and as this permission is altogether voluntary on
the part of the sovereignty, it follows that it may prescribe the
terms and conditions on which it consents to be sued, and the
manner in which the suit shall be conducted, and may with,
draw its consent whenever it may suppose that justice to the
public requires it." In the same spirit, Mr. Justice Davis,
delivering the judgment of the court in Nichols v. United States,
7 Wall. 122, 126, said: "Every government has an inherent
right to protect itself against suits, and if, in the liberality of
legislation, they are permitted, it is only on such terms and
conditions as are prescribed by statute. The principle is
fundamental, applies to every sovereign power, and, but for
the protection which it affords, the government would be
unable to perform the various duties for which it was created."
See also United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436, 444; Cary v.
Curtis, 3 How. 236, 245, 256 ; United States v. IlTcLemore,
4 id. 286, 289; Hill v. United States, 9 id. 386, 389; _Reeside v.
Walker, 11 id. 272, 290; De Groot v. United States, 5 Wall.
419, 431; United States v. lEckford, 6 id. 484, 488; The Siren,
7 id. 152, 154; The Davis, 10 id. 15, 20; United States v.
O'Keefe, 11 id. 178; Case v. Terrell, id. 199, 201; Carr v.
United States, 98 U. S. 433, 437; United States v. Thompson,
id. 486, 489; Railroad Company v. Tennessee, 101 id. 337 ;
Railroad Company v. Alabama, id. 832.
The English authorities from the earliest to the latest times
show that no action can be maintained to recover the title or
possession of land held by the crown by its officers or servants,
and leave no doubt that in a case like the one before us the
proceedings would be stayed at the suggestion of the AttorneyGeneral in behalf of the crown.
Our citations will be confined to the time since Magna
Charta, declared that no man should be taken or imprisoned,

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

or be disseized of his freehold or liberties or free customs, or be
outlawed or exiled or in any way destroyed, or be passed upon
or condemned, but by the lawful judgment of his peers, or by
the law of the land, - which is the origin of the provision,
embodied in the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, that no man shall be deprived of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law.
The earliest authority to be referred to is Bracton, who
wrote in the reign of Henry III., and who, in the famous
passage of his first book, affirms that the King ought not to
be subject to man, but to God and to the law, because the law
makes the King; and therefore the King should ascribe to the
law what the law ascribes to him, namely, dominion and power,
for there is no King where reigns will and not law. Ipse autem
rex non debet esse sub hornine, sed sub Deo et sub lege, quia lex
facit regem. Attribuat igitur rex legi, quod lex attribuit ei,
videlicet, dominium et potestatem, non est enim rex, ubi dominatur voluntas et non lex. Bract. 5 b.
Yet no one states more strongly than Bracton the exemption
of the King from being sued without his consent in such a case
as this; for he says that one who has been disseized by the
King, or by his bailiffs in his name, per dominum regem vel
ballivos suos nomine suo, or, as he elsewhere says, whom the
King, or any one in his behalf or in his name, aliquis pro eo vel
nomine suo, has ejected, cannot, even if the disseisin be manifest, prosecute an assise to recover possession of the land without the King's consent, but must await his pleasure whether
the assise shall proceed or not, expeetanda erit voluntas domini
regis quod procedat assisavel non proeedat. Bract. 168 b, 171 b,
212 a.
Lord Coke tells us that before the Statute of Westminster I.
(3 Edw. I.), c. 24, if an officer of the King, by mere color of
his office, and not by the King's command, disseized a man of
his freehold, the only remedy was by petition to the King;
and that it was to relieve against this evil that the statute
enacted that no escheator, sheriff, or other bailiff of the King,
"by color of his office, without special warrant or commandment, or authority certain pertaining to his office," should
disseize any man of his freehold, and that, if he should do so,

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED

STATES v. LEE.

the disseizee might at his election proceed either by petition to
the King, or by assise of novel disseisin at the common law,
and the officer should pay double damages to the plaintiff, and
a heavy fine to the King, for doing injury in his name to the
subject. 2 Inst. 206, 207. But when the entry of the officer
was by the King's command, though without authority of law,
that statute had no application.
Accordingly in Staunford's Exposition of the King's Prerogative, c. 22, it is laid down: " Petition is all the remedy
the subject hath when the King seizeth his land, or taketh
away his goods from him, having no title by order of his laws
so to do, in which case the subject for his remedy is driven to
sue unto his sovereign lord by way of petition ; for other remedy bath he not." Staunf. Prerog., fol. 72 b. "Also whereas
the King doth enter upon me, having no title by matter of
record or otherwise, and put me out, and detains the possession
from me, that I cannot have it again by entry without suit, I
have then no remedy but only by petition. But if I be suffered to enter, my entry is lawful, and no intrusion. Or if the
King grant over the lands to a stranger, then is my petition
determined, and I may now enter or have my assise by order
of the common law against the said stranger, being the King's
patentee." 1 " When his Highness seizeth by his absolute
power contrary to the order of his laws, although I have no
remedy against him for it but by petition, for the dignity's
sake of his person, yet when the cause is removed and a
common person bath the possession, then is my assise revived,
for now the patentee entereth by his own wrong and intrusion, and not by any title that the King giveth him, for
the King had never title nor possession to give in that case."
Fol. 74 b.
In the reign of Elizabeth, it was resolved by all the judges
of England, that "when the King was seized of any estate of
inheritance or freehold by any matter of record, be his title by
matter of record judicial or ministerial, or by conveyance of
record, or by matter in fact and found by office of record, he
who has right could not by the common law have any traverse
upon which he was to have amoveas manum, but was put to his
petition of right (in nature of his real action which he could

UNITED STATES V.

LEE.

[Sup. t

not have against the King, because the King by his writ cannot command himself) to be restored to his freehold and inheritance;" unless, indeed, the right of the party aggrieved
appeared by the same record, in which case be might by monstransde droit obtain an amoveas manum. Sadlers's Case, 4 Rep.
54 b, 55 a.
Lord Hale enumerates, among the relative prerogatives of
the crown, the prerogative "of his possessions, - that no man
can enter upon him, but is driven to his suit by petition."
Hale's Analysis of the Law, sect. 9.
The law laid down in the early authorities is stated in the
same way in the Digest of Chief Baron Comyns, written in
the first half of the last century, and in Chitty on the Prerogative of the Crown, published in 1820; and Mr. Chitty
treats the action of ejectment as equivalent in this aspect to
the ancient form of proceeding by assise. Com. Dig. Prerogative, D. 78 ; Chit. Prerog. 339-343, and note c.
In The Queen v. Powell, 1 Q. B. 352; S. 0. 4 Per. & Day.
719, a writ of mandamus to admit to a copyhold tenement of
a manor belonging to the crown having been directed to the
steward alone, it was contended for the prosecutor that a previous decision, requiring the writ to be directed to the lord of
the manor as well as to the steward, applied only to cases
where the lord of the manor was a subject, and that, inasmuch
as there could be no mandamus to the sovereign, the writ must
go against the steward alone. But Lord Denman, with the
concurrence of Justices Littledale, Williams, and Coleridge,
quashed the writ of mandamus; and, after observing that
-doubtless there could be no mandamus to the sovereign, but
that the interests of the crown were to be as much guarded as
those of the subject, said: "And if the interests of the crown
cannot so effectually be protected by a writ against the steward
alone, it is a very strong reason to show that such a writ cannot be sustained. Indeed, if it were allowed, it is not certain
of being effectual; for if the advisers of the crown were of
opinion that its interests might be affected, and were to advise
the sovereign either to order the steward not to admit the
prosecutor of the mandamus/or to revoke the appointment of
the steward, this court could not grant an attachment against

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

the steward, and then the party does not get admitted. And,
indeed, if we were to allow a mandamus to the steward alone,
and the writ were obeyed, the property of the crown would be
affected indirectly by the mandamus to the steward alone,
when it cannot be affected directly by making the sovereign a
party to the mandamus." "But in the case where there is
a complaint on the part of a subject against the crown in any
matter whatever, the course is to proceed by petition of right,
or else by mon8trans de droit, or traverse of office, as the case
may require. These proceedings have been recognized and
acknowledged for many centuries. Such proceedings are now
very much out of use; and few instances in modern times have
occurred where they have been resorted to; but still they are
what must be resorted to if any dispute arises. They are probably expensive and tedious; but these considerations are not
sufficient for our dispensing with them; we have no more
authority, for the sake of convenience, to lay them aside and
introduce writs or other proceedings which are usually adopted
between subject and subject, amongst which these writs of mandamus are to be reckoned, than to introduce writs and other
proceedings, now solely used in cases of prerogative, in causes
between subject and subject."
In Te Queen v. Commissioners of the Treasury, Law Rep.
7 Q. B. 387, 394, in which the court refused to grant a writ of
mandamus to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury to pay
over money in their bands as servants of the crown, Lord Chief
Justice Cockburn said that it did not follow, because the prosecutor had no remedy except that of applying by petition to the
crown, or by petition to Parliament, that the court could issue
a writ of mandamus; and added: "I take it, with reference to
that jurisdiction, we must start with this unquestionable principle, that when a duty has to be performed (if I may use that
expression) by the crown, this court cannot claim, even in
appearance, to have any power to command the crown; the
thing is out of the question. Over the sovereign we can have
no power. In like manner where the parties are acting as
servants of the crown, and are amenable to the crown, whose
servants they are, they are not amenable to us in the exercise
of our prerogative jurisdiction."

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

In Doe v. Roe, 8 Mee. & W. 579 ; s. 0. Hurlst. & W. 159,
which was an action of ejectment for a house and lands
adjoining Hurst Castle, the declaration had been served upon
one Watson and upon the Board of Ordnance. On motion
of the Attorney-General in behalf of the crown, supported
by affidavits that the castle was an hereditary possession
of the crown of England, and that the premises sought to be
recovered were in possession of the crown, by Watson, who
had been placed, by authority of the Board of Ordnance, as
master gunner in charge of the defences of the castle, which
commanded the passage of the Needles, the Court of Exchequer ordered the declaration to be set aside and all further
proceedings stayed. It was contended for the plaintiff that
technically the action was trespass against Roe; and that the
argument on the other side would go the length of showing
that in any case where the defendant in ejectment made an
affidavit that the title of the crown came into question the
plaintiff would have no resource but in his petition of right.
Whereupon the court made these observations: "Lord Abinger, C. B. The real question is, Can an ejectment be tried,
the effect of which may be to turn the crown out of possession ? Alderson, B. The declaration is served on a persou
occupying as the servant of the crown; this case is not like
the case put of lands held under the Woods and Forests;
the present difficulty only arises when, supposing the plaintiff to succeed, the crown would be turned out of possession."
iHurlst. & W. 160. At .the close of the argument, Lord
Abinger said: " It is quite clear the court could not issue any
process to turn the crown out of possession ; and the only
doubt I had was, whether this property was not, by the operation of the act of Parliament, in the possession, not of the
crown, but of the Board of Ordnance. But on looking more
fully into the act, my doubt is entirely removed." Baron Alderson said: "I am of the same opinion. ' No ejectment can
be maintained against the crown, to turn the crown out of
possession by the authority of the crown itself." And Baron
Rolfe (afterwards Lord Chancellor Craniworth) added: "The
question may be tested thus: suppose there were no trial, but
judgment went against the casual ejector; then there would

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

only be a writ to turn the crown out of possession, which
clearly cannot be." 8 Mee. & W. 582, 583.
The same rule, as well as the essential distinction in actions
brought against a servant of the crown holding possession in
behalf of the crown, between an action of trespass to recover
damages, which might be suffered to proceed (although the
crown might have it removed for that purpose into the Court
of Exchequer), and an action of ejectment to recover possession of the land itself, which must be absolutely stayed on
motion of the Attorney-General, is clearly recognized in two
cases of trespass to recover damages against officers of the
crown, removed upon application of the Attorney-General into
the Office of Pleas of the Exchequer for trial. Cawthorne v.
Campbell, I Anstr. 205, 215; Attorney- General v. Hallett, 15
Mee. & W. 97.
In Cawthorne v. Campbell, Chief Baron Eyre, speaking of acase, decided in 1710, of an ejectment brought in the Court of
Queen's Bench for lands which were part of the Queen's estate,
said: " There was an application to this court to stay the
proceedings, and the parties were heard upon it. The Attorney-General attended, and after the hearing it was put off for
a day or two. At length the entry is, that an injunction issued
pro domina regina. So that the action was not removed, but
simply an injunction went to stay the proceedings. And I
think I can see why that was: if the action had been removed,
the, question could not have been tried, even in the Office of
Pleas, because you cannot try the Queen's title in an ejectment. The Queen was in possession; her hands must be
removed by some other course of proceeding than an ejectment; and therefore it was fruitless to think of removing it,
and it remained under an injunction."
So in Attorney-General v. Hfallett, a case of trespass quare
elausumfregit, in which the defendant pleaded that the Queen
was seized in right of her crown of the locus in quo, Chief
Baron Pollock said: "The action of ejectment is prima facie
an action merely between subject and subject, and relates to
land; yet the prerogative of the crown applies to that; and
if the interest of the crown is concerned, an action of ejectment may be removed into this court. It may be said, how-

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Ot.

ever, that that does not amount to an authority, because the
action does not go on; the reason of that is, that in this court
an action of ejectment will not lie against the crown. The
party must proceed by a petition of right. In an action of
ejectment, we remove it, although we thereby actually extinguish the action; and therefore that is rather an a fortiori
argument for removing this cause, which is sought to be removed for the express purpose of going on with it." Barons
Parke, Alderson, and Platt concurred; and Baron Platt clearly
distinguished the case of a defendant holding possession in
behalf of the crown from that of a defendant claiming a right
in himself only, though under a grant from the crown, saying:
"If the Queen herself is in possession, no subject can maintain
ejectment against her; the only mode of proceeding is by petition of right. If the subject is in possession, claiming a right
under the crown, then the ejectment may be maintained; but,
at the suggestion of the Attorney-General, the proceeding
would be brought into this court."
There is a close analogy between these cases and -the case at
bar. Any action, personal or real, against officers of the sovereign, who justify under a revenue- law, may be removed in
England into the Court of Exchequer, and under the acts of
Congress into the Circuit Court of the United States. If it is
an action of tort to recover damages only, it may there proceed
to trial. But if it is an action to recover possession of land,
which is in fact held by the sovereign through its officers And
agents, and that fact is in due form made known to the court,
the proceedings must be stayed.
An action of ejectment brought, as this was, under the Code
of Virginia of 1878, c. 131, affects the title to land more than
the action of ejectment in England. By that code, the action
may not only be brought as before, but it is also made a substitute for the writ of right and all other real actions. Sects. 1,
2, 38. It must be brought by and in the name of a person
having a subsisting interest in the premises, and a right to
recover the premises or the possession thereof ; and against the
person actually occupying the premises, or, if they are not
occupied, against some person exercising acts of ownership
therein, or claiming title thereto or some interest therein.

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

Sects. 4-6. The only plea allowed is the general issue, that
the defendant is not guilty of unlawfully withholding the
premises claimed. Sect. 13. The declaration must describe
the premises with such certainty that from the description
possession can be delivered; and it must state, and the verdict
must find, whether the plaintiff's estate is in fee, or for life and
whose life, or for years and the duration of the term. Sects.
8, 9, 27. Judgment for the plaintiff is that he recover the
possession of the premises according to the verdict, if there is
one, or, if on default or demurrer, according to the description
in the declaration. Sect. 29. Several judgments may be recovered against several defendants occupying distinct parcels
of the land. Sect. 17. And the judgment is conclusive as to
the title or right of possession, established in the action, upon
the party against whom it is rendered, and all persons claiming
under him by title accruing after the commencement of the
action. Sect. 35.
The principle that no sovereign, can be sued without its consent applies equally to foreign sovereigns and to the sovereign
of the country in which the suit is brought. The exemption
of the sovereign is not less regarded by its own courts than by
the courts of other sovereigns. To repeat the words of Chief
Justice Taney, already quoted: "It is an established principle
of jurisprudence in all civilized nations, that the sovereign cannot be sued in its own courts, or in any other, without its consent and permission."
In the leading case of The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116, the exemption of a foreign sovereign from being sued in our courts
was held to protect one of his public armed vessels from being
libelled here in a court of admiralty by citizens of the United
States, to whom she had belonged, and from whom she had
been forcibly taken in a foreign port by his order. The district attorney of the United States having filed a suggestion,
verified by affidavit, that she was a public armed vessel of the
Emperor of the French, and actually employed in his service at
the time of entering our ports, the Circuit Court, disregarding
the suggestion, entered a decree for the libellants. But upon
an appeal taken by the attorney of the United States, this
court, without any inquiry into the title, reversed the decree

UNIT.ED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. Gt.

and dismissed the libel; and Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in
delivering judgment said: "There seems to be a necessity for
admitting that the fact might be disclosed to the court by the
suggestion of the attorney for the United States."
In Tavasseur v. Krupp, 9 Ch. D. 351, the Mikado of Japan,
a sovereign prince, bought in Germany shells, made there, but
said to be infringements of an English patent. They were
brought to England, in order to be put on board a ship of war
belonging to the Mikado, and the patentee obtained an injunction against the agents of the Mikado and the persons in whose
custody the shells were, restraining them from removing the
shells. The Mikado then applied to be, and was, made a defendant in the suit. An order was made by Sir George Jessel,
Master of the Rolls, and affirmed by the Court of Appeal, that
notwithstanding the injunction, the Mikado should be at liberty
to remove the shells. Lord Justice James said: "I am of
opinion that this attempt on the part of the plaintiff to interfere with the right of a foreign sovereign to deal with his
public property is one of the boldest I have ever heard of as
made in any court in this country." And, after stating the
contention of the plaintiff that the shells were in the possession
of persons in England who were minded to make, and did
make, a use of them inconsistent with his patent, he further
said: "If they were doing so, then they are liable'in an action
for damages, and the plaintiff may recover any damages that he
may be entitled to. But that does not interfere with the right
of the sovereign of Japan, who now asks to be allowed to take
his property." Lord Justice Brett said: "The goods were the
property of the Mikado. They were his property as a sovereign; they were the property of his country; and therefore he
is in the position of a foreign sovereign having property here."
"If it is an infringement of the patent by the Mikado, you
cannot sue him for that infringement. If it is an infringement
by the agents, you may sue the agents for that infringement,
but then it is the agents whom you sue." "The Mikado has
a perfect right to have these goods; no court in this country
can properly prevent him from having goods which are the
public property of his own country."
In the case of The Parlement Belge, 5 P. D. 197, the Court

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

of Appeal held that an unarmed packet, belonging to the King
of the Belgians, and in the hands of officers commissioned by
him, and employed in carrying mails, and also in carrying
merchandise and passengers for hire, was not liable to be seized
in a suit in rem to recover damages for a collision. Lord Justice Brett, in a considered judgment, stated the real question
to be "whether every part of the public property of every
sovereign authority in use for national purposes is not as much
exempt from the jurisdiction of every court as is the person of
every sovereign ;" and, after reviewing mary American as well
as English cases, announced the conclusion of the court thus:
"As a consequence of the absolute independence of every
sovereign authority, and of the international comity which
induces every sovereign State to respect the independence of
every other sovereign State, each and every one declines to
exercise by means of any of its courts any of its territorial
jurisdiction over the person of any sovereign or ambassador of
any other State, or over the public property of any State which
is destined to its public use, or over the property of any ambassador, though such sovereign, ambassador, or property be
within its territory, and therefore, but for the common agreement, subject to its jurisdiction. This proposition would determine the first question in the present case in favor of the
protest, even if an action in rem were held to be a proceeding
solely against property, and not a procedure directly or indirectly impleading the owner of the property to answer to the
judgment of the court. But we cannot allow it to be supposed
that in our opinion the owner of the property is not indirectly
impleaded." After stating the mode of procedure in courts of
admiralty, he continued: " To implead an independent sovereign in such a way is to call upon him to sacrifice either his
property or his independence. To place him in that position
is a breach of the principle upon which his immunity from
jurisdiction rests. We think that he cannot be so indirectly
impleaded, any more than he could be directly impleaded. The
case is, upon this consideration of it, brought within the general
rule that a sovereign authority cannot be personally impleaded
in any court."
It was argued at the bar that the petition of right in England

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Slip. Ot.

was in effect a suit against the crown. But the petition of
right could never be maintained except after an application to
the King and his consent granted. The sovereign thus retained
the power of determining in advance in every case whether it
was consistent with the public interests to allow the suit to be
brought and tried in the ordinary courts of justice. The petition might be presented either to the King in person, or in
Parliament; and if sued in Parliament, it might be enacted
and pass as an act of Parliament. Staunf. Prerog. 72 b; Chit.
Prerog. 346. The old form of proceeding by petition of right
to the King was so tedious and expensive that it fell into disuse;
and there is hardly an instance in which it was resorted to in
England between the settlement of the colonies and the Declaration of Independence, or for half a century afterwards.
Clayton v. Attorney- General, 1 Coop. temp. Cottenham, 97, 120 ;
The Queen v. Powell, 1 Q. B. 353, 363', and 4 Per. & Day. 719,
723, above quoted; Canterbury v. Attorney- General, 1 Phillips,
306, 327; De Bode's Case, 8 Q. B. 208, 273. The granting of
the royal consent as a matter of course is but of very modern
introduction in England. Eastern Archipelago Co. v. Th7e
Queen, 2 El. & Bl. 856, 914. And the statute of 23 & 24 Vict.,
c. 34, simplifying and regulating the proceedings, makes it the
duty of the Secretary of State for the Home Department to lay
the petition before the Queen for her consideration, and to give
her his advice upon it; and if upon his advice she refuses to grant
her fiat, the suppliant is without remedy. Irwin v. Grey, 3 F.
& F. 635, 637; Tobin. v. The Queen, 14 C. B. N. S. 505, 521, and
16 id. 310, 368. In United States v. O'Keefe, 1-1 Wall. 178,
184, in which it was held that British subjects were included
in the act of Congress of July 27, 1868, c. 276, allowing suits
for the proceeds of captured and abandoned property to be
brought in the Court of Claims "by aliens who are citizens or
subjects of any government which accords to citizens of the
United States the right to prosecute claims against such government in its courts," this court, speaking of the English petition
of right, said : "It is easy to see that cases might arise, involving political considerations, in which it would be eminently
proper for the sovereign to withhold his permission."
The English remedies of petition of right monstrans de droit,

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

and traverse of office, were never introduced into this country
as part of our common law; but in the American Colonies and
States claims upon the government were commonly made by
petition to the legislature. The inadequacy or the want of
those remedies is no reason for maintaining a suit against the
sovereign, in a form which is usual between private citizens,
but which has not been expressly granted to them as against
the sovereign. Te Queen v. Powell, above quoted; Gibbons v.
United States, 8 Wall. 269.
In particular classes of cases, indeed, Congress has authorized
suits in equity to be brought against the United States; as, for
instance, in cases of delinquent receivers of public money against
whom a warrant of distress has been issued, in cases of proprietors of land taken and sold to make certain improvements
in the city of Washington (in which the bill is spoken of as "in
the nature of a petition of right"), and in claims to share in
the money received from Mexico under the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo. See United States v. Nourse, 6 Pet. 470, and 9 id. 8;
JrIurray v. Hboken Land Co., 18 How. 272, 284; Van Ness v.
lVashington, 4 Pet. 232, 276, 277; Clark v. Clark, 17 How.
315, 820. So it has often authorized suits to be brought
against the United States to confirm claims, under grants from
foreign governments, to lands since ceded to the United States.
But in such a suit Chief Justice Marshall said: "As the United
States are not suable of common right, the party who institutes
such suit must bring his case within the authority of some act
of Congress, or the court cannot exercise jurisdiction over it."
United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436, 444.
For more than sixty years after the adoption of the Constitution, no general provision was made by law for determining
claims against the United States; and in every act concerning
the Court of Claims Congress has defined the classes of claims
which might be made, the conditions on which they might be
presented, the forms of proceeding, and the effect to be given
to the awards. The act of Feb. 24, 1855, c. 122, which first
established that court, required an act of Congress to carry out
each award. The act of March 3, 1863, c. 92, which dispensed
with that requirement, authorized the sums due by the judgments of the Court of Claims, after presentation of a copy

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Or.

thereof to the Secretary of the Treasury and his estimate of an
appropriation therefor, to be paid out of any general appropriation made by law for the satisfaction of private claims. Even
under this act the Court of Claims had so little of the nature
of a judicial tribunal, that this court declined to entertain appeals from its decisions, although the statute expressly gave
such an appeal. Gordon v. United States, 2 Wall. 561; s. c.
5 Am. Law Reg. lN. s. 111. It is only since the act of March
17, 1866, c. 19, has repealed the provision which by necessary
implication authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to revise
the decisions of the Court of Claims, and of this court on
appeal, that this court has considered and determined such
appeals.
Under the existing statutes, the principal classes of demands
submitted to the determination of the Court of Claims are
claims founded on laws of Congress, on regulations of the executive departments, and on contracts, expressed or implied,
and claims referred to the court by Congress. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 1059. The proceeding by petition to Congress and reference by Congress to the Court of Claims presents the nearest
analogy that our law affords to the petition of right. No act
of Congress has conferred upon that court, or upon any other
tribunal, general jurisdiction of suits against the United States
to recover possession of real property, or to redress a tort.
And the act of Congress of June 11, 1864, c. 117 (re-enacted in
sect. 3753 of the Revised Statutes), authorizing the Secretary
of the Treasury to direct a stipulation, to the extent of the
value of the interest of the United States, to be entered into
for the discharge of any property owned or held by the United
States, or in which the United States have or claim an interest,
which has been seized or attached in any judicial proceeding
under the laws of a State, expressly provides "that nothing
herein contained shall be considered as recognizing or conceding any right to enforce by seizure, arrest, attachment, or any
judicial process, any claim against any property of the United
States, or against any property held, owned, or employed by
the United States, or by any department thereof, for any public use, or as waiving any objection to any proceeding instituted
to enforce any such claim."

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

In Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall. 269, which was an
attempt to maintain in the Court of Claims a suit against the
government as upon an implied contract, for unauthorized acts
of its officers which were in themselves torts, the court said:
"The supposition that the government will not pay its debts,
or will not do justice, is not to be indulged;" and, after stating
the reasons against the maintenance of the suit, concluded:
"These reflections admonish us to be cautious that we do not permit the decisions of this court to become authority for the righting, in the Court of Claims, of all wrongs done to individuals by
the officers of the general government, though they may have
been committed while serving that government, and in the
belief that it was for its interest. In such cases, where it is
proper for the nation to furnish a remedy, Congress has wisely
reserved the matter for its own determination." In, Langford
v. United States, 101 U. S. 341, the remarks just quoted were
repeated, and were applied to the ease of a suit for the use and
occupation of land which the United States, under a claim of
title, had, through its Indian agents, taken possession of and
since held by force and against the will of the rightful owner.
If it is proper that the United States should allow themselves
to be sued in such a case as this, public policy requires that it
should rest with Congress to define the mode of proceeding, the
conditions on which it may be maintained, and the manner
in which the decision shall be enforced, - none of which can
be done if the citizen has an absolute right to maintain the
action.
If the plaintiff is entitled to judgment, it can only be upon
the ground that the United States are not a party to the record,
and have no such relation to the action that their possession of
the land demanded will prevent judgment against the defendants of record. If those defendants alone are to be held to be
parties or interested, the plaintiff is entitled, as of right, to
immediate execution as well as to judgment; and the court has
no discretion to stay an execution between private parties on
considerations of the interests of the public.
To maintain this action, independently of any legislation by
Congress, is to declare that the exemption of the United States
from being impleaded without their consent does not embrace
VOL. xVI.

16

UNITED STATES v0. LEE.

[Sup.* 0t.

lands held by a disputed title; to defeat the exemption from
judicial process in the very cases in which it is of the utmost
importance to the public that it should be upheld; and to compel the United States to submit to the determination of courts
and juries the 'validity of their title to any land held and used
for military, naval, commercial, revenue, or police purposes.
The decision of this court and the reasoning of the several
judges in the case of Chisholm v. Georgia,2 Dall. 419, in which
a majority of the court held that under the Constitution, as
originally adopted, a suit could be maintained in this court
against a State by a citizen of another State, do not appear to
us to furnish much aid in the determination of this case, for
several reasons: 1st, Each of the judges who mentioned the
subject declined to affirm that the United States could be sued.
2 Dall. 430, 469, 478. 2d, The decision was based on a construction of the words of the Constitution conferring jurisdiction of suits between "a State and citizens of another State."
3d, That construction was set aside by the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution, which declares that "the judicial
power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to
any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted against one
of the United States by citizens of another State, or by citizens
or subjects of any foreign State." 2 Dall. 480, note; Hollingsworth v. Virginia, 3 Dall. 378.
In those cases in which judgments have since been rendered
by this court against individuals concerning money or property
in which a State had an interest, either the money was in the
personal possession of the defendants and not in the possession
of the State, or the suit was to restrain the defendants by injunction from doing acts in violation of the Constitution of the
United States. Within one or both of these classes fall the
cases of United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115; Osborn v.
Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Davis v. Gray, 16
Wall. 203; and Board of Liquidation v. Me Comb, 92 U. S.
531.
In United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115, in which a writ
of mandamus was ordered to a District Court of the United
States sitting in admiralty to issue an attachment against the
executrixes of David Rittenhouse to enforce obedience to a de-

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

cree of that court for the payment of money (although Rittenhouse had been treasurer of the State of Pennsylvania, and the
legislature of that State had directed its Attorney-General to
sue the executrixes for the recovery of the money, and the
Governor to protect them against any process of the Federal
courts), the judgment of this court, as stated by Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall, went upon the ground that it was apparent
that Rittenhouse held the money in his own right,, and that
"the suit was not instituted against the State or its treasurer,
but against the executrixes of David Rittenhouse, for the proceeds of a vessel condemned in the Court of Admiralty, which
were admitted to be in their possession. If these proceeds
had been the actual property of Pennsylvania, however wrongfully acquired, the disclosure of that fact would have presented
a case on which it is unnecessary to give an opinion; but it
certainly can never be alleged that a mere suggestion of title
in a State to property, in possession of an individual, must arrest the proceedings of the court, and prevent their looking into
the suggestion, and examining the validity of the title." The
Chief Justice stated the conclusion of the court as' follows:
"Since, then, the State of Pennsylvania had neither possession
of, nor right to, the property on which the sentence of the District Court was pronounced, and since the suit was neither
commenced nor prosecuted against that State, there remains no
pretext for the allegation that the case is within that amendment of the Constitution which has been cited; and, consequently, the State of Pennsylvania can possess no constitutional
right to resist the legal process which may be directed in this
cause."
The Chief Justice thus carefully avoided expressing an
opinion upon a case in which the money sued for was in the
possession of the State, or "the actual property of the State,
however wrongfully acquired;" and his remark upon the effect
of a mere suggestion of title in the State in a suit to recover
"property in possession of an individual," as well as his
similar remark in Osborn i. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat.
738, 870, as to the effect of a suggestion of title in a foreign
sovereign under like circumstances, can have no application
where it is in due form pleaded or suggested, and satisfactorily

244

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. ot.

proved or admitted, that the property is in the possession of the
State or the sovereign, tinder claim and color of title, though
that possession is necessarily held in its behalf by its officers or
servants, as appears by his own judgment in the case of The
Exchange, as well as by the cases in the Co'urt of Exchequer,
before cited.
In Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, the bill
was originally filed by the Bank of the United States against
the auditor of the State of Ohio and a-collector employed by
him, to prevent them from levying a tax imposed by the legislature of that State in violation of the Constitution of the
United States upon the property of the bank; and they, after
the service of the subpcena, forcibly took from the plaintiff's
office the amount of the tax in money, and paid it over to the
treasurer of the State, who received it with notice of these
facts, and kept it apart from other money belonging to the
State, so that, in the view taken by the court, it had never
come into the possession of the State, but could have been
recovered from the treasurer in an action of detinue. 9 Wheat.
833-836, 854, 858. By an amendment of the bill the treasurer was made a defendant. Such were the facts upon which the
court, by one of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall's most elaborate
judgments, in which the-case was admitted to be one of great
difficulty, ordered the defendants to restore the money, and
held that the fact that the State was not, and could not be,
without its consent, made a defendant, afforded no objection to
granting such relief.
The dictum of the learned justice who delivered the opinion
'In Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 220, that in Osborn v. Bank of
United States it was decided that, in cases in which a State is
concerned, "that it cannot be made a party is a sufficient
reason for the omission to do it, and the court may proceed to
decre against the officers of the State in all respects as if the
State were a party to the record," overstates the decision in
Osborn's case; goes beyond what was required for the decision
of Davis v. Gray, in which the object of the suit and the whole
effect of the decree were to prevent the Governor and the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office of the State of Texas
from signing patents for lands of which the plaintiff had the

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

title under a previous grant from the State; and, as the State
cannot hold money or property otherwise than by its officers
and agents, would, if understood as laying down a universal
rule, practically nullify the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution.
In Board of Liquidation v. MeComb, 92 U. S. 531, in which
an injunction was granted to restrain the Board of Liquidation,
consisting of the Governor and other officers, of the State of
Louisiana from issuing or using, in violation of a previous contract of the State with the plaintiff, bonds of the State in their
hands, the court said that the objections to proceeding by
injunction were, "first, that it is, in effect, proceeding against
the State itself; and, secondly, that it interferes with the
official discretion vested in the officers. It is conceded that
neither of these things can be done. A State, without its consent, cannot be sued by an individual; and a court cannot substitute its own discretion for that of executive officers in matters
belonging to the proper jurisdiction of the latter." And the
ground upon which the bill in that case, as well as in the previous cases of Osborn v. Bank of United States and Davis v.
Gray, was sustained, was defined to be, that when a plain
official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is threatened
to be violated by some positive official act, any person who will
sustain personal injury thereby, for which adequate compensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to prevent
it, notwithstanding the officer pleads the authority of an unconstitutional, and therefore void, law for the violation of his duty.
The case of The Governor of Georgia v. Mladrazo, 1 Pet.
110, does not appear to us to have any important bearing, except
as tending to illustrate the distinction between the possession
of the State by its agents, and the possession of the agents in
their own right. The decision was, that where negro slaves
were illegally taken from the 6 wner on the high seas, and
afterwards sold to a stranger, who, without the privity of the
owner, imported them into the United States in violation of
the act of Congress of March 2, 1807, c. 22, and they were
here seized by an officer of the customs of the United States,
and delivered to an agent appointed by the Governor of the State
of Georgia in conformity with the act of Congress, and some

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

[Sup. t

of them sold by order of the Governor of the State, and the
money obtained at the sale was, in the words of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, "actually in the Treasury of the State, mixed
up with its general funds," and the rest of the slaves remained
in the hands of the agent of the Sta'te, "in possession of the
government," a libel in admiralty by the owner to recover
possession of the money and slaves, though not brought against
the State by name, but against the Governor in his official
capacity, was a suit against the State, and therefore, by reason
of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution, could not be
maintained. See also Ex parte Madrazzo, 7 Pet. 627.
In the case, on which the plaintiff principally relies, of 11teigs
v. oH'Clung, 9 Cranch, 11, in which a Circuit Court of the
United States, and this court on writ of error, gave judgment
for the plaintiff in an action of ejectment for land held by the
defendants as officers and under the authority of the United
States, the full statement of their positioli in the bill of exceptions, on page 13 of the report, clearly shows that the fact that
they so held the land was not set up in defence, except as
supplemental to the position that the legal title to the land
was in the United States; and it does not appear to have been
mentioned in argument. No objection to the exercise of jurisdiction was made by the defendants or by the United States,
or noticed by the court. That the court understood the United
States to desire a decision upon the merits is further apparent
from Mr. Chief Justice Marshall's summary towards the close
of the opinion, " The land is certainly the property of the plaintiff below; and the United States cannot have intended to deprive him of it by violence and without compensation." Had
the decision covered the question of jurisdiction, the Chief
Justice would hardly have omitted to refer to it in Osborn v.
Bank of United States, above stated.
In Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, in Brown v. Huger, 21
How. 305, and in Grisarv. lcDowell, 6 Wall. 363, which were
also actions of ejeetment against officers of the United States,
the judgments were in favor of the defendants on the merits, no
suggestion that the United States were so interested that the
action could not be maintained was made by counsel or passed
upon by this court, and that the co irt has not hitherto under-

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

stood any such question to be settled by any or all of those
cases is clearly shown by its more recent judgments.
In the case of The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, the court said: "It is a
familiar doctrine of the common law, that the sovereign cannot
be sued in his own courts without his consent. The doctrine
rests upon reasons of public policy; the inconvenience and
danger which would follow from any different rule. It is
obvious that the public service would be hindered, and the
public safety endangered, if the supreme authority could be
subjected to suit at the instance of every citizen, and consequently controlled in the use and disposition of the means
required for the proper administration of the government. The
exemption from direct suit is therefore without exception.
This doctrine of the common law is equally applicable to the
supreme authority of the nation, -the United States. They
cannot be subjected to legal proceedings at law or in equity
without their consent; and whoever institutes such proceedings must bring his case within the authority of some act
of Congress.
Such is the language of this court in United
States v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 444. The same exemption from judicial process extends to the property of the United States,
and for the same reasons. As justly observed by the learned
judge who tried this case, there is no distinction between
suits against the government alirectly, and suits against its
property."
In the case of The Davis, 10 Wall. 15, the court, stating the
doctrine somewhat less broadly, yet affirmed the proposition, as
clearly established by authority, that "no suit in rem can be
maintained against the property of the United States when it
would be necessary to take such property out of the possession
of the government by any writ or process of the court;" and
in discussing the question, what constitutes a possession which
protects the property from the process of the court, said: "We
are speaking now of a possession which can only be changed
under process of the court by bringing the officer of the court
into collision with the officer of the government, if the latter
should choose to resist. The possession of the government can
only exist through some of its officers, using that phrase in the
seiise of any person charged on behalf of the government with

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

LSup. Ot.

the control of the property, coupled with its actual possession.
This, we think, is a sufficiently liberal definition of the possession of the property by the government to prevent any unseemly conflict between the court and the other departments of
the government, and which is consistent with the principle
which exempts the government from suit and its possession
from disturbance by virtue of judicial process."
In The Siren, a claim for damages against a prize ship for a
collision on her way from the place of capture to the port of
adjudication, was allowed out of the proceeds of her sale upon
condemnation, because the government was the actor in the
suit to have her condemned. In The Davis, a claim was allowed
for salvage of goods belonging to the United States in the
hands'of the master of a private vessel as a common carrier, because his possession was not the possession of the United States,
and the United States could only obtain the goods by coming
into court as claimant and actor. Each of those cases, as was
pointed out in Case v. Terrell, 11 Wall. 199, 201, was decided
upon the ground that "the government came into court of its
own volition to assert its claim to the property, and could
only do so on condition of recognizing the superior rights of
others."
In Carr v. United States, 98 U. S. 433, in which it was decided that judgments in ejectment against officers of the government, in possession in its behalf of lands held for a marine
hospital, did not bind nor estop the United States, it was said,
in the opinion of the court: "We consider it to be a fundamental principle that the government cannot be sued except
by its own consent; and certainly no State can pass a law
which would have any validity, for making the government
suable in its courts. It is conceded in The Siren, 7 Wall. 152,
and in The Davis, 10 id. 15, that without an act of Congress no
direct proceeding can be instituted against the government or
its property. And in the latter case it is justly observed that
' the possession of the government can only exist through its
officers; using that phrase in the sense of any person charged
on behalf of the government with the control of the property,
coupled with actual possession.' If a proc6eding would lie
against the officers as individuals in the case of a marine hospi-

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED

STATES v. LEE.

tal, it might be instituted with equal facility and right in
reference to a post-office or a custom-house, a prison or a fortification. In some cases (perhaps it was so in the present case)
it might not be apparent until after suit brought that the
possession attempted to be assailed was that of the government; but when this is made apparent by the pleadings, or the
proofs, the jurisdiction of the court ought to cease. Otherwise,
the government could always be compelled to come into court
and litigate with private parties in defence of its property."
The view on which this court appears to have constantly
acted, which reconciles all its decisions, and is in accord with
the English authorities, is this: The objection to the exercise
of jurisdiction over the sovereign or his property, in an action
in which he is not a party to the record, is in the nature of a
personal objection, which, if not suggested by the sovereign,
may be presumed not to be intended to be insisted upon. If
ejectment is brought by one citizen against another, the court
prihna facie has jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the
parties, and, if no objection is interposed in behalf of the sovereign, proceeds to judgment between the parties before it. If
the property is in the possession of the defendants and not of
the sovereign, an informal suggestion that it belongs to the
sovereign will not defeat the action. But if the sovereign, in
proper form and by sufficient proof, makes known to the court
that he insists upon his exemption from suit, and that the
property sued for is held by the nominal defendants exclusively
for him and on his behalf as public property, the right of the
plaintiff to prosecute the suit and the authority of the court to
exercise jurisdiction over it cease, and all further proceedings
must be stayed.
In the case at bar, the United States interposed in the most
solemn and appropriate manner. The Attorney-General, before
the trial, following the course approved by this court in the
case of The Exchange, and by the Court of Exchequer in the
case of Doe v. Roe, and other cases, already referred to, filed a
suggestion and motion in writing, in which, appearing only for
this purpose, he states that the land has been for more than ten
years, and still is, held, occupied, and possessed by the United
States, through their officers and agents charged in behalf of

UNITED STATES V. LEE.

[Sup. Ct.

the government of the United States, with the control of the
property, and who are in the actual possession thereof, as public
property of the United States for public uses, in the exercise of
their sovereign and constitutional powers, as a military station,
and as a national cemetery established for the burial of deceased
soldiers and sailors, known as the Arlington Cemetery, and for
war, military, charitable, and educational purposes, as set forth
in the certificate of sale of the land for non-payment of direct
taxes lawfully assessed thereon, a copy of which is annexed to
the suggestion. Wherefore, without submitting the rights of
the government of the United States to the jurisdiction of the
court, but insisting that the court bas no jurisdiction of the
subject in controversy, he moves that the declaration may be
set aside, and all the proceedings be stayed and dismissed, and
for such other order as may be proper. The plaintiff, by
demurring to this suggestion, admitted the truth of the facts
stated by the Attorney-General.
After these facts had been thus formally brought to the
notice of the court by the chief law officer of the United States,
and had been admitted by the plaintiff, we are of opinion that
the court had no authority to proceed to trial and judgment;
because the suit, which had been commenced against the individual defendants, was thenceforth prosecuted against the
United States; because in ejectment, as in other actions at law,
a court has no authority to render a judgment on which it has
no power to issue execution; because, as'was directly adjudged
in Oarr v. United States, 98 U. S. 433, above cited, no judgment against the defendants can bind or estop the United
States; because the possession of the defendants is in fact and
in law the possession of the United States, and the defendants
may at any moment be displaced and removed by the executive, and other custodians appointed and installed in their
stead; because to issue an execution against them would be to
issue an execution against the United States, and to turn the
United States out of possession of land held by the United
States, under claim of title and color of right for public purposes; and because to maintain a suit which has that object
and that result is to violate the fundamental principle that the
sovereign cannot be sued without its- consent, and to encroach

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. LEE.

upon the powers intrusted by the Constitution to the legislative and executive departments of the government.
The court having no authority to proceed with the suit, the
judgment afterwards rendered for the plaintiff was erroneous.
The United States, having the right to interpose, and having
interposed in due form, had an equal right to sue out a writ of
error to make their interposition effectual. This is plainly
shown by the case of The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 120, 147, before
cited. It follows that upon the writ of error sued out by the
United States the judgment below should be reversed, and the
case remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and to
dismiss the action.
As to Kaufman and Strong, the court erred in compelling
them to proceed to trial after the interposition of the United
States ; and in declining to instruct the jury, as they requested,
that if the United States, through their officers and agents
charged with the control of the same, were in the possession of
the property in controversy, using it as a national cemetery for
the burial of deceased soldiers, and as a fort and military reservation, claiming title under the certificate of sale proved in the
case, and the defendants occupied the same only as such officers
and agents, in obedience to orders of the War Department of
the United States, and making no claim of right to the title
or possession except as such officers, the verdict must be for
the defendants. Judgment of reversal should therefore also be
entered upon the writ of error sued out by them.
Being of opinion, for the reasons above set forth, that the
question of the validity of the title, under which the United
States, through their officers and agents, hold the land, cannot
be tried and determined in this action, we of course express no
opinion upon that branch of the case.

