Oct. 1882.]

STEEL V. SMELTING 00.

STEEL v. SMELTING COMPANY.
1. A patent executed in the required form and by the proper officers, for such a
portion of the public domain as is by law subject to sale or other disposal,
passes the title thereto, and the finding of the facts by the Land Department, which authorize its issue, is conclusive in a court of law. Smelting
Company v. Keymp, 104 U. S. 636, cited upon this point and approved.
2. A party who claims to be aggrieved by such issue, although he cannot have
the patent vacated or limited in its operation where it comes collaterally
in question in an action for the recovery of possession, may obtain relief in
a Court of Chancery, if he has such an equitable right as will estop the
patentee or those claiming under him from asserting the legal title to the
land. Otherwise such party must apply to the officers of the government,
who, although not clothed with power to set the patent aside, may for that
purpose bring suit in the name of the United States.
3. Mineral lands belonging to the United States, although lying within a town
site on the public domain, are subject to location and sale for mining purposes, and a title to them is acquired in the same manner as to lands of that
description which are elsewhere situate.
4. In ejectment for mineral lands by a party claiming under the patentee, the
defendant asserted that he owned the demanded premises "by superiority
of possessory title and priority of actual possession" of them as part of a
town site; that the patentee was not a citizen; and that frauds, bribery,
and subornation of perjury had been used to obtain the patent. Held, that
it was the province of the Land Department to pass upon such matters
before the patent was issued, and that they could not be set up to defeat
the action.
5. A party cannot invoke the doctrine of estoppel against the owners by reason
of improvements which, with their knowledge, he put upon the land, if he
was aware at the time that it belonged to them, and that he had no title
to it.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Thonzas A. Green for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Alexander T. Britton, Xr. Walter H. Smith, and Mr.
Jonas Hf. McGowan for the defendant in error.
MR. JusIE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action by the St. Louis Smelting and Refining
Company, a corporation created under the laws of Missouri,
against Steel and others, to recover the possession of certain
real property in the city of Leadville, Colorado. It was uom-

STEEL V. SMELTING CO.

[Sup. Or.

menced in one of the courts of the State, and on motion of the
defendants was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States. The complaint is in the usual form in actions for the
recovery of land, according to the practice prevailing in Colorado. It alleges that the plaintiff was duly incorporated, with
power to purchase and hold real estate; that it is the owner in
fee and entitled to the possession of the premises mentioned,
which are described, and that the defendants wrongfully withhold them from the plaintiff to its damage of $1,000. The
plaintiff, therefore, prays judgment for the possession of the
premises and for the damages mentioned.
The defendants filed an answer to the complaint, which appears to have been amended several times, the questions presented for our consideration having arisen upon the demurrer
to the third amended answer. -That answer denied the material allegations of the complaint and set up several special
defences, and a counter-claim for the value of the improvements put on the premises. The plaintiff demurred to these
defences and to the counter-claim.
The demurrer was sustained to the defences and overruled to the counter-claim. The
defendants elected to stand on their defences, and final judgment was accordingly ehtered on the demurrer for the plaintiff
for the possession of the premises. To review this judgment
the case was brought by the defendants to this court.
The amended answer averred that the defendants were the
owners of the land in controversy "by superiority of possessory
title and priority of actual possession" of the premises as part
of a town site on the public domain of the United States,
located and occupied since June, 1860; that the title of the
plaintiff was derived from one Thomas Starr, to whom a patent
was issued by the United States, bearing date on the 29th of
March, 1879, embracing the premises in controversy; and the
special defences set up -were that the patent was void; that
fraud, bribery, perjury, and subornation of perjury were used
to obtain it; and that Starr, the patentee, was estopped by his
conduct from asserting title to the premises.
The patent, which is subsequenly stated to be a mineral
patent, by which is meant that it was issued upon a claim for
mineral lId, is averred to be void on these grounds: that the

Oct. 1882.)

STEEL V. SMELTING CO.

land which it embraces was part of the town site of Leadville
when the claim originated, and was thus reserved from sale by
the laws of Congress; that the land included in the town site
was neither mineral nor agricultural; and that the patentee,
Starr, was not a citizen of the United States, and had not declared his intention to become one when the patent was issued.
These grounds are accompanied with a detail of the facts upon
which they are founded, but they are sufficiently stated for
the disposition of the questions arising upon them.
Land embraced within a town site on the public domain,
when unoccupied, is not exempt from location and sale for
mining purposes; its exemption is only from settlement and
sale under the pre-emption laws of the United States. Some
of the most valuable mines in the country are within the
limits of incorporated cities, which have grown up on what
was, on its first settlement, part of the public domain; and
many of such mines were located and patented after a regular
municipal government had been established. Such is the case
with some of the famous mines of Virginia City, in Nevada.
Inleed, the discovery of a rich mine in any quarter is usually
followed by a large settlement in its immediate neighborhood,
and the consequent organization of some form of local government for the protection of its members. Exploration in the
vicinity for other mines is pushed in such case by new-comers
with vigor, and is often rewarded with the discovery of valuable claims. To such claims, though within the limits of what
may be termed the site of the settlement or new town, the
miner acquires as good a right as though his discovery was in
a wilderness, removed from all settlements, and he is equally
entitled to a patent for them.
It is the policy of the country to encourage the development
of its mineral resources. The act of July 26, 1866, c. 262,
declared that all mineral deposits on lands belonging to the
United States were free and open to exploration, and the lands
in which they are found to occupation and purchase by citizens
of the United States and those who had declared their intention to become such, subject to regulations prescribed by law,
and to the rules and customs of miners in their several mining
districts, so far as the same were applicable and not inconsisVoe,. xvi.

29

STEEL V. SMELTING CO.

[Sup. ot.

tent with the laws of the United States. This declaration of
the freedom of mining lands to exploration and occupation was
repeated in the act of Congress of May 10, 1872, c. 152, and is
contained in sect. 2819 of the Revised Statutes. Both acts provided for the acquisition of title, by patent, to mineral ]ands, the first act, to such as constituted lode claims ; the second, to
such as constituted placer claims.
The acts of Congress relating to town sites recognize the
possession of mining claims within their limits, and forbid the
acquisition of any mine of gold, silver, cinnabar, or copper
within them under proceedings by whicR title to other lands
there situated is secured, thus leaving the mineral deposits
within town sites open to exploration, and the land in which
they are found to occupation and purchase, in the same manner as such deposits are elsewhere explored and possessed and
the lands containing them are acquired. Rev. Stat., sects.
2386, 2392.
Whenever, therefore, mines are found in lands belonging to
the United States, whether within or without town sites, they
may be claimed and worked, provided existing rights of others,
from prior occupation, are not interfered with. Whether
there are rights thus interfered with which should preclude
the location of the miner and the issue of a patent to him or
his successor in interest, is, when not subjected under the law
of Congress to the local tribunals, a matter properly cognizable by the Land Department, when application is made to it
for a patent; and the inquiry thus presented must necessarily
involve a consideration of the character of the land to which
title is sought, whether it be mineral, for which a patent may
issue, or agricultural, for which a patent should be withheld,
and also as to the citizenship of the applicant.
We have so often had occasion to speak of the Land Department, the object of its creation, and the powers it possesses in
the alienation by patent of portions of the public lands, that it
creates an unpleasant surprise to find that counsel, in discussing the effect to be given to the action of that department,
overlook our decisions on the subject. That department, as
we have repeatedly said, was established to supervise the various proceedings whereby a conveyance of the title from the

Oct. 1882.]

STEEL V. SMELTING CO.

United States to portions of the public domain is obtained,
and to see that the requirements of different acts of Congress
are fully complied with. Necessarily, therefore, it must consider and pass upon the qualifications of the applicant, the acts
he has performed to secure the title, the nature of the land,
and whether it is of the class which is open to sale. Its judgment upon these matters is that of a special tribunal, and is
unassailable except by direct proceedings for its annulment or
limitation. Such has been the uniform language of this court
in repeated decisions.
In Johnson v. Towsley, the effect of the action of that department was the subject of special consideration. And the court
applied the general doctrine, "that when the law has confided
to a special tribunal the authority to hear and determine certain matters arising in the course of its duties, the decision of
that tribunal, within the scope of its authority, is conclusive
upon all others," and said, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller,
"that the action of the land-office in issuing a patent for any
of the public land, subject to sale by pre-emption or otherwise,
is conclusive of the legal title, must be admitted under the
principle above stated, and in all courts, and in all forms of
judicial proceedings, where this title must control, either by
reason of the limited powers of the court, or the essential character of the proceeding, no inquiry can be permitted into the
circumstances under which it was obtained." 13 Wall. 72, 83.
In French v. Fyan, a patent had been issued to the State of
Missouri for swamp and overflowed land, under the act of Sept.
28, 1850, c. 84. In an action of ejectment by a party claiming title under a grant to a railroad company, which would
have carried the title if the land were not swamp and overflowed, parol testimony was offered to prove that it was not
land of that character, and thus to impeach the validity of the
patent. The court below held that the patent concluded the
question, and rejected the testimony. The case being brought
here, the ruling was sustained. This court, speaking through
Mr. Justice Miller, said: We are of opinion that, in this
action at law, it would be a departure from sound principle,
and contrary to well-considered judgments in this court, and
in others of high authority, to permit the validity of the patent
'-

STEEL V. SMELTING Co.

[Sup. CL.

to the State to be subjected to the test of the verdict of a jury
on such oral testimony as might be brought before it. It
would be substituting the jury, or the court sitting as a jury,
for the tribunal which Congress had provided to determine the
question, and would be making a patent of the United States
a cheap and unstable reliance as a title for lands which it purported to convey." 93 U. S. 169, 172.
In Quinby v. Conlan, decided at the last term, we said: "It
would lead to endless litigation, and be fruitful of evil, if a
supervisory power were vested in the courts over the action of
the numerous officers of the Land Department, on mere questions of fact presented for their determination. It is only
when those officers have misconstrued the law applicable to
the case, as established before the department, and thus have
denied to parties rights which, upon a correct construction,
would have been conceded to them, or where misrepresentations and fraud have been practised necessarily affecting their
judgment, that the courts can, in a proper proceeding, interfere
and refuse to give effect to their action. On this subject we
have repeatedly, and with emphasis, expressed our opinion,
and the matter should be deemed settled." 104 U. S. 420, 426.
See also Vance v. Burbank, 101 id. 514.
It is among the elementary principles of the law that in
actions of ejectment the legal title must prevail. The patent
of the United States passes that title. Whoever holds it must
recover against those who have only unrealized hopes to obtain
it, or claims which it is the exclusive province of a court of
equity to enforce. However great these may be, they constitute no defence in an action at law based upon the patent.
That instrument must first be got out of the way, or its enforcement enjoined, before others having mere equitable rights
can gain or hold possession of the lands it covers. This is so
well established, so completely embedded in the law of ejectment, that no one ought to be misled by any argument to the
contrary.
It need hardly be said that we are here speaking of a patent
issued in a case where the Land Department had jurisdiction to
act, the lands forming part of the public domain, and the law
having provided for their sale. If they never were the prop-

Oct. 1882.]

STEEL V. SMELTING CO.

erty of the United States, or if no legislation authorized their
sale, or if they had been previously disposed of or reserved
from sale, the patent would be inoperative to pass the title,
and objection to it could be taken on these grounds at any
time and in any form of action. In that respect the patent
would be like the deed of an individual, which would be inoperative if he never owned the property, or had previously conveyed it, or had dedicated it to uses which precluded its sale.
And, of course, in both cases it is always open to show that
the instrument was never executed by the parties whose signatures are attached to it, but is a simulated document. Where
ejectment is founded upon either of these instruments, - the
patent of the government or the deed of an individual, -t he
question being which of the parties has the legal title, it is
irrelevant to introduce evidence to show that one of them ought
to have had it, and might be able to get it, by a proceeding in
some other tribunal or in some other form of action.
As to the allegations that fraud, bribery, perjury, and subornation of perjury were used to obtain the patent to Starr, only
a few words need be said. The bribery and subornation of perjury are alleged to have been committed by him in inducing
parties to make false affidavits respecting the claim patented
to be laid before the Land Department; and the perjury alleged
consisted in his own affidavit as to his citizenship, the possession and working, by himself or grantors, of the claim for
which the patent was issued, and the absence of a town site,
embracing the land, and of improvements thereon. The fraud
alleged is not a specific charge by itself, but is made in connection with the affidavit of the patentee and his procurement
of the false affidavits of others. The charges amount to this:
that false and perjured testimony was used to influence the
officers of the Land Department. There is no allegation of improper conduct on the part of those officers. The answer to
this ground of defence is that it is not admissible in an action
at law. The validity of a patent of the government cannot be
assailed collaterally because false and perjured testimony may
have been used to secure it, any more than a judgment of a
court of justice can be assailed collaterally on like ground. If
a judgment has been obtained by such means, the remedy of

STEEL V. SMELTING CO.

'[Sup.

Ot.

the aggrieved party is to apply for a new trial, or take an appeal to a higher court; and if the testimony was accompanied
with acts which prevented him from presenting to the court
the merits of his case, or by which the jurisdiction of the court
was imposed upon, he may also institute some direct proceeding to reach the judgment. United States v. Flint, 4 Sawyer,
42; United States v. Throclmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Vance v.
Burbank, 101 id. 514. Until set aside or enjoined, it must, of
course, stand against a collateral attack with the efficacy attending judgments founded upon unimpeachable evidence. So
with a patent for land of the United States, which is the
result of the judgment upon the right of the patentee by that
department of the government, to which the alienation of the
public lands is confided, the remedy of the aggrieved party
must be sought by him in a court of equity, if he possess such
an equitable right to the premises as would give him the title
if the patent were out of the way. If he occupy with respect
to the land no such position as this, he can only apply to the
officers of the government to take measures in its name to
vacate the patent or limit its operation. It cannot be vacated
or limited in proceedings where it comes collaterally in question. It cannot be vacated or limited by the officers themselves; their power over the land is ended when the patent
is issued and placed on the records of the department. This
can be accomplished only by regular judicial proceedings,
taken in the name of the government for that special purpose.
- It does not follow that the officers of the government would
take such proceedings even if the charges of fraud and of the
use of false testimony in obtaining the patent were true.
They might be satisfied that the patentee was entitled to the
patent upon other testimony, or, that further proceedings
would result in a similar conclusion, and that therefore it
would be unwise to reopen the matter. In any event, whether
the officers of the government have been misled by the testimony produced before them, or not, the conclusions reached by
them are not to be submitted for consideration to every jury
before which the patent may be offered in evidence on the
trial of an action. As we said in the case of Smelting Company v. Kemp : "It is this unassailable character [of the pat-

Oct. 1882.]

STEEL v.

SMELTING

CO.

ent] which gives to it its chief, indeed its only, value, as a
means of quieting its possessor in the enjoyment of the lands it
embraces. If intruders upon them could compel him, in every
suit for possession, to establish the validity of the action of the
Land Department and the correctness of its ruling upon matters
submitted to it, the patent, instead of being a means of peace
and security, would subject his rights to constant and ruinous
litigation. He would recover one portion of his land if the jury
were satisfied that the evidence produced justified the action
of that department, and lose another portion, the title whereto
rests upon the same facts, because another jury came to a different conclusion. So his rights in different suits upon the
same patent would be determined, not by its efficacy as a conveyance of the government, but according to the fluctuating
prejudices of different jurymen, or their varying capacities to
weigh evidence." 104 U. S. 636, 641.
It remains to notice the defence of estoppel. The answer of
the defendants alleges that Starr, the patentee, was living in
Leadville from 1860 until the patent was issued to him in
1879, and was cognizant of the improvements made and of the
large sums of money expended on the premises; that he and
his grantors fraudulently remained quiet in respect to their
ownership of mining claims there, and, from August, 1870, to
the time of their application for a patent, never made known,
either to the city of Leadville or to the defendants, that he or
they claimed a right to any portion of the land; that other
parties who made similar claims, and united with him in securing the patent, also stood by and remained quiet; that the
defendants expended the sum of $5,000 in making improvements on the premises in controversy under the claim that
they constituted part of a town site on the public domain;
that there was no mining on the land, and that no notice was
given that would lead the defendants to suppose that there had
been any mineral location made by him and his associates;
that Starr published the notice of his application for a patent
only in a weekly paper of Leadville, and that the description
of the consolidated claim was so defective that only a skilled
engineer could tell where the land was situated; and that after
the defendants discovered that the notice of the patent em-

STEEL V. SMELTING 00.

[Sup. 0t.

braced lands in the city, they were assured that they should
not be disturbed in their possessions, and that only a nominal
sum would be demanded from them, not exceeding twenty-five
dollars a lot, and that, relying upon said assurance, the defendants continued making improvements.
These allegations are very far from establishing such an
equity in the defendants as to estop the patentee and those
claiming under him from asserting the legal title to the premises. These matters could not operate to estop the government
in any disposition of the land it might choose to make. Its
power of alienation could not be affected until the defendants
had performed all the acts required by law to acquire a vested
interest in the land, and it is not pretended that they took any
steps to secure such an interest. Whatever right, therefore,
the government possessed to use or dispose of the property,
freed from any claim of the defendants, it could pass to its
grantee.
The principle invoked is, that one should be estopped from
asserting a right to property, upon which he has, by his conduct, misled another, who supposed himself to be the owner, to
make expenditures. It is often applied where one owning an
estate stands by and sees another erect improvements on it in
the belief that he has the title or an interest in it, and does not
interfere to prevent the work or inform the party of his own
title. There is in such conduct a manifest intention to deceive,
or such gross negligence as to amount to constructive fraud.
The owner, therefore, in such a case will not be permitted
afterwards to assert his title and recover the property, at least
without making compensation for the improvements. But this
salutary principle cannot be invoked by one who, at the time
the improvements were made, was acquainted with the true
character of his own title, or with the fact that he had none.
Brant v. Virginia Coal and Iron Co., 93 U. S. 326; ifenshiaw
v. Bissell, 18 Wall. 255. It will not be pretended that the
defendants did not understand all about the title to the land;
they knew that it was vested in the United States. And we
must presume that the patentee gave notice of his purpose to
acquire it, - such as the law required. The mode and manner
of obtaining a patent for mining lands are minutely prescribed

Oct. 1882.]

STEEL V. SMELTING

CO.

by the acts of Congress. Among other things, the applicant
must file his application under them, in the proper land-office,
showing a compliance with the laws, together with a plat and
the field notes of his claim or claims in common, made by or
under the direction of the surveyor-general of the United
States, showing their boundaries; and he must also, and previously to the filing of the application, post a copy of the plat,
with a notice of his intended application, in a conspicuous
place on the land. It is a conclusion, from the issuing of the
patent, that this requirement was complied with, and, therefore, it cannot be said here that the patentee did not give
notice of his purpose. This notice, as justly observed by the
court below, was, of itself, a warning to all who were upon
the land and were about to erect improvements upon it, that the
patentee was applying for a patent, and thus seeking to obtain
the title. And the answer admits that the defendants did
ascertain the fact of the application, for they aver a subsequent promise of the applicant to give them a title when the
patent was acquired. Under these circumstances the alleged
estoppel, like the other matters urged to defeat the action,
must fail.
Though the various matters of fraud, perjury, and subornation of perjury, alleged as a defence, are to be taken as true,
for the purpose of this decision, they are not to be taken as
true for any other purpose. What we decide is, that, if true,
they are not available in this form of action, and that any
relief against the patent founded upon them must be sought in
another way, and by a direct proceeding.
We have thus considered the propositions of law presented
by the record, and the matters urged by co'unsel in his argument, so far as we have deemed them entitled to notice. They
disclose nothing which would justify interference with the
action of the court below. Its judgment, therefore, is
Affirmed.

