Oct. 1882.]

GEEKIE V.KIRBY CARPENTER

Co.

the present law, with its sweeping provisions, is within the
just powers of Congress. As I do not think it is, I dissent
from the opinion of the majority of the court.

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER COMPANY.
1. Under section 5 of chapter 138 of the General Laws of Wisconsin, of 1861,
providing that "no action shall be commenced by the former owner or
owners of any lands, or by any person claiming under him or them, to recover possession of land which has been sold and conveyed by deed for
non-payment of taxes, or to avoid such deed, unless such action shall be
commenced within three years next after the recording of such deed," land
is to be regarded as having been sold for non-payment of taxes, although
the sum to raise which it was sold included five cents for a United States
revenue stamp, to be put, and which was put, on the certificate issued to
the purchaser on the sale.
2. A deed on a tax sale recites that "S. A. Coleman, assignee of Oconto County,"
has deposited certificates of sale showing that five parcels, each of which
sold for so much, were sold "to the said Oconto County, and by its treasurer assigned to S. A. Coleman" for so much "in the whole," the total
being the sum of the five several sums. The statute, c. 50, sect. 22, of the
General Laws of Wisconsin, of 1859, prescribes a form of deed, and provides
that it shall be "substantially" in that or "other equivalent form," showing that the land was sold for a sum named "in the whole," Held, that
the deed is in substantial compliance with the form prescribed.
3. A sheriff having possession of property under a writ of attachment is not
bound by the judgment in a replevin suit to which he was not a party,
and in which he was not served with process, and did not appear, and which
he did not defend, although his under sheriff, as an individual, was a party
to the suit.
4. Qucere, Are the waters of the Menominee River, which is the boundary between AMichigan and Wisconsin, within the concurrent jurisdiction of both
Wisconsin and Michigan.
5. Although there was no general verdict in this case, and no special verdict
in any form known to tile common law, and no waiver in writing of a jury
trial, and no such finding of the court below upon the facts as is provided
for by sect. 649 of the Revised Statutes, this court, on a written stipulation
filed here by the parties, agreeing upon the facts, reviewed the case on a
writ of error, reversed a judgment below for the defendant, and directed
a judgment for tle plaintiff.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court,

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER C0.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Samuel D. Hastings, Jr., for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. Luther S. -Dixonand Mr. B. eT. Brown for the defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought in a court of the State of Wisconsin,
by Peter W. Geekie, sheriff of Oconto County, Wisconsin, and
William Klass, citizens of Wisconsin, against the Kirby Carpenter Company, an Illinois corporation, and was removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Wisconsin, before answer. The cause of action set forth in
the complaint was, that the plaintiff Klass was the owner of
certain saw-logs lying in the waters of the Menominee River,
in Oconto County, Wisconsin; that in April, 1876, the plaintiff Geekie, as such sheriff, levied on and attached said logs
under a writ of attachment issued against said Klass by the
Circuit Court of said county; that the defendant, by its employ6s, took, in Wisconsin, a large quantity of saw-logs from
the sheriff, and converted them to its own use, to the value of
$8,500; and that the sheriff expended $940 ii endeavoring to
safely keep the logs so wrongfully taken, and as increased expense in keeping what logs the defendant did not succeed
in taking. The claim made is for treble damages, with interest.
The answer sets up that the logs were not the property of
Klass, but were the property of the defendant; that whatever
the defendant did in regard to the logs was done under a writ
of replevin issued in a suit brought by it, as plaintiff, in the
Circuit Court for Menominee County, Michigan, to the sheriff
of that county, commanding him to take said logs and deliver
them to it; and that said sheriff took said logs into his custody
under said writ in said county of Menominee, in the State of
Michigan, and delivered them to said company.
The case was tried before a jury. The record states that
the jury "rendered a special verdict in answer to the questions
propounded by the court, said questions and the answers of the
jury thereto being as follows." There is no other or further
special verdict than the eight questions and answers which

Oct. 1882.]

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER CO.

then follow, and there is no general verdict for either party.
Afterwards the plaintiffs moved the court "upon the special
verdict" and on "the records and evidence in said cause" "for
judgment in their favor for $6,791.56, with interest at the rate
of seven per cent per annum from April 24th, 1876, and costs."
The defendant also moved for judgment in its favor on the
"special verdict," "and because in law the plaintiffs established
no cause of action." The court ordered judgment in favor of
the defendant and overruled the motion of the plaintiffs for
judgment in their favor. Judgment was rendered for the defendant, against the plaintiffs, for $186.02, costs. This writ
of error is brought by the plaintiffs to review and reverse this
judgment.
At the trial, as appears by the bill of exceptions, the plaintiffs, to show title in Klass to the logs, offered in evidence a
tax deed from the State of Wisconsin and Oconto County to
one S. A. Coleman, dated and acknowledged April 27, 1867,
and the certificate of its record indorsed on it, showing that
it was recorded in the office of the register of deeds for said
county, on the same day. The defendant objected to the reception of the deed in evidence (1) because it was not in the
form prescribed by statute; (2) because it was not executed
and acknowledged as required by law; (3) because it was void
upon its face. The court reserved its rulings on said objections, and received said deed and certificate in evidence subject
to said objections. Like objections and a like ruling were
made in respect to a certified copy of the record of said deed.
showing the date of its recording. The deed covered 79-%
acres of land, in section 13, in town 33, of range 22, and 120
acres in section 14, in town 33, of range 22, being five several
tracts, all in Oconto County. The sale was for $12.20, which
was the amount of the taxes and costs of sale. The plaintiffs
then proved that Klass purchased from Coleman the timbei
standing on the premises described in the deed; that all the
logs in controversy were cut by Klass from the premises during the winter of 1875 and 1876, and put into the river; that
the premises remained vacant and unoccupied during the whole
of the three years next after the recording of the deed; that
the logs were held by Geekie, as sheriff, under a regular and

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER CO.

[Sup. t

valid attachment and levy; and that the company claimed to
own the logs and sought to take them from the custody of
Geekie. After the plaintiffs had rested, the defendant offered
to show, by certified copies of the records from Oconto County,
that the county treasurer of that county, in making the sale of
the lands on which the said tax deed to Coleman was based,
added to the amount of all legal taxes and charges for which
each of said tracts was liable to be sold the sum of five cents to
pay for a United States revenue stamp to be placed on the
certificate issued to the purchaser on such sale; that said illegal excess of five cents was included in the amount for which
each one of said tracts was sold; and that a five-cent United
States internal revenue stamp was affixed to each one of said
certificates of sale. The plaintiffs objected to the reception of
said evidence, as incompetent and immaterial, because said tax
deed was regular and valid on its face, and had been recorded
more than three years before the commencement of the action
and the cutting of the timber. The court reserved its ruling
on said objection until the close of the case, and received said
testimony subject to said objection. It was then admitted by
the plaintiffs that the facts relative to said sale were as the
defendant offered to show them to be, but not waiving their
objection to said evidence, or consenting to its being received.
The defendant then gave evidence showing that it owned in
fee-simple, at the time the tax deed to Coleman was executed
and recorded, the premises from which said timber was cut.
After the close of the evidence the questions to be answered
by the jury were submitted to them by the court, and they
were answered by the jury. The bill of exceptions states as
follows: "Both said plaintiffs and said defendant filed motions
for judgment on the pleadings, records, and evidence in said
cause, and, upon the argument of said counter-motions and said
objections to testimony reserved, the court overruled said defendant's objections to the admissibility of said tax deed in
evidence, and said plaintiffs' objection to said defendant's testimony showing the illegal excess of five cents in the amount
for which each of said tracts of land was sold by said county
treasurer, and overruled said plaintiffs' motion for judgment,
and ordered judgment for said defendant; to each of which

Oct. 1882.]

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER Co.

said rulings against said plaintiffs said plaintiffs then and there
duly excepted."
To obviate any objection that this court could not review
the judgment in this case because there was no general verdict
of the jury, and no special verdict in any form known to the
common law, and no waiver in writing of a jury trial, and no
such finding by the court below upon the facts as is provided
for by sect. 649 of the Revised Statutes, the parties have filed
in this court a written stipulation, agreeing "that the facts
appearing from the special verdict and stated by the bill of
exceptions to have been proved, shall be taken and considered
as the facts in this case for all purposes, and as fully as if they
had been specifically found by the Circuit Court;" and "that
the, Circuit Court submitted certain questions to the jury by
agreement of the parties, and that the other facts were to be
found and stated as shown by the bill of exceptions, and that
upon the whole case, as thus shown, judgment was to be pronounced by the court below, as they should determine the
law."
The ground upon which the Circuit Court overruled the
objection of the plaintiffs to the testimony on the part of the
defendant to show the illegal excess of five cents in the amount
for which each of the tracts of land was sold was, that, in being
sold to raise the five cents, the land was sold for that which
was not a tax; that the amount assessed against the land for
a tax was less than the amount for which it was sold; that,
although a tax was included in that amount, there was also
included in it that for which the land could not be sold; and
that this fact deprived the officer of the power to sell and made
the tax deed void.
The statute of Wisconsin applicable to this subject is found
in chapter 138 of the General Laws of 1861, sects. 5 and 6: " SECT. 5. No action shall be commenced by the former owner
or owners of any lands, or by any person claiming under him or
them, to recover possession of land which has been sold and conveyed by deed for non-payment of taxes, or to avoid such deed,
unless such action shall be commenced within three years next after
the recording of such deed.
"SEcT. 6. The limitation for bringing actions prescribed in the

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER Co.

[Sup. Ct.

last preceding section shall not apply . . . where the taxes for the
non-payment of which the land was sold and the tax-deed executed were paid prior to the sale, or where the land was redeemed
from the operations of such sale, as provided by law, nor where the
land was not liable to taxation."
The sole question presented under these provisions is, whether
the land in this case can be said not to have been sold for nonpayment of taxes, because in the $12.20 for which it was sold
was included twenty-five cents for the five stamps, in addition
to $11.95 for taxes proper. It is admitted that the land could
not properly be sold to raise the five cents as a tax, and that,
if the question had been raised on behalf of the original owner
of the land in a suit commenced within three years next after
the recording of the deed on the sale, he could have had relief
against the sale; but it is contended for the plaintiffs in error
that the lapse of the three years prevented the questioning of
the validity of the deed because of the irregularity complained
of. We are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in its construction of the statute. The exceptions in sect. 6 do not
apply to this case, and the land was sold for non-payment of
taxes, although an improper item was included in the amount
for which the sale was had. It matters not whether such item
was five cents for a revenue stamp, or an illegal excess for fees,
or any other illegal excess. The statute applies whenever
there has been an actual attempt, however defective in detail,
to carry out a proper exercise of the taxing power. As against
the grantee in the tax deed the statute puts at rest all objections raised, after the time specified, against the validity of the
tax proceeding, from and including the assessment of the land
to and including the execution of the deed. If the deed is
valid on its face, and purports to convey the land on a sale for
the non-payment of taxes, it is, during the three years, prinza
facie evidence of the regularity of the tax proceeding, and,
after the statute has run in favor of the grantee, the deed
becomes conclusive to the same extent. The general authority
of the taxing officers and the liability of the land to taxation
having existed, there was no want of authority to put the taxing power in motion. That being so, the lapse of time establishes conclusively the validity of the tax and of the sale, as

Oct. 1882.]

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER CO.

against the irregularity in question. There having been jurisdiction, all error was conclusively barred by the statute. This
construction is that held by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
in regard to this statute, in Oconto County v. Jerrard,46 Wis.
317, and ZLMlledge v. Coleman, 47 id. 184" It is said, and correctly, in the latter case, that that is the view which has been
uniformly taken of that statute by that court, and that to adopt
a contrary view would disturb numerous titles. Such construction was, therefore, always a rule of property, in respect to
land, in Wisconsin, and is one which this court will follow.
Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427. In Milledge v. Coleman,
the illegality alleged was the including of five cents for a
United States revenue stamp in the amount for which the
land was sold. That case was decided some four months after
the decision in the present case was made by the court below.
The deed in question was not open to the other objections
taken to it at the trial. One of those objections was that the
deed was not substantially in the form prescribed by statute,
or any equivalent form, and was void upon its face. The form
is given in c. 50, sect. 22, of the General Laws of Wisconsin,
of 1859; and the statute says that the deed "shall be substantially in the following or other equivalent form." There is no
doubt that the form must be substantially pursued, or the deed
will be invalid. Part of the form is a recital that the purchaser or his assignee has deposited a certificate, whereby it
appears that certain lands, describing them, were, for the nonpayment of taxes, sold by the officer named, at public auction,
at a place and time named, to the said purchaser, for a sum
named, "in the whole, which sum was the amount of taxes
assessed and due and unpaid" on said tracts of land, &c. The
deed in the present case recites that " S. A. Coleman, assignee
of Oconto County," has deposited five certificates, whereby it
appears that five certain parcels of land, describing them, three
containing 40 acres each, each sold for $2.43, one containing
39- acres, sold for $2.43, and one containing 40 acres, sold
for $2.48, were, for the non-payment of taxes, sold by the officer named, at public auction, at a place and time named, "to
the said Oconto County, and by its treasurer assigned to S. A.
Coleman, for the sum of twelve dollars and twenty cents, in
VOL. XVI.

25

GEEKIE v. KIRBY CARPENTER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

the whole, which sum was the amount of taxes assessed and due
and unpaid" on said tracts of land, &c. The objection made
is, that the recital is not that the lands were sold for so much
in the whole, but that they were sold "to the said Oconto
County, and by its treasurer assigned to S. A. Coleman" for
so much in the whole; that the words, "the sum of," in the
recital, relate to the word "assigned"; that the meaning is,
that the lands were assigned to Coleman for the $12.20 in the
whole, or were sold and assigned for that sum in the whole,
and not that they were sold for that sum in the whole. The'
Circuit Court held that it clearly enough appeared, taking
the whole deed together, for what sum in dollars and cents the
land was sold in the whole, as required by the statute; and
that; taking the statement as to the $12.20 with the preceding
statement as to the sum for which each parcel of land sold, the
inference was irresistible that the $12.20 was the amount for
which the land was sold in the whole, for the non-payment of
taxes. We think this view was correct. A like construction
was given to a recital in the same language, by the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, in Jilledge v. Coleman, ubi supra. It
is manifest that the words, "and by its treasurer assigned to
S. A. Coleman," are to be read as if they were in a parenthesis.
In connection with the prior words, "Whereas S. A. Coleman,
assignee of Oconto County, has deposited," &c., they are put
in to indicate that Oconto County was the purchaser, and Coleman was its assignee, of the purchase, by assignment from the
treasurer of the county. Everything required by the statute
as to form is found in the deed, with added facts as to the
assignment.
The objection as to the form of the acknowledgment of the
deed does not seem to be insisted on by the defendant in error.
We think the Circuit Court was correct in its ruling that the
acknowledgment was in proper form. The same form was
upheld as proper by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in Mi1ledge v. Coleman, ubi supra.
The defendant offered in evidence at the trial a copy of a
judgment in an action in the Circuit Court for the county of
Menominee, Michigan, in which the Kirby Carpenter Company "was plaintiff and the Menominee River Manufacturing

I, I

Oct. 1882.]

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER CO.

Company, Charles J. Ellis and Millard F. Powers, were defendants, in which action a writ of replevin was issued to the
sheriff of said county, commanding him to forthwith take into
his custody the goods and chattels therein mentioned, which
were the logs in controversy, and deliver them to said Kirby
Carpenter Company, which action was commenced on the
thirty-first day of May, 1876, and process therein served on
said parties therein named as defendants on said day, and in
which action judgment was entered as by default against the
defendants therein named, on the twenty-fourth day of September, 1878, adjudging the title to said logs to be in said Kirby
Carpenter Company." The plaintiffs objected to the admission of said record in evidence, as incompetent and immaterial,
"because neither of the plaintiffs in this action was a party
to said action." The court reserved its ruling upon said ohjection, and received said testimony subject to said objection.
The record does not show that the objection was afterwards
either overruled or sustained. As the court held that Coleman
acquired no title under the tax deed, it was unnecessary for it
to make any ruling as to the effect of the judgment in the replevin suit. But, under the stipulation so made in this court,
the question is here to be passed upon.
The bill of exceptions states that the defendant showed that
the Millard F. Powers named as one of the defendants in said
replevin suit was the under sheriff of Oconto County; that
process in said suit was served on said Powers on an island in
the Menominee River, near its mouth, on the Michigan side of
the main channel of said river, near the head of which island
are situated what are called the dividing piers; and that at the
time of the service of said process upon said Powers he was on
said island assisting the plaintiff Geekie in his endeavors to retain said logs under said writ of attachment under which they
were levied on by said Powers; that all of said logs that were
taken from said plaintiffs, after the issuing of said writ of replevin, were taken by said sheriff and his posse, acting under
the authority of said writ; that not to exceed twenty of said
logs came to the possession of said defendant before the issuing
of said writ of replevin; and that the point in said Menominee
River at which said dividing piers are located, and at which

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER CO.

[Sup. Ct

said defendant took from said Geede said logs, was on the
Michigan side of the main channel of said river.
The bill of exceptions states that the plaintiffs showed that
Geekie, by and through Powers, his under sheriff, levied on
said logs on April 24, 1876, in the Menominee River about one
mile above said piers; that the piers were managed and controlled by the Menominee River Manufacturing Company, a
corporation; that Powers, after making the levy, remained in
charge of the logs for some days, and then turned the writ over
to Geekie, the sheriff, on or about May 9, 1876, it not being
shown on the trial that the defendant had notice of that fact;
that the defendant claimed to own said logs and sought to take
them from the custody of said sheriff, as they passed through
said dividing piers; that from the time they commenced running through said piers until they had all passed through, said
Geekie, and others acting for and under him, and parties acting
for and under the direction of the defendant, were struggling
with each other for the possession of the logs; that the Menominee River runs between the States of Michigan and Wisconsin; that when said logs were levied upon by said sheriff
they were in a bend in said river and on the Wisconsin side of
the channel; and that the expense of executing said writ of
attachment by said sheriff, if he had not been interfered with
by said defendant, would have been not more than $240.
The questions and answers forming the so-called special verdict were as follows: "1st. Did the defendant take, or cause
to be taken, from the possession of the plaintiffs, and convert
to its own use, the logs in question, or any part thereof? Answer. Yes. 2d. If you answer the preceding question in the
affirmative, then when were said logs so taken from the possession of the plaintiffs? Answer. On the twenty-fourth day of
April, 1876. 3d. What quantity of logs, if any, were so taken
and converted to its own use by the defendant? Answer.
1,040,238 feet. 4th. What was the value of the logs so taken
and appropriated by the defendant? Answer. Six dollars per

tiousand feet. . . . 6th. What was the amount of expenses
necessarily incurred and paid by the plaintiff Geekie in endeavoring to retain possession of said logs? Answer. $538.14.
7th. What number of days was the plaintiff Geekie necessa-

Oct. 1882.]

GEECIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER CO.

rily engaged in endeavoring to keep possession of said logs, and
what was the value of his services per day? Answer. Fortynine days, at three dollars per day, 147.00. 8th. What
number of days was M. F. Powers necessarily engaged in attempting to keep possession of said logs, and what was the
value of his services per day? Answer. Fifteen days, at
three dollars per day, 845.00."
It is contended for the defendant in error that Geekie was
concluded by the judgment in the replevin suit, and that, although he was not a party to it, the judgment against Powers,
his under sheriff, bound him. But it clearly appears from the
foregoing facts that Powers did not have possession of the logs
when the replevin suit was commenced, and that Geekie did.
Powers was sued as an individual. Geekie was not served
with process in the suit, nor did he appear in it or defend it;
and, so far as appears, no defence was made to it.
It is further contended for the defendant in error that the
conversion by the defendant took place in Michigan, and not
in Wisconsin, as alleged in the complaint, because it is shown
that the place where the defendant took the logs from Geekie
was on the Michigan side of the main channel of the river.
This is not equivalent to a finding that the taking was wholly
or exclusively in Michigan, so as to make, as against Geekie, a
taking at a place where the lien of the attachment did not exist. It is contended that the Menominee River being, as found,
the boundary between Michigan and Wisconsin at the locus in
quo, Wisconsin has, by sect. 3 of the act of Congress of Aug.
6, 1846, c. 89, concurrent jurisdiction with Michigan over the
waters of the Menominee River. But it is not necessary to
determine this question.
Klass having the general property in the logs, and Geekie a
special property in them, and the logs having been taken by
the defendant from the possession of Geekie, who held them
as sheriff, under the attachment against Klass, it was proper
for both to join in the suit. The damages found to have been
sustained by each may be added together and awarded to them
as plaintiffs. The damages to Klass are the value of the logs,
1,040,238 feet at ,$6 per thousand feet, being $6,241.42. The
damages to Geekie are the $538.14 expenses, less the $240, be-

GEEKIE V. KIRBY CARPENTER

CO.

[Sup. 0t.

ing $298.14, extra expenses, and the $147 and the $45. The
sum of the whole to Klass and Geekie is $6,731.56. The date
of the conversion, found by the jury, was April 24, 1876.
There appears to be some confusion in the record. It is stated
that the replevin suit was commenced May 31, 1876 ; that all
of the logs which were taken from the plaintiffs after the issuing of the writ of replevin were taken by the sheriff under that
writ; and that not to exceed twenty of such logs came to the
possession of the defendant before the issuing of said writ.
Yet the jury found that the defendant took all the logs or
caused them to be taken from the possession of the plaintiffs,
and converted them to its own use, on the 24th of April,
1876. But the attachment levy was made on the 24th of
April by Powers, and the record states that he remained in
charge of the logs for some days, and turned the writ over to
Geekie on May 9. The bill of exceptions states, however,
that there was other evidence tending to show the time of the
conversion of the logs by the defendant, and the manner in
which the defendant and the sheriff of Menominee County
took possession of them. On the whole, we think, that as to
the damages to Klass interest should be given from the 24th
of April, 1876, the date of conversion found by the jury, and
as to tho~e to Geekie, interest should be given from the bringing of this suit, Nov. 21, 1876.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed with
costs, and the case remanded to that court, with directions to'
it to enter a judgment for the plaintiffs for $6,731.56, with
lawful interest on $6,241.42 thereof from April 24, 1876, and
with lawful interest on $490.14 thereof from Nov. 21, 1876,
with costs; and it is
So ordered.

