154

THE "NEVADA."

[Sup. Ct.

authorizes the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from time to
time to supply and deliver to any manufacturer of frictionmatches a suitable quantity of adhesive or other stamps, without prepayment therefor, on a credit not exceeding sixty days.
What we have said covers all the errors assigned.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

THE "NEVADA."
1. An ocean steamer starting from a crowded slip, the motion of her propeller
caused a canal-boat to break her fastenings and swing around against the
propeller, whereby she was sunk. The steamer had no lookout at her stern,
by whom the peril of the canal-boat might have been seen in time to stop
the propeller and prevent the collision. Held, that the steamer was in
fault.
2. Towage should be employed, when necessary to enable a large steamer to
leave a crowded slip or harbor without damaging other vessels.
3. Steamers and locomotives should be so managed and operated as to do the
least possible injury consistent with their substantial usefulness.
4. Those in charge of the canal-boat, in this case, having done allthat reasonable
prudence required of them, by properly fastening their boat, were held free
from blame.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Stephen P. Nash for the appellant.
Mr.Eugene H. Lewis and 1W. Robert
appellee.

. Benedict for the

Mn. JUsTIcE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arises upon a libel filed in the District Court for
the Southern District of New York by S. J. Quick, master and
owner of the canal-boat "Kate Green," for himself and for
F. A. McKnight, against the steamship "Nevada," in a cause
of collision. The libel alleges that McKnight was invested by
subrogation, or otherwise, with the interest of the Western Insurance Company of Buffalo, who were insurers of 8,100 bushels of corn, the cargo of the "Kate Green" at the time of the
collision; that on-the 27th of September, 1871, whilst the

Oct. 1882.]

THE "NEVADA."

boat was lying securely fastened in a slip in New York City,
between piers No. 46 and No. 47 on the North River, the "Nevada," which had been moored in the same slip on the north
side of pier No. 46, proceeded on her way to sea, and carelessly and negligently ran into and struck the "Kate Green"
with her propeller, causing her to sink, whereby she was
greatly injured and her cargo destroyed, resulting in a total
damage of $12,000.
The Liverpool and Great Western Steam Company appeared
as claimants of the "Nevada," and answered the libel, setting
up that the collision was occasioned solely by the carelessness
and negligence of the master and crew of the "Kate Green."
McKnight filed a petition for leave to intervene, setting
forth his interest in the cargo, to wit, that it had been insured
by the Western Insurance Company, which became liable for
and paid the full value thereof to the owners, and afterwards
became bankrupt, and at the sale of its assets, he, McKnight,
became the purchaser of its claims arising from the loss and
destruction of said cargo. He was allowed to intervene accordingly.
Proofs being taken, a decree was made by the District Court
that the libellants recoicer their damages and costs against the
"Nevada," and it was referred to a commissioner to ascertain
the amount of damage.
The commissioner reported that the damage done to the
"Kate Green," her furniture, loss of freight, and interest,
amounted to $4,289.72; and that the damage to the cargo,
with interest, was $8,109.64. A decree was made for these
sums, with costs.
Upon appeal to the Circuit Court this decree was affirmed,
and a new decree was entered (including interest to the date
of the decree) in favor of Quick for the sum of $4,577.65, besides costs; and infavor of McKnight for the sum of $8,653.98,
besides his costs.
The owners of the "Nevada" have appealed from this decree.
So far as relates to Quick, the owner of the "Kate Green,"
under the recent ruling of this court in Ex parte Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Co., ante, p. 5, the appeal must be dismissed;
as to McKnight, it is necessary to examine the case at large.

THE " NEVADA."

[Sup. Ot.

The Circuit Court found the facts in detail, of which it is
sufficient to state, that about 3 o'clock P.M., Sept. 27, 1871, the
propeller steamship "Nevada," belonging to one of the regular
lines between New York and Liverpool, was lying alongside of
pier No. 46 in the slip between that pier and pier No. 47 on
the North River, New York, about to start on her voyage
to Liverpool. She had been advertised to start at that hour,
had rung her bells and blown her whistle several times, and
her signals for starting were flying at mast-head.
At that
instant, before her screw was put in motion, a steam-tug
entered the slip with the canal-boat "Kate Green" in tow,
and placed her alongside of another canal-boat, the "0. H.
Hart," lying fastened to a grain elevator, which was in turn
fastened to the steamship "Scotia," lying alongside pier No. 47,
on the north side of the slip. The master and steersman of the
"Kate Green," which lay about sixty feet from the "Nevada,"
instantly made her fast to the "C. H. Hart," and at that moment
the propeller of the "Nevada" began to revolve, and produced
a suction and commotion of the water which caused the "C. H.
Hart" to break her fastenings, and the "Kate Green" to swing
around under the stern of the "Nevada," where she was struck
by the propeller and sunk, and much injured, and her cargo was
lost. She was not seen from the "Nevada" when she came in,
and no special notice was given to her that the "Nevada" was
about to leave, and those in charge of her had no actual knowledge of the fact until the propeller of the "Nevada." began to
move. As soon as she began to swing around her master called
loudly to the "Nevada" to stop her propeller, but he was not
heard, or, if heard, not heeded.
The court further found as follows:
"10. No one on board of the ' Nevada' knew of the parting
of the ' Hart's' lines, or of the swinging of the ' Green,' or
of the accident, until after they arrived in Liverpool. If a
man had looked from her deck over her side into the slip, he
could not have failed to see what was going on all the time,
from the first movement of the propeller, and before, until she
got out.
"11. There was an abundance of time after the breaking of
the fastenings of the ' Hart,' and after the ' Green' began to

Oct. 1882.]

THE " NEVADA."

swing, and after the hail of her master, to have stopped the propeller, before the collision.
"112. The report of the commissioner as to the damages is
warranted by the evidence, and the libellant, McKnight, was
the owner of the claim for damages when the libel was filed."
The conclusions of law found by the Circuit Court were as
follows: "11. The ' Nevada' was in fault for not keeping a sufficient
lookout aft and on the side next the slip, and in not seeing the
'Kate Green' when she came in, or as she swung over, and in
not stopping the propeller in time to avoid the collision.
"12. The ' Kate Green,' under the peculiar circumstances in
which she was placed, was not in fault.
" 3. The libellants are entitled to recover the damages reported by the commissioner."
It seems hardly necessary tQ do more than to state the case
as the facts are found by the court in order to decide it. The
"Kate Green" came into the slip, it is true, at the time the
"Nevada" was about to leave; and those in charge of her
ought to have known this fact from the ringing of the "1Nevada's" bells and her visible signals for starting. But supposing
they did know it, what more could they do than they did do?
They immediately made fast to the "C. H. Hart," which was
also made fast to the ship lying at the North Pier. It was
reasonable for them to suppose that the fastening of the "C. H.
Hart" was secure. They could not know that it would break.
It was that break which set them adrift, subject to the suction
caused by the motion of the "1Nevada's" propeller. Their own
fastenings were sufficient. We do not see how the court could
find otherwise than that they were free from fault or negligence.
Perhaps they might have done something else which would
have been better. The event is always a great teacher. They
might have stayed out in the river and not entered the slip;
or, having entered, they might have gone back to the bulkhead, and stayed there till the "' Nevada" left. But these possibilities are not the criteria by which they are to be judged.
The question is, Did they do all that reasonable prudence
required them to do under the circumstances? And this question, we think, must be answered in the affirmative.

THE "NEVADA."

[Sup. Ct.

Then, how is it with the "Nevada?"
Did those on board of
her do all that was reasonably required of them ? It is significantly asked by her counsel, whether a steamship is to be precluded from the use of her own means of locomotion? Must
she be subjected to the inconvenience and expense of employing a tug to tow her out into open water? That does
not necessarily follow. If, indeed, the action of her propellers
is such as to cause unavoidable injury to other craft in a
crowded harbor, or in a confined space like that of a slip or
dock used by vessels of every kind, she might be justly required
to find other means of moving in a position involving so much
peril. This is no more than is required in analogous cases.
Railroad companies are compelled to slacken the speed of their
trains in passing through cities, and are often either prohibited
from using ordinary locomotive engines in the more public
streets, or required to guard their tracks by means of gates,
bars, or fences, in order to prevent accidents and collisions.
Incidental inconveniences, it is true, attach to the use of many
of the great improvements of the age; inconveniences which
must be submitted to in order that the public may have the
benefit of those improvements. Almost every new machine
inflicts loss of employment upon some portion of the laboring
class, which are thus obliged to seek other fields of industry.
Steamboats have taken the place of sailing-vessels; railroads
have interfered with steamboats, and have rendered useless
thousands of stage-coaches, and the appliances connected with
them. The vast power and speed of the modern locomotive
engine, carrying its thousand passengers, or its hundreds of
tons of merchandise, require the private carriage and the country team to await its passage and give it the right of way.
The large steamer which navigates our rivers creates an agitation of the waters which cannot be prevented without staying
its speed and crippling its usefulness, and which requires from
smaller vessels in its neighborhood increased attention and care
to avoid being foundered or injured. Horse railroads in cities
incumber the streets with their iron tracks, and render the
passage of private vehicles more difficult and dangerous. But
whilst these incidental and unavoidable inconveniences must
be submitted to in order that the greater benefit derived from

Oct. 1882.]

THE " NEVADA."

the new improvements may be enjoyed, there still remains the
duty of so managing and operating them as to do the least possible injury consistent with the fair attainment of their substantial benefits. The ocean steamer is one of the great
inventions of the century, and one of the advanced instrumentalities of modern civilization ; but whilst it may freely exercise
its powerful propeller and sport its leviathan proportions on the
ocean or in deep and open waters, it is justly required to observe extraordinary care and watchfulness when surrounded by
feebler craft in a crowded harbor. Under some circumstances,
and within a limited space, it may even be required to dispense
with the use of its ordinary means of locomotion, and resort to
the employment of towage or other safe and quiet means of
changing its position and effecting its necessary movements.
Such a modification of the use of its power, when absolutely
required for the safety of other vessels rightfully located in its
vicinity, would produce no material diminution of its efficiency
in the accomplishment of its principal design.
However, we do not mean to say that, in the application of
these principles to the present case, it was the duty of the
"Nevada" to remit the use of her propeller in leaving her
place in the slip where she lay. The court does not find her in
fault for using it, but for not having a lookout at her stern,
and on the side next to the slip, who could have seen the breaking away of the "Hart" and the "Kate Green" from their
fastenings, and, by giving timely alarm, could have averted the
disaster by a momentary stopping of the "Nevada's" engine.
In such a place, and in the midst of such a crowd of vessels as
then filled the slip, since she did put her propeller in motion,
she was bound to use the utmost caution and circumspection in
order to avoid. doing injury. The least that could be expected of her was a constant lookout at every part. But the
court finds that "no one on board of the ' Nevada' knew of
the parting of the ' Hart's' lines, or of the swinging of the
'Green,' or of the accident, until after they arrived at Liverpool. If a man had looked from her deck over her side into
the slip, he could not have failed to see what was going on all
the time, from the first movement of the propeller, and before,
until she got out." And the court further finds that "there

UNITED STATES v. ABATOIR PLACE.

[Sup. Ct.

was abundant time after the breaking of the fastenings of the
' Hart,' and after the ' Green' began to swing, and after the
hail of her master, to have stopped the propeller before the collision."
This, as it seems to us, settles the case, and amply justifies
the conclusion of law made by the court below, that "the
' Nevada' was in fault for not keeping a sufficient lookout aft
and on the side next the slip, and in not seeing the ' Kate
Green' when she came in, or as she swung over, and in not
stopping the propeller in time to avoid the collision." In view
of the principles to which we have adverted, and which ought
to control this case, no other conclusion could have been
reached.
We see no error in the decree of the Circuit Court, and it is
therefore, with interest and costs,
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ABATOIR PLACE.
Where an information against a distillery for an alleged violation of the revenue laws was filed, and the District Court, after rendering judgment in favor
of the claimant, denied the motion of the United States that a certificate of
reasonable cause of seizure be entered of record,-Held,that the action on
the motion cannot be reviewed here or in the Circuit Court.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the.
Southern District of New York.
This was an information filed in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York against a
distillery, claiming that it was forfeited to the United States
for violation of the revenue laws.
Frederick Frerichs appeared as the claimant, and denied
the forfeiture. Upon the trial the District Court, being of
opinion that there was no evidence of any violation of the
revenue laws, for which the seizure had been made, directed a
verdict for him, and judgment was rendered thereon in his
favor.
Thereupon the United States moved the court to enter of

