286

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

MILTF,NBERGEII V. LOGANSPORT RAI

[Sup. Ct.

WAY COliANY.

1. In August, 1870, a first mortgage on a railroad was made. In January, 1873,
a second mortgage on the same railroad was made. Both mortgages covered after-acquired property. A default on the first mortgage occurred in
November, 1873, and on the second mortgage in January, 1874. In August,
1874, the second mortgagee filed a bill to foreclose the second mortgage,
making the first mortgagee a party, acknowledging the priority of the first
mortgage, not praying any relief against the first mortgagee, and praying
for a receiver, and for the payment of his net revenue to those entitled to
it. On the same day, an order was made appointing one Schuyler receiver,
and directing that a copy of the order be served on the first mortgagee, a
corporation, requiring it to appear "on or before" the first Monday of November then next, and authorizing the receiver to pay the arrears due for
operating expenses for a period in the past not exceeding ninety days. A
copy of the order was served on the first mortgagee three days afterwards,
and proof of that service was filed two days after the service. In October
following, the receiver, on his petitions filed, was authorized, by order, to
purchase certain rolling-stock, and to pay indebtedness, not exceeding
$10,000, to other connecting lines, for materials and repairs, and for ticket
and freight balances, a part of which was incurred more than ninety days
before the order appointing the receiver was made, and to expend a sum
named in building six miles of road and a bridge, which were part of the
main line of the road, and the expenditures were charged as a first lien on
the earnings of the road. The first mortgagee appeared and answered on
the first Monday of November, and not before. The answer objected to the
creation of fresh indebtedness. Nothing more was done in the suit for
eleven months. Then the receiver reported that be had built the six miles
and the bridge, and purchased rolling-stock, and incurred debts therefor.
He also filed a petition showing that his trust owed $232,000, and asking
leave to borrow that amount and $90,000 to put the road in order, on receivers' certificates, to be made a first lien. The petition set forth a meeting of both classes of bondholders, at which, on the report of a committee,
the receiver was directed, by a resolution passed, to obtain authority to
borrow $322,000 on receivers' certificates. An order was made authorizing
him to borrow $201,000 on receivers' certificates, payable out of income,
and to be provided for in the final order of the court in the suit, if not paid
out of income. Soon after four holders of first-mortgage bonds were made
defendants, with leave to answer and to file a cross-bill. They answered
and filed a cross-bill, in November, 1875, to foreclose the first mortgage.
The cross-bill claimed that the six miles of road, and the bridge and the
rolling-stock, and the other property acquired by the receiver, were subject
to the lien of the first mortgage, and that the mortgagor had been insolvent
from October, 1873, and affirmed the foregoing statement as to the meeting
of the bondholders and their resolution, and stated that the plaintiffs in the
cross-bill had desired and sought for more than a year to have the first
mortgage foreclosed; that the $201,000 ought not to be borrowed and made
a first lien on the road; and that the receiver ought to be removed, and

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

CO.

287

another receiver appointed under the cross-bill. In December, 1875, a reference was made to take evidence on the subject of the appointment of a new
receiver. fore than four months after that the first mortgagee answered
the cross-bill, and, the two suits being ready for hearing, they were consolidated and heard. One decree was made in them, in May, 1876, declaring
that both mortgages covered all the property held by the mortgagor when
the original suit was brought and all subsequent additions thereto, and providing for a foreclosure of the right of the second mortgagee to redeem, and
for the presentation to a master of claims against the property and the receiver. In July, 1876, one Claybrook was appointed additional receiver in
the original suit. He acted, after Aug. 11, 1876, as sole receiver until Aug.
25, 1876, after which lie and Schuyler were joint receivers, until December,
1876, when Schuyler resigned. Claybrook, on Aug. 12, 1876, took possession of the entire property which Schuyler had, including a railway twentythree miles long, used under a lease from another company. The master
reported as to claims against the property and the receiver, from time to
time. The plaintiffs in the cross-bill interposed objections to making any
of the claims prior in lien to the lien of the first mortgage. In January,
1879, the court, by order, allowed certain claims, many of them not over
$5,000, specifying the names of the claimants and the amounts allowed,
and giving the claims allowed preference in payment out of the income and
proceeds of sale, over the claims of the mortgagees. In this order the
plaintiffs in the cross-bill prayed an appeal to this court. In July, 1879, the
court made a decree for the sale of the road as an entirety, and for the payment out of the proceeds of sale of the claims allowed, before paying any
principal or interest on the mortgage debts. In this decree the plaintiffs in
the cross-suit prayed an appeal from it to this court. On a hearing of the
appeal, He1d: 1. The appeals were appeals in open court, not requiring citations, and the order and the decree appealed from sufficiently designated all
the appellees by name. 2. The first mortgagee was a proper party to the
original bill of foreclosure, because a receiver was prayed for; and, the
order appointing the receiver having been served on the first mortgagee
three days after it was made, such mortgagee was bound to protect promptly
the interests of the first-mortgage bondholders. 3. The original bill did not
seek to create a receivership for the sole benefit of the second-mortgage
bondholders. 4. The property in court under the original bill was the entire mortgaged property, and not merely the equity of redemption of the
mortgagor, as against the second mortgagee. 5. The exclusive right of a
second mortgagee to the income of a receivership created under a bill filed
by him is limited to a case where the first mortgagee is not a party to the
suit. 6. The first mortgagee having been entitled, by the terms of the
first mortgage, to take possession of the mortgaged property and operate
the road, and the cross-bill not having been filed for more than a year after
the receiver was appointed and the first mortgagee had appeared and answered in the original suit, and it having been, in judgment of law or in
fact, fully known, all the time to the first-mortgage bondholders, what was
doing by the receiver in creating the claims, it was inequitable for the
appellants to le by and see the receiver and the court dealing with the
property in the manner complained of, and merely protest generally and
disclaim all interest under the receivership, and yet assert in the cross-bill
that the property acquired by the receiver was subject to the lien of the

288

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

first mortgage, and claim the proceeds of that property without paying the
debts incurred for acquiring it.
2. A court has the power to create claims through a receiver, in a suit for the
foreclosure of a railroad mortgage, which shall take precedence of the lien
of the mortgage. It may therefore provide that the receiver shall pay the
arrears due for operating expenses for a period in the past not exceeding
ninety days, and pay indebtedness, not exceeding $10,000, to other connecting lines, for materials and repairs, and for ticket and freight balances, a
part of which had been incurred more than ninety days before the order
appointing him was made, and purchase rolling-stock, and build six miles
of road and a bridge, part of the main line of the road, and make such
expenditures a lien prior to the lien of the mortgages.
8. The mortgagor held a leased road, under a written lease, providing for rent
and for payment for depreciation, and for the payment of a monthly rent
by the lessor to the lessee for the use of a part of the road. The successive receivers took possession of the leased road and operated it as a continuation of the mortgaged road. Part of the rent which accrued before
Claybrook became receiver was unpaid. Claybrook, after he became receiver, paid the rent as it accrued. The successive receivers collected the
rent monthly from the lessor for the use of a part of the road. The court
allowed to the lessor, as a claim preferred to the first mortgage, a sum
based on the actual value of the use of the road by the receivers, and for
depreciation, and allowed, with a like preference, claims for supplies and
materials furnished for the road, while so operated. Hedd, that the allowances were proper, and that the final decree was not erroneous in not requiring the accounts of the receiver to be settled before paying out of
the proceeds of sale the debts allowed against him, nor in ordering the sale
of the property as an entirety, without separating that acquired by the
receiver.
4. The question of the jurisdiction of this court, in respect of the claims not
over $5,000, was not considered.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Oharles H. Osborn for the appellants.
Mr. Benjamin HYarrison and Mr. John G. Williams, contra.
MR.

JUSTICE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the

court.

On the 1st of August, 1870, the Logansport, Crawfordsville,
and Southwestern Railway Company, an Indiana corporation,
executed to the Fidelity Insurance, Trust, and Safe Deposit
Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, located at Philadelphia,
as trustee, a mortgage to secure the payment of bonds to the
amount of $1,500,000, covering the railway of the mortgagor

from Logansport to Rockville, in length about ninety-two

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

Co.

289

miles, with all its franchises and property used in or connected
with the operation of said railway, which the mortgagor then
owned or might thereafter acquire. The bonds were coupon
bonds, payable in gold, in the year 1900, with interest at eight
per cent per annum, in gold, payable quarterly, on the first
days of November, February, May, and August. The mortgage provided that, in case of default in the payment of the
principal or interest of any of the bonds, the mortgagor would,
within six months after the default should occur, it still continuing, surrender to the trustee, on its demand, the possession
of the mortgaged property, and all management and control
thereof; that, if possession should be so taken, all expenses of
managing and operating the property should be paid from the
income, and, if the property should thereafter be sold, from
the sale; that the trustee, having taken possession, might manage and operate the road and property, and receive all the
income and apply it to pay the interest in default, first paying
all expenses of management and all charges on the property;
but that the trustee should not demand possession until required in writing to do so by the holders of at least one-half of
all the said issue of bonds then unpaid and outstanding. The
mortgage also provided that, in case of such default and its
continuance, the trustee might, after such entry, or other entry,
or without entry, sell the mortgaged property as an entirety, at
public auction, having first demanded of the mortgagor payment of all money then in default, and convey title to the
franchises and property to the purchaser, and first pay out of
the proceeds of sale all advances or liabilities of the trustee in
operating and maintaining the railway and property and managing its business and affairs while in possession, and then
apply the proceeds to paying, first, the interest on the bonds,
and then the principal, such payment to be made on the bonds
whether they should have become due or not at the time of
the sale. The mortgage also provided that, if there should be
a default continuing for six months after demand for the payment of any half-year's interest, the principal of the bonds
should immediately become due, and the trustee might so
declare and notify the mortgagor, and, on the written request
of the holders of a majority of the bonds, should proceed to
VOL. XV1.

19

290

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup.

Ct.

collect the principal and interest of the bonds by foreclosure
and sale of the property, or otherwise, as therein provided.
Up to and including Aug. 1, 1873, the Logansport Company
paid the interest on the bonds. On Nov. 1, 1873, and thereafter, it failed to pay any interest.
On the 1st of January, 1873, the Logansport Company executed to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a New York
corporation, located at the city of New York, as trustee, a
mortgage to secure the payment of bonds to the amount of
$500,000, covering the entire railroad of the mortgagor, with
all the property which it had or might at any time thereafter
acquire in the same, extending from Logansport to Rockville,
about ninety-two miles in length, with all branch roads extending from said main line, built or to be built, with the right of
way, and all the property used for operating and maintaining
said road and branches, whether then owned or thereafter to
be acquired, and all the corporate *franchises of the mortgagor.
The bonds were coupon bonds, payable in gold, in the year
1903, with interest at eight per cent per annum, in gold, payable semi-annually, on the first days of July and January.
The mortgage provided that, in case of default in the payment of any principal or interest, the mortgagor should, within
six months after such default, the default continuing, surrender
to the trustee, on its demand, the possession of the mortgaged
property, and that the expense of managing the property
should, if possession should be taken, be paid from the income,
and, if necessary, from the sale of such personal property as
the trustee might deem proper. The mortgage also contained
a warrant of attorney, by which, in case of default by the
mortgagor to pay any principal or interest for six months after
the same should become due, it authorized any attorney or
solicitor of the State of Indiana, after notice to it as thereinafter provided, to enter its appearance, without process, in any
court of competent jurisdiction, to any bill filed by the trustee
to foreclose and sell the mortgaged premises, and, if requested
by the trustee, to consent, on behalf of the mortgagor, that a
receiver be appointed forthwith, by order of said court, to take
possession of said railway or any part thereof, and of all or any
of the mortgaged property, on such terms as the court should

.1

,

/

,

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

Co.

291

prescribe, and to consent that a decree forthwith pass for the
sale of the whole or any part of the mortgaged property, without appraisement, but under the direction of the court, provided
that the trustee should not demand a surrender of possession,
or file a bill to foreclose and sell, unless requested in writing
by the holders of a majority in interest of the bonds at par.
The mortgage also provided that, in case of default in the
payment of any interest for six months after the demand of
payment after due, the whole principal money named in the
bonds should become due, and that, in case of a sale, the proceeds should be applied, first, to paying the trustee all reasonable expenses; second, to paying the principal and interest of
the bonds; and, third, to paying the surplus to the stockholders. The mortgage declared that it and its lien were
subordinate to the mortgage to the Fidelity Company. The
mortgagor did not pay any of the interest which fell due Jan.
1, 1874, and July 1, 1874, respectively.
On the 26th of August, 1874, the Farmers' Loan Company
filed, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Indiana, a bill for the foreclosure of the second mortgage,
making as parties the mortgagor and the Fidelity Company
and certain judgment creditors of the mortgagor. The bill set
forth that the mortgage to the Fidelity Company covered the
same property as the second mortgage, and that the latter was
subordinate to the lien of the former. It alleged facts showing
that, by the terms of the second mortgage, the entire indebtedness secured by it had become due; that a majority in interest
of the holders of the second-mortgage bonds had, in writing,
requested the plaintiff to foreclose the mortgage, and it had,
more than thirty days before filing the bill, given notice to the
mortgagor of its purpose to file the same; that the mortgagor
was insolvent and unable to pay its debts; that its entire property and franchises were not equal in value to the amount of
the two series of bonds; that its earnings, after paying current
expenses and necessary repairs, were inadequate to the payment of interest on the two series of bonds; that the only
possibility that it would in the future be able to pay the interest on the mortgage debt depended on its, or some person's, as
its representative, being permitted to operate the road untram-

292

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

CO.

[Sup.

Ct.

melled by the embarrassments under which it labored; that it
had a large floating debt, partly in judgment; and that executions had been levied on the property covered by the second
mortgage and used by it in the operation of the road, and such
property had been carried off by the officers of the law,
whereby the operations of the road had been crippled, and the
expense of its management increased, whilst its revenues were
diminished. The bill prayed a foreclosure of the rights of the
mortgagor and of the judgment creditors, and a sale of the
mortgaged property, and the application of the proceeds to
the payment of the plaintiff's claims according to law. It also
prayed the appointment of a receiver to take into his custody
and control the mortgaged property during the pendency of
the suit, to operate the railroad, receive its revenues, pay its
expenses, make repairs, and manage its entire business, and
any surplus revenues, after paying said expenses, to bring into
court and pay out, under the order of the court, "to such persons or corporations as shall, be adjudged by the court to be
entitled thereto."
On the day the bill was filed the Logansport Company put
in an answer admitting all the material allegations of the bill,
and that the plaintiff was entitled to the relief demanded.
On the same day, on the bill and said answer, the court made
an order that the Fidelity Company appear, and plead, answer,
or demur to the bill on or before the first Monday of November then next, and that a copy of said order be served on it
not less than thirty days prior to that day, and directing that
Spencer D. Schuyler be appointed receiver, on filing a bond,
to take into his custody and control the mortgaged property,
and all the property of the mortgagor of every kind and wherever situate, and empowering him to operate and manage said
road, receive its revenues, pay its operating expenses, make repairs, and manage its entire business, and to pay the arrears
due for operating expenses for a period in the past not exceeding ninety days, and to pay into the court all revenue over
operating expenses.
On the 29th of August, 1874, a copy of said order was served
on the Fidelity Company, by being given to its president, and
proof of such service was filed on the 31st of August, 1874.

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

Co.

293

The receiver, having filed his bond and entered on his duties,
the court, on his petition, made an order, on the 23d of September, 1874, giving him leave to sell an unserviceable car and
buy a new one, provided that, in the purchase, no lien should
arise, for the money expended, against the interest of the firstmortgage creditors.
On the 9th of September, 1874, the receiver filed a petition
representing that the rolling-stock of the road was insufficient
to meet the demands of business on the same; that the line of
the road was about eighty-seven miles long; that the company
owned only six locomotive-engines, on one of which was a lien
for its full value, and was paying a rental of $200 a month for
another; that it would be for the interest of the trust for him
to purchase four more locomotive-engines, and to make an adjustment in regard to the one hired and the one on which there
was a lien; that the company owned only two first-class passenger-cars and one second-class, and had in use ona passengercar on lease; that it owned but one baggage-car and had one
on lease; that it needed four more passenger-cars; that one of
its main branches of business was transporting coal, and its
rolling-stock suitable to be used in transporting coal was inadequate to meet the then demands of said business; that it
owned only twenty coal-cars free from lien, and about one
hundred and thirty on which there was a lien to their full
value; that he ought to be authorized to make an adjustment
respecting the latter and to purchase not over one hundred
additional coal-cars; that the business of the road was greatly
crippled for the want of such additional rolling-stock; that the
company was indebted to other and connecting lines of road in
about $10,000, for materials and repairs, and for ticket and
freight balances; that a part of said indebtedness was incurred
more than ninety days prior to the order of the court appointing him receiver and making provision for the payment of
certain claims, but the payment of that class of claims was
indispensable to the business of the road, and it would suffer
great detriment unless he was authorized to provide for them
at once; that about five miles of the road between Clymer's
Station and Logansport, including a bridge across the Wabash
River at Logansport, had never been built; that the city of

294

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Logansport had recently appropriated $80,000 to aid the railroad company to build said track and bridge, which -appropriation had been placed in the hands of a ti ustee, to be appropriated
as the work progressed; and that, as the completion of said
work would very largely increase the value of the property under his control, and materially aid the present and future business of the road, he asked for leave to expend such sums of
money as might be necessary to complete the railway between
the points named.
On the 30th of September, 1874, the receiver presented to
the court a supplemental petition, setting forth that the $80,000
for building the five miles of road was raised; that the bridge
would cost about $30,000; that the Detroit, Eel River, and
Illinois Railroad Company, with which the receiver's road would
form an advantageous connection by the building of the bridge
and the five miles of road, agreed to give to the Logansport
Company the one-half of the $80,000, so that that company
would be the sole owner of the bridge on paying one-half of
the cost of its construction; that five acres of valuable land at
Logansport had been given to the Logansport Company on condition that the five miles of road should be built, said land being
worth $2,500 and suitably located for a yard and shops of the
company; that the total cost of the five miles of road and the
bridge would not exceed $80,000 above the amounts given by
the city of Logansport and the Detroit Company; that the
necessary expenditure could be met by anticipating the earnings of the railway for a comparatively short time; that the
increased business that would accrue to the railway by the connections made by completing said five miles of road would soon
reimburse all moneys expended in constructing the same; that
the building of the five miles and the bridge would be greatly to
the advantage of the bondholders of the company and would add
a large amount to their security, because the five miles and the
bridge, when completed, would become part and parcel of the
property and covered by its mortgages; that the road, without
the completion of said five miles, had no terminus connecting it
with other lines, but ended at a point where there was no business of importance; and that said five miles was a part of the
original line of the railway and covered by both mortgages.

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

Co.

295

On the 3d of October, 1874, the court, on the said two petitions, made an order empowering the receiver to buy four new
locomotive-engines, four new passenger-cars, and one hundred
new coal-cars, and to make an adjustment respecting the liens
on, and rentals of, rolling-stock, and to pay the indebtedness to
other connecting lines for the purposes set forth in said petition,
not exceeding $10,000, notwithstanding said limitation of ninety
days, and to expend $30,000 in addition to said gifts and advances, to complete said five miles of road and said bridge, and
to enter into the contracts required therefor. The order provided that, as to all the moneys that might be expended, and
all liabilities incurred by the receiver in carrying out the provisions of the order, the earnings of the road were charged "as
with a first lien prior to all incumbrances upon said road."
On the 3d of November, 1874, the Fidelity Company filed
an answer to the bill, setting up the mortgage to it and its priority to the second mortgage. It admitted that the earnings of
the road had been inadequate to pay current expenses and
necessary repairs and the interest on the two series of bonds.
It denied that the appointment of a manager or receiver to
operate the road would enable the company to pay the interest
on its mortgage indebtedness, and alleged that to appoint a
manager or receiver of the road, with authority to incur expense and create fresh indebtedness, for which the road or its
earnings could in any way be made responsible, would only
perpetuate its past condition of embarrassment and be unjust
to the respondent and the holders of the first-mortgage bonds;
that the first mortgage could not rightfully, and ought not to
be, affected, or its lien impaired, by any proceedings on the
second mortgage; that any decree that might be made on the
bill should be made expressly subject to the first mortgage; and
that no order ought to be made in the cause that might or could
lessen the paramount lien of the first mortgage on the property
and franchises of the company, or impair the right of the holders of the first-mortgage bonds to proceed against the company
when entitled so to do under the mortgage.
No further proceedings in court, of any materiality, appear
to have taken place for eleven months. On the 4th of October,
1875, the receiver filed a report and statement, showing that

296

M'LTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup.

Ct.

he had constructed six miles of new road from Clymer's Station to Logansport, including the bridge, and had the same
in running operation as a part of the main line; that the cost
had been $104,651, of which he had paid and was to pay
$29,015.64; and that he had purchased rolling-stock, under
said order of the court, for $110,260.46, on which there was
unpaid $79,536.68. On the same day he filed a petition, showing that there was due from his trust $232,000,- being $80,000
on rolling-stock, $30,000 on the five miles of road and the
bridge, $25,000 for taxes, $25,000 for rights of way, $43,000
for back pay and supplies in operating the road, $20,000 for
rental due to the Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad Company for that portion of the line extending from Rockville to
Terre Haute, twenty-three miles, and $9,000 to the Missouri
Car and Foundry Company, on rolling-stock and in operating
the road; and that $90,000 was required to place the road in
proper running order. The petition prayed for authority to
borrow $322,000 for said purposes, on receiver's certificates,
made a first lien on the property, as for the best interest of
the trust property. It set forth the grounds for asking such
authority. As bearing on the interests of the first-mortgage
bondholders, it contained the following statement: "The receiver went to New York City in May last, to consult with the
first-mortgage bondholders, with the view of their taking some
steps for the financial relief of the road. While there he met
with parties holding and representing large numbers of the
bonds in Boston, New York, Baltimore, Philadelphia, and other
cities and their vicinities, and, as a result of his consultations
with them, a meeting was advertised and held at the Fifth
Avenue Hotel, in New York City, on May 24. At that meeting a committee was appointed to examine the road and ascertain its condition, its original cost, its present liabilities, and
what amount would be necessary to place it in working order,
&c., and to report at a subsequent meeting, to be called by the
chairman. That committee afterwards inspected the road, and,
at a meeting held in New York City, September 3, made their
report. To that meeting the original holders of the first-mortgage bonds were each invited by timely notice, naming the
time and place of the meeting, to hear the report of the com-

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBEOGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY 00.

297

mittee, and to take part in the deliberations of the meeting. A
large representation of the first-mortgage bondholders was present. A letter from the Hon. John Baird, chairman of the meeting, to the receiver, states that from $800,000 to .$1,000,000 were
represented. A copy of the minutes of that meeting, duly certified by its president and secretary, together with a copy of the
report of the committee previously appointed, is filed herewith.
By reference to the report of that committee the court will observe that three propositions were suggested to the bondholders,
viz.: 1st, Foreclosure of first mortgage and sale of the road.
2d, An assessment of not less than twenty per cent upon the par
value of the bonds held by them, to pay off debts and repair the
road. 3d, To devise some means for borrowing not less than
$300,000. These propositions were all fully discussed, and the
discussions resulted in the passage of a resolution directing the
receiver to obtain from the court authority to borrow, upon receiver's certificates, the sum of $322,000. The receiver was present and heard the discussions, and but repeats what was there
many times positively asserted, - that it would be impossible to
collect, in time for the pressing necessities of the hour, an assessment of the requisite amount of money from the bondholders.
Many of the bonds are held in small amounts by people of limited
means, who must have a lengthy previous notice of an assessment to be able to meet it, if at all. He would show to the
court, that, as he has observed the condition of the bondholders, be believes that an immediate foreclosure of the first-mortgage bonds, or any other steps requiring the early payment of
any considerable sum by the holders of bonds, would result in
the complete destruction of their interests, whereas, if the court
will make some present provision for these pressing necessities,
their interests will be preserved to them."
Thereupon the
court, on the same day, made an order setting forth that it appeared to its satisfaction that, under its orders, the receiver had
purchased for the use of the road, and then had in use on it,
as part of its property, rolling-stock on which there was due
$79,536.68, and that there was danger of losing the property
by reason of the forfeiture of the contract under which the
same had been purchased, unless provision was made for the
payment of that sum; and that, under its orders, he had in-

298

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[SUp. Ot.

curred liabilities, in constructing and completing the five miles
of road and the bridge, to the amount of $29,015.64, and that
said part of the road was a part of the line of the road, and
contributed materially to its value, and that there were the
said amounts due for taxes and rights of way and back pay and
supplies, making, in all, $201,552.32; and that it appeared that
those several sums could not at that time be paid or provided
for out of the current receipts of the road, and then authorizing the receiver to raise money for that purpose by issuing
and negotiating receiver's certificates, due in one year from
that date, bearing interest not to exceed eight per cent per
annum, and payable out of the income of said road, to bearer
or order, "which certificates are to be provided for by this
court in its final order in said cause, unless paid by the receiver
out of the income of said road as aforesaid." The order further set forth that, it appearing to the court that there were
other liabilities which had accrued "in connection with the
operating of said road," being the $20,000 due for rental to the
Evansville Company, and the $9,000 due for rental to the Missouri Car Company, and that $90,000 was required to place
the road in proper running order, and the same could not be
provided for out of its income, it was, therefore, further ordered
that, in case the plaintiff and the Fidelity Company, on due
notice given to them of such application by the receiver, should
file a memorandum therein consenting to that part of the
order, or stating that they had no objections thereto, the receiver should be authorized to issue receiver's certificates and
negotiate and sell them to raise money to pay said indebtedness and make said improvements, such certificates to be of
like tenor and date, and to be provided for in the same manner, as those first authorized, and not to be sold or used at less
than their par value. No certificates were ever issued under
the second branch of this order.
On the 27th of November, 1875, the court, on the petition of
the appellants in this appeal, filed on the part of themselves and
all other holders of the first mortgage bonds, made the appellants
parties defendant to said suit, and gave them leave to file an
answer and a cross-bill. On the same day their answer was
filed. It contained substantially the same allegations and deni-

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

Co.

299

als as the answer of the Fidelity Company, and, in addition,
admitted that the mortgagor was insolvent and unable to pay
its debts, and that its entire property and franchises were not
equal in value to the amount of the two series of bonds, and
that the appointment of a manager or receiver to operate and
run the road was necessary.
On the same day the appellants filed a cross-bill, on their
own behalf and on behalf of all holders of the first-mortgage
bonds who should choose to join in the prosecution of the suit,
making as defendants the Logansport Company, the Farmers'
Loan Company, the Fidelity Company, and sundry judgment
creditors. The cross-bill set forth the filing and the contents
of the original bill and the proceedings in the original suit, including the petitions of Sept. 9, 23, and 30, 1874, the order of
Oct. 3, 1874, the report of Oct. 4, 1875, and the petition and
the order of the same date. It set forth the first mortgage,
and averred that, before Aug. 26, 1874, the mortgagor built
a line of road from Rockville to Clymer's Station, a point
between five and six miles southwesterly from Logansport,
being a portion of the line contemplated by its charter and by
said first mortgage, and acquired certain property which it used
in constructing said road and in connection with operating it,
and certain other property intended for the purpose of building the remainder of the road from Clymer's Station to Logansport, all of which were within the terms, and covered by the
lien, of the first mortgage; that, since the appointment of said
Schuyler as receiver, he had built and completed said line of
road from Clymer's Station to Logansport, and said bridge,
and had acquired a large amount of personal property connected therewith, including certain lands intended to be used
for machine-shops at Logansport, and certain rolling-stock and
other property for use on said railroad, and had, in so doing,
used much of the property subject to the lien of the first mortgage; and that all of said property acquired by the mortgagor,
and that so acquired by the receiver, and the road built by
him, were equitably subject to the lien of the first mortgage.
The cross-bill set forth the failure of the mortgagor to pay the
interest on the first-mortgage bonds on and after Nov. 1, 1873,
and averred that on and always after Oct. 20, 1873, it was

300

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

insolvent; that its entire property had not been and was not of
sufficient value to pay the first series of bonds; and that its
income had not been and was not more than sufficient to pay
its necessary expenses incurred in operating and managing its
property and making necessary and proper repairs. The crossbill also set forth that a meeting of the bondholders was held
May 24, 1875, at which the holders of a considerable number
of the bonds of both series were present, and a committee was
appointed to examine the road and ascertain its condition, original cost, and present liabilities, and the amount which would
be necessary to place it in working order, and to report at a
subsequent meeting; and that, on the 3d of September, 1875,
said committee reported to an adjourned meeting its views respecting the property, to the effect that repairs and other
expenditures to put the road in fair condition for use were
needed, to the amount of several hundred thousand dollars;
that additional rolling-stock, to the amount of $168,000, was
needed for the efficient conduct of its business; that liens to
the amount of $322,000, being the items above mentioned,
superior in dignity to the bonded debt, existed; that there
were claims against the road and the receiver aggregating
$25,000 ; that the income of the road over actual operating expenses and repairs, for 1874, was about $20,000 ; and that there
had been a deficit of $79,800.87 during the same time, by
reason of what were called extraordinary expenses, and, during
the six months next preceding July 1, 1875, a like deficit of
$43,883.50, and an income of $3,000, after deducting what were
called extraordinary expenses. The cross-bill averred that
said statistics and statements were substantially correct, but it
denied that there were any prior liens to the lien of the first
mortgage. It averred that the committee in substance recommended that the first mortgage should not be foreclosed, and
that the receiver should apply to the court for leave to borrow
$322,000, payable in one year, to relieve the road from its
present necessities, and said sum should be made a first lien
upon said property, prior to the lien of either mortgage; that
said report was made at the instance of said Schuyler and of
the holders of the second-mortgage bonds; that the holders
of first-mortgage bonds, including the plaintiffs, to the amount

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

801

of $148,700, had not consented to said scheme for borrowing
money, and had joined in the cross-bill; that the plaintiffs
desired, and had for more than a year last past desired and
sought, to have the first mortgage foreclosed and the property
sold; that they elected that the principal and interest should
be due; that the Fidelity Company had refused, after request,
to take measures to foreclose the first mortgage; that, under
pretence of improving the property and increasing its value
and earnings and acquiring additional property, the entire property was being destroyed, and liens were being attempted to be
created to take precedence of the first-mortgage lien; that the
Fidelity Company refused to take any means to preserve the
property; that no material part of the sum of $201,552.32,
which the said receiver had been authorized to borrow, could
be paid from the income of the road, and it was not probable
the interest on it could be paid from said income; that the
borrowing of it for one year was not in the interest of the firstmortgage bondholders, and it ought not to be made a first lien
upon the property; and that said Schuyler did not own any of
the first-mortgage bonds, but was interested only in the secondmortgage bonds and the stock, and, for various reasons assigned,
was not a proper person to have charge of the property. The
cross-bill prayed for the sale of the mortgaged property to pay
the first-mortgage bonds, and for the appointment of a receiver
to take possession of the property and operate the road, and for
the removal of Schuyler as receiver.
On the 18th of December, 1875, the plain'tiffs in the crossbill moved for a receiver thereunder and for the discharge of
Schuyler as receiver. A reference to a master was ordered to
take evidence on the subject.
Nothing further of importance appears to have been done in
the suit until the 1st of MIay, 1876, when the Fidelity Company
filed an answer to the cross-bill, averring that it had declined
to take proceedings to foreclose the first mortgage because it
had not been requested to do so by the holders of a majority
of the first-mortgage bonds, and that their true interests would
be best subserved by an early foreclosure of said mortgage. On
the same day the Farmers' Loan Company and the mortgagor
filed separate answers to the cross-bill. These answers denied

302

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

all allegations made against Schuyler in the cross-bill, and
alleged that all improvements had been made in good faith,
for the benefit of the property, and had added largely to its
value.
On the 3d of May, 1876, the original suit and the cross-suit
were brought to a hearing together on the bills and the answers
therein and certain stipulations, and one decree was made in
both suits, on the 17th of May, 1876, consolidating the suits,
adjudging what was due on each mortgage, and declaring that
the properties covered by the two mortgages were one and the
same, and that the lien created by them respectively covered
all the property held by the mortgagor at the time of the
bringing of the original suit and all subsequent additions made
thereto. The decree described said property as being the railroad from Logansport to Rockville, ninety-two miles, with all
branch roads extending from said line, which had been built or
acquired by the mortgagor, or for its use, with all its franchises
and property which had been acquired for the purpose of operating said road and its branches, and all leases, contracts, and
agreements made with the mortgagor or for its use and benefit.
It declared that the lien of the first mortgage was superior to
that of the second mortgage upon all of said property. It provided for a redemption of the first-mortgage lien by the second
mortgagee, and, on failure, for a foreclosure of all its rights in
said property except in the proceeds of a sale. It provided for
the presentation before a master of claims by the holders of
first-mortgage bonds and coupons, and of claims to an interest
in the property, and of claims against the receiver arising out
of his actings and doings as such, allowing any parties interested in the funds to be derived from a sale to dispute and
contest such claims. It reserved all questions concerning priority of liens, except as between persons entitled under the
first and second mortgages, and declared that it should not be
necessary to pass on said claims before having a sale.
On the 25th of July, 1876, the court appointed Joseph P.
Claybrook joint receiver with Schuyler in the original suit,
without prejudice to the right of the plaintiffs in the cross-bill
and of the Fidelity Company to claim that the receivership of
Schuyler was not in their interest and by their consent, as fully

Oct. 1882.]

MILT3ENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

CO.

303

as they might have done if no such joint receiver had b~en
appointed, and the order declared that it should not be held to
entitle the first-mortgage bondholders, or their trustee, to any
of the income of the property which might be realized by the
receivers, until said Claybrook should qualify as receiver, or
until Schuyler should requalify, which he was ordered to do by
a day named. Olaybrook qualified on the 11th of August, 1876,
and after that acted as sole receiver, until Schuyler requalified
on the 25th of August, 1876.
Under the decree of May 17, 1876, the master made reports,
from time to time, as to claims, allowing some wholly or in part
and rejecting some. Various questions arise on this appeal in
respect to those of said claims which were allowed.
On the 20th of October, 1876, Claybrook filed a report, stating that, as receiver, he took possession, on the 12th of August,
1876, of the line of railway from Logansport to Rockville,
92-,6u miles, and a line of railway from Rockville to Terre
Haute, 23 miles, said to belong to the Evansville and Crawfordsville Railway Company, and 4-19
miles of side-tracks at
stations between Logansport and Rockville, and a hand-railway,
12 to 2 miles, from Sand Creek to the coal-mines, and certain
station buildings and other property, and certain rolling-stock,
some owned by the mortgagor and some leased by it.
On the 22d of November, 1876, the court suspended Schuyler from his position as receiver. On the 1st of December,
1876, an order was made, on the consent of Schuyler and the
plaintiffs in the cross-suit, vacating said order of suspension
and accepting Schuyler's resignation as receiver, and allowing
him $500 for services and expenses as joint receiver, and
$15,330.29 for salary as separate receiver, without prejudice to
the rights of the parties to contest any matter connected with
the accounts of Schuyler as receiver, except as therein expressed, or any claims made under said accounts and asserted
against said trust estate, or the claim that the receiver's indebtedness should have priority over the first mortgage.
On the 19th of February, 1877, the plaintiffs in the crosssuit filed a paper setting forth that any fund derived from the
property covered by the first mortgage, or from any property
acquired for the use of said railway, which was or should be

304

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

subject to the lien of said mortgage, ought not to be charged
with any indebtedness whatever, whether incurred by the mortgagor, or by Schuyler, as receiver, under the prayer of the original bill; also objecting to certain items in Schuyler's account,
because credited or'paid out without the authority of the court,
or upon accounts or contracts and debts which accrued or were
made and matured more than three months before Schuyler
became receiver, or because for indebtedness which Schuyler, as
receiver, had not lawful authority to incur or pay, or because
for his personal indebtedness, or unnecessary or excessive ; also
alleging that the receiver's certificates and certain notes were
issued improvidently and improperly and without the authority
of the court. Afterwards, further objections, of like tenor,
were filed to other items. The plaintiffs in the cross-suit also
filed various exceptions to the reports of the master allowing
various claims.
On the 22d of January, 1879, after a hearing as to the
claims, on the reports, the evidence, and the exceptions, the
court made an order allowing certain claims, many of them
not over $5,000, specifying the names of the claimants and
the amounts allowed, and referring back the claim of the
Evansville Company for further evidence, and a report based on
certain specified rulings then made. The order also contained
this provision: "All claims allowed by the court, by this order
of this day, against the receiver, are adjudged to be valid claims,
to be paid out of the funds in the possession of the court, as
well from the income of the road as from the proceeds of any sale
hereafter made, and prior in equity to any claims of the mortgagees of the railroad, the court reserving to the mortgagees
the right to object to any order hereafter to be made in distributing the whole or any part of the funds which may be in
court arising from the income of the railroad, or from the sale
of the same." In the order the plaintiffs in the cross-suit
prayed an appeal to this court.
On the 25th of June, 1879, the master filed a special report
as to the claim of the Evansville Company, to which, two days
afterwards, the plaintiffs in the cross-suit filed exceptions. On
the 3d of July, 1879, the court allowed the claim at $35,318.62,
in preference to the mortgage liens. On the same day it made

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY Co.

805

a decree for the sale, as an entirety, by the master, of the road
from Logansport to Rockville, together with all the branch
roads of the mortgagor extending from said main line, which
had been built or acquired by it or for its use, together with
all its franchises and property owned by it, or which had been
acquired for the purpose of operating said road, together with all
contracts and agreements made with it or for its use or benefit,
giving a particular description of the property in schedules.
The decree provided that, out of the net proceeds of sale, the
master should pay, first, the costs of suit and the allowances
made to the trustees and the solicitors; second, the taxes;
third, the claims against the receivership and fund in court
allowed by the order of Jan. 22, 1879, and the claim of the
Evansville Company as so allowed, and all other claims against
said receivership and fund which might thereafter be allowed,
and which might remain unpaid after the funds in the hands
of the receiver, not otherwise disposed of, should have been
exhausted; fourth, the surplus to be applied, first, to the payment of the first-mortgage bonds and coupons pro rata, and
the remainder, if any, to be distributed as the court njght
thereafter direct. The decree contained a prayer for an appeal from it to this court, by the plaintiffs in the cross-suit.
That appeal was perfected.
This chronological history of the proceedings in the case
is given, because a full understanding of those proceedings
conduces to an easy solution of the questions involved in the
appeal herein.
The appellees insist that the appeal should be dismissed for
the alleged reason that the parties have not been named as
either appellants or appellees on the docket of this court or in
the transcript. But the order of Jan. 22, 1879, allows the
claims, specifying the persons to whom allowed and the
amounts, and the body of the order states that the plaintiffs
in the cross-suit pray an appeal to this court; and the decree
of July 8, 1879, orders the payment of the claims allowed by
the order of Jan. 22, 1879, and contains a prayer by the plaintiffs in the cross-suit for an appeal from said decree. These
were appeals in open court, not requiring citations, and the
order and the decree appealed from sufficiently designated all
VOL. XVI.

20

306

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

the appellees by name, and the appeals were appeals from the
whole of the order and the whole of the decree. The decision
in The Protector, 11 Wall. 82, does not apply to a case of this
kind.
As a general proposition, applicable to the whole case, the
appellants insist that the mortgagee under the second mortgage
carried out a fraudulent scheme to obtain a priority over the
lien of the first mortgage for the claims allowed, without giving
the mortgagee under the first mortgage an opportunity to resist
it until after the orders had been obtained and acted on. As
evidence of this, the fact is urged that the first mortgagee was
made a party to the original foreclosure suit, without any relief
being asked against him. It is contended that the first mortgagee was not a proper party to the bill. The appointment of
the receiver without notice to the first mortgagee, although a
party to the suit, is commented on, coupled with the fact that
its day of appearance was fixed as being on or before the first
Monday of November then next. It is further suggested that,
under the receivership originally created, the second-mortgage
bondholders alone were entitled to the income from that receivership, and that the trust fund under the control of the
court was only that which the second mortgagee could put
there; namely, the mortgagor's right to an equity of redemption
as against the second mortgagee, and not the entire property.
We see no warrant for the charge of fraud. The second
mortgagee, in filing its bill, made the first mortgagee a party,
though admitting the priority of the lien of the first mortgage,
and not asking any direct relief against the first mortgagee,
evidently because a receiver was prayed for. This was proper.
Although the order of Aug. 26, 1874, appointing the receiver,
was made without notice to the first mortgagee, it was served
on the first mortgagee three days after it was made; and its
broad terms, as to the powers conferred on the receiver, called
upon the first mortgagee to appear in the suit promptly, to protect the interests of the first-mortgage bondholders, and not to
wait, as it did, until the first Monday of November following.
It was required by the order to appear and answer "on or
before" that day. It waited until that day before appearing
or answering. The original bill evinced no intention to create

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

307

a receivership for the sole benefit of the second-mortgage bondholders. On the contrary, it asked that the net revenue of the
receivership should be paid to such persons or corporations as
should be adjudged by the court to be entitled to it. This was
in substance saying to the first mortgagee that it too had an interest in the receivership. The receiver's petitions, filed September 9 and September 30 following, respectively, were not
acted on till October 3, after the first mortgagee had had ample
time to appear. These petitions showed the pressing necessity
of the road. The authority conferred by the order of October 3
was intended to benefit the res in the hands of the court, which
was the entire mortgaged property, as covered by both mortgages, and not merely the equity of redemption of the mortgagor
as against the second mortgagee. Whatever may be the rule as
to the rents and profits of a mortgaged estate, under a receivership, on a bill filed by a second mortgagee, where the first mortgagee is not made a party to the suit, that rule has not been
applied to such a receivership where the first mortgagee was
made a party, especially on a bill such as that in this case. The
authorities limit the exclusive right of the second mortgagee to
the income of a receivership created under a bill filed by him,
to a case where the first mortgagee is not a party to the suit.
Howell v. Ripley, 10 Paige (N. Y.), 43; High on Receivers, sect.
688. It is further to be observed, that, the mortgagor having
defaulted in paying its interest on the first-mortgage bonds on
the 1st of November, 1873, the first mortgagee was entitled,
by the terms of its mortgage, to take possession of the mortgaged property and operate the road. Moreover, the cross-bill
was not filed for more than a year after the receiver had been
appointed, and it was, in judgment of law or in fact, fully
known all the time to the first-mortgage bondholders what was
being done by the receiver in creating the claims now sought
to be disputed; nor was it filed for more than a year after the
first mortgagee had appeared and answered in the original suit.
It was at all times competent for the first mortgage trustee, as
a party to that suit, to have asked the court to protect the
interests of the bondholders, in case the receiver was disregarding them; and the cross-bill could as well have been filed
earlier as later by the plaintiffs in it or by other bondholders.

308

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[SUD. Ct.

On these views the charge of fraud, made by the appellants,
has no basis. On the other hand, it did not comport with
the principles of equity for the appellants to lie by and see the
court and the receiver dealing with the property in the manner now complained of, and content themselves with merely
protesting generally and disclaiming all interest under the
receivership, and yet assert, as they did in the cross-bill, that
the piece of road from Clymer's Station to Logansport, and
the bridge, and the land, and the rolling-stock, and the other
property acquired by the receiver, and now alleged to have
been acquired by him without authority, were subject to the
lien of the first mortgage, and now claim the proceeds of all
that property, without paying the debts incurred for acquiring
it. A court of equity, however it might act on the question
of original authority or discretion, if presented in season and
under circumstances of good faith, will not visit upon innocent
parties dealing with a receiver within the authority of its orders, consequences which result from the inequitable negligence
and supineness of a party to the suit, or of those represented by
him. The cross-bill alleges that the plaintiffs in it had desired
for more than a year to have the first mortgage foreclosed.
The original bill set forth ample grounds for appointing a
receiver promptly. The payment of interest on the secondmortgage bonds ceased Jan. 1, 1874. That mortgage gave a
warrant of attorney for the appointment of a receiver forthwith, after six months' default, -a
provision not in the first
mortgage.
The order of Aug. 26, 1874, is questioned by the appellants
because it empowered the receiver "to pay the arrears due for
operating expenses for a period in the past not exceeding
ninety days." They also object to the order of Oct. 3, 1874,
because it authorized the receiver to purchase rolling-stock and
to adjust the liens on rolling-stock, and to pay indebtedness,
n.ot exceeding $10,000, to other connecting lines of road, in
settlement of ticket and freight accounts and balances, and for
materials and repairs, which had accrued in part more than
ninety days before Aug. 26, 1874, and to construct the piece
of road from Clymer's Station to Logansport, and the bridge
across the Wabash River, and to enter into contracts necessary

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY

CO.

809

therefor, and because it provided that, as to all moneys that
might be expended, and all liabilities incurred, by the receiver
in carrying out the provisions of the order, the earnings of the
road were charged "as with a first lien prior to all incumbrances upon said road." They also object to the order of
Oct. 4, 1875, because it provided that the certificates which
might be issued by the receiver under that order were to be
provided for by the court in its final order in the cause, unless
paid by the receiver out of the income of the road. They also
object to the order of Jan. 22, 1879, because it adjudged all
claims allowed by it against the receiver to be valid claims, to
be paid out of the funds in the possession of the court, as well
from the income of the road as from the proceeds of any sale
to be thereafter made, and prior in equity to any claims of the
mortgagees of the railroad. They also object to the decree of
July 3, 1879, because it directed the master to pay out of the
proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property the several
claims againqt the receivership which had been allowed by the
order of Jan. 22, 1879, in preference to the amount due by the
mortgagor to the holders of the first-mortgage bonds and
coupons; and because it directed the master to pay the claim
of the Evansville Company, and all other claims against the
receivership which might thereafter be allowed, and which
might remain unpaid after the funds in the hands of the
receiver, not otherwise disposed of, should have been exhausted,
in preference to the amount due on the first-mortgage indebtedness; and because it did not order that the accounts of the
receiver should be adjusted and settled before the master
should pay out of the proceeds of the sale of the property any
of the amounts allowed as debts against the receiver; and because it directed a sale to be made of the property covered by
the first mortgage, and that acquired by the receiver, under the
orders of the court, as an entire property, and did not separate
the two classes of property or the funds to be realized from
them respectively.
The question of the power of a court to create claims
through receivers in a suit for the foreclosure of a railroad
mortgage, which shall take precedence of the lien of the mortgage, was considered by this court in Wallace v. Loomis, 97

310-

MILTENBERGER V. LoGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

U. S. 146. There, in a suit for the foreclosure of the first mortgage on a railroad, to which the trustees of a second mortgage
were parties, the court, on notice, appointed receivers, with
power to put the road in repair and operate it, and complete
any unfinished portions, and procure rolling-stock, and for these
purposes to raise money by loan to an amount named in the
order, and to issue their certificates of indebtedness therefor,
which should be a first lien on the property, payable before
the first-mortgage bonds. Wallace, a holder of second-mortgage bonds, afterwards became a party to the suit. The final
decree declared that the moneys raised by loan, or advanced
by the receivers, and expended on the road, pursuant to their
order of appointment, were a lien paramount to the first mortgage, and it directed them and such receivers' certificates or
other indebtedness as might. thereafter be ordered by the
court to be paid, to be paid out of the proceeds of the sale
of the road before paying any of the first-mortgage bonds or
coupons. On an appeal by Wallace, this court, by Mr. Justice Bradley, said: "The power of a court of equity to appoint managing receivers of such property as a railroad, when
taken under its charge as a trust fund for the payment of incumbrances, and to authorize such receivers to raise money
necessary for the preservation and management of the property, and make the same chargeable as a lien thereon for its
repayment, cannot at this day be seriously disputed. It is a
part of that jurisdiction, always exercised by the court, by
which it is its duty to protect and preserve the trust funds in
its hands. It is, undoubtedly, a power to be exercised with
great caution, and, if possible, with the consent or acquiescence
of the parties interested in the fund." Wallace had not become a party to the suit until several months after the order
complained of was made. This court sustained the decree.
The principle thus recognized covers most of the objections
here urged. The facts set forth in the petitions of Sept. 9 and
80, 1874, on which the order of Oct. 3, 1874, was based, show
ample reasons for making that order, in respect to the purchase of rolling-stock, and the adjustment of liens thereon, and
the construction of the Clymer Division and the bridge. The
contents of those petitions have been set forth.'

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGEP v. LOGANSPOnT RAILWAY 00.

311

In respect to the $10,000 due other and connecting lines of
road for materials and repairs and for ticket and freight balances, a part of which it was stated was incurred more than
ninety days before the 26th of August, 1874, the first petition
stated that payment of that class of claims was indispensable
to the business of the road, and that, unless the receiver was
authorized to provide for them at once, the business of the
road would suffer great detriment. These reasons were satisfactory to the court. In the examination by the master of the
accounts of the receiver, evidence was taken as to the payment
by him of items due, when he took possession, for operating
expenses, and of moneys due other and connecting lines for the
matters named. The report of the master shows that he disallowed several items in the receiver's accounts, claimed under
the above heads, where the claims were made on the ground
that the creditors threatened not to furnish any more supplies
on credit unless they were paid the arrears. His action, sanctioned by the court, in allowing items within the scope of the
orders of the court, appears to have been careful, discriminating, and judicious, so far as the facts can be arrived at from the
record. It cannot be affirmed that no items which accrued
before the appointment of a receiver can be allowed in any
case. Many circumstances may exist which may make it
necessary and indispensable to the business of the road and
the preservation of the property, for the receiver to pay preexisting debts of certain classes, out of the earnings of the
receivership, or even the corpus of the property, under the
order of the court, with a priority of lien. Yet the discretion
to do so should be exercised with very great care. The payment of such debts stands, primafacie,on a different basis from
the payment of claims arising under the receivership, while it
may be brought within the principle of the latter by special
circumstances. It is easy to see that the payment of unpaid
debts for operating expenses, accrued within ninety days, due
by a railroad company suddenly deprived of the control of its
property, due to operatives in its employ, whose cessation from
work simultaneously is to be deprecated, in the interests both
of the property and of the public, and the payment of limited
amounts due to other and connecting lines of road for materials

312

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and repairs and for unpaid ticket and freight balances, the outcome of indispensable business relations, where a stoppage of
the continuance of such business relations would be a probable
result, in case of non-payment, the general consequence involving largely, also, the interests and accommodation of travel and
traffic, may well place such payments in the category of payments to preserve the mortgaged property in a large sense, by
maintaining the good-will and integrity of the enterprise, and
entitle them to be made a first lien. This view of the public
interest in such a highway for public use as a railroad is, as
bearing on the maintenance and use of its franchises and property in the hands of a receiver, with a view to public convenience, was the subject of approval by this court, speaking
through Mr. Justice Woods, in Barton v. Barbour,104 U. S. 126.
The appellants furnish no basis for questioning any specific
amounts allowed in respect of the arrears referred to, but
object to the allowance of anything out of the sale of the
corpus for such expenditures. Under all the circumstances of
this case, we see no valid objection to the provisions of the
orders complained of.
The objections made to the orders of Oct. 4, 1875, and Jan.
22, 1879, and to certain provisions in the decree of July 8, 1879,
fail, for the reasons before stated.
Specific objection is made to the allowance of the claim of
the Evansville Company to be paid in preference to the firstmortgage bonds. The Evansville road ran from Rockville to
Terre Haute, twenty-three miles. The mortgagor had, in
June, 1872, hired that road by a written lease, the term of
which was for one year and until one year's notice of its termination should be given by either party, after that term. The
rent was $2,012.50 per month, and the lessee was to maintain
the road in as good condition as when received, and to permit
the Evansville Company to use six miles of it at a stipulated
price. Provision was made, in the lease, for initial and subsequent inspection of the road, to ascertain its condition, and any
improvement or depreciation the lessor or the lessee was to
pay the other party for, in accordance. The lessee used the
road from July 1, 1872, until the receiver was appointed.
He took possession of it and ran it while he was receiver, as a

Oct. 1882.]

MILTENBERGER v. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

313

continuation of his road, and so did he and Claybrook afterwards, and subsequently Claybrook, as sole receiver, did the
same. The rent was paid to Sept. 1, 1874, then for a year it
was not paid, then it was paid for four months, then it was
unpaid to Aug. 12, 1876, and after that Claybrook, as receiver,
paid it as it accrued. During all the time from Sept. 1,
1874, the successive receivers collected from the Evansville
Company, every month, $262.50 for the use of the six miles.
In the winter of 1876 there was found, on inspection, a depreciation of $19,346.82. The Evansville Company made a claim
against the receiver for the unpaid rent, the amount of the
depreciation, the value of certain supplies, and the rent of an
engine. The master reported as due $56,036.21. On exceptions, the court directed the master to ascertain what would be
a fair rental value for the use of the leased property by the
receivers, and to take into consideration any dilapidations. On
this basis a new report, for $35,318.62, was made, and this
amount was allowed, with a preference. We see no valid objection to this allowance. It is on the basis, not of the lease,
but of the actual value of the use of property used by the
receivers, with the clear assent, under the circumstances, of all
parties interested, which use the first-mortgage bondholders
and their trustee, chargeable with full knowledge, never sought
to prevent, such use being founded on the lease, which was
property in the hands of the mortgagor. The line was used
for the benefit of the mortgagor's road and of the holders of
the bonds under the mortgages, with their acquiescence.
Whatever the court would have done, as an original question,
if called on to determine whether the receiver should use and
run the Evansville road, these appellants must now be held, in
view of all the facts, to have consented to treat the right to
run that road, and take its income, as if that right were a
part of the mortgaged property and subject to the same rules
as the other mortgaged property. This leads to the allowance,
also, of the claims for operating supplies and materials, including steel rails, furnished for that road while so run.
As to the objection that the decree of July 3, 1879, was
erroneous in not requiring the accounts of the receiver to be
settled before any payment should be made, out of the proceeds

314

MILTENBERGER V. LOGANSPORT RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

of sale, of any amounts allowed as debts against the receiver,
the contention is, that items may yet be disallowed to the
receiver, which will leave in the fund derived from income
moneys applicable to pay debts incurred by the receiver, and
so decrease the deficiency of income, and that the final decree
of July 3, 1879, was erroneous in going beyond all prior orders,
and not keeping the income separate from the proceeds of sale,
and in directing the debts allowed to be paid wholly, at once,
out of the proceeds of sale. This view rests entirely on the
mistaken idea that the first-mortgage bondholders and their
trustee had no interest in any income of the receivership
created under the original bill. If hereafter there shall arise
any receiver's net fund, the court must apply it to pay, in the
same order of rank as in the final decree, the four sets of creditors therein mentioned, and which is the proper order, as we
hold. The creditors having these claims against the receiver
were bona fide creditors, and have waited long to receive their
due. It was very proper, under the correct view of the law
taken by the court below, that it should not compel them to
wait longer for the settlement of the receiver's accounts, in
which they have no interest.
Under the foregoing views, the objection that there was
error in ordering the sale of the property as an entire property
fails.
Many points were urged by the counsel for the appellants
which are either disposed of under the views we have announced, or are not, though they have been considered, deemed
of sufficient importance for special remark. The decree of the
Circuit Court must be affirmed. In reaching this conclusion
we have assumed that the appeal has brought before us the
claims which are not over $5,000, and have not considered
the question as to whether this is or is not a case in which
our jurisdiction as to those claims could be successfully challenged.
Decree affrmed.

