VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

[Sup. Ct.

transaction, or that his agency had ceased when the matter in
suit arose.
In the record, a copy of which was offered -in evidence in this
case, there was nothing to show, so far as we can see, that
the Winthrop Mining Company was engaged in business in the
State when service was made on Colwell. The return of the
officer, on which alone reliance was placed to sustain the jurisdiction of the State court, gave no information on the subject.
It did not, therefore, appear even prima facie that Colwell
stood in any such representative character to the company as
would justify the service of a copy of the writ on him. The
certificate of the sheriff, in the absence of this fact in the
record, was insufficient to give the court jurisdiction to render
The
a personal judgment against the foreign corporation.
record was, therefore, properly excluded.
J"udgment affirmed.

VAN WYcK

V. KNEvALS.

1. Subject to the exceptions therein mentioned, the act of July 23, 1866, c. 212,
granted, for the use and benefit of the St. Joseph and Denver City Railroad
Company, the odd-numbered sections of public land within a prescribed distance on each side of the proposed road. The company duly filed in the
office of the Secretary of the Interior a map showing the definite location of
the line of the road. Held, that the grant was in prcsenti, and attached to
those sections as soon as the map was so filed. No valid adverse right or title
to any part of them could be acquired by a subsequent settlement or entry.
2. On the failure of the company to complete the work, a forfeiture of the grant,
if it resulted therefrom, can be enforced only by the United States through
judicial proceedings, or the action of Congress. A third party cannot set
it up to validate his title, nor avail himself of the fact that the company,
in constructing, deviated from the original line, if the lands which he claims
are within the prescribed distance from it and the road as built.
3. After the company had filed with the Secretary of the Interior its map of
definite location, a party entered a portion of the sections covered by the
grant, and a patent therefor was issued to him by the United States. Held,
that the patent created a cloud upon the company's right and title, and
furnishes ground for equitable relief.
4. Qucre, Where Congress conferred upon a railway company created by a State
authority to construct its road within an organized Territory, can the latter, when admitted into the Union as a State, impose any impediment to
the full enjoyment by the company of all the rights resulting from tho
exercise of that authority.

Oct. 1882.]

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The first section of the act of Congress of July 23, 1866,
c. 212, is as follows: "That there is hereby granted to the State
of Kansas, for the use and benefit of the Saint Joseph and
Denver City Railroad Company, the same being a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Kansas, to construct
and operate a railroad from Elwood, in Kansas, westwardly via
Marysville, in the same State, so as to effect a junction with
the Union Pacific Railroad, or any branch thereof, not further
vest than the one hundredth meridian of west longitude, every
alternate section of land designated by odd numbers, for ten
sections in width on each side of said road to the point of
intersection. But in case it shall appear that the United
States have, when the line or route of said road is definitely
fixed, sold any section or any part thereof, granted as aforesaid,
or that the right of pre-emption or homestead settlement has
attached to the same, or that the same has been reserved by
the United States for any purpose whatever, then it shall be
the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to cause to be selected
for the purpose aforesaid, from the public lands of the United
States nearest to tiers of sections above specified, so much land
in alternate sections or parts of sections designated by odd
numbers as shall be equal to such lands as the United States
have sold, reserved, or otherwise appropriated, or to which the
rights of pre-emption or homestead settlements have attached
as aforesaid; which lands thus indicated by odd numbers and
selected by direction of the Secretary of the Interior as aforesaid shall be held by the State of Kansas for the use and purpose aforesaid."
There are several provisos to this section which have no
bearing upon the matters involved in this suit.
The third section provides that the lands granted "shall
inure to the benefit of said company as follows: When the
governor of the State of Kansas shall certify that any section
of ten consecutive miles of said road is completed in good, substantial, and workmanlike manner as a first-class railroad, then
the Secretary of the Interior shall issue to the said company
patents for so many sections of said land hereinbefore granted

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

[Sup. Ct.

as lie opposite to and coterminous with the said completed sections, and when certificates of the governor aforesaid shall be
presented to the Secretary of the completion, as aforesaid, of
each successive section of ten consecutive miles of said road
the said Secretary shall in like manner issue to said company
patents for the said sections of said lands as aforesaid for each
of said sections of road until said road shall be completed:
Provided, that if said railroad company or its assigns shall fail
to complete at least one section of said road each year from
the date of its acceptance of the grant provided for in this act,
then its right to the lands for said section so failing of completion shall revert to the government of the United States:
Providedfurther,that if said road is not completed within ten
years from the date of the acceptance of the grant hereinbefore made, the lands remaining unpatented shall revert to
the United States."
The fourth section declares, "that as soon as the said company shall file with the Secretary of the Interior maps of its line
designating the route thereof, it shall be the duty of the said
Secretary to withdraw from the market the lands granted by
this act in such manner as may be best calculated to effect the
purposes of this act and subserve the public interest."
The company accepted the act, and filed, March 25, 1870,
with the Secretary of the Interior a map of the line of its road
which the directors had approved on the 21st of that month.
The Secretary sent it to the Commissioner of, the General
Land-Office with the following letter :"DEPARTmENT

OF THE INTERIOR)

D. C., March 26, 1870.
"SIR, - I transmit herewith a map of the definite location of the
"WAsHINGToN,

line of road of the Saint Joseph and Denver City Railroad Company from Elwood, in Kansas, via Marysville, in said State, to a
connection with the Union Pacific Railroad at the southwest corner
of section 36, in township 9 north, of range 16 west, in the State
of Nebraska.
"You will instruct the proper local officers to withhold from sale
or other disposal all odd-numbered sections falling within the limits
of twenty miles on each side of the line of road.
"In thus directing the land to be withdrawn conformably to the

Oct. 1882.]

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

fourth section of the act of July 23, 1866, I deem it proper, in order
to avoid any misapprehension as to the views of the department, to
state that this order is made without prejudice to any existing
adverse rights, whether individual or corporate, if such there be,
and does not include any lands ' heretofore reserved to the United
States by any act of Congress or in any other manner by competent authority for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal
improvement, or for any other purpose whatsoever.'
"In case of such reservation there is granted to the company
only a right of way for one hundred feet on each side of its line of
road, subject to the approval of the President of the United
States.
"The right of the company to construct its road within the limits
of the State of Nebraska may hereafter be the subject of controversy; in that event, nothing contained in this order will preclude
the consideration of the question as to such right should it arise in
a form to require the action of the department.
"Very respectfully, your ob't servant,
" J.A Cox, Secretary."
On the 8th of the following month the Commissioner
forwarded to the land-officers at Beatrice, Nebraska, a map
showing the line of such location and of the ten andtwenty
mile limits of the grant. He instructed these officers to withdraw from sale, location, pre-emption, or homestead entry
all the odd-numbered sections falling within those limits. His
letter was received on the 15th of that month, and the
lands supposed to be covered by the grant were then withdrawn. The company built sections of the road from time to
time, each in due time completed, and the requisite certificate
filed with the Secretary of the Interior. It made a junction
with the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad at Hastings,
Nebraska, July 15, 1872; but never at any point on the Union
Pacific, unless the said Burlington road is a branch thereof.
It was constructed substantially on the line delineated on the
map, and ran through Thayer and Nuckolls Counties, which
are within the district of lands subject to sale at Beatrice.
But, at a point about one mile east of the lands in controversy
in this suit and about seventy-five miles east of Hastings, it
departed from that line; at a point opposite those lands it was
built from forty to sixty rods from that line, and from that

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

[Sup. Ct.

point to Hastings it deflected from the line from one to three
miles. The lands in dispute are within ten miles of the road
as built and of the line delineated on the map. The company,
April 1, 1873, filed its articles of incorporation in the office of
the Secretary of State of Nebraska, but did not otherwise
attempt to comply with the laws of that State in respect of
-foreign railroad corporations extending their roads into that
State. The lands in controversy were entered at the Beatrice
land-office, April, 13, 1870, by Van Wyck, who received a
patent for them, bearing date Nov. 15, 1871.
Knevals, who bad acquired from the company all its right to
those lands, filed his bill against Van Wyck in the court below,
where a decree was rendered declaring that the company, by
the construction of its road and the notice given to the Secretary of the Interior, was entitled to a patent to the lands in
controversy; that Van Wyck received the patent therefor and
the title which it conveyed, in trust for the company and not
otherwise, and that at the commencement of the suit he held
them in trust for the complainant, to whom it was further
decreed that he convey them.
Van Wyck thereupon appealed.
Mr. -. -E. Brown for the appellant.
Mr. James M. Woolworth for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FiELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question for determination in this case is,
When does the grant made to Kansas by the act of Congress
of July 23, 1866, c. 212, for the use and benefit of the St.
Joseph and Denver Railroad Company in the construction of a
railroad from Elwood in that State, to its junction with the
Union Pacific Railroad, or a branch thereof, take effect so as
to cut off the right of pre-emption from subsequent settlers on
the land ? The grant is similar in its main features to numerous other grants of land made by Congress in aid of railroads,
and contains the same limitations, or, rather, exceptions to it.
It differs from some of the grants in that it is made to the
State, and not directly to the company to be benefited. The
act of Congress, however, provides, notwithstanding the designation of the State as grantee, that patents for the land shall

Oct. 1882.]

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

be issued directly to the company upon the completion of every
ten consecutive miles of the road. The grant is of ten alternate sections, designated by odd numbers, on each side of the
proposed road, subject to the condition that if it appear, when
the route of the road is " definitely fixed," that the United
States have sold any section or a part thereof, or the right of
pre-emption or homestead settlement has attached, or the same
has been reserved by the United States for any purpose, the
Secretary of the Interior shall cause an equal quantity of other
lands to be selected from odd sections nearest those designated
in lieu of the lands appropriated, which shall be held by the
State for the same purpose. The grant is one in prmsenti, except as its operation is affected by that condition; that is, it
imports the transfer, subject to the limitations mentioned, of a
present interest in the lands designated. The difficulty in
immediately giving full operation to it arises from the fact
that the sections designated as granted are incapable of identification until the route of the road is "definitely fixed." When
that route is thus established the grant takes effect upon the
sections by relation as of the date of the act of Congress. In
that sense we say that the grant is one in prcesenti. It cuts
off all claims, other than those mentioned, to any portion of the
lands from the date of the act, and passes the title as fully as
though the sections had then been capable of identification.
Nor is this operation of the grant affected by the fact that
patents of the United States are subsequently, upon the certificate of the governor, to be issued by the Secretary of the Interior directly to the company and not to the State. This is
only a mode of divesting the State of her trust character and
of passing the legal title held by her to the party for whose
benefit the grant was made. The legal title under the grant
goes to the State, but the equitable right vests in the company.
The State cannot dispose of the lands; she simply holds them
for the use and benefit of the company, the act of Congress
providing how her trust shall be discharged and the legal title
be conveyed to the company. The act says that the land
granted "shall inure to the benefit of the said company as follows," and then proceeds to declare that when the governor of
the State shall certify that a section of the road of ten consecu-

VAN WYCK v. KNEVALS.

[Sup. Ot.

tive miles is completed "in a good, substantial, and permanent
manner as a first-class railroad," the Secretary of the Interior
shall issue to the company patents for the sections of land
granted vhich lie opposite to and coterminous with the completed road, and that similar patents shall issue upon a like
certificate upon the completion of every successive section of
ten miles. it matters not, so far as subsequent settlers are concerned, in what manner the title, which has passed out of the
United States, is transferred to the company from the State.
When the route of the road is "definitely fixed," no parties can
subsequently acquire a pre-emption right to any portion of the
lands covered by the grant. The right of the State and of the
company is thenceforth perfect as against subsequent claimants
under the United States.
The inquiry then arises, When is the route of the road to be
considered as "definitely fixed" so that the grant attaches to
the adjoining sections ? The complainant in the court below,
who derives his title from the company, contends that the
route is definitely fixed, within the meaning of the act of Congress, when the company files with the Secretary of the Interior a map of its lines, approved by its directors, designating
the route of the proposed road. On the other hand, the defendant, - the appellant here, - who acquired his interest by a subsequent entry of the lands and a patent therefor, contends that
the route cannot be deemed definitely fixed, so that the grant
attaches to any particular sections and cuts off the right of
entry thereof until the lands are withdrawn from market by
order of the Secretary of the Interior, and notice of the order
of withdrawal is communicated to the local land-officers in the
districts in which the lands are situated.
We are of opinion that the position of the complainant is
the correct one. The route must be considered as "definitely
fixed" when it has ceased to be the subject of change at the
volition of the company. Until the map is filed with the Secretary of the Interior the company is at liberty to adopt such
a route as it may deem best, after an examination of the
ground has disclosed the feasibility, and advantages of different
lines. But when a route is adopted by the company and a
map designating it is filed with the Secretary of the Interior

Ot. 1882.]

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

and accepted by that officer, the route is established; it is, in
the language of the act, "definitely fixed," and cannot be the
subject of future change, so as to affect the grant, except upon
legislative consent. No further action is required of the company to establish the route. It then becomes the duty of the
Secretary to withdraw the lands granted from market. But if
he should neglect this duty, the neglect would not impair the
rights of the company, however prejudicial it might prove to
others. Its rights are not made dependent upon the issue of
the Secretary's order, or upon notice of the withdrawal being
given to the local land-officers. Congress, which possesses the
absolute power of alienation of the public lands, has prescribed
the period at which other parties than the grantee named shall
have the privilege of acquiring a right to portions of the lands
specified, and neither the Secretary nor any other officer of the
Land Department can extend the period by requiring something
to be done subsequently, and until done, continuing the right
of parties to settle on the lands as previously. Otherwise, it
would be in their power, by vexatious or dilatory proceedings,
to defeat the act of Congress, or at least seriously impair its
benefit. .Parties learning of the route established - ahd they
would not fail to know it - might, between the filing of the
map and the notice to the local land-officers, take up the most
valuable portions of the lands. Nearness to the proposed road
would add to the value of the sections and lead to a general
settlement upon them.
This view of the law disposes of tie claim of the defendant.
A map designating the route of the proposed road, made by the
engineers of the company after careful surveys, and adopted by
its directors, was filed on the 25th of March, 1870, with the
Secretary of the Interior, who accepted it, and on the 26th of
that month transmitted it to the .Commissioner of the General
Land-Office, with directions to instruct the proper local officers
to withhold from sale, or other disposition, the odd-numbered
sections within the limits of twenty miles on each side of the
route. On the 8th of April following, the Commissioner forwarded a copy of the map to the register and receiver of the
land-office at Beatrice, in Nebraska, but it was not received
by them until the 15th of that month. On the 13th the

VAN WYCK v. KNEVALS.

[Sup. CL.

defendant entered at that office the land in question, at private
entry, and paid the government price therefor. In November
of the following year a patent for it was issued to him. His
entry, as thus seen, was after the map had been filed and the
route "definitely fixed," and the grant had attached to the
adjoining odd sections. It could, therefore, initiate no rights
to the land, and the subsequent patent issued upon that entry
conferred no valid title to the defendant as against the company or parties claiming under it.
The defendant having failed to establish the validity of his
own title, attacks the right of the company to the lands covered by the grant, alleging that the company never completed
the construction of the entire road for which the grant was
made; that after filing its map with the Secretary of the Interior it changed, for part of the distance, the route of the road,
and that it never complied with the conditions of the laws of
Nebraska for the extension of its road within the limits of that
State.
We do not deem these objections, when considered with the
facts on which they are based, as having any force. There is
to them a ready and conclusive answer. Assuming that the
Burlington and Missouri River Railroad, with which the company's road connected, was not, as averred by the complainant,
a branch of the Union Pacific Railroad, and that, therefore,
the company's proposed road was not entirely completed, the
fact remains that the company constructed a portion of the
proposed road, and that portion was accepted as completed in
the manner required by the act of Congress. Patents for some
of the adjoining sections were accordingly issued to the company, and a right to all of them, not specially reserved by the
condition of the grant, vested in it. So far as that portion of the
road which was completed and accepted is concerned, the contract of the company was executed, and as to the lands patented,
the transaction on the part of the government was closed and
the title of the company perfected. The right of the company
to the remaining odd-numbered sections adjoining the road completed and accepted, not reserved, is equally clear. If the whole
of the proposed road has not been completed, any forfeiture
consequent thereon can be asserted only by the grantor, the

Oct. 1882.]

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

United States, through judicial proceedings, or through the
action of Congress. Schulenberg v. Harriman, 21 Wall. 44.
A third party cannot take upon himself to enforce conditions
attached to the grant when the government does not complain
of their breach. The holder of an invalid title does not
strengthen his position by showing how badly the government
has been treated with respect to the property.
As to the alleged deviation of the road constructed from the
route laid down in the map, admitting such to be the fact, the
defendant is in no position to complain of it; the lands in
controversy are within the required limit, whether that be
measured from one line or the other. A deviation of the route
without the consent of Congress, so as to take the road beyond
the lands granted, might, perhaps, raise the question whether
the grant was not abandoned; but no such question is here presented. The deviation within the limits of the granted lands
in no way infringed upon any rights of the defendant.
As to the want of compliance with the conditions imposed by
the laws of Nebraska, allowing railroad companies organized in
other States to extend and build their roads within its limits, it
is sufficient to say that when the grant was made to the company Nebraska was a Territory, and it was entirely competent
for Congress to confer upon a corporation of any State the
right to construct a road within any of the Territories of the
United States. The grant of land and a right of way for
the construction of a road to a designated point within the
Territory was sufficient authority for the company to construct
the road to that point. It may be well doubted whether the
State subsequently created out of the Territory could put any
impediment upon the enjoyment of the right thus conferred.
As we said in Railroad Company v. Baldwin, "it could do so
only on the same terms that it could refuse a recognition of its
own previously granted right, for in such matters the State
would succeed only to the authority of Congress over the Territory." 103 U. S. 426, 428. It does not appear from anything
before us that the State has ever attempted to interfere with
the road or the company for its delay in filing its articles of
incorporation with the Secretary of State, or in complying with
other provisions of law. And it hardly need be added that
VOL XVI.

24

VAN WYCK V. KNEVALS.

[Sup. Ct.

any such interference would not operate to divest the company
of its title to lands granted by the United States.
It follows from what we have said, that when the defendant
made his entry of the lands in controversy, and obtained a
patent therefor, the title had passed from the United States,
and consequently no right could be conferred upon him. Still,
the patent gave color of title, and because of its issue the officers of the Land Department have refused to give a patent to
the company embracing the lands, holding, as may be inferred,
the view for which the defendant contends,-that his right to
enter them continued until notice of the order of the Secretary directing their withdrawal from market was received by
the local land-officers. The existence of the patent, therefore,
embarrasses the assertion of the complainant's rights; that is,
it prevents him from obtaining a strictly legal title which
would enable him to recover possession of the premises by an
action at law. The existence of the patent also creates a cloud
upon the title of the land. Every instrument purporting by
its terms to convey land from the original source of title, however invalid, creates a cloud upon the title, if it require extrinsic evidence to show its invalidity. Pixleyl v. Huggins, 15
Cal. 128.
The existence of the patent, therefore, under these circumstances, furnishes ground for equitable relief. That relief,
however, should properly be limited to a decree declaring the
equity of the complainant, the invalidity of the title of the defendant, and enjoining him from the assertion of any claim to
the property under the patent; but inasmuch as no objection
is taken to the form of the decree as entered, which requires
the defendant to execute a conveyance of the premises to
the complainant, and as the execution of such a conveyance,
amounting in fact to a xelease of his claim to the property,
will accomplish all that could be legally effected, it is not
considered necessary to order a modification of it. The decree
Affirmed.
is accordingly

