[Sup. Ct.

PRAY V. UNITED STATES.

PRAY v. UNITED STATES.
A. was appointed occasional weigher and measurer, at a fixed compensation per
annum when employed. He rendered accounts for his services each month,
Sundays being deducted; was paid on that basis, and gave his receipts therefor. He subsequently brought suit to recover pay for the Sundays excepted
from those accounts. Held, that he is not entitled to recover.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. Thomas H. Talbot for the appellant.

Hr.Assistant Attorney- General Maury for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

According to the finding of facts in this case, the claimant
received, on the first day of March, 1867, a written instrument
appointing him occasionalweigher and measurer, with a compensation fixed at $2,000 per annum when employed. He held
the place and performed the duties of occasional weigher and
measurer at Portland, Maine, under that appointment until
Nov. 30, 1877.
A further finding is this: For each month during the period of said service the claimant was paid his compensation upon bills made out in the following form : TNiTED STATEs -Dr. to F.-E. PRA.Y, Occasional -Weigher

"TmLE

of the Customs for the Portof Portland.
"For my services as occasional weigher of the customs fiom
, inclusive, Sundays excepted, one month, at two thousand
to
dollars per annum."
Each bill so made out was for the sum due for the month
named in it, after deducting the Sundays, and to each was
subjoined a receipt, signed by the claimant, in the following
form:

-

"Received payment for the above services, $
collector of customs for the Port of Portland."

,

of

Oct. 1882.]

PRAY V. UNITED STATES.

The present suit is brought to recover compensation for the
Sundays excepted out of these monthly payments during the
entire period of service.
This demand is founded on the law which gives to the
-weighers and measurers, holding office as such by the usual
appointment, a salary of 82,000 per annum, in which, of course,
Sundays are disregarded.
Counsel for the government contends that his letter of appointment, naming him as "occasional weigher and measurer,"
to be paid at the rate of $2,000 per annum "when employed,"
justified payment at that rate only for the days when he was
in actual service.
Whatever might have been said in opposition to this view,
if claimant had asserted it during the early time of his service,
it is clear that, by the form of the bill for services for each
month, he expressed his own understanding of the contract to
be the same as that with the collector who employed and paid
him. He makes out in his own name, "for (his) my services
as occasional weigher," " for one month, Sundays excepted,"
his bill, with the sum fixed on that basis, and accepts and signs
a receipt for it, and this he does every month for ten years.
He cannot be permitted now to say, after he is out of that
employment, that his contract was for $2,000 a year as an
absolute salary.
If this was the case of a person employed by a bank, a railroad company, or in any large business requiring many persons
for its service, the case would admit of no argument.
We think it equally plain in the present case. United States
v. Adams, 7 Wall. 463; United States v. Child, 12 id. 232;
United States v. Justice, 14 id. 535; Mason v. United States,
17 id. 67.
Judgment affirmed.

