Oct. 1882.]

WEETH V. NEW ENGLAND MORTGAGE' CO.

605

we are of opinion that the repeal has not been satisfactorily
shown. On the contrary, we think it reasonably clear that no
repeal of the fcrmer act was intended by the passage of the act
of 1870.
As these views coincide with those of the presiding judge of
the Circuit Court, upon which the judgment was based, it folo
lows that it must be affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

WEETH )v. NEW ENGLAND MORTGAGE COMP.ANY.
Where the judges below are opposed in opinion, this court will not take jurisdiction of the case, if their certificate, instead of being confined to single points
of law, presents either questions of fact or the whole case for adjudication.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Joh il. Thurston for the appellants.
Mr. J. D. Campbell for the appellee.
MR. C EF JUSTICE WArl:E delivered the opinion of

the

court.
This case comes here by appeal on a certificate of division
after a decree in accordance with the opinion of the presiding
judge, as required by sect. 650 of the Revised Statutes. The
value of the matter in dispute is less than $5,000, and we have
consequently no jurisdiction, unless the questions certified are
such as we can consider.
The controversy is as to whether certain notes sued on are
usurious. In the progress of the cause a reference was made
to one of the masters of the court "to report on the law and
the facts as shown by the pleadings and the proofs herein."
The master reported, stating the facts he found and his conclusions of law thereon. To this report exceptions were filed by
both parties, on the ground, among others, that the facts found

606

WEETH V. NEW ENGLAND MORTGAGE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and stated were not sustained by the evidence. Upon the
hearing of the cause by the court the judges were divided in
opinion on the following questions: 1. Whether the notes sued on were usurious.
2. Whether the master's report should in all things be
affirmed.
These are the questions certified to us.
The rule is well settled that, to give us jurisdiction on a certificate of division of opinion, the questions certified must be
of law and not of fact. Wilson v. Barnum, 8 How. 258;
-Dennistoun v. Stewart, 18 How. 565; Silliman v. Hudson
River Bridge Co., 1 Black, 582; -Danielsv. Rlailroqd Company,
3 Wall. 250; Brobst v. Brobst, 4 id. 2. We cannot in this way
be called on to consider the weight or effect of evidence. It is
equally well settled that we cannot take jurisdiction where the
whole case is certified up for adjudication instead of single
points. United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 267; Nesmith v.
Sheldon, 6 How. 41.
The certificate in this case is manifestly subject to both
these objections. The counsel for the appellants opens his
argument with the candid statement that "the first question
submitted depends on the solution and determination of the
second, to wit: whether the master's report should in all things
be sustained?" that is to say, whether the evidence supports
the findings, and if it does, whether the master was right in
his conclusions of law. This certainly presents the whole case
for adjudication, and involves a finding of the facts by this
court,
Appeal dismissed for want ofjurisdiction,

