Oct. 1882.]

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO. v. WATERMAN.

265

FARmERS' LOAN AND TRUST CoMPANY v. WATERMAN.
1. A party to a suit cannot appeal from a decree therein rendered, if he is not
thereby affected.
2. Where parties severally assert in the same suit a separate cause of action, the
decrees which are rendered in favor of them respectively cannot be joined
to render the amount involved sufficient to give this court jurisdiction. Ex
paae Baltimore 6- Ohio Rail,'oad Company, ante, p. 5, cited and approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
Motion by the appellees to dismiss as to part of them, and to
affirm as to the rest.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

1r. John J. Butler in support of the motion.
Mr. J. D. Campbell in opposition thereto.
MR. OR=
JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These motions present the following facts :On the 24th of July, 1877, in a suit pending in the court
below for the foreclosure of certain mortgages on the property
of the Indianapolis, Bloomington, and Western Railway Company, a decree was entered directing a sale of the mortgaged
property and an application of the proceeds to the payment,
among others, of "all such . . . claims and sums of money as
shall be hereinafter allowed by this court . . . in preference to
the liens of the hereinbefore mentioned mortgages or deeds of
trust for debts due by said railway company for work, labor,
supplies, and material done and furnished during the six
months next preceding the first day of December, 1874, . . .
which payment for debts due as last aforesaid for six months
prior to December 1st, 1874, shall be made into court without
prejudice to the right of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company
to object to the same, and to appeal from any order or orders
which may be hereafter made by the court directing the money
so paid to be distributed to the various claimants thereof."
At the time this decree was made, the amount of the debts
for labor and supplies was not known. That matter lhaO been

266

FARMaS' LOAN AND TRUST Co. v. WATERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

referred, on the 46h of June before, to certain special masters
to take testimony and report, but their report was not filed.
To meet this condition of the case, the decree further provided
that on the delivery of the deed the purchaser should pay into
court enough of the purchase-money to satisfy any amount that
might in the further progress of the cause be found to be
owing. It was also specially provided that the reference to
the master, which had been made and which was approved and
continued, should " in nowise abridge or impair the right of
any of the parties hereto to prosecute an appeal from any order
or orders of the court allowing or disallowing said claims, or
any part thereof, and declaring the same to be prior and superior to said mortgage."
The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company was the trustee of
the mortgages having the paramount mortgage liens on the
property.
On the 16th of November, 1877, the special masters filed
their report as to the labor and supply claims, allowing eleven
hundred and sixty-three separate claims, which had been presented to 'them by petition in accordance with the provisions
of the order of reference, and which, in their opinion, had been
established by the evidence. Of these claims only fourteen
were for sums exceeding $5,000. All the rest, being eleven
hundred and forty-nine in number, were in every instance for
less than that amount. On the coming in of the report,
numerous exceptions were filed by the Trust Company. These
exceptions remaining undisposed of, and no sale having been
made under the decree, "on motion of the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company" it was, on the 8th of May, 1878, "by way of
further directions for the execution of the decree . . .of date
July 24, 1877, . . . considered by the court, and ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said original decree be, and the
same is hereby, amended and modified as follows: . . .
"13th. That the sale be made . . . subject to . .. such
. . . claims and sums of money as are now under consideration
by and as shall be hereafter allowed by this court, . . . and
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States on appeal,
should an appeal be taken, in preference to liens ot the hereinbefore mentioned mortgages or deeds of trust for debts due by

Oct. 1882.]

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST 00. V. WATERMIAN.

267

said railroad company for work and labor done and supplies
and material furnished, . . . without prejudice to the right of
the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company to object to the same,
and to appeal from any order or orders which may be hereafter
made by the court in relation thereto; . . . and such back
pay, labor, and supply claims as shall be finally adjudged
against the property herein directed to be sold, after an appeal
so taken, shall be assumed by the purchaser or purchasers, in
addition to the amount of the purchase-money so bid ...
And the payment of the amount of any claims so allowed
.. . shall not be required to be made at or prior to the time of
the delivery of the deed, but the said.sale shall be made subject
to, and the purchaser or purchasers of said property shall agree
to pay off so much of the said claims or sums of money as shall
be finally allowed in the progress of this cause, on or after such
appeal, and the same shall be paid and discharged by said purchaser or purchasers within six months after the entry of an
order of this court, upon a mandate of the Supreme Court concerning matters so appealed from being filed in this court, and
the said deed shall be delivered without payment of said claims
or sums of money, or any part thereof, upon the purchaser so
conditionally agreeing to pay so much and no more of such
claims and sums of money as may finally be allowed on such
appeal, and it shall be competent for the court to enforce hereafter, by proper order or decree herein, or to be added to the
foot of this decree, any of the provisions or conditions of this
thirteenth article of this decree."
On the 30th of October, 1878, the mortgaged property was
sold under the decree of July 24, as thus modified, to Austin
Corbin, Giles E. Taintor, and Josiah B. Blossom, "purchasing
committee, in trust for certain bondholders under the trusts
expressed in certain agreements, dated December 20th, 1875,
and a supplement thereto, dated July 25, 1878," copies of which
were attached to the report of the sale. These agreements had
reference to a plan adopted by certain of the stockholders,
bondholders, and general creditors, for the purchase of the
property, and defining their respective interests therein, if the
purchase should be made.
The sale was confirmed by the court on the 31st of March,

268

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST 00. V. WATERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

1879, upon the application of the purchasers, and the master
was directed to make and deliver to them a deed of the
property, subject, among other things, "to . . . such...
claims and sums of money as are now under consideration by
and as shall be hereafter allowed by the said court, . . . in
preference to the liens of the hereinbefore mentioned mortgages or deeds of trust, for debts due by said railroad company
for work and labor done and supplies and material furnished
during a period not exceeding the six months next preceding
the first day of December, 1874, . . . but nothing herein contained shall be taken to prejudice the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, or the said Austin Corbin, Giles E. Taintor, and
Josiah B. Blossom, their successor or successors and assigns, or
any of them, to object to the same, or to appeal from any order
or orders which may be hereafter made by the said court, or
either of them, in relation thereto to the Supreme Court of the
United States, which said . . . back pay, labor, and supply
claims . . . finally adjudged against said property hereby conveyed, are hereby expressly assumed by the said Austin Corbin,
Giles E. Taintor, and Josiah B. Blossom, purchasing committee, their successor and successors or assigns, as and for a
charge and lien upon the property hereby conveyed, . . . prior
and superior to any interest or estate hereby vested in them or
"
any of them ....
After this deed was delivered, a further reference was made
to take testimony and report as to certain special matters connected with the claims before reported on. Upon the coming
in of the report under this last reference, exceptions were filed
by the Trust Company and the purchasers, and on the 31st of
October, 1881, the court, after a hearing, decreed "that said
Austin Corbin, Giles E. Taintor, and Josiah B. Blossom do,
within sixty days, excluding Sundays, from and after the date
of the decree, pay to said several intervening petitioners and
claimants the several amounts set opposite their respective
names, that is to say, to Charles F. Webb two hundred and
seventy dollars." Then followed the names of all the other
separate claimants, with the amount due them respectively set
opposite.
From this decree of the 31st of October the Trust Company

Oct. 1882.]

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO. V. WATERMAN.

269

and Corbin, Taintor, and Blossom took the present appeal,
which the appellees having claims less than $5,000 move
to dismiss as to them for want of jurisdiction. Those whose
claims exceed $5,000 have filed motions to affirm as to them,
on the ground that it is manifest the appeal was taken for
delay.
* To our minds it is clear the Trust Company has no interest
in the questions arising under this appeal. That company represented the bondholders for all the purposes of the foreclosure
of the mortgages under which it was trustee, but the interest
of the bondholders in the suit ended when the property was
sold and the proceeds were distributed. As the purchasers took
the property subject to the lien, if any there was, of the backpay claims, the bondholders, as bondholders, cannot in any manner be affected by the result of the proceedings to determine
whether such lien exists, and if so, to what extent. All questions as to such matters are between the purchasers and inter-.
vening petitioners alone. The decree ordering a sale subject
to the claims was entered on the motion of the Trust Company,
and the appeal is in express terms confined to the order establishing the claims against the purchasers. If, by reason of the
agreement under which the purchase was made by the purchasing commitee, any of the bondholders secured by the mortgages
to the Trust Company are entitled to share in the property,
they are for all such purposes represented by the purchasing
committee, and not by the mortgage trustee. The trust created by the mortgage was fully executed when the foreclosure
was complete. After that the purchasing bondholders became
purchasers of the mortgaged property, and their rights are to
be determined accordingly.
Neither is it of any importance that in the decree of sale as
modified, as well as in that originally entered, a right of appeal
by the Trust Company was expressly reserved. Only parties
to a decree can appeal. If a party to the suit is in no manner
affected by what is decreed, he cannot be said to be a party to
the decree. A reservation of the right to appeal has no effect
if there is no decree from which an appeal such as has been
reserved will lie. In the present case, as has already been
seen, the several claimants or intervenors and the purchasing

270

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO. v. WATERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

committee were the only parties to the suit affected by the
decree of October 31. The purchasing committee became parties by their purchase to the extent that was necessary to protect their rights in the property purchased against any further
orders to be made in the execution of the decree under which
they bought. The Trust Company, by consenting to the
decree ordering a sale subject to the back-pay and supply liens,
in effect voluntarily abandoned that part of the litigation, and
left it to be carried on thereafter between the several claimants and the purchasers alone. Neither the Trust Company
nor those it in equity represents can gain or lose by either a
reversal or affirmance of the decree appealed from.
Our jurisdiction, therefore, depends on the case as it stands
between the purchasing committee and the several back-pay
claimants. As we have shown in Ex parte Baltimore & Odo
Railroad Company, ante, p. 5, if distinct causes of action in
favor of distinct parties, though growing out of the same transaction, are joined in one suit, and distinct decrees are rendered
in favor of the several parties, these decrees cannot be joined
to give us jurisdiction; but if the controversy is about a matter
in which several parties are interested collectively under a
common title, and in the decree, after establishing the common
right, a division is made among the claimants according to
their respective interests, this separation of the decree into
parts will not prevent an appeal.
We are satisfied the present case comes under the first
. division of this rule. There is a question involved common to
all the intervenors; that is to say, whether back-pay and supply
claims of any kind are to be paid by the purchasers; but if
that is settled in favor of the claimants it will still have to be
determined whether each one of the separate claimants has a
claim of that kind. In determining this question each claim
will depend on its own facts. A recovery by one claimant will
not necessarily involve a recovery by another. While the
rights of all depend on establishing a liability of the purchasers
for the payment of debts of a particular kind, no one can recover unless he shows that there is owing to him individually a
debt of that kind. There are, therefore, necessarily in the case
as many separate and distinct controversies as there are separate

Oct. 1882.]

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO. v. WATERMAN.

271

claimants and intervenors. The purchasers have the right to
contest each claim separately. They stand in the same relation
to the several claimants that the ship-owner did in Oliver v.
Alexazder, 6 Pet. 143, to the seamen, or the alleged fraudulent
grantee in Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208, to the judgment
creditors. The several intervenors do not, as in T7te Gonnemara, 103 U. S. 754, claim under one and the same title, and it
is material to the purchasers how much is allowed to each and
every one, for the amount of the recovery is not determined by
any fixed sum, but by the aggregate of all the separate sums
allowed the several claimants individually. The amount of
the recovery by one is not affected in any manner by what is
allowed to another. Clearly, therefore, distinct causes of action
in favor of distinct parties have been joined in the same suit,
and distinct decrees rendered in favor of the distinct parties.
This is not only the form of the decree, but the substance.
There is no question here of a fund for distribution. The
purchasing committee bought the road subject to the liens of
the various back-pay and supply claimants, if any such liens
existed. The claimants are seeking to establish and enforce
their respective liens. They, in effect, join in one suit for
that purpose, but both their claims and decrees are separate
and distinct.
It follows that the motion to dismiss must be granted, and it
is so ordered.
The questions involved in the appeals from the decrees for
more than $5,000 are not such as we are willing to consider on a motion to affirm. The motion for an affirmance is,
therefore,
Overruled.

