Oct. 1892.]

8IRK v. LYND.'

KIRK v. LYND.
Where, pursuant to the act of Aug. 6, 1861, c. 60, entitled "An Act to confiscate
property used for insurrectionary purposes," lands were seized and condemned,
the purchaser of them under the decree took an estate in fee.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
Pasteur, the owner in fee of lands in New Orleans, remained
in the possession of them until Nov. 17, 1863. A libel of information under the act of Aug. 6, 1861, c. 60, was then filed
against them in the proper District Court of the United States.
A decree for their condemnation and forfeiture was rendered
Dec. 5, 1863, by virtue whereof they were sold, Jan. 13, 1866.
Under the purchaser, the defendants, Lynd and Lewis, derive
their title.
Pasteur died May 3, 1874. His widow and children then
brought this suit for the lands, and for the fruits and revenues
derived therefrom since his death.
The defendants demurred to the bill, setting up as the principal ground therefor that by the proceedings in the District
Court, including the seizure, libel, decree of condemnation, and
the sale thereunder, the fee, and not simply the life-estate of
Pasteur, in the forfeited lands passed to the purchaser, and that
therefore the complainants were entitled to no relief. The
demurrers were sustained and the bill dismissed. The complainants thereupon appealed.
Mr. 1B. Stewart Dennee for the appellants.
Mr. John A. Campbell and Mr. Thomas L. Bayne for the
appellees.
MR. Cn'EF JUsTI E WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The single question in this case is, whether the purchaser of
real property condemned under the act of Aug. 6, 1861, c. 60,
entitled "An Act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes," takes a fee, or only an estate for life. The act
provides that if during an insurrection against the government
of the United States, after the President has declared by proc-

KIRK v. LYND.

[Sup. Ot.

lamation that the laws of the United States are opposed, and
the execution thereof obstructed by combinations too powerful
to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings,
or by the power vested in the marshals by Jaw, any person
shall purchase or acquire, sell or give, any property with intent
to use or employ the same, or suffer the same to be used or
employed, in aiding, abetting, or promoting such insurrection
or resistance to the laws, or any person engaged therein; or if
any person, being the owner of any such property, shall knowingly use or employ, or consent to the use or employment of
the same, as aforesaid, all such property shall be lawful subject
of capture and prize wherever found, and the President may
cause the same to be seized, confiscated, and condemned. Provision is then made for judicial proceedings of condemnation
in the courts of the United States. The seizure and condemnation in the present case were because the property had been
used and employed, with the knowledge and consent of the
owner, in aid of the insurrection.
Express authority is vested in Congress by the Constitution
to " make rules concerning captures on land and water."
Art. 1, sect. 8. The statute now in question is manifestly an
exercise of that power. As was said by Mr. Justice Strong, in
Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268, 308: "It imposed no
penalty. It declared nothing unlawful. It was aimed exclusively at the seizure and confiscation of property used to
aid, abet, or promote the rebellion, then a war, or to maintain
the war against the government. It treated the property as
the guilty subject." All private property used, or intended to
be used, in aid of an insurrection, with the knowledge or consent of the owner, is made the lawful subject of capture and
judicial condemnation; and this, not to punish the owner for
any crime, but to weaken the insurrection. The offence for
which the condemnation may be decreed is one that inheres in
the property itself, and grows out of the fact that the property
has become, or is intended to become, with the approval of its
owner, an instrument for the promotion of the ends of the insurrection. To justify a judicial sentence of condemnation, the
consent of the owner to the hostile use of his property must
be proven; but if it be proven, condemnation is decreed, not

Oct. 1882.]

KIRK v. LYND.

because the owner has subjected himself to punishment, but
because the property has been devoted to the insurrection and
must suffer the consequences. The property is the offending
thing, and condemnation is decreed because its owner has voluntarily allowed it to become involved in the offence.
In war the capture of property in the hands of the enemy,
used, or intended to be used, for hostile purposes, is allowed by
all civilized nations, and this whether the ownership be public
or private. The title to movable property in hostile use, captured on land, passes to the captor as soon as the capture is
complete; that is to say, as soon as the property is reduced to
firm possession. The absolute title to immovable public property owned by the enemy does not pass until the war is ended
and peace restored. Then, unless provision is made to the
contrary by the treaty of peace or otherwise, the ownership is
changed if the conquest is complete. In regulating the capture
of private property devoted to the use of an insurrection against
the authority of the United States, Congress has provided for
a judicial inquiry into the facts and a sentence of condemnation before title can pass out of the owner. When the inquiry
is bad, and the necessary sentence pronounced by the appropriate judicial tribunal, the title passes by reason of the capture
or conquest, the lawfulness of which has been established in
an adversary proceeding against the property seized under the
direction of the President, and subjected to the jurisdiction of
the court designated by law for that purpose. The title acquired by the purchaser in this case was of that kind. The property bought had been seized under the authority of the statute
as property used in aid of an insurrection against the United
States with the consent of its owner. The fact of hostile use
with the owner's consent was established, and the requisite
sentence of judicial condemnation entered. In this way the
title of the United States by capture was perfected. That
title, as against the owner and his heirs, was the fee. The
defendants below, who are the defendants in error here, have
succeeded to that title.
Property captured in war is not taken to punish its owner
any more than the life of a soldier slain in battle is taken to
punish him. The property as well as the life is taken only as

KIRK V. LYND.

[Sup. Ct.

a means of lessening the warlike strength of thb enemy. Young
v. United States, 97 U. S. 39.
There is here no question of pardon and amnesty as there
was in the case of Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766, where it
was held that the pardon of the owner before a sentence of
condemnation relieved him from the consequences of his assent
to the unlawful use of his property, so far as the United States
were concerned, and might to that extent be used as a bar
to further proceedings in the condemnation suit. But in that
case the pardon was set up as a defence against the condemnation. Here there is nothing of the kind. The court having
the property in possession, and proceeding against it, has decreed its condemnation. So long as this decree stands it affords
conclusive evidence of a perfected title in the United States
by a lawful capture, judicially ascertained and determined.
To these proceedings the ancestor of the heirs for whose benefit
this suit is prosecuted was in law a party, and both he and
they are bound by the adjudication. The judgment is one that
cannot be collaterally impeached.
It is true that in the case of Armstrong's Foundry, supra, it
was said by Mr. Chief Justice Chase, in the opinion, that "the
statute regarded the assent of the owner to the employment of
his property in aid of the rebellion as an offence, and inflicted
forfeiture as a penalty;" but this language must be construed
in connection with the facts then under consideration. There
the question was whether the pardon could be used as a bar to
the pending proceedings for condemnation, and the effect of
what was said was no more than to apply to that case the
principle afterwards announced by the same learned Chief
Justice in United States v. Padelford, 9 id. 531, 543, and declare that the law made the proof of pardon of the owner a
complete substitute for proof that he gave no consent to the
use of his property in aid of the rebellion. The guilty consent
of the owner to the unlawful use is necessary to make the propBrty a subject of lawful capture, and as the pardon was, under
the rule in Padelford's case, equivalent to proof that no such
consent was given, the lawfulness of the capture could not be
established, and, consequently, as against the United States,
-there must be a judgment of acquittal.

Oct. 1882.]

KIRK V.

LYND.

The act of July 17, 1862, c. 95, proceeds upon an entirely
different principle. That was, according to its title, "An Act
to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, and to
seize and confiscate the property of rebels." Its object was,
not to authorize the capture of property used to promote an
insurrection, but to confiscate the property of traitors. The
seizure was to be made, not because the property was in law
the offender, but because the owners were engaged in rebellion, and would not return to their allegiance to the United
States. The object evidently was, not to make the property a
lawful subject of capture and prize, as in the act of 1861, but
to punish the owner for countenancing the rebellion. This
distinction is recognized in all the cases where the matter has
received consideration. The justices who dissented from the
judgment in Miller v. United States, supra, while arguing that
the act of 1862 was unconstitutional, impliedly admitted the
validity of that of 1861, because it was directed against the
property as the offending thing. It was, also, because the act
of 1862 was in the nature of a punishment of the owner for his
treason, that the explanatory resolution, No. 63, 12 Stat. 627,
was passed to meet the objections which had been suggested
by the President. In this way the condemnation of real property under the act of 1862 was confined to the natural life of
the offending owner; but nothing was done with the act of
1861, because that had reference only to the capture and condemnation of property for its unlawful use.
It follows that the court below was right in holding that
the fee passed by the condemnation, and its judgment is conAffirmed.
sequently

