Oct. 1882.]

THE "NEW

ORLEANS."

to repeal sect. 5117 of the Revised Statutes, which enacts
that "no debt created by fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while acting
in any fiduciary character, shall be discharged by proceedings
in bankruptcy."
This disposes of the only question in the record of which this
court has jurisdiction, and decides that whatever may be due by
plaintiff in error to the succession as executor is not discharged
by the proceeding in bankruptcy, and he is left to account with
the court in that character as though no composition in bankruptcy had been made. Whether in that accounting he was
executor or not, and whether as such he had so dealt with the
item in question as to be relieved of liability as executor or to
be bound for it, are matters depending on the application of
the law of Louisiana to the facts of the case, and involve no
question under the bankrupt law.
Judgment affirmed.

TaE "1NEW ORLEANS."
1. The court, upon the facts found by the Circuit Court, affirms the decree
whereby the steamer "New Orleans" was condemned to pay the damages
occasioned by her collision with a schooner.
2. The evidence which in another suit a part owner of the schooner gave as to
the extent and cost of the repairs put upon her, is not in this suit admissible against the other part owners.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The owners of the "Allie Bickmore" filed, in their own
behalf and as carriers of her cargo, their libel in a cause of
collision, civil and maritime, against the "New Orleans." The
District Court adjudged the "New Orleans" to be wholly in
fault, and rendered a final decree accordingly for $15,682.37,

with interest thereon and costs. Both parties appealed to the
Circuit Court, which found the following facts 1. A little after five o'clock in the morning of the 6th of
September, 1874, a collision occurred between the schooner

THE "NEW

ORLEANS."

[Sup. Ct.

"Allie Bickmore," owned by the libellants, and the steamer
"New Orleans," in the Atlantic Ocean, about forty miles southeasterly from Cape Henlopen.
2. The schooner had a carrying capacity of over six hundred
tons, though she registered only three hundred and ninety or
thereabouts. She was less than a year old, and bound on a
voyage from Fernandina, Florida, to New York, with a full
load of pine lumber, stowed below and on deck.
8. The steamship was 245 feet long, and of 1,448 tons burden. She was on one of her regular trips -between New York
and New Orleans.
4. When the collision occurred it was broad daylight, and a
vessel without lights might have been seen at least two miles
away. The wind was very light from the southward and eastward, but a considerable swell was rolling from the southeast.
5. The course of the schooner was about NE. by N. She
had all sails set, but there was not wind enough to keep them
full, and she was not making more than a mile and a half or
two miles an hour. Her lights were properly set and burning,
and she was in all respects well equipped and manned.
6. The cou:se of the steamer was aboit S. by W. I W., and
her speed eleven miles, or a little more, an hour. This was
full speed. About twenty minutes before the collision her
lookout was withdrawn from his station on the forecastle and
set to work, with all the other men then on watch, washing
decks. The second officer, whose watch it was, was with his
men superintending their work. From the time the lookout
was withdrawn there was no one where he could in any respect
perform that duty except the man at the wheel, and he did not
discover the schooner until his attention was called to her by
the mate at the time and in the manner hereinafter stated.
7. When the vessels were two or three miles apart. the
steamer was discovered, and duly reported by the lookout on
the schooner. From that time she was closely watched. The
schooner was kept steadily on her course until the steamer was
not more than seven or eight hundred feet away, when, the
danger of collision being imminent, the second mate, who was
on deck, gave an order to luff, and at the same time called out

Oct. 1882.]

THE " NEW ORLEANS."

an alarm to the steamer; but before any material change in
her course had been made the vessels came together.
8. The schooner was not seen at all from the steamer until
the second mate, hearing the cry of alarm which came from
her, stepped from where he was standing on the main deck
to the starboard side, and saw her close upon him. He immediately ran up from the main deck into the wheel-house,
where he ordered the wheel to port, at the same time assisting
to port it over himself. The order to port aroused the captain,
who was in a room opening out of the wheel-house, and be,
without stopping to put anything on, opened his door, and,
seeing the schooner, rang the proper bells to slow and stop.
Before the course of the steamer was materially changed by
the porting of the wheel, or her headway was sensibly affected,
she struck the schooner on the port bow, between the stern
and the cathead, and cut into her about twenty feet on a line
but slightly angling across the keel. The wound extended
very nearly to the foremast, and to within four feet of the
keel.
9. In a short time the steamer took the schooner in tow and
carried her to the Delaware breakwater. From there she was
taken by a tug to Philadelphia, where she was unloaded, and
her cargo taken on to New York. She was also put in repair
and refitted at that port.
10. The account of damages as stated by the commissioner
in his report is sustained by the evidence, except the item of
$1,000 for damages to the starboard side. As to that the evidence shows that when the repairs were completed the vessel
was in as good general condition as she was before the collision,
and that if the bill of Bisely, Hillman, & Streaker is paid in full,
without the deduction of $600 for increase of value, full compensation will be made for any injury to the starboard side.
The court found as conclusion of law, 1. That the collision was caused solely by the fault of the
"New Orleans" in not keeping a sufficient lookout, and in not
seeing the schooner in time to keep out of her way.
2. That the libellants are entitled to recover for the amount
of the decree below with interest on $14,026.92 from the date
of that decree, at the rate of six per cent per annum.

16

THE "NEW

ORLEANS."

[Sup. Ct.

The court also held that as both parties had appealed and
the decree below was sustained, the costs of the Circuit Court
must be equally divided between them.
Upon the hearing before the commissioner, the claimants
offered in evidence the testimony of the owner of one-fourth
of the schooner in reference to the value and amount of the
repairs put upon her, which he gave in another suit. The
evidence was, on the objection of the libellants, excluded, and
an exception duly taken.
A decree was rendered in favor of the libellants, and the
claimants thereupon appealed.
Xr.John B. Parsons for the appellants.
Mr.Henry J. Scudder for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The findings of the Circuit Court, which are conclusive here,
show that the steamer was wholly in fault for its collision with
the schooner; and she was therefore justly condemned to pay
all the damages inflicted.
The only question open for our consideration arises upon the
exception to the exclusion by the commissioner of the testimony given in another suit by one of the part owners of the
schooner as to the extent and value of its repairs. The exclusion, we think, was correct. The statements of the part
owner, expressing his judgment as to the matters upon which
he was examined, could, at most, bind only himself. They
were not evidence against his co-owners, who were merely
tenants in common with him, not partners. Story on Partnership, sect. 453.
Decree affirmed.

