TYLER V. CAMPBELL.

[Sup. 0t.

manifest the intention of both parties to the agreement to be
that all the persons associated together under the name of S.
Seymour & Company, at the time of the signing of the agreement, should do the work and receive the compensation therein
stipulated.
It follows that the plaintiffs, upon proving to the satisfaction of a jury the facts above stated, which they offered to
,prove, would be entitled to maintain their action. The judgment for the defendant must therefore be reversed, and the
case remanded with directions to set aside the verdict and
order a
New trial.

TYLER v. CAmPBELL.
The court, in affirming the decree below, declines to deliver an extended opinion,
as the determination of the case depends upon matters of fact, and no doubtful or difficult question of law is involved.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.

Mr. Wheeler . Peckham and Mr. Cortlandt Parker for the
appellant.
lir. Charles B. Moore and Mr. Clifford A. Hand for the
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon a careful scrutiny of the evidence by each of the judges,
a majority of the court is of opinion that the proofs do not
make out the breach of trust alleged, and that the view of the
defendant's obligations, which the plaintiff has undertaken to
assert since the loss occurred, is inconsistent with the previous
conduct and mutual dealings of the parties.
As the decision involves no difficult or doubtful question of
law, but a pure question of fact, depending on the weighing
and comparison of varying and conflicting evidence, it can be
of no value as a precedent, and the preparation of an extended

111 1 ,

Oct. 1882.]

TYLER V. CAMPBELL.

opinion would not be according to the practice of the court,
and would serve no useful purpose.
Decree affirmed.
with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS, dissenting.
I am unable to assent to the decision of the majority of the
court, and, as it involves an important principle, I am unwilling
to let it pass in silence. I do not perceive any serious controversy as to the material facts upon which the liability of the
defendant is asserted, and in my judgment there is no doubt as
to the law applicable to them.
Divested of immaterial details, the case is briefly this: In
January, 1865, one James Monroe, of New Jersey, applied to
the complainant for a loan of money, -at first specified to
be $30,000, afterwards increased to $50,000, - for use in connection with the Morris County Bank, a corporation of that
State, of which Thomas E. Allen was president. The application was made through the defendant, Robert B. Campbell;
and the proposition was to give as security for the loan an assignment of two mortgages on a mine, known as the Hibernia
mine, in that State, then held by the bank, accompanied with a
lease of the property. As the result of the negotiation the complainant agreed to loan $50,000 to Monroe upon an assignment
to Campbell of the two mortgages and lease, in trust as security
for the loan. In pursuance of this agreement the bank assigned
the mortgages and lease to Monroe, who assigned them to
Campbell, with an irrevocable power of attorney to the latter
to collect the money due on the mortgages and pay the loan at
its maturity. Both assignments were executed Feb. 11, 1865,
and were to be void if the loan, with interest, was paid,- the
one to Monroe, if payment was made by the 11th of June following, and the one to Campbell, if payment was made by the
5th of August. The complainant thereupon gave to Campbell
securities, which on sale produced the $50,000, and this sum
was delivered to Monroe. Of the two mortgages one was for
$100,000 and the other for $75,000. Both were, at the time
of the assignment, in process of foreclosure in chancery in New
Jersey, and of this fact Campbell was fully aware. A decree
MR. JUSTIoE FIELD,

HARLAN

TYLER V. CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct.

for the sale of the premises was made in the foreclosure proceedings on the 1st of March following. On the 20th of June
the sale took place. Campbell was present and knew of it, and
-of the amount realized, which was $86,400. He did not, however, place the assignment on record in the office of the register
of the county, though it was acknowledged so as to be entitled
to registry; nor did he give any notice of it to the solicitor
engaged in the foreclosure proceedings, or to the master who
made the sale, but allowed all proceedings to be conducted,
and the parties connected therewith to act, as though no assignment had ever been made to him. Nor was he merely passive
in the matter. Though the assignment was executed expressly
to take from the mortgagee, the bank, and its assignee, Monroe,
the control of the mortgages, and secure an application of their
proceeds to the payment of the loan, he authorized the president of the bank to receive the proceeds. His letters show
this, and the only reason he assigns for it is that he supposed
the president would prefer to receive them. "I know," he
writes to that officer, "that you would prefer that it [the
money] should be received from the master by yourself, and,
therefore, I sent you the request to collect it and send it to
me." The president of the bank did collect it and keep it,
and subsequently became bankrupt. The complainant thereby
lost $30,000 of his loan; only $20,000 of the $50,000 were
ever received. To charge Campbell, by whose negligence
this money was lost, and compel him to pay it, this suit was
brought.
If proof of the facts thus stated depended upon uncertain
and conflicting testimony, I might accede to the disposition of
the case made by the majority of the court; but these facts are
either not controverted, or appear in the statements of the defendant himself. After the conversion of the money by the
president of the bank, a suit was brought against him by the
complainant, who, to obtain an order for his arrest, made an
affidavit setting forth the particulars of the loan, the assignment
of the mortgages, their foreclosure, the sale of the premises
mortgaged, and the receipt and use of the money by the president. In that affidavit he states - I quote his words - that
when the loan was made and the assignments were received he

Oct. 1882.]

TYLER V. OAMPBELL.

"instructed said Robert B. Campbell to take all necessary steps
to make said assignments available to secure said loan" to him,
the deponent; that Campbell, notwithstanding this instruction,
instead 6f requiring the master to pay the proceeds of the sale
into the court of chancery so that the loan might be paid out
of them, did, through confidence in the honesty of the president of the bank, permit the master to pay the proceeds to its
solicitor, who afterwards paid them over to the president directly, or upon his order. This affidavit is accompanied with
one of Campbell, who states that he had read the complainant's affidavit and knew the contents thereof, and that the
matters there set forth in relation to himself and his action
in the matters referred to were true. Thus it appears from
the sworn statement of Campbell that his action, which caused
the loss of the money, was in direct disregard of instructions
to him.
Under these circumstances, why should he not be held to
make good the loss? By the assignment to him' he became a
trustee of the mortgages for the complainant. He did not take
the assignment on his own account; it was for the lender to
secure the loan. In taking it he assumed a duty towards his
cestui que trust which he could not disregard. It was to -see
that the assignment effected its purpose, so far, at least, as to
withdraw the control of the mortgages from the mortgagee, the
bank, and its assignee, Monroe, and thus render them available
to the lender.
In stating the duties of trustees, Lewin, in his work on
trusts, says: "The first duty of trustees is to place the trust property in
a state of security. Thus, if the trust fund be an equitable
interest, of which the legal interest cannot be at present transferred to them, it is their duty to lose no time in giving notice
of their own inte'rest to the persons in whom the legal estate is
vested; for otherwise, he who created the trust might incumber the interest he has settled in favor of a purchaser without
notice, who, by first giving notice to the legal holder, might
gain a priority. If the trust fund be a chose in action as a
debt, which may be reduced into possession, it is the trustee's
duty to be active in getting it in; and any unnecessary delay

TYLER V. OADIPBELL.

[Sup. Ot.

in this respect will be at his own personal risk." Lewin, c. 14,
sect. 1, 6th Eng. ed.; Jacob v. Lucas, 1 Beav. 486; Caffrey v.
Darby, 6 Ves. Jr. 488; Platel v. Craddock, Cooper, 481; McGachen v. Dew, 15 Beav. 84; Wiles v. Gresham, 2 Drew. 258;
Cooper v. Day, 1 Rich. (S. C.) Eq. 26.
To the same effect is the language of Perry in his treatise on
trusts. The trustee must take such steps as will prevent incumbrances from being placed upon the property transferred to
him, and, of course, as will prevent the possibility of its destruction, as in this case, from its conversion by the original
assignor or settlor. "If the trust fund," he says, "consists in
part of notes, bonds, policies of insurance, and other similar
eoses in action, notice should be given to the promisors, obligors, or makers of the instruments." Law of Trusts, sec. 438.
This doctrine is supported and asserted in different forms by
a great number of adjudged cases. That a trustee, by whose
negligence of a plain duty the property in his hands is wasted
or injured, is chargeable with the loss, is a doctrine which pervades the whole law of trusts. And it is the only doctrine
which will insure fidelity in trustees and protection to the interests of cestuis que trust. As justly observed by counsel, the
simpler and easier the act required, the clearer the duty and
liability for its neglect. If any distinction can be made in
liability where duties are neglected, the liability should be the
more strictly enforced where, as in a case like this, the duty
required was the mere observance of ordinary prudence.
I think the decree should be reversed.

