558

MEROHANTS' BANK OF PITTSBURGH V. SLAGLE.

[Sup. Ot.

appeal was prayed, and since the record discloses no ground
upon which its fairness can be impeached, the court below
properly overruled the exceptions and confirmed the sale. The
order appealed from must, consequently, be

Affirmed.

MERCHANTs'

BANK O1 PITTSBURGH v. SLAGI.

Where the trustees of a bankrupt who were appointed under sect. 5103 of the
Revised Statutes distributed the proceeds of the sale of his property pursuant
to an order entered by the proper District Court sitting in bankruptcy, and

affirmed by the Circuit Court in the exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction,Held, that the order is binding, and that the creditors are thereby concluded.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John Dalzell and Mr. J. P. Slagle for the appellant.

MU.r. George ,Sliras,Jr., for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Christopher Zug and Charles H.. Zug, composing the partnership of Zug & Co., were, on their own petition of May 11, 1876,
declared bankrupts by the District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
At the first meeting of the creditors, Slagle and Miller were
appointed trustees, and Smith, Dunlap, and Clarke a committee of creditors, under sect. 5103 of the Revised Statutes. This
action of the creditors was duly approved by an order of the
District Court.
The trustees disposed of the property of the bankrupts, of
which the Sable Iron Works, sold for $130,000, constituted
the principal item. They then submitted their final accounts
of the copartnership assets and the individual assets, and, on
the committee approving them, made an order of distribution
among the creditors.
Thereupon Coleman and others, creditors of Christopher Zug

Oct. 1882.]

MERCHANTS' BANK OF P1ITTSBT.HRG

V. SLAGLE.

559

individually, applied to the District Court and obtained a rule
on the trustees whereby a report of their order for distribution
was filed in that court. They then took exceptions to the report, in which the separate creditors of Charles H. Zug joined,
on the ground that the Sable Iron Works had never been partnership property, but that the title was held by the two Zugs
as tenants in common, in the proportion of four-ffths by Christopher and one-fifth by Charles. On final hearing these exceptions were sustained, and an order was made directing that the
proceeds of the sale of the iron works be distributed on that
basis to the private creditors of the individuals who composed
the partnership.
An appeal to the Circuit Court from this order was dismissed,
on the ground that no appeal lay from such an order. At
the same time, in a proceeding under the supervisory power
of the Circuit Court, a full hearing was had on the merits, and
the action of the District Court affirmed.
From that order an appeal was taken to this court, which
was dismissed on the ground that, being a proceeding under the
supervisory power of the Circuit Court, it was not reviewable
here. MNirick v. Coleman, 95 U. S. 266.
In that case it was urged that the District Court, in assuming
to control the trustees in the distribution of the fund in their
hands, acted without jurisdiction, and that its order was void ;
'to which this court responded by saying: "1If, as is claimed,
the District Court acted without jurisdiction or in a manner
not to bind the parties, its decree as made was void; and the
aggrieved partnership creditors may very properly consider
whether they cannot proceed in equity to call the trustees to
a proper accounting and distribution.
Upon that question,
however, we express no opinion."
It is said that the suit now before us on appeal was commenced under this suggestion, in which the partnership creditors, calling into court the trustees and the individual creditors,
seek to have the sum arising from the sale of the Sable Iron
Works distributed among the former alone.
As this would require the order of the District Court on that
subject to be set aside and reversed, or disregarded as a nullity,
we are compelled to consider, before we proceed further, if this

560

MERCHANTS' BANK OF PITTSBURGH V. SLAGLE.

[Sup. Ct

can be done. All known modes of review of that order have
been exhausted. The appeal from it to the Circuit Court was
dismissed, whether rightfully or not cannot now be inquired
into. On the petition of review, which was the legitimate
mode of correcting the error, if one existed, the Circuit Court
affirmed the order of the District Court; and from that decree,
as we decided in the case above cited, there could be no further
0
appeal.
It only remains to inquire if it was absolutely void for want
of jurisdiction in the District Court to make it.
It is strenuously argued that when the estate of the bankrupt
passes to the trustees appointed under the provisions of sect.
5103 of the Revised Statutes, the power of the District Court
as a court of bankruptcy over them and their proceedings
ceases, and that they become invested with a judicial function,
in the exercise of which they are amenable to no other court.
That as to collection and distribution of the bankrupt's assets,
the case has been taken out of the category of bankrupt proceedings and wholly withdrawn from the control of the District
Court.
It is difficult to perceive any plausible reason for this idea.
The meeting of the creditors, which may appoint the trustees and the committee, must be one held after the court has
made an adjudication of bankruptcy and ordered such a meeting. The resolution of the meeting for settling the estate
under this section by trustees and a committee, and the appointment of the trustees and committee, must be presented to the
court and approved by it, or they are of no force.
The trustees are declared to have and to hold the property in
the same manner and with the same powers and rights, in all
respects, as the bankrupt would have had if no proceeding in
bankruptcy had been taken, or as the assignee in bankruptcy
would have done had such resolution not been passed, showing
thus that their powers were compounded of that of the owner
and of the ordinary assignee in bankruptcy.
The court by order is to direct all acts and things needful to
be done to carry into effect the resolution of the creditors, and
the winding up and settlement of any estate under the provision of this section shall be deemed to be proceedings in bank-

Oct. 1882.]

MERCHANTS' BANK OF PITTSBURGH V. SLAGLE.

561

ruptcy, and the trustees shall have all the rights and powers of
assignees in bankruptcy.
It further provides that the court may compel the production
of witnesses, books, and papers before the trustees, in the same
manner as in other cases of bankruptcy, and that the bankrupt
shall in like manner be entitled to his discharge.
Under sect. 4972 of the Revised Statutes, "the jurisdiction
conferred upon the District Courts as courts of bankruptcy extends . . . to the collection of all the assets of the bankrupt;
.. . to the adjustment of the various priorities and conflicting
interests of all parties; . . . to the marshalling and disposition
of the different funds and assets, so as to secure the rights of all
parties and due distribution of the assets among all the creditors; . . . to all acts, matters, and things to be done under and
in virtue of the bankruptcy, until the final distribution and
settlement of the estate of the bankrupt and the close of the
proceedings in bankruptcy."
Is there anything in sect. 5103 in conflict with this comprehensive declaration of the powers of the District Court over acase in bankruptcy "until the final distribution and settlement
of the estate" ?
On the contrary, it is one of the express provisions of the
latter section that "the winding up and settlement of any estate under provisions of this section shall be deemed to be proceedings in bankruptcy," and the section is full of directions to
the court to aid in this settlement, and the trustees are twice
assimilated in their functions to those of an assignee in bankruptcy.
We are unable to see any judicial functions conferred on
these trustees. Their powers, though somewhat enlarged, are
in the main the same as those of the assignee, and are properly
ministerial. It is true, they may do many things without an
order of the court which an assignee could not do, such as selling property, allowing claims, and compromising disputes about
rights of property. We might even hold that their order of final
distribution would be valid if uncontested. ffoors v. Albro, 129
Mass. 9.
But in all this we are of opinion that their action is subject
to the revision and final control of the District Court whenever
VOL. XVx.

36

562

MERCHANTS'

BANK OF PITTSBURGH v. SLAGLE.

[Sup. Ct.

that is invoked in aid of the substantial rights of any one interested in what they do. It is inconceivable that Congress
intended to create in them an imperium in imperio, whose actions, however wrong, could be reached by no tribunal whatever. And if any supervision of their acts is to be had at all, it
is very clear that the District Court is the one to whom that
duty is confided.
A case bearing a strong analogy to this is that of Wilmot v.
Mudge, 103 U. S. 217, in which it was decided that a composition order, under the act of June 22, 1874, c. 390, was a bankruptcy proceeding, and that, notwithstanding the act declared
that such a composition should be binding on all the creditors,
it did not discharge the bankrupt from debts created by fraud;
because that act was in parimateria with the general bankrupt
law, and was not inconsistent with sect. 5117 of the Revised
Statutes, in regard to debts created by fraud.
That was a stronger case than this in favor of the argument
that a composition was a proceeding which took the case out of
the other provisions of the bankrupt law, for the statute which
authorized it was passed long after the general law and after
the revision.
In the present case the trustee section is a part of the original statute of bankruptcy, and contains in itself the declaration that what is done under it is a part of the bankruptcy
proceeding.
As we are satisfied that the District Court, in correcting the
order of distribution made by the trustees, acted within its
powers, and as that order has passed beyond judicial review,
except as it has already been had on petition to the Circuit
Court, that order must govern the decision of this case, and
the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is
Affirmed

