Ot. 1882.]

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. STONE.

. . . water-power," the phrase "other works of internal improvement," in the Kansas statute, might be fairly construed
as embracing works of the same class, and consequently as
embracing a steam grist-mill. The court was somewhat influenced, as plainly appears from its opinion, by decisions of
the Supreme Court of Kansas, particularly that of .ommissioners of Leavenworth County v. lliller, 7 Kan. 479.
The present case is different. The only work of internal
improvement specially described in the Nebraska statute is a
railroad, and we are not justified by anything in Township of
Burlington v. Beasley, or in the decisions of the courts of
Nebraska, in holding that a steam or other kind of grist-mill is
of the class of internal improvements which municipal townships in that State are empowered, by the statute in question,
to aid by an issue of bonds.
For these reasons we adjudge that the bonds issued by the
county commissioners in behalf of Juniata Precinct, in Adams
County, Nebraska, in aid of the construction of a steam gristmill in that precinct, are unauthorized by the act of Feb. 15,
1869; and as authority for their issue is not claimed to exist
under any other statute, they must be held to be without binding force against the precinct.
Judgment affirmed.

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. STONE.
Bonds issued in the name of an independent school district, in the State of Iowa,
contain these recitals: "This bond is issued by the board of school directors
by authority of an election of the voters of said school district held on the
thirty-first day of July, 1869, in conformity with the provisions of chapter 98
of acts 12th General Assembly of the State of Iowa." Held, 1. That the recitals imply as well that the bonds were issued by authority of the election, as
that the election was lawfully held, but do not, necessarily or clearly, import
a compliance with those provisions which, following substantially the words
of the State Constitution, prohibit such a district from incurring indebtedness
"to an amount in the aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of its
taxable property, to be ascertained by the last State and county tax lists previous to the incurring of such indebtedness." 2. That, in a suit on the bonds,
the district is not estopped by the recitals from showing that the indebtedness
of which the bonds are evidence exceeds the amount limited by the Constitution and laws of the State.

SCHOOL DISTRICT v. STONE.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George G. Wright for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. C. Nourse and i}Ir. B. F. Kauffman for the defendant in error;
MR. JUSTICE, HAR.LAN delivered the opinion of the court.
On the first day of July, 1870, the Board of School Directors
of Independent School District of Steamboat Rock, Hardin
County, Iowa, issued, in its name, thirty bonds, each for $500,
and bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum.
Each bond recites that it "is issued by the board of school
directors by authority of an election of the voters of said school
district held on the thirty-first day of July, 1869, in conformity
with the provisions of chapter 98 of acts 12th General Assembly of the State of Iowa." The statute referred to authorizes
independent school districts to borrow money, within a prescribed limit as to amount, for the purpose of erecting and completing school-houses, by issuing negotiable bonds, - provided
the loan was previously sanctioned by a majority of all the
votes cast at an annual or a special meeting of the electors, of
which meeting the same notice should be given as required
by law in case of the election of officers of such districts, and
which notice should state the amount proposed to be raised by
a sale of bonds.
When the bonds were issued the assessed value of the property of the district, as shown by the last assessment immediately
preceding the issue of the bonds, was $47,986. The indebtedness of the district was $425, and there was no money in its
treasury. Upon a portion of the bonds, Stone, at their maturity, brought suit in the court below against the district, and
judgment was rendered in his favor. The district thereupon
brought this writ of error.
The Constitution of Iowa declares that "no county, or other
political or municipal corporation, shall be allowed to become
indebted in any manner, or for any purpose, to an amount in
the aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of the
taxable property within such county or corporation, to be as-

Oct. 1882.]

SCHOOL DISTRICT v. STONE.

certained by the last State and county tax lists, previous to the
incurring of such indebtedness." The largest indebtedness,
therefore, which the district, consistently with the fundamental
law of the State, could have contracted, when these bonds were
issued, was five per cent on $47,986. Consequently, those here
in suit, constituting one issue, and aggregating $15,000, must
be held to have been made without authority of law, and,
upon well-established principles, are not enforceable obligations
against the district, unless it is estopped by their recitals from
showing, against a bona fide purchaser, the value of its taxable
property as disclosed by the last State and county tax lists
previous to the creation of the debt.
The argument on behalf of defendants in error, briefly
stated, is this: That the law invested the school board with
authority to execute bonds for the purposes for which those in
suit were issued, within the limit, as to amount, prescribed by
the Constitution and the statute passed in conformity therewith; that that board, when issuing the bonds, were under a
duty to determine, and necessarily did determine, whether the
aggregate indebtedness of the district, thus increased, was in
excess of five per cent upon the value of the taxable property
of the district, as shown by the last State and county tax lists;
consequently, it is contended, their recitals should be regarded
as a declaration by the board, upon which bona fide purchasers
could rely, of its determination that the taxable property of
the district, as thus ascertained, was of value sufficient to justify
the proposed indebtedness of $15,000.
Waiving any discussion of the question, whether the constitutional requirement that the amount of the taxable property
should be "ascertained by the last State and county tax lists,"
did not compel every purchaser, at his peril, to obtain from that
source the necessary information, and did not preclude him from
relying upon the representations of district officers as to what
those lists disclosed, we are of opinion that the recitals in the
bonds do not, necessarily nor distinctly, import any determination of that question by the district officers invested with authority, under certain circumstances, to issue them. Had the bonds
recited that they were issued by authority of the election of
July 31, 1869, and in conformity with the provisions of the

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. STONE.

[Sup. Ct.

statute referred to, there would, in view of the decisions of this
court, be more force in the argument in behalf of the defendant
in error. Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Town of
Venice v. Murdock, id. 494; Converse v. City of Fort Scott, id.
503; Marcy v. Township of Oswego, id. 637; Commissioners of
-Douglass County v. Bolles, 94 id. 104; Commissioners of Johnson County v. January, id. 202; Buchanan v. Litehfield, 102
id. 278. And we should, then, be obliged to decide whether,
in view of the constitutional provision, a false recital by the
school board as to the value of the taxable property, would
conclude the district as between it and a bona fide purchaser
for value; for, in such case, since the statute itself contains,
substantially, the same limitation upon indebtedness by independent school districts as is prescribed by the State Constitution for county, or other political or municipal corporations,
a distinct recital that the bonds were issued, in conformity
with the statute, would fairly import a compliance with the
Constitution. But the recitals do not, as we have said, necessarily import a compliance with the statute or the fundamental
law of the StaLte upon that subject. They necessarily imply
nothing more than that the bonds were issued by authority of
the electors, and that the election was held in conformity with
the statute. The statute may have been pursued as to the
notice required to be given of the time and place of the election,
and as to the manner in which the will of the voters was to be
ascertained, and yet it may have been disregarded in respect of
the limit it imposed upon district indebtedness. The declaration, therefore, that the election was held in conformity with
the statute does not, with sufficient distinctness, imply that the
indebtedness voted was less than five per cent on the value of
the taxable property of the district, as shown by the State and
county tax lists.
This construction of the words employed in the bonds is
characterized by counsel for the defendant in error as too narrow and technical. It may be a strict construction, and such,
it seems to the court, ought to be the rule when it is proposed,
by mere recitals upon the part of the officers of a municipal
corporation, to exclude inquiry as to whether bonds, issued in
its name, were made in violation of the Constitution and of the

Oct. 1882.]

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. STONE.

statute, of the provisions of which all must take notice. Numerous cases have been determined in this court, in which we
have said that where a statute confers power upon a municipal
corporation, upon the performance of certain precedent conditions, to execute bonds in aid of the construction of a railroad,
or for other like -purposes, and imposes upon certain officersinvested with authority to determine whether such conditions
have been performed - the responsibility of issuing them when
such conditions have been complied with, recitals, by such officers, that the bonds have been issued "in pursuance of," or "in
conformity with," or "by virtue of," or "by authority of," the
statute, have been held, in favor of bonafide purchasers of value,
to import full compliance with the statute, and to preclude inquiry as to whether the precedent conditions had been performed
before the bonds were issued. But in all such cases, as a careful
examination will show, the recitals fairly imported a compliance,
in all substantial respects, with the statute giving authority to
issue the bonds. We are unwilling to enlarge or extend the
rule, now established by numerous decisions. Sound public
policy forbids it. Where the holder relies for protection upon
mere recitals, they should, at least, be clear and unambiguous,
in order to estop a municipal corporation, in whose name such
bonds have been made, from showing that they were issued in
violation, or without authority, of law.
For the reasons given, we are of opinion that, in the present
action on the bonds, judgment should have been entered upon
the special verdict for the district. To what extent, if any,
the district may be held responsible, in some other form of proceeding, is a question not now before us, and as to which we
express no opinion.
Judgment reversed with directions to render judgment, upon
the special verdict,for the defendant below.

