Oct. 1882.]

BROWN V. COLORADO.

who merely makes and sells the buckle or link in each case
may be liable for infringing those patents, he is so liable only
as he is regarded as doing what he does with the purpose of
having the buckle or link combined with a band and used to
bale cotton. Because the defendants prepare and sell the
arrow tie, composed of the buckle or link and the band, intending to have it used to bale cotton and to produce the results
set forth in the Cook and the McComb patents, they infringe
those patents. Saxe v. Hammond, I Holmes, 456; Bowker v.
Dows, 3 Banning & Arden, 518. We do not decide that they
are liable as infringers of either of the three patents merely
because they have sold the buckle considered apart from the
band or from the entire structure as a tie.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the defendants infringed
the third claim of the Cook patent, the third, fourth, and
fifth claims of the Brodie reissue, and the claim of the
McComb patent.
Decree reversed, with costs, with directions to enter a decree
for the plaintiffs, in respect to those claims, for an account
of profits and damages, as prayed in the bill, and to take
suchfurther proceedings in the suit as may be in conformity
with the opinion of this court.

BROWN v. COLORADO.
The State of Colorado brought ejectment in one of her courts, and offered in
evidence the defendant's deed to the Territory of Colorado for the demanded
premises. He objected to its introduction, upon the ground that at its date
"the Territory had no right to take a conveyance of real estate without the
consent of the government of the United States." The objection was overruled. Held, that the judgment rendered for the State is not subject to review
here, it not appearing that any Federal question was either raised and passed
upon or necessarily involved.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Colorado.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

BROWN V. COLORADO.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Charles IT Toll, Attorney-General of Colorado, and Mr.
Henry X. Teller in support of the motion.
Mr. Charles Case and Mr. James Hf. Brown in opposition
thereto.
MR. CEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado, rendered in a suit in ejectment
brought by the State against Brown, the plaintiff in error. It
is not claimed that any question which can give us jurisdiction was directly raised by the pleadings, but on the trial in
the District Court the State, to make out its title, offered in
evidence a deed from him to the Territory of Colorado. To
its introduction an objection was made, on the ground, among
others, "that the Territory of Colorado had no right to take
a conveyance of real estate at the time of making the deed
without the consent of the government of the United States."
This objection was overruled and an exception taken. When
the case went to the Supreme Court, one of the assignments
of error was to the effect that the court erred in receiving this
deed in evidence. As the judgment was affirmed, this assignment of error must have been overruled. It is claimed that
on account of this the judgment is reviewable here.
To give us jurisdiction under sect. 709 of the Revised Statutes, it must in some way appear from the return which is
made to the writ of error that "the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States"
has been drawn in question, and the decision is against their
validity; or that "the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, any State" has been drawn in question "on
the ground of their being repugnant td the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States," and the decision is in favor
of their validity; or that some "title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or
statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under, the
United States; and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or immunity" so claimed.
It certainly does not appear that in this case the court below

Oct. 1882.]

BROWN V. COLORADO.

decided against the validity of any treaty, statute, or authority
of the United States, or in favor of any statute or authority of
a State claimed to be repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States. All the plaintiff in error insisted
upon below was that the Territory of Colorado could not take
a conveyance of real property without the consent of the government of the United States; but whether this disability grew
out of a statute of the United States, or of the Territory, is not
stated. We know judicially, and so did the court below, that
Congress, sect. 6 of the act of Feb. 28, 1861, c. 59, providing a
temporary government for the Territory, granted to it legislative power over all rightful subjects of legislation cbnsistent
with the Constitution and that act, and that neither the Constitution nor that act coiitained, in express terms, any such
limitation as is now contended for. The record furnishes no
indication that any statute of the United States was brought to
the attention of the court below, and a ruling asked upon it in
connection with the objection which was made to the admissibility of the deed. No judge, in deciding upon the objection, as
it was made and presented, would be likely to suppose that if he
admitted the evidence he would deny the defendant any "right,
title, privilege, or immunity" "set up or claimed" under a
statute of the United States. Certainly, if the judgments of the
courts of the States are to be reviewed here for decisions upon
such questions, it should be only when it appears unmistakably
that the court either knew or ought to have known that such a
question was involved in the decision to be made. The rule
was stated by Mr. Justice Miller in Bridge Proprietors v.
Hoboken Company, 1 Wall. 116, 143, thus: "The court must
be able to see clearly, from the whole record, that a certain provision of the Constitution or act of Congress was relied on by
the party who brings the writ of error, and that the right thus
claimed by him was denied." While Mr. Justice Story, in
Crowell v. Bandell, 10 Pet. 368, 398, said that it was not necessary that the question should appear on the record to have
been raised and the decision made in direct and positive terms,
iplsssimLs verbis, but that it was sufficient if it appeared by
clear and necessary intendment that the question must have
been raised, and must have been decided in order to have
VOL. XVI.

7

BROWN V. COLORADO.

[Sup. (it.

induced the judgment, he also said it was "not sufficient to
show that a question might have arisen or been applicable to
the case ; unless it is further shown, on the record, that it did
arise, and was applied by the State court to the case." Under
this rule it is clear the admission of the deed did not necessarily
involve any such error as will give us jurisdiction.
Neither does the record show that a decision was rendered
below in favor of the validity of any law of Colorado impairing
the obligation of a contract. No such question was presented
by the pleadings, and the rulings do not indicate that anything
of the kind was brought to the attention of the court; but if
the point made here in the argument had been made below, it
would not have altered the condition of the case in regard to
our jurisdiction. The claim is, that the Territory of Colorado
contracted with Brown to erect a capitol and other public
buildings on the premises conveyed; but, if that were so, the
Constitution of the State and the statutes relied on did not
impair the obligation of such a contract. The most that can
be said of them is, that in this way the contract was violated
by the State. The question is not, whether the constitutional
provisions and the statutes in question are valid, but whether,
by the adoption of the Constitution by the people, and the passage of the statutes by the legislature, any condition attached
to the conveyance has been broken which authorized him to
revoke his deed and take possession of the property he conveyed. The decision of this question by the State court is not
reviewable here. All the obligations of the original contract
remain, and the State has not attempted to impair them. If
the contract is all that he claims it to be, and the Constitution
and statutes are just what he says they are, the most that can
be contended for is that the State has refused to do what the
Territory agreed should be done. This may violate the contract, but it does not in any way impair its obligation. If we
should declare the constitutional provisions and the statutes
invalid as against the contract, it would not change the rights
of the parties in this action. Whether valid or invalid, the
plaintiff in error could not defend the action successfully,
unless he was entitled to revoke his deed and re-enter upon his
land, in case the Territory, or the State, delayed for an unrea-

Oct. 1882.]

BACON v. RIVES.

sonable time to erect the buildings which were contemplated.
If he could, the Constitution and the statutes would have no
other effect than as evidence to show that the State had deliberately refused to perform.
It follows that the case presents no question which can be
considered here, and the motion to dismiss is
Granted.

BAcoN v. RIvEs.
1. Where the complainants are citizens of the State in a court whereof the suit
was brought, and the defendant, who is the real party to the controversy,
and against whom relief is sought, is a citizen of another State, his right to
remove the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States cannnot be defeated upon the ground that the citizenship of another defendant who is a
stranger to that controversy, and who occupies substantially the position of
a mere garnishee, is the same as that of the complainants.
2. A suit upon a contract made and to be performed in another State or country, by a person who then resided there, cannot be maintained in Virginia,
after the right of action thereon is barred by the laws of such State or
country.
3. In the latter part of the year 1863, at the instance of A., then a resident of
Texas, B., a resident of Virginia, forwarded to him money in trust to invest,
pursuant to specific instructions. A., in 1865, reported that he had invested
the fund in the transportation of cotton, but did not state what profits had
accrued therefrom. No further report was made by him. In 1875, B., on
discovering where A. was, filed a bill against him to compel a discovery
and an accounting, which, upon demurrer, was dismissed upon the ground
that the suit was barred by the Statute of Limitations of both States.
field, that in view of the case made by the bill, and of the subsisting trust,
the existence of which is admitted by the demurrer, B. is entitled to a discovery of the disposition made of the money, and that the limitation does
not commence running until the trust is closed, or until A., with the knowledge of B., disavowed the trust or held adversely to his claim.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Virginia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. William S. Boyall and Mr-. Joseph Bryan for the appellants.
1r. Lgbert B. Watson for the appellees.

