Oct. 1882.]

BADGER V. RANLETT.

the money within the time limited by the contract, and has
never paid it or any part of it; and eighteen months before the
commencement of this suit Hardwick gave him notice that his
option to purchase had been lost, and told him that he had no
interest in the lands.
It is clear from the terms of the contract that Richardson
was not bound by it. He did not agree to purchase any share
in the lands or to pay Hardwick any money. The contract
gave Hardwick no cause of action against Richardson. The
latter was not bound to become interested in the lands, or to
pay any money thereon, unless he chose to do so.
In suits upon unilateral contracts, it is only where the defendant has had the benefit of the consideration for which he bargained that he can be held bound. Jones v. Bobinson, 17 L. J.
Exch. 36; .lills v. Blaekcall, 11 Q. B. 358; .lorton v. Burn,
7 Ad. & E. 19; Zennaway v. Treleavan, 5 Mee. & W. 498.
In this case Richardson having failed to pay the money or any
part of it within the time limited, the privilege accorded him by
the contract was at an end, and all the rights under it ceased.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was,
therefore, right, and must be
Affirmed.

BADGER v. RANLETT.
1. Cotton-ties, each consisting of an iron strip and an iron buckle, were, in 1880,
imported in bundles, each bundle consisting of thirty strips and thirty
buckles, each strip eleven feet long, the whole blackened. Held, that they
are subject to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorem, as "manufactures
of iron, not otherwise provided for," under schedule E of sect. 2504 of the
Revised Statutes, and not to a duty of one cent and one-half per pound,
under said schedule, as "band, hoop, and scroll iron."
2. The question as to whether the ties are subject to some other rate of duty
than one of those two not having been raised below, cannot be raised by the
plaintiff in error in this court.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
The firm of D. L. Ranlett & Co. imported into the port
of New Orleans, from Liverpool, England, in 1880, certain

BADGER V. RANLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

articles, entered some as "bundles black iron cotton-ties, thirty
strips each bundle, and thirty Kennedy buckles;" others as
"bundles blacked iron cotton-ties, arrow buckles, No. 4, thirty
buckles and thirty strips to each bundle, eleven feet;" others
as "bundles blacked iron cotton-ties, Kennedy buckles, thirty,
buckles and thirty strips to each bundle, eleven feet." Having
paid under protest the exacted duty of one cent and onehalf per pound on the weight of the iron strips and the
buckles, the importers, claiming that the lawful duty was
thirty-five per cent ad valorem, appealed to the Secretary of
the Treasury, who affirmed the decision of the collector. This
suit was then brought against the latter by the importers. The
petition alleges that the imported goods were "manufactures
of iron, viz. certain invoices of black iron cotton-ties," "in
bundles of thirty strips each, cut to the required length of
eleven feet, and sundry buckles," "being thirty buckles to each
bundle of said ties;" that the proper duty was thirty-five per
cent ad valorem, and no more, because the ties, composed of
the strips and buckles in said bundles, constituted a manufacture of iron for a special and important purpose, and were
" manufactures of iron not otherwise provided for; " and that,
even if the strips of iron were not to be admitted at a duty of
tbhirty-five per cent ad valorem, the duty on the buckles could
not lawfully have exceeded that rate, while that exacted on
them amounted to an excess of $750. The whole amount
claimed to be recovered back was $3,762.
The question involved arises under sect. 2504 of the Revised
Statutes, which, in schedule E, imposes the following duties:
"All band, hoop, and scroll iron, from one-half to six inches
wide, under one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and not thinner
than number twenty, wire gauge; one and one-half cents per
pound. . . .All other descriptions of rolled or hammered iron,
not otherwise provided for; one cent and one-fourth per pound.
• * * Manufactures . .. . not otherwise, provided for, of . .
iron, . . . thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
The bill of exceptions states that on the trial certain facts
were "conceded, as set forth in note of evidence and statement
of facts filed in the cause in open court;" that "a sample of
the articles of merchandise imported by plaintiffs, and described

Oct. 1882.]

BADGER V. RANLETT.

in the petition," was "produced and exhibited to the jury;"
that "witnesses" were "produced on the part of the plaintiffs
and on the part of the defendant; " that it was "claimed on
the part of the plaintiffs that the imported articles, for the
recovery of a portion of the duties paid upon which this suit
was brought, should have been classed and subjected to duties
as cotton-ties, under the designation 'manufactured articles not
otherwise provided for;'" and that it was "claimed on the
part of the defendant that the said imported articles should
have been classed and subjected to duties under the designation
' band or hoop iron.'" The "note of evidence and statement
of facts" sets forth that the plaintiffs introduced the entries of
the goods, and then proceeds: "It was admitted that the allegations of petition were correct as to partnership of plaintiffs,
ownership and importation of property, amount of same, and
duties paid, and protest, appeals and affirmance of collector's
decision, and that the only issue disputed by defendant is the
question, which is the sole question to be decided, whether the
articles of merchandise described in the petition are dutiable
under schedule E as hoop, band, or scroll iron, or as ' manufactures of iron not otherwise provided for' in said schedule. In
case the plaintiffs be entitled to recover, it is understood that
the amount is 83,722.99."
At the request of the defendant the court charged that "if
the jury find from the evidence that the articles imported
by the plaintiffs consisted of iron bands, blackened, cut into
lengths of eleven feet, and put up in bundles of thirty, with
thirty buckles on one band in each bundle, and not permanently attached, then the fact that the buckles accompany
the bands will not prevent the bands from being included
in and dutiable under the denomination of band iron." The
court further charged "that the practical question to be determined by the jury is, whether the articles imported by
plaintiffs are band, hoop, or scroll iron, or, on the other hand,
cotton-ties ;" that "this question must be determined by mercantile usage, as shown by the testimony in the cause; that, if
the jury find from the evidence that said articles are cottonties, and are known in commerce as such, then they are subject
to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorem;" but that, "if the
VOL. XVi.

17

258

BADGER V. RANLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

jury find that they are band, hoop, or scroll iron, and known in
commerce as such, they are subject to a duty of one and a half
cents a pound." The defendant excepted to -said "last charge,
and to each part of the same." The verdict was in these
words: "We, the jury, find a verdict for the plaintiff in the
sum of $3,722.99, and that sample on exhibition in court, and
in controversy, is cotton-ties." A judgment was entered for
said amount, and the collector brought this writ of error.
The Solicitor-aeneral for the plaintiff in error.
Xr. William Wirt Howe and If~r. J. H. Hennard,contra.
MR.JUSTIcE BLATOHIFORD,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error contends that the court charged the
jury, in substance, that if the goods were, and were known as,
cotton-ties, they could not be at the same time band iron; and
that this was error. The argument is, that the term "band
iron" may include an article known as a "cotton-tie;" that to
say that one sort of band iron is known by the name of "cotton-tie" is not to say that necessarily it is no longer band iron;
that all that was done to the band iron was to cut it into
lengths of eleven feet and blacken it; and that this is not to
make a manufacture of iron not otherwise provided for, within
the statute.
The charge complained of must be considered in connection
with all that occurred at the trial, as shown by the record.
The "note of evidence and statement of facts" says that the
only issue disputed by the defence, and the only question to be
decided, was, whether the articles "described in the petition"
are dutiable as hoop, band, or scroll iron," or as "manufactures
of iron not otherwise provided for." The description in the
petition says that the articles are iron cotton-ties, in strips,
each "cut to the required length of eleven feet," with a buckle
to each strip. The record shows that there was evidence given
on the trial by witnesses for both parties, but on what subject
does not appear, except that some evidence was given as to
"mercantile usage." Evidence may have been given as to
whether the strips were cut in lengths from merchantable
band iron, or cut in lengths in the process of original manufac-

Oct. 1882.]

BADGER v. RANLETT.

ture. The agreed issue was as to whether the articles, so far
as the strips were concerned, were "band iron," or "manufactures of iron not otherwise provided for." The court placed
the issue before the jury as being whether the articles, so far
as the strips were concerned, were "band iron" or "cottonties." Of course, the buckles were not band iron. The charge
was to the effect that if the articles were known in commerce
as "cotton-ties," and were not known in commerce as "band
iron," they were subject to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad
valorem, as "manufactures of iron not otherwise provided for,"
and not to duty as "band iron."
The petition avers that the cotton-ties, composed of the
strips and buckles, "constitute a manufacture of iron for a
special and important purpose." It is to be assumed that this
fact was proved under the general issue pleaded. The verdict
distinctly finds that the articles were "cotton-ties," which is to
be taken as a finding that the articles were not "band iron."
Not being "band iron," they could not, under the issues tried,
have been other than "manufactures of iron not otherwise provided for." The substance of the whole charge was, that if the
jury found that the articles were "band iron," the correct duty
had been imposed and the plaintiffs could not recover. The
strips not being band iron, and the buckles, certainly, not being
band iron, the proper duty was thirty-five per cent ad valorern.
The plaintiff in error further contends that the court erred
in charging that if the articles were not "band iron" they were
subject to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorem. The contention is, that if what appears to have been done in respect of
the strips, to produce the article, amounted to a manufacture,
it brought the article within the duty of one cent and onefourth per pound, as falling under the head of "all other descriptions of rolled or hammered iron, not otherwise provided
for." But, by the "note of evidence and statement of facts"
the defendant admitted that -the only question which he raised
was whether the articles were "band iron," and so dutiable at
one cent and one-half per pound, or whether they were dutiable at thirty-five per cent ad valorern, as "manufactures of
iron not otherwise provided for." This is shown by the record
to have been the only question tried. The plaintiff in error

WALLACE V. PENFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

cannot here raise the question as to a duty of one cent and
one-fourth per pound, because it does not appear that he raised
it on the trial. The bill of exceptions distinctly states that his
only contention was that the articles were dutiable as "band
or hoop iron."

Judgment affirmed.

WALLACE v. PENFIELD.
1. A deed which a man caused to be made to his wife, for lands whereon they
resided, will not be set aside at the instance of his subsequent creditors, it
appearing that at its date, and when he paid for the lands and the improvements which he afterwards erected thereon; his property largely exceeded
his debts, and that there was no intent to defraud.
2. A misdescription of the lands will not defeat the wife's right to them, to the
exclusion of those creditors, there being no doubt as to the lands intended
to be conveyed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The First National Bank of Quincy, Illinois, recovered
against William Y. Williams and others, in the Circuit Court
of Lewis County, Missouri, three judgments,- one, on the 10th
of May, 1873, upon their note dated June 19, 1871; and the
others, on the 5th of March, 1874, upon their notes dated,
respectively, June 3, July 3, and July 19, 1871.
The La Grange Savings Bank of Missouri recovered, May
12, 1873, in the same court, against him and others, two judgments, upon their two notes, - one for $1,635.25, dated Aug.
14, 1871; the other, upon a note, dated Feb. 1, 1872.
Upon these various judgments executions were issued, and
levied upon a tract of land in that county, containing fortytwo acres, which Williams and his family occupied as their
residence. The legal title to it was, at that time, in his wife,
it having been conveyed to her by deed dated Feb. 11, 1868,
and duly filed for record on the 24th of that month. The deed
did not accurately describe the metes and bounds of the property intended to be conveyed, and, in order to correct the description, another deed was made to her on the 13th of December,

