Oct. 1882.]

PATTERSON V. LYNDE.

cause it was with him that the building contract was made;
and if it could operate at all as a release, would be to them, for
the benefit of those who, by law, had become his successors in
the title; and that release would necessarily convey with it, as
an incident, an extinguishment of the obligation of the contract for construction, and all the securities taken for its performance. It was in effect, and was doubtless intended as, a
declaration, on the part of the United States, for the benefit of
whom it might concern, of its entire abandonment of all further connection with the battery and the contract for its conatruction. The subsequent assent on the part of Congress to
its acceptance by the State of New Jersey, as a bequest from
Edwin A. Stevens, while it could not operate to affect any
rights vested in the interval, is, at least, a legislative interpretation of its previous release. This resolution expressly recites
that Edwin A. Stevens was the owner of the battery in his
lifetime, and is scarcely more explicit in the recognition of his
title than was the conduct of all the parties, including the
present plaintiffs in error.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that there is no
error in the decree complained of, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

PATTERSON v. LYN~w.
The creditor of a corporation organized under the general laws of Oregon cannot, to recover his debt against it, enforce, by an action at law, the liability of
a stockholder upon an unpaid subscription to its capital stock.

E orRto the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Patterson, a judgment creditor of a mining company, organized under the general laws of Oregon "in relation to the
formation of private corporations," brought this action against
Lynde to enforce his liability to the company upon an unpaid
stock subscription, and thus sought to apply Lynde's indebtedness to the payment of the judgment.

PATTERSON V. LYNDE.

[Sup. Ot.

Lynde demurred, and judgment was rendered in his favor.
Patterson then brought this writ of error.
The constitutional and statutory provisions applicable to the
case are set forth in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Charles H. Harrisfor the plaintiff in error.
.r. Oharles f. Osborn for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The only question we deem it necessary to consider in this
case is, whether a creditor of a corporation, formed and organized under the general laws of Oregon "in relation to the formation of private corporations," can maintain an action at law
against a stockholder to recover, out of an unpaid balance of
subscription to the capital stock, the debt due to him from
the corporation.
Section 3 of article 11 of the Constitution of Oregon provides
that "the stockholders of all corporations and joint-stock companies shall be liable for the indebtedness of said corporation
to the amount of their stock subscribed and unpaid, and no
more."
Section 14 of the statute "in relation to the formation of private corporations " is as follows: "All sales of stock, whether
voluntary or otherwise, transfer to the purchaser all rights of
the original holder or person from whom the same is purchased, and subject such purchaser to the payment of any unpaid balance due or to become due on such stock. But if the
sale be voluntary, the seller is still liable to existing creditors
for the amount of such balance, unless the same be duly paid
by such purchaser."
Since this case was decided below, the Supreme Court of
Oregon has passed on the same question, and, in Ladd v. Cartwright, 7 Oreg. 329, determined that the individual liability of
stockholders for the indebtedness of the corporation is limited
to the amount of their stock subscribed and unpaid, and that
the remedy of the creditor to enforce this liability isin equity,
where the rights of the corporation, the stockholder, and all
the creditors can be adjusted in one suit. Of the eorrectness
of this decision we have no doubt. The liability of the stock-

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE OARLL.

holder is upon his subscription, that is to say, upon his obligation to contribute to the capital stock, which is a trust fund
for the benefit of those to whom the corporation, as a corporation, becomes liable. Sawyer v. Hoag, 17 Wall. 610. The
Constitution of Oregon created no new right in this particular;
it simply provided for the preservation of an old one. The
liability under this provision is not to the creditors, but for the
indebtedness. That is no more than the liability created by
the subscription. The subscription is part of the assets of the
corporation, at least so far as creditors are concerned. The
liability of the stockholder to the creditor is through the corporation, not direct. There is no privity of contract between
them, and the creditor has not been given, either by the Constitution or the statute, any new remedy for the enforcement
of his rights. The stockholder is liable to the extent that the
subscription represented by his stock requires him to contribute
to the corporate funds, and when sued for the money he owes,
it must be in a way to put what he pays, directly or indirectly,
into the treasury of the corporation for distribution according
to law. No one creditor can assume that he alone is entitled
to what any stockholder owes, and sue at law so as to appropriate it exclusively to himself.
Judgment affirmed.

Ex PARTE CARLL.
The reviewing power of this court in a criminal case is, on a writ of habeas corpus, confined to the determination of the question whether the court which
sentenced the prisoner had jurisdiction to try him for the offence whereof he
was indicted and to sentence him to imprisonment.

for a writ of habeas corpus and a certiorari.
MDr. Abram J. Dittenhoeffer in support of the petition.

PETITION

MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We have had occasion to say at the present term, in Ex
parte Curtis, that "we have no general power to review the

