Oct. 1882.]

DETROIT V. DEAN.

The mere proof that the money was received by him raises
no obligation to pay interest in the absence of some evidence of
conversion or some refusal to respond to a lawful requirement.
The obvious reason for this is that the government places
the money in the hands of this class of officers, and all others
who are disbursing officers, that it may remain there until
needed for use in the line of that officer's duty; and until that
duty requires such payment, or a return of the money to the
proper department of the government, he is in no default, and
cannot be required to pay interest.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. - United States v. Knowles, error to the same court as the preceding
case, was submitted at the same time for the United States by The SolicitorO neral.
Mn. JUsTIcn If=LEt, who delivered the opinion of the court, remarked, that
this case differed from that only in the circumstance that it was a suit on the
bond of a military storekeeper in the army, and the amount found due had
reference to property as well as money.
The same question as to interest was raised, and the court, on the ground
that no demand had been made until the service of the writ, only allowed interest from that date.
Though, in the case of personal property and, indeed, of money so held, proof
of a conversion might justify interest from the date of such conversion, there
was no evidence in this case of such conversion or of an earlier demand than
that made by the service of the writ.
Judgment affirmed.

DETRoIT v. DFAN.
A stockholder of a corporation, in order to protect its rights and property against
the threatened action of a third party, filed his bill against the latter and the
corporation, alleging, inter alia,that the directors, although thereunto requested,
had neglected and refused to institute proceedings. Held,that he must show
a clear case of such absolute and unjustifiable neglect and refusal of the directors to act as would lead to his irreparable injury, should he not be permitted
to bring the suit. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, cited upon this point and
approved.

APPEAIL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

DETROIT V. DEAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. .Henry ff. Duffield for the appellant.
1Vr. George Ticknor Curtis, Hr. Edward N. Dickerson, and
Mr. B. IF. flfeddaugh for the appellees.
MR. JUSTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

In December, 1871, the Mutual Gas-Light Company of Detroit was created a corporation under a general law of Michigan,
for the purpose of manufacturing, selling, and furnishing gas
for consumption in Detroit. The proposed corporators had
previously made application to the common council to authorize the corporation, when formed, to lay gas-pipes, mains,
conductors, and service-pipes in the avenues, streets, lanes,
highways, alleys, public parks, and squares throughout the
city; and obtained the passage of an ordinance granting permission to the company to lay the pipes, subject, however, to
certain conditions. Power was conferred by law upon the
city authorities to grant the permission "upon such reasonable
regulations as they might prescribe;" and they provided that
the permission should cease if the company should, at any
time, combine with any other company concerning rates to be
charged for gas either to the city or to private consumers; and
that the company should not sell its property, franchises, or
privileges to any other gas-light company, under the penalty of
a forfeiture of its works to the city. The company accepted
the terms of the ordinance; erected its manufacturing works in
the township of Hamtranck, just beyond the boundary of the
city; laid mains and service-pipes in the streets, and in November, 1872, commenced distributing and supplying gas to private
consumers and to the city, and continued to do so up to the
time this suit was commenced.
During this period, and previously, another corporation,
known as The Detroit Gas-Light Company, was in existence,
and was also supplying gas to private consumers and the city.
In June, 1877, the two companies entered into an agreement
to divide the city between them, one to take the part lying
easterly of the middle of Woodward Avenue, and the other the
part lying westerly of it, each to transfer to the other its property situated in the portion of the other, and each stipulating
not to lay mains or to supply gas in the portion of the other,

Oct. 1882.]

O ETROIT V. DEAN.

reserving, however, the right to fulfil all obligations resting
upon it with respect to any portion of the city. The difference
in the value of the property exchanged was $140,000 in favor
of the old company, and this sum the new company agreed to
pay.
The common council, deeming this division of the city, and
other things done or omitted by the company, to constitute a
breach of the conditions upon which permission to lay its
pipes in the streets had been granted, passed, on the 14th of
December, 1877, an ordinance repealing the previous one,
reciting as reasons for it that the company had not built its
gas-works in the city of Detroit, but in the township of Hamtranek; that it had entered into an agreement with the Detroit Gas-Light Company to divide the territory of Detroit
between them for the supply of gas; and that it had refused to
lay mains in streets on petition of owners or occupants of
buildings for a supply of gas.
The repealing ordinance declared that the company had thus
forfeited its gas-pipes, mains, conductors, and service-pipes
lying within the avenues, streets, lanes, highways, alleys, public parks, and squares of the city, and all other property situated within its limits; and that the title to the whole had
vested in the city of Detroit. It therefore directed the comptroller to assume possession and control of the same and to
serve a copy of the ordinance upon the company. To restrain
the enforcement of this ordinance and protect the rights and
property of the company the present suit was commenced
by the complainant, a citizen of New York. The company
had expended large sums of money in the construction of its
works, and created for that purpose a debt, represented by
bonds secured by mortgage upon its property, which, with
interest, amounted to $650,000.
There was, therefore, an
urgent necessity for legal proceedings to stop the seizure of
the property. There were only three directors of the company, two of them residents of Detroit and one of New
York; and as the company could not maintain a suit in
the Federal court against the city, they devised such a case
of refusal on their part to take the necessary legal proceedings to protect the property and rights of the company as to

DETROIT V. DEAN.

[Sup. t

give jurisdiction to the Federal court of a suit brought for that
purpose by the non-resident director and stockholder. The
three directors discussed the matter among themselves. The
president represents himself to have been very belligerent in
his disposition. According to his statement, he professed not
to want any legal proceedings taken. He proposed to settle
the matter by force, and if any man attempted to take the
property, to shoot him on the spot. His feelings on the subject must have been very intense, for more than two months
afterwards he testified under oath that he would "most assuredly" have shot any man who meddled with him "as quick
as wink;" as quick as he would have shot a burglar in his
house at midnight. Dean, the complainant, another director,
favored more pacific methods ; he desired legal proceedings to
be instituted. The third director, Meddaugh, was similarly
disposed. He was a member of the bar of Michigan, and acting
as one of the attorneys of the company. He favored legal
proceedings, but expressed a want of confidence in the local
tribunals of the State by reason of the then excited condition
of the public mind; he desired to get into the Federal court,
and so he resolved to object to a suit in the State courts. A
meeting of the directors was thereupon improvised in his
office to carry out the course resolved upon. Dean then asked
that the officers of the company be instructed to protect its
property and rights from the execution of the threat contained
in the repealing ordinance of the city, and.for that purpose to
bring suit in the proper court. The matter being discussed, it
was resolved, "That the company, convinced of the improbability of obtaining redress or justice in the local courts, which
would be its only recourse, in the present excited condition of
the public mind - the press of the city having, for some time
past, continually aggravated public feeling by exaggeration and
falsehood - cannot prudently enter into a litigation with the
city, and that no such attempt on its part would now be made."
Dean voted against the resolution, the other two directors in
favor of it. The resolution having passed, Dean, on the following day, commenced the present suit, alleging the refusal
of the directors to institute proceedings in the name of the
company. The bill was read in the presence of the three

Oct. 1882.]

DETROIT

v.

DEAN.

directors, and one of them, Meddaugb, acted as a solicitor in
the case.
It is impossible to read the testimony of the president contained in the record, with his hesitating and evasive answers to
the interrogatories of counsel, and not be convinced that the
refusal, which constituted the basis of the present suit, was
made for the express purpose of enabling a suit to be brought
in the Federal court, and that no such refusal would have been
given if that result had not been desired. It was an attempt
to get into the Federal court upon a pretence, that justice was
impossible in the State courts, owing to the excited condition
of the public mind. The only party who could seek redress in
a Federal court, by reason of his citizenship, was willing to
trust the local courts; .and if a determination had not existed
to force the controversy away from them, we have no doubt
that the other directors would readily have agreed with him.
The refusal to take legal proceedings in the local courts was a
mere contrivance, a pretence, the result of a collusive arrangement to create for one of the directors a fictitiou~s ground for
Federal jurisdiction. The case comes, therefore, within the
purview, if not the letter, of the provisions of sect. 5 of the -act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137, defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States. That section declares:
"That if, in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court or removed
from a State court to a Circuit Court of the United States, it
shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court, at any
time after such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that
such suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or
controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit
Court, or that the paxties to said suit have been improperly or
collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants,
for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable
under this act, the Circuit Court shall proceed no further
therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the court
from which it was removed, as justice may require."
A single stockholder in a corporation has undoubtedly the
same right to institute legal proceedings against the corporation
for the protection of his individual rights that a third party,
not a stockholder, possesses; but when he resorts to such pro-

MILLER V. LANCASTER BANK.

[Sup. t

ceedings, to protect, not simply such interests, but the property
and rights of the corporation against the action or threatened
action of third parties, thus assuming duties properly devolving
upon its directors, he must show a clear breach of duty on their
part in neglecting or refusing to act in the matter, amounting
to such grossly culpable conduct as would lead to irremediable
loss to him if he were not permitted to bring the matter before
the courts. And such neglect and refusal must not be simulated, but real and persisted in, after earnest efforts to overcome it. The opinion in the case of Hfawes v. Oakland is full
of instruction on this head, and to it we refer for a statement
of the law; we can add nothing to its cogent reasoning. 104
U. S. 450.
The decree of the court below must be reversed, and the case
remanded with directions to dismiss the bill, without prejudice
to a suit in the State courts; and it is
So ordered.

MILLER V. LANCASTER BANK.
Where a party sues out a writ of error to a State court, this court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment or the decree, although it be adverse to
the Federal right, if he set up and claimed the right, not for himself, but for a
party in whose title he had no interest.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of
the State of Kentucky.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. Richard T. Merrick and Mr. Martin T. Morris in support of the motion.
Mr. Philip Phillips and Mr. W. Rallett Phillips in opposi-

tion thereto.
MR. CHIF
court.

JUSTICE

WAITE delivered the opinion of the

From this record it appears that one S. W. Miller, being
insolvent, made an assignment of his property to M. J. Durham,
trustee, for the benefit of his creditors. The trustee afterwards

