ROGERS V. DURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

own citizens, or as you limit, or qualify, or impose restrictions
on their exercise, the same, neither more nor less, shall be the
measure of the rights of citizens of other States within your
jurisdiction."
It was never supposed that the section under consideration
conferred on Congress the power to enact a law which would
punish a private citizen for an invasion of the rights of his
fellow citizen, conferred by the State of which they were both
residents, on all its citizens alike.
We have, therefore, been unable to find any constitutional
authority for the enactment of sect. 5519 of the Revised Statutes. The decisions of this court above referred to leave no
constitutional ground for the act to stand on.
The point in reference to which the judges of the Circuit
Court were divided in opinion must, therefore, be decided
against the constitutionality of the law.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented on the question of jurisdic-

tion.

He expressed no opinion on the merits.

ROGERS v. DURANT.
1. The loss of a draft is not sufficiently proved, to support a suit in equity
thereon against the drawer or acceptor, by evidence that it was left with a
referee appointed by order of court to examine and report claims against
an estate in the hands of a receiver, and that unsuccessful inquiries for it
have been made of the referee, the receiver, and the attorney for the pres.
ent defendant in those proceedings, without evidence of any search in the
files of the court to which the report of the referee was returned, or any
application to that court to obtain the draft.
2. A decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing upon the merits a bill of which this
court on appeal holds that there is no jurisdiction in equity, will be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice
to an action at law, and with costs in the court below, and each party to
pay his own costs on the appeal.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1882.]

ROGERS V. DURANT.

i1r'. Lewis L. Coburn and Jr. Henry C. Whitney for the
appellant.
31fr. Charles B. Laurence for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, by which Rogers seeks to recover of
Durant and seven others, as copartners under the name of
James W. Davis & Associates, the amount due upon several
drafts, some drawn, and some accepted or promised to be accepted, by that firm, and all alleged to have been held by the
plaintiff and lost without his fault after maturity.
The defence of Durant is twofold: First, to the jurisdiction,
because there is no sufficient proof of the loss of the drafts;
second, to the merits, because he was never a member of the
firm of James W. Davis & Associates. The court below,
while inclining to the opinion that it had no jurisdiction, did
not decide the case upon that ground, but upon the merits, and
dismissed the bill generally.
The testimony introduced to show the loss of the drafts,
construing it most favorably for the plaintiff, proves no more
than this: In a former suit in the Supreme Court of New
York to wind up the affairs of the firms of James W. Davis
& Associates and of Davis, Sprague & Company, a receiver
was appointed, and the claims of creditors, including the plaintiff's, were presented to a referee appointed by the court, and
by him reported to the court, and a dividend ordered and paid
in part thereof. The drafts in question were handed by the
plaintiff to Steiger, his attorney in New York, to be filed
before the referee, and were so filed, and were afterwards delivered by the referee to the receiver; neither the plaintiff nor
Steiger had since seen them or known where they were; and
Steiger had applied for them to the receiver, to his clerk, to
the referee, and to Bell, Durant's attorney in New York, and
believed, without any f6undation beyond his own suspicion,
that they were in Bell's possession.
The original papers presented to the referee would properly
be returned with his report to the files of the court which
appointed him. Yet no search appears to have been made
in those files, nor any application presented to that court for

RoGERS v. DURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

the delivery of the drafts to the plaintiff or his attorney. The
plaintiff, having made no inquiry in the place in which the
drafts would be most likely to be found, utterly fails in his
attempt to prove their loss.
There being no sufficient evidence of loss, there can be no
doubt that the case is one within the exclusive jurisdiction of
a court of law; and it becomes unnecessary to consider the
varying decisions in England and in this country upon the
question under what circumstances a cburt of equity has jurisdiction of a suit upon a lost bill or note; or the voluminous
proofs contained in the record upon the question whether Durant was a member of the firm of James W. Davis & Associates, a question of which, for the reason already given, we
have no jurisdiction in this case, and which, being a pure
question of fact, can never be brought to this court in any
future action at law.
The decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the bill generally, might be considered a bar to an action at law, and should
therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions
to enter a decree dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction,
without prejudice to the right of the plaintiff to sue at law.
Hormburg v. Baker, 1 Pet. 232; Barney/v. Baltimore City, 6
Wall. 280; Kendig v. Dean, 97 U. S. 423. In accordance with
the spirit of the twenty-fourth general rule of this court, and
under the discretionary power therein reserved, costs should
not be allowed to the plaintiff, because, so far as concerns the
present suit, the decree is wholly against the relief that he seeks;
but the dismissal is to be with costs in the court below, and
each party is to pay his own costs on this appeal.
Decree aecordinglyq.

