Oct. 1882.]

THE "STERLING"

THE "STERLING"

AND THE

"EQUATOR."

TB:

"E QUATOR."

AND

647

1. A decree against two vessels at fault should be, not in solido for the full amount
of damages sustained by the libellant, but severally against each for onehalf of his damage and costs, any balance which he shall be unable to enforce against either vessel to be paid by the other or its stipulators, to the

extent of her stipulated value beyond the moiety due from her.
2. Inasmuch as the form of the decree was not in this case called to the attention

of the Circuit Court, the parties are requiredto pay their respective costs
in this court.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
AIr. J. Warren Coulston and 3t. William L. Putnam for the
appellant.
Mfr. Joseph P. Hornor and Mr. William S. Benedict for the
appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit in admiralty against the ship "Sterling"
and tow-boat " Equator," for damages sustained by the bark
"Sif" in a collision. Both the ship and tow-boat were found
to be in fault, and they were condemned in solido for the whole
amount of the loss. From a decree to that effect this appeal
was taken.
It is conceded that upon the facts found the owners of the
"Sif" are entitled to a decree against the ship and the towboat, as both were ii fault. The well-established rule in such
cases is to apportion the damages equally between the two
offending vessels, the right being reserved to the libellant to
collect the entire amount from either of them to the extent of
her stipulated value, in case of the inability of the other to
respond for her portion. The Washington and The Gregory,
9 Wall. 513; The Alabamna and The Gamecock, 92 U. S. 695;
Tie Virginia Ehrman and The Agnese, 97 id. 309; The City
of Hartford and The Unit, id. 323. As in this case the decree
was against both vessels for the full amount of the loss, it
should be modified so as to be against the " Sterling" and the

FITZPARTICK

v.

FLANNAGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

" Equator," and their respective stipulators, severally, each for
one-half of the entire damage and costs, any balance of such
half which the libellant shall not be able to enforce against
either vessel to be paid by the other vessel or her stipulators,
so far as her stipulated value extends. As it does not appear
from the record that the attention of the court below was
called to this objection to the form of the decree, each party
will be required to pay his own costs in this court.
-Decree reversed, and cause remanded with instructions to
enter a new decree in accordancewith this opinion, adding
interest to the date of such entry.

FITZPATRICK v.

FLANNAGAN.

I. Leave to amend the affidavit, by inserting a new ground for an attachment
sued out in Mississippi, is not the subject of a valid exception, it not
appearing that the defendant was thereby prejudiced.
2. Where a firm is dissolved by the death of one of its members, and no bill is
filed by his representatives, or by the firm creditors seeking the intervention
of a court of equity to wind up the business of the firm, marshal its
assets and apply them to the firm debts, the surviving partner may, by
paying his individual indebtedness with those assets, make a disposition
of them, which is not a fraud in law upon the firm creditors, nor, in the
absence of an actual intent to defraud, a just ground for suing out an
attachment under the statute of Mississippi.
3. Section 1420 of the Code of Mississippi of 1871, post, p. 658, did not forbid
an insolvent debtor to give a preference to one or more of his creditors, if
it were bonafide and with no intent to secure a benefit to himself.
4. A continued recognition of his liability, and his agreement to discharge it after
he has a full knowledge of all the facts in relation to which the alleged
false representations were made at the time of his original promise, estops
the party from setting them up as a defence to an action on that promise.
5. According to the practice of the Circuit Court in Mississippi, the judgment
sustaining the attachment and the personal final judgmpent on the merits
against the defendant are separate, and may be considered here separately
on a writ of error brought to review the latter judgment.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Alfred B. Pittman for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Jefferson Chandler and Hlr. William . Ingersoll for the
defendants in error.

