REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF THB

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1882.

PARKER V. MOnRRML.
An appeal will be dismissed where it does not appear by the record, or otherwise, that the value of the matter in dispute exceeds $5,000.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of West Virginia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M.. Gideon A. Camden in support of the motion.
Mr. D. D. Lord, contra.
MR. CmEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.

This is a motion to dismiss for the reason that it does not
appear in the record or by affidavits that the value of the
matter in dispute exceeds $5,000. The record shows that Willard Parker, Jr., the appellant, as the owner of one undivided
twentieth part of a large tract of land in West Virginia,
embracing within its boundaries several hundred thousand
acres, filed his bill in equity against Willard Parker, Sen., as
the owner of the remaining nineteen-twentieths, and Morrill,
the appellee, for a partition as between himself and Parker,
senior, and to remove a cloud upon the title to a part of the
tract caused by a claim set up by Morrill. Upon the bearing
the court below dismissed the bill as to Morrill, and from a
VOL. XVI.

1

PARKER V. MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

decree to that effect Parker, junior, took this appeal. Parker,
senior, did not appear as an actor in the court below, and has
not united in the appeal.
The lands claimed by Morrill are not described either in the
bill or in the answer of Morrill, otherwise than by reference
to certain patents under which he assumed to hold. These
patents covered between fifty and sixty thousand acres. In
one of the depositions it is shown that when the suit was
begun Morrill claimed about twenty-five thousand acres. The
value of the property is nowhere stated. The whole tract in
which Parker, junior, claimed his undivided interest included
very much more than the Morrill lands. On the 11th of January, 1854, this whole tract was conveyed to Peter Clark by
deed reciting a consideration of $3,090. Clark, on the 29th
of March, 1854, conveyed it to William W. Campbell by deed,
in which the consideration is stated to have been $8,000. On
the 5th of May, 1858, Campbell conveyed to Parker, senior,
for a nominal consideration, and on the 2d of November,
1872, Parker, senior, conveyed the one undivided twentieth to
Parker, junior, for $2,000. In his petition for this appeal, filed
Sept. 8, 1880, Parker, junior, states the value of the lands
claimed by Morrill to be over $2,000. Notice of the present
motion was served on the counsel for the appellant in May
last. The brief in support of the motion was filed here on the
6th of May. That of the appellant was filed on the 7th of
October. Notwithstanding the dismissal was claimed on account of the value of the matter in dispute, no attempt has
been made by the appellant to supply the defect in the record
by affidavits, as under our practice might have been done, but
to defeat the motion he relies entirely on the evidence of value
to be found in the record.
As the case stands, only the interest of Parker, junior, in
the lands is in question here. This is one undivided twentieth
part only. As Parker, senior, has not appealed, the value of
his interest in the property cannot be taken into the account.
The claim of Morrill is only for twenty-five thousand acres.
One-twentieth of this would be twelve hundred and fifty acres,
and certainly, in the light of the facts appearing all through
the record, we cannot say that their value exceeds $5,000.
Appeal dismissed.

