Oct. 1882.]

HEMINGWAY V. STANSELL.

399

alien. This makes it unnecessary to consider whether there
was in the suit such a separate controversy as would have entitled him to a removal if the law had been otherwise.
The order of the Circuit Court remanding the cause to the
State court is

Affirmed.

HIENINGWAY v. STANSELL.
1. A board of commissioners, one from each of five counties, having been incorporated by a State statute to construct and maintain levees, with authority
to make contracts for the doing of the work, and having made such a contract, and been sued in equity thereon, in the district in which the domicile
of the board was established by its act of incorporation, by persons residing
out of the district, a subsequent statute of the State abolished the offices of
the commissioners, and constituted the treasurer and the auditor of accounts
of the State ex offi.io the levee board, with the declared purpose "to substitute the treasurer and auditor in place of the board of levee commissioners
now in office;" and a bill of revivor was filed against them by leave of the
court. Held, that the suit might be prosecuted against the new board, although both the treasurer and the auditor resided out of the district; and
that an appeal from a final decree for the complainant might be taken by
the treasurer and auditor, describing themselves by their individual names,
and as such officers, and as ex officio the levee board.
2, A board of commissioners, authorized by statute to make contracts for the
building of levees, and to borrow money, issue bonds, and sell and negotiate
them in any market, but not at a greater rate of discount than ten per cent,
may make a contract for the work at certain prices by the cubic yard, payable in such bonds; and may afterwards amend that contract by inserting
"at the rate of ninety cents on the dollar," and issue bonds to the contractors accordingly, upon being satisfied that such was the agreement actually
made between the parties; although the work is actually done by sub-contractors for lower prices in cash.
3. A board of levee commissioners made a settlement with contractors employed
to do the work on certain levees, by which it paid them a certain sum and
took a receipt in full of all demands. The parties afterwards executed an
agreement under seal, reciting the settlement and receipt in full of all demands, a complaint of tile contractors that injustice had been done them in
that settlement, and the desire of the board to do full justice; and stipulating that two engineers, one designated by each party, should measure the
work done, and render to the parties an estimate of the amount due to the
contractors for such work according to the original contract; that if this
should differ from the amount already paid, the difference should be paid
or refunded accordingly; and that these two engineers and a third, to be
agreed on by them, should be arbitrators for the adjustment of all questions
of difference; that, in the adjustment of questions pertaining to the meas-

-400

HEMINGWAY V. STANSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

urement, the contractors should have the privilege of introducing all proper
evidence, and the board of rebutting that evidence; and that, before proceeding with tile measurement, the contractors should give written notice
to the board of the points to be proved and the character of the evidence to
be offered. The contractors thereupon gave notice of their intention to introduce proof of several matters, some of which did not concern the measurement; to which the engineer of the board objected; and the arbitration
fell through. Held, that the settlement and receipt bound the contractors
as an accord and satisfaction, and they could not maintain a suit upon the
original contract to recover further compensation for the work.

from the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

X.. H. P. Branh~am for the appellants.
1r. Henry T. Ellett for the appellee.

-

MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal by " William L. Hemingway, Treasurer of
the State of Mississippi, and Sylvester Gwinn, Auditor of said
State, and ex officio the Levee Board of Mississippi District
Number One," from a final decree of the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Mississippi upon a
bill in equity for the specific performance of a contract filed in
that court on the 23d of February, 1873, by Hiram A. Partee,
a citizen of Tennessee, and Jephthah W. Stansell, a citizen of
Arkansas,,copartners under the name of Partee & Stansell (of
whom the appellee is the survivor), against the Levee Board
of Mississippi District Number One, and the five persons constituting that board.
By an act of the legislature of the State of Mississippi of
March 17, 1871, entitled "An Act to redeem and protect from
overflow from the river Mississippi certain bottom lands herein
described," this board, consisting of commissioners to be appointed by the supervisors of Tunica and four other counties
respectively, was incorporated for the purpose of constructing,
repairing, and maintaining levees along a part of the Mississippi
River; its domicile was fixed at the county seat of Tunica
County, in the Northern District of Mississippi; and it was
authorized to appoint a secretary and treasurer, and to let out
and contract for the construction of the works, and to issue

Oct. 1882.]

O1EMINGWAY V. STANSELL.

negotiable bonds to the amount of $1,000,000, and to sell and
negotiate them in any market, but not at a greater rate of discount than ten per cent.
This suit was brought upon a contract made by the board
with the plaintiffs for the construction of certain levees. While
it was pending, on the 11th of April, 1876, the legislature of
Mississippi passed an act, entitled "An Act to abolish the
Levee Board of District Number One and to pay the debts of
said board;" and enacting that the offices of commissioners,
secretary, and treasurer of Levee District Number One, as existing under the statute of 1871, be abolished; and that the
Auditor of Public Accounts and the Treasurer of the State be
constituted and appointed the Levee Board of District Num
ber One, ex officio, and discharge all the duties of the Levee
Board and of the secretary and treasurer of the same; "it being the intent and purpose of this act to substitute the Auditor
of the State and the Treasurer thereof, ex officio, as such commissioners, secretary, and treasurer, in place and stead of the
Board of Levee Commissioners, secretary, and treasurer of
Levee District Number One, now in office;" and that "the
auditor and treasurer shall have full power to settle up, under
the laws now in force, the unfinished business of the said Levee
Board of District Number One, and to pay any outstanding
liabilities of the same in such funds as may be applicable to
the same."
The defendant thereupon moved to dismiss the bill, because
by this statute the levee board had been abolished, and was no
longer capable of suing or being sued. The court overruled
this motion, and allowed the plaintiffs to file a bill of revivor
against the auditor and treasurer (both of whom resided at
Jackson in the Southern District of Mississippi), as constituting the Levee Board of District Number One, and, after due
pleadings and proofs, entered the'final decree against the levee
board, from which this appeal is taken.
The appellee now moves to dismiss the appeal, because it is
the appeal of Hemingway and Gwinn only, and not of the levee
board. But we are of opinion that this motion, and the motion
made in the court below to dismiss the bill, are equally groundless.
VOL. XVI.

26

HEMINGWAY

V. STANSELL.

[Sup. Ct,

The statute of 1876, while it abolished the offices of the
commissioners who previously constituted the corporation 6f
the levee board, did not dissolve or extinguish the corporation,
but merely substituted the State Treasurer and the Auditor of
Accounts as the members of that corporation. The suit might
therefore be prosecuted against the levee board as a corporation, notwithstanding the change in its members; and a bill
of revivor having been allowed to be filed for that purpose, it
need not be considered whether any revivor was requisite.
The fact that -the new members reside in another district is
immaterial. A court which has once acquired jurisdiction of
a suit does not lose it by a change of domicile of the parties,
and may, when the suit is of a nature that survives, bring in
the representatives or successors of a party who has died or
ceased to exist, without regard to their domicile.
The levee board, being the defendant in the suit, might
appeal from the final decree; and the appeal taken by Hemingway and Gwinn, describing themselves not only by their
individual names and as treasurer and auditor respectively, but
also as ex officio the levee board, is the appeal of the board.
It follows that the motion to dismiss the bill because of the
passage of the statute of 1876 was rightly denied by the court
below; and that the motion to dismiss the appeal must be
overruled by this court.
The evidence shows that the board, under the authority conferred by its act of incorporation, advertised for written bids
for contracts to do the work; that the plaintiffs made a bid
accordingly for the work on certain parts of the levees at specified prices by the cubic yard, payable in bonds at ninety cents
to the dollar, or ten per cent discount; that this bid was accepted by the board, and on the 28th of September, 1871, a
contract in writing was signed by the parties, by which the
plaintiffs agreed to do the work according to the specifications,
and to the satisfaction and acceptance of the chief engineer of
the board; the board agreed to pay them in bonds the prices
named in the bid, four-fifths on monthly estimates by its engineer of the relative value of the work done, and the rest on
the final completion of the work, the engineer's acceptance
thereof, and estimate of the quantity, character, and value of

Oct. 1882.]

HEmINGWAY V. STANSELL.

the work done, and the plaintiffs' release under seal of. all demands arising under the contract; and it was mutually agreed
that the decision of the chief engineer should be final and conclusive in any dispute which might arise between the parties
to this contract. It further appears that afterwards, and to
carry out the intention of the parties at the time of signing the
contract, the board, at the plaintiffs' request, caused to be interlined therein, after the word "bonds," the words "at the
rate of ninety cents on the dollar;" and that monthly, during
the progress of the work, four-fifths of the engineer's estimates
of the amount of work done were paid for, at the prices stipulated in the contract, in bonds at that rate.
The board, in its answer and by a cross-bill, contended that
the plaintiffs had been largely overpaid, because the prices
agreed on greatly exceeded the prices at which the work could
be done, and was done by sub-contractors, for cash; and
because the issue of bonds at ninety cents on the dollar in
payment of those prices was in effect a negotiation of the
bonds at a greater rate of discount than ten per cent. But the
board had authority to make contracts, and consequently to
agree upon the compensation for the work; being authorized
to issue bonds, it might issue them directly to the plaintiffs;
and the prices agreed to be paid, as well as the rate at which
the bonds should be taken, corresponded to the original bid
made by the plaintiffs and accepted by the board, as well as to
the terms deliberately adopted in the formal contract. The
suggestion that this course was puisued with the purpose of
fraudulently evading the restriction of the statute is unsupported by proof; and there is no evidence that the funds necessary to repair the levees could have been obtained in any other
manner. This position of the levee board therefore cannot be
maintained, and to that extent the decree of the District Court
must be affirmed.
But the remaining question in the case presents greater difficulties. The facts, as disclosed by the record, appear to us to
be as follows: After the plaintiffs had completed the work, W. R. Kirkpatrick, the chief engineer of the board, who had superintended
the work, made a final estimate of its quantity, character, and

-

HEMINGWAY V. STANSELL.

[Sup.

.

value. " The board, being dissatisfied with his estimate, discharged him, and caused the work to be remeasured by
B. Mickle, a special engineer (afterwards appointed chief
engineer), whose estimates showed a much smaller sum to be
due to the plaintiffs. The board thereupon refused to pay the
amount due according to Kirkpatrick's estimates, and, after
some controversy and negotiation, settled the claim by paying
the plaintiffs $47,800, the amount found due by Mickle, and
the plaintiffs signed and gave them a receipt in these terms:
" Memphis, June 18, 1872. Received of A. R. Howe, Treasurer Mississippi Levee Board District Number One, forty-seveu
thousand eight hundred dollars on account of work on levee,
the same being in full of all demands to date."
The plaintiffs in their bill allege that this receipt was fraudulently and oppressively extorted by the levee board, and was
signed by the plaintiffs under protest. tut the only evidence
to support their allegation is the testimony of Stansell himself,
and he on cross-examination admitted that he did not know
much about the matter, as Partee attended to the money transactions of the firm; and his testimony is met and controlled
by the explicit denial in the answer of the board upon the oath
of two of its members, as well as by the recitals of an agreement under seal, made between the board of the first part and
the plaintiffs of the second part on the 4th of October, 1872,
the important portions of which are as follows: 11Whereas said
party of the first part have heretofore made full and complete
settlement for all work done on said levee by said party of the
second part, as evidenced by their receipt acknowledging the
same; and said party of the second part do now come forward
and complain that injustice was done them in said settlement;
and it being the desire of the party of the first part to do full
justice to all men, it is hereby agreed that the party of the
second part shall designate an engineer, who shall proceed with
the chief engineer of this board to measure all work done by
said party of the second part on said levee, and render to the
parties to this agreement an estimate of the amount due to the
party of the second part for such work, according to the contracts entered into for the completion of the same. And it is
further agreed that, should said estimate exceed the estimate

Oct. 1882.]

8HEMINGWAY V. STANSELL.

made by the special engineer of this board in the month of
June, 1872, the party of the first part shall pay to said Partee
and Stansell, party of the second part, the amount of such excess, and all the expenses of this measurement shall be borne
by the board. But if the said estimate shall be less than the
estimate of the said special engineer in June, 1872, then said
party of the second part shall refund to said party of the first
part the amount of such deficit, and pay all the expenses of
this measurement." "It is further agreed that the party of
the second part shall designate an engineer, which engineer
shall suggest a third engineer, who shall be acceptable to the
chief engineer of this board, and the said engineers so selected
shall, with the chief engineer of this board, constitute a board
of arbitrament for the adjustment of all questions of difference,
the agreement of any two to be final. In the adjustment of
questions pertaining to this measurement, the contractors shall
have the privilege of introducing all proper evidence, oral or
written, of notes, profiles, or other evidence ; which testimony
may be rebutted by the president of the board. This testimony being allowed to give the engineer information as to the
fills or any other fact not perceptible to the engineers; to which
testimony the engineers shall give such weight as they may
think the same entitled to receive."
On the 12th of December, 1872, the parties signed a further.
agreement, stating that Mickle on the part of the levee board,
George B. Fleece on the part of the plaintiffs, and R. L. Cobb,
designated by Fleece with the consent of Mickle, constitute
the board of arbitrament referred to in the agreement of Oct.
4, 1872; and establishing rules to govern that board in adjusting all matterb brought before them, one of which rules
was as follows: "Inasmuch as by the terms of said agreement
the first party can only rebut the testimony introduced- by the
second party, it is agreed that the said second party shall, before
further proceeding with the measurement, notify the first party
in writing what points they expect to prove and the character
of the evidence proposed, so that the said first party may be
ready with the rebutting evidence."
On the same day, the plaintiffs gave notice in writing to the
levee board that they would introduce proof before the board

HEMINGWAY v. STANSELL.

[Sup. CL.

of arbitration upon twelve different matters, including these
three: "4th. The clause in the contract touching shrinkage,
its meaning, and the adjudication of that question by the chief
engineer of your board prior to and about simultaneous with
the signing of the original contract." " 9th. The d.amage done
to us by the repeated refinishing of work under orders of your
engineers." "11th. The delay of a final estimate, of various
payments, and the damage to us arising therefrom."
On the next day, Mickle wrote a letter to Fleece, beginning
thus: "In arranging the preliminaries to our organization as
a board of arbitrament on the question of difference between
the levee board of this district and Messrs. Partee and Stansell, I am notified that claims will be made and testimony
offered clearly in contravention of the terms of the agreement
from which our authority is to emanate, and as such proceeding would render our decision unsatisfactory and void, I cannot
proceed further in the matter unless it is distinctly understood
that the following provisions of the contracts and agreements
entered into by the said parties, and on which our authority is
understood to be based, shall be strictly observed." He proceeded to point out that the agreement of Oct. 4, 1872, did not
permit any evidence to be introduced except in relation to the
measurement of levees; and also stated the substance of the
following provisions in the specifications annexed to the original contract: "Nothing will be paid for settling, but its cost
will be included in the price paid for the levee, as estimated
up to true grade. If the levee be found deficient in height,
slopes, or base, or not to have the full settling on top and
slopes, the contractor must go over it immediately and correct
all deficiencies, when the engineer in charge will run a testlevel over it to see that all is right." " All damage or injury
to the work, resulting from flood or other cause, shall be sustained by the contractor until finished and received by the
chief engineer; and no work shall be received until fully and
completely finished in accordance with the above specifications."
To this letter Fleece immediately replied, contending that
the board of arbitrament was already organized, and declining
to discuss in advance any point likely to come before it. A

Oct. 1882.]

HEIMINGWAY V. STANSELL.

correspondence of six weeks ensued between Mickle and Fleece,
in the course of which, after much dispute upon the question
whether Cobb bad been in due form accepted as one of the
arbitrators, Fleece designated him anew in writing. Mickle
declined to accept him, Fleece offered Mickle the choice of
either of several other persons in Cobb's stead, and the correspondence ended in Mickle's insisting on the objections made in
his letter of Dec. 13, 1872, and in the plaintiffs' abandoning
the arbitration.
The court below was of opinion that the receipt in full of
the 18th of June had been wholly set aside by the agreement
of the 4th of October, and that the arbitration under this agreement had failed by the fault of the defendant; and entered
a decree for the plaintiffs according to the final estimate of
Kirkpatrick.
We cannot concur either in the reasons or in the result. In
our view, the effect of the agreement of the 4th of October,
1872, was to recognize that there had been a settlement in full
between the parties, of the amount due from the levee board
to the plaintiffs, which bound both parties as an accord and
satisfaction ; and to agree to open that settlement to this extent only: Three engineers, to be appointed as therein provided, should measure the work done by the plantiffs. If their
estimate should differ from the estimate of Mickle, according
to which the settlement had been made, the difference should
b paid by the board or refunded by the plaintiffs. The stipulation that the three engineers should." constitute a board of
arbitrament for the adjustment of all questions of difference"
was necessarily limited to questions of difference in relation to
the subject to be referred to them. If such measurement by
the arbitrators should not modify the estimate of work done,
or if the arbitration should fail without fault of the levee
board, the settlement stood.
The evidence, the substance of which is above recited, satisfies us that the arbitration did not fail by any fault on the
part of the levee board, but by reason of the persistent attempts
of the plaintiffs, against the steady opposition of the levee
board, to introduce evidence before the board of arbitrament,
not limited to the question of measurement, which was the

HODGES V. EASTON.

[Sup. Ct.

only matter to be submitted to this board, but touching other
matters which bad been concluded by the contracts executed
and the settlement made between the parties.
The result is, that the decree below must be reversed, and
the case remanded with directions to enter a decree
.Dismissingthe hill.

HODGES V. EASTON.
Certain questions, covering only a part of the material issues of fact, were propounded to the jury, who returned them with the answers thereto, as a special
verdict. The judgment against the defendant recites that it was rendered
"upon the special verdict of the jury, and facts conceded or not disputed
upon the trial." The record does not disclose the evidence, and no general
verdict was rendered. Held, that the judgment, not being sustained by the
special verdict, must be reversed and a new trial ordered.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Luther ,S. Dixon for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Henry I. Finch for the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit by Easton and Bigelow against Hodges and
Smith to recover damages for the alleged conversion of certain
wheat, stored, in separate bins, in the warehouse of William
H. Valleau, in Decorah, Iowa.
The complaint contains two counts. The first proceeds
upon the ground that the wheat, when so converted, was the
property of the plaintiffs. The second avers that, during the
winter and spring of 1876, the First National Bank of Decorah, Iowa, discounted notes and drafts for, and loaned money
to, said Valleau, upon the security of a large quantity of wheat
delivered to the bank, of which he, Valleau, was then the
owner and had the possession, and which was stored, in separate bins, in a warehouse in Decorah, Iowa; that thereby
the wheat became the property of the bank; that subse-

