Oct. 1882.]

THE "NORTH

STAR."

THE "NORTH STAR."
1. In cases of collision, where both vessels were in fault, the maritime rule is to
divide the entire damage equally between them, and to decree half the difference between their respective losses in favor of the one that suffered
most, so as to equalize the burden.
2. The obligation to pay that difference is the legal liability arising from the
transaction.
3. The practice, which obtains in England. of decreeing to eabh party half his
damage against the other party, thus necessitating two decrees, is only an
indirect way of getting at the true result, and grows out of the technical
formalities of the pleadings, and the supposed incongruity -of giving affirmative relief to a respondent.
4. Semble, that there is no good reason why, in such cases, the respondent, if he
claims it in his answer, should not have the benefit of a set-off or recoupment of the damage which he sustained, at least to the extent of that done
to the libellants.
5. If both parties file libels, the courts of the United States have the power
to consolidate the suits, prescribe one proceeding, and pronounce one decree for one-half of the difference of the damage suffered by the two
vessels.
6. The statute of limited liability is not to be applied in such a case, until the
balance of damage has been struck; and then the party against whom the
decree passes may, if otherwise entitled to it, have the benefit of the statute
in respect of the balance which he is decreed to pay. The decision to the
contrary in Chapman v. Royal Netherlands Steam Navigation Co., 4 P. D. 157,
examined and disapproved. ESee Appendix, p. 705.]
7. A collision occurred at sea, in the night, between the steamers W. and N., pursuing nearly opposite courses. W. was sunk, and N. much damaged. Both
were held to have been ,in fault. Crbss-actions were brought and heard
for
together, and one decree was made, being in favor of the owners of W.V.
one-half the difference of damage sustained by the two vessels, that of W.
being the greater. This decree was affirmed, and both parties appealed
therefrom. The owners of W. then claimed under the limited liability act
entire exoneration from liability, and a decree for half of their damage,
without deducting the damage of N. Held, that the claim must be disallowed, because that act can only be applied to the balance decreed to be
paid, and that was in favor of the owners of W.
8. Qwere, Can such a claim, if there were any ground therefor, be allowed in
favor of a party who does not set it up in his pleadings.

APPEAIs from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William Allen Butler for the "North Star."
.r. .Robert D. Benedict, contra.
VOL. XVi.

2

THE "NORTH

STAR."

[Sup. at.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arose out of a collision off the Jersey shore, south
of Sandy Hook, on the evening of the 9th of February, 1863,
between two steamships, the "Ella Warley," bound from New
York to New Orleans, and the "North Star," bound from Key
West to New York. The former was struck about midships,
and was sunk and lost; and the" North Star" was considerably
damaged. The owners of the "Ella Warley" libelled the
"North Star," and the owners of the latter filed a cross-libel in
yersonam against the owners of the " Ella Warley." The suits
were tried together, and the District Court held the "Ella
Warley" alone in fault, and rendered a decree accordingly.
The Circuit Court held both vessels in fault, and rendered a decree in favor of the owners of the "Ella Warley" for so much
of their damage a exceeded one-half of the aggregate damage
sustained by both vessels. This was the proper decree to make
if the conclusion reached, as to both vessels being in fault, was
correct, unless the question arising on the limited liability act,
hereafter discussed, required a different decree. Each vessel
being liable for half the damage done to both, if one suffered
more than the other, the difference should be equally divided,
and the one which suffered least should be decreed to pay onehalf of such difference to the one which suffered most, so as to
equalize the burden.
Since both of the courts below held the "Ella Warley" to be
in fault, we would not disturb this decision without preponderating evidence against it; and such evidence we do not
find. On the contrary, we think that the whole evidence
taken together sustains the conclusion reached.
The vessels were approaching each other in contrary directions, nearly head on, one going down the coast, the other
coming up, and saw each other's mast-head lights when eight
or ten miles apart. The "Ella Warley," instead of porting her
helm according to the rule, starboarded it in order to pass outside. This was evidently the first cause of the disaster; for,
as the "North Star" obeyed the rule, it brought the vessels directly together. It is also obvious that the persons in charge
of the " Ella Warley" did not keep a sufficient lookout; for they
allege that they only saw the green light of the "North Star"

Oct. 1882.]

THE "NORTH

STAR."

until the instant before the collision; whilst it is demonstrable, both from the diagram produced on the part of the "Ella
Warley," and from the courses which the two vessels must have
pursued, that after they were near enough to discern their
respective side lights, the red light of the "North Star" was
exposed to the view of the "Ella Warley" during the entire
approach, and must have been seen by her men if they had
exercised the least diligence. One of the grounds of complaint
against the " North Star" is, that her lights were not properly
screened, and could be seen across her bow. This only makes
it the more certain that, from the relative position of the vessels, her red light must have been visible. It is impossible
that it was hidden from view up to the time immediately preceding the collision.
As to the question whether the" North Star" was also in fault,
we agree with the Circuit Court that she was. The rules of
navigation in force at the time required that the side lights of
steamers navigating the sea, bays, &c., should be fitted with
in-board screens of at least six feet in length (clear of the lantern), to prevent them from being seen across the bow; and to
be placed in a fore and aft line with the inner edge of the side
lights, and in contact therewith. 1 Parsons's Maritime Law,
679, ed. 1859. In flat defiance of this rule the screens of the
"North Star" did not project two inches forward of the bull'seye of the lights, so that the lights could be seen two or three
points across the bow. This was undoubtedly one reason why
the green light of the "North Star" caught the eye of the mate
and others on board of the "Ella Warley" so readily as it did,
and, indeed, goes to some extent to mitigate their negligence
in not discerning the red light. This was clearly a fault on
the part of the "North Star," and one that probably contributed to the accident. We think, therefore, that both parties
were in fault.
The counsel for the owners of the "Ella Warley" now, for the
first time, raise a question upon the statute limiting the liability of ship-owners. They contend that as the "Ella Warley "
was a total loss, the owners are not liable to the owners of the
" North Star" at all, not even to have the balance of damage
struck between the two vessels; but that the half of their

THE " NORTH STAR."

[Sup. Ct.

damage must be paid in full, without any deduction for the
half of the damage sustained by the " North Star." This proposition is so startling that the reasoning employed to support it
should be scrutinized with some care before yielding to its
force.
The rule of admiralty in collision cases, as we understand
it, is that, where both vessels are in fault, they must bear the
damage in equal parts, -the one suffering least being decreed
to pay to the other the amount necessary to make them equal,
which amount, of course, is one-half of the difference between
the respective losses sustained. When this resulting liability
of one party to the other has been ascertained, then, and not
before, would seem to be the proper time to apply the rule of
limited responsibility, if the party decreed to pay is entitled
to it. It will enable him to avoid payment pro tanto of the
balance found against him. In this case the duty of payment
fell upon the "North Star," the owners of which have not set
up any claim to a limit of responsibility. This, as it seems to
us, ends the matter. There is no room for the operation of
the rule.
The contrary view is based on the idea that, theoretically,
(supposing both vessels in fault) the owners of the one are
liable to the owners of the other for one-half of the damage
sustained by the latter; and, vice versa, that the owners of
the latter are liable to those of the former for one-half of the
damage sustained by her. This, it seems to us, is not a true
account of the legal relations of the parties. It is never so
expressed in the books on maritime law. On the contrary,
the almost invariable mode of statement is, that the joint damage is equally divided between the parties; or (as in some
authorities), it is spoken of as a case of average. Thus, Lord
Stowell says: "A misfortune of this kind may arise where
both parties are to blame, where there has been want of due
diligence or of skill on both sides; in such a case, the rule of
law is, that the loss must be apportioned between them, as
having been occasioned by the fault of both of them." Wood.
rop-Sims, 2 Dods. 83. This statement of the law was adopted
in the text of Abbott on Shipping, pt. iii. c. 1, sect. 2. It is
also adopted by Mr. Bell in his Commentaries on the Laws of

Oct. 1882.]

THE "NORTH

STAR."

Scotland, vol. i. 580, 581, who remarks: "By the maritime
law this is a case of average loss or contribution, in which
both ships are to be taken into the reckoning, so as to divide
the loss." It is also adopted in the later text-writers. See
Maclachlan on Merchant Shipping, 274. In Hopkins on Average, p. 189, it is stated thus: "If, as the result of cross-actions
in admiralty, both vessels be found in fault, the rule of the
court is, to add the damages, losses, and costs of the two ships
together, and to divide the joint sum in moieties, and decree
each vessel to bear an equal portion."
If we go back to the text of the law, in the Rules of Oleron,
followed in the laws of Wisbuy and other laws, we find it
expressed in substantially the same manner. The case is supposed of a ship coming into port negligently managed, and
striking a vessel at anchor in an improper position, so that
both are in fault and both are damaged. The Rule says: "The
damage ought to be appraised and divided half and half between the two ships, and the wines that are in the two ships
ought to divide the damage between the merchants." 1 Pardessus, Collection de Lois Maritime, 334; Cleirac, Us et Coutume de la Mer, 55; Sea Laws, 141; 1 Peter's Admiralty
Decisions, App. xxiii.
In Jacobsen's Laws of the Sea it is said: "If the damage is
done reciprocally, such damage is apportioned in common between the parties." The French Ordinance of 1681 expresses
the rule in exactly the same way: "The damage shall be paid
equally by the ships which have caused it and suffered it."
Valin, 1. iii. tit. vii. art. 10. On this, Valin remarks: "Whenever damage by collision is adjudged common average between the two ships, the decree is that the costs of suit and
the appraisement of the damage shall be equally borne in
common, to effect which they are made into one mass with a
calculation of the average." Emerigon, who had great experience as an admiralty lawyer and judge, says, upon the same
article: "The damages sustained by both ships are appraised
and made into one mass, which is equally divided." Assurances, c. 12, sect. 14, § 3. Boulay-Paty, commenting on the
Code de Commerce, art. 407, which relates to the same subject,
says: "We conclude, then, that, after due regard is had to the

THE "NORTH

STAR."

[Sup. Ct.

character of the damaged parts of each ship, the injury and
damage which they have sustained and the appraisal thereof.
being added together in a single mass, must be divided so as
to be equally borne by each of the ships which have been
struck." Droit Commercial, vol. iv. 497.
In this country the same mode of expressing the law has
always prevailed. The first case in which the question came
before this court was that of The Catharine v. -Dickinson,
17 How. 170, in which both vessels were adjudged to have
been in fault; and the court, by Justice Nelson, adopted the
admiralty rule as it had been administered in the District
and Circuit Courts. Justice Nelson said: "The question, we
believe, has never until now come distinctly before this court
for decision. The rule that prevails in the District and Circuit Courts, we understand, has been to divide the loss;" and
he cites the case of The 1?ival, decided by Judge Sprague
(Sprague's Decisions, 160), and the leading English decisions
on the subject. Subsequent decisions have invariably used the
same language. Owners of the James Gray v. Owners of the
John Fraser, 21 How. 184; The Washington and The Gregory, 9 Wall. 513; The Sapphire, 11 id. 164; s. c. 18 id.
51, 56; The Alabama and The Gamecock, 92 U. S. 695; The
Atlas, 93 id. 302, 313; 3 Kent, Com. 231.
These authorities conclusively show that, according to the
general maritime law, in cases of collision occurring by the
fault of both parties, the entire damage to both ships is added
together in one common mass and equally divided between
them, and thereupon arises a liability of one party to pay to
the other such sum as is necessary to equalize the burden.
This is the rule of mutual liability between the parties.
But when claims are prosecuted judicially, the courts regard
the pleadings, and the English courts are very strict in holding
the parties to their allegations, and in refusing relief unless it
is sought in a direct mode. If only one party sues, and the
other merely defends the suit, and upon the proofs it appears
that both parties are in fault, the court declares this fact in the
decree, and decrees to the libellant one-half of the damage sustained by him, - the damage sustained by the respondent not
being regarded as the subject of investigation determinable in

Oct. 1882.]

THE "NORTH

STAR."

that suit. This technical result of the form of proceeding and
pleadings, in which the respondent suffers himself to be placed
in a position of disadvantage, has led to the erroneous notion
that each party is entitled by the law to be paid one-half of
his damage by the other party; and that each claim is independent of the other. But where both parties file libels, as
they are entitled to do, although, to conform to the pleadings,
a decree may be rendered in each suit in favor of the libellant
for one-half of his damage, even the English courts will not
allow two executions, but will grant a monition in favor of that
party who has sustained most damage for the balance necessary
to make the division of damages equal. This is an awkward
way of arriving at the result contemplated by the law. It may
have its conveniences in some cases, as where the innocent
owners of cargo are the libellants, for they are not responsible for any part of the loss. But as between the ship-owners
themselves it involves an apparatus of two distinct suits to get
at one result, when one suit, or two suits consolidated together,
would be in every respect more convenient. The difficulty is
obviated in England, to a certain extent, where each party has
brought suit, by directing, with the assent of the parties, that
the proceedings shall be conducted together so as to save the
expense of a double investigation.
To show the difficulties under which the English admiralty
courts have labored, in seeking to do complete justice, one or
two cases may be referred to. In The Seringapatam,reported
in 2 W. Rob. 506, and 3 id. 38, a collision had occurred
between that ship and the Danish ship "Harriet," by which
the latter was sunk, with a loss of ship and cargo. A libel
was filed by the owners of the "Harriet" and cargo against
the " Seringapatam," and an appearance was entered. A
cross-libel was also filed; but as the owners of the "Harriet"
resided abroad, no process could be served, and no appearance
was entered, and the suit was discontinued. A decree was
made in the original suit, declaring that both parties were in
fault, and that the damage should be equally borne by them,
and condemning the respondents to pay a moiety of the damages suffered by the "Harriet" and her cargo. After an appeal and affirmance of the decree, motion was made in behalf

THE "NORTH

STAR."

[Sup. Ct.

of the owners of the "Seringapatam," praying that the court,
in estimating the compensation due to the owners of the "Harriet," would direct the registrar to ascertain and deduct therefrom a moiety of the damage sustained by the "Seringapatam."
But it was objected that the owners of the latter were only
defendants, and no prayer for compensation was made in their
behalf, and none could be allowed. Dr. Lushington said: "If
the two actions had been going on according to the ordinary
usage and practice in these cases, the sentence of the court
would have attached to both vessels, and the court would have
decreed a joint reference to ascertain the amount of the total
damage and would have directed the said damage, with the
costs, to be equally divided between the respective owners.
The cross-action, however, having been abandoned, the court
made its decree for a moiety of the damage done to the ' Harriet,' and this decree has been affirmed by the Privy Council."
Then, after showing that the appeal and affirmance would not
stand in the way of doing justice, he adds: "I do not exactly
see how I can deal with the second suit, which has been abandoned, as an existing suit, and say to the owners of the ' Seringapatam,' you shall have the benefit of a decree which, in
point of fact, has never been pronounced in their favor. The
difficulty, it is true, is created by the peculiar circumstances of
the case itself; and if I could have foreseen the result of the
'proceedings before the Trinity Masters, I would certainly have
made some arrangements at the time to meet the circumstances
of the case; for I never will be induced, unless compelled by
law, to further the commission of an injustice towards either
party upon a mere matter of form. Taking all the circumstances of the case into my consideration, the course I shall
adopt is this, - I shall not depart from my original decree, but
shall confine the reference to the amount of the compensation
to which the owners of the ' Harriet' are entitled. At the
sane time, I shall not permit the full amount of that compensation to be paid to them unless they submit to the deduction
of a moiety of the damages sustained by the owners of the
'Seringapatam.'"
In the case of The Calypso, Swab. 28, a collision had occurred with the "Equivalent."
The owners of the "Calypso"

Oct. 1882.]

THE "NORTH

STAR."

brought suit, and the decree was that both parties were in fault,
and pronounced for half the "Calypso's" damage. Then the
owners of the "Equivalent" sued, and the owners of the "Calypso" presented a petition that the suit should be dismissed
because of the former adjudication. Dr. Lushington declined to
dismiss, but without deciding whether the matter might not be
set up as a defence, and intimated that it was not commendable to wait the result of one action before bringing a crossaction, and he refused costs. He said: " The usual practice is,
that when one vessel has been proceeded against in a cause of
collision, and the owners of the other think they have any chance
of obtaining a decree in their favor to enter a cross-action, and
it is generally agreed between the practitioners that the decision in the one case shall govern the decision in the other. I
am not aware that it is in the power of the court, if the proctors were not consenting to such an agreement, to say that both
actions should be governed by the one as a matter of right."
These cases serve to show how, by reason of the technicalities of procedure, and the clumsiness of the process used for
attaining the correct result, the original maritime rule, though
in itself simple and easy of application, became involved and
obscured.
Thus, where the Merchant Shipping Act declared that if certain rules of navigation were infringed the owner should not
recover for any damage sustained in a collision, it was held
that he should not have the benefit of average.
Mhe Aurora,
Lush. Adm. 327. And where the same act exempted the owner
from responsibility for the acts of a compulsory pilot, it was
held that he should not be subject to average, though entitlef
to recover half of his own loss from the other vessel in fault.
Mhe Montreal, 17 Jur. 538; s. o. 24 Eng. L. & E. Rep. 580.
These decisions were contrary to the maritime rule, though
perhaps, in the former case, the words of the statute required
the construction given to it. See 1 Parsons's Shipping and
Adm. 596 ; 2 id. 115-117.
A like departure from the maritime rule, we think, was
made in the late case of Chapman v. Royal Netherlands Steam
Navigation Co., 4 P. D. 157, which is much relied on by the
counsel of the "Ella Warley." In that case a collision occurred
between the "Savernake," owned by Chapman & Co., and the

THE "NORTH

STAR."

[Sup. Ct.

"Vesuvius," owned by The Netherlands Company, by which the
"Vesuvius" was sunk, with a total loss of ship and cargo, valued
at £28,000, and the "Savernake" was damaged £4,000. The
owners of the "Vesuvius" brought suit, and the owners of the
"Savernake" put in a counterclaim, the substitute created by the
late judicature act, for the old cross-action. Both parties being
declared in fault, a reference was made to the registrar to ascertain the damages of the various parties. At this point, the
owners of the "Savernake" fied a bill in equity to obtain the
benefit of limited liability, proffering £5,064 as the value of
their ship at £8 per ton; and obtained a decree for paying into
court that fund with interest. The question then arose as to
the disposition of this fund, and for what amount each party
in interest should be permitted to prove for dividend. Sir
George Jessel, Master of the Rolls, decided that the owners of
the cargo of the "Vesuvius" and her master and crew were entitled to prove for half of their loss. As to the owners of the
ship his decision was that the proper amount to be proved was
the half of her value less the half of the loss sustained by the
"Savernake," according to the maritime rule as before explained.
The owners of the "Savernake" appealed, and contended that
their claim for a moiety, of damage sustained by them (which
was £2,000), should stand good against the owners of the "Vesuvius" absolutely, and should not be deducted from the moiety
of loss sustained by the " Vesuvius," but that the owners of the
latter should prove against the fund for their entire moiety of
loss without deduction. This would have the effect of enabling them to set off the £2,000 against any dividend which
fnight be awarded to the owners of the "Vesuvius," and would
enable them to get back so much of the amount paid into court.
The Master of the Rolls had considered this a preposterous
claim, and contrary to the meaning of the maritime rule. But
the majority of the Lords Justices, Baggallay and Cotton,
against the opinion of Lord Justice Brett, reversed the decision, and decreed in the manner contended for by the appellants. We have carefully considered the reasons given by the
various judges, and are unable to avoid the conclusion that the
Master of the Rolls and Lord Justice Brett took the proper
view of the subject.
In this country the courts of the United States are not sub-

Oct. 1882.]

THE " NORTH STAR."

ject to the same disabilities which embarrass the proceedings of
the English courts. By the act of Congress of July 22, 1813,
c.14, Rev. Stat., sect. 921, it is enacted that "where causes of a
like nature, or relative to the same question, are pending before
a court of the United States, the court may make such orders
and rules concerning proceedings therein as may be conformable to the usages of courts for avoiding unnecessary costs or
delay in the administration of justice, and may consolidate
said causes when it appears reasonable to do so." The power
of consolidation here given enables the District Courts sitting
in admiralty to provide for cases of the kind under consideration in a manner adapted to the ends of justice and the exact
rights of the parties. We understand that it is freely exercised by them. At all events, it clothes them with the necessary authority, in cases of collision, to combine the suits arising
thereon into a single proceeding, and where both parties are
found to be in fault, to make a single decree (as was done in
this case), in accordance with their rights and obligations as
resulting from the law. And even where no cross-libel is filed,
if the respondents in their answer allege damage sustained by
them in the collision, and charge fault against the vessel of the
libellants, and pray a set-off or recoupment, in case they should
themselves be held to be in fault, we see no good reason why
they should not have the benefit of average afforded by the
law, at least to the extent of the claim of the libellants. This
would be more in accord with the liberal spirit in which the
rules of pleading are administered in this country, than a rigid
adherence to the English practice would admit of. In !lVne
Sappdre, 18 Wall. 51, 56, *Mr. Justice Strong, delivering
the opinion of this court, observed: "We do not say that a
cross-libel is always necessary in a case of collision, in order
to enable claimants of an offending vessel to set off, or recoup,
the damages sustained by such vessels, if both be found in
fault. It may, however, well be questioned whether it ought
not to appear in the answer that there were such damages."
As it nowhere appeared by the pleadings in that case that the
respondents had sustained any damage, it was held that they
had waived any claim for such damage. The suggestion of
Justice Strong, however, as to the non-necessity of a crosslibel is a very pregnant one.

THE 1NORTH STAR."

[Sup. Ct.

But waiving further discussion as to the proper, or admissible, mode of pleading,-for the respondents in this case did
file a cross-libel, - it is sufficient to say that the forms and
modes of proceeding in the courts of the United States are
not such as to interpose any serious difficulties in the way of
carrying out the simple rule of the maritime law with regard
to averaging the damages occasioned by a collision where both
vessels are in fault. And if they were, it would not alter the
relative rights of the parties as settled by that law. We have
referred to the embarrassments caused by the technical rules
of procedure in the English courts for the purpose of accounting for their apparent departure from the maritime rule of
liability in some cases.
In conclusion, it is proper to remark that the British statutes
on the subject of limited responsibility of ship-owners, as well
as those which regulate the forms of proceeding, are different
from ours. The rule of limitation as administered by us is
much more liberal to the ship-owners than the English rule.
We only make them liable, when free from personal fault, for
the value of their ship after the collision, so that if the ship is
lost, their further liability is extinguished; whilst in England
it is maintained to the extent of £8 per ton, and in some cases
£15 per ton, of their ship's .measurement. To apply to our
law the rule of construction which was given by the Lords
Justices in the case of Chapmanv. The Netherlands Company
would often result, and would in this case result, in positive
injustice. It would enable the owners of the "Ella Warley"
to obtain full compensation for a moiety of their loss, whilst
the owners of the "North Star'" would have to sustain both
their own entire loss and half of that of the owners of the
"Ella Warley," whilst both vessels were alike to blame for
the collision. A rule which leads to such results cannot be
a sound one.
Applying to the present case the maritime rule as we understand it, it being ascertained that both parties were in fault,
the damage done to both vessels should have been added to.
getber in one mass or sum, and equally divided, and a decree
should have been pronounced in favor of the owners of the
"Ella Warley" (which suffered most) against those of the
"North Star" (which suffered least) for half the difference

Oct. 1882.]

THE "N ORTH STAR."

between the amounts of their respective losses; for the "Ella
Warley" by her loss discharged her portion of the common
burden, and so much more as the amount that would thus be
decreed in her favor. Her delivery to the waves was tantamount to her surrender into court in case she had survived.
It extinguished the personal liability of her owners by the
mer- operation of the maritime rule itself. As there was no
decree against her owners for the payment of money, there
was no room for the application in their favor of the statute
of limited liability. The owners of the " North Star" do not
claim the benefit of the law, and probably could not, because
the fault of that ship lay in her original construction, and was
attributable to the owners themselves. So that, in fact, the
question of limited liability had no application to the case.
At the same time it is proper to say, that it is at least questionable whether the benefit of the statute can be accorded to
any ship-owner or owners, in the absence of any claim therefor
in the pleadings. Such claim must always be based on the
collateral fact that the loss or damage was "occasioned or
incurred without the privity or knowledge of such owner or
owners," Rev. Stat., sect. 4283; and it would seem that an
allegation of that fact should somewhere appear in the pleadings. As no such allegation is made and no claim of the kind
is set up by the owners of the "Ella Warley," it would be
exercising a greater latitude of indulgence to allow it to be
set up now, than has ever been asked of this court before.
Nevertheless, as the time within which a party may be allowed
to institute supplemental proceedings for obtaining the benefit
of the law has never been precisely defined, we have deemed
it best to decide the case upon the rights of the parties on the
merits, in order to save further litigation and expense.
Since, therefore, the decree of the Circuit Court was made
in precise conformity with the views which we have expressed,
it must be affirmed with interest from its date, but inasmuch
as both parties have appealed from the decree upon grounds
which have not been sustained, each party should pay their
own costs on this appeal. The cause must be remitted to the
Circuit Court for such further proceedings as may be in accordance with law; and it is
So ordered.

