Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. HARRIS.

the general language of the repealing clause, and the enumeration of the provisions of acts excepted from it, we are forced to
conclude that it was the intention of Congress to put an end,
so far as the free list in the fifth section of the act of 1872 is
concerned, to the operation of the discriminating act of 1864."
It is only necessary to observe that the act of July 14, 1870,
c. 255, on which the defendants in error rely in respect to the
duty on teas, contained no such repealing clause. We do not
see, therefore, that Gautier v. Arthur contravenes the conclusion to which we have come.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to
award a new trial.

UNITED

STATES V. HARRIS.

1. The omission to state, in the certificate of division of opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court in a criminal proceeding, that the point of difference is
certified "upon the request of either party pr their counsel," is not fatal to
the jurisdiction of this court where such request can be fairly inferred.
2. Section 5519 of the Revised Statutes (post, p. 632) is unconstitutional.

ON a certificate of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Tennessee.
At the November Term, 1876, of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Tennessee an indictment, based on sect. 5519 of the Revised Statutes, was returned
by the grand jury against one R. G. Harris and nineteen others.
The indictment contained four counts. The first count charged
as follows: "That R. G. Harris" (and nineteen others, naming them), "yeomen, of the county of Crockett, in the State of
Tennessee, and all late of the county and district aforesaid, on,
to wit, the fourteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-six, in the county of
Crockett, in said State and district, and within the jurisdiction
of this court, unlawfully, with force and arms, did conspire together with certain other persons whose names are to the grand
jurors aforesaid unknown, then and there, for the purpose of

UNITED STATES V. fARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

depriving Robert R. Smith, William J. Overton, George W.
Wells, junior, and P. M. Wells, then and there being citizens
of the United States and of said State, of the equal protection
of the laws in this, to wit, that theretofore, to wit, on the day
and year aforesaid, in said county, the said Robert R. Smith,
William J. Overton, George W. Wells, junior, and P. M.
Wells, having been charged with the commission of certain
criminal offences, the nature of which said criminal offences
being to the grand jurors aforesaid unknown, and having upon
such charges then and there been duly arrested by the lawful
and constituted authorities of said State, to wit, by one William A. Tucker, the said William A. Tucker then and.there
being a deputy sheriff of said county, and then and there acting as such; and having been so arrested as aforesaid, and
being then and there so under arrest and in the custody of said
deputy sheriff as aforesaid, they, the said Robert R. Smith,
William J. Overton, George W. Wells, junior, and P. M.
Wells, were then and there by the laws of said State entitled
to the due and equal protection of the laws thereof, and were
then and there entitled under the said laws to have their persons protected from violence when so then and there under
arrest as aforesaid. And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their
oaths aforesaid, do further present, that the said R. G. Harris"
(and nineteen others, naming them), "with certain other persons whose names are to the said grand jurors unknown, did
then and there with force and arms unlawfully conspire together
as aforesaid then and there for the purpose of depriving them,
the said Robert R. Smith, William J. Overton, George W.
Wells, junior, and P. M. Wells, of their rights to the due and
equal protection of the laws of said State and of their rights to
be protected in their persons from violence while so then and
thdre under arrest as aforesaid and while so then and there in
the custody of the said deputy sheriff, and did then and there
deprive them, the said Rotert R. Smith, William J. Overton,
George W. Wells, junior, and P. M. Wells, of such rights and
protection and of the due and equal protection of the laws of
the said State, by then and there, while so under arrest as
aforesaid and while so then and there in the custody of the
said deputy sheriff as aforesaid, beating, bruising, wounding,

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

and otherwise ill-treating them, the said Robert R. Smith, William J. Overton, George W. Wells, junior, aid P. 2Vl. Wells,
contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and
provided, and against the peace and dignity of the United
States."
The second count charged that the defendants, with force
and arms, unlawfully did conspire together for the purpose of
preventing and hindering the constituted authorities of the
State of Tennessee, to wit, the said William A. Tucker, deputy
sheriff of said county, from giving and securing to the said
Robert R. Smith and others, naming them, the du'e and equal
protection of the laws of said State, in this, to wit, that at and
before the entering into said conspiracy, the said Robert R.
Smith and others, naming them, were held in the custody of
said deputy sheriff by virtue of certain warrants duly issued
against them, to answer certain criminal charges, and it thereb3
became and was the duty of said deputy sheriff to safely keep
in his custody the said Robert R. Smith and others while so
under arrest, and then and there give and secure to them the
equal protection of the laws of the State of Tennessee; and
that the defendants did then and there conspire together for
the purpose of preventing and hindering the said deputy sheriff from then and there safely keeping, while under arrest
and in his custody, the said Robert R Smith and others, and
giving and securing to them the equal protection of the laws of
said State.
The third count was identical with the second, except that
the conspiracy was charged to have been with the purpose of
hindering and preventing said William A. Tucker, deputy
sheriff, from giving and securing to Robert R. Smith alone the
due and equal protection of the laws of the State.
The fourth count charged that the defendants did conspire
together for the purpose of depriving said P. M. Wells, who
was then and there a citizen of the United States and the
State of Tennessee, of the equal protection of the laws, in this,
to wit: said Wells having been charged with an offence
against the laws of said State, was duly arrested by said
Tucker, deputy sheriff, and so being under arrest was entitled
to the due and equal protection of said laws, and to have -his

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Or.

person protected from violence while so under arrest I and the
said defendants did then and there unlawfully conspire together for the purpose of depriving said Wells of his right to
the equal protection of the laws, and of his right to be protected
in person from violence while so under arrest, and "did then
and there deprive him of such rights and protection, and of the
due and equal protection of the laws of the State of Tennessee,
by then and there, and while he, the said P. M. Wells, was so
then and there under arrest as aforesaid, unlawfully beating,
bruising, wounding, and killing him, the said P. M. Wells,
contrary to the form of -the statute in such case made and provided," &c.
Section 5519 of the Revised Statutes is in the following words:
"If two or more persons in any State or Territory conspire or
go in disguise upon the highway or on the premises of another
for the purpose of depriving, either directly or indirectly, any
person or class of persons of the equal protection of the laws or
of ,equal privileges or immunities under the laws, or for the
purpose of preventing or hindering the constituted authorities
of any State or Territory from giving or securing to all persons
within such State or Territory the equal protection of the laws,
each of said persons shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$500 nor more than $5,000, or by imprisonment, with or without hard labor, not less' than six months nor more than six
years, or by both such fine and imprisonment." This section
was originally a part of sect. 2 of the act of April 20, 1871,
c. 22.
The defendants demurred to the indictment on several
grounds, among them the following:
1. "Because the offences created by section 5519 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and upon which section the
aforesaid four counts are based, are not constitutionally within
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and because
the matters and things therein referred to are judicially cognizable by State tribunals only, and legislative action thereon
is among the rights reserved to the several States, and inhibited to Congress by the Constitution of Ihe United States;"
and,2. "Because the said section 5519, in so far as it creates

iot. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

offences and imposes penalties, is in violation of the Constitution
of the United States, and an infringement of the rights of the
several States and the people thereof."
The case was heard in the Circuit Court on the demurrer to
the indictment, and, as the record states, "came the district attorney, on behalf of the United States, and came also the
defendants indicted herein, by their attorneys, when this case
came on to be heard before the Honorable John Baxter, circuit
judge, and the Honorable Connally F. Trigg, district judge,
presiding, on the demurrer of the said defendants, filed herein
on the fifth day of February, A. D. 1878, to the indictment
herein, and the said judges being divided in opinion on the
point of the constitutionality of the section of the Revised
Statutes of the United States on which the said indictment is
based, being section number 5519 thereof, . . . after argument,
hereby direct the said point . . to be certified to the Supreme
Court of the United States for its decision thereon, and the
same is accordingly ordered. And it is further ordered by the
court that this case be continued until the decision of said
Supreme Court in the premises."
Section 651 of the Revised Statutes, which authorizes cer.
tificates of division of opinion, declares: "Whenever any question occurs on the trial or hearing of any criminal proceeding
before a Circuit Court, upon which the judges are divided
in opinion, the point upon which they disagree shall, during
the same term, upon the request of either party or their
counsel, be stated under the direction of the judges, and
certified, under the seal of the court, to the Supreme Court
at their next session; but nothing herein contained shall
prevent the cause from proceeding if, in the opinion of the
court, further proceedings can be had without prejudice to the
merits."
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court,
and, after making the foregoing statement, proceeded as follows : The certificate of division of opinion in this case does not

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Gt.

expressly state that the point of difference between the judges
was certified "upon the request of either party or their counsel." Neither party challenges the jurisdiction of this court,
but it has occurred to us as a question, and we have considered it, whether this omission in the certificate is fatal to our
jurisdiction, and we have reached the conclusion that it is
not.
It fairly appears from the certificate that the point upon
which the judges differed in opinion was stated, under their
direction, in the presence of the counsel of both parties, without objection from either, and it is expressly stated that the
cause was continued until the decision of this court upon the
point of difference between the judges could be rendered.
Had no certificate of division of opinion been made, the result
must have been adverse to the sufficiency of the indictment,
although the difference of opinion arose upon the demurrer of
the defendants, for no judgment could have been given against
them, if the judges were not agreed as to the constitutionality
of the law upon which the indictment was based. Hence it
became the duty of the prosecuting officer, and the interest of
the government which he represented, to request a certificate
of division of opinion for the determination of the question by
this court. The case is brought to this court by the counsel
for the United States upon the point stated in the certificate;
the case is suspended until our decision upon the point certified
is made; and he asks us to decide the question upon which the
judges of the Circuit Court differed. These circumstances, all
of which appear of record, considered in connection with the
fact that the court made the certificate, raise the legal presumption that a request for the certificate was duly preferred.
The record evidence of the fact of the request by counsel for
the United States is incontrovertible.
It is suggested that under sect. 649 of the Revised Statutes,
which provides that a jury may be waived "whenever the
parties or their attorneys of record file with the clerk a stipulation in writing waiving a jury," this court has decided that
the fact that the stipulation was in writing and filed with the
clerk must appear of record in order to entitle the party to the
review of the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATIz

,. HARRIS.

provided by sect. 700, and, therefore, that in the present case
the record should distinctly show the request. But sect. 649
expressly requires that the waiver of the jury shall be in writing and filed with the clerk. The section which provides for
a certificate of division of opinion makes no such requiremen'
in relation to the request for a certificate.
In one case the jurisdictional fact is the filing of a certait
paper writing with the clerk; in the other, the making of s
request, which may be oral, to the court. In either case, when
the jurisdictional fact fairly appears by the record, our jurisdiction attaches. So, in this case, if the request may be fairly
inferred from such circumstances as we have mentioned, that
is all that is necessary to satisfy the statute. In Supervisors v.
.Kennicott,103 U. S. 554, this court held that when a stipulation in writing was filed with the clerk, by which it was provided that the case might be submitted to the court on an
agreed statement of facts, but which contained no express
waiver of a jury, yet this amounted to a waiver sufficient to
meet the requirements of sect. 649. And though the right of
trial by jury is a constitutional one, yet this court has declared
that when it simply appeared by the record that a party was
present by counsel and had gone to trial before the court without objection or exception, a waiver of his right to a jury trial
would be presumed, and he would be held in this court to
the legal consequences of such waiver. Kearney v. Case, 12
Wall. 275.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the request by counsel of
the United States for a certificate of division is sufficiently
shown by the record in this case, and that our jurisdiction is
clear.
We pass to the consideration of the merits of the case.
Proper respect for a co-ordinate branch of the government
requires the courts of the United States to give effect to the
presumption that Congress will pass no act not within its constitutional power. This presumption should prevail unless the
lack of constitutional authority to pass an act in question is
clearly demonstrated. While conceding this, it must, nevertheless, be stated that the government of the United States
is one of delegated, limited, and enumerated powers. 1Marurn

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; lJfcCulloch v. State of
Maryland, 4 id. 316; Gibons v. Ogden, 9 id. 1. Therefore
every valid act of Congress must find in the Constitution some
warrant for its passage. This is apparent by reference to the
following provisions of the Constitution: Section 1 of the first
article declares that all legislative powers granted-by the Constitution shall be veted in the Congress of the United States.
Section 8 of the same article enumerates the powers granted
to the Congress, and concludes the enumeration with a grant
of power "to make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper to carry into execution the foregoing powers and all
other powers vested by the Constitution in the government of
the United States, or in any department or officer thereof."
Article X. of the amendments to the Constitution declares that
"the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively or to the people."
Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on the Constitution, says: "Whenever, therefore, a question arises concerning
the constitutionality of a particular power, the first question is
whether the power be expressed in the Constitution. If it be,
the question is decided. If it be not expressed, the next inquiry must be whether it is properly an incident to an express
power and necessary to its execution. If it be, then it may be
exercised by Congress. If not, Congress cannot exercise it."
Sect. 1243, referring to Virginia Reports and Resolutions,
January, 1800, pp. 33, 34; President Monroe's Exposition and
Message of May 4, 1822, p. 47; 1 Tuck. Black. Comm. App.
287, 288; 5 Marshall's Wash. App., Note 3 1 Hamilton's
Works, 117, 121.
The demurrer filed to the indictment in this case questions
the power of Congress to pass the law under which the inIt is, therefore, necessary to search
dictment was found.
the Constitution to ascertain whether or not the power is
<onferred.
There are only four paragraphs in the Constitution which
can in the remotest degree have any reference to the question
in hand. These are section 2 of article 4 of the original
Constitution, and the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth

Oct. 1882.]

ONITED STATES V. HARRIS.

Amendments. It will be convenient to consider these in the
inverse of the order stated.
It is clear that the Fifteenth Amendment can have no application. That amendment, as was said by this court in the
case of United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, "relates to the
right of citizens of the United States to vote. It does not
confer the right of suffrage on any one. It merely invests
citizens of the United States with the constitutional right of
exemption from discrimination in the enjoyment of the elective
franchise on account of race, color, or previous condition of
servitude." See also United States v. Cruiksan,, id. 542;
s. c. 1 Woods, 308. Sect. 5519 of the Revised Statutes has no
reference to this right. The right guaranteed by the Fifteenth
Amendment is protected by other legislation of Congress,
namely, by sects. 4 and 5 of the act of May 31, 1870, c. 114,
and now embodied in sects. 5506 and 5507 Revised Statutes.
Section 5519, according to the theory of the prosecution, and
as appears by its terms, was framed to protect from invasion
by private persons, the equal privileges and immunities under
the laws, of all persons and classes of persons. It requires no
argument to show that such a law cannot be founded on a
clause of the Constitution whose sole object is to protect from
denial or abridgment, by the United States or States, on
account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude, the
right of citizens of the United States to vote.
It is, however, strenuously insisted that the legislation under
consideration finds its warrant in the first and fifth sections of
the Fourteenth Amendment. The first section declares "all
persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States
and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall *makeor
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor shall any State deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws."
The fifth section declares "the Congress shall have power
to enforce by appropriate legislation the provisions of this
amendment."

UNITED

STATES V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Oh.

It is perfectly clear from the language of the first section
that'its purpose also was to place a restraint upon the action of
the States. In Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. '6, it was
held by the majority of the court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Miller, that the object of the second clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment was to protect from the
hostile legislation of the States the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States; and this was conceded
by Mr. Justice Field, who expressed the views of the dissenting justices in that case. In the same case the court, referring
to the Fourteenth Amendment, said that "if the States do
not conform their laws to its requirements, then by the fifth
section of the article of amendment Congress was authorized
to enforce it by suitable legislation."
The purpose and effect of the two sections of the Fourteenth
Amendment above quoted were clearly defined by Mr. Justice
Bradley in the case of United States v. Cruikcsdan7c, 1 Woods,
308, as follows: "It is a guaranty of protection against the
acts of the State government itself. It is a guaranty against
the exertion of arbitrary and tyrannical power on the part of
the government and legislature of the State, not a guaranty
against the commission of individual offences; and the power
of Congress, whether express or implied, to legislate for the
enforcement of such a guaranty does not extend to the passage of laws for the suppression of crime within the States.
The enforcement of the guaranty does not require or authorize Congress to perform "the duty that the guaranty itself
supposes it to be the duty of the State to perform, and which
it requires the State to perform."
When the case of United States v. Cruikshanc came to this
court, the same view was taken here. The Chief Justice,
delivering the opinion of the court in that case, said: "The
Fourteenth Amendment prohibits a State from depriving any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,
or from denying to any person the equal protection of the
laws; but this provision does not add anything to the rights of
one citizen as against another. It simply furnishes an additional guarantee against any encroachment by the States upon
the fundamental rights which belong to every citizen as a

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. HARRIS.

member of society. The duty of piotecting all its citizens i'n
the enjoyment of an equality of rights was originally assumed
by the States, and it remains there. The only obligation resting upon the United States is to see that the States do not
deny the right. This the amendment guarantees, and no
more. The power of the national government is limited to
this guaranty." 92 U. S. 542.
So in Virginia v. .Rives, 100 id. 313, it was declared by
this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Strong, that "these
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment have reference to
State action exclusively, and not to any action of private
individuals."
These authorities show conclusively that the legislation
under consideration finds no warrant for its enactment in the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The language of the amendment does not leave this subject
in doubt. When the State has been guilty of no violation of
its provisions; when it has not made or enforced any law
abridging the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; when no one of its departments has deprived any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,
or denied to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws; when, on the contrary, the laws of the
State, as enacted by its legislative, and construed by its judicial, and administered by its executive departments, recognize
and protect the rights of all persons, the amendment imposes
no duty and confers no power upon Congress.
Section 5519 of the Revised Statutes is not limited to take
effect only in case the State shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States, or deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,
or deny to any person the equal protection of the laws. It
applies, no matter how well the State may have performed its
duty. Under it private persons are liable to punishment for
conspiring to deprive any one of the equal protection of the
laws enacted by the State.
In the indictment in this case, for instance, which would be
a good indictment under the law if the law itself were valid,
there is no intimation that the State of Tennessee has passed

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

any law or done any act forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment. On the conirary, the gravamen of the charge against
the accused is that they conspired to deprive certain citizens of
the United States and of the State of Tennessee of the equal
protection accorded them by the laws of Tennessee.
As, therefore, the section of the law under consideration is
directed exclusively against the action of private persons,
without reference to the laws of the State or their administration by her officers, we are clear in the opinion that it is
not warranted by any clause in the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution.
We are next to consider whether the Thirteenth Amendment
to the Constitution furnishes authority for the enactment of
the section. This amendment declares that "neither slavery
nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime
whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist
within the United States or any place subject to their jurisdiction." " Congress shall have power to enforce this article
by appropriate legislation."
It is clear that this amendment, besides abolishing forever
slavery and involuntary servitude within the United States,
gives power to Congress to protect all persons within the
jurisdiction of the United States from being in any way subjected to slavery or involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, and in the enjoyment oi that freedom
which it was the object of the amendment to secure. Mr.
Justice Swayne, in United States v. Rhodes, 1 Abb. (U. S.)
28; Mr. Justice Bradley, in United States v. Cruikshank,
1 Woods, 308.
Congress has, by virtue of this amendment, declared, in sect.
1 of the Act of April 9, 1866, c. 81, that all persons within the
jurisdiction of the United States shall have the same right in
every State and Territory to make and enforce contracts, to sue,
be parties, give evidence, and to the full and equal benefit of
all laws and proceedings for the security of persons and property as is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject to
like pfinishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses, and exactions
of every kind, and to none other.
But the question with which we have to deal is, does the

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES

v.

IIARRIS.

Thirteenth Amendment warrant the enactment of sect. 5519
of the Revised Statutes. We are of opinion that it does not.
Our conclusion is based on the fact that the provisions of that
section are broader than the Thirteenth Amendment would
justify. Under that section it would be an offence for two
or more white persons to conspire, &c., for the purpose of
depriving another white person of the equal protection of the
laws. It would be an offence for two or more colored persons,
enfranchised slaves, to conspire with the same purpose against
a white citizen or against another colored citizen who had
never been a slave. Even if the amendment is held to be
directed against the action of private individuals, as well as
against the action of the States and United States, the law
under consideration covers cases both within and without the
provisions of the amendment. It covers any conspiracy between two free white men against another free white man to
deprive him of any right accorded him by the laws of the
State or of the United States. A law under which two or
more free white private citizens could be punished for conspiring or going in disguise for the purpose of depriving
another free white citizen of a right accorded by the law of
the State to all classes of persons -as, for instance, the right
to make a contract, bring a suit, or give evidence - clearly cannot be authorized by the amendment which simply prohibits
slavery and involuntary servitude.
Those provisions of the law, which are broader than is
warranted by the article of the Constitution by which they
are supposed to be authorized, cannot be sustained.
Upon this question, United States v. Beese, 92 U. S. 214,
is in point. In that case this court had under consideration
the constitutionality of the third and fourth sections of the
act of May 31, 1870, c. 114, now constituting sects. 2007,
2008, and 5506 of the Revised Statutes. The third section
of the act made it an offence for any judge, inspector, or other
officer of election, whose duty it was, under the circumstances
therein stated, to receive and count the vote of any citizen, to
wrongfully refuse to receive and count the same; and the
fourth section made it an offence for any person by force,
bribery, or other unlawful means to hinder or delay any
VOL. XVI.

41

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

citizen from voting at any election, or from doing any act required to be done to qualify him to vote.
The indictment in the case charged two inspectors of a
municipal election in the State of Kentucky with refusing to
receive -and count at such election the vote of William Garner,
a citizen of the United States, of African descent. It was
contended by the defendants that it was not within the constitutional power of Congress to pass the section upon which the
indictment was based. The attempt was made by the counsel
for the United States to sustain the law as warranted by the
Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
But this court held it not to be appropriate legislation under
that amendment. The ground of the decision was that the
sections referred to were broad enough not only to punish those
who hindered and delayed the enfranchised colored citizen
from voting, on account of his race, color, or previous condition of servitude, but also those who hindered or delayed the
free white citizen. The court, speaking by the Chief Justice,
said: "It would certainly be dangerous if the legislature could
set a net large enough to catch all possible offenders, and leave
it to the courts to step inside and say who could be rightfully
detained, and who should be set at large. This would, to some
extent, substitute the judicial for the legislative department of
the government. The courts enforce the legislative will, when
ascertained, if within the constitutional grant of power. But
if Congress steps outside of its constitutional limitation and
attempts that which is beyond its reach, the courts are authorized to, and when called upon must, annul its encroachment
upon the reserved rights of the States and the people."
And the court declared that it could not limit the statute so
as to bring it within the constitutional power of Congress, and
concluded: "We must, therefore, decide that Congress has not
as yet provided by appropriate legislation for the punishment
of the offences charged in the indictment."
This decision is in point, and, applying the principle established by it, it is clear that the legislation now under consideration cannot be sustained by reference to the Thirteenth
Amendment to the Constitution.
There is another view which strengthens this conclusion. If

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. HARRIS.

Congress has constitutional authority under the Thirteenth
Amendment to punish a conspiracy between two persons to do
an unlawful act, it can punish the act itself, whether done by
one or more persons.
A private person cannot make constitutions or laws, nor can
he with authority construe them, nor can he administer or execute them. The only way, therefore, in which one private
person can deprive another of the equal protection of the laws
is by the commission of some offence against the laws which
protect the rights of persons, as by theft, burglary, arson, libel,
assault, or murder. If, therefore, we hold that sect. 5519 is
warranted by the Thirteenth Amendment, we should, by virtue
of that amendment, accord to Congress the power to punish
every crime by which the right of any person to life, property,
or reputation is invaded. Thus, under a provision of the Constitution which simply abolished slavery and involuntary servitude, we should, with few exceptions, invest Congress with
power over the whole catalogue of crimes. A construction
of the amendment which leads to such a result is clearly
unsound.
There is only one other clause in the Constitution of the
United States which can, in any degree, be supposed to sustain
the section under consideration; namely, the second section of
article 4, which declares that "the citizens of each State shall
be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of
the several States." But this section, like the Fourteenth
Amendment, is directed against State action. Its object is
to place the citizens of each State upon the same footing with
citizens of other States, and inhibit discriminative legislation
against them by other States. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168.
Referring to the same provision of the Constitution, this
court said, in Slaughter-Howe Cases, ubi supra, that it " did
not create those rights which it called privileges and immunities of citizens of the States. It threw around them in that
clause no security for the citizen of the State in which they
were claimed or exercised. Nor did it profess to control the
power of the State governments over the rights of its own citizens. Its sole purpose was to declare to the several States, that
whatever those rights, as you grant or establish them to your

ROGERS V. DURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

own citizens, or as you limit, or qualify, or impose restrictions
on their exercise, the same, neither more nor less, shall be the
measure of the rights of citizens of other States within your
jurisdiction."
It was never supposed that the section under consideration
conferred on Congress the power to enact a law which would
punish a private citizen for an invasion of the rights of his
fellow citizen, conferred by the State of which they were both
residents, on all its citizens alike.
We have, therefore, been unable to find any constitutional
authority for the enactment of sect. 5519 of the Revised Statutes. The decisions of this court above referred to leave no
constitutional ground for the act to stand on.
The point in reference to which the judges of the Circuit
Court were divided in opinion must, therefore, be decided
against the constitutionality of the law.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented on the question of jurisdic-

tion.

He expressed no opinion on the merits.

ROGERS v. DURANT.
1. The loss of a draft is not sufficiently proved, to support a suit in equity
thereon against the drawer or acceptor, by evidence that it was left with a
referee appointed by order of court to examine and report claims against
an estate in the hands of a receiver, and that unsuccessful inquiries for it
have been made of the referee, the receiver, and the attorney for the pres.
ent defendant in those proceedings, without evidence of any search in the
files of the court to which the report of the referee was returned, or any
application to that court to obtain the draft.
2. A decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing upon the merits a bill of which this
court on appeal holds that there is no jurisdiction in equity, will be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice
to an action at law, and with costs in the court below, and each party to
pay his own costs on the appeal.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

