MILLER V. LANCASTER BANK.

[Sup. t

ceedings, to protect, not simply such interests, but the property
and rights of the corporation against the action or threatened
action of third parties, thus assuming duties properly devolving
upon its directors, he must show a clear breach of duty on their
part in neglecting or refusing to act in the matter, amounting
to such grossly culpable conduct as would lead to irremediable
loss to him if he were not permitted to bring the matter before
the courts. And such neglect and refusal must not be simulated, but real and persisted in, after earnest efforts to overcome it. The opinion in the case of Hfawes v. Oakland is full
of instruction on this head, and to it we refer for a statement
of the law; we can add nothing to its cogent reasoning. 104
U. S. 450.
The decree of the court below must be reversed, and the case
remanded with directions to dismiss the bill, without prejudice
to a suit in the State courts; and it is
So ordered.

MILLER V. LANCASTER BANK.
Where a party sues out a writ of error to a State court, this court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment or the decree, although it be adverse to
the Federal right, if he set up and claimed the right, not for himself, but for a
party in whose title he had no interest.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of
the State of Kentucky.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. Richard T. Merrick and Mr. Martin T. Morris in support of the motion.
Mr. Philip Phillips and Mr. W. Rallett Phillips in opposi-

tion thereto.
MR. CHIF
court.

JUSTICE

WAITE delivered the opinion of the

From this record it appears that one S. W. Miller, being
insolvent, made an assignment of his property to M. J. Durham,
trustee, for the benefit of his creditors. The trustee afterwards

Oct. 1882.]

MILLER v. LANCASTER BANK.

instituted a suit in the Boyle Circuit Court of Kentucky to
enforce his trust. To this suit S. D. Miller and E. B. Miller,
two of the present appellants, were parties; and in due course
of proceeding a decree was entered for the sale of the assigned
property. In this decree it appears that S. D. Miller and E.
B. Miller, who were then in possession of part of the premises
under a lease, were permitted to hold until the 31st of December, 1880, but it was added: "Said S. D. Miller and Ed. B.
Miller agree to give said trustee the full, entire, and peaceable
possession of the house and lands they use and occupy, on or
before the thirty-first day of December next, and on their failure so to do, the trustee, Durham, may have a writ of lhabere
facias possessionem against each of them, and the clerk of this
court is hereby directed to issue the same."
Under this decree the property now in question was sold and
duly conveyed to the First National Bank of Danville. The
Danville Bank afterwards sold and conveyed the property to
the National Bank of Lancaster, a bank organized under the
national banking law. Tit. LXII., Revised Statutes. After
these conveyances were made a writ was applied for, under the
decree, in behalf of the Lancaster Bank, and issued to John
Meyer, sheriff of the county, commanding him to take the possession of the property from S. D. Miller and E. B. Miller, and
deliver it to Durham, the trustee. Thereupon S. D. Miller, E.
B. Miller, and John W. Miller,, the last of whom had in some
way got into the possession of the property after the decree,
filed a petition in the Boyle Circuit Court against the Lancaster Bank and the sheriff, to enjoin the execution of the writ,
on the ground that it was issued without authcrity and was
void. In this petition it was alleged that the Lancaster Bank
had no power under its charter to take and hold the property,
and that consequently the deed to it was inoperative and void.
There were also allegations of irregularity in the form of
the writ, and that since the decree Durham, the trustee, had
sold and conveyed the property to the Danville Bank. To this
petition the Lancaster Bank filed an answer and counter-claim.
In the counter-claim the bank set up its title through the sale
under the decree. The prayer was that the petition of the
plaintiffs be dismissed and a judgment rendered for the recovery

MILLER V. LANCASTER BANK.

[Sup. Or.

of possession. Upon the hearing the writ which had been issued
was set aside for irregularity, but a new writ was awarded the
bank. From a judgment to that effect an appeal was taken to
the CoQurt of Appeals of Kentucky, where the judgment was
affirmed. To reverse this judgment of affirmance the present
writ of error was brought.
Our jurisdiction depends on the question whether the plaintiffs in error have been denied by the judgment below any
"title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed"
under the banking act. As early as 1809 it was held by this
court in Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cranch, 344, that in
order to give us jurisdiction in this class of cases the right,
title, or immunity which is denied must grow out of the Constitution, or a treaty or statute of the United States relied on.
Under this rule jurisdiction was not taken in that case, although
it was an action of ejectment by Norwood's lessee, and the record showed that an effort was made to defeat the recovery
because of an outstanding title in a third person adverse to
Norwood and protected by a treaty. Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in speaking for the court, said: "Whenever a right
grows out of, or is protected by, a treaty, it is sanctioned
against all the laws and judicial decisions of the States; and
whoever may have this right is to be protected. But if the
person's title is not affected by the treaty, or if he claims
nothing under a treaty, his title cannot be protected by the
treaty." The principle thus announced has been recognized in
many cases since. 1)fontgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129 ;
Henderson v. Tennessee, 10 How. 311; -Wynn v. Mlorris, 20 id.
3; Hale v. Gaines, 22 id. 144; Terden v. Coleman, 1 Black,
472; Long v. Converse, 91 U. S. 105. Henderson v. Tennessee,
like Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, was an action of ejectment,
and the effort was to defeat the recovery by showing an outstanding title in a third person under a treaty with which the
party in possession did not connect himself; but the jurisdiction
was denied, Mr. Chief Justice Taney saying, in the opinion:
"The right to make this defence is not derived from the treaties, nor from any authority exercised under the general government. It is given by the laws of the State, which provide
that the defendant in ejectment may set up title in a stranger

Oct. 1882.]

MILLER V. LANCASTER BANK.

in bar of the action. It is true the title set up in this case was
claimed under a treaty. But to give jurisdiction to this court
the party must claim the right for himself, and not for a third
person in whose title he has no interest." And in Hale v.
Gaines it was said: "The plaintiff in error must claim (for
himself) some title, right, privilege, or exemption under an act
of Congress, &c., and the decision must be against his claim to
give this court jurisdiction. Setting up a title in the United
States by way of defence is not claiming a personal interest affecting the subject in litigation."
In our opinion these cases are conclusive of the present
motion. The plaintiffs in error set up no title against the
bank. In effect, they seek to prevent the issue of an execution
on a judgment against them, or those under whom they claim,
because, as between the Danville Bank and the Lancaster
Bank, a conveyance made by the Danville Bank of the property to be delivered under the execution is inoperative on
account of the provisions of the banking law. What was done
between the two banks had no effect on the title of the parties
in possession, and it was a matter of no importance to them
whether the execution issued on the application of the one or
the other. Clearly, therefore, the plaintiffs in error occupy no
other position than that of parties setting up title in the
Danville Bank by way of defence, and that is not claiming
for themselves any title, right, privilege, or immunity given by
the law.
Motion granted.
MR. JUSTICE MiLtm took no part in the decision of this
case.

VOL. XVI.

