Oct. 1882.]

SAVANNAH

V. JESUP.

SAVANNAH V. JESUP.
1. Where a foreclosure suit was brought, and the municipal corporation within
which the mortgaged property was situate was allowed to intervene and set
up a claim for taxes thereon- Held, that the order of the Circuit Court rejecting the claim is binding upon the corporation, and the latter is entitled
to an appeal where the amount of taxes is sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.
2. Certain taxes assessed for the years 1877 and 1878, by the city of Savannah,
upon land situate within its limits, which belongs to the Atlantic and Gulf
Railroad Company, held to be unauthorized by law.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Air. Alexander B. Lawton for the appellant.
Mr. Walter S. Chisholm for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

In Georgia v. Jesup, ante, p. 458, will be found a brief statement of the history of a suit which Jesup, as surviving trustee,
commenced on the 15th of February, 1877, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Georgia,
against the Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company, a Georgia
corporation, for the foreclosure of certain mortgages, covering
the main line and branches of that company, with their respective appurtenances, rolling-stock, equipment, &c. In addition
to the facts there stated, it may be added, that on the 10th of
April, 1879, -the
mortgaged property being then, as it had
been since Feb. 20, 1879, in the actual possession of receivers,
the city of Savannah, a municipal corporation of Georgia
by leave of court, filed, in the cause, its petition pro interesse
suo. It was therein alleged that the city was a creditor of the
railroad company, in this, that the latter was indebted to the
city for taxes "upon real estate owned and used for its legitimate corporate purposes," within the corporate limits of Savannah, in the sum of $2,853.75 for the year 1877, and $3,720 for
the year 1878; and that for those sums execution had duly
issued on the 20th of January, 1877, and the 1st of March,
1879, respectively, and were then in the hands of the city mar-

SAVANNAH

V. JESUP.

[Sup. Ct.

shal to be levied on the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements
of the company. The prayer of the city was that it be heard
in its own interest; that the court would authorize it to proceed in the collection of the taxes by levy and sale, under its
ordinances and the laws of the State; else order the receivers
-to pay the taxes out of the funds and property in their possession, or give such other and immediate relief in the premises as
to the court seemed proper:
This intervening petition, having been submitted and considered upon the merits, was, by order of the court, dismissed.
Subsequently, the main cause was heard upon bills and answers, and the various interventions filed, and a final decree
rendered, in which, among other things, it was recited that
various persons had intervened for their interest, claiming to
have liens against the property of the company, as laborers,
mechanics, or material-men, or claiming to have an equity to
be paid out of moneys in the hands of the receivers before payment of the bonds secured by the mortgages. By the decree it
was, among other things, ordered and adjudged that certain
claims of laborers and mechanics were supjerior liens on the
mortgaged property and its proceeds, but that the claims of
those who have furnished material only, but not as laborers or
mechanics, although entitled to liens therefor, be postponed to
the mortgages therein mentioned, "and no allowance is made,
or to be paid, from the proceeds of said property, or from the
money in the receivers' hands, to any other persons than to
those who have such liens as aforesaid."
The city of Savannah prayed, and was allowed, an appealthe one now before the court -from
the decree denying its
claim for taxes for the years 1877 and 1878.
Upon the oral argument in this court, some question arose as
to whether the present appeal brings before us for review the
merits of these claims for taxes. We are of opinion that this
question must receive an affirmative answer. If the city had
a valid claim for taxes, paramount to the lien created by the
mortgages, two courses were open to it, - to postpone action
under its executions until the proceedings in the Circuit Court
of the United States were concluded, and its possession of the
property, by receivers, had ended; or, with leave of court, to

Oct. 18n).]

SAVANNAH V. JESUP.

file a petition pro interesse suo, submitting its claims for judicial
determination. It adopted the latter course, and, in so doing,
put itself in a condition to appeal from any order adverse to its
interests, if such order involved an amount sufficient to give
this court jurisdiction. This practice received the sanction of
this court in Wiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52. The order
dismissing the city's petition was followed by a final decree,
which, in terms, limited the distribution of the proceeds of
sale to certain claimants (the city not among the number), excluding all others. The orders in the court below, therefore,
constituted, in every essential sense, a judicial determination
adverse to the city's claims for taxes. Until those orders are
reversed or modified, the city is concluded against any further
assertion of its rights in the premises. Consequently, the appeal from the decree dismissing the petition and denying the
claims for taxes, brings before us the question whether those
claims were valid and enforceable against the property of the
railroad company, or the proceeds arising from any sale thereof.
That question we proceed to examine.
In conformity with an act of the legislature of Georgia,
passed April 18, 1863, the Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company was formed by the consolidation of two other companies,
one, the Savannah, Albany, and Gulf Railroad Company,
incorporated Dec. 25, 1847; and the other, the Atlantic and
Gulf Railroad Company, incorporated Feb. 27, 1856. The
two constituent companies acquired, by their respective charters,
an immunity from all taxation in excess of one-half of one per
cent upon its annual net income or the annual net proceeds of
its investments, - whether the one or the other is not material
in the present case. This immunity passed to the consolidated
company, subject, however, to the right of the State, reserved
in the Code of Georgia (which was in force on and after Jan.
1, 1863), to withdraw it altogether. In Railroad Company
v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359, we held that this immunity or limited
exemption was, in law, withdrawn by the State in the act of
Feb. 28, 1874, entitled "An Act to amend the tax laws of the
State so far as the same relate to railroad companies and to
define the liabilities of said companies to taxation, and to repeal so much of the charters of such companies respectively as

SAVANNAH V. JESUP.

[Sup. Ot.

may conflict with the provisions of this act." As the present
case turns mainly upon the construction and effect of that act,
it is necessary to examine its provisions with some care.
By the first section it is enacted that from and after the passage of the act "the presidents of all the railroad companies in
this State shall be required to return on oath, annually, to the
comptroller-general the value of the property of their respective companies, without deducting their indebtedness; each
class or species of property to he separately named and valued,
so far as the same may be practicable, to be taxed as other
property of the people of the State, and that said returns shall
be made under the same regulations provided by law for the
returns of officers of other incorporated companies which are
required by law to be made to the comptroller-general."
The second section provides that the presidents of railroad
companies shall " pay to the comptroller-general the taxes
assessed upon the property of said railroad companies, and on
failure to make the returns required by the preceding section,
or on failure to pay the taxes so assessed, the comptroller-general shall proceed to enforce the collection of the same, in the
manner provided by law for the enforcement of taxes against
incorporated companies hereinbefore mentioned."
The third section provides, that if any railroad company
affected by the first and second sections of the act "desires to
resist the collection of the tax herein provided for, said company, through its proper officer, may, after making the return
required in the first section in this act, and after paying the
tax levied on such corporation by the tax act for 1873, and continuing to pay the same while the question of its liability
under this act is undetermined, resist the collection of the tax
herein provided for by filing an affidavit of illegality to the
execution or other process issued by the comptroller-general
aforesaid, and stating fully and distinctly the grounds of resistance, which shall be returnable to the Superior Court of
Fulton, County, to be there determined as other illegalities,
only the same shall have precedence of all cases in said court as
to time of hearing, and with the same right of motions for new
trial and writs of error as in other -cases of illegality on the
part of the comptroller-general and of said corporation, in

Oct. 1882.]

SAVANNAH V. JESUP.

which cases the comptroller-general shall be represented by the
attorney-general of the State or such other attorney as the
governor may select, and if the grounds of such illegality be
not sustained, the comptroller-general shall, after crediting the
process aforesaid with amount paid, proceed to collect the residue due under the provisions of the act, and if at any time
during the pendency of any litigation herein provided for, the
said corporation shall fail to pay the tax required to be paid as
a condition of hearing, then said illegality must be dismissed
and no second affidavit of illegality shall be allowed. Said illegality may be amended as other affidavits of illegality, and
shall always lte accompanied by good bond and security for the
payment of the tax ft. fa. issued by the comptroller-general."
The remaining section does nothing more than repeal all conflicting laws.
In Railroad Company v. Georgia, supra, the constitutional
validity of that act was sustained.
The effect, then, of the act of 1874 was, that whereas, prior
to its passage, the railroad company enjoyed immunity from all
taxation, except at a limited rate upon its annual net income,
or annual net proceeds of its investments, by that statute, each
class or species of its property, without exception, was thenceforward liable, without deducting the indebtedness of the company, "to be taxed as other property of the people of the
State." Now, the argument of learned counsel is that by its
charter the city had "full power and authority to make
such assessments and lay such taxes on the inhabitants of said
city, and those who have taxable property within the same,
and those who transact or offer to transact business therein, as
said corporate authorities may deem expedient for the safety,
benefit, convenience, and advantage of said city;" and that
"besides real and personal property, the said mayor and aldermen may tax capital invested in said city, stocks in money,
corporations, choses in action, income and commissions derived
from the pursuit of any profession, faculty, trade, or calling,
dividends, bank, insurance, express or other agencies, and all
other property or sources of profit not expressly prohibited or
exempt by State law or competent authority of the United
Consequently, it is.
States." Code of Georgia, sect. 4847.

SAVANNAH

V. JESUP.

[Sup. t

argued,, when the act of 1874 withdrew the immunity theretofore enjoyed by the company, and declared that its property
should "be taxed as other property of the people of the State,"
such of the property of the company, within the city, as was
taxable under its charter, could be thereafter reached for all
purposes of municipal taxation.
This argument at first blush would seem to have some force,
but we are of opinion that the opposing view is naore consistent
with the language of the statute of 1874, and the policy which
seems to have dictated its enactment. 'Upon its face that act
appears to. establish a system of taxation by the State, for its
benefit exclusively, of the property of railroad companies, The
returns by the companies are required Io be made to the cornptroller-general, under the same regulations prescrfbed for returns to him by other incorporated companies. The taxes
assessed are to be paid to that officer, and upon him, as representing the State, and upon no other officer, is imposed the
duty of enforcing their collection. In the event of litigation
he is. to be represented by the attorney-general of the State, or
by such other attorney as the governor may select. The statute, thus imposing, in behalf of the State, taxes to be collected
by its officer, and to be paid, when collected, into its treasury,
provides no machinery by means of which the property of
railroad companies may be taxed by municipal corporations
for local purposes. No provision is made for taxation by the
municipal authorities of counties, cities, and towns, through
which the road passes, of such portion of the company's property as was within their respective limits. Nor is any provision
made for the transmission by the comptroller-general to such
local authorities, of the returns made to him by railroad companies of their property for taxation. Had the statute done
nothing more, in the cases of railroad companies whose eharters were subject to legislative repeal or modification,, than to
withdraw the immunity from taxation theretofore enjoyed by
them, there would be more force in the position taken by the
city of Savannah. But such is not the case ; for, in the, same
act requiring taxation, for the benefit of the. State, of all the
property of railroad companies, and which, therefore, operated
as a withdrawal of, the then existing right of limited exemption

Oct. 1882.]

SAVANNAH V. JESUP.

from taxation, the legislature makes the returns to the comptroller-general by the railroad companies of their property the
only basis of the taxation to which, by its provisions, they are
to be thereafter subjected. The mode prescribed by the stat-.
ute for the payment of taxes by railroad companies has reference exclusively to taxes to be paid to the State, and not to
municipal corporations. It seems to the court that the legislature did not intend, when inposing, as was done by the statute
of 1874, taxation for the State upon all the property of railroad companies, to put upon the same property the additional
burden of municipal taxation, which, had not that act been
passed, would have been forbidden by the charters of those
companies. The city relies upon that statute as opening the
door for municipal taxation upon all the property of the railroad company which was taxable under any law of the State.
But as the State simply substituted, for taxation to a limited
amount, taxation for the benefit of the State upon all the property of the company according to its value, we do not think
that the railroad company could be subjected to additional taxation upon the part of the city of Savannah without further
legislation to that end.
Counsel have called our attention to Bailey v. Magwire, 22
Wall. 215, and insist that the principles there announced, if
applied in this case, will lead to a conclusion different from
that indicated. We do not so understand that case, and do not
assent to any such interpretation of the decision there rendered. In that case it appeared that the Pacific Railroad
Company, a Missouri corporation, was granted an exemption
from taxation for a limited period. When, as well as before,
that immunity was granted, the property of the company was
liable for county, school, and municipal taxes, under the public
laws of the State providing a general scheme for the taxation of
all property. It was decided that there was nothing in the
language of the statute, giving the exemption for a fixed term
of years, which justified the conclusion that the State intended
to relieve the property of the railroad company, after the exemption ceased, from the same liability for municipal taxes to
which it was subject, by the general tax laws of the State, at
the time that exemption was granted. The essential difference

SAVANNAH V. JESUP.

[Sup. Ct.

between that case and this is, that the Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company was, from its organization, exempted from all
taxation, in excess of a limited amount, and, simultaneously
-with the withdrawal of that immunity, the State provided for
the taxation of all of its property for the benefit of the State.
Here it is not claimed that the property of the company was
taxable by the city of Savannah during the period of limited
exemption, withdrawn by the act of 1874, and for which exemption was substituted taxation, for the benefit of the State,
of all of its property.
But it is contended that the taxes for the year 1878 stand
upon a different footing from those in 1877, that is, that the
city is entitled to collect the former, even if the law be otherwise as to the latter. This position rests upon that part of the
Constitution of Georgia (which went into effect Dec. 21,
1877) declaring that "all laws exempting property from taxation, other than the property herein enumerated [which does
not embrace the property of railroad corporations], shall be
void." We are unable to perceive how, in the view expressed
as to the scope and effect of the act of 1874, that constitutional
provision can have any bearing upon the present case. The
act of 1874, as was ruled in Railroad Company v. Georgia,
took away the immunity of limited taxation previously enjoyed
by the Atlantic and Gulf Railroad Company under its charter,
and substituted another mode of taxation, for the benefit of the
State, covering all the property of that company. The act of
1874 contained no exemption, and it was, therefore, unaffected
by a constitutional provision declaring laws to be void which
exempted property, other than that specially enumerated, from
taxation.
For the reasons given we are of opinion that the decree below
is right, and it is
Affirmed.
dissenting.
I do not agree to the construction which the court places
upon the act of the State of Georgia *subjecting the railroad
company to taxation.
When that statute says that the property of the railroad
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

Oct. 1882.]

JENKINS V. INTERNATIONAL BANK.

company is "to be taxed as other property of the people of the
State," I understand it to mean, that it is to be subjected to all
the lawful taxes imposed by State laws under the same circumstances that the property of the citizen is.
In Bailey v. 31agwire, 22 Wall. 215, a statute of Missouri,
passed under similar circumstances and in language almost
identical, was held to have this meaning.
That the statute of Georgia only provides in that act for the
means of collecting the taxes due the State, affords no argument against taxation by counties and cities for local purposes,
because the laws already in existence were sufficient.for that
purpose.

JENKINS V. INTERNATIONAL BANK.
1. Where a judgment in a State court is rendered against one shortly thereafter
declared to be a bankrupt, a writ of error to that judgment brought by his
assignee is a suit, within the meaning of section 6057 of the Revised Statutes.
2. The limitation of time in that section applies to a suit by the assignee to recover a debt or other moneyed obligation, as well as to a controversy concerning property or rights of property to which there are adverse claims.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
H,r. W. T. Burgess for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Julius Rosenthal and J1r. A. Hl. Pence, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

In the course of a complicated litigation in the Circuit Court
of Cook County, Illinois, between Samuel J. Walker and his
creditors, it became a question whether the International Bank
of Chicago, which was a party to the litigation, had a just and
paramount right to certain promissory notes, secured by mortgage on real estate which it held as collateral security for debts
due by him to it.
In the progress of the case the bank filed its cross-bill, alleging that it held the notes and mortgage not only as security

