STEAMISHIP (o.

v. TUGMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

comment on the part of the circuit judge as to the state of the
evidence, but, in our opinion, the question which the jury had
to decide was left to them fairly.
Judgment affrmed.
Mi. JusTcE HARLAN dissented.

STEAXSHiP COmPANY

v. TUGMA_".

1. The members of a foreign corporation, when it sues or is sued in a court of
the United States, are conclusively presumed to be citizens or subjects of
the State or country which created it.
2. The citizenship of the parties, if it be shown by the record, need not be set out
in the petition for the removal of a suit from the State court to the Circuit
Court of the United States.
3. Upon the filing of the requisite petition and bond in a suit which is removable,
the State court is absolutely divested of jurisdiction of such suit, and its
subsequent orders are coram non judice, unless its jurisdiction be, in some
form, actually restored.
4. A failure to file the transcript within the time prescribed by the statute does
not restore that jurisdiction, and the Circuit Court must determine whether,
in the absence of a complete transcript, or when one has not been filed in
proper time, it will retain jurisdiction, or dismiss the suit, or remand it to
the State court.
5. A party having filed his petition and bond for the removal of a suit pending
in a State court, the court ruled that the suit was not removable, but
should there proceed. He subsequently consented to an order requiring the
issues to be heard and determined by a referee, and thenceforward, until
'final judgment, contested the case as well before the referee as in the
courts of the State. Held, 1. That the jurisdiction of the State court was
not thereby restored, and that his consent to the order of reference must be
construed as merely denoting a preference for that mode of trial. 2. That
his objection to the exercise of jurisdiction by the referee and the State
court, after he had filed his petition and bond, added nothing to the legal
strength of his position on the question of removal.

Ei RoR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
This action was commenced on the 23d of June, 1875, by
Tugman, against the National Steamship Company, which his
complaint alleges to be "a foreign corporation, having an
office or general manager and place of business in the city of
New York." The summons and complaint were served on the
company's agent in New York on the succeeding day.

Oct. 1882.]

STEAMSHIP

Co. v.

TUGMAN.

On the 14th of July, 1875, the company entered its appearance, and at the same time filed a petition and.bond, in proper
form, for the removal of the action into the proper Circuit
Court of the United States. The petition alleges that the
plaintiff, "at the commencement of the action, was, and ever
since has been, and now is, a citizen of the State of Illinois ;"
that "the petitioner is a corporation created and existing
under and by virtue of the laws of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland, and has its principal offices for the
transaction of its business at Liverpool, in said kingdom,"
where, it is further alleged, the meetings of its stockholders
and directors were held, its records kept, its authorities acted,
and from which the latter issued their orders. The petition
also states that the company had not designated any person or
persons residing in any county of New York on whom process
might be served, as prescribed in the act of the legislature of
that State of April 10, 1855.
The sufficiency of the bond was not questioned, but the
motion that the court proceed no further in the cause was,
after argument by counsel, overruled, July 21, 1875.
The company filed its answer Aug. 3, 1875. On the 17th of
January, 1877, "on the consent of the parties," all the issues
in the action were, by order of court, referred to Henry Nicoll,
"to hear and determine the same." The parties appeared before the referee, when the company -presenting the petition,
bonds, and papers, upon which the removal of the action was
theretofore asked - contended that the State court was ousted
of jurisdiction; that the referee had no power or authority to
proceed therein ; and that the action was in fact removed into,
and was then pending in, the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of New York. The objection
was overruled by the referee, who ordered the trial to proceed; to which decision and order the defendant's attorney
duly excepted. The trial proceeded notwithstanding the company's objection.
On the 8th of June, 1877, the referee reported in favor of
the plaintiff for the sum of $4,324.53. Exceptions were filed
by the company; but they were overruled, and judgment entered in accordance with the report on the 27th of June, 1877.

STEAMtSHIP

0. V. TuUGMiAN.

[Sup. ot.

The company appealed to the general term of the Supreme
Court, where the judgment was affirmed on the nineteenth
day of February, 1878. Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals
of the State, the judgment of the Supreme Court was affirmed,
the court saying: "In regard to the question raised upon the
trial, that this court was ousted of jurisdiction by the proceedings instituted to remove the case into the United States
Circuit Court, we think that the petition was defective in not
showing that the defendant was an alien citizen or subject of
a foreign power at the time of the commencement of the action,
but only when the petition was signed and sworn to. The
omission referred to brings the case directly within the decision in the case of Pickener v. Phoenix Insurance Co., 65
N. Y. 195. It may also be remarked that since the order refusing to remove the case, the defendant consented to the appointment of a referee to determine the case, and submitted to his
jurisdiction, by trying the action on the merits. It is at least
questionable whether he has not thus waived his right to insist
that a removal had been bad."
The steamship company brought this writ of error.
Mr.B. C. Chetwood and Mr.John Chetwood for the plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. P. J. Fithianfor the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The underlying question in this case is whether, within the
meaning of the Constitution and of the statutes determining
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, and
regulating the removal of causes from State courts, a corporation created by the laws of a foreign State may, for the purposes
of suing and being sued in the courts of the Union, be treated
as a "citizen" or "subject" of such foreign State.
In Ohio & lMississippi Railroad Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286,
the court, speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, said, that in
the previous case of Louisville, Cincinnati, & Charleston Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 497, it had been decided, upon full
consideration, "that where a corporation is created by the laws
of a State, the legal presumption is, that its members are citizens of the State in which alone the corporate body has a legal

Oct. 1882.]

STEAMSHIP

Co. v.

TUGMAN.

existence; and that a suit by or against a corporation, in its
corporate name, must be presumed to be a suit by or against
citizens of the State which created the corporate body; and
that no averment or evidence to the contrary is admissible, for
the purposes of withdrawing the suit from the jurisdiction of
a court of the United States." 3iarshallv. Baltimore & Ohio
RailroadCo., 16 How. 314; Covington -DrawbridgeCo. v. Shephurd, 20 id. 227; -ns urance Company v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541;
Paul v. Virginia, 8 id. 168; Railroad Company v. Harris,12
id. 65.
To the rule, thus established by numerous decisions, the
court adheres. Upon this branch of the case it is, therefore,
only necessary to say that if the individual members of a corporation, created by the laws of one of the United States, are,
for purposes of suit by or against it in the courts of the Union,
conclusively presumed to be citizens of the State by whose laws
that corporation is created and exists, it would seem to follow,
logically, that the members of a corporation, created by the
laws of a foreign State, should, for like purposes, be conclusively presumed to be citizens or subjects of such foreign State.
Consequently, a corporation of a foreign State is, for purposes
of jurisdiction in the courts of the United States, to be deemed,
constructively, a citizen or subject of such State.
But it is suggested that the petition for the removal of the
action into the Circuit Court of the United States is radically
defective in that it does not show that the National Steamship
Company was a corporation of a foreign State at the commencement of the action; that the allegation, upon that point, refers
only to the time when the removal was sought. If, in suits
in which the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States depends upon the character of the parties, it is material, under
the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, to show the citizenship of the
parties at the commencement of the action, it is sufficient
to say that the averment in the original complaint, that the
company is a foreign corporation, supplemented by the averment in the petition for removal, that it is a corporation created
by, and existing under, the laws of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland, covers the whole period from the
commencement of the action to the application for removal.

STEAMSHIP

Co. v.

TUGMAN.

[Sup. at.

It is not always necessary that the citizenship of the parties
be set out in the petition for removal. The requirements of
the law are met if the citizenship of the parties to the controversy sought to be removed is shown, affirmatively, by the
record of the case. Railway Company v. Ramsey, 22 Wall.
322; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646.
The only remaining question which need be considered is
whether the jurisdiction of the State court was, in any form,
restored, after the company filed its petition and bond for
removal. The defendant in error insists that it was. The.petition was accompanied by a bond which, it is conceded, conformed to the statute, and was ample 'as to security. Upon the
filing, therefore, of the petition and bond, - the suit being removable under the statute, - the jurisdiction of the State court
absolutely ceased, and that of the Circuit Court of the United
States immediately attached. The duty of the State court was
to proceed no further in the cause. Every order thereafter
made in that court was coram non judice, unless its jurisdiction
was actually restored. It could not be restored by the mere
failure of the company to file a transcript of the record in the
Circuit Court of the United States within the time prescribed
by the statute. The jurisdiction of the latter court attached,
in advance of the filing of the transcript, from the moment it
became the duty of the State court to accept the bond and
proceed no further; and whether the Circuit Court of the United
States should retain jurisdiction, or dismiss or remand the
action because of the failure to file the necessary transcript,
was for it, not the State court, to determine.
Nor was the jurisdiction of the State court restored when
the company, subsequently, consented to the order requiring the
issues to be heard and determined by a referee selected by the
parties, or when it appeared and contested the case, as well
before the referee as in the State courts, up to final judgment.
The right of the company to have a trial in the Circuit Court of
the United States became fixed upon the filing of the petition
and bond. But the inferior State court having ruled that the
right of removal did not exist, and that it had jurisdiction to
proceed, the company was not bound to desert the case, and
leave the opposite party to take judgment by default. It was

Oct. 1882.]

STEAMSHIP

Co.

v. TUGMAN.

at liberty, its right to removal being ignored by the State court,
to make defence in that tribunal in every mode recognized by
the laws of the State, without forfeiting or impairing, in the
slightest degree, its right to a trial in the court to which the
action had been transferred, or without affecting, to any extent,
the authority of the latter court to proceed. The consent, by
the company, to a trial by referee was nothing more than an
expression of its preference - being compelled to make defence
in the State court-for that one of the several modes of trial
permitted by the laws of the State. It is true that when the
cause was taken up by the referee, as well as when heard in the
Supreme Court of the State and in the Court of Appeals, the
company protested that the Circuit Court of the United States
alone had jurisdiction after the petition and bond for removal
were filed. But no such protests were necessary, and they
added nothing whatever to the legal strength of its position.
When the State court adjudged that it had authority to proceed,
the company was entitled to regard the decision as final, so far
as that tribunal was concerned, and was not bound, in order to
maintain the right of removal, to protest at subsequent stages
of the trial against its exercise of jurisdiction. Indeed, such a
course would scarcely have been respectful to the State court,
after its ruling upon the point of jurisdiction had been made.
What we have said upon this subject is fully sustained by our
former decisions, particularly Railroad Company v. Koontz, 104
U. S. 5; Railroad Company v. llississippi,102 id. 135; Kern
v. Huidekoper, 103 id. 485; and Insurance Company v. Dunn,
19 Wall. 214.
The judgments herein of the Court of Appeals of New York
and of the Supreme Court of New York will be reversed, and
the cause remanded with directions that the latter court accept
the bond, tendered by plaintiff in error, for the removal of the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of that State, and proceed no further in the cause; and
it is
So ordered.

