Oct. 1882.]

WALKER'S EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

413

be made, should be accompanied by a direction to the court
below to restrict the next trial to such issues as are not covered by the answers of the jury to special questions. In
support of this position, we have been referred to several adjudications which seem to recognize the authority of the court,
when setting aside a judgment, to restrict the subsequent trial
to such issues as were not passed upon by the jury at the first
trial. Whether this contention be sound or not, we need not
now determine, for the reason that the grounds upon which it
rests have no existence, where, as here, the case, as to the
issues triable by jury, was not submitted to the jury in the
mode required by law. There is, then, no alternative but to
reverse the judgment, with directions that a trial be had upon
all the material issues of fact; and it is
So ordered.

WAIKR's EXECUTORS v. UNITED STATES.
On the 12th of April, 1865, A., a resident of Memphis, purchased, in Mobile,
from B., a resident of that city,-both cities being then in the occupancy
of the national forces, -cotton, which was then in the military lines of the
insurgent forces, in Alabama and Mississippi, the inhabitants whereof had
been declared to be in insurrection. Between June 30 and December 1 ot
that year a portion of the cotton - while it was in the hands of the planters
from whom it had been originally purchased by the Confederate government, the agent of which had sold it, in Mobile, to B. on the 5th of Aprilwas seized by treasury agents of the United States and sold. The proceeds
were paid into the treasury, and A. sued to recover them. Hdd, that his
purchase being in violation of law, no right arose therefrom which can be
enforced against the United States.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

In this action, brought under the act of March 12, 1863,
e. 120, commonly known as the Captured and Abandoned
Property Act, the appellants seek to recover from the United
States the net proceeds (alleged to be at least $600,000) of

certain cotton, seized and sold by the agents of the Treasury
Department in the year 1865. The petition having been dismissed by the Court of Claims, this appeal was taken.

414

WALKER'S EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The facts as found by that court are substantially these:
Prior to the year 1865, John Scott, the chief agent for produceloan for the Confederate government in Alabama and East
.Mississippi, purchased there at different times, and of different
planters 3,405 bales of cotton, taking from the planter, on each
purchase, a receipt and agreement in the following form : "STATE

OF MISSISSIPPI,

" County of

,

town or post-office
"1NOvEMBEr 27, 1862.

"The undersigned, having sold to the Confederate States of
America, and received the value of the same in bonds, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, one hundred and thirty-five bales
of cotton, marked, numbered, and classed as in the margin, which
plantation, hereby agrees to take due
is now deposited at
care of said cotton whilst on his plantation, and to deliver the
, in the State of Mississippi, to
same, at his own expense, at
the order of the secretary of the treasury, or his agents or their
assians."
In each instance he delivered to the planter a certificate in
the following form: " ABERDEEx, Nov. 27, 1862.
ce The undersigned, as agent of the government, certifies that
the within cotton has been examined by him or by a competent
judge, and that its character will rank, according to the commercial
scale, as middling; and also, that the weights and marks are as described- the cotton being in good merchantable order, marked
with the name of the planter, and on one end the initials C. S. A.,
and safely stored in a covered building.
"The undersigned certifies that the price agreed upon is a fair
market price at the present time.
There were thirty-seven such certificates, upon which appeared the number, weight, and marks of the bales purchased
The Confederate government, being in need of large sums
of money for its military department, and in order to pay
debts incurred and to be incurred, authorized and 'directed
Scott to sell this cotton, and all other cotton purchased by
him in like manner. Accordingly, on the 6th of April, 1865,
at Mobile, Ala., the place of his residence and business, he,

Oct. 1882.]

WALKER'S EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

415

as such Confederate produce-loan agent, sold to one O'Grady,
a citizen and resident of the same place, the 3,405 bales of cotton, at the price of one dollar per pound in Confederate States
currency, transferring to him the planter's receipts, as above
described, and attaching to each a certificate in the following
form :
"CONFEDERATE

STATES OF AMERICA,

DEPARTMENT, April 6, 1865.
"This is to certify that the within and above-described cotton
has been sold to D. O'Grady,
bales, and deliyery is hereby
ordered to be made to him, or his order, with license to export the
same from the Confederate States to any neutral port, on complying with the requisitions of the law.
".Givenunder my hand and the seal of the Treasury Department,
on the year and day above mentioned.

*

"TREASURY

"ChiefAgt

"JOtIN SCOTT,
Produce Loanfor Ala. and East Miss.
"P'r J. G.

ULRic,

AOg't."

On the 6th of March, 1865, President Lincoln gave to Samuel
P. Walker (whose executors are claimants in this case) an
order, of which the following is a copy :"EXECUTIVE MANsION, March 6, 1865.
"Whereas Samuel P. Walker, of Memphis, Tenn., claims to own
products of the insurrectionary States near Grenada and Canton,
Miss., and Montgomery and Selma, Alabama, and has arrangements
with parties in the same vicinities for other products of the insur-

rectionary States, all which he proposes to sell and deliver to agents
authorized to purchase for the United States the products of the
insurrectionary States, under the act of Congress of July 2, 1864,
and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, it is ordered
that all such products which a purchasing agent of the government
has agreed to purchase, and the said Walker has stipulated to deliver, as shown by the certificate of the purchasing agent, authorized by Regulations VIII., Form No. 1, appended to regulations
attached hereto by such agent, and being transported, or in store
awaiting transportation, for fulfilment of stipulations and in pursuance of the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be
free from seizure, detention, or forfeiture to the United States; and
officers of the army and navy and civil officers of the government

416

WALKER'S EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

will observe this order, and will give to the said Walker and his
agents, means of transportation, and to said products, free and unmolested passage through the lines (other than blockade lines), and
safe conduct within the lines while going for or returning with said
products, or while said products are in store awaiting transportation
for the purposes aforesaid.
"AD-EAHAM LINCOLN."
On the 12th of April, 1865, the city of Mobile, which had
been continuously invested from 1862, was captured by the
Union forces. On that day, at Mobile, Walker, who was
a resident and citizen of Memphis, Tenn., purchased from
O'Grady the 3,405 bales of cotton referred to (and which was
still in the hands of the planters under their arrangement with
Scott), taking from him a bill of sale, which was attached to
a list specifying the number of bales, weight, and the names
of the counties where the cotton was originally purchased from
planters. The bill of sale was as follows: "For value received of Sam'] P. Walker, I hereby transfer, sell,
and assign the above lots of cotton, amounting to 3,405 bales, without recourse upon me, and the holders thereof will please deliver
the same to the said Walker or his authorized agent.
"April 12, 1865.
D. O'GRA&Y."
At the same time O'Grady delivered and indorsed to Walker
the planters' certificates, which the former had received from
Scott. The cotton remained on the plantations, and the only
delivery to Scott, O'Grady, or Walker was by the planters'
certificates, and their transfer by indorsement, as hereinbefore
stated.
On the 5th of May, 1865, by the surrender of General Taylor, commanding the Confederate forces in Alabama and Mississippi, the counties in which this cotton was held passed under
the military control of Gen. E. R. S. Canby, commanding the
Union forces at Mobile. The United States ,military authorities seized all the lines of railroads and steamboats in that section, and on May 10, 1865, the following order was issued by
General Canby -

Oct. 1882.]

WALKER'S EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

"HEADQUARTERS

AD

417

N D DivisioN OF WEST MISSISSIPPI,
" MOBILE, ALABAMA, May 10, 1865.

"(General Field Orders, No. 39.)
"The cotton belonging to the Confederate government in East
Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and West Florida having been
surrendered to the government of the United States, its sale to private individuals, or its transfer to any persons except the officers
or agent of that government, is prohibited. This order applies to
all cotton procured by subscriptions to the cotton loan, by the sale
of Confederate bonds or notes, by the tax in kind, or by any other
process by which the title was vested in the Confederate government, whether in the possession of the agents of that government
or still in the hands of the producers; and all persons in whose
charge it may be will be held accountable for its delivery to the
agents of the United States. Commanders of districts will be furnished with a transcript from the records of the cotton agents showing the quantity and location of the cotton within the limits of their
commands, and will give the agents of the Treasury Department,
appointed to receive it, such facilities as may be necessary to enable
them to secure it.
"Any sale of this property in violation of this order will be
treated as the embezzlement of public property.
"By order of Major-General E. R. S. Canby."
On the 1st of June, 1865, F. W. Kellogg, agent of the
United States for the purchase of cotton in insurrectionary
States, entered into an agreement with Walker, of which the

following is a copy :"MOBIL, ALABAMA, June 1, 1865.
"I, Francis W. Kellogg, agent for the purchase of cotton of insurrectionary States, on behalf of the government of the United
States, at Mobile, Alabama, do hereby certify that I have agreed to
purchase from Samuel P. Walker, Esq., of Memphis, Tennessee,
thirty-five hundred bales of cotton, which, it is represented, are or
will be stored at Green, Pickens, & Marengo Co.'s, in the State of
Alabama, and with planters in the counties of Lauderdale, Noxubee, Lowndes, and Monroe, in the State of Mississippi, and which
he stipulates shall be delivered to me, unless prevented from so
doing by the authority of the United States.
"I therefore request safe conduct for the said Samuel P. Walker
and his means of transportation, and said cotton from where it is
VOL. xVw.

27

418

WALKER'S EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

stored to Mobile, where the cotton so transported is to be sold
and delivered to me, under the stipulation referred to above,
and pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury.

"F. W. KELLOGG,
" United States PurchasingAgent.

"NOTICE.- Cotton arriving at Mobile under this permit must be
promptly reported to the United States purchasing agent."
Between June 80 and Dec. 1, 1865, 1,9224. bales of this cotton (on plantations in Lowndes and other counties in Mississippi) were, by treasury agents appointed by the Secretary of
the Treasury to collect cotton which had been sold to the Confederate States, seized and sent to New York. They were
sold there, and the net proceeds covered into the treasury of
the United States.
The territory embracing the counties in Mississippi where
the cotton was stored, and where it was when seized by the
treasury agents, was occupied by the Confederates on and prior
to April 12, 1865, while Mobile and Memphis, at that date,
and until the close of the war, were occupied by the Union
forces.
The negotiations for the sale of this cotton to O'Grady took
place in the early part of the year 1865. The final conveyance was delayed until April 6, 1865, and finally completed
on that day, by reason of the ill-health of Scott, and for other
reasons.
In making sales of cotton in that section of the country, during Confederate control, the custom was to transfer the plantThat was the usual, and
ers' certificates, as if negotiable.
generally the only, mode of delivery made or required.
The Court of Claims found, as conclusions of law, that the
order of President Lincoln of March 6, 1865, was not a license
or permit which authorized Walker to purchase the cotton in
question in Mobile at the time and under the circumstances set
forth in the findings; that Walker acquired no title as against
the United States by his alleged purchase from O'Grady; and
that the claimants consequently had no cause of action against
the government,

Oct. 1882.]

WALKER'S EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

419

111r. Warner I. Bateman, with whom were Hr. Quinton Corwine and .Ir. John Pool, for the appellants.
Te Solicitor-General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
By the proclamation of the President of the United States,
issued, on the sixteenth day of August, 1861, in pursuance of
authority given by the act of July 13, 1861, c. 3, the inhabitants of Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, and other States,except that part of Virginia west of the Alleghany Mountains,
and of such other parts of that and the other States named as
might maintain a loyal adhesion to the Union, or might, from
time to time, be occupied and controlled by the Union forces,
were declared to be in a state of insurrection against the
United States; and "all commercial intercourse between the
same and the inhabitants thereof, with the exceptions aforesaid,
and the citizens of other States and other parts of the United
States," was made unlawful until the insurrection ceased or was
suppressed. The fifth section of the act provides that " The
President may, in his discretion, license and permit commercial
intercourse with any such part of said State or section, the
inhabitants of which are so declared in a state of insurrection,
in such articles, and for such time, and by such persons, as he,
in his discretion, may think most conducive to the public interest; and such intercourse, so far as by him licensed, shall be
conducted and carried on only in pursuance of rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury."
By the proclamation of April 2, 1863, the territorial excep-"
tions made in the former proclamation were revoked, except as
to West Virginia and the ports of New Orleans, Key West,
Port Royal, and Beaufort.
By the fourth section of the a'ct of July 2, 1864, c. 225, the
prohibitions and provisions of the said act of July 13, 1861,
and of the acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto,
were made to apply "to all commercial intercourse by and
between persons residing or being within districts within the
present or future lines of national military occupation, in the
States or parts of States declared in insurrection, whether with

420

WALKERS EXECUTORS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

each other or with persons residing or being within districts
declared in insurrection and not within those lines."
The eighth section of the same act makes it lawful for the
Secretary of the Treasury, with the approval of the President,
to authorize agents to purchase for the United States any
products of States declared in insurrection, at such places as
shall be designated by him.
And the ninth section proTides :-

"That so much of section five of the act of thirteenth of July,
eighteen hundred and sixty-one, aforesaid, as authorizes the Presi
dent, in his discretion, to license or permit commercial relations in
any State or section, the inhabitants of which are declared in a
state of insurrection, is hereby repealed, except so far as may be
necessary to authorize supplying the necessities of loyal persons residing in insurrectionary States within the lines of actual occupation
by the military forces of the United States, as indicated by published order of the commanding general of the department or district so occupied; and, also, except so far as may be necessary to
authorize persons residing within such lines to bring or send to
market in the loyal States any products which they shall have produced with their own labor or the labor of freedmen or others employed and paid by them, pursuant to rules relating thereto, which
may be established under proper authority. And no goods, wares,
or merchandise shall be taken into a State declared in insurrection,
or transported therein, except to and from such places, and to such
monthly amounts, as shall have been previously agreed upon in
writing by the commanding general of the department in which
such places are situated, and an officer designated by the Secretary
of the Treasury for that purpose."
From these acts, - in force on the 12th of April, 1865, when
Walker purchased from O'Grady, - it is quite clear that persons residing or being in Memphis, then occupied by the national forces, were forbidden, unless authorized by competent
authority, to have commercial intercourse with persons residing
or being in Mobile, which was at that time likewise occupied
by the national forces; this, because both cities were within
States the inhabitants whereof were declared to be in insurrection, fnd neither within the territorial exceptions made in the
proclamation of President Lincoln.

Oct. 1882.]

WALKER'S EXECUTORS

n.

UNITED STATES.

421

But it is contended that the order of President Lincoln,
given on the 6th of March, 1865, fully authorized Walker to
proceed from Memphis, his place of residence, to Mobile, after
that city had surrendered to the Union forces, and there contract with O'Grady for the purchase of the cotton in question,
then but recently the property of the Confederate States (at
least as between them and the original owners), and within the
district actually occupied and controlled by the insurgent forces.
A portion of the argument of counsel is addressed to the question whether, notwithstanding the repeal of the fifth section of
the said act of July 13, 1861, authorizing the President, in his
discretion, to license or permit commercial relations in any
State or section in insurrection, he could not, in virtue of his
power as commander-in-chief of the army, license trade with"
insurgents within the lines of Confederate military occupancy.
If this question has not been distinctly concluded by the former
decisions of this court, we deem it unnecessary now to consider
or determine it. For, plainly, the order of March 6, 1865, was
not a license to trade or have commercial intercourse with the
enemy, without limit as to amount, or without restriction as to
persons and territory. The order proceeds solely upon the
ground that Walker then owned products of the insurrectionary
States, near Grenada and Canton in Mississippi, and Montgomery and Selma in Alabama, and that he then had arrangements
with parties in the vicinity of those places for other products of
the insurrectionary States. It was in reference to such products - those he then owned, and those as to which he then had
arrangements with other parties - that the President ordered
that they should be free from seizure, detention, or forfeiture
to the United States. Now, the finding of the facts, upon
-which alone this court can act, shows that Walker did not, on
the 6th of March, 1865, own any part of the cotton in question.
It was then in the possession of the planters, who held it for
the Confederate government; and if it ever was, as against the
United States, - after its sale to the Confederate government,
to be used in aid of the rebellion, -the property of O'Grady,
from whom Walker purchased, it did not become so until April
5, 1865. Nor does it appear that this cotton constituted, at any
time, a part of the cotton with reference to which Walker had

422

WALKER'S EXECUTORS v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

"arrangements " at the time President Lincoln gave the order
of March 6, 1865. Tt is true that the court below finds that
"the negotiations for the sale of the cotton to O'Grady took
place in the early part of the year 1865, and the final conveyance delayed until April 6, 1865, and finally completed on that
day, by reason of the ill-health of Scott,(the Confederate produce-loan agent), and for other reasons." But the negotiations
here referred to were, mianifestly, not the arrangements which
Walker claimed to have had, on March 6, 1865, for products of
the insurrectionary districts. There is nothing to show that he
ever had any communication upon the subject of this cotton
with the Confederate produce-loan agent, or with O'Grady,
until after the capture of Mobile. The negotiations, which
were not completed until April 6, 1865, by reason of Scott's illhealth, and "for other reasons," were evidently those by which
Scott proposed.to sell to O'Grady, and with which Walker, it
must be assumed, had no connection whatever. The case, as it
stands, seems to be one in which the claimants seek to bring
within the operation of the order of March 6, 1865, a transaction in cotton not covered, nor intended to be covered, by it.
The contract, upon the finding of facts, must be regarded as
one made between Walker and O'Grady, in palpable violation
of the laws of the United States forbidding commercial intercourse between persons respectively residing in places occupied
by the national forces, within districts the inhabitants whereof
were declared to be in insurrection. It is, therefore, according
to the settled doctrines of this court, a contract from which
could arise, in favor of Walker, no right to the cotton, as
against the United States, which could be enforced in the
courts of the Union.
Without, therefore, giving other reasons, quite apparent upon
the record, and which would make it our duty to sustain the
judgment of the Court of Claims, we content ourselves with
affirming it upon the grounds indicated.
Judgment affirmed,

