Oct. 1882.]

COUGHLIN V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

fund and be discharged of all further liability. His dispute is
not with any one claimant separately, but with all collectively.
He insists that his liability in the aggregate does not exceed
the value of his interest in the vessel; they, that he must pay
all their several demands amount to. He does not seek to have
it determined how much he owes each one of them, but to
what extent he is liable to them collectively. The difference
between what he admits his liability to be, and the aggregate
amount of the demands against him, is the amount in dispute.
In the case of 1Te ZfIamie this difference was more than $5,000,
and we consequently took jurisdiction.
It follows that the Circuit Court properly refused to allow
the appeal, and the petition for a mandamus is therefore
-Denied.

COUGHLIN v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
1. After the adjournment without day of a term, whereat a final judgment on a
verdict was rendered by one justice of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, and an appeal taken therefrom to the general term, but no
bill of exceptions or case stated filed, a new trial cannot be granted upon
a case stated filed by him at a subsequent term.
2. When a verdict and a judgment for the plaintiff were wrongly set aside, and
the error appears of record, lie may, without a bill of exceptions, avail
himself of it upon a writ of error to reverse a final judgment afterwards
rendered against him.
3. When a judgment for the plaintiff in a personal action was erroneously set
aside, and a subsequent final judgment against him is brought up by writ
of error, pending which he dies, this court will affirm the first judgment
nunc pro hinc.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-ir. Walter D..Davidge and Hr. Reginald _endall for the
plaintiff in error.
.1r. Albert
Riddle for the defendant in error.

a.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover damages for a personal injury
sustained by reason of a defect in a highway. The Supreme

COUGHLIN V. DISTRicT OF COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Court of the District of Columbia originally held that the action could not be maintained against the defendant, and gave
judgment in its favor. But this court on writ of error reversed
that judgment and ordered a new trial. Dant v..District of
(Jolumnbia, 91 U. S. 557. Upon the present record that decision of this court must, as was assumed by both counsel at the
argument, be considered as settling the law of the case on the
question then decided.
This record shows the following proceedings: At October
Term, 1876, of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
held by one justice, a new trial was had pursuant to the mandate of this court. On the 18th of November a verdict was
returned for the plaintiff in the sum of $5,000, and judgment
rendered thereon, and the defendant moved the judge for a
new trial, because the verdict was contrary to law and the
instructions of the court, and to the evidence in the case, and
because the damages were excessive. On the 26th of December that motion was overruled. On the 5th of January, 1877,
the defendant filed this appeal: "And now comes the defendant by its attorney, and appeals from the judgment rendered
against it at this term to the general term of said court, having
first filed in said cause a statement of the case;" and on the
same day October Term, 1876, was adjourned without day.
No statement of the case was filed until the next term, at
which, on the 9th of March, 1877, a transcript of the pleadings
and of the instructions to the jury, and an abstract of all the
testimony given in the cause, were filed, with a certificate,
under the hand and seal of the judge who presided at the trial,
to their correctness, and "that, for the purpose of making a
ca~e stated on appeal by the defendant from the verdict of the
jury and the order of the justice refusing a new trial, I sign
and seal this paper, and order it to be filed as of the day of
appeal, January 5, 1877, the defendant not having been guilty
of laches in the case; that to my signing and sealing this paper
the plaintiff objects, which objection is overruled by me, and
to the overruling of which objection the plaintiff excepts."
At September Term, 1877, there was a "motion for new trial
on case stated filed in general term October 3, 1877;" and
on the 8th of December, 1877, the court in general term re-

Oct. 1882.]

COUGHLIN V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

versed the judgment below, and remanded the case to be tried
anew. At the third trial the jury returned a verdict for the
defendant, under an instruction that the plaintiff could not recover because the evidence showed contributory negligence on
his part. To this instruction he tendered a bill of exceptions,
which was allowed and made part of the record, and, after
judgment on this verdict for the defendant, was entered at a
general term of the court, which, on the 11th of November,
1878, affirmed the judgment, and on the next day the plaintiff
sued out this writ of error.
Since the entry of the case in this court the plaintiff has
died, and the action is prosecuted by his administrator.
The Revised Statutes of the United States relating to the
District of Columbia contain the following provisions: An exception taken at the trial of a cause may be reduced to writing
at the time, or "may be entered on the minutes of the justice,
and afterwards settled in such manner as may be provided by
the rules of the court, and then stated in writing in a case or
bill of exceptions, with so much of the evidence as may be
material to the questions to be raised." Sect. 803. The justice who tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a
motion, entered on his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant
a new trial upon exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or for
excessive damages; "but such motion shall be made at the
same term at which the trial was had." Sect. 804. "When
such motion is made and heard upon the minutes, an appeal to
the general term may be taken from the decision, in which
case a bill of exceptions or case shall be settled in the usual
manner." Sect. 805. "A motion for a new trial on a case
or bill of exceptions, and an application for judgment on a
special verdict or a verdict taken subject to the opinion of the
court, shall be heard in the first instance at a general term."
Sect. 806.
By the rules of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, which are made part of the record, every motion for a new
trial must be in writing, and state the grounds upon which it
is based, and be made within four days after verdict, and be
entered on the minutes of the court on the day on which it
is presented, Rule 61; "the bill of exceptions must be settled

COUGHLIN V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

before the close of the term, which may be prolonged by adjournment in order to prepare it," Rule 65; and "in every
case the fact of the settling and filing of the bill of exceptions
and that it is made part of the record shall be noted on the
minutes of the court," Rule 68.
By the statutes above quoted, although a motion for a new
trial on a case or bill of exceptions may "be heard in the first
instance at a general term," any exception stated in the case
or bill must either have been reduced to writing at the trial,
or have been then entered on the minutes of the justice, and
"afterwards settled in such manner 'as may be provided by
the rules of the court;" and those rules require it to be "settled before the close of the term."
The record in this case shows that October Term, 1876, was
adjourned without day on the 5th of January, 1877, and does
not show, otherwise than by the certificate afterwards filed by
the judge, what were his rulings in matter of law, or that any
exception to such rulings was taken by the defendant. The
only motion for a new trial made within four days after verdict, as required by the sixty-first rule, was the motion filed at
that term. Even if the court in general term could dispense
with its rules so far as to entertain an original motion for a
new trial after the time therein prescribed, and if the "motion
for a new trial upon case stated filed in general term October
3, 1877," can be deemed a distinct motion filed for the first
time in the general term, the difficulty remains that the only
case stated which appears of record is the case stated by the
judge two months after the final adjournment of the term at
which he had overruled the motion made before him for a new
trial, on the ground, among others, that the verdict for the
plaintiff was contrary to law, and had rendered judgment on
that verdict, and an appeal from his judgment had been taken
to the general term. At that stage of the case the judge could
not, without contravening the express provisions of the statutes
and the decisions of this court, present for consideration in an
appellate court questions of law which had not been made part
of the record at the term at which his judgment was rendered.
Ueneres v. Bonnemer, 7 Wall. 564. The judgment setting
aside the verdict for the plaintiff and ordering a new trial was

Oct. 1882.]

BAYLY V. UNIVERSITY.

therefore erroneous, whether it is to be treated as proceeding
upon a distinct motion filed at the general term, or upon an
appeal from the decision of the judge on the original motion
filed before him.
As the error appears on the record, no bill of exceptions was
necessary to secure the rights of the party aggrieved. Bennett
v. Butterworth, 11 How. 669. As the erroneous order directed
further proceedings in the court below, he could not bring the
case to this court until after such proceedings had been had
and a final judgment rendered against him. Baker v. White,
92 U. S. 176; Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, ante, p. 3. As without that error the final judgment could not have gone against
him, the question is open on his writ of error upon the final
judgment.
The judgment rendered upon the verdict in favor of the
plaintiff having been erroneously set aside, the subsequent final
judgment for the defendant must be reversed, and the former
judgment for the plaintiff affirmed as of the date when it was
rendered, in order to prevent the action from being abated by
the subsequent death of the plaintiff. Mitchell v. Overman,
103 U. S. 62.
Ordered accordingly.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD was not present at the argument, and

took no part in the decision of this case.

BAYLY V. UNIVERSITY.
1. A composition between a bankrupt and his creditors, under sect. 17 of the act
of June 22, 1874, c. 390, although ratified by the proper District Court, did
not discharge him from a debt or a liability incurred by him while acting
in a fiduciary character.
2. That section did not repeal sect. 5117 Rev. Stat. Wilmot v. Mudge, 103 U. S.
217, cited upon this point and approved.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

