GUTIERREZ v. GRAHAM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

GUTIERREZ DEL ARROYO v. GRAHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 129.

Submitted January 21, 1913.-Decided February 3, 1913.

Held that the instrument involved in this case was an actual contract
for purchase and sale of the land described therein and not merely

an option which expired at the time specified therein.
Accepting a lease of property described in a contract for sale thereof,
does not amount to an estoppel against enforcing the contract, if
the instrument recognizes an outstanding dispute and provides that
rights on either side shall not be affected.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for sale of real estate in Porto Rico, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Francis H. Dexter and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney
for appellants.
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill for the specific performance of a contract to
sell land, made by the defendants Gutierrez. The defendant Robledo claims under a lease from the vendors made
since the contract and found to have been taken with
notice. The District Court entered a decree for the
plaintiff, and the defendants appealed. There is also a
motion to dismiss on the ground that the principal appellants have accepted a part of the purchase money paid
into court in pursuance of the decree, but we shall not deal

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

with this because we are of opinion that the decision was
right and therefore there is no need to consider whether
the appellants are estopped by doing what they say they
were compelled to do upon penalty of being held in contempt. The motion to dismiss did not go to the jurisdiction but raised another question on the merits.
The contract was as follows, according to the translation, the original not being in the record:
Memorandum.
"In the city of San Juan, Porto Rico, the 5th day of
July, 1906, Don Rafael Gutierrez del Arroyo and Mr.
Robert Graham agreed: 1st, Don Rafael Gutierrez del
Arroyo compromised himself to sell to Mr. Robert Graham
a parcel of his estate in Pueblo Viejo, which both parties
have already fixed the boundaries of and which may extend
up to 70 or 75 cuerdas, at the price of $40.00 per cuerda.
2nd, lie also compromised himself to sell to him another
small extension of land, which they also fixed the boundaries of, and which may have an extension, approximately,
of 14 cuerdas, at the price of $50.00 per cuerda. 3rd, he
also compromised himself to sell to him other 200 or 300
cuerdas of the same estate, in that part of which, which
they have also- already designated, at the price of $55.00
per cuerda. 4th, the parcels indicated in Nos. 1 and 2
-shall be paid in cash. The parcel indicated in the 3rd
number shall be paid in installment s during the two years
following the delivery of the docinnent. Mr. (Iratani
shall not pay any interest for the extended time of payment; but Mr. Arroyo shall remain in possession ard
usufruct of the part of the estate sold and not paid for',
until the payment shall be made. Mr. Graham shall execute a mortgage on the estate to secure the payment,
5th, this contract shall be extended in a public document
as soon as Mr. Graham will have ultimated the deal which

GUTIERREZ v. GRAHAM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is now pending with Dora Felicia Fernandez about the
purchase of an undivided part in the same estate. In case
that deal should not be carried to effect, this contract will
also remain without virtue or effect.
"6th,. this contract is also dependent upon the condition
that Don Rafael Gutierrez del Arroyo could rescind the
contract of lease which he now has with Don Eleuterio
Landrau.
i"Robert Graham.
"Rafael Gutierrez del Arroyo."
The answer admits and it is found that *this agreement
was made by Rafael Gutierrez on behalf of himself and
his sister, the other principal defendant.
Subsequently the following addition was made:
"On the 27th of April, 1908, the contracting parties
make addition to the 3rd clause of this contract in he
sense that the excess of price which Mr. Graham may obtain over the $55.09 per cuerda shall be divided between
him and Mr. Arroyo at 50 per cent each.
"Robert Graham.
"Rafael Gutierrez del Arroyo."
The burden of the argument for the appellants is that
this document only gave an option which expired by time
and that the addition converted the option into a revocable agency to sell. But it appears to us that the argument
is answered by reading the instruments. They are signed
by both parties -the first and second parcels 'shall be
paid in cash'- the third 'shallf be' paid for as indi-.
cated-Mr. Graham 'shall execute a mortgage '-'this
contract' shall be extended in a public document as soon,
etc. The parties recognized the original agreement as a
contract, imposing obligations upon Graham as well as
upon Gutierrez, and not merely a promi, e by the latter.
8o the addition speaks of 'the contracting parties,' im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

plying that both contract, and is simply an undertaking
by Graham to paymore in a certain event. There is no
suggestion of agency in it, but, on the contrary, an assumption that Graham is acting on his own behalf. The
answer, although setting up the second point, as to the
effect of the addition, also recognizes the original agreement as a contract of sale and shows very plainly that
calling it an option is an afterthought.
The condition as to the lease to Landrau is admitted
not to be material now. Graham was ready to perform
the conditions imposed upon him. On August 10, 1909,
he accepted a lease of parcels one and two, and this is set
up as an estoppel against him, but it is enough to answer
that the instrument recognized an outstanding dispute as
to the land and provided that the lease should not affect
the rights on either side. So far as the defenses urged go
they point rather to unwillingness to carry out a bargain
than to any reasonable doubt. The most plausible ground
for hesitation is the indefiniteness of the boundaries. But
no such point was taken. It seems to be a common
characteristic of such agreements in Porto Rico, see Veve
v. Sanchez, 226 U. S. 234, 241, and with the aid of local
knowledge the surveyor employed by the court seems to
have had no difficulty in fixing the line.
Decree affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SCHWYHART.
ERROR TO THE KANSAS

CITY COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 132.

Argued January 21, 22, 1913.-Decided February 3, 1913.

Whether there was a joint liability of defendants sued jointly for negligence is a matter of state law and this court will not go behind the
decision of the highest court of the State to which the question can
go. Southern Railway Co. v. Miller, 217 U. S. 209.

