OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

HAMPTON v. ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN AND
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
AINPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN

DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 3. Argued October 29, 30, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.
A provision in a state statute that interstate railroads shall furnish cars
for interstate shipments'which regulates the furnishing of cars is invalid by reason of the Hepburn Act; but if it only means that there
shall be no discrimination against interstate shipments, it might, not
invalidate an act, otherwise valid, as to intrastate shipments.
The fact that an act requiring railroads to furnish cars includes no
exceptions is not conclusive of its meaning and intent; and an act
cannot be construed as not permitting any exceptions where, as in
this case, the state court has held that the penhlties are enforceable
only in an.action at law, and that as such a provision is declaratory
of the common law, any reasonable excuse may be interposed.
This court will not entertain a case where the party setting up the
unconstitutionality of a statute does not belong to the class for
whose sake the constitutional protection is given or to the class primarily affected; nor will it, at the instance of a party not belonging to
a class affected, go into an imaginary case on the groumd that the
law if unconstitutional as to one is so as to all. Hatch v. Reardon,
204 U. S. 152.
Where there was an agreement of the parties to confine the case wholly
to the question of constitutionality of the statute attacked, and
-complainant does not show that his rights protected under the Constitution have actually been invaded, but the objections suggested
are conjectural, the bill should be dismissed; and so held as to an
action brought to test the constitutionality under the commerce
clause of a statute of Arkansas requiring railroads to promptly
furnish cars.
162 Fed. Rep. 693, reversed.

THIS bill was filed for the purpose of enjoining the
bringing of actions in the state courts, in the name of the
State, to recover penalties declared by the Railroad Corn-

HAMPTON )). ST. L., IRON MT. & S. RY.
227 U. S.

457

Statement of the C.1154.

mission of the State for the violation of a statute requiring railroads to furnish cars upon the application of shippers, and forbidding discrimination between shippers in
furnishing such cars.
The facts necessary to be stated are these:
Upon a complaint duly filed, and after a full hearing, the
Railroad Commission of the State found that the railroad
company had, during every day between September 20th
and September 30th, 1907, inclusive, refused to furnish
cars upon statutory notice and request of the operators of
several coal companies operating along the line of its
railroad in the State of Arkansas, and had also, during.
the same period discriminated in favor of a coal company
which it controlled, by furnishing it with an adequate
supply of cars, although part of the coal so carried was
for sale upon the market. The requests for cars so refused
were for shipments from the mines within the State to
destinations in the same State, and were not for the purpose of intei'state transportation.
The bill charged that the Railroad Commission was
about to transmit a transcript of its proceedings to the
several state prosecuting attorneys in counties where the
railroad was situated, with an order that action should
be brought in the name of the State for the enforcement
of the penalties as provided by §§ 11 and 18 of an act of
the Arkansas Legislature of March 11, 1899 (Act-53, Laws
of 1899, pp. 82, 89, 93), being § 6804, Kirby's Digest.
The bill alleges that although engaged in operating a
railroad within the State of Arkansas, the company's
lines extended into adjacent States, and that it is therefore an interstate carrier subject to the act of Congress of
February 4, 1887, and its amendments. It charges that
by an act of the legislature of the State of Arkansas passed
April 19, 1907 (Act 193, Acts of 1907,' p. 453), the Railroad
Commission of the State is vested with authority to regulate railroads within the State, in respect to the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

227 U. IS.

furnishing cars to shippers, and that it has under that
authority promulgated order No. 346, which follows in
phraseology the provisions of § 1 of the act referred to.
It is then contended that this act of April 19, 1907, and
the order of the commission in pursuance of said first
section, constitute an exertion of the power of the State
over interstate commerce and as such are invalid. It
was averred that if the bringing of the threatened suits
was not enjoined complainant would be subjected to a
multitude of actions and to a liability for the excessive
penalties imposed by the eighteenth section of the act of
1899, being a minimum of not less than $500 for each
offense, and a maximum of as much as $3,000.
The bill denied any liability under the act, even if valid,
and presented various reasons why it had not supplied
the cars requested.
Answer was filed and issue taken upon every material
defense set up upon the merits. The cause was heard
upon bill and answer, there being no evidence upon
the matters of defense touching the merits of the
case.

The Circuit Court held the entire act of April 19, 1907,
to be null and void as an invalid invasion of the field of
interstate commerce, and accordingly enjoined its enforcement and the bringing of- the actions which the
commission had ordered.
Mr. Hal L. Norwood, Attorney General of Arkansas, and
Mr. Mauime M. Cohn for appellants, submitted:
Although the transportation of cars in interstate haul§
constitutes a very large percentage of the railroad business
of the country, the furnishing of cars, as contemplated
by the act, is still within the state power, even though the
matter of directing supply of cars for intrastate traffic may,
directly or indirectly, affect interstate transportation.
No matter, however, how extensive interstate traffic

HAMPTON v. ST. L., IRON MT. & S. RY.
227

.

.

459

Argtint for Appellants.

may be as compared with state traffic, Congress cannot
legislate upon matters committed to the States, even
though the law would tend to become more uniform if
this were done. Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463;
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 176, 180; Railway Company v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514.
Congress has not undertaken to cover the whole subject of supply of cars.
Appellee is entitled only to raise the question of unconstitutionality of the act of April 19, 1907, so far as that
is material to its case. Gas Illuminating Co. v. Lungren,
152 U. S. 200; Howard v. Stillwell, 139 U. S. 199; Telegraph
Co. v. Hall, 124 U. S. 444; Phillips Construction Co. v.
Seymour, 91 U. S. 646; Smith v. Cowdry, 1 How. 28; The
Appollon, 9 Wheat. 362.
The mere imposition of penalties by a statute, does not,
of itself, furnish a cause of action to every citizen or corporation which, in time to come, may be affected by it.
Penalties in large sums have been upheld where they
were justified by the course of conduct of the complaining
party. Corporations, especially powerful ones, can only
be reached by means of large penalties. Waters-PierceOil
Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 111; Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 208 U. S. 274; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.
274; Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; Chattanooga F. Co. v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390; Marvin v. Trout,
199 U. S. 22; National Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115;
Railway Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267; Addyston Pipe Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S. 211; N. Y. Cent. R. R. v.. United
States, 212 U. S. 481, 495.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 125, does not apply, as in
that case there was an oppressive use of state power,
amounting to a denial of justice.
The decree and the bills deal with imaginary evils which
are made the basis of need for relief. Imaginary evils
will not be confsidered in the determination of causes.

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Argumetnt for Appellnts.

227 1. S.

Commodities Clause Cases, 213 U. S. 366, 407, 408; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Angle v. Railroad
Co., 151 U. S. 1; Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 301; Doyle
v. Insurance Co., 94 U. S. 535; Brewer v. Bougher, 14 Pet.
178; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cr. 87; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386.
The interpretation which will sustain an act rather
than the contrary will be adopted. Commodities Clause
Cases, 213 U. S. 366, 407, 408; Knights Templar Co. v.
Jarman, 187 U. S. 197, 205.
The construction put upon the act by the state court
will be followed by this court. Hammond Packing Co., v.
Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322, 347; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Texas, 177 U. S. "28; Henry v. Nicholay, 95 U. S. 619;
RailroadCo. v. Adams, 181 U. S; 580.
The States and their Railroad Commissions may deal
with the subject of furnishing cars, even, though some or
all of the cars to be furnished are destined for interstate
transportation. Houston & Texas Cent. R. R. v. Mayes,
201 U. S. 321; Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Larabee Milling Co., 211
U. S. 612.
Even though Congress has the power to deal with the
whole subject of interstate commerce, in all of its phases,
down to the local supply of cars in all parts of the country,
yet there may be state police direction in reference to
matters which may eventually be covered by congressional legislation, so long as Congress has not dealt with
the matter and the state action may not amount to an
undue burden upon interstate commerce. Brig James
Gray v. Ship John Fraser, 21 How. 184; Railroad Co. v.
Fuller, 17 Wall. 560; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465;
Railway Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Railway Co. v:
Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Railway Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142;
Railway Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Gladsen v, Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53; Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton,
207 U. S. 335. See Amer. Law Rev., Sept.-Oct., 1908,
666.

HAMPTON v. ST. L., IRON MT. & S. RY.
227 U. S.

461

Argument for Appellee.

In no point of view was the Circuit Court justified in
holding that the act was unconstitutional.
So long as the cars are not loaded they are not so committed to interstate or intrastate commerce that their
destination may not be changed; and therefore the States
ought to properly deal therewith. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517; American &c. Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500; Railroad
Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; Missouri Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Larabee Milling Co., 211 U. S. 612.
Mr. Lovick P. Miles, with whom Mr. Martin L. Clardy
was on the brief, for appellee:
If the power be conceded to a State to require, under
heavy penalties, the furnishing of cars by an interstate
carrier for intrastate shipments, then, as between the
States served by such common carrier, the State exacting
the heaviest penalties will bring to its intrastate shippers
an undue proportion of the cars available to such carrier;
and likewise, if States are conceded the power to require
the furnishing of cars by interstate carriers, under heavy
penalties, to intrastate shippers, then, if the penalties
imposed by Federal authority for failure to furnish cars
for interstate traffic are less than those imposed by the
States, the carriers will devote to intrastate traffic an
undue proportion of their available cars. Section 3 of
Int. Comm. Act. See Southern Railway Co. v. United
States, 222 U. S. 20, holding that all cars of any railroad
engaged in interstate commerce were subject t6 the provisions of the Safety Appliance Act.
The Hepburn Act defines transportation as including
cars and other vehicles and all .instrumentalities and
facilities of shipment or carriage. Shepard v. Nor. Pac.
Ry, Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 770.
See also Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259, 268; Hall
v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pendleton,
122 U. S. 347; Wabash &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U.'S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

557, 573; Bowman v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465;
Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 322; Brimmer v.
Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, 81; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky,
154 U. S. 204; Houston &c. Ry. Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S.
321, 327; Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514;
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328,
334; Galv., liar. &c. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Ludwig v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 216
U. S. 146, 162.
It is the effect and not the terms or purpose of state
regulations of its local commerce that determines whether
or not they so substantially burden interstate commerce
that they violate the commercial clause of the Constitution. Shepard v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co., supra.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The single purpose of this case is to prevent the bringing
of actiois at law in the name of the State and by order of
the State Railroad Commission to recover penalties prescribed by the Arkansas act of March 11, 1899, §§ 11
and 18, for the violation of the provisions of § 11 of the
act referred to, and of § 1 of the act of April 19, 1907.
The case turned below upon the single question of the
constitutionality of the act of April 19, 1907, being an act
entitled, "An Act to regulate freight transportation by
railroad companies doing business in the State of Arkansas." The only parts of that act here in any way involved
are the first paragraph of the first section, and the last
clause in the seventeenth section. The paragraph of the
first section is the legislative authority under which the
Commission finds power to make its order No. 346, concerning the duty of carriers to furnish cars upon the demand of shippers, its said order being in the very words
of that paragraph, as follows:

HAMPTON v. ST. L., IRON MT. & S. RY.
227 U. S.

.163

Opinion of the Court.

"That when a shipper makes a written application to
the station agent of a railroad company for a car or cars,
to be loaded with any kind of freight embraced in the
'tariff of said company, stating in said application the
character of freight, and its final destination, the railroad
company shall furnish same at the place of shipment
within six days from 7 o'clock A. M. the day following such
application."
The clause concluding the seventeenth section of the
act is in these words:
"Interstate railroads shall furnish cars on application
for interstate shipments the same in all respects as other
cars to be furnished by intrastate railroads under the
provisions of this Act."
The order of the Commission directed the bringing of
actions against the defendant in error for the wilful violation of the provisions of § 1, set out above, and also for
an illegal discrimination under § 11 ofthe act of March 11,
1899, referred to above. That section forbids any discrimination or preference in furnishing cars and requires equal
facilities to all under like circumstances and conditions.
By agreement of the parties, recited in the decree below,
and repeated in the memorandum opinion filed by the
Circuit Judge, every question was eliminated from the case
except the constitutionality of the act of 1907. The issue
for our consideration by this action of the parties is very
succinctly stated by Judge Treiber, who presided in the
Circuit Court, in these words (p. 694):
"In the argument counsel agreed that the only question
necessary for a final determination of this cause is the
constitutionality of the act of the General Assembly of
the State of Arkansas, No. 193, approved April 19, 1907,
entitled, 'An Act to regulate freight transportation by
railroad companies doing business in the state of Arkansas,' and, if unconstitutional, that the injunction may be
made perpetual."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The court then adds:
"The court holds the act is unconstitutional upon two
grounds: 1. By the last sentence of section 17 it is clearly
shown that the intention of the Legislature was to apply
its provisions to interstate shipments as fully as to intrastate shipments, and there is nothing in the act to indicate
that the act would have been passed unless it cotld thus
be made applicable. This is clearly an interference with
interstate commerce, and, as this provision cannot be
disregarded without defeating one of the main objects of
the act, it, is unconstitutional. 2. The requirement to
furnish the cars is absolute and makes no exceptions for
cases of a sudden congestion of traffic, actual inability to
furnish cars by reason of their temporary detention in
other states or in other places within the same state,
none for interference of traffic occasioned by wrecks, accidents, or strikes. Houston &c. R. R. v. Mayes, 201 U. S.
321 is conclusive.
"For these reasons the temporary injunction heretofore
granted will be made. perpetual as to proceedings by defendants under the act of April 19, 1907, but the injunction
is not to apply to any acts by defendants under any other
statutes of the State. Let there be a decree accordingly."
Neither have counsel for appellees in this court presented any question other than that of the unconstitutionality of the act- of 1907. We shall, therefore, for thc
purposes of this case assume thai the railroad company
did fail and refuse to furnish cars as requested and that
it also favored a coal company in which it was interested,
and that it rests its defense upon the invalidity of the
act of 1907.
The attack upon that act turned upon two propositions.
a. That the clause of the seventeenth section, set out
above, manifests an intention that the act shall apply as
well to interstate shipments as to intrastate shipments,
and that this purpose invalidates the whole act, as there

HAMPTON v. ST. L., IRON MT. & S. RY.
227 U. S.

465

Opinion of the Court.

is nothing to justify the court in saying that the valid
parts of the act would have been passed without the invalid parts.
b. That the requirement to furnish cars found in the
first section is absolute and that no excuse arising from
the detention of the company's cars upon other and connecting lines of railroad in and out of the State, nor for
delays due to sudden emergencies, unusual congestion of
traffic, catastrophes or other unavoidable and unusual
conditions without fault, is a defense against the penalty
imposed for failure to supply cars as required.
Coming first to the clause in the seventeenth section
which the court below held invalidated the whole act:
That clause probably means no more than that there
shall be no discrimination against demands for cars for
interstate shipments. If, however, it be construed' as extending-the act so as to regulate the furnishing of cars for
interstate shipments, it would be invalid by reason of the
provisions of the Hepburn Amendment to the act to
regulate commerce of June 29, 1906: Chicago, R'. I. & P. R.
Co. v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426.
The effect of this upon the remainder of the act has not
been considered in the briefs of appellee, further than to
say that in Oliver v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 89 Arkansas, 466, decided pending this appeal, the Supreme Court
of the State has held the act valid as including an elaborate and workable scheme for the regulation of intrastate
railroad traffic, irrespective of the invalidity of the clause
referred to. We shall therefore assume the remainder of
the act to be valid, although the clause in question be
regarded as invalid.
Neither is the requirement of the act as to the duty of
furnishing cars absolute, as held by the court belo'w. That,
the act upon its face includes no exceptions or excuses is
not conclusive of its meaning and intent. The case of
Housln & 7'. C. R. Co. v. Maye., 201 U. S. 321, is not
voL. ccxxvH--30

OCTOBER. TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

controlling. The dereliction there involved was in the
failure to furnish cars for an interstate shipment, under
a Texas statute which required the carrier to furnish cars
upon six days' notice, with a provision that the law should
not "apply in cases of strikes or other calamity." This
court concluded that the inclusion of a particular exception, excluded all others, and that an absolute requirement
that a railroad shall furnish a certain number of cars at
a specific day, regardless of every other consideration
"except strikes and other public calamities" amounted
to a burden upon interstate commerce. The court added
(p. 329), "It makes no exception in cases of a sudden
congestion of traffic, an actual inability to furnish cars
by reason of their temporary and unavoidable detention
in other States, or in other places within the same State,"
etc.
But the penalties imposed by the act here involved are
enforceable only in an action at law, and in such an action
the Supreme Court of the State has held that such a
statutory provision is but declarative of the common law,
and that any reasonable excuse for a failure to furnish
cars upon the requirement of a shipper, may be interposed.
St. Louis S. W; Railway v. Clay County Gin Co., 77 Arkansas, 357; St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. State, 85 Arkansas, 311;.
Oliver v. Railroad, 89 Arkansas, 466, 470. In the case last
cited the Arkansas court said of this provision of the act
of 1907, that,
"The failure to furnish cars under the terms of the act
under investigation will establish prima facie a breach of
duty on the part of the railroad companies. This will not
preclude their right to set up such defense as will excuse
or justify the failure. That a fair division of cars with
interstate business made it impossible to answer all demands made for cars for intrastate business would apparently be within the limit, of proper defenses in cases of
demands too unusual to be foreseen; and, viewed in this

HAMPTON v. ST. L., IRON MT. & S. RY.
227 U. S.

467

Opinion of the Court.

way, th act is relieved of the imputation of burdening
interstate commerce."
In the case of Railroad v. State, cited above, the excuse
for failure to furnish cars upon the requirement of a shipper
was that it was unable to do so because, while its car
equipment was ample for all the demands of its traffic,
it had, at the time when it made default, lost control of
a majority of its cars through the fact that they had been
sent beyond its own line in interstate commerce, and it
had been unable to secure their prompt return through the
inefficiency of the rules and regulations of the American
Railway Association, of which it was a member. Although
it appeared that ninety per cent. of all the railroad companies in the United States were members of that association and permitted interchange of cars with connecting
railroads, and the company was powerless to correct the
rules and regulations of that association or supervise
their enforcement, the Arkansas court held that the detention of its cars upon other lines of railroad in the course
of its interstate business afforded no reason for its failure
to supply cars in the particular case under consideration.
The case was reversed by this court, 217 U. S. 136, 147;
when the court, among other things, said:
"As the penalty, which the court sustained, was enforced solely because of its conclusion as to the inefficiency
of the rules and regulations of the American Railway
Association, which governed ninety per cent. of the railroads in the United States, the court was evidently not
unmindful that the carrier before it was powerless of its
own motion to change the rules thus generally prevailing,
and therefore was necessarily either compelled to desist
from the interchange of cars with connecting carriers for
the purpose of the movement of interstate commerce, or
to conduct such business with the certainty of being subjected to the penalties which the state statute provided
for."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

And the court further said (p. 149):
"The ruling of the court below involved necessarily
the assertion of power in the State to absolutely forbid
the efficacious carrying on of interstate commerce, or,
what is equivalent thereto, to cause the right to efficiently
conduct such commerce to depend upon the willingness of
the company to be subjected to enormous pecuniary penalties as a condition of the exercise of the right."
The cases referred to make it clear that the statutory
duty of furnishing cars upon the reasonable notice of a
shipper is not absolute, and that the legislature did not
intend to impose upon railroad companies the duty of
furnishing cars to a particular shipper regardless of its
equal duty to other shippers, state and interstate, or to a
situation due to some unusual and unavoidable condition
which made it unreasonable that it should, be penalized
for non-compliance; and also that if in the administration
of the statute a ruling is made by the state court in respect
to an excuse for non-compliance which operates as a restraint upon interstate commerce, a Federal 'question
arises which may be reviewed by this court.
The conclusion we reach is that the railroad company,
asthe case is presented by the pleadings, the agreement
of the parties and the ruling of the court below, is making
an effort to test the constitutionality of the act of 1907,
without showing that in the operation of the act interstate
commerce has been illegally restrained or burdened, or
that any defense which it may have for the neglect to
comply with the provisions of the act hs to furnishing
cars has been or will be denied by virtue of its obligation
as an interstate railroad. The objectio'ns which are suggested in the bill are .conjectural and academic. The
excuse made by the bill for its refusal to furnish the cars
requested and for its illegal discrimination were put in
issue by the answer and not proved. In Hatch v. Recadn,
204 IT. S.152, 160, it is said:

WELLS, VARGO & CO. v. NEIMAN-MARCUS CO.
227 U: S.

469

Syllabus.

"That unless the party setting up the unconstitutionality of the state law belongs to the class for whose sake the
constitutional protection is given, or the class primari ly
protected, this court does not listen to his objections,
and will not go into imaginary cases, notwithstanding the
seeming logic of the position that it must do so, because
if for any reason, or as against any class embraced, the law
is unconstitutional, it is void as to all. Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, 311; Clark v. Kansas City, 176 U. S,
114, 118; Lampa&as v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276, 283, 284; Cronin
v. Adams, 192 U. S. 108, 114. If the law is valid when
confined to the class of the party before the court, it
may be more or less of a speculation to inquire what
exceptions the state court may read into general words, or
how far it may sustain an act that partially fails."
This principle has been applied in many cases, among
them: Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 60; The Winnebago,
205 U. S. 354, 360; Citizens Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S.
443; Southern Railway v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 271.
The result is that the decree must be reversed and the
case remanded with direction to dismiss the bill.

WELLS, FARGO & COMPANY v. NEIMANMARCUS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 29.

Argued November 5, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Whether void or not, under the state statute, a provision in an express
receipt limiting recovery in case of loss or negligence, is valid as to
interstate shipments under the Carmack Amendment if fairily made
for i he purpose'of applying to the shipment i he lower f two rat'a

