OCTOBERI TK,10-

IOU

(Counsel for Appebiv-'.

227 '. ,;.

It is true that in the opinion of the Ilustits Court i is
inadvertently said that of the opportunities afforded by
the act for curing any wrong he had "availed himself."
It is likely that. the word "not" has been accidentally
onitted. This we say because the brief of the defendant,
in error says that he did not appeal to the city council
and in the brief of the plaintiff in error this is adhnitted.
In addition, we add that there is no evidence that he in
any way appeared or pointed out any injustice done him.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR concurs in 'the result.

UNITED STATES v. MASON, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIRS.'
No. 537.

Submitted December 20, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Section 5 of the act of April 16, 1908, 35 Stat. 61, c. 345, providing for
rank and pay of retired officers of the Revenue-Cutter Service held
not to give in this case an additional step forward to a retired officer
who had already been advanced one step gratuitoi. ly.
The court in this case follows the construction of the statute by the
officers of the Treasury Department.
46 Ct. Cl. 393, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the act of
April 16, 1908, and the amount of pay due thereunder to
an officer in the Revenue-Cutter Service, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. George M. Anderson for the United States.
Mr. Francis P. B. Sands for appellee.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
22', li..

Opinin of the Court.

Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
Mi. JUSTICE LURTON.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court. of
Claims allowing the executor of the late Captain Thomas
Mason the difference between his pay as retired Junior
Captain in the Revenue-Cutter Service and the pay of a
Senior Captain in the same service, for the time between
the passage of the act of April 16, 1908, 35 Stat. 61, c. 145,
and his death, September 10, 1910.
The provision of the fifth section of the act referred to
i:in these words:
That any officer of the Revenue-Cutter Service with
a creditable record who served during the civil war in the
land or naval forces of the United States shall, when
retired, have the rank and receive three-fourths of the
duty pay and increase of the next higher grade; and the
provisions of this section shall apply to officers of the said
Scrvice now on the retired list."
Mason had served with credit during the Civil War in
the naval service of the United States. He was therefore
within the provision of the section set out, and the only
question is whether under that provision his advance in
grade and in pay is to be made upon the grade he held
when he was retired or upon the grade and pay he had
wyhen this act was approved.
Ie had been retired as of May 3, 1895, while holding
Ihe rank of First Lieutenant in the Revenue-Cutter Service, with one-half of the pay of a First Lieutenant on the
, (,tive list, under the act of March 2, 1895, 28 Stat. 910,
920, c. 189. By the act of April 12, 1902, ยง 9, 32 Stat.
100, 101, c. 501, he and all other officers upon the retired or permanent waiting list, were given seventy-five
per cent. of the duty pay of the rank they had when retired. By a special act of February 25, 1905, 33 Stat.
813, c. 796, he was advanced "one orade from first lieu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

tenant to that of captain," for meritorious acts while in
the service of the, navy and of the Revenue-Cutter Service
of the United States, but with no increase in pay by the
advance in grade thereby authorized.
The only trouble about the meaning of the act arises
out of the exceptional fact that the decedent had after
his retirement been advanced one grade in rank but without any advance in pay by reason of 'that advancement.
The act obviously meant to provide that every RevenueCutter officer then on the active list should upon retirement advance one step in grade with three-fourths of the
duty pay of the advanced grade. The same benefit was
also extended to officers already on the retired list. But
in both cases the advance in grade is to be based upon
that held at the date of retirement with three-fourths of
the pay of the advanced grade.
The claim that the decedent's advance in grade and pay
is to be upon the grade to which he had been advanced
without additional pay, is without merit. To concede it
would be. to conclude that Congress intended to advance
I Am not upon the grade he had at retirement but upon the
gratuitous advancement, and that Congress purposed to
advance him one other step over that which he had at retirement and two steps in pay. The basis of the gratuity
of Congress was the grade and pay at retirement. This
was the construction placed upop the act by the Auditor
of the Treasury Department and the Comptroller of the
Treasury.
Judgment reversed and case remanded with direction to
dismiss the petition.

