OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Syllabus.

INTERSTATE
LOUISVILLE
COMPANY.

227 U. S.

v.
COMMISSION
COMMERCE
AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 600.

Argued October 17, 18, 1912.-Decided January 20, 1913.

The Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the Hepburn Act, gives
a right to a full hearing on the subject of rates, and that confers the
privilege of introducing testimony and imposes the duty of deciding
in accordance with the facts proved.
A finding without evidence is arbitrary and useless, and an act of
Congress granting authority to any body to make a finding without
evidence would be inconsistent with justice and an exercise of arbitrary power condemned by the Constitution.
Administrative orders quasi-judicial in character are void if a hearing
is denied; if the hearing granted is manifestly unfair; if the finding
is indisputably contrary to the evidence; or if the facts found do not,
as matter of law, support the order made.
Administrative orders can only be reviewed by the court where a
justiciable question is presented, and where the act provides for
judicial review of such orders it will be construed as providing for
a hearing so that the court may consider matters within the scope of
judicial power.
Under the Act to Regulate Commerce the carrier retains the primary
right to make rates, and the power of the Commission to alter them
depends upon the existence of the fact of their unreasonableness, and,
in the absence of evidence to that effect,-the Commission has no
jurisdiction.
The legal effect of evidence is a question of law, and a finding without
evidence is beyond the jurisdiction of the Commission.
Where the party affected is entitled to a hearing, the Interstate Commerce Commission cannot base an order establishing a rate on the
information which it has gathered for general purposes under the
provisions of § 12 of the act. The order must be based on evidence
produced in the particular proceeding.
In this case, the Interstate Commerce Commission having found, after

INT. COM. COMM. v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
227 U. S.

89

Opinion of the Court.

taking evidence, that the new rates were excessive and that the
through rate which exceeded the sum of the locals should have been
lowered, instead of the locals being raised to equal the through rate,
this court holds that the finding, having been based on evidence,
should not be disturbed and that the order of the Commission was
proper.
The value of evidence in rate proceedings varies, and the weight to be
given to it is peculiarly for the body experienced in regard to rates
and familiar with the intricacies of rate-making.
When rail rates are advanced with the disappearance of water competition no inference adverse to the railroad can be drawn, but when the
old rates had been maintained for several years after such disappearance, there is a presumption, if the rates are raised, that the advance is made for other reasons.
In this case the order of the Commission restoring local rates that had
been in force many years between New Orleans and neighboring
cities and making a corresponding reduction in through rates was
not arbitrary but was sustained by substantial, although conflicting,
evidence, and the courts cannot settle such a controversy or put
their judgment against that of the Commission which is the ratemaking body.

facts, which involve the construction of the Act to
Regulate Commerce in regard to the provisions of the Hepburn Act for fixing rates, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler and Mr. P. J.
Farrell, with whom Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone and
Mr. Albert S. Brandeis were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTcIE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

The New Orleans Board of Trade, in October and November, 1907, brought three separate proceedings against

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

the Louisville & Nashville Railroad, asking the Commerce
Commission to set aside as unfair, unreasonable and discriminatory certain class and commodity rates (local)
from New Orleans to (1) Mobile, to (2) Pensacola, and
(3) through rates, via those cities, to Montgomery,
Selma, and Prattville. The Railroad answered. A hearing
was had, the issue as to commodity rates was adjusted
by agreement, and on December 31, 1909, the Commission
made a single order in which it found the class rates
complained of to be unreasonable, directed the old locals
to be restored and a corresponding reduction made in
the through rates. The Railroad thereupon, on January 26,
1910, filed a bill, in the United States Circuit Court
for the Western District of Kentucky, praying that
the Commission be enjoined from enforcing. this order,
which it alleged was arbitrary, oppressive and confiscatory,
and deprived the company of its property and right to
make rates, without due process of law.
After a hearing before three Circuit Court judges, the
carrier's application for a temporary injunction was denied
(184 Fed. Rep. 118). Testimony was then taken before
an Examiner. Later the suit was transferred to the newly
organized Commerce Court-the United States being
made a party. There, in addition to the evidence in the
Circuit Court, the Railroad exhibited all that had been
introduced before the Commission, as a basis for the contention that this evidence utterly failed to show that the
rates attacked were unreasonable. This view was sustained by the Commerce Court, which, in a lengthy
opinion, held (one judge dissenting) that the order was
void because there was no material evidence to support it.
On the appeal here, the Government insisted that while
the act of 1887 to regulate commerce (24 Stat. 379, c. 104,
§§ 14, 15, 16) made the orders of the Commission only
primafaciecorrect, a different result followed from the provision in the Hepburn Act of 1906 (34 Stat. 584, c. 359 ,

INT. COM. COMM. v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
227 U. S.

91

Opinion of the Court.

§ 15) that rates should be set aside if after a hearing the
"Commission shall be of the opinion that the charge was
unreasonable." In such case it insisted that the order
based on such opinion is conclusive, and (though Int.
Com. Comm. v. Union Pacific R. R., 222 U. S. 541, 547,
was to the contrary) could not be set aside, even if the
finding was wholly without substantial evidence to support it.
1. But the statute gave the right to a full hearing, and
that conferred the privilege of introducing testimony,
and at the same time imposed the duty of deciding in
accordance with the facts proved. A finding without
evidence is arbitrary and baseless. And if the Government's contention is correct, it would mean that the
Commission had a power possessed by no other officer,
administrative body, or tribunal under our Government.
It would mean that where rights depended upon facts,
the Commission could disregard all rules of evidence, and
capriciously make findings by administrative fiat. Such
authority, however beneficently exercised in one-case,
could be injuliously exerted in another; is inconsistent
with rational justice, and comes under the Constitution's
condemnation of all arbitrary exercise of power.
In the comparatively few cases in which such questions
have arisen it has been distinctly recognized that administrative orders, quasi-judicial in character, are void if a
hearing was denied; if that granted was inadequate or
manifestly unfair; if the finding was contrary to the
"indisputable character of the evidence." Tang Tun v.
Edsell, 223 U. S. 673, 681; Chin Yoh v. United States,
208 U. S. 8, 13; Low Wah Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S. 460,
468; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272; or, if the facts
found do not, as a matter of law, support the order made.
United States v. B. & 0. S. W. R. R., 226 U. S. 14. Cf.
Atlantic C. L. v. North CarolinaCorp. Com. 206 U. S. 1, 20;
Wisconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 301;

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Oregon Railroad v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510; I. C. C. v.
Illinois Central, 215 U. S. 452, 470; Southern Pacific
Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 219 U. S. 433; Muser v.
Magone, 155 U. S. 240, 247.
2. The Government's claim is not only opposed to the
ruling in I. C. C. v. Union Pacific, 222 U. S. 541, 547, and
the cases there cited, but is contrary to the terms of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, which, in its present form,
provides (25 Stat. 861, § 17) for methods of procedure
before the Commission that "conduce to justice." The
statute, instead of making its orders conclusive against
a direct attack, expressly declares that "they may be suspended or set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction."
36 Stat. 539 (15). Of course, that can only be done in
cases presenting a justiciable question. But whether
the order deprives the carrier of a constitutional or statutory right; whether the hearing was adequate and fair,
or whether, for any reason, the order is contrary to laware all matters within the scope of judicial power.
3. Under the statute the carrier retains the primary
right to make rates, but if, after hearing, they are shown
to be unreasonable, the Commission may set them aside
and require the substitution of just for unjust charges.
The Commission's right to act depends upon the existence
of this fact, and if there was no evidence to show that the
rates were unreasonable, there was no jurisdiction to make
the order. Int. Com. Comm. v. Northern Pacific Ry., 216
U. S. 536, 544. In a case like the present the courts will not
review the Commission's conclusions of fact (Int. Com.
Comm. v. Delaware &c. Ry., 220 U. S. 235, 251), by passing
upon the credibility of witnesses, or conflicts in the testimony. But the legal effect of evidence is a question of
law. A finding without evidence is beyond the power of
the Commission. An order based thereon is contrary to
law and must, in the language of the statute, "be set
aside by a court of competent jurisdiction." 36 Stat. 551.

INT. COM. COMM. v. LOUIS. & NASH. R., R.
227 U. S.

93

Opinion of the Court.

4. The Government further insists that the Commerce
Act (36 Stat. 743) requires the Commission to obtain information necessary to enable it to perform the duties and
carry out the objects for which it was created, and having
been given legislative power to make rates it can act, as
could Congress, on such information, and therefore its
findings must be presumed to have been supported by
such information, even though not formally proved at the
hearing. But such a construction would nullify the right
to a hearing,-for manifestly there is no hearing when the
party does not know what evidence is offered or considered and is not given an opportunity to test, explain, or
refute. The information gathered under the provisions
of § 12 may be used as basis for instituting prosecutions
for violations of the law, and for many other purposes,
but is not available, as such, in cases where the party is
entitled to a hearing. The Commission is an administrative body and, even where it acts in a quasi-judicial
capacity, is not limited by the strict rules, as to the admissibility of evidence, which prevail in suits between
private parties. Int. Com. Comm. v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25.
But the more liberal the practice in admitting testimony,
the more imperative the obligation to preserve the essential rules of evidence by which rights are asserted or defended. In such cases the Commissioners cannot act upon
their own information as could jurors in primitive days.
All parties must be fully apprised of the evidence submitted or to be considered, and must be given opportunity
to cross-examine witnesses, to inspect documents and to
offer evidence in explanation or rebuttal. In no other
way can a party maintain its rights or make its defense.
In no other way can it test the sufficiency of the facts to
support the finding; for otherwise, even though it appeared
that the order was without evidence, the manifest deficiency could always be explained on the theory that
the Commission had before it extraneous, unknown but

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

presumptively sufficient information to. support the finding. United States v. Baltimore & Ohio S. W. R. R., 226
U. S. 14.
As these contentions of the Government must be overruled, it is necessary to examine the record with a view of
determining whether there was substantial evidence to
support the order.
5. The Louisville & Nashville Railroad ran from New
Orleans to Mobile and to Pensacola. From both of these
cities it also had lines extending to Montgomery. When
the road from Mobile to New Orleans was completed
about 1871 there was in operation a boat line carrying
freight from the latter city to Mobile and Pensacola. In
order to meet this water competition a low rail rate was
compelled and was put in force by the rail carrier.
In 1887 the through rate from New Orleans to Montgomery was adjusted so as to conform to an award by
Judge Cooley, under which, rates from certain Ohio River
points to Montgomery were to be the same, irrespective
of any difference in distance. Rates to Montgomery from
Kentucky points on the Mississippi were to be two cents
lower, and rates to Montgomery from Memphis, Vicksburg and New Orleans were to be two cents lower still.
With the exception of a change made necessary by the
construction of a short line from Memphis to Birmingham,
the class rates in that territory were, as a rule, maintained
in conformity with the Cooley award, though, from time
to time, commodity rates were made to meet special
conditions.
Changes in rates from New Orleans to Mobile, to Pensacola, and from those cities to Montgomery were made in
1907. The carrier insists that the situation at Pensacola
was not the same as at Mobile. But the controlling principle is applicable to the rates at all the points involved.
And in order to prevent a treble discussion of the three
cases the rates from New Orleans to Mobile to AU Agom-

INT. COM. COMM. v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R
.227 U. S.

95

Opinion of thei Court.

ery may be regarded as typical. The increase in Class
rates varied from 1 to 13 cents per 100 pounds. The increase in Class 3 was greatest, and it will therefore be
taken as affording the best concrete example of the situation before and after the change of 1907.
Under the Cooley award the Tariff on Class 3 had been
fixed as follows:
New Orleans to Mobile (local) . . 25
30
Mobile to Montgomery (local) .
55
Combination of locals..........
But while these locals aggregated only 55 cents, there
was, at the same time, a through rate:
New Orleans to Montgomery..... 68
The carrier's filed tariffs contained a provision that
wherever the rates between two points, on its line, was
greater than the sum of the locals between the same places
the combination of the two locals should be collected.
There was nothing to indicate that shipments from New
Orleans to Montgomery were not entitled to this Combination rate; but it seems that the privilege was rarely, if ever,
granted to New Orleans merchants who, in order to get
the advantage of the low locals (25), were obliged to ship
to Mobile, there unload, reload and rebill to Montgomery
at the 30 cent rate. By this inconvenient method they
could secure the 55-cent rate to Montgomery. Otherwise,
they paid the rate of 68 cents on the same goods over the
same line between the same points.
The carrier was notified that this practice was in violation of the Commission's ruling that, except in special
cases, the through rate must not exceed the sum of the
locals. An enforcement of this rule would have compelled the carrier to reduce the through rate (68) to the
sum of the locals (55), and so, in less proportion, as to all
other class rates involved in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The company, however, met the situation by increasing
the local, instead of reducing the through rate. For example, the rate on Class 3 from New Orleans to Mobile
was-raised from 25 to 38, so that, when added to the 30cent rate from Mobile to Montgomery the Combination
68 equalled the existing through rate of 68 cents from
New Orleans to Montgomery. Similar action was taken
as to all other rates between New Orleans and Mobile and
New Orleans and Pensacola and thence to Montgomery.
At the hearing the facts thus recited were established.
The reports of the carrier, showing its earnings and expenses in detail, were in evidence. Its tariffs and those of
other railroads were offered, as a basis for comparing the
rates under attack with those charged by this and other
companies for similar and longer distances. Numerous
merchants from New Orleans testified that. since the increase of August 13, 1907, they had been unable to sell in
Mobile and Pensacola and that the through rate to
Montgomery made it impossible to deal in that city. In
its report the Commission found that the rates to Mobile,
Pensacola and Montgomery from other and more distant
points were actually or relatively higher than those for
the shorter distance from New Orleans. That the tonmile rate on the average of the first six classes was greater
from New Orleans to Montgomery than from Memphis;
that many departures had been made from the Cooley
award; that, the company's tariff containea a provision
that the through rates should not exceed the sum of the
locals; that while increasing the local on eastbound freight
from New Orleans to Mobile and Pensacola no corresponding increase had been made on the westbound freight
from those points to New Orleans;, that the old low local
out of New Orleans had been so long in force as to create
a presumption that it was reasonable and compensatory.
It concluded by entering an order adjudging that the rates
in the tariff filed August 13, 1907, were unreasonable and

INT. COM. COMM. v. LOUIS, & NASH. R. R.
227 U. S.

97

Opinion of the Court.

directing the carrier to restore the old class rates (local)
from New Orleans to Mobile and to Pensacola and to
make a corresponding reduction in the through rates from
New Orleans to Montgomery, Selma and Prattville.
This order was attacked generally and specially by
a
bill, which, at length and in minute detail, assailed each
specific fact stated in the report on the ground, either that
the fact found was without evidence to support it, or that
it was irrelevant to the issue involved and furnished no
basis whatever for the order which followed.
The Commerce Court rendered a lengthy and elaborate
opinion in which it reviewed all of the matters referred to
in the Commission's Report and held that the findings
were irrelevant, or without evidence to support them, or
contrary to the uncontradicted testimony; that the fact
that rates from more distant points to Montgomery,
Pensacola and Mobile were actually or relatively lower
than from New Orleans to the same points, furnished no
basis for the order, unless it was shown that the conditions
were similar while it affirmatively appeared that these
lower rates were compelled by water competition; that no
conclusion could be drawn from the fact that such rates
to Montgomery from other points were lower on the tonmile basis, in view of the universal rule that the longer the
haul the lower the rate. That the departures from the
Cooley award related only to commodity rates, which were
not involved in this hearing, and that the complaints of
the merchants as to inability to sell in Mobile, Pensacola
and Montgomery were referable only to Commodity rates
and not to Class rates. It found that no legal inference
could be drawn from the fact that the low locals had been
maintained on westbound shipments after the carrier, on
August 13, 1907, raised the locals on eastbound shipments
from New Orleans to Mobile and Pensacola, inasmuch as
there is no legal objection to having lower rates in one
direction than in another. It found tlhat the sole ground
VoL. ccxxvi-7

OCTOBEI

TEII\L

1912.

Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

for making the order was the fact that the carrier had
raised rates after they had been iii force for more Ihan
twenty years; although the presumption of reasonableness
disappeared in view of the uncontradictcd testimony that
the old rates had been compelled by water competition.
6. It is' unnecessary in this case to review each of the
matters discussed, ruled and found by the Commission in
its Report and only the more salient facts will be mentioned. For the validity of the order does not necessarily
depend upon the correctness of each of these findings, so
that the breaking of one or many links by disproof would
destroy the chain upon which the order depended. These
findings are collateral and if correct might be confirmatory
of the ruling, which, however, might still be sustained if
some of these statements were eliminated. The question
is whether 'there was substantial evidence to support the
order.
7. The pleadings charged that the new rates were unjust
int themselves and by comparison with others. This was
denied by the carrier. The Commission considered evidence and made findings relating to rates which the carrier
-insists had been contpelled by competition, and were not a
proper standard by which to measure those here involved.
The value of such evidence necessarily varies according to
circumstances, but the weight to be given it is peculiarly
for the body experienced in such matters -and familiar
with the complexities, intricacies and history of ratemaking in each section of the country. So, too, the. fact
that a Commodity rate is low may cast some light on the
reasonableness of the higher rate on the Class, from which
that Commodity was taken or to which it might legally
be restored.
It is true that the old low locals, Mobile (west) to New
Orleans were maintained, while those from New Orleans
(east) to Mobile were raised is not conclusive against the
reasonableness of new tariff put in force in 1907. But it

INT. COM. COMM. v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
227 U. S.

99

Opinion of the Court.

was a fact tending to support the conclusion unless the
difference was shown to have been warranted by proper
rate-making rules. Of the sufficiency of the explanation,
including the extent of the difference in empty car movement, the Commission was authorized to judge. It also
had before it the company's financial statement and
general tariff sheets. Against which was the testimony
for the carrier, tending to prove that the rate to New
Orleans was low in fact, and by comparison with those in
force over other parts of the carrier's system, and on other
lines in the same territory, even though this particular
part of the road ran through a sparsely settled country,
with expensive trestles and bridges, frequently damaged
by storms from the Gulf and expensive to maintain.
8. But these facts did not stand alone. It appeared
that for many years prior to 1907 the carrier had maintained low locals from New Orleans to Mobile and Pensacola. When first put in force they were abnormally low
because compelled by water competition, and therefore
furnish no just standard of reasonableness. And if when
that competition disappeared the rates had been advanced,
no inference adverse to the railroad could have been drawn
from the increase. Int. Com. Comm. v. Chicago G. W. Ry.,
209 U. S. 108. The answer of the Railroad Company
admits that this water competition had ceased to exist.
The date is not definitely stated, but it is fairly inferable
that the water competition was not potential for some
years before the increase in rates in 1907. When made,
the increase was not because of the absence of water
competition, but to make the sum of the locals correspond
with the through rates. Under the circumstances the
maintenance of these low rates, after the water competition
disappeared, tends to support the theory that by an
increase of business or other cause they had become
reasonable and compensatory.
9. From the appellee's standpoint, probably a principal

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

objection to the order complained of, is that it will upset
the Cooley award, under which rates have been adjusted
throughout a large section. But that, too, was a matter
for consideration by the Commission -which by this order
has not lost power to restore the old rates, or to make
changes in the new if it shall be found that those put in
force, unjustly discriminate in favor of New Orleans
against other cities.
The order of the Commission, restoring a local rate
that had been in force for many years, and making a
corresponding reduction in the through rate, was not
arbitrary but sustained by substantial, though conflicting
evidence. The courts cannot settle the conflict nor put
their judgment against that of the rate-making body, and
the decree is
Reversed.

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE COMPANY OF LONDON
v. QUINTANA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

PORTO RICO.
No. 280.

Argued January 6, 7, 1913.-Decided January 27, 1913.

Ordinarily the granting or refusing of a continuance is within the discretion of the trial court and will only be interfered with by this court
in a clear case of abuse; but in this case the assertion of error based
upon the refusal to continue has some foundation, and is not merely
frivolous, so the motion to affirm is denied.
Section 953, Rev. Stat., confers authority on, and makes it the duty of,
a judge of the Federal court to settle controversies concerning the
bill of exceptions in a case tried before his successor who is, by reason
of death or disability, unable to do so; and this applies to the judge
of the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico.
While it is the duty of plaintiff in error to obtain the appr6val of the
bill of exceptions by the judge who tried the case, or, in case of his

