FRATERNAL MYSTIC CIRCLE i. SNYDER.
227 U. S.

497

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

SUPREME RULING OF THE FRATERNAL
MYSTIC CIRCLE v. SNYDER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

TENNESSEE.
No. 34.

Submitted December 16, 1912.--Decided February 24, 1913.

The State is entitled at all times to prevent the perversion of its legal
machinery, and may require that it be availed of only bona fide.
To impose a penalty on those who unsuccessfully and not in good faith
defend their liability on contracts does not violate the obligation of
the coiftract: Quwre whether the State could impose- such a penalty
as to prior contracts as a mere consequehee of unsuccessful defense.
This court. will not construe a state statute as includiug that which
it expressly excludes on the ground that the statute's practical effect
will be to include cases which are so excluded therefrom.
A state statute, imposing on insurance companies an additional specified proportionate amount of the policy where there has beeni an urnsuccessful ;defense ifiterposed not in good faith, is not unconstitutional as violating the contract clause of the Constitution; and so
held as to a statute of Tennessee to that effect.
122 Tennessee, 248, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
t he contract clause of the Federal Constitution of a, statute'
of Tennessee permitting the. court to add certain amounts
to the recovery on insurance .policies where refusal to pay
was not in good faith, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F, Zimmerman for plaintiff in error:
The.contract involved here was entered intoe in 1887.
In 1901, the "added liability" act was passed. The State
had no power to pass a law affecting prexisting contracts
under Art. I, ยง 10, of. the Federali Constitution. Bedford
v. Eatea'n B. & L. Asfsn, 181 U. S. .227..
This questionl has be lefore t.he court repeoteIll\" (1
VOL. ('(XXVI .-.32

OcTrOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in hrror.

227 IT.S.

attacks based on the "due process of law" and "the equal
protection of the law" clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Such cases are no precedent here. Nor can the
same reasoning be applied. Many of these cases arose out.
of tort and not out of contract. Railroad Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150; Atchison &c. R. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96.
In all cases upheld against attack based on the Fourteenth Amendment it appeared that the" statute was in
existence at the time the contract was made. Hence the
statute was impliedly written into the contract, and that
was- the paramount reason why the statute was upheld.
Mutual Life Ass'n v. "Mettler,185 U. S. 308; Orient Ins. Co.
v. Daggs, 172 U. S.557; St. Louis &c. R. R. v. Paul, 173
U.- S. 409; John Hancock Ins. Co. v. Warren, 181 U. S.
73; New York Life v. Craven, 187 U. S. 389; Iowa Life v.
Lewis, 187 U. S. 344; Farmers,' Ins. Co. v. Dabney, 189
U. S. 301.
In the case at bar, there was no statute imposing added
liability to be written into the contract, but only the constitutional provision of Tennessee that the court should
be open to every man without sale, denialor delay.
Nor is compelling the payment of debts a police regulation. Atchison &c. R. R. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96.
applied to the case
Hence the statute of .Tennessee, .if
at bar, gould not be sustained under the Fourteenth
Amendment.
When the statute of 1901 was passed, adding $750 to
the obligation of the contract, defendant had a right to
withdraw from the State and refuse to make new co tracts.
But it could not withdraw from contracts then in exist;ence. As to these contracts, the imposition of added iWbility was an impairment of the contract. Bedford v.
Eastern B. & L. Ass'n, 181 U. S.227.
Defendant does not claim a vested right in any particular remedy or mode of pilocedure, but a right to an existiiig
defense isproperty inthe sense t~ll it is incompeten.t for

FRATERNAL MYSTIC CIRCLE v. SNYDER.
227 U. S.

499

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the legislature to take it away. Pritchardv. Norton., 106
U. S. 124.
If the legislature can arbitrarily add twenty-five per
cent. to the obligation of an existing contract it may, under
the same authority, add five hundred per cent. Barnitz
v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118.
The power to tax involves the power to destroy. The
power to modify at discretion the remedial part of a contract is the same thing. Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595.
Defendant does not deny that the legislature may
change remedies. Whatever belongs merely to the remedy
may be altered according to the will of the State, provided
the alteration does not impair the obligation of the con-tract. But if that result is produced, it is immaterial
whether it is done by acting on the remedy, or on the contract itself. In either case, it is prohibited by the Constitution. Bronson v. Kinzie, I How. 311; McCracken v.
Haywood, 2 How. 608.; Howard v. Bugbee, 24 How. 461;
Brine v. Hartford F. Ins. Co., 96 U. S. 627; Shapley v.
San Angelo, 167 U. S. 657; Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S.
595; Seibert v. Lewis, 122 U. S, 284.; Re City Bank of New
Orleans, 3 How. 272.
Among the multitude of state cases supporting this
principle, see Commoner's Court v. Rather, 48 Alabama,
447; County Com. Court v. King, 13 Florida, 476; Robinson
v. Magee, 9 California, 85; Wilder v. Lumpkin, 4 Georgia,
220; Temple v. Hays, Morris, 12; Long v. Walker, 105
Nor. Car. 98; State Y. McPeak, 31 Nebraska, 143; Foltz v.
Huntley, 7 Wend. 216; Bank of Dorn. v. McVeigh, 20 Gratt.
466; Roberts v. Cocke, 28 Gratt. 215; Mundy v. Monroe, 1
Michigan, 71; Swinburne v. Mills, 17 Washington, 619;
Goggans v. Turnipseed, 1 S. Car. 82; Jacoway v. Denton, .25
Arkansas, 641; Homestead Cases, 22 Gratt. 287.
The fact that the act tends to enforce the contract is
immaterial if thereby the contract is impaired. Blotl
parties have fixed rights under a contract, and the rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

of neither party can be impaired. McCracken v.'Haywood,
2 How. 608; Bedford v. Eastern B. & L. Ass'n, 181 U. S.
227; Wade on Retroactive Laws,.ยง 115.
It is one of the highest duties of the Supreme Court to
take care that the constitutional prohibition against States
impairing the obligations of contracts shall neither be
evaded nor frittered away. Murray v. Charleston, 96
U. S.432; New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. LouisianaSugar
Refining Co., 125 U. S. 31; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S.
352.
A law given a retroactive effect is unconstitutional if it
so changes the existing remedies as materially to impair
the rights and interests of a party to a contract. Re City
Bank of New Orleans, 3 How. 292; Auffm'ordt v. Rasin,
102 U. S. 620.
The court will look beyond the wording of a statute,
apparently fair upon its face, and consider the effect. The
result of the present statute is that all insurance companies
who defend a suit unsuccessfully are lnuleted, while plaintiff is not. Yicl. 11o v.Hopkins,, 118 U1. S.356.
An additional remedy can be given only where itdoes
not impair any substantial right of the other party. New
Orleans &c. R. R. v. Louisiana, 157 U. S. 219.
Mr. J. B. Sizer and Mr. Robert Pritchardfor defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE I;OHiGES delivered the opinion of the cour't.
In 1887, the plaintiff in error issued a certificate or
policy of insurance for three thousand dollars upon the
life of CharlQs C. Snyder. His wife, the defendant in
error, was the beneficiary.
le died in 1908, and liability
upnl the policy having been denied by the (onpany this
suit was brought 'by Mrs. stlve!, ii t he ('hatwery ('ourt
of Tennessee to compel paynint. Tllc court gave judg-

FRATERNAL MYSTIC CIRCLE v, SNYDER.
227 U. S.
ment in her
not in good
cent. of the
"reasonable

501

Opinion of the Court.
favor and finding that the refusal to pay was
faith added to the recovery twenty-five per
principal, or $750, which was adjudged to be
.compensation and reimbursement to the

complainant" for the "additional loss, expense and injury" which had been inflicted upon her as the holder of
the policy by the refusal. This addition was made pursuant to an act passed by the legislature of Tennessee in
1901 (April 18, 1901, Acts of 1901, c. 141, p. 248). The
Supreme Court of the State, sustaining the statute,
affirmed the judgment and the insurance company has
sued out this writ of error. 122 Tennessee, 248.
The sole Federal question for decision is whether the
above-mentioned statute, as applied, impaired the obligation of the contract in suit and thus violated Art. I, ยง 10,
of the Constitution of the United States.
The act in question provides:
"SECTION 1. . . . That the several insurance companies of this State, and foreign insurance companies and
other corporations, firms or persons doing an insurance
business in this State, in all cases when a loss occurs and
they refuse to pay the same within sixty days after a
demand shall have been made by the holder of said policy
on which said loss occurred, shall be liable to. pay the
holder of said policy, in addition to the loss and interest
thereon, a sum not exceeding twenty-five per cent. on
the liability for said loss; Provided, that it shall be made
to appear.to the Court or Jury trying the case that the
refusal to pay said loss was not in good faith, and that such
failure to pay inflicted addiiional expense, loss or. injury
upon the holder of said policy; and, provided, further,
that such additional liability within the limit prescribed.
shall, in the discretion of the Court or Jury trying the
case, be measured by the additional expense, loss and
injury thus entailed.
"SECTION 2. . . . That in the event it shall

be made

O('T]OLi'R TERM, 1912.
Opln;mn of the Court.

22? U. S.

to appear to the Court or Jury trying the cause that the
action of said policy holder in bringing said suit was not
in good faith, and recovery under said policy shall not
be had, said policy holder shall be liable to such insurance
companies, corporations, firms or persos in a sum not
exceeding twenty-five per cent. of the amount of the loss
claimed under said policy; Provided, that such liability,
within the limits prescribed shall, in the discretion of the
Court or Jury trying the cause, be measured by the addi-tional expense, loss or injury inflicted upon said insurance
companies, corporations, firms or persons by reason of
said suit."
The contention is that the provision for added liability
placed a burden upon the assertion of the rights which the
contract secured and thus in effect changed the contract
by allowing a recovery to which the parties had not agreed
and which was not sanctioned by the law as it existed at
the time the contract was made. Bronson v. Kinzie, I
How. 311, 317; Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118; Bedford
v. Eastern Building & Loan Ass'n, 181 U. S. 227; Oshkosh,
Water Vorks Co. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S. 437, 439. It is
pointed out that in the cases in which statutes have been
sustained providing for the addition to the recovery of
attorneys' fees or damages, or penalties, the question arose
under the Fourteenth Amendment, and that, so far as
they applied to suits upon contracts, the latter had been
made after the enactments. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. R.
Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Fidelity Mutual Life Ass'n
v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308, 322; Iowa Life Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, 187 U. S.335, 355; Farmers' &c. Insurance Co. v.
Dobney, 189. U. S. 301, 304, 305; Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; Yazoo & Miss. Valley R. R.
Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217.
What, then, is the effect of the statute with respect to
pre~xisting contracts? It is at once apparent that, it does
not purport to affect the obligation of the contract in

FRATERNAL \MlXSTIC CIRCLE v. SNYDER.
227 U. S.

503

Opinion of the Court.

any way. It does not attempt to change or to render
nugatory any of the terms or conditions of the policy of
insurance, or to relieve the insured from compliance with
any stipulation it contained. It does not seek to give a
right of action where none would otherwise exist or to
deprive the company of any defense it might have. If
the company is not' liable according to its contract, it is
not required to pay. Nor does the statute permit a recovery of expenses or added damages as a mere consequence of success in the suit. The question whether the
State may so provide as to prior contracts is not before us,
and we express no opinion upon it.
The statute is aimed not at the rights secured by the
contract but at dishonest methods employed to defeat
them. The additional liability is attached to bad faith
alone. This is the necessary effect of the proviso. It is
only when it is "made to appear to the court or jury trying
the case that the refusal to pay said loss was not in good
faith" that the added recovery may be had. It must also
appear thiat such refusal inflicted "additional expense,
loss or injury" upon the policy holder, and it is this further expense., loss or injury that measures the amount to
be allowed, which is not to exceed twenty-five per cent.
of the liability on the policy.
It cannot be said that this effort to give indemnity for
the injuries which would be sustained through perverse
methods and through an abuse of the privileges accorded
to honest litigants imposed a burden upon the enforcement of the contract. Neither the contract, nor the
existing law which entered into it, contemplated contests
promoted in bad faith or justified the infliction of loss by
such means. The State was entitled at all times to take
proper measures to prevent the perversion of its legal
machinery, and there was no denial or burdening, in any
proper sense, of the existing remedies applicable to the
contract by the demand that they be availed of bona fide.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912).
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

But we are asked to look behind the language of the
statute and to assume that its effect is to impose the additional liability in the absence of bad faith. That is, we
are to take the statute as including what it expressly excludes-as allowing what it explicitly denies. The act
does not make the mere refusal to pay sufficient evidence
of bad faith so as to justify the added recovery; it requires
that the bad faith be shown and that the consequent
additional loss be shown. And the state court so construed the statute in the application that wasmade of it
in the present case.
The trial court adjudged that the refusal of the coinpany to pay the amount of the policy was not in good
faith, and the amount allowed was determined to be
a reasonable conipensation for the resulting damage.
The evidence before the court--save a small portion of
it-is not in the record. The fact must be taken to be as
found. The statute, judged by its provisions as they have
been construed and applied, cannot be regarded as an
impairment of the obligation of the contract.
Judgment affirmed.

BACON, DOING BUSINESS AS WABASH ELEVATOR, v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 76.

Argued December 6, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

The denial to the States of tie power to tax articles actually moving in
interstate commerce rests upon the supremacy of the Federal power
to regulate that commerce, and its postulate is necessary freedom of
that commerce from the burden of local taxation.
The State cannot impose a tax upon articles moving in interstate commerce on the ground that such articles belong to its own citizens.

