OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

the accusation against him. This fact is made more evident when it is found that this record shows no surprise
to the accused in the production of the letter at the trial
and no exception to its introduction in evidence, and
there is no indication that the contents of the letter, when

it was produced, did not warrant the description of it
given in the indictment.
Judgment affirmed.

TROXELL,

ADMINISTRATRIX,

v. DELAWARE,

LACKAWANNA & WESTERN RAILROAD COM-PANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 854.

Argued January 14, 1913.--Decided February 24, 1913.

Where the second suit is upon1 the same cause of action set up in the
first suit, an estoppel by judgment arises in respect to every matter
offered or received in evidence or which night have been offered to
sustain or defeat the claim in controversy; but where the secondi
suit is upon a different claim or demand, 'the prior judgment operates
as an estoppel only as to matters in issue or points controverted and
actually determined in the original suit.
To work an estoppel, the first proceceding and judgment must he a
ba to the second one because it is miatter already adjudie ited lhetween the plarties, and there must be identity of parties ill
the tw,
act ions.
A suit for damages for causing death brought bly the widow ard umrviving children of the deceased under the state law is not on the same
cause of action as one subsequently brought by the widow as admi nistratrix ag inrst the sarme defenda it unIder the Employers' Liability Act, and the judgment (lismissilg tlie c iplai at ill
the first.
actioJi) is iot a1hLa as r.cs jid-t:a tolthe srco)d suit.
Alter t plea of resj.ai'cala has been filed ait conisidercd and the (ac e

TROXELL v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
227 U. S.

435

Argument for Defendant in Error.

tried, it is too late for defendant to raise the objection in this court
for the first time that the case was not at issue and should not have
been tried until after plaintiff had filed a replication to the plea.
200 Fed. Rep. 44, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Acts of 1906 and 1908 and the validity
of a judgment recovered thereunder, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. George Demming for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James F. Campbell, with whom Mr. J. Hayden
Oliver, Mr. Daniel R. Reese and Mr. William S. Jenney
were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The former action brought by plaintiff in error as widow
for the benefit of herself and children, which she lost in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, completely bars the present
action brought by her as administratrix for the benefit of
herself and children.
The Circuit Court of Appeals had the right to consider
the record of the former appeal because it was not only
before them, without objection, but was a part of their
own records. 3 Cyc. 179; Schneider v. Hesse, 9 Ky. L. R.
1814.
An appellate court takes notice of its own records so
far as they pertain to a case under Consideration. That
court, therefore, would judicially know that the Judgment
appealed from was affirmed upon a former appeal to which
all the parties to the present appeal were parties, trd such
judgment is consequently a bar to the prosecution of the
present appeal. Thornton v. Webb, 13 Minnesota, 498;
Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240; Aspen Mining Co. v. Billings, 150 Ui. S. 31; Craenmer v. Wasliiiitwo, 168 IT. S. 124;
Thowmpson v. Maxwell Land Grant Co., 68 U. S. 451;
In re Durrant, 169 U. S. 39; Bienvih li'rtcr Supply Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

227 U. S.

Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 217; Dimmnick v. Tompkins, 194
U. S. 540.
Plaintiff in error must have tried the former action
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, and as the
administratrix was a mere formal party, she could have
been substituted at any time as nominal 'plaintiff, by
amendment. St. Louis & S. F. R. R. v. Herr, 193 Fed.
Rep. 950; Van Doren v. Pa. R. R., 93 Fed. Rep. 260, 268;
Reardon v. Balaklala Con. Copper Co., 193 Fed. Rep. 189.
The parties were identical or in privity.
The Pennsylvania statutes give the right to a widow
to sue in her own name, for the benefit of herself and
children, for the wrongful death of her husband by violence
or negligence. Act of April 26, 1855, § 1, P. L. 309.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act of 1908 provides
that the action shall be brought by the administrator for
the benefit of the widow and children.
The former action was brought by plaintiff in error,
under the Pennsylvania acts, to recover damages against
the defendant by reason of its alleged negligence causing
the death of her husband, for the benefit of herself and
minor children.
In the present action she sues as administratrix under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act of 1908, to recover
damages, for the same death, from the same accident and
for the benefit of the same parties, viz., herself and minor
children.
These parties are the same in both actions, and in privity
with each other. Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240.
The cause of action is the same and the parties are Ihe
same. It conclusively follows, therefore, that the first
action is res judicata of the second.
The two actions were brought by the same parties
against the same defendant, in the same court, tried before
the same judge, to recover damages for the same death in
the same accident.

TROXELL v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
227 U. S.

437

Argument for Defendant in Error.

If the matter was adjudicated as to part, it was adjudicated entirely. MacDonald v. Grand Trunk R. Co.,
71 N. H. 448; Columb v. Webster Mfg. Co., 84 Fed. Fep. 259.
To the same effect are the following cases: Marshall v.
Bryant Electric Co., 185 Fed.Rep. 499; Hein v. Westinghouse Co., 172 Fed. Rep.. 524; Forsythe v. Hammond, 166
U. S. 506; Cromwell v. Sac, 94 U. S. 351; Clare v. N. Y. &
N. E. R. R., 172 Massachusetts, 211; The New Brunswick,
125 Fed. Rep. 567; Hubbell v. United States, 171 U. S. 203;
23 Cyc. 1170.
The question of the negligence of a fellow-workman was
adjudicated in the prior case, because even under the
Pennsylvania statute recovery is permitted. against the
common employer whose alleged negligence (in the present
instance in not furnishing a derailing switch) concurred
with the negligence of a fellow-servant to cause harm to
the plaintiff.
The fact as to whether or not the cars were left properly
on the siding was directly in issue as a defense in' the former
suit and was directly decided therein so as to be res
judicata.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act is not exclusive
in the case at bar. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223
U. S. 1. In this case the facts are entirely different and
the Pennsylvania acts are not in conflict with the Federal
act.
The mere fact that in his train are some cars destined to
points without the State does not make an employs engaged in interstate commerce so as to exclude the applicability of the state acts when he Was also engaged in
intrastate commerce.
Plaintiff in error was not exclusively engaged in interstate commerce but only incidentally, and his employment
was far more intrastate than interstate. M., K. & T. Ry.
Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; Sinnott v. Davenport, 22 Ihow.
227, 243.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

There is no repugnance or conflict between the state act
and the Federal act.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, as amended
(35 Stat. 65, c. 149; 36 Stat. 291, c. 143) by Lizzie M.
Troxell, administratrix of the estate of Joseph Daniel
Troxell, deceased, against The Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western Railroad Company to recover for the alleged
wrongful death of decedent. A verdict was rendered by
the District Court, which had succeeded the Circuit
Court, in favor of the plaintiff, and judgment entered
accordingly, which, on writ of error, was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 200 Fed.
Rep. 44. The case was then brought here upon writ of
error.
It appears from the record that the defendant railroad
company operates a line of road runnipg from Nazareth
to Portland, Pennsylvania, and that a branch road, known
as the Pen Argyl Branch, puts off in a northeasterly direction from Pen Argyl Junction, a point on the defendant's
line. Between 100 and 150 yards northeast of Pei! Argyl
Junction there is a switch running off the Pen Argyl
Branch, called Albion Siding No. 2, which extends to
certain quarries in that vicinity. The switch track is
level, or practically so, for the fi'st 100 feet, and then rises
towards the northeast with a grade of one foot in 100 feet.
From the place where the Albion switch connects with
the Pen Argyl Branch down to the main track and then
westward on the main track there is a down grade. Six
gondola cars, each about thirty-six feet in length, loaded
witlh ashes, had been placed on the Albion spur by the

TROXELL v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
227 U. S.

439

Opinion of the Court.

train crew of which Troxell was the fireman, he at that
particular time acting as engineer, two days before the
happening of the injury hereinafter described. The night
before the injury the yard shifter and crew had moved
the cars a considerable' distance further on the spur from
the junction of the siding -with the branch and on the
up grade. The next morning, at about half past seven
o'clock, these cars were seen to be running rapidly down
grade toward the point where the collision occurred. The
decedent Troxell, then engaged as fireman in propelling
a train eastwardly, consisting in part of interstate cars
and freight, was at the time working on the tender of
the engine, and when the runaway cars, going at great
speed, collided with the locomotive he was buried under
the wreck and killed.
Lizzie M. Troxell (now the administratrix of his estate) brought a previous action, suing as surviving widow
and joining the two living children, against the defendant
railroad company for damages, stating that at the time
of the injury, July 21, 1909, the deceased was engaged
in the capacity of fireman on a locomotive hauling one of
the defendant's trains in interstate and foreign commerce
and that while so engaged, without fault on his part and
because of the negligence of defendant and its failure to
supply and keep in good condition proper and safe devices,
instruments and apparatus, the locomotive and train
came into violent collision with several runaway cars,
resulting in the death of Troxell, and she prayed damages on account of herself and the children. She recovered a .verdict and judgment was rendered in her
favor, which upon writ of error, was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 183 Fed.
Rep. 373.,
Thereafter, having been appointed administratrix of
the estate of her husband, Lizzie M. Troxell began the
present action in the Circuit Court of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

This action was specifically brought under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. The petition charged that the
defendant was a common carrier engaged in interstate
transportation; that Troxell, deceased, was a fireman,
engaged in that capacity upon a locomotive and train
engaged in carrying interstate and foreign commerce, and
charged that because of the negligence, carelessness and
oversight of the defendant, and its failure to supply and
keep in good condition proper, necessary and safe devices,
instruments and appliances, the locomotive and train
came into violent collision with several loose and runaway
cars, causing Troxell's death, and the plaintiff, administratrix as aforesaid, prayed damages, setting forth that
she was the widow of the decedent and that there were
two minor children of the parties. The case was tried to
a jury, and again resulted in a verdict and judgment in
the District Court, successor to the Circuit Court, in
favor of the administratrix. Upon writ of error the Cir-cuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the
judgment, holding that the first proceeding and judgment
was a bar to a recovery in the Aecond action.
Where the second suit is upon the same cause of actiorl
set up in the first suit, an estoppel by judgment arises
in respect to every matter offered or received an evidence,
or which might have been offered, to sustain or defeat the
claim in controversy; but, vfhere the second suit is upon
a different claim or demand, the prior judgment operates
as an estoppel only as to matters in issue or points controverted and actually determined in the original suit.
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351, 352, 353; Southern
Pacific Railroad Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 50;
Virginia-CarolinaChemical Co. v. Kirven, 215 U. S. 252,
257.
An inspection of the record shows that upon the trial
of the first action the judge of the District Court held that
the Employers' Liability Act prevented Lizzie M. Troxell

TROXELL v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
227 U. S.

441

Opinion of the Court.

from maintaining the suit in her individual capacity for
herself and children and that the Federal act should not
be considered in determining the case and .that it was
brought under the statutes of the State of Pennsylvania
authorizing a widow to bring suit for herself and children'
not as administratrix, but in her individual capacity, to
recover damages for the death of the decedent. In such
an action there could be no recovery because of the negligence of the fellow-workmen of Troxell. The record shows
that in the first action the trial court held that no question
of the negligence of the fellow-servants was submitted,
and the jury was confined to the question of responsibility
for failing to provide proper safety appliances to prevent
the cars from running down the grade in the manner in
which they did, if left unbraked or on becoming unbraked
on the siding. The Circuit Court of Appeals in reversing
the case distinctly stated that in its view the case might
be brought under the state act, notwithstanding the Employers' Liability Act, and reached the conclusion that
the judgment below should be reversed.
The second action was brought under the Federal Liability Act, under which there might be a recovery for the
negligence of the fellow-servants of the deceased, and the
judge of the District Court, holding that the former case
had adjudicated matters as to defects in cars, engines and
rails, submitted to the jury only the question of the negligence of fellow-servants in failing to properly brake and
block the cars on the siding. Upon the issue thus submitted a verdict was rendered and recovery had in the
trial court, as we have already'said.
In the, Circuit Court of Appeals, however, it
was held
that the judgment in the first case was a bar to the second
proceeding because, in view of the decision of this court in
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, an action.
of this kind for injury to one engaged in interstate commerce could only be maintained under the Federal Em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

plpyers' Liability Act; and that, although the plaintiff
undertook in the first action to abandon the charge as to
the negligence of fellow-servants and relied only on the
want of a proper derailing switch on Albion Siding
No. 2, nevertheless the first judgment was a bar because
in the second action she was merely offering to.prove additional facts which might have been proved in the first
trial.
We think it is apparent from what we have said that
the first case was prosecuted and tried on the theory that it
involved a cause of action under the state law of Pennsylvania. It was so submitted to the jury, and they were
told that they were not to. consider the Federal law, but
recovery should be based upon the right under the state
act. If the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in its second
decision that no action could have been maintained under
the state law, in view of the Employers' Liability Act,
the fact that the plaintiff attempted to recover under that
law and pursued the supposed remedy until the court
adjudged that it never had existed would not of itself
preclude the subsequent pursuit of a remedy for relief to
which in law she is entitled. Win. W. Bierce, 'Limited, v.
Hutchins, 205 U. S. 340; Snow v. Alley, 156 Massachusetts,
193, 195; Water, Light & Gas Co. v. City of Hutchinson,
90 C. C. A. 547, 551. Whether the plaintiff could properly
have thus recovered is not the question now before the
court. To work an estoppel the first proceeding and judgment must be a bar to the second one because it is a matter
already adjudicated between the parties. The cause of
action under the state law, if it could be prosecuted to recover for the wrongful death alleged in this case, was
based upon a different theory of the right to recover than
prevails under the Federal statute. Under the Pennsylvania law there could be no recovery for the negligence
of the fellow-servants of the deceased. This was the issue
upon which the case was submitted at the second trial

TROXELL v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
227 U. S.

443

Opinion of the Court.

and a recovery had. Whether the plaintiff could recover
under the Pennsylvania statute was not involved in the
second action, and the plaintiff's right to recover because of the injury occasioned by the negligence of the
fellow servants was not involved in or concluded by the
first suit.
Furthermore, it is well settled that to work an. estoppel
by judgment there must have been identity of parties in
the two actions. Brown v. Fletcher's Estate, 210 U. S. 82;
Ingersoll v. Coram, 211 U. S. 335. The Circuit Court of
Appeals in the present case, while recognizing this rule,
disposed of the contention upon the ground that the par-.
ties- were essentially the same in both actions--the first
action was for the benefit of Lizzie M. Troxell and the
two minor children, and the present case, although the
action was brought by the administratrix, is for the benefit
of berself and children- and held that, except in mere
form, the actions were for the benefit of the same persons
and therefore the parties were practically the same; and,
that the omission to sue as administratrix was merely
technical and would have been curable by amendment.
This conclusion was reached before this court announced
its decision in American Railroad Co. v. Birch, 224 U. S.
547. That action was brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act by the widow and son of the decedent
and not by the administrator. The lower court held that
the requirement of the act that the suit should be brought
in case of death by the personal representative of the deceased did not prevent a suit in the name of the persons
entitled to the benefit of the recovery. In other words,
the court ruled, as did the Circuit Court of Appeals in
this case, that where it was shown that the widow and
child were the sole beneficiaries, they might maintain the
action without the appointment of a personal representative. This court denied the contention, and held that
Congress, doubtless for good reasons, had specifically pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S,

vided that an action under the Employers' Liability Act
could be brought only by the personal representative, and
the judgment was reversed without prejudice to the rights
of such personal representative. We think that under
the ruling in the Birch Case there was not that identity of
parties in the former action by the widow and the present
case, properly. brought by the administratrix under the
Employers' Liability Act, which renders the former suit
and judgment a bar to the present action.
It is further urged that even if this court should hold
that the sole ground upon which the Circuit Court of
Appeals proceeded, namely, that the former judgment
is a bar to this action, was untenable, nevertheless the
judgment of the District Court ought not to be affirmed,
because there is no testimony in the record adequate to
sustain the verdict and judgment of that court. The case
in the appellate court must be determined, not by considering and weighing conflicting testimony, but upon a
decision of the question as to the presence of testimony
in the record fairly tending to sustain the verdict. An
examination of the record satisfies us that the district
judge in his charge fairly stated the conflicting testimony
adduced as to the negligence of the fellow-servants in securing and blocking the cars on the siding, and that there
was testimony to sustain the verdict of the jury adverse
to the defendant. It is also contended that certain testimony was inadmissible. We have examined this assignment afid, without going into detail, find that it, too, must
be denied. It is also urged that the record shows that
the case when tried was not at issue, at least under the
rules of the lower court was not triable, until after issue
joined, and this objection is set up because of the failure
of the plaintiff to file a repiication after the court had decided that the plea of res judicata was a correct plea
under the local practice. The case was at issue, and the
plea of res judicata was considered and decided in both

CHAMPION LUMBER CO. v. FISHER.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

courts, and it is too late to make a technical objection of
that character in this court.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and
that of the DistrictCourt affirmed, and the case remanded
to the District Court.
Upon the issue of res judicata, MR. JUSTICE LURTON
concurs solely because of the lack of identity of parties in
the two actions.

UNITED STATES EX REL. CHAMPION LUMBER
COMPANY v. FISHER, SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Submitted January 27, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Under subd. 5 of § 250 of the Judicial Code of 1911 a final judgment
of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia can only be reviewed by this court in cases where the validity of any authority
exercised under the United States, or the existence or scope of any
power or duty of any officer of the United States, is drawn in question.
The meaning of the phrase "drawn in question" as it occurs in § 250 of
the Judicial Code is the same as in § 709, Rev. Stat.; § 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, and other statutes regulating territorial
appeals.
A statute of the United States authorizing an officer to act in a certain
manner under certain conditions is not drawn in question nor is the
scope or Validity of authority of the officer acting thereunder drawn
in question, simply because there is a controversy as to whether the
specified conditions do or do not exist.
Where the Secretary of the Interior refused to iss1', a patent because a
protest was pending, the denial of a petition for a writ of mandamus

