MARRONHe
227 U. S_

WAJHINGToN JockEY CLUB
Argument for PlaintifT'ui

MARRONE v. WASHINGTON

0

Error.

JOCKEY CLUB.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT Of
COLUMBI k.
No. 59.

Argued February 28, 1913 -- 1),.d'ri March 10, 1913.

The rule commonly accepted in this eountry ironi the English casc,
is that a ticket to a place of entertainment forn steihed perioix does
not create a right in rein.
A contract binds the person of the nkaker b, doe, n(Tt crejite :uinterest in the property it concerns unles iralso. operates as A conveyante; a ticket of admission cannot l.wive sdcn apaet as u i.1 not unider seal and by common understanding it Joes not purport to have
that effect.
Specific performance of rights claimed undt-r a Yoerctiekct of admission
to property cannot be enforced by -,elf-heipv twe holder refused admission must sue for the breach.
While there might be an irrevocable right of entry w.ider a contract incidental to a right of property in hnd or in goobs therpon, where the
contract stands by itself it must be a eolvxcvar;ce or a mere revocable
license.
35 App. D. C. 82, affirmed.
THE'

facts, which involve thv. "ights. of the purchaser

of a ticket to a race track, and liability for his ejection

therefrom, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lorenzo A. Bailey, wita whom Mr. George A. Pre-

vost was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
A conspiracy, for the purposes of a civil action, is a combination of two or more persons by some concerted action
to accomplish any purpose by unlawful means or an unlawful purpose by any means. Karges Furnit'ure Co. v..
Amalgamated Woodworkers' Union, 165 In diana, 421.

It may be a verbal agreement or undertaking, or a
scheme evidenced by the action of the parties. Franklin
Union v. People, 220 Illinois, 355.

OCTOBER TFRM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error

227 U. R.

Any conspiracy the object of which is to wrongfully or
maliciously injure another in business, trade, or reputation, is actionable. Although in criminal conspiracy the
combination is the gist of the offense, in civil cohspiracy
damage is the gist and not the combination itself. Eddy
on Combinations, §§ 253, 371, 373.
The evidence of conspiracy is generally, from the nature
of the base, circumstantial. It is not necessary to prove
that the defendants came together and actually agred.
in terms. Greenl. Ev. (Redf. Ed.), § 93; 8 Cyc. 685.
The record here shows the defendants acted in concert in ruling off the plaintiff and also in asserting, -L
grounds for ruling him off, that the horse was stimulated,
thereby implying that he was responsible for it, which
assertion was wholly false and the defendants had no
reason even to suspect it to be true.
In an action for conspiracy to wrongfully expel plaintiff
from the society, whether the members acted fairly and
in good faith in finding that a letter written by plainti*
was in violaticr, of the constitution and laws of the order,
was for the jury. St. Louis & S. W. Ry. Co. v. Thornp.on.
113 S. W. liep. 144.
The third and fourth assignments of error are based on
the fifth exception to the action of the court in-taking
the case from the jury and present several questions of
law.
As to the rights acquired by the plaintiff by the purchaw
of his ticket, see Taylor v. Waters, 7 Taunt. 374, decided
in 1817; Wood v. Leadbitter, 13 M. & W. 838; McCreu v.
Marsh, 12 Gray, 211; Burton v. Scherpf, 1 Allen, 133; Drew
v. Peer, 93 Pa. St. 234.
The New York courts emphatically repudiate the doetrine of Wood v. Leadbitter. McGoverney v. Staples, 7 Alb.
L. J. 219, holds that an action for assault and battery lies
for forcible expulsion of a season ticket holder from the
fair grounds of an agricultural society. And see also

MARRONE v. WASIINGTON JOCK(FY OtUE. 631)
227 1 .

Opinion of th' Court.

MacGowan v. Duff, 12 N. Y. 680; Crenorc v. Hulber, IS
App. Div. 231;.Smith v. Leo, 92 Hun, 242; Collister v.
Hayvinpn, 183 N. Y. 260; Wandell'. Law of the Theater.
221; ]3ackett's Theatrical Law, 166; People v. King, 1TO
N. Y. 418, 428; Pearce v. Spalding, 12 Mo. App. 141;
Greenberg v. Western Turf Assn., 140 California, 357.
The establishment of the doctrine referred to demonAtrates the fallacy of the theory of revocability for which
Brackett and Wandell contend. People v. King, 110 N. Y.
41",; Baylies v. Curry, 128 Illinois, 287; Joseph v. Birdwell,
2S La. Ann. 382; and see Article in 12 Cent. L. J. 390.
A license, founded upon a valuable consideration, to
enter the land of another, is not revocable at the will. of
Oh licensor. Ditch Co. v. Ditch Co., 10 Colo. App. 276;
Burrow v. Terre Haute R. Co., 107 Indiana, 432; 28 A. &
E. En. 124.
The condition printed on the ticket, that the decision
of an officer of the association shall he conclusive is inapplicable in this case, in which the decision was ex pare
and in flagrant disregard of the plaintiff's right to have
an inquiry as requested by him.
The conditions upon which the defendants could refuse
t( admit plaintiff are specified on the back of the ticket.
The good faith of the stewards in their decision is directly
impeached and put in issue in this suit and, upon all the
evidence, was a question of fact for the jury. St. Louis &
S. W. Ry. Co. v. Thompson, 113 S. W. Rep. 144.
Mr. Charles L. Frailey with whom Mr. A. S. Worthington, was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of trespass for forcibly prevent.ing the
plaintiff from entering the Benning, Raoe Track in this
District after he had bought a ticket of admission, and for

OCTO0E3I TLI.RA

19[:2.

Opinion of ti, Court. ,

227 U 5"

doing the same thing, or turning him out, on the followrlis
day just after he had dropped his ticket into the boX
There was also a count charging that the defendanti
conspired to destroy the plaintiff's reputation and that
they excluded him on th"e charge of having 'doped' or
drugged a horse entered by him for a race a few days before, in pursuance of such conspiracy. But as no evidence
of a conspiracy was introduced and as no more forei
was used than was necessary to prevent the plaintiftT
from entering upon the race track, the argument hardly
went beyond an attempt to overthrow the rule commonly
accepted in this country from the English cases, anod
adopted below, that such tickets- do not create a right
ren. 35 App. D. C. 82. Wood v. Leadbitter, 13 M. & W.
838. McCrea v. Marsh, 12 Gray, 211. Johnson v. 1lilk%,.
son, 139 Massachusetts, 3. Homey v. Nixon, 213 Pa. S"
20. 3leisner v. Detroit, Belle Isle & Windsor Ferry Co., 15.I
Michigan, 545. TV. TV. V. Co. v. Black, 75 S. E. Rep. S2.
85. Shubert v. Nixon Amusement Co., 83 Atl. Rep. 3(,9.
Taylor v. Cohn, 47 Oregon, 538, 540. People v. Flynn, 114
App. Div. 578, 189 N. Y. 180.
We see no reason for declining to foliow the commonIy
accepted rule. The fact that the purchase of the ticke
made a contract is not enough. A contract binds thei
person of the maker but does not create an interest in the
property that it may concern, unless it also operates as a
conveyance. The ticket was not a conveyance of an interest in the race track, not only because it was not under
seal but because by common understanding it did not
purport to have that effect. There would be obvious inconveniences if it were construed otherwise. But if it
did not create such an interest, that is to say, a right n,
ren valid against the landowner and third persons, the
holder had no right to enforce specific performance by sehhelp. His only right was to sue upon the contract for the
breach. It is true that if the contract were incidental to a

BAXTER v. BUCHHOLZ-HILL CO.
227 U. S.

6V

Opinion of the Court,.

right of property either in the land or in goods upon ti(
land, there might be an irrevocable right of entry, bul
when the contract stands by itself it must be either ai
conveyance or a license subject to be revoked.
Judgment affirmed.

BAXTER v. BUCHHOLZ-HILL TRANSPORTATION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 882.

Submitted February 24, 1913.-Decided March 10, 1913,

the decree in a case is the dominant act anuo cannot be given a greater
effect than it purports to have ano than would be warranted by the
opinion that the court finally%' ,ac1,P6.
The fact that a court in dismissing a li)el without prejudice to a new
suit expressed a decision on the merits, which it afterwards, on motion, excluded, does not make the (tecree as finally entered a decisioi
on the merits.
While a matter is still in ita I)beast. the court may change its opinion
aod do so by changing the decree.
Writ of error to review, 206 N. Y: 173, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur English, for defenuant in error, in support
of motion to dismiss or affirm.
A!r. Charles C. Brl.img/,nm, Mr. Norman B. Becchrr
and Air. a4y Rood Allen for plaintiff in error, in opposition

thereto.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.
MR. JUSTiCE HOLMES.

By

