SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. SCHUYLER.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

were not withii the description of "testimony" in the
clause quoted from ยง 7 of the Bankruptcy Act.
And for like reasons, the evidence showing the results
of an expert examination of the books of the bankers was
also admissible.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary for us to consider whether the prohibition with which we have dealt,
that "no testimony given by him shall be offered in
evidence against him in any criminal proceeding" is not
limited to criminal proceedings in the Federal courts; and
upon this question we express no opinion.
Judgments affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SCHUYLER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.

No. 143.

Argued January 23, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Whether the anti-pass provision of the HepburnAct prohibits a carrier
from giving free interstate transportation to employ6s:of the Railway Mail Service when not on duty but traveling for their own benefit, is a Federal question.
One holding a government commission that entitles him to free interstate railway transportatiorr while on duty and who while not on
duty enters a train, relying on such commission and with the consent,
of the officials in charge of the train, and remains thereon with their
consent, isnot a trespasser evenl if in so doing he violates the anti-pass
provision of the Hepburn law.
Whether the relation of carrier and passenger arises in the case of one
traveling gratuitously in violation of the anti-pass provision of the
llepburn Act, in the: absence of any Federal statute regulating the
imatter, is a question not of Federal, but of state, law.
Where the decision of the state court adverse to plaintiff in error proceeds upon two independent grounds, one of which does not involve
a Federal question and is sufficient to support it, the writ of error will
be-dismissed or the judgment affirmed according to circumstances.
On writ of error to a state court, while this court does not ordinarily
review findings of fact, if a Federal right has beeu denied -as the
result of a finding of fact which is without support in the evidence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U.' S.

this court may examine the evidence to the extent necessary to give
plaintiff in error the benefit of the Federal rijht asserted.
In this case the finding of the state court that a railway mail clerk
while traveling on his own business was a gratuitous passenger was
well founded on the evidence.
There is no presumption that a railway company gives free interstate
transportation, and that is a fact that must be established by evidence.
The anti-pass provisior of the Hepbulrn Act does not make an outlaw
of one traveling interstate on a pass and so deprive him of the benefit
of the local law that makes the carrier responsible for exercising due
care.
Penalties are not to be enlarged by construction; and so held that one
violating the Hepburn Act by accepting gratuitous passage is not
deprived of protection due to other passengers under the local law
as well as subject to the penalty specified in the act.
In Utah the rights of safe carriage on a common carrier are not derived
from the contract of carriage but are based on the law of the State
requiring the carrier to use due care for the safety of passengers.
37 Utah, 581, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the liability of an interstate
railway carrier for personal injuries sustained through
its negligence by a railway mail service clerk trayeling
without payment of fare, and the construction of the
anti-pass provisions of the Hepburn Act, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. P. L. Williams and
Mr. E. M. Bagley were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Railway mail service employ6s are prohibited by the
anti-pass clause of the Interstate Commerce Act from
using their official commissions to obtain free inter,' ate
rides when off duty or when not in the discharge of their
public duties. L. & N. P. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
Interstate Commerce Law, ยง 1, par. 4, 34 Stat., p. 584.
,The Interstate Commerce Commission has ruled that
employ~s in the mail service are not entitled to free transportation when not on duty. Sen. Doc. No. 226, p. 26,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. ,,. SCHUYLER.
227 U. S.

603

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

1st sess., 60th Cong. Congress has impliedly sanctioned
this interpretation of the act. See 35 Stat. 60; United
States v. Wells-Fargo Express Co., 161 Fed. Rep. 607; 36
Stat. 546; N. H. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361,
401; United States v. Hermanos, 209 U. S. 337.
It was the purpose of the Anti-Pass Act that all citizens should under the same circumstance be treated
alike. C. I. & L. R. Ry. Co. v. United States, 219 U. S.
486; N. H. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 392.
To have granted Schuyler, or for him to have used, free
interstate transportation would constitute just such
discrimination as the statute Was designed to abolish.
Schuyler's commission was in fact really nothing more
than the certificate or credentials issued b& the Government certifying to his appointment and authority. See
Ill. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Dunnigan, 95 Mississippi, 749, to
effect that railroads are not compelled to grant free transportation to any of the excepted classes named in the act.
Even if it had previously been accepted or regarded as
entitling the holder to free rides when off duty, the commission became null and Void for that purpose when the
Hepburn Act went into effect, at least so far 'as free
interstate traveling when off duty was concerned. Little
Rock Ry. Co. v. Dowell, 142 S. W. Rep. 165; L. & N. R.
Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
It was beyond the power of the state court to read into
the Hepburn Act an exception in favor of "gratuitous"
passengers, thereby evading the effect of the law and
attempting to enlarge the class to whom Congress had
limited the right of free interstate transportation. Am.
Exp. Co. v. United States, 212 U, S. 522.
The Hepburn Act is the paramount and sole existing
law on the subject of free interstate transportation,
whether it is called gratuitous or free. Armoir Packing.
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 82; Fulgham v. Midland
Valley R. Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 660, 662; E. P. & N. E. Ry.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87; Cound v. A., T. & S. F. Ry.
Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 527, 531; United States v. Colorado &
N. W. R. Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 321, 330.
There is no presumption that the railroad company
violated the statute a-pd granted Schuyler a free interstate
ride; and there is no evidence in the record to support
any such conclusion. Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225
U. S. 246, 261; United States v. Williams, 159 Fed. Rep,
3 10; Union Pacific Railway Co. v. Nichols, 8 Kansas,
505.
Schuyler induced his carriage on this interstate trip by
fraud and misrepresentation. He was an unauthorized
intruder on the train, engaged in the commission of a
misdemeanor as defined in the Hepburn Act, and had no
rights enforceable at law. Fitzmaurice v. N. Y., N. H. &
H. R. Co., 192 Massachusetts, 159.
One traveling on a free pass or a mileage ticket which
had been issued to another by name and not transferable
is barred by his fraudulent conduct from recovering for a
personal injury, unless it was due to negligence so gross as
to show a willful injury. Tol., Wab. & West. Ry. Co. v.
Beggs, 85 Illinois, 80; Way v. C., R. I. & P. R. Co., 64
Iowa, 48; Condran v. Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co., 67 Fed.
Rep. 522; Tol., Wab. & West. R. Co. v. Brooks, 81 Illinois,
245; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Mehlsack, 131 Illinois, 61;
:odfrey v. Ohio & Miss. Ry., 116 Indiana, 30; McVeety v.
8t. P. & Minn. Ry., 45 Minnesota, 268; McNeill v. Durham
& Charlotte R. R.,.31 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. (N. S.)
285; Railroad Co. v. Michie, 83 Illinois, 431; Robertson v.
Railway Co., 22 Barb. 91; Prince v. Railroad Co., 64
Texas,' 146; Railway Co. v. Campbell, 76 Texas, 175;
Way v. Railway Co., 74 Iowa, 463.
To the same effect see: Harmon v. Jensen, 176 Fed.
Rep. 519; Sessions v. So. Pac. Co., 159 California, 599;
Norfolk &c. Ry. v. Bondurant, 107 Virginia, 515; Duncan
v. Maine Cent. R. Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 508; Brown v. M., K.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. r' SCHUYLER.
227 U. S.

605

Opinion of the Court.

& T. Ry. Co., 64 Missouri, 536; Moore v. OhioRiver R. R.
Co., 41 W. Va. 160.
Good faith on Schuyler's part does not affect this case.
Clement v. Dwight, 121 N. Y. Supp. 788, 791; Rudy v.
Railway Company, 8 Utah, 165.
Schuyler's right was in no way affected by any belief
he may have entertained as to his right to ride on his
ticket. Crosby v. Buchanan, 23 Wall. 420, 458; Gardner
v. N. H. & N. Co., 51 Connecticut, 143.
Inasmuch as Schuyler was denied by the Federal
statute the right to a free ride on an interstate trip,--of
which law and denial he is presumed to have had knowledge-the conductor could not by mere acquiescence
confer such a right on him. Clark v. C. & N. W. R. Co.,
165 Fed. Rep. 408; Purple v. U. P. R. Co., 114 Fed. Rep.
123; Covdran v. Ry. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 522; Grahn v.
International &c. R. Co., 100 Texas, 27; McVeety v. St.
Paul &c. R. Co., 45 Minnesota, 268.
Schuyler was riot an accepted gratuitous passenger.
No contract to permit him to ride free was' ever made
between him and the carrier. Ewell v. Daggs, 108 U. S.
143; Holman v. Johnson, Cowp. 341; Bank of United States
v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527; Pullman's Car Co. v. Transp. Co.,
171 U. S. 138, 151; Duncan v. Maine Cent. R. Co., 113
Fed. Rep. 508.
The verdict of the jury and the judgment of the state
Supreme Court are not supported by evidence and are
contrary to law. Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442; Waterbury v. R. R. Co., 17 Fed. Rep. 671.
Mr. Edward M. Cleary, Mr. Bert Schlesinger, Mr.
Alfred W. Agee and Mr. James B. McCracken, for defendants in error, submitted.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a review, under Rev. Stat.,

709, of a judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

recovered against the plaintiff in error for damages on
account of the death of one Charles Albert Schuyler, occasioned by the derailment of a mail train at Gertney,
Utah, January 14, 1907, while the deceased was riding
thereon. It appears that he was an assistant chief clerk
in the United States Railway Mail Service, and held a
commission or certificate signed by the Postmaster General in the following form:
"POSTOFFIcE

DEPARTMENT,

Washington, D. C.

"To Whom Concerned:
"The bearer hereof, Charles Albert Schuyler, has been
appointed an assistant chief clerk railway mail service
with headquarters Ogden, Utah, and will be obeyed and
respected accordingly. Railroad companies are requested
to extend to the holder of this commission the facilities of
free transportation on the lines named on opposite page.
If fare is charged receipt should be given. Valid only
when issued through the office of the second assistant
postmaster general and countersigned by James E. White.
'G. B. CORTELYOU.
"Countersigned:
"JAMES E. WHITE,
"General Superintendent."
On opposite page:
"Good between all stations Utah, Idaho, Nevada,
California, Montana, and Colorado."
The deceased had been called to go from Ogden, Utah, to
Oakland, California, on account of the illness of his child.
The child having died, he set out to return from Oakland
to Ogden, and took the mail train in question with the
knowledge of the train agent and conductor in charge,
using as evidence of his right to transportation the com-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. SCHUYLER.
227 U.S.

607

Opinion of the Court.

mission above quoted. It was on this interstate journey
that the train was derailed and the deceased came to his
death as already mentioned.
The defense (so far as here pertinent) was that the deceased was not traveling upon any official business that
entitled him to free transportation under his commission,
and that in riding free he was violating the act of Congress
of June 29, 1906, commonly called the Hepburn Act (34
Stat. 584, 585, c. 3591, ยง 1), which forbids common carriers
subject to the provisions of the act, after January 1, 1907,
to "directly or indirectly issue or give any interstate free
ticket, free pass, or free transportation for passengers,
except

to Railway Mail Service employ6s, post-

office inspectors, customs inspectors and immigration
inspectors;

and any person, other than the per-

sons exceptild in this provision, who uses any such interstate free ticket, free pass, or free transportation, shall be
subject to a like penalty." It was therefore contended
that the deceased was a trespasser, -and that the defendant
was und3r no legal duty to care for his safety.
In the trial court there was a verdict for the plaintiffs,
and from the judgment thereon the present plaintiff in
error appealed to the Utah Supreme Court, which at first
reversed, and afterwards, on a rehearing set aside the
reversal and affirmed the judgment below; subsequently
denying the company's application for a new trial. 37
Utah, 581, 595, 612.
The court held that there was no evidence to support a
finding that the deceased was traveling on appellant's
train in the discharge, or in pursuance, of duties pertaining
to the Railway Mail Service; and that upon the evidence
adduced the only permissible inference was that he left
Ogden and went to Oakland solely on account of the death
of his child, and that hewas on the return journey of that
mission when- the train was derailed.
But the court also found that the existence of the rela-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U1.S.

tion of carrier and 'passepger between the deceased and
the railroad company, and a breach of the duty of care
for the passenger's safety, resulting in his death, were so
conclusively made to appear as to entitle respondents to a
directed verdict on those issues, so that certain errors
committed by the trial 'court in the instructions to the
jury became of no consequence. The court said: "That
the car was derailed through the negligence of appellant
as alleged in the complaint, and that the deceased was
killed by reason of such derailment is, upon the record,
not open to controversy. No substantial conflict is presented by the evidence on that subject."
Upon the question of the relation of carrier and passenger the court reasoned as follows: "When he left Ogden
he entered a mail car in appellant's train. The -vidence
of his right to enter the mail car and be carried by appel-,
lant was the commission issued to him, which, on its face,
entitled him to transportation between all stations in
Utah, Nevada, and California. The commission, on its
face, granted 'the facilities of free transportation on the
lines named,' regardless of the question whether he was
or was not in the discharge of public duties. It was issued
to him before the Hepburn Act took effect. The derailinent and the deceased's death occurred 14 days after the
act took effect. It was admitted by the parties on the
trial that the deceased used the commission on the trip
as 'the evidence of his right to ride-the evidence of his
right of transportation,'-and that no question would be
raised with respect to the exhibition of the commission
to the conductor in charge of the train. The deceased, at
Oakland, in the presence of the conductor and train agent,
and with their knowledge, entered a mail car in a train
about to leave for Ogden, and impliedly with their consent, at least without their objection. In view of the
stipulation, and upon the whole record, we think the only
permissible inferences are, that the deceased, both in going

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. SCHUYLER.
227 U. S.

(09

Opinion of the Court.

to and in returning from Oakland, rode in the mail car
with the knowledge and consent of appellant's conductors
in charge of the train; that the appellant, its conductors
and agents in charge of the train, and the deceased, in
good faith, assumed and believed that the commission
entitled him to so ride and to be transported in the mail
car, regardless of the fact whether he was or was not on
duty, and that the commission was so treated and so
recognized by them, and as 'the evidence of his right of
transportation.' There is nothing in the record to support
the allegations in the answer that the deceased entered
the mail car without appellant's knowledge or consent, or
against its will, or with the intent, or for the purpose, of
deceiving or defrauding the appellant or the Government, or that he otherwise entered the car clandestinely
or fraudulently, or in bad faith, or with any wrongful design or purpose. The evidence, quite conclusively, shows
the contrary. The deceased was, therefore, not a trespasser."
In dealing with the questions of law arising from this
state of facts, the court held, first, that the Hepburn Act
does not forbid a carrier from giving free interstate
transportation to Railway Mail Service employds when
not on duty and when traveling for their own benefit or
pleasure, and, secondly, "Though the construction which
we have given the Hepburn Act should not be correct,
and though it was unlawful for the appellant to give, and
the deceased to receive, free transportation on his commission, when he was not on duty, yet we are also of the
opinion that, under all the circumstances of the case, the
appellant, having undertaken and assumed to carry and
ti ansport the deceased as a passenger by reason of the
commission, cannot escape liability for the consequences
of its negligence on that ground." And again: "We are
of the opinion that when a common carrier accepts a
person as a passenger, he is not permitted to deny that he
VoL. ccxxvi -39

OCTOBEIR "I'EIIM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

owes to him the duty of diligence, prudence, and skill,
which, as carrying on a public employment, he owes to all
his passengers; and that he cannot escape liability for a
negligent performance of that duty resulting in injury by
urging that the pass or commission was issued, or the
gratuitous passage permitted, by him, in violation of law."
As authority for this proposition the court cited Carroll
v. Staten Island R. R. Co., 58 N. Y. 126; Del., Lack: &
Western R. R. Co. ,v. Trautwein, 52 N. J. Law, 169; 7 L. R.
A. 435; 5Am. & Eng. Encyc. Law (2d ed.), 508, and other
authorities.
It is plain that the decision adverse to the plaintiff in
error was upon two independent grounds, the second
ground being avowe~lly based upon the hypothesis that
the court might be wrong in its decision upon the first,
Whethe, the Hepburn Act prohibits a carrier from giving free interstate transporthtion to the employ& of the
Railway Mail Service when they are not on duty but are
traveling for their own benefit or pleasure, is of course a
Federal question.
But whether-assuming that question to be answered
in the affirmative-the relation of carrier and passenger
arises in the case of gratuitous passage under circumstances such as are presented in this case, is (in the absence of an act of Congress regulating the matter) a question not of Federal but of state law.
It is settled by numerous decisions of this court that
where the decision in the state court adverse to the
plaintiff in error proceeds upon two independent grounds,
one of which' not involving a Federal question, is sufficient to sustain the judgment, the writ of error will be
dismissed or the judgment affirmed, according to circumstances. Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 635,
636; De Saussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216, 234; Hale v.
Akers, 13Z U. S. 554, 565; Hopkins v. McLure, 133 U. S.
380; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300; Beaupre v. Noyes,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. r. SCHUYLER.
227 U. S.

611

Opinion of the Court.

138 U. S. 397; Hammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73, 78;
Giles V. Teasley, 193 U. S. 146, 160; Allen v. Arguimbau,
198 U. S. 149, 154; Leathe v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93, 98.
In Murdock v. City of Memphis and Beaupre v. Noyes
this court affirmed the judgments of the state court. In
the other cases cited the writs of error were dismissed
without considering the Federal questions.
Except for two contentions of the plaintiff in error now
to be mentioned, a dismissal of the writ of error would
necessarily follow in the present case, since the second
ground of decision adopted in the state court is manifestly independent of the first and is fully sufficient to
support the judgment; and except for what follows it
involves no question of Federal right.
It is insisted (a) that there is no presumption that the
railroad company violated the prohibition of the Hepburn Act by granting to Schuyler a free interstate ride,
and that there is no evidence in the record to support such
conclusion; and while it is conceded that ordinarily, upon
writ of error to a state court, this court does not review
the findings of fact, yet it is insisted that in this case a
Federal right has been denied as the result of a finding of
fact which is without support in the evidence; that the
evidence is before us in the record by which that insistence
may be tested; and that the status of Schuyler as an interstate passenger is a mixed question of law and fact so that
it is incumbent upon us to analyze the evidence to the
extent necessary to give to plaintiff in error the benefit, of
its asserted Federal right. The insistence as to the power
and duty of this court in such a case is well founded.
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Albers Commission Co.,
223 U. S. 573, 591; Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rap1ids,
223 U. S. 655, 668; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225
U. S. 246, 261. We also agree there is no presumption
that the railroad company gave free transportation, and
that, this was a fact to be established by evidence. Ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

cepting the duty to review this -question of fact, we have
examined the evidence in the record and find that it
fairly supports the conclusion of the state court that the
deceased was accepted by plaintiff in error as a gratuitous
passenger.
But, finally, it is argued (b) that it was beyond the
power of the state court to "read into the Hepburn Act
an exception in favor of gratuitous passengers"; thereby
(as is gaid) enlarging the class to whom Congress limited
the right of free interstate transportation. This is ingenious, but, as we think, unsound. As applied to the
concrete case, it is equivalent to saying that the operationi
of the Hepburn Act is such as to deprive one who, in good
faith and without fraud, and with the consent of the
carrier, :but in actual though unintentional violation of
the prohibition of the act, accepts a free passage in interstate transportation, of the benefit of a rule of local law
that renders the carrier in such circumstances responsible
for exeroising care for the passenger's safety because the
carrier has voluntarily undertaken the burden of such
care. But the act itself declares what penalty shall be
imposed for a violation of its prohibition: "Any common
carrier violating this provision shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and for each offense, on conviction, shall
pay to the United States a penalty of not less than one
hundred dollars nor more than two thousand dollars, and
any person, other than the persons excepted in this provision, who uses any such interstate free ticket, free pass
or free transportation, shall be subject to a like penalty."
This penalty is not to be enlarged by construction.
Neither the letter nor the spirit of the act makes 'an outlaw of him who violates its prohibition by either giving
or accepting gratuitous interstate carriage. The deceased no more forfeited his life, limb or safety, and no
more forfeited his right to the protection accorded by the
local law to a passenger in his situation, than the carrier

STARR v. LONG JIM.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

forfeited its right of property in the mail car upon which
the deceased rode. His right to safe carriage was not derived, according to the lAw of Utah, from the contract
made between him and the carrier, and therefbre was not
deduced from the supposed violation of the Hepburn Act.
It arose from the fact that he was a human being, of whose
safety the plaintiff in error had undertaken the charge.
With its consent he had placed his life in its keeping, and
the local law thereupon imposed a duty upon the carrier,
irrespective of the contract of carriage. The Hepburn
Act does not deprive one who accepts gratuitous carriage,
under such circumstances, of the benefit and protection
of the law of the State in this regard.
It results that the judgment under review must be
affirmed, irrespective of the question whether the Hepburn Act forbids the giving of free interstate transportation to the employ~s of the Railway Mail Service when
not on duty.
Judgment affirmed.

STARR v. LONG JIM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 151.

Argued January 28, 1913.-Decided' February 24, 1913.

An agreement as to division and allotment of lands between the Secretary of the Interior and chiefs representing Indians which is informal in terms and is afterwards ratified by Congress should be
construed so as to confer upon'the Indians the full measure of benefit
intended.
The best interests of the Indians do not always require that they should
be allotted lands in fee rather than by having them held in trust by
the Government for them.

