MICH. CENT. R. R. v. VREELAND.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
VREELAND.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 242.

Argued Dccembler 4, 1912.-Dcided January 20, 1913.

If the constitutional questions on which the writ of error was based were
not foreclosed-when the writ was sued out, this court retains jurisdiction to consider other assignments-of error even if the constitutional
questions have meanwhile been decided in other cases adversely to
plaintiff in error.
The Employers' Liability Act of 1908 will not receive such a narrow
interpretation as to defeat all liability because the injured employ6
survived the injury for a brief period.
Congress has always had power under the commerce clause of the Constitution to regulate the liability of interstate carriers to their employ6s for injuries; but until it did act, the subject .was within the
police power of the States. Since the passage of the Employers'
Liability Act of 1908, that act is paramount-and exclusive and so
remains unless and until Congress shall again remit the subject to
the States. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137.
A Federal statute upon a subject exclusively under Federal control
must be construed by itself and cannot be pieced out by state legislation. If a liability does not exist under the Employers' Liability
Act of 1908, it does not exist by virtue of any state legislation
on the same subject.
At common law the right of action for an injury to the person is extinguished by the death of the party injured whether death be instantaneous or not, As the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 did not
provide for. any suth survival.the right was extinguished by death.
At common law loss and damage mayaccrueand a right of action accrue
to persons dependent upon one-wrongfully injured; but this cause of
action, except for loss of services prior to death, abates at the death.
The evident purpose, however, of Congress, in enacting the Employers'
Liability Act of 1908 was to save a right of action to certain relatives
dependent upon the employ6 wrongfully injured for the loss and
financial damage resulting from his death, and there is no express
or implied limitation of the liability to cases in which death was
instantaneous.
Tlis liability is for pecuniary damage only, and the statute should be
construed in this respect as Lord Campbell's Act has been construed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

60

227 U. S.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
not as granting a continuance of the right the injured employ4 had,
but as granting a new and independent cause of action.
The pecuniary loss recoverable under the Employers' Liability Act of
1908 by one dependent upon the employ6 wrongfully killed must be
a loss which can be measured by some standard, and does not include
an inestimable loss such as that of society and companionship of the
deceased or of care and advice in case of a husband for his wife.
There is no hard and fast rule by which pecuniary damages may be
measured in all cases.
A minor child sustains a loss from the death of a parent of a different
kind from thht of wife or husband from the death of the spouse; while
the former is capable of definite valuation the latter is not.
In this case the judgment under the Employers' Liability Act of 1908,
of damages for death of a husband who survived the injury for
a brief period, is reversed, because, although the wife was entitled to
maintain the. action notwithstanding the death was not instantaneous, the damages were not properly estimated as the court charged
the jury that they could consider the relation of husband and wife
and the care and advice of the former to the latter.
THE

facts are stated in the opin M.

Mr. Emery D. Potter, with whom Mr. Frank E. Robson,
Mr. Henry Russel and Mr. Charles P. Carroll were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The decision in Mondou v. Railroad Company, 223
U. S. 1, did not deprive this court of its jurisdiction to pass
upon other material and substantial questions raised on
this record, its jurisdiction having once rightfully vested.
For construction of the act of April 22, 1908, 35 Stat.
65; and the act of April 5, 1910, 36 Stat. 291, see
Adams v. Nor. Pac. R. R., 116 Fed. Rep. 324; Alder v.
Fleming, 159 Fed. Rep. 593; American R. R. Co. v. Birch,
224 U. S. 547; City v. Marfield, 63 Kansas, 794; Dolson v.
L. S. & M. S. Ry., 128 Michigan, 444; Ely v. Detroit United
Ry. Co., 162 Michigan, 287; Holton v. Dailey, 106 Illinois,
131; Jones v. McMillan, 129 -Michigan, 86; Kellow v.
CentralIowa Ry. Co., 68 Iowa, 470; Mulcahey v. Washburn
Car Co., 145 Massachusetts, 281; Nor. Pac.R. R. v. Adams,
192 U. S. 440, 450; Nourse v. Packard, 138 Massachusetts,

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. VREELAND.
*227 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

307; Oliver v. Street Ry. Co., 134 Michigan, 367; Railway
Co. v. Clark, 152 U. S. 230; Railway Co. v. Dawson, 68
Arkansas, 1; Railway Co. v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 131; Roundtree v. Adams Exp. Co., 165 Fed. Rep. 156; Sawyer v.
Perry, 88'Maine, 42; State v. Grand Trunk R. R. Co., 61
Maine, 144; Storrie v. Grand Trunk Elevator Co., 134
Michigan, 297; Sweetland'v. R. R. Co., 117 Michigan, 329;
West v. Detroit United Ry. Co., 159 Michigan, 269; see also
Michigan Survival Act, p.16 and Michigan Death Act, p. 17.
There was error in the charge of the court to the jury as
to the measure of damages. Davis v. Guarnieri, 45 Oh.
St. 471; Gas Co. v. Rogers, 135 S. NV. Rep. 904; Holton v.
Dailey, 106 Illinois, 132; May v. R. R. Co., 62 N. J. L. 63;
McHugh v. Schlosser, 159 Pa. St. 480; Nelson v. R. R., 140
Michigan, 582; Railroad Co. v. Bentz, 108 Tennessee, 670;
Railroad Co. v. Johnson, 78 Texas, 536; Railroad Co. v.
Walker, 125 S. W. Rep. 99; Railroad Co. v. Wilson, 48
Fed. Rep. 57;. Railway Co. v. Altemeier, 60 Oh. St. 10;
Railway Co. v. Austin, 68 Illinois, 126; Railway Co. v. Golway, 6 App. D. C. 144; Railway Co. v. Townsend, 69 Arkansas, 380; Steel v. Kurtz, 28 Oh. St. 191 ; Sternfelds v. Railway
Co., 73 N. Y. App. Div. 494; Swift & Co. v. Johnson, 138
Fed. Rep. 867; Walker v. R. R. Co., 111 Michigan, 518;
Webster's Int. Dict. 1895, see "care," "advice."
Mr. John B. Daish, with whom Mr. Joseph D. Sullivan
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The constitutional questions were abandoned by the
defendant below at the trial of the case, have since been
abandoned in its brief on the motion to dismiss or affirm,
and pending hearing of the case have been decided adversely to the contentions of the railroad company.
Assuming that all the questions raised by the assignments of error are properly before and can be considered
by this court, they will. be found upon examination to be
without merit.

OCTOBER .TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

227 U. S.

Unless the provisions of the particular statutes are distinctly and clearly to the contrary, it is the rule of the
Federal and many state courts that so long as the death of
the injured party is occasioned by acts within the statute,
it is immaterial whether or not the death and injury are
simultaneous. Roach v. Imperial Min. Co., 7 Fed. Rep.
698; Roach v. Cons. Imp. M. Co., 7 Sawy. 224, construing
Nevada law; Matz v. Chicago, &c. R. Co., 85 Fed. Rep.
180, construing Missouri law; Sternenberg v. Mailhos (C.
C. A.), 99 Fed. Rep. 43, construing Texas law; S1. Louis
&c. R. Co. v. Dawson, 68 Arkansas, 1; Murphy v. N. Y.
&c. R. Co,, 38 Connecticut, 184; Mallot v. Shimer, 153
Indiana, 35, construing Illinois law; Conners v. Burlington
&c. R. Co., 71 Iowa, 490; Warden v. Humeston &c. R. Co.,
72 Iowa, 201; Brown v. Buffalo &c. R. Co., 22 N. Y. 191;
Perham v. PortlandElec. Co., 33 Oregon, 451; Internat'l
&c. R. Co. v. Kindred, 57 Texas, 491; Boyden v. Fetchbury,
&c. R. Co., 7b Vermont, 125; Van Amberg v. Vicksburg &c.
R. Co., 37 La. Ann. 651; Hamilton v. Morgan's L. &c. R.
Co., 42 La. Ann. 824; Legg v. Britton, 64 Vermont, 652.
Of course, where States have so-called "survival acts"
and a statute creating a new cause of action (as in Michigan) it would appear to be a salutary rule that an administrator can recover damages under the latter statute only
if death is instantaneous, and if the death is not instantaneous he can recover under the former statute. Sweetland v. Chicago &c. R. Co., 117 Michigan, 329; Dolson
v. Lake Shore &c. R. Co., 128 Michigan, 444; Kyes v.
Valley Telephone Co., 132 Michigan, 281; Oliver v. Houghton S. R. Co., 134 Michigan, 367. Such statutes are
clearly distinguishable from the one under consideration;
also such statutes as exist in Maine (Sawyer v. Perry, 88
Maine, 42). In truth, the rule in Michigan and Maine
seems to be and justifiably is (by reason of the language
of. the acts) at variance with the rule elsewhere.
To read into this act (and it is necessary so to do to sus-

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. VREELAND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tain the propositions in the second and third assignments
of error) the word "instantaneous" or "immediate"
death would change the plain and unambiguous words
of the statute and nullify the beneficent purposes for which
it was enacted by the Congress.
There was no error in the instruction that in assessing
the pecuniary damages which the widow sustained the
jury might consider the relation that was sustained by
husband and wife, and draw upon their experience as men,
what it would have reasonably been worth to the wife in
dollars and cents, to have had during their life together,
had he lived, the care and advice of her husband. Nor.
Pac. R. R. Co. v. Freeman, 83 Fed. Rep. 82; Felt v. Puget
Sound Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 177; Bollinger v. St. Paul &
Duluth R. R. Co., 35 Minnesota, 418; Chattanooga R. R.
Co. v. Clowdis (Ga.), 17 S. E. Rep. 88; Mo. Pac. R. Co. v.
Bond, 2 Tex. Civ. App. 104.
As to children whose parents are killed, see Tilley v.
P. R. R. Co., 29 N. Y. 252; St. Louis &c. R. Co. v. Haddry,
57 Arkansas, 306; Stoher v. St. L., I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 91
Missouri, 509; Walker v. McNiell, 17 Washington, 582.
If the care and guidance and advice of the father is of
pecuniary value to the children, likewise is the care and
advice of the husband of value to his wife.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action under the Employers' Liability
Act of April 22, 1908, to recover damages for the wrongful
death of the intestate, an employ6 in the service of the
railroad company. The constitutionality of the act was
drawn in question by the plaintiff in error in the court
below and this afforded ground for bringing the case
directly to this court. Since the allowance of the writ
of error all of the constitutional questions have been
decided adversely to the plaintiff in error. Mondou v.
RailroadCompany, 223 U. S. 1. But this does not justify

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

our dismissing the case, since the constitutional questions
which gave the right to bring it here were not foreclosed
when the writ was allowed, and we, therefore, have jurisdiction to consider other assignments of error.
These relate to the construction of the act and the
measure of damages thereunder. Sections 1 and 2 of
the act of April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, c. 149, and § 2 of
the amendatory act of April 5, 1910, 36 Stat. 291, c. 143,
are set out in the margin.'
1 SEc. 1. That every common carrier by railroad while engaging in

commerce between any of the several States or Territories, or between
any of the States and Territories, or between the District of Columbia
and any of the States or Territories, or between the District of Columbia or any of the States or Territories and any foreign nation or nations,
shall be liable in damages to any perqon suffering injury while he is
employed by such carrier in such commerce, or, in case of the death of
such employ6, to his or her personal representative, for the benefit of
the surviving widow or husband and children"of such employ6; and, if
none, then'of such employ6's parents; and, if none, then of the next of
kin dependent upon such employ6, for such injury or death resulting
in whole or in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents, or
employ6s of such carrier, or by reason of any defect or insufficiency,
due to its negligence, in its cars, engines, appliances, machiner ',track,
roadbed, works, boats, wharves, or other equipment.
SEC. 2. That every common carrier by railroad in the Territories,
the District of Columbia, the Panama Canal Zone, or other possessions
of the United States shall be liable in damages to any person suffering
injury while he is employed by such carrier in any of said jurisdictions,
or, in case of the death of such employ6, to his or her personal representative, for the benefit of the surviving widow or husband and children
of such employ 6 ; and, if none, then of such employ6's parents; and, if
none, then of the next of kin dependent upon such employ6, for such
injury or death resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of any
of the officers, agents, or employ6s of such carrier, or by'reason of any
defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, works, boats, wharves, or other
equipment.
Section 2 of the Act of April 5, 1910:

That said Act be further amended by adding the following section as
section nine of said Act:

MICH. CENT. A. R. v. VREELAND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This case, however, involves only a construction of the
act prior to the amendment referred to.
The decedent survived his injuries for several hours.
His personal representative has brought this action not
for the injury suffered by his intestate, but for the loss
suffered by his widow as a consequence of his wrongful
death.
For the railroad company it has been argued that the
fact that the injured employ6 survived his injuries for
several hours operates to extinguish its liability for both
the wrongful injury and the death which ensued. The
view of counsel seems to be that the act declared a single
liability and constituted a cause of action in behalf of
the injured person if he survived, or, in case his death
was instantaneous, a cause of action 'for the benefit of
the specified dependent relatives surviving. This is a narrow interpretation of the act and would operate to defeat
all liability unless the injured person should survive long
enough to conduct his action to a recovery.
We think the act declares two distinct and independent
liabilities, resting, of course, upon the common foundation
of a wrongful injury, but based upon altogether different
principles. It plainly declares the liability of the carrier
to its injured servant. If he had survived he might have
recovered such damages as would have compensated
him for his expense, loss of time, suffering and diminished
earning power. But if he does not live to recover upon his
own cause of action, what then? Does any right of action
survive his death and pass to his representative? This
is a question which depends upon the statute.
SEC. 9. That any right of action given by this Act to a person suffering injury shall survive to his or her personal representative, for the
benefit of the surviving widow or husband and children of such employ6, and, if none, then of such employ6's parents; and, if none, then
of the next of kin dependent upon such employ6, but in such cases there
shall be only one recovery for the same injury.
VOL. ccxxvII-5

OCTOBER TERAI',

1912.

Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

We may not piece out this act of Congress by resorting
to the local statutes of the State of procedure or that of
the injury. The act is one which relates to the liability
of railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce
to their employ~s while engaged in such commerce.
The power of Congress to deal with the subject comes
from its power to regulate commerce between the States.
Prior to this act Congress had not deemed it expedient
to legislate upon the subject, though its power was ample.
"The subject," as observed by this court in Mondou v.
Railroad Co., 223 U. S. 1, 54, "is one which falls within
the, police power of the State in the absence of legislation
by Congress." Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Alabama,
128 U. S.96, 99. By this act Congress has undertaken to
cover the subject of the liability of railroad companies
to their employs injured while engaged in interstate
commerce. This exertion of a power which is granted in
express terms must supersede all legislation over the
same subject by the States. Thus, in Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98, 104, it was said, in
reference to state legislation touching freight rates upon
interstate freight which conflicted with the legislation of
Congress upon the same subject, that:
"Generally it may be said in respect to laws of this
character that, though resting upon the police power of
the State, they must yield whenever Congress, in the
exercise of the powers granted to it, legislates upon the
precise subject-matter, for that power, like all other
reserved powers of the States, is subordinate to those in
terms conferred by the Constitution upon the Nation.
'No urgency for its use can authorize a State to exercise
it. in regard to a subject-matter which has been confided
exclusively to the discretion of Congress by the Constitution.' Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S.259, 271. 'Definitions of the police power must, however, be taken, subject
to the condition that the State cannot, in its exercise,

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. VREELAND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for any purpose whatever, encroach upon the powers
of the general government, or rights granted or secured
by the supreme law of the land.' New Orleans Gas Co. v.
Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 661. 'While it may
be a police power in the sense that all provisions for the
health, comfort, and security of the citizens are police
regulations, and an exercise of the police power, it has
been said more than once in this court that, where such
powers are so exercised as to come within the domain
of Federal authority as defined by the Constitution,
the latter must prevail.' Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S.
455, 464."
It therefore follows that in respect of state legislation
prescribing the liability of such carriers for injuries to
their employ6s while engaged in interstate commerce
this act is paramount and exclusive, and must remain
so until Congress shall again remit the subject to the
reserved police power of the States. Reid V. Colorado,
187 U. S. 137, 146.
The statutes of many of the States expressly provide for
the survival of the right of action which the injured person
might have prosecuted if he had survived. But unless this
Federal statute which declares the liability here asserted
provides that the right of action shall survive the death of
the injured employ6, it does not pass to his representative,
notwithstanding state legislation. The question of survival is not one of procedure, "but one which depends on
the substance of the cause of action." Schreiber v. Sharpless, 110 U. S. 76, 80; Martinv. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,
151 U. S.673.
Nothing is better settled than that at common law the
right of action for an injury to the person is extinguished by
the death of the party injured. The rule "Actio personalis
moritur cum persona" applies, whether the death from the
injury be instantaneous or not. The act of 1908 does not
provide for any survival of the right of action created in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

behalf of an injured employ6. That right of action was
therefore extinguished. The act has been many times so
construed by the Circuit Courts. We cite a few of the
cases: Fulgham v. Railway, 167 Fed. Rep. 660; Walsh v.
Railroad, 173 Fed. Rep. 494.
At common law loss and damage may, in some cases,
accrue to persons dependent upon one wrongfully injured
and a right of action in some cases arises in their behalf.
But this cause of action, except for loss of personal services, before the death, abates at the death.
In Baker v. Bolton, 1 Campbell, 493, Lord Ellenborough
ruled that "in a civil court, the death of a human being
could not be complained of as an injury." Mobile Life
Ins. Co. v. Brame, 95 U. S. 754, 756; The Harrisburg 119
U. S. 199, 204.
The obvious purpose of Congress was to save a right of
action to certain relatives dependent upon an employ6
wrongfully injured, for the loss and damage resulting to
them financially by reason of the wrongful death. Thus,
after declaring the liability of the employer to the injured
servant, it adds,-"or in case of the death of such employ6, to his or her personal representatives, for the
bepefit of the surviving widow or husband and children
of such employ6; and, if none, then of such employ6's
parents;, and, if none, then of the next of kin dependent
upon such employ6, for such injury or death," etc. There
is no express or implied limitation of the liability to cases
in which the death was instantaneous.
This cause of action is independent of any cause of action which the decedent had, and includes no damages
which he might have recovered for his injury if he had
survived. It is one beyond that which the decedent had,one proceeding upon altogether different principles. It is
a liability for the loss and damage sustained by relatives
.dependent upon the decedent. It is therefore a liability for
the pecuniary damage resulting to them and for that only.

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. VREELAND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The statute in giving an action for the benefit of certain
members of the family of the decedent is essentially
identical with the first act which ever provided for a cause
of action arising out of the death of a human being, that
of 9 and 10 Victoria, known as Lord Campbell's Act. This
act has been, in its distinguishing features, reenacted in
many of the States, and both in the courts of the States
and of England has been construed not as operating as a
continuance of any right of action which the injured person would have had but for his death, but as a new or
independent cause of action for the purpose of compensating certain dependent members of the family for the
deprivation, pecuniarily, resulting to them from his
wrongful death. For convenience in comparing Lord
Campbell's Act with the act of Congress of 1908, the first
and second sections of the former are set out in the margin.'
In one of the earliest cases which arose under the act,
Coleridge, J., said:
"It will be evident that this act does not transfer this
right of action to his representative, but gives to the
representative a totally new right of action, on different
principles." Blake v. Midland Ry. Co., 18 Q. B. 93, 109.
In Seward v. The Vera Cruz, 10 App. Cases, 59, Lord
Blackburn said:
Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful act,
neglect or default, and the act, neglect or default is such as would (if
death had not ensued) have entitled the party injured to maintain an
action and recover damages in respect thereof, then and in every such
case the person who would have been liable if death had not ensued
shall be liable to an action for damages, notwithstanding such death, etc.
The second section provides that,Every such action shall be for the benefit of the wife, husband,
parent, and child of the person whose death shall have been so caused,
and shall be brought by and in the name of the executor or administrator of the person deceased; and in every such action the jury may
give such damagesas they may think proportioned to the injury resulting from such death to the parties respectively for whom and for whose
benefit such action shall be brought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

"A totally new action is given against the person who
would have been responsible to the deceased if the deceased had lived; an action which . .
is new in its
species, new in its quality, new in its principle, in every
way new, and which can only be brought if there is any
pei-on answering the description of the widow, parent, or
child, who under such circumstances suffers pecuniary loss."
But as the foundation of the right of action is the original wrongful injury to the decedent, it has been generally
hcld that the new action is a right dependent upon the
existence of a right in the decedent immediately before
his death to have maintained ar4'action for his wrongful
injury. Tiffany, Death by Wrongful Act, § 124; Louisville,
E. & St. L. R. R. Co. v. Clark, 152 U. S. 230; Read v. G. E.
Ry., L. R. 3 Q. B. 555; Hecht v. 0. & M. Ry., 132 Indiana,
507; Fowlkes v. Nashville & Decatur R. R. Co., 9 Heisk.
829; Littlewood v. Mayor, 89 N. Y. 24; Southern Bell Tel.
Co. v. Cassin, 111 Georgia, 575.
The distinguishing features of that act are identical
with the act of Congress of 1908 before its amendment:
First, it is grounded upon the original wrongful injury of
the person; second, it is for the exclusive benefit of certain
specified relatives; third, the damages are such as flow
from the deprivation of the pecuniary benefits which the
beneficiaries might have reasonably received if the deceased had not died from his injuries.
The pecuniary loss is not dependent upon any legal
liability of the injured person to the beneficiary. That is
not the sole test. There must, however, appear some
reasonable expectation of pecuniary assistance or support
of which they have been deprived. Compensation for
such loss manifestly does not include damages by way of
recompense for grief or wounded feelings. Tiffany, Death
by Wrongful Act, §§ 153, 154; Illinois Cent. R. R. Co. v.
Barron, 5 Wall. 90, 105, 106; Davis v. Guarnieri, 45 Oh.
St. 470; Blake v. Midland Railway, cited above; Hurst v.

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. VREELAND.
227 U. S.

Opiion of the Court.

Delroi* City Railway, 84 Michigan, 539, 545; Munro v.
Pacific Dredging Company, 84 California, 515.
The word "pecuniary" did not appear in Lord Campbell's Act, nor does it appear in our act of 1908. But the
former act and all those which follow it have been continuously interpreted as providing only for compensation
for pecuniary loss or damage.
A pecuniary loss or damage must be one which can be
measured by some standard. It is a term employed
judicially, "not only to express the character of the loss
of the beneficial plaintiff which is the foundation of the
recovery, but also to discriminate between a material loss
which it;
susceptible of pecuniary valuation, and that inestimable loss of the society and companionship of the
deceased relative upon which, in the nature of things, it is
not possible to set a pecuniary valuation." Patterson,
Railway Accident Law, § 401.
Nevertheless, the word as judicially adopted is not so
narrow as to exclude damages for the loss of services of
the husband, wife, or child, and, when the beneficiary is a
child, for the loss of that care, counsel, training and education which it might, under the evidence, have reasonably
received from the parent, and which can only be supllied
by the service of another for compensation.
In Tilley v. Hiudson Rier Railboad, 24 N. Y. 471, and
29 N. V. 252, the court. stated that. "the word 'pecuniary'.
was used in distinction to those injuries to the affections
and sentiments which irise from the death of relatives,
and which, though greivous and painful to be borne,
('flinot be nmeasured or recolpensed in money. It excludes, also, those losses which result from the deprivation of the society and companionship, which are equally
incal)able of being delined by any recognized measure of
damage s."
To the saine effect are the cases of Schaub v. Hanibal

& St. J. 1Iillm!] Compally, 106 Missouri, 74; S. C., 16

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

S. W. Rep. 924, which was followed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in Atchison &c. Ry. v.
Wilson, 48 Fed. Rep. 57; Lett v. Railway, 11 Ontario
App. 1; Pennsylvania Railroad v. Goodman, 62 Pa. St.
329, 339; Railroad v. Rush, 127 Indiana, 545; Tiffany,
Death by Wrongful Act, §§ 154 to 162, inclusive; Patterson, Railway Accident Law, §§ 401 to 406.
No hard and fast rule by which pecuniary damages may
in all cases be measured is possible. In Lett v. Railway,
cited above, it was said (p. 29) in the opinion of Patterson, J. A., after a review of all the English cases construing the act of Lord Campbell"That there is through them all the same principles of
construction applied to the statute. Each fresh state of
facts as it arose was dealt with, and furnished a further
illustration of the working of the Act. The party claiming
was held to be entitled or not to be entitled, the scale of
compensation acted upon by the jury was approved or disapproved, in view of the immediate circumstances; but in
no case has it been attempted to decide by anticipation
what are the limits beyond which the benefit of the statute
cannot be claimed."
The rule for the measurement of damages must differ
according to the relation between the parties plaintiff and
the decedent, "according as the action is brought for the
benefit of the husband, wife, minor child or parent of
minor child, for the loss of services or support to which the
beneficiary was legally entitled, or is brought for the benefit
of a person whose damages consist only in the loss of a prospective benefit to which he was not legally entitled." Tiffany, Death by Wrongful Act, §§ 158, 160, 161, 162.
The court below instructed the jury that they could
not allow damages for the grief and sorrow of the widow,
or as a "balm to her feelings." They were directed to
confine themselves to a proper compensation for the loss
of any pecuniary benefit which would reasonably have

MICH. CENT. R. R. v. VREELAND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

been derived by her from the decedent's earnings. The
court did not stop there, but further instructed the jury,
that, "In addition to that, independent of what he was
receiving from the company, his employer, it is proper to
consider the relation that was sustained by Mr. Wisemiller
and Mrs. Wisemiller, namely, the relation of husband and
wife, and draw upon your experiences as men and measure,
as far as you can, what it would have reasonably been
worth to Mrs. Wisemiller in dollars and cents to have had,
during their life together, had he lived, the care and advice
of Mr. Wisemiller, her husband." This threw the door
open to'the widest speculation. The jury was no longer
confined to a consideration of the financial benefits which
might reasonably be expected from her husband in a
pecuniary way.
A minor child sustains a loss from the death of a parent,
and particularly of a mother, of a kind altogether different
from that of a wife or husband from the death of the
spouse. The loss of society and companionship, and of
the acts of kindness which originate in the relation and
are not in the nature of services, are not capable of being
measured by ahy material standard. But the duty of the
mother to minor children is that of nurture, and of intellectual, moral and physical training, such as when obtained from others must be for financial compensation.
In such v case it has been held that the deprivation is
such as to admit of definite valuation, if there be evidence
of the fitness of the parent and that the child has been
actually deprived of such advantages. Tilley v. Railroad
Co. and Lett v. Railway Company, both cited above. If
the case at bar had been of such a character, the loss of
"care and advice" might have been a proper matter for
compensation.
Neither "care" nor "advice," as used by the court
below, can be regarded as synonymous with "support"
and "maintenance," for the court said it was a deprivation

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

to be measured over and above support and maintenance.
It is not beyond the bounds of supposition that by the
death of the intestate his widow may have been deprived
of some actual customary service from him, capable of
measurement by some pecuniary standard, and that in
some degree that service might include as elements "care
and advice." But there was neither allegation nor eviclence of such loss of service, care, or advice; and yet, by
the instruction given, the jury were left to conjecture and
speculation. They were told to estimate the financial
value of such "care and advice from their own experiences as men." These experiences which were to be the
standard would, of course, be as various as their tastes,
habits and opinions. It plainly left it open to the jury to
consider the value of the widow's loss of the society and
companionship of her husband.
In this part of the charge the court erred. The assignments of error are otherwise overruled. But for this error
the judgment must be reversed and a new trial ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the result.

GRANT AND BURLINGAME v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.

No. 831.

Argued January 6, 1913.-Decided January 20, 1913.

A judgment for criminal contempt is reviewable only by writ of error.
An appeal will not lie.
Only the person charged with contempt can sue out the writ of error;
one who appeared simply to state his claim to the books and papers
mentioned in the subpoena does not thereby become a party to the
proceeding and he has no standing to sue out a writ of error.
Professional privilege does not relieve an attorney from producing

