ZIMMERMAN
27U. S.

v. HARDING.

yl'b.

ZIMMERMAN v. HARDING.
HARDING v. ZIMMERMAN.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR, PORTO RICO.
No,. 771, R94.

5ubritd .limtrv 10. 1.12

--D,,ided

February 24, 1913.

A partnership formed to run a-hotel for which a lease is obtained held
in the absence of any stipulation as to duration to be for the term of
the lease.
Where partnerships are regulated by statute, as in Porto Ri.co, the
rights of one att empting to dissolve depend upon the statute rather
than on general lav applicable elsewhere.
The right to dissolve under § 1(07; Civil ('ode Porto Rico, is confined
jo partnerships the duration of which has Ifot been fixed; under
1609 a partnership for fixed duration. can only te (ti.sol%-ed for
sutii'iept cause shown to The court, and one attempting to dissolve
before the fix(.d
termination and to exclude the other front parI icipation tnust accoun to the latter for his share of the profits utiIiI
the court deerces a dissolution in a suit brought to dissolve.
Partnership property continues to be such after as well as before dissolution.
Where one party attempts to illegally dissolve a partnership without
suit-and subsequently the other brings a suit for dissolution in accordanwe with the statute the former must account for all profits
until the final decree of dissolution.
T'l doctrine of election is applicable as between inconsistent remedies;
but does'not apply to a partner, wrongfully excluded from participation. He does not lose his right to an accounting because he first
starts an action at law wxhich he subsequently dismisses.
There nmy be a recovery at law for damages resulting from a breach of
the partnership agreement as well as an action for accounting in
equity for the same breach, and a partner wrongfully excluded from

zianagemlent and profits need not wait for the end of the period but
may show in an action at law his probable profits.
One who wrongfully excludes the other partner from management of
the. part iership affairs is not. entitled to a salary for managing theit
during such period of exclusion.
This court can only review an improper allowance of salary to a pariTer
where an exception has been filed to such allowance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Staitement of the Case.

227 U. S.

Where the case has been tried in an irregular manner and items arc
allowed in the final decree which do not appear in the auditor's or
master's report, this court cannot attempt to correct errors assigned
here and will presume that the decree so far as it stands upon questions of fact is supported by evidence not objected to.

THE case in substance is this:

The appellee, Harding, undertook to obtain a lease from
the owner of a hotel property situated in a suburb of
San Juan, Porto Rico, and an option of purchase. The
parties agreed upon the rental, term of the lease and upon
an option of purchase during the term of the lease, but
the owners required Harding to associate himself with
another person, as co-lessee, satisfactory to them. After
some negotiations Harding arranged with the appellant,
Mrs. Zimmerman, to join him in the lease and option and
to form a partnership to operate the hotel. Each agreed
to contribute one-half of an agreed capital, their personal
services and to share in the profits and losses, equally.
The agreement of partnership was never reduced to writing, and there was no express stipuation as to its duration.
Under date of February 1, 1911, the owners of the hotel
property executed a lease to the partnership for the term
of two years, with right of renewal for another term of two
years at an advanced rental. This lease included an
option of purchase during the term at a price named.
Thereupon the partnership took possession of the property and -its operation as a hotel. Harding undertook
the office side of affairs and Mrs. Zimmerman the other
departments. The business seems to have run along
smoothly and with profit until about August 9, 1911,
when Mrs. Zimmerman, who was in sole charge by reason
of the temporary absence of Harding upon a vacation in
the United States, assumed of her own motion to dissolve
the partnership. To this end she notified Harding by
letter that she had dissolved the relation and published
ai card in the local papers that the partnership had been

2IMMEJOAAN
227 1. R,

u. HARDING.

Coiinsd for thv Part.ies.

(i ,>olved,and that she would thenceforth conduct the

1)lsiness for her own benefit. From that moment she
assumed the entire ownership and possession of the partiiership business and property. Harding was excluded
from all possession, control or voice, and all benefits which
had accrued, she claiming that he had drawn more than
his share upon an accounting.
When Harding returned to San Juan, he at once brought
an action at law against Mrs. Zimmerman to recover
dainages fol the breach of the partnership contract. This
suit was removed by Mrs. Zimmerman to the District
Court of the United States for the District of Porto Rico.
Thereupon Harding obtained leave to dismiss his action
al law, without prejudice, and filed this bill. Its object
was to obtain a decree of dissolution and an accounting
of the partnership affairs.. The appointment of a receiver
to manage the business pending the litigation was at once
sought by Harding under the averments of the bill. This
was resisted, and denied by the court. Upon the coming
in of her answer an auditor was appointed to report upon
the partnership accounts. Mrs. Zimmerman remained in
full control of the hotel business down to the date of final
decree,; May 18, 1912, by which the partnership was dissolved. At that date a special master was put in charge
of the business to conduct it until a sale of the assets should
be had and distribution made. The partnership property,
including the unexpired term of the lease, was sold and the
auditor and master's report confirmed. The final result
was that the share of Harding in the proceeds of the business, including profits realized to date of sale was fixed
at $3,008.02, and that of Mrs. Zimmerman at $4,878.22.
From this decree both parties have appealed.
Mr.N. B. K. Pettingill for Zimmerman.
Mr. H. IL Sco'illh aid Mr.

Willis Sweet for Hardin,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 T. S.

MR. JUSTICE LUnTON, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

We agree with the court below that although there was
no express stipulation as to the duration of the partnership agreement, it was by implication to continue during
the term of the lease of the hotel property. The term had,.
therefore, not expired when on August 9, 1911, Mrs.
Zimmerman, of her own motion, declared it at an end.
Her right to withdraw or terminate the agreement at her
own will, the agreement being for the term of the lease,
depends primarily upon the law of Porto Rico, rather than
the general law applicable elsewhere The matter is
regulated by §§ 1607 and 1600. of the Civil Code of Porto
Rico. These sections are set. out in the margin.'
The suggestion is that § 1607 applies only to a case
where one partner desires to turn over the business and
responsibility to the other. This is too narrow. The
plain mandate is that a dissolution shall occur at the will
or withdrawal of one partner only when the duration of
the partnership has not been fixed. Section 1609 obviously

deals with a dissolution upon application to a corot for
sufficient reason shown. But whether a dissolution declared on the motion of one of the members might be
justified when later challenged, if sufficient reason for the
I

Section 1607. The dissolution of the partnership by the will or

withdrawal of one of the partners shall only take place when a term for

its duration has not been fixed, or if this term does not appear from the
nature of the business. In order that the withdrawal may be of effect,
it must be made in good faith at the proper time; notice thereof shall
also be given to the other partners.
Section 1609. No partner can demand the dissolution of a partnership which either, by a provision of the articles or by the nature of the
business, has been constituted for a specified time unless there should
exist sufficient reason, such as when one of the partners fails to comply
with his obligations, or when he becomes incapacitated for the partnership business, or any other similar cause, in the judgment of the courts.

ZIMMERMAN i,. HARDING.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act was shown, is academic, so far as this appeal is affected,
because the court below upon oral evidence, including that
of both parties, found that no good reason in law or fact
existed for the dissolution declared on August 9, 1911 by
Mrs. Zimmerman. The oral evidence heard by the court
in relation to the matter has not been sent up and we must
presume the conclusion sound. We shall therefore assume
that the partnership continued in law, until dissolved by
decree for sufficient reason on May 18, 1912. As the court
refused to appoint a receiver pendente lite upon Harding's
application when his bill was filed and permitted Mr.
Zimmerman to continue to conduct the partnership business, she was justly held accountable for Ilarding's 'share
in the profits made during that time.
The principal argument has turned upon the consequence to be attached to the action at law brought by
,Iarding. The claim made by the appellant, Mrs. Zimmerman, is that the bringing of that action was a conclusive
election between two inconsistent remedies, and that it
operated as a bar to any remedy under the present bill.
If this is the case the result must be deplored, for the dismissal of this bill would leave Mrs. Zimmerman in full
possession of the fruits of her lawless conduct in excluding
Harding from all interest and control of the joint business,
with only theright to begin over again an action at law to
recover his damages.
But we think the doctrine of the election of remedies
has no proper application here. The essential element of
that rule is that there must have been a right of choice
between two remedies which are inconsistent with each
other. Bierce v. Hutchins, 205 U. S. 340. The argument
is that the bringing of the suit at law was an election to'
treat the contract of partnership as at an end, and to recover damages for the breach, including profits prevented,
while the bill in equity was based upon the theory that
the partnership was continuing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

But that is a misconception of the bill. It states the
same facts stated in the suit at law and alleges the illegality of the defendant's declaration of dissolution and the
plaintiff's illegal exclusion from the control and possession
of the joint property. But the bill does not seek a restoration of the partnership relation, nor a restoration to the
joint possession or management of the partnership business. Upon the contrary, it states that a continuance of
such relation is impossible. It therefore asked to have
the business placed at once in the hands of a receiver and
the partnership affairs liquidated and the partnership
dissolved. This latter relief is but an incident to the
liquidation sought of a precautionary character.
Whether the partnership had been effectually dissolved
by the declaration of Mrs. Zimmerman on August 9, 1911,
or not, her action in excluding Harding from joint possession and control until the affairs had been womd up was,
upon either hypothesis, wholly indefensible. The partnership property continued to be partnership property
after as well as before dissolution.
When she assumed the right to take possession for herself and to carry on the business with the partnership
property, Harding had a clear right to call her to account
for his share in all of the joint property and at his election
to require her to account for the profits, by way of damages or otherwise, which he had been prevented from
making by his wrongful exclusion from the business. Ambler v. Whipple, 20 Wall. 546; Pearce v. Ham, 113 U. S.
585, 593; Karrickv. Hannaman, 168 U. S. 328, 337; Holmes
v. Gilman, 138 N. Y. 369.
Neither is the remedy in equity for a breach of a partnership agreement exclusive. There may be at law a
recovery of all the damages which result, including danages for profits prevented by a wrongful dissolution. Thus
if one member assumes to dissolve a partnership before
the end of the term, the other may bring an action for

ZIMMERMAN v. HARDING.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

damages for the breach and recover not only his interest,
but also his share of the profits which might have been
made during the term. He need not wait until the expiration of the period and need not go into equity for
an accounting, but may at law show the probable profit:;
which he has been deprived of. Bagley v. Smith, 10 N. Y.
489; Dennis v. Maxfeld, 10 Allen (Mass.), 138; Karrick
v. Hannaman, 168 U. S. 328, 337.
The remedy at law was in every substantial feature
consistent with that sought by his bill in equity, and no
other form of suit was admissible in the local court. Both
suits were pecuniary. Both sought compensation upon
the same facts. In one Harding sought a judgment for
damages which would include all that he could have in
equity as the result of an accounting. The jurisdiction in
equity in suits for winding up partnerships is based upon
its jurisdiction in matters of complicated accounts. A
dissolution, or a receivership, are mere incidents to its
principal ground of jurisdiction. That in his equity suit
Harding sought relief in respect to some matters not
involved in or beyond the jurisdiction of the law court
does not affectthe question of election. That he asked to
have the partnership formally declared dissolved by
reason of the conduct of Mrs. Zimmerman was not antagonistic to any position he assumed in his suit at law.
It was a mere incident to his right to hold her to an accounting for his share in the business. He sought to have
the business wound up by a receiver. This Mrs. Zimmerman prevented and she was suffered to remain in sole
possession., If she has been held to account for the profits
made during that time, she cannot complain.
It has been assigned as error that Mrs. Zimmerman
.':as allowed salary for her service in the management of
the business after she assumed to be managing for herself. The partnership contract made no provision fur
the allowance of salaries to either partner. In the view

)(TOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

of the court below the exclusion of Harding from joint
possession and management was without authority. In
such circumstances it seems inconsistent that Mrs. Zimmerman should be allowed for services which she wrongfully took upon herself because she had unlawfully excluded
Harding from participation. Probably upon the theory
that her management had resulted in profit in which
Harding was permitted to share it was thought equitable
thit she should be compensated. However this may be
and reluctant as we are to its allowance (Karrick v. H(n-naman, cited above) we are unable to find that any exception was filed to the allowance in the auditor's repor-.
It does appear that the court directed the auditor to reduce
the amount, which was done. But whether that was done
upon an exception to the amount as excessive, or to any
allowance at all, we have no information.
There is also an objection to a charge against Harding
of $618 on account of some trouble with his accounts for
bar receipts. The credit was made by order of the court
in the final decree. There is no trace of the item in either
the auditor's or master's reports. This would be ordinarily enough to justify us in shutting the item out. But this
case seems to have been proceeded with in a most irregular
way. There are references in the opinion and in the
auditor's: report to oral evidence and oral statements
which have not been made a part of the transcript. If
the parties elect to try a case in such an irregulai way,
we must presume that the decree, so far as it stands uponi
questions of fact, was supported by ev.idence not objected
to.
All of the, assignments must be overruled and the, decree
affirmed.

