TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO.
227 U. S.

111

Syllabus.

States power to deal with all liquors coming from outside
their limits upon arrival and before sale, thus rendering
the state police authority more complete and efficacious
on the subject; a purpose which would be plainly set at
naught by exempting liquors brought into a State from a
foreign country from the operation of the statute. Indeed
to adopt the construction urged would not only give rise
to the contradictions which the analysis of the contentibns
thus make plain, but would compel us to say that Congress
intended by the Wilson Law to confer upon foreign producers of liquor a right which was specifically denied to
liquor of domestic production.
Affirmed.

TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY
v. SABINE TRAM COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 93.

Argued December 17, 18, 1912.-Decided January 27, 1913.

Shipments of lumber on local bills of lading from one point in a State
to another point in the same State destined from the beginning for
export, under the circumstances of this case, .are foreign and not
intrastate commerce. Southern Pacific Terminal v. Interstate Com-

merce Commission, 219 U. S. 498; Ohio Railroad Commission v.
Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, followed. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry.
v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403, distinguished.
Merchandise destined for export acquires the character of foreign commerce as soon as actually started for its destination or delivered to a
carrier for transportation, Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, and while the
transportation should be continuous it need not be by or through
the initial carrier.
It is the nature of the traffic and not its accidents which determines
whether it is intrastate or foreign.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

Lumber ordered, manufactured and shipped for export, through a port
where there is no local trade, held in this case to be foreign and not
intrastate commerce although shipped on local bills of lading from a
point in Texas to Sabine, Texas, and there shipped to its final destination by a vessel not designated before arrival and after waiting
full time allowed on the wharves before shipment.
X continuous line of shipments through the same port to foreign ports,
of merchandise in which there is no local trade, shows a continuity
of transportation in which the delay and transshipment does not
make any break that deprives it of its foreign character. Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
In this case held that shipments of lumber although on local bills w re
foreign commerce and subject only to the rates dstablished by the
railroads and filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and
that the railroad company was not subject to penalties for extortion
for non-compliance with a rate established by the state law.
THE question

in the case is whother shipments of

lumber on local bills of lading from one point in Texas to
another point in Texas, destined for export under the
circumstances presently to be detailed, were intrastate or
foreign commerce.
The action was brought by defendant in error, here
called the Sabine Company, against the railroad companies (we shall so designate them unless it be necessary
to distinguish them) to recover the sum of $1,788.33
alleged to be due for overcharges in freight on thirty-three
cars of lumber shipped by the Sabine Company from
Ruliff, in the State of Texas, to Sabine, inthe same State,
the shipments moving from the initial point to Beaumont
over one of the roads and from Beaumont to Sabine over
the other. It was alleged that the legal rate applicable to
the shipments under the orders of the Railroad Commission of. Texas was 62 cents per hundred pounds and
that the railroad companies collected, over the protest of
the Sabine Company, 15 cents per hundred pounds under
tariffs filed with the Interstate Commerce Comrhission,
amounting to an illegal charge of 82 cents per hundred

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO. 113
227 U. S.

Statement of the Caae.

pounds. Recovery was also prayed for penalties for extortion under the laws of the State in the sum of $16,500.00,
the maximum penalty of $500.00 per car load, upon the
assumption that each car was a separate act of extortion,
or the sum of $13,000.00 if shipment on different days
should be adjudged to be separate acts.
The railroad companies defended on the ground that
the shipments were foreign commerce and subject to a
charge of 15 cents per hundred pounds and that such rate
had been established by them and regularly filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission in accordance with the
Act to Regulate Commerce.
The trial court charged against the defense and also
that the freight charges collected having been paid in five
separate payments, there were five distinct acts of extortion for which the Sabine Company was entitled to
recover penalties in the sum of not less than $625.00 nor
more than $2,500.00; that is, not less than $125.00 nor
more than $500.00 for each act.
The jury returned a verdict for $1,788.33 as overcharges,
with interest at 6% per annum from January 1, 1907,
and $1,785.00 penalties. Judgment was entered on the
verdict. A motion for a new trial was denied, and the
case was then taken to the Court of Civil Appeals. There
was a cross assignment of errors by the Sabine Company,
complaining of the ruling of the trial court in finding that
the company was only entitled to five penalties. It
consented that if the assignment of errors be sustained
the court could render judgment for the lowest penalty,
$125.00. The court sustained the assignment and modified the judgment of the trial court and rendered judgment for penalties in the sum of $1.25.00 for twenty-four
shipments, aggregating $3,000.00. A writ of 'error to
review the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals was
denied and the judgment thereby becoming final, this
writ of error was prosecuted.

OCTOBER TEM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

The facts were found by the Court of Civil Appeals
and are not in dispute:
"At the (late of the transactions in question the Sabine Tram Company was engaged in the manufacture

of lumber at its mill at Ruliff, a station in Texas on the
line of the Texarkana & Fort Smith Railway Company.

W. A. Powell Company, Limited, was engaged in buying
lumber for export to different points in Europe, through

the ports of Sabine and Port Arthur, both in the State
of Texas. On August 28, 1906, having made sales to
customers for future delivery in Europe of large amounts
of heavy pine lumber, for the carriage of which steamships
had in part already been chartered, to fill such contracts, W. A. Powell Co. bought of the Sabine Tram Conpany 500,000 feet of heavy pine lumber of certain dimensions, to be delivered( during the months of September
and October. The contract provided for delivery either in
the water at Orange, Tcxa% or f. o. b. cars at Sabine, Texas,
at the option of the seller. The seller exercised the option
to deliver at Sabine, a station on the line of the Texas
& New Orleans Railway.. During the months of September and October the lumber purchased was delivered
to the Texarkana & Fort Smith lailroad at Ruliff to
be by it transported to Beaumont, the terminus of its
line, and thence by connecting carrier, the Texas & New
Orleans Railway, to Sabine and delivery to the Sabine
Tram Company. There were 24 several shipments of
the lumber on as many different days, the shipments
embracing 33 cars, for which 30 separate bills of lading
were executed by the Texarkana & Fort Smith road, for
delivery at Sabine to the Sabine Tram Company, 'Notify
W. A. Powell Company, Limited.' No other contract
or arrangement was made by the Sabine Tram Company
for the carriage of the lumber except that evidence(d by
the bills of lading aforesaid. Way-bills accompanied the
shipments upon which were marked in pencil 'for export,'

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. (O.
227 U. S.

v. SABINE TRAM CO. 115

Statement of the Case.

but the Sabine Tram Company had no connection with,
or knowledge of, the making of these way-bills, which
was the act of the railway company alone. According
to the course of dealing between the parties these bills
of lading were endorsed by the Tram Company and sent.
through a bank to W. A. Powell Company, Limited,
at New Orleans, La., attached to a draft for the price of
the lumber, which being paid, the bills were delivered
to Powell Company and by them transmitted to their
agent Flanagan, at Sabine. In case of most of the shipments in question the bills of lading reached Flanagan
at Sabine before the arrival of the lumber for which they
were given. The lumber was carried under the shipping
contracts or bills of lading aforesaid, by the Texarkana &
Fort Smith road to Beaumont, and there delivered to
the Texas and New Orleans road, by which it was carried
to Sabine. Upon arrival at the station of Sabine it was,
by direction of the agent of Powell Company carried without delay about a quarter of a mile beyond the station

to the dock, where the lumber was to be unloaded. The
lumber was unloaded from the cars into water of the slip
in reach of ship's tackle, ready for loading onto ships.
The Sabine Tram Company had no connection with this
further carriage or switching of the lumber to the docks
after its arrival at the station of Sabine, but this was
done solely at the instance and under the direction of
the agent of Powell Company. The transportation from
Ruliff to Sabine was entirely within the State of Texas.

"When the lumber had been switched to the docks,
W. A. Powell Company, through their agent, presented
the bills of lading, and demanded the lumber, offering
to pay the freight charges which according to the course
of dealing between the parties they were to pay for the
Sabine Tram Company, who owed the same and which

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

it was to repay to Powell Company. The Texas & New
Orleans Company, acting for itself and the Texarkana &
Fort Smith Company, demanded the interstate Commission rate of fifteen cents per hundred pounds, having been
previously instructed by the Texarkana & Fort Smith
Conipany that ten cents per hundred pounds was its
rate from Ruliff to Beaumont. This Powell Company,
under instructions of the Sabine Tram Company, at first
refused to pay, but after communicating with the Tram
Company, finally paid the freight at this rate under
protest, in order to get possession of the lumber.
"For switching from Sabine to the docks, the rules and
orders of the Texas Railroad Commission would allow
a switching charge of $1.50 per car on domestic shipments,
and if foreign or interstate shipments, the Interstate Commerce Commission tariffs would allow a switching charge
of $2.50 per car, had not the charge for this service been
absorbed in the 15 cent rate established as aforesaid.
"Upon shipments of freight not for export, only 48
hours free time was allowed for unloading cars, after
which demurrage was charged, and if not removed from
railroad premises when unloaded, a storage charge was
made in addition. No such charge was made upon any of
the lumber involved in this suit.
"W. A. Powell. Company, Limited, regarded the shipments in controversy as export shipments, and demanded,
expected, and received, the use of terminal facilities, additional free time and other privileges accorded to shippers
of export freight under export tariffs.
"The railway company knew, when the freight charges
were collected, that the lumber was to be placed in its
slips and exported to Europe on incoming ships and the
freight was believed by the officers and agents of the railroad company' at the time the charges were collected to
constitute foreign commerce and to both permit and require the application of the rate fixed by the tariff on file

TEXAS & N. O R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO. 117
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

with the Interstate Commerce Commnission, and this rate
was applied.
"All the lumber in question was in fact unloaded from
the cars by W. A. Powell Company, Limited, into the
Texas & New Orleans Railroad Company's slips, or upon
its docks, in reach of ships' tackle and loaded into the
ships previously chartered for the purpose by W. A. Powell
Company, Limited, which steamships carried same thence
direct to Europe, where this lumber was applied upon contracts for sale in Europe made before the lumber began to
leave Ruliff, and made in fact before the lumber was purchased from the Sabine Tram Company, and before it
was sawed, and before the logs from which it was sawed
left the State of Louisiana for the Sabine Tram Company's
mill at Ruliff, in the State of Texas. One of the ships
actually waited at the docks at Sabine for the arrival of
part of this lumber which constituted a portion of its cargo.
"The ship which carried the last of this lumber from
Sabine to Europe was chartered by W. A. Powell Company,
Limited, for this purpose after these lumber shipments
began to arrive at Sabine, but before all of the shipments
had left Ruliff.
"None of this lumber remained in the slip at Sabine, or
on the docks, except for the time necessary to await the'
arrival of the particular ship which had previously been
chartered for the purpose and designated by W. A. Powell
Company as the ship which was to carry that particular
lumber from the port of Sabine to Europe.
"Any shipment of lumber intended for export to
Europe, and in fact shipped from any point in Texas, to
and through Sabine as its port of transshipment, could'be
contracted for, billed to and from Sabine, shipped, transported and handled in every particular just as was this
lumber.
"W. A. Powell Company, Limited, before this lumber
began to arrive at Sabine, took out a blanket policy of in-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

surance, protecting same against loss, from the time this
lumber should come into the possession of W. A. Powell
Company, Limited, at Sabine until its final delivery, by
W. A. Powell Company, Limited, in European ports.
"At the time this lumber was shipped it was destined
by Powell Company for export to some foreign port, but
the particular destination of any particular portion of the
lumber was not fixed, although the destination of all of
the lumber to certain foreign ports was known and fixed.
The Sabine Tram Company had no concern with the destination of the lumber after it came into the hands of
Powell Company, and had no particular knowledge
thereof. It supposed from the fact that it was known that
Powell Company were exporters of lumber, from the character of lumber which was such as was intended for export,
from the fact that Sabine was an important place at which
very little lumber was used, and from other facts and circumstances, known to millmen generally, that the lumber
was intended for export, but gave that matter no concern,
being only concerned with the delivery of the lumber to
Powell Company at Sabine station, and paying the freight
thereon. What was done by the Texas & New Orleans
Railroad Company after the airival. of the lumber at
Sabine, in the way of switching to the docks, allowance of
certain privileges allowed only to export freight, was done
at the instance and for the benefit of Powell Company,
with which the Tram Company had no concern.

"Upon the freight bills was a charge for wharfage aNainst
the Tram Company which was paid by Powell Company
as a proper charge against them and not against the Tram
Company. Export freight was entitled to seven days'
free time for unloading, and 30 days' free storage on the
docks, or in the slips, which privileges were availed of by
Powell Company in handling this lumber.

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO. 119
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"The freight bills were made out against the Sabine
Tram Company and defendants knew that Powell Company were paying the freight for the Tram Company.
"The defendants, in charging the export rate, acted.
under the advice of their attorneys, that the facts constituted the lumber an export shipment and subjected it
to the Interstate Commerce Commission rate."
On motion the court modified its findingsas follows:
"Powell & Company purchased lumber from other mills
in Texas, with which to supply its said sales in part; it
did not know when any particular car or stick of lumber
left Ruliff, into which ship or to what particular destination it would ultimately go, or on which sale it would be
applied; this not being found out until its agent, Flanagan,
inspected the invoice mailed to, and received by, him after
shipment. Upon inspection of the invoice, he determined
from the character of the lumber described whether it was
suited for one cargo or the other. The lumber remained,
after arrival, in the slips or on the dock from one to thirty
days until a ship chartered by Powell & Company arrived,
when that company selected out the lumber suited for that
cargo, and shipped it forward to the destination for which
Powell & Company intended it.
"We withdraw our finding that the rules and orders of
the Texas Railroad Commission would allow a switching
charge of $1.50 per car on domestic shipments. The only
testimony we can find on this point is that of witness
Beard, General Freight Agent of the Texas & New Orleans
Railroad Company, that 'the Texas rate for switching
these cars would have been $1.50 per car, that is, if Powell
Company owned the docks; if it was shipped to the warehouse owned by consignees or his place of business.' This
testimony does not authorize the general finding on this
point made by us.
"The freight rate due under the tariff on file with the
Interstate Commerce Commission and collected on these

'OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

227 U. S.

shipments was 15 cents per hundred pounds and under
this rate, the, services Tendered without other charge
included switching. from Sabine station to the docks,
seven days' free time,exclusive of Sundays within which to
unload the lumber from the car and thirty dlays' free storage of the lumber upon the docks at the wharves or in the
slips belonging to the Texas & New Orleans Railroad Company. W. A. Powell & Company, Ltd., availed itself of
all these services and privileges which were stipulated
for by the Interstate Commerce Commission tariff and
included in the 15 cent rate charged on export freight.
"There is not now and was not at the time these shipments moved, any local market for lumber at Sabine,
the population of which place does not exceed fifty in
number. Appellees have never done any local business
at that point. For the year 1905 there was exported
through the port of Sabine 14,667,670 feet of lumber; for
the year 1906, 39,554,000 feet. The shipments in controversy, together with other shipments of lumber to
Sabine and Sabine Pass, constitute a large and constantly recurring course of foreign commerce passing
out through the port of Sabine."
Mr. Hiram Glass and Mr. H. M. Garwood, with whom
Mr. Maxwell Vvarts and Mr. S. W. Moore were on the
brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The shipm6nts in question constituted foreign coinmerce to which the rates prescribed by the Railroad Commission of Texas did not apply. Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56; Baer Bros. Mer. Co. v. Mo.
Pac. R. Co., 13 I. C. C. Rep. 329; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517; Cosmopolitan Shipping Co. v. Hamburg Am. P. Co.,
13 I. C. C. Rep. 266; Cotton Rate Advances, 23 I. C. C.
Rep. 404; Cutting v. Navigation Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 641;
Denver &c. R. Co. v..Int..Com. Comm., 195 Fed. Rep. 968;
G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. FortGrain Co., 72 S. W. Rep. 419;

TEXAS &. N, 0. R. R., CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO. 121
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

S. C., 73 S. W. Rep. 845; G. W. T. & P. Ry. Co. v. Barry,
45 S. W. Rep. 814; General Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211;
Houston Nay. Co. v. Ins. Co., 89 Texas, 1; La. R. R. Comm.
v. St. L. S. W. R. Co., 23 . C. C. Rep. 31; La. R. R. Comm.
v. T. & P. Ry. Co., 144 Fed. Rep. 68; S. C., 184 Fed. Rep.
989; Ohio R. R. Comm. v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101;
S. C., 187 Fed. Rep. 965; Re Transportation of Sugar, 22
I. C. C. Rep. 558; Shepard v. No. Pac. R. Co., 184 Fed.
Rep. 765; Southern Pac. Terminal Co. v. Int. Com. Comm.,
219 U. S. 498; State v. G., C. & S. F. R. Co., 44 S. W. Rep.
542; State v. I. & G. N. R. Co., 71 S. W. Rep. 994; State
v. Sou. Kansas R. Co., 49 S. W. Rep. 252; Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375; T. & N. 0. R. Co. v. Sabine
Tram Co., 121 S. W. Rep. 256; T. & P. Ry. Co. v. La. R. R.
Comm. of La., 183 Fed. Rep. 1005; The Daniel Ball, 10
Wall 557; Wood-Hagenbarth Cattle Co. v. G. H. & S. A.
Ry. Co., 146 S. W. Rep. 538.
G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 97 Texas, 274; S. C.,
aff'd, 204 U. S. 403, distinguished.
Mr. George C. Greer for defendant in error:
The shipments were intrastate, and therefore the local
state rate applied; and the plaintiffs in error became liable
to pay the penalties and suffer the consequences that the
Texas laws prescribed for charging a higher rate.
The shipments in question were not a part of foreign
commerce for the following reasons:
The lumber shipped was by the only shipment cofitract,
or arrangement provided, destined for Sabine, and no
other point when it left Ruliff. Nor was this shipment
arrangement changed while the lumber was in transit.
The lumber was not committed to a common carrier
for its final and continuous voyage to a foreign point.
There was no known or fixed destination to a foreign
point; or any destination beyond Sabine within contemplation of the shipment under discussion.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The parties to each of the shipping contracts in question not only did not contract for a continuous shipment
to a foreign point, but on the contrary they did not even
intend that, by and through the agency of that shipment,
the freight should go beyond Sabine; nor did they then
provide any means or arrangements for its movement
beyond that point: that being left to an intervening third
party by a subsequent act.
The lumber was delivered to Powell Company, as it
was intended to be, at Sabine, and it took the intervention
of a new and independent shipment arrangement, or contract, to move it beyond that point. G., C. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; S. C., 97 Texas, 274; Coe v.
Erroll, 116 U. S. 524; Pa. R. R. Co. v. Knight, 192 U. S.
27; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 94;
Wabash Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 572; Houston Direct
Nay. Co. v. Insurance Co., 89 Texas, 6; The Daniel Ball,
10 Wall. 565.

After stating the facts as above, MR. JUsTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
If we may regard the essential character of the shipments we can have no hesitation in pronouncing them
to have been in interstate commerce. This conclusion
seems indeed to bg determined by the last finding of fact.
It is there declared that "the shipments in controversy,
together with other shipments of lumber to Sabine and
Sabine Pass, constitute a large and constantly recurring
course of foreign commerce passing out through the port
of Sabine."
If the shipments were foreign commerce it is hardly
necessary to make explicit the principle that the national
dominion over them was supreme; and, conversely, if the
shipments were not of that character they were subject
to the regulating power of the State.

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO. 123
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The shipments having the character of foreign commerce
when they passed "out through the port of Sabine," when
did they acquire it? We have had occasion to express at
what point of time a shipment of goods may be ascribed
to interstate or foreign commerce and decided it to be
when the goods have actually started, for their destina.
tion in another State or to a foreign country, or delivered
to a carrier for transportation. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517;
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U. S. 498, 527.
The Sabine Company, while not denying this general
test, urges a more special one as applicable to the case at
bar. The company contends that the supreme test is,
"Was the lumber when it left Ruliff actually launched on
its journey to a point in Europe; that is to say, was it
committed, by the contract or by any arrangement, between the shipper and the railroad company, or provided
for by either, to a common carrier for transportation on
its continuous final journey to a destination beyond Sabine, Texas?" Answering this question in the negative,'
it is contended that the contract of shipment did not contemplate, provide for, or even intend that the freight
should go beyond Sabine "through the agency of that
shipment." Nor, it is further contended, were there any
means or arrangements for its movement beyond that
point, that being left to an intervening third party and a
subsequent act after it was delivered to Powell Company,
as it was intended to be, at Sabine; and "it took the intervention of a new and independent shipment, arrangement,
or contract, to move it beyond that point." Fortifying
the contentions, it is said that the existence of the conditions expressed is made the test of foreign commerce by
the Interstate Commerce Law, its first section reading:
"That the provisions of this Act shall apply . . . to
the transportation- . . . of property -hipped from one
place in the. United States to a foreign country and carried

OCTOBER. TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

from such place to a point of transshipment, or shipped
from a port of entry either in the United States or any
adjacent foreign country." Freight is never shipped, in
the sense of the law, it is further contended, until it is
launched upon its final continuous trip to a foreign country.: These contentions would seem to be tantamount to
saying that a local bill of lading determined the character
of tie commerce, but counsel especially exclude this conclusion. They admit " that there may be some additional
or outside arrangement for a continuous final movement
to a destination beyond that named in the bill of lading, or
the bill of lading may itself note a forward continuous
movement beyond the destination named." It appears,
therefore, that continuity of movement is the chief insistence and test of the Sabine Company, not necessarily,
it is explained, in point of time or free of delays, but "an
unbroken movement, proceeding under the original arrangement, or shipment."
The elements of the contentions are somewhat difficult
to estimate. So far as they depend upon the character of
a bill of lading and that it had not provision for carriage beyond the local destination, they are answered by
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U. S.498, and Ohio Railroad Commission
v. Worthington, 225 U.S. 101. They are also answered by
the following Texas cases: State v. Southern Kan. Ry. Co.,
49 S. W. Rep. 252; State v. International& Gt. Nor. R. Co.,
71 S.W. Rep. 994; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Fort Grain
Co., 72 S.W. Rep. 419; Same v. Same, 73 S.W. Rep. 845.
That there must be continuity of movement we may
concede, and to a foreign destination intended at the time
of the shipment. Indeed, all of the elements of the contentions of the Sabine Company are well illustrated by
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission and Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, supra.

TEXAS & N.,O. R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO. 125
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In the former case we cited Coe v. Errol and decided
that its principle was not defeated by the fact that the
shipments were not made on through bills of lading.
The case is instructive as well in its facts as in its principle.
The product involved was cotton seed cake and cotton
seed meal accumulated at the wharves of the Terminal
eompany at Galveston and the cake there manufactured
into meal. The cake and meal were purchased in Texas
and neighboring States, but chiefly in Texas, and shipped
on bills of lading and way-bills to the purchaser and manufacturer, showing the point of destination to be Galveston.
The purchases were made for export, there being no con-sumption of the products at Galveston. The sales to
foreign countries were sometimes for immediate and some-,
times for future delivery, irrespective of whether the
product was on hand at Galveston. At times it was on
hand. At other times orders had to be filled from cake
purchased in the interior and then in transit, which, upon
reaching Galveston, had to be ground into meal and
sacked, and for the meal thus ground and sacked or thus
bought ships' bills of lading were made. It was contended
that the transit of the cake and meal absolutely ended at
Galveston, that point being their final point of concentration and manufacture, the cake being there manufactured
and sacked for export. The contention was rejected by
the application of the principle which we have expressed.
The points of resemblance between that case and the one
at bar-are obvious. Are the points of difference essential?
In both cases the article was intended for export but had
no definite foreign destination, nor had it been ."committed to a common carrier for its final continuous voyage to a foreign point." In the Terminal Case the manufacturer and exporter of the products purchased them at
interior points and had them shipped to himself at Galveston. In the pres6nt case the Sabine Company was fhe
manufacturer and shipped them to the Powell Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

the purchaser, who paid the freight charges for the Sabine
Company. Upon the arrival of the lumber at Sabine it
was carried without delay beyond and unloaded into the
water in reach of ship's tackle. The continuity of the
shipment was not as much broken as in the cited case.
There, there was a delay for manufacturing; here, there was
only such delay as was incident to transshipment from rail
carriage to water carriage and to the nature of the traffic.
It is said, however, that the Sabine Company had no connection with the lumber after its arrival at Sabine and had
no concern with its destination after it came into the hands
of Powell Company and had no particular knowledge
thereof. Like circumstances undoubtedly existed in
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission. It did not prevail there and cannot prevail here.
The determining circumstance is that the shipment of the
lumber to Sabine was but a step in its transportation to
its real and ultimate destination in foreign countries. In
other words, the essential character of the commerce, not
its mere accidents, should determine. It was to supply
the demand of foreign countries that the lumber was
purchased, manufactured and shipped, and to give it a
various character by the steps in its transportation would
be extiemely artificial. Once admit the principle and
means will be afforded of evading the national control of
foreign commerce from points in the interior of a State.
There must be transshipment at the seaboard, and if that
may be made the point of ultimate destination by the
device of separate bills 6f lading the commerce will be
given local character, though it be essentially foreign.
That it is the nature of the traffic and not its accidents
which determines its character is illustrated by Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, supra. A rate of 70
cents a ton was imposed by the Commission on what was
called "Lake-cargo coal" from a coal field in eastern Ohio
to the ports of Huron and Cleveland, Ohio, on Lake Erie,

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. $ABIN
227 U. S.

1

TRAM CO. 127

Opinion of the Court.

for carriage thence by lake vessels. The shipper transported the coal ordinarily upon bills of lading to himself,
or to another for himself, at Huron, and it appeared that
the coal might be accumulated in large quantities at
Huron and only taken out of the accumulated lots from
time to time for the purpose of shipment out of the State.
The rate of 70 cents, however, covered not only the transportation of the coal to Huron, but placing it on the vessels and trimming it for its interstate journey. It was
held that its transportation to Huron was an interstate
carriage.
Much stress was laid in the argument upon the fact
that the coal was billed only to Huron. Replying to the
contention the court said that the billing of the coal was
not necessarily determinative, citing Southern Pacific
Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, supra.
Gulf, Colorado & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403,
is urged as sustaining all of the contentions of the Sabine
Company, and the case was considered so apposite and
controlling that the Supreme Court of the State rested
its decision entirely upon it. It demands, therefore, a
careful review. Its facts were as follows: The Hardin
Grain Company, doing business in Kansas City, Missouri,
having made a contract with parties at Goldthwaite,
Texas, for the delivery of two car loads of corn at that
place, in order to comply with their undertaking, contracted to purchase of the Harroun Commission Company,
who were also doing business at Kansas City, Missouri,
and had an agent at Texarkana, Texas, the same quanity
of corn, to be delivered at the latter point. The corn with
which the Harroun Commission Company proposed to
fulfill their contract was shipped from South Dakota to
Texarkana, Texas, through Kansas City, Missouri. It
was delivered at Texarkana, Texas, in accordance with
the agreement, to the Hardin Grain Company, who thereupon shipped.it in the same cars, without breaking bulk,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court

227 U. S.

over the Texas & Pacific Railway and its connecting lines
to Goldthwaite, Texas. Commenting on these facts the
Supreme Court of the State, when the case was before
it, said:. "Since the contract of the Hardin Grain Company
with the initial carrier at Texarkana was a contract for
transportation wholly within this State, the question
resolves itself into the inquiry whether the facts just
stated changed the character of the transportation and
made the carriage from Texarkana to Goldthwaite a part
of an interstate shipment." The court decided that the
carriage from Texarkana to Goldthwaite "should be
deemed independent of and wholly disconnected from its
transportation to Texas from South Dakota, or Kansas
City." In other words, the court divided the commerce
into two parts, one, the carriage from South Dakota and
Kansas City to Texarkana, terminating by. the delivery
of the corn there to the Hardin Grain Company; and, one,
which the court regarded as independent of and disconnected from the other, from Texarkana to Goldthwaite
upon a bill of lading by which the railway company acknowledged the receipt from the Hardin Grain Company
at Texarkana with orders to deliver to Saylor & Burnett
at Galveston, Texas. This carriage, being wholly within
the State, was pronounced to be a local shipment.
This court affirmed the judgment and decided that the
contract between the Hardin Grain Company and the
Harroun Commission Company was completed in accordance with its terms when the corn was delivered to
the Hardin Company at Texarkana. - "Then and not till
then," it was said, "did the Hardin Company have
full title to and control of the corn, and that was after
the first contract of transportation had been completed."
Then, and not till then, we may say, did the Hardin
Company acquire the means of fulfilling its contract
with Saylor & Burnett; and then, and not till then, did
it start to fulfill its contract with Saylor & Burnett.

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO. 129
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This was the determining circumstance both in the
Supreme Court of Texas and in this court. It caused
the Supreme Court of Texas to decide that the carriage
of the corn from Texarkana to Goldthwaite should be
deemed independent of and wholly disconnected from
its transportation to Texas from South Dakota, or Kansas
City. It caused this court, in effect, to adopt that ruling
and to consider the corn not at any time to be that of
Saylor & Burnett until it was started from Texarkana to
Goldthwaite. It appeared that the corn remained five
days in Texarkana, and, considering the bearing of this
fact and the other facts, it was said: "The Hardin Company was under no obligation to ship it further. It could
in any other way it saw fit have provided corn for delivery to Saylor & Burnett, and unloaded and used that
car of corn in Texarkana. It must be remembered that
the corn was not paid for by the Hardin Grain Company
until its receipt in Texarkana. It was paid for on receipt and delivery to the Hardin Grain Company. Then,
and not till then, did the Hardin Grain Company have
full title to and control of the corn, and that was after
the first contract of transportation had been completed."
It is manifest that these facts were the determining
ones, and the history of the corn prior to its arrival at
Texarkana was put aside as irrelevant and the controlling
fact decided to be that corn belonging to the Hardin
Grain Company was shipped from Texarkana to Goldthwaite, a strictly local shipment. This was the view taken
of the case in Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington,
supra. It was there urged to sustain the contention that

the manner of billing was controlling of the character
of the commerce. The contention was rejected, and, distinguishing the case and speaking of its facts, the court
said (p. 109): "The facts showed that the corn was
carried upon a bill of lading from Hudson [South Dakota]
to Texarkana, and that afterwards, some five days later,
VOL. ccxxvII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Couirt.

227 U. S.

it was shipped from Texarkana to Goldthwaite, both
points in the State of Texas. This was held to be an
intrastate shipment unaffected by the fact that the shipper
intended to reship the corn from Texarkana to Goldthwaite, for, as this court held, the corn had been carried
to Texarkana upon a contract for interstate shipment,
and the reshipment five days later upon a new contract
was an independent intrastate shipment." Distinguishing
the case, it was said (p. 109): "It is evident from this
staternent of facts that the case is quite different from
the one under consideration. There a new and independent contract for intrastate shipment was made, the
interstate transportation having been completely performed ..
The facts in the case at bar are different. The lumber
was ordered, manufactured and shipped for export.
And we say shipped, for we regard it of no consequence
that the Sabine Company had no concern or connection
with it after it reached Sabine. Its relation to che shipinent was a perfectly natural one and did not change
the relation of the Powell Company to it and make the
lumber other than lumber purchased at Ruliff and started
from there in transportation to a foreign destination.
The findings are explicit and ciretunstantial as to this.
And the shipment was not an isolated one but typical
of many others, which constituted a commerce amounting
in the year 1905 to 14,667,670 feet of lumber and in the
year 1906, 39,554,000 feet.' Nor was there a break, in
the sense of the-fiterstate Commerce law and the cited
cases, in the continuity of the transportation of the
lumber to foreign countries by the delay and its transshipment at Sabine. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S.
375. Nor, as we have seen, did the absence of a definite
foreign destination alter the character of the shipments.
Judgment reversed and case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

