OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

summed up the matter by saying (pp. 482, 483): "It
could serve no such purpose to appellees as is contemplated by the regulations of the District authorizing the
construction of party walls. . . . Appellees can derive no such benefit from it as the servient owner is entitled to receive as compensation for the taking and occupation of his land. It constitutes a nuisance rather than
a benefit."
We find no reason for disturbing the decree.
Affirmed..

SVOR v. MORRIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 756.

Submitted January C),1913.- Decided February 24, 1913.

One who settled on land not, at the time open to entry but which became
open does not-have to go through the idle ceremony of vacating and
settling upon it anew.
Where the first selection of lieu lands is rejected as irregular, the land
is open during the interval before a new and regular selection is filed,
and the homestead right of one who had previously settled thereon
in good faith attaches and is superior to that under the new selection.
As between conflicting claims to public lands, the one whose initiation
is first in time, if adequately followed up, is to be deemed first in
right.
Under the act of May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 141 and ยง 2265, Rev. Stat., the
rights of a settler who fails to assert his claim within three months
of settlement are not inexorably extinguished but only awarded to
the next settler in order of time who does assert his claim and complies with the law, and advantage of this statute cannot be taken
by a railroad company selecting land which is withdrawn from selection by having already been settled on. Hastings & Dakota Ry. Co.
v. Arnold, 26 L. D. 538, approved.
Title acquired by a railway company or its assignee of lieu lands, im-

SVOR v. MORRIS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

properly selected beeause not open by reason of settlement thereon,
is held in trust for the settler by such assignee or his grankee who
took with notice.
118 Minnesota, 344, reversed.
THE facts, which involve questions of priority of right
between a homestead settler and a railway company
selecting lieu lands under a grant, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. A. Fosnes for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Owen Morris for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
4th~court.
This case presents a controversy over one of the quarters
of an odd-numbered section within the indemnity limits
of the railroad land grant of July 4, 1866, to the State of
Minnesota, which the State transferred to the Hastings
and Dakota Railway Company. 14 Stat. 87, c. 168. The
trial court gave judgment for the plaintiff, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 118 Minnesota, 344, and the defendant prosecutes this writ of
error.
The facts material to the controversy are these: In
1883, after the completion of the road, the railway company filed in the local land office an indemnity selection
of the tract in controversy, but neglected to comply with
an existing regulation requiring that the selection be
accompanied by a designation of the loss in the piace
limits in lieu of which the selection was made. Report
('or'" G. L. 0. 1879, p. 128, rule V. The selection was
rejected by the local officers, but remained pending on
successive appeals to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office and the Seretzr'v of the Interior until Octobe11 2:1, ISM, whcii it w: liWihly rejected by the latter

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. 9.

because of that irregularity. Six days later Russell Sage,
trustee, to whom the rights of the railway company under
the land grant had then been assigned, filed another indemnity selection of the same tract, accompanied by a
proper designation of the loss in lieu of which the selection
was made, and in that connection claimed and alleged that
the tract was then vacant and unappropriated. March 29,
1897, this selection was approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, and the tract was certified under the grant, the
certification being treated as the equivalent of a patent.
14 Stat. 97, c. 183. The plaintiff subsequently acquired
the right and title of Sage, trustee, to the tract, but did so
with full notice and knowledge of the occupancy and
claim of the defendant.
In 1885 the defendant applied at the local land office to
make a homestead entry of the tract and the application
was denied, the circumstances being such that it could not
be allowed. In 1888, while the selection of 1883 was
pending, he settled upon the tract with the purpose of
acquiring the title by compliance with the homestead law,
and continuously thereafter resided upon the tract, occupied, improved and cultivated it, all the time asserting
a claim under that law. The improvements which he
made exceeded $2,000 in value and the area which he reduced to cultivation exceeded 100 acres. Being continuous, his occupancy and claim covered the interim between
the final rejection of the first indemnity selection and the
filing of the second one, but he did not again apply at the
local office to make a homestead entry until 1904, which
was after the tract had passed beyond the jurisdiction of
the Land Department by the certification under the land
grant. At the time of his settlement, and continuously
thereafter, he possessed all the qualifications requisite to
acquire the title as a homestead claimant.
The plaintiff's title receives no support from the indemnity selection of 1883, for, as has been seen, it did not

SVOR v. MORRIS.
227 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

conform to the existing regulations in an essential particular and was finally rejected, October 23, 1891, for that
reason. And to avoid an extended statement and discussion respecting an indemnity withdrawal made in 1868
and still another claim to the tract, both of which were
t~rminatcd on or shortly before October 23, 1891 (see
H. R. Ex. Doe. 246, 50th Cong., 1st Sess.; 26 Stat. 496,
c. 1040, ยง 4, St. Paul & Sioux City R. R. Co., 12 L. D. 541;
Creswell Mining Co. v. Johnson, 13 L. D. 440), it will be
assumed, without so deciding, that the defendant's claim
receives no support from what he did anterior to that date.
Following the final rejection of the first selection there
was an interval of six days in which the land was not only
free from any claim under the land grant but open to
settlement under the homestead law. So, apart from the
defendant's earlier efforts, there can be no doubt that by
his residence and occupancy during that interval he
initiated and acquired a homestead right. He was not
disqualified by reason of what he had done before, and, of
course, it was not necessary that he should go through the
idle ceremony of vacating the land and then settling upon
it anew. This is the view uniformly applied in the Land
Department. Central Pacific RailroadCo. v. Doll, 8 L. D.
355; La Bar v. Northern Pacific Railroad Co., 17 L. D.
406; Vandeburg v. Hastings & Dakota Railway Co., 26
L. D. 390. See also Moss v. Dowman, 176 U. S. 413. The
second selection came after this homestead right had
attached and therefore was subordinate to it. In its facts
the case is like Sjoli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, and Osborn
v. Froyseth, 216 U. S. 571, and unlike Weyerhaeuser v.
Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380, and Northern Pacific Railway Co. v.
Wass, 219 U. S. 426, and yet is within the principle
recognized and enforced in each, viz., that as between conflicting claims to public lands the one whose initiation is
first in time, if adequately followed up, is to be deemed
first in right. The Sjoli and Osborn cases involved con-

O(TOBER TERM. 1912.
Opinion of the Court,.

227 U. S.

filets between claims initiated by homestead settlement
and claims resting upon railroad indemnity selections
subsequently filed, and because the former were first in
time they were held to be superior in right. 'The Weyerhaeuser and lWass cases presented conflicts between railroad indemnity selections and claims initiated, one by an
application to purchase under the Timber and Stone Act
and the other by a homestead settlement, while the seleelions were pending, and it was held that the selections gave
the better right because they were first in time.
That in point of residence, improvements and cultivation the defendant fully complied with the homestead law
is not questioned, but it is contended that he lost, his claim
by not asserting it in due time at the local land office. It is
true that theactf of May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 141, c. 89, ยง 3, in
connection with Rev. Stat., ยง 2265, fixed three months from,
the date of settlement as the tinle within which the 'laifni
should be asserted at the local land oflice, and that the
defendant (lid not coniorin to this requirement; but that
is not a matter of which adva tuge caln be taken by one
who stands in the shoe, of the railhv- v company, as does
the plaintiff. The statute does not (oitnlplate that si(ch
a default shall inexoral'v extingluish the settler's clailn,
but only that, the land shall be "'awarded to the next
settler in the order of time" who do es so lssert his clail
and otherwise complies with the law. A\s was said by this
court in Johnsot v. Tiw./lCy, 13 Wall. 72, 9:()
We think
that Congress iitetded to provide for lthe pr,)teetioli of the
first settler by giving him three, wouths to make his deela ration, and for all other settlers by saving iiithis is not done
within three months any one else who hs ettledt on it
within that time, or at any time before the first settler
makes his declaration, shall have the better right." The
question has been re)eatedly considerel by the Secretary
of the Interior in con.nectioln vithI r.lr'oad inderiiiiit V
selections of linds covered by exist itig hIi,.,mses(t
settle-

SVOR v. MORRIS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ments which had not been asserted at the local office
within the time prescribed, and his ruling has been that
"A failure to file an application to enter lands within three
months after settlement forfeits the claim to the next
settler in order of time, but such default is not one that,
can be taken advantage of by a railway company."

Alissouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Co. v. Troxel, 17 L. D.
122, 124; Hastings & Dakota Railway Co. v. Arnold, 26
L. D. 538, 540. We regard that ruling as resting upon a
proper conception of the statute.
Had the real facts been disclosed to the Land Department, viz., that the defendant was residing upon and
occupying the land in virtue of a lawful homestead settlement antedating the second indemnity selection, it would
have been the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to disapprove the selection, and no doubt he would have done
so. But the real facts were not disclosed. On the contrary, it was claimed and alleged by the agent who acted
for Sage, trustee, in making the selection, that the land
was then vacant and unappropriated, and on that representation the Secretary's approval was given. Thus, the title
was wrongfully obtained by one who was not entitled to it,
and another who had earned the right to receive it was
prevented from obtaining it when subsequently he came
to assert his right before the Land Department. Whatever may have been the cause of the defendant's delay
in so asserting his right, there is no suggestion that he
either knew of or acquiesced in the representation that
the land was vacant and unappropriated, or that he was
in any wise apprised of the filing, pendency or approval
of the second selection until after the land had passed out
of the jurisdiction of the Land Department by the certification under the land grant. In short, the proceeding
was essentially ex parte, and he was neither heard nor
given an opportunity to be heard.In these circumstances we think it is a necessary convoi. ccxxvm-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

clusion: that the title acquired by Sage; trustee, was held
by him in trust for the defendant, and that it is now held
upon a like trust by the plaintiff, who took with full notice
and knowledge of the defendant's occupancy and claim.

Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276, 291; Widdicombe v.
Childers, 124 U. S. 400, 405; Duluth & Iron Range Railroad
Co. v. Roy, 173 U. S. 587.
As the state courts proceeded upon the theory that the

second selection gave the better right notwithstanding the
defendant's claim was first in timne, the judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded for ,further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

ROSS v. STEWART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 140. Submitted January 23, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Congress has power to invest a townsite commission with power to
determine contests between rival claimants to lots in a townsite in
Indian lands acquired and thrown open to settlement.
The acts providing for designation, surveying and platting townsites
in the Cherokee lands and disposing thereof plainly show the intent
of Congress to commit the appraisal and disposal of the lots to the
commission created by the acts, subject to supervision by the Secrc
tary of the Interior.
'lhe provisions of the acts do not contemplate the determination of
conflicting possessory claims without inquiry into the merits.
All reasonable presumptions must be indulged in support of the action
of administrative officers to whom the law entrusts proceedings
determining priority of claims; and in the absence of material error
of law, or of misrepresentation or fraud practiced on or by them,
their action should stand approved by the court.

