WELLS, VARGO & CO. v. NEIMAN-MARCUS CO.
227 U: S.

469

Syllabus.

"That unless the party setting up the unconstitutionality of the state law belongs to the class for whose sake the
constitutional protection is given, or the class primari ly
protected, this court does not listen to his objections,
and will not go into imaginary cases, notwithstanding the
seeming logic of the position that it must do so, because
if for any reason, or as against any class embraced, the law
is unconstitutional, it is void as to all. Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, 311; Clark v. Kansas City, 176 U. S,
114, 118; Lampa&as v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276, 283, 284; Cronin
v. Adams, 192 U. S. 108, 114. If the law is valid when
confined to the class of the party before the court, it
may be more or less of a speculation to inquire what
exceptions the state court may read into general words, or
how far it may sustain an act that partially fails."
This principle has been applied in many cases, among
them: Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 60; The Winnebago,
205 U. S. 354, 360; Citizens Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S.
443; Southern Railway v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 271.
The result is that the decree must be reversed and the
case remanded with direction to dismiss the bill.

WELLS, FARGO & COMPANY v. NEIMANMARCUS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 29.

Argued November 5, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Whether void or not, under the state statute, a provision in an express
receipt limiting recovery in case of loss or negligence, is valid as to
interstate shipments under the Carmack Amendment if fairily made
for i he purpose'of applying to the shipment i he lower f two rat'a

O.CTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

227' U. S.

based upon valuation. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S.
491.
A statement filed in the case that a clause in a contract is void under a
statute is a concession for purposes of argument as to a matter of
law and cannot conclude anyone, as it does not opeiate to withdraw
the contract from the case nor its validity from the court's consideration.

The reasonable and just consequence of misrepresentation of value
to get the lower rate of shipment is not that the shipper recover
nothing but that he is estopped- to recover more than the value
declared to obtain the rate.
A shipper by accepting a receipt reciting that the carrier is not to be
held liable beyond a specified amount at which the property is
thereby -valuedunless a different value than that is so stated, and
thus obtaining a lower rate than that which he would have been
obliged to pay had he declared the full value, declares and represents
that-the value does not exceed the specified amount.
There is no substantial distinction between a value stated on inquiry
and one agreed upon or declared voluntarily.

THE facts, which involve the liability of an express
company on goods of undeclared

value and also the

construction of the Carmack Amendment, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Pierson, with whom Mr. William W
Green was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The case was tried below on the theory of a breach of

contract and must therefore be determined in this court on
the same theory. Having elected to try the case on one

theory, a litigant is restricted to the same theory on appeal.

Tex. &.Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.

The contract upon which plaintiff sued and was permitted to recover involved a violation of the Elkins Act.
The contract therefore was invalid and no action can be

maintained for a breach thereof.
The shipper, not the carrier, was responsible for this
(iscrimination.
The express receipt was filled out and
tendered for' signature by the shipper, who must be ,eemed

WELLS, FARGO & CO. v. NEIMAN-MARCUS CO. 471
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

t9 have been acting as plaintiff's agent in the matter.
McMillan v. Railroad Co., 16 Michigan, 79; Chicago &
Alton R. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155; Armour Packing
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 57, 72; Ellison v. Adams
Express Co., 245 Illinois, 410.
Nothing in the case of PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Hughes,
191 U. S. 477, is inconsistent with this position. In that
case no Federal question was presented. The present
case, of course, does present a Federal question: the construction and effect of the Elkins Act.
Mr. Rhodes S. Baker, for defendant in error, submitted:
It being conceded that the limitation of liability contained in the receipt is void as such, and it appearing that
no contract violative of the Interstate Commerce Act was
ever made, the shipper's right to compensation for the
value of the lost merchandise is unobstructed.
In this case no Federal question is fairly comprehended,
either in the cause of action of the defendant in error or
the grounds of defense of the plaintiff in error.
The judgment does not require the plaintiff in error to
pay a greater amount than the value of the merchandise.
The contrary appears from the evidence.
The judgment does not require the plaintiff in error to
pay for the merchandise a greater amount than its value,
as fixed by the rate of transportation assessed against it.
No rate of transportation was assessed against this merchandise by the defendant in error. It is true that the
rate of transportation is in a sense dependent upon declared valuations, but in this case no valuation was declared nor inquiry even made, and it may be fairly presumed that the carrier would have done its legal and
voluntarily assumed duty at destination upon delivery of
the merchandise to the consignee. It assessed no rate of
transportation and placed no valuation upon the receipt,
the package of merchandise, or the way bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argunicnt for Defendant in Error.

227 U. S.

The proof does not show that the defendant in error was
required by the judgment to transport the merchandise
in question at an illegal rate of transportation.
The judgment does not require the defendant in error
to violate any acts of Congress regulating interstate commerce.
On the contrary, it enforces the statutory duty of the
carrier to make settlement with the shipper upon a basis
of actual values, without discount or immunity under the
void and illegal exemptions in the receipt given to the
shipper. See Pennsylvania Railroad Company v. Hughes,
191 U. S. 477; Kissenger v. Fitzgerald, 152 Nor. Car. 247.
Under Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242, the
lawful rate is read into the contract in question as effectively as if printed therein.
The whole defense in this case depends upon the ability
of the carrier to establish fraud on the part of the shipper.
If fraud were shown it would be a defense, regardless of
the Federal law. Nothing is added to the efficacy of the
defense by attributing its malue to Federal law. The courts
of Texas give full recognition in proper case to the defense of fraud and the consequent estoppel that results
therefrom.
The issue of fraud does not present a Federal question,
and moreover, as a debatable issue here, has been foreclosed by the decision adverse to it in the state courts empowered to resolve issues of fact. Southern Pacific Co.
v. Anderson, 63 S. W. Rep. 102; Int. & G. N. R. R. Co.
v. Van deVenter, 107 S. W. Rep. 560; Pacific Exp' Co. v.
Hertzberg, 42 S. W. Rep. 795; Head v. Pacific Exp. Co.,
126 S. W. Rep. 683; Bynumv. Preston, 69 Texas, 291;
St. L. S. W. Ry Co. v. McIntyre, 82 S. W. Rep. 346.
Confessedly there has been no false representation-no
unlawful concealmelnt. Neither the law nor the rules of
the express company imposed on the shipping clerk the
duty to volunteer information about the value of the ship-

WELLS, FARGO & CO. r. NEIMAN-MARCUS CO.
227 U. S.

473

Opinion of the Court.

ment in question when he was making no bargain as to

rates and when the contents of the package of merchandise
were not concealed from the carrier by some artifice calculated to induce it to make no inquiry.
It does not appear that the express company was misled
into believing the property to 'be of not exceeding the
minimum valuation. Nothing appears in the evidence
indicating its purpose not to pursue the inquiry at destination. It fails to appear that the carrier did, in fact, act
upon any such misrepresentation, or that it did, in fact,
sustain any injury.
MR.JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

Action by a shipper against an express company to recover for the loss of a package of. furs shipped from New
York to Dallas, Texas, and never delivered.
The receipt executed by the express company contained
a clause exempting it from loss or damage not due to its
fraud or negligence, and providing that it should in no
event be held liable "beyond the sum of fifty dollars, at
not exceeding which sum said property is hereby valued,
unless a different value is hereinabove stated." No different value was declared. The package weighed seven
pounds. It contained furs enclosed in a paper box which
was securely wrapped and tied with cord.
The defendants in error were permitted to prove that
the actual value of the furs was four hundred dollars.
That the consignors kept in their shipping office an express
book containing blank express receipts. One of these was
filled out in their office by their shipping clerk. When the
wagon of the express company called at the office, the
agent signed the receipt, and the package was delivered to
him by a boy assistant to the shipping clerk. No guestions were asked as to the value and no value declared
other than as s'iown in the receipt. It was also shown

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

that the clerk who wrapped and marked the package did
not know the value and had no actual knowledge of the
graduated rates of the express company, and that he had
had nothing to do with the selling or buying of the furs.
One of the consignors, Abraham Jacobson, sold the furs
personally and testified as to their vulie. He testified
that he knew that if the value had been declared to be
four hundred dollars, the express rate would have been
higher, and that if no value was especially declared, they
would be carried under the express rate applying to a
package valued at not in excess of fifty dollars.
There was put in evidence the table of graduated rate
sheets on file with the Interstate Commerce Commission.
These showed'that the rates were graduated by weight and
value. The rate from New York to Dallas upon a package
weighing between five and seven pounds and valued at
not over fifty dollars was one dollar, which was the rate
applicable to and charged upon the package in question.
If the value had been declared at four hundred dollars,
the 'rate ,would have been increased fifteen cents for each
additional hundred dollars of value.
One of the provisions of the filed tariff sheets contained
this direction, "Always ask shipper to declare the value,
and when given insert it in the receipt, mark it on the
pakage. and enter amount on way bill. If shipper refuses
to state value, write or stamp on the receipt, 'value asked
and not given.'"'
A jury was waived, and there was a judgment for the
plaintiff below for the full value of the package.
The contract of shipment, including the clause for the
limitation of any recovery in case of loss or negligence, is
substantially like the contract upheld in Adams Express
Company v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491. To take this case
without the controlling influence of that case counsel
s,-y that no 'Federal question based up on the validity of
the shipping contract was raised in the state court, and

WELLS, FARGO & CO. v. NEIMAN-MARCUS 00. 475
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for this they rely upon a paragraph in the brief of one of
the counsel for the express company filed in the court
below in which it is said: "For the purpose of this case,
we are willing to concede that said provision in so far as
it limits the liabilities of the company for $50.00, is void
both under a statute of the State of Texas," and under
the provisions of the Carmar- Amendment of ยง 20 of
the act to regulate commerce of June 29, 1906.
That such a clause may be void under the legislation of
Texas may be true. But that it is valid, if fairly made for
the purpose of applying to the shipment the lower of the
two rates based upon valuation, is not now an open question. Adams Express Company v. Croninger,cited above.
That case had not been decided when this case was
heard in the state court, and there was much diversity of
opinion as to the meaning of that section when counsel
made the concession. At most it was a concession for
purposes of argument as to a matter of law and could not,
conclude any one, since it did not operate to withdraw the
shipping contract from the case, nor its validity from the
court's consideration.
It is undoubtedly true that the principal defense upon
which the defendants seem to have relied in the state court
was, that by intentional misrepresentation the plaintiff
had obtained a rate based upon a valuation of fifty dollars, and that they had thereby secured transportation of
the property, for which they sue, at a less rate than that
named in the tariffs published and filed by the carrier as
required by the acts of Congress regulating commerce,
and thus obtained an illegal advantage and caused an
illegal discrimination forbidden by the acts referred to.
But this defense rested upon the misrepresentation as to
real value declared only .in the carrier's receipt, and, therefore, involved the consequence of the undervaluation by
which an unlawful rate had been obtained. The question
at last would be shall the shipper or owner recover nothing

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

because of that misrepresentation, or only the valuation
declared to obtain the rate upon which the goods were
carried? The latter would seem to be the more reasonable and just consequence of, the estoppel. The ground
upon which the validity of a limitation upon a recovery
for loss or damage due to negligence depends is that of
estoppel.
But it is a mistake to assume that the company did not
rely upon the stipulation limiting a recovery in case of
loss or damage to the value agreed upon or declared. In
the twelfth paragraph of its answer it asserted that if
liable at all its liability "should be limited to $50.00, as
provided in said contract of 'shipment, which $50.00 has
heretofore been tendered to plaintiff." By its eighth and
ninth assignments of error in the Court of Civil Appeals
error was assigned upon the refusal of the trial court to
hold that the defendants in error were estopped, by the
valuation declared, to recover any amount in excess of
$50.00. The Court of Civil Appeals, while not in express
terms denying the validity of such a stipulation limiting
recovery, did so in effect, for it seems to have placed its
judgment of affirmance upon the rule requiring the company's agents to ask the shipper to declare the value and
if no value is stated that the package should be stamped
"value asked and not given." This was not done. Therefore, said the court, "the company's agent failed to perform a plain duty .
.
and it is in no attitude to
complain that the shipper did not state the value"
But the shipper in accepting the receipt reciting that
the company "is not to be held liable beyond the sum of.
fifty dollars, at not exceeding which sum said property is
hereby valued, unless a different value is hereinabove
stated," did declare and represent that the value did not
exceed that sum, and did obtain a rate which he is to be
assumed to have known was based upon that.. as the
actual value. There is no substantial distinction between

BRADLEY v. RICHMIOND.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

a value stated upon inquiry, and one agreed upon or
declared voluntarily. The rate of freight was based upon
the valuation thus fixed, and the liability should not
exceed the amount so made the rate basis. Hart v. Pemnsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S. 331, 338.
Judgment reversed and remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

BRADLEY v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
ERROR TO THE SUPRFME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE.STATE
OF VIRGINIA.

No. 38.

Submitted November 6,1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

A privilege tax may perform the double function of regulating the
business under .the police power and of producing revenue if authorized by the law of the State.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, neither the State nor its municipality can confer or exercise arbitrary power in classifying for
purpose of regulating, licensing or taxing.
Whether the power of classifying be exercised by the State directly
or by the municipality, it is the exercise of legislative discretion and
subject to the guarantee of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The power of the State to determine what occupations shall be subject
to license and tax is subject to no limitations save those of the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits the State from
delegating this power. (hndlivg v. Chicago, 177 U. S.183.
An ordinance imposing a license on business, dividing it into several
classes and giving the power of classification to a committee of the
council with power of review by the entire council, is not an arbitrar
exercise of power within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment, and so held as to the banker's license tax of Richmond, Virginia.
An ordinance imposing license taxes and authorizing classification
which provides for a review will not be held unconstitutional because

