BENNETT v. UNITED STAT ES.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

Was or was not it a condition that would necessarily and
naturally lead to a life of debauchery of a carnal nature
relating to sexual intercourse between man and woman?"
The plan and place justified the instructions. The plan
might have succeeded if the coarse precipitancy of one of
the defendants and the ribaldry of the habitues of the
place had not shocked the modesty of the girl.
And
granting the testimony to be true, of which the jury was
the judge, the employment to which she was enticed was
an efficient school of debauchery of the special immorality
which defendants 'contend the statute was designed to
cover.
Judgment affirmed.

BENNETT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH

No. 603.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 8, 1913.--Decided February 24, 1913.

Hoke v. United States, ante, p'30,8, followed to effect that the White
Slavel'raffic Act of June 25, 1910, is constitutional.
A variancein names cannot prejudice defendant if the allegation in the
indictment and the proof so correspond that the defendant is informed of- the charge and protected against another prosecution
for the sa me offense.
Ylriances as to the name of the woman transported or in the place
where the tickets were procured or as to the number transported, between the indictment and proof of offenses under the White Slave
Traffic Act held not to have prejudiced the defendants and not to
be reversible error.
Instructions to the jury that there is testimony tending to corroborate
the testimony of a witness charged with being an accomplice and
that it is for the jury to consider the force and value of the testimony
and the weight to be given to it, is sufficient to properly leave the
matter with the jury.
194 Fed. Rep. 630, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and
construction of the White Slave Act and the validity of
an indictment and conviction thereunder, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Max Levy for plaintiff in error:
The only authority that Congress could have to enact
the statute in question is the commerce clause in Art. I,
par. 2 of ยง 8 of the Constitution of the United States.
A careful analysis of the statute develops-First, that
it is not a crime for a common carrier to carry a person
from place to place for the purpose of prostitution, or
for any other purpose.
Second. The person traveling, or being carried, cannot
be punished for traveling on the common carrier, notwithstanding the fact that she may be traveling voluntarily for the purpose of prostitution.
Third. It is only the person who purchases the ticket,
etc., or in any way advises a woman or girl to travel interstate who is punished. In other words, the accessory
is punished, and not the principal.
The power to regulate interstate commerce cannot infringe upon the police powers of the State; persons are
not subjects of commerce. New York v. Miln, 11 Pet.
102.
The true test as to whether an article or thing is a proper
subject of commerce and can be considered as a commercial article is whether the said article or thing is merchantable. Bowman v. Chicago & C. Ry. Co., 125 U. S.
489; Boyce v. Anderson, 2 Pet. 149; The License Cases,
5 How. 599.
Under power to regulate commerce, Congress has no
power to declare the status which any person shall sustain
while in a State. 17 Amer. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.,
p. 52; Lemmon v. People, 26 Barb. (N. Y.) 270, aff'd
20 N. Y. 562.

BENNETT v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The intent in a case of this character does not govern,
but it is the condition in which each article or subject is
found. United States v. E. C. Knight & Co., 156 U, S. 1.
Congress has no right to regulate or punish prostitutes.
The crime of prostitution, or the procuring of prostitution in any of the States of the Union, if committed
in any of them, comes under the police powers of
the various States with which Congress has no right to
interfere.
The various States of the Union have not delegated to
Congress the right to interfere with their police powers,
such as the regulation of prostitution, etc.
The Government of the United States is one of enumerated powers, and all powers not granted are reserved
to the people. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 89;
Fairbanks v. United States, 181 U. S. 283.
An unconstitutional act is not a law. It is in legal contemplation as though it had never been passed. Norton
v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425.
Congress, under the commerce clause of the Constitution, has power to regulate the commerce and perhaps
forbid commerce in any commodity, or to forbid any
particular form of commerce, and when it has exercised
that power of regulation, then, and not until then, the
power to enact a criminal statute as a convenient means
of carrying into execution the power to forbid under the
commerce clause arises.
The non-exercise by Congress of its power to regulate
commerce among the several States is equivalent to a
declaration by that body that such commerce shall be
free from restrictions. Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275;
Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485; Webber v. Virginia, 103
U. S. 344, 351; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 473.
Now, then, Congress having passed no
act making it
unlawful for women to travel from State to State for any
purpose, it is equivalent to the declaration of Congress

OCTOBER TE RM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

that such travel by such person shall be free and untrammelled. United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41.
Congress not having passed a law prohibiting women
from traveling for any purpose, it cannot be a crime to
aid such women in traveling'from place to place.
Congress has not exercised its power to direct that no
woman or girl shall travel from place to place for any
purpose whatever, moral or immoral, but, on the contrary,
by its failure to so legislate, by its very negative act, has
declared that right to exist.
There is a clear distinction between lottery dealing and
the white slavery traffic, and the Lottery Cases, 188 U. S.
321, do not apply, as they do not refer to transportation
of persons but only of things.
Congress has no right to keep any person from traveling
from State to State, because the person arriving at his
destination intends to commit a crime upon his arrival.
And if such person did commit a crime upon his arrival
in a sister State, the Government of the United States
could not assume jurisdiction because such person had
traveled in interstate commerce for a criminal purpose.
The police power of the State is supreme in such a case.
Even aliens come under the regulation of the police
powers of a State as soon as they mingle with and become
a part and parcel of the pbpulation of the State, and are
then subject to the penal laws of such State. Keller v.
United States, 213 U. S. 138.
Freedom of traVel and intercourse cannot be infringed.
The Passenger Cgses, 7 How. 283, 426.
The statute is unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the laws,
The various States have never surrendered the police
power to Congress, and, therefore, the law in question is
an infringement upon the police powers of the State.
King v. American Transportation Co., 14 Fed. Cases, 512.
It is not within the province of Congress, or of any

BENNETT v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legislative body, to restrict or restrain the migration of
any person, or their social intercourse. Freund on Police
Power, pp. 487, 528, 720; Ex parte Smith, 135 Missouri,
223; Paralee v. Camden, 49 Arkansas, 165; Millikin v.
Weatherford, 54 Texas, 388; In re Lee Sing et at., 43 Fed.
Rep. 359.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States. 1
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiff in error and petitioner was indicted in the
District Court for the Southern District of Ohio for the
violation of the act of June 25, 1910. She filed a motion
to quash and a demurrer to the indictment, which were
overruled, and upon a plea of not guilty she was tried,
convicted, and sentenced to eleven months imprisonment
in the county jail of Miami County, Ohio, and to pay the
costs of the prosecution.
She made motions for a new trial and in arrest of judgment, which were overruled, and she then prosecuted
error to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where the judgment
against her was affirmed. 194 Fed. Rep. 630.
The demurrer and the motion in arrest of judgment
raised the question of the constitutionality of the statute,
and the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals sustaining
the ruling of the District Court is assigned as error. The
constitutionality of the law was decided in No. 381, Hoke
v. United States, ante, p. 308, and the reasons there given
need not be repeated.
Rulings of the District Court and the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals upon them are also assigned as
error.
See abstract of argument for the United States in Hoke v. United
States, ante, p. 313.

VOL. CCXXVU-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

(1) Defendant was indicted for having caused the
transportation of Opal Clarke, and, it is said, the testimony showed that her correct name was Jeanette but
that she had gone by the names of Opal and Nellie, her
real name, however, being Jeanette Laplante. A variance
is hence asserted between the allegation and the proof.
The Court of Appeals rightly disposed of the contention.
As the court said, the essential thing in the requirement
of correspondence between the allegation of the name of
the woman transported and the proof is that the record
be in such shape as to inform the defendant of the charge
against her and to protect her against another prosecution
for the same offense. The record is sufficient for both
purposes. As the Court of Appeals said, "This leaves no
possible ground for prejudice resulting from the double
variance betweei the name used in the indictment and
the name known to the respondent and the real name."7
(2) The defendant, at the conclusion of the testimony,
moved the court to instruct the jury to return a verdict of
not guilty on the second count of the indictment for the
reason that the indictment alleged that the tickets were
procured at Chicago, Illinois, whereas the testimony
showed that they were procured in Cincinnati, Ohio. The
Circuit Court of Appeals did not pass on that assignment.
It was either not made or it was considered to have no
substantial support by the testimony. The only testimony referred to is that the tickets were purchased in
Cincinnati and sent to the depot at Chicago, where the
women transported got them and used them for transportation from there. It is not possible to imagine that
the variance caused any prejudice, and the assignment
may be passed without further comment.
(3) Another variance is asserted, in that the indictment
charged the transportation of two women and the proof
established the transportation of one. This again is a
contention which has more of technicality than substance.

BENNETT v. UNITED STATES.
227 UL S.

Opinion of the Court.

How what the defendant did not do can be considered
material description of what she did do is not easy to
imagine.
(4) There are errors assigned on instructions requested
and instructions refused. The contention of defendant
apparently is that both women charged to have been
transported should have been objects of her intention and
purpose. That aspect of the contention we have dispqsed
of. So far as the instructions refused directed the attention of the jury to the intent and purpose alleged, they
were covered by the general charge of the court.
(5) The basis of this contention is that Opal Clarke was
the accomplice of defendant as to Ella Parks and that
hence the court erred in its instructions to the jury in regard to the extent of the corroboration Opal Clarke's
testimony had received.
The instruction complained of submitted to the jury
the fact and warned against a conviction upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice and said: "Necessarily, if you find that she was an accomplice with respect
to these charges or any of them, you will then necessarily
have to inquire into the facts as to whether or not there is
corroborating testimony. There is evidence tending to
corroborate her testimony and it is for you.to consider its
force and value and the weight to give to it." The contention is that this was error, "as the court instructed the
jury that there was corroborating evidence, when the
court should have charged the jury that it was for them
to ascertain from the testimony whether or not there was
corroborating testimony." The objection is hypercritical.
The court did not instruct the jury that there was corroborating testimony, but testimony of that tendency, and
added that the force and weight of its corroborating power
was for the jury to determine.
The record presents no error and the judgment is
Affirmed.

