OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
227 TT. S.

Syllabus.

rejecting a claim of $500 or over.

Subdivision b of § 25

regulates appeals from the Circuit Court of Ap)peals to
this court, and is confined to decisions of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals allowing or rejecting a claim under the
act, first, where the amount in controversy exceeds the
sum of $2,000 and the question involved is one which
might have been taken on appeal or error to this court
from the highest court of a State; or, second, where a
Justice of this court shall certify that in his opinion the
determination of the question involved in the ellowanCe
or rejection of the claim is essential to a uniform, construetion of the act. Section 25 further provides that Co01troversies may be certified to the Supreme Court frcur.
other courts of the United States and that the Supreni
Court may exercise jurisdiction thereof, and issue writs
of certiorari pursuant to the laws of the United States.
It will be noticed that the only app.eal in bankruptcy
proceedings from a judgment grantir, or refusing a discharge is from the bankruptcy court to the Circuit Court
of Appeals.
The present appeal must therefore be diwnissed.

LOVELL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
KNIGHT, v. NEWMAN & S01,T
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAF .S

OF

1C'0,3 THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 593.

Submitted January 13, 1913.--Dedeed FeV ' uary 24, 19,3.

Where the jurisdiction of the Federal court jf a suit brought by a
trustee in bankruptcy rests upon diverss citizcn hip alone the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals i n, if, however, the
petition also discloses as an additional ground of jurisdiction that
the case arises under the laws of the United States, the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final but can be reviewed by
this court.

LOVELL v. NEWMAN.
227 U. S.

Statement of Facts.

Whether the case is one arising under the laws of the United States
must be determined upon the statements in the petition itself and
not upon questions subsequently arising in the progress of the case.
Macfadden v. United Slates, 213 U. S. 288.
Section 23 of the Bankruptcy Act as amended by the act of February 5,
1903, conferring jurisdiction on tbe Circuit Courts of certain classes
of cases was not intended to increase the jurisdiction of those courts
in bankruptcy matters but rather to limit it to the- classes of cases
over which those courts are given jurisdiction by the acts creating
them.
Whether the Federal court had jurisdiction on grounds other than diverse citizenship must be determined from eomplainants' own statement as set forth in the bill affirmatively and distinctly, regardless
of questions subsequently arising; grounds of jurisdiction may not
be inferred argumentatively.
A suit to enforce a right which takes its origin in the laws of the United
States is not necessarily, or for that reason alone, one arising under
those laws. There must be a controversy respecting the validity,
construction or effect of such a law upon the determination of which
the result depends.
Where a trustee in bankruptcy sues in the Federal court on the ground
that the property, or bond representing the value thereof, belonged
to the bankrupt, and diverse citizenship exists, the suit does not
depend upon the validity, construction or effect of any law of the
United States, and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
final.
Where a trustee Permits a bond to be given for value of goods and sues
on the bond as merely representing the goods, and not as required
by any statute, the case is not one arising under the laws of the
United States, and jurisdiction is not conferred on the Federal court
by reason of the existence of such a bond.
Where diversity of citizenship exists, the trustee can sue in the Federal
court without consent of defendant and if consent be given, it does
not, where such diversity exists, create an independent ground of
jurisdiction,
Writ of error to revciew 192 Fed. Rep. 753, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
on appeals from and error to the Circuit Court of Appeals
in cases brought by trustees in bankaiptey, are stated in
the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Mr. John W. Griffin and Mr. Everett P. Wheeler, for
defendants in error, in support of motion to dismiss or
affirm.
Mr. W. A. Blount, Mr. H. Generes Dufour and Mr.
Walker Percy, for plaintiff in error, in opposition thereto.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is submitted upon motion to dismiss or affirm.
The action was brought by William S. Lovell, Trustee of
Knight, Yancey & Company, against Isidore Newman &
Son and others in the United States Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, to recover stipulated damages in the sum of $98,500 on a certain bond. Issues were
joined and the case was tried and a judgment rendered
in favor of the defendants. 188 Fed. Rep. 534. On writ
of error the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that judgment. 192 Fed. Rep. 753,
A writ of certiorarito the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was prayed and denied. (December 23, 1912.)
The question of jurisdiction presented is, Was the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals final or is it subject
to review by writ of error in this court? As the present
suit was upon a bond and concerns the right of the trustee
to recover thereon, it presents a controversy arising in a
bankruptcy proceeding, the finality of which in the Circuit
Court of Appeals depends upon. the application of the
Circuit Court of Appeals Act to the case. Hewit v. Berlin
Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296; Coder v. Arts, 213. U. S.
223, 233; Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S. 545,
553; Tefft, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114, 118.
If the jurisdiction in the present case rests alone upon
diverse citizenship, -then, under the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is final; if, as contended by the plaintiff in error, the peti-

LOVELL v. NEWMAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion in the case discloses, as a ground of jurisdiction in
addition to that of diverse citizenship, that the case
arises under the laws of the United States, then the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final and the
case can come here from that court. And it is well settled
that this question must be decided, not because of questions which may have arisen or which might arise in the
subsequent progress of the case, but upon the grounds of
jurisdiction asserted in the petition. Macfadden v. United
States, 213 U. S. 288.
Turning then to the petition for the assertion of the
cause of action upon which this suit was brought, we find
from its averments that Knight, Yancey & Company,
partners, doing business in Decatur, Alabama, were adjudicated bankrupts by the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Alabama on the twentieth of April, 1910; that Lovell, the trustee in bankruptcy,
is a citizen of the State of Alabama, and also that the
members of the partnership and each of them are citizens
of other States than Louisiana. It appears in the petition
that on the third of May, 1910, C. E. Frost and Lovell,
who were then receivers in bankruptcy of Knight, Yancey
& Company, filed, as such receivers, in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, their
petition, which is attached to and made part of the petition in this case, setting forth that certain cotton was in
the possession of the master of the Steamer Ingelfingen
at the port of New Orleans., and would, unless restrained,
be shipped beyond the jurisdiction of the court; that
certain persons in Italy held spurious bills of lading upon
which they would seek to obtain possession of such cotton; that the original bills of lading had been destroyed
or made away with and were not in the hands of bona
fide holders; that therefore the legal title to 'the cotton
was in the petitioners and that any attempt' to ship the
cotton to a foreign country would result in depriving the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

bankrupt estate of that asset and would subject it to the
claims of foreign creditors, and would constitute an unlawful preference within the meaning and intendment of
the Bankruptcy Act in favor of the foreign holders of thespurious bills of lading, and they prayed for an injunction
or that in the alternative the court would order the United
States Marshal to seize and take possession. of the cotton,
and prayed for an order upon the master of the Steamer
Ingelfingen, its owners and agents, to show cause, if any
they could, why the relief prayed for should not be granted.
A restraining order was issued by the District Court, the
master of the Ingelfingen appeared, excepted to the petition, alleging that the receivers had no right or capacity
to institute suit and that the court was without jurisdiction, and afterwards filed an answer in which he set tip
that the partnership had sold cotton to various Italian
purchasers under contracts in the usual mercantile course,
that is, it had shipped the cotton to Italy to its order upon
through bills of lading, and drafts for the price of the
cotton with the bills of lading attached had been discounted, the Italian purchasers finally taking up the
drafts and securing the cotton covered by the bills of
lading; that in February, 1910, the partnership discounted,
and the Italian purchasers subsequently paid, certain
drafts with bills of lading attached, alleged in the petition
to be forged, covering 1400 bales of cotton bearing certain
marks, and they acquired the bills of lading in the regular
course of business, prior to the filing of the petition in
bankruptcy, for value and in ignorance of the forgery;
that in March and April of that year the partnership
shipped the cotton called for by the bills of lading, the
cotton bearing the same marks and the bills of lading
'being substantially identical with the alleged forged bills
of lading, and being the bills of lading alleged in the petition to have been made away with, and that 89 bales of
the cotton were previously exported and the 1311 remain-

LOVELL v. NEWMAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing bales were on board the Ingelfingen. The master
further alleged that the cotton was the property of the
Italian purchasers and rightfully in his possession as bailee
and that the bankrupt estate had no interest in the cotton;
that if the bills of lading in the hands of the purchasers
were spurious they were forged by the partnership and
that the cotton was shipped under genuine bills of lading
which were not now outstanding but of which the alleged
forged bills of lading were duplicates; that the partnership
was paid for the cotton, which was apportioned to cover
the bills of lading held by the purchasers in good faith
and at a time when the partnership was not known to be
insolvent; that the purchasers and their agents were ignorant of the forgery or that the shipment was other than
in regular course, and that no preference was given them.
The master also alleged that the partnership had for some
time been following this practice and that the purchasers
had been securing their cotton under forged bills of lading,
of which practice they were ignorant until after the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy. The master further alleged
that he was the' bailee. under regular bills of lading and
bound to deliver to the true owners, for whom he was
obliged to protect the cotton for which he had issued receipt, and was entitled to earn his freight, for which and
other charges he had a lien on the cotton, and that the
charges would be increased by further delay. He denied
the inadequacy of a remedy at law.. The agent of the
steamer also appeared and adopted the answer of the master of the Ingelfingen as his own. The court, upon a hearing, ordered a temporary injunction upon the receivers
giving bond in the sum of $10,000, and thereupon, the
bond having been given and the temporary injunction
Awarded, the bond now in suit was executed and delivered,
running to the Receivers and such Trustee as might be
elected or appointed, which after reciting the order of
injunction, provided:
VOL. ccxxvii-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

"Whereas, it was further provided in said order or injunction that said cotton. might be removed out of said
jurisdiction upon the filing by the Respondents in said
proceeding, or either of them, of a bond for the value of
said cotton, which has been fixed by agreement for purposes of bonding at the sum above mentioned.
"Now, therefore, the condition of this obligation is
such that if said Th. Ruhne and Isidore Newman and Son,
New Orleans, La. above mentioned shall well and truly
pay to said obligees the said sum of Ninety-eight thousand
Five hundred ($98,500.00) Dollars, or such part thereof
as the Court may direct, if, in a suit or action at law or in
equity that may or shall hereafter be brought on this bond
by said Receivers, or by said Trustee or Trustees, or by
said Estate in bankruptcy against the obligors herein, or
either of them, in the Circuit or District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, it
shall be adjudged that said Receivers, or said Trustee or
Trustees of said Knight, Yancey & Company, or the
Bankrupt Estate of said Knight, Yancey & Company have
the right, title or interest in or to said cotton, or any part
thereof, then and in such case this obligation shall be null,
void and of no effect; otherwise the same shall remain in
full force and effect."
From this recital it is apparent that the proceeding in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Louisiana was ancillary to the original proceeding in
the Court of Bankruptcy in Alabama, where the adjudication was had. It was. long in doubt whether under the
act of 1898 such ancillary proceeding would lie in another
District Court, but the matter was settled in favor of such
jurisdiction in aid of the original jurisdiction by the decisions of this court in Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102,
and in Elkus, Petitioner, 216 U. S. 115. Later, after this
ancillary suit was brought,, the Congress removed all
doubt concerning the matter by passing the act of June 25,

LOVELL v. NEWMAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1910 (36 Stat. 838), expressly conferring suceh ancillary
jurisdiction in aid of the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy
Court which had appointed the receiver or trustee.
The present action was brought upon the bond in the
United States Circuit Court and was taken by writ of
error to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the appellate
jurisdiction to review that court is the one now in question.
Section 23 of the Bankruptcy Act must be consulted to
determine the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. That
section provides:
"SEC. 23. a. The United States circuit courts shall have
jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in equity, as
distinguished from proceedings in bankruptcy, between
trustees as such and adverse claimants concerning the
property acquired or claimed by the trustees, in the same
manner and to the same extent only as though bankruptcy
proceedings had not been instituted and such controversies
had been between the bankrupts and such adverse claimants.
"b. Suits by the trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted in the courts where the bankrupt, whose estate is
being administered by such trustee, might have brought
or prosecuted them if proceedings in bankruptcy had not
been instituted, unless by consent of the proposed defendant, except suits for the recovery of property under
section sixty, subdivision b, and section sixty-seven,
subdivision e" [the exception being added by the amendment of February 5, 1903].
That section gives jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts of
the United States of controversies at law or in equity, as
distinguished from bankruptcy proceedings, between the
trustee and adverse claimants in the same manner and to
the same extent as though bankruptcy proceedings had
not been instituted. It is also provided that suits by the
trustee can only be brought in courts where the bankrupt
might have brought them, if proceedings in bankruptcy

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

had not been instituted, unless by consent of the proposed
defendant. Later when Congress enlarged the jurisdiction
of the District Court by the act of February 5, 1903, exception was made in favor of certain suits for the recovery
of property in fraud of the act, but this did not affect suits
of the present character.: The cases in this court which
have considered this section have determined that it was
not intended to increase the jurisdiction of the UnitedStates Circuit Courts in bankruptcy matters, but rather
to limit it to such suits and controversies as are within the
jurisdiction given such courts by the acts creating them,
that is, controversies in law and in equity with adverse
claimants where the amount involved is in excess of $2,000
where diverse citizenship exists (the citizenship test being,
because of the Bankruptcy Act, that of the bankrupt and
not that of the trustee), or there is a cause of action arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Bush v. Elliott, 202 U. S. 477; 1 Loveland on Bankruptcy,
4th ed., §§ 74 et seq.; 1 Remington on Bankruptcy, § 1686.
The present suit, so far as the ground of diverse citizenship is concerned, conforms to the requirement of the
Bankruptcy Act as construed in Bush v. Elliott, supra, for
th citizenship of the bankrupts is other than that of
Louisiana, and the amount in controversy exceeds the
sum of $2,000. But it is contended that the petition also
discloses a ground of jurisdiction other than diverse
citizenship, and upon the solution of that question the
present jurisdiction depends. This court had recent
occasion to summarize the principles upon which such
jurisdiction rests in Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S.561,
and we can do no better than to recur to that summary for
a statement of the principles which must control in deciding the present case (p. 569):
"1. Whether the jurisdiction. depended on diverse
citizenship alone, or on other grounds as well, must be
determined from the complainant's statement of his own

LOVELL v. NEWMAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cause of action as set forth in the bill, regardless of questi6ns that may have been brought into the suit by the
answers or in the course of the subsequent proceedings.
Colorado Central Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138;
Tennessee v. Union and Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454;
Spencer v. Duplan Silk Co., 191 U. S. 526; Devine v. Los
Angeles, 202 U. S. 313, 333.
"2. It is not enough that grounds of jurisdiction other
than diverse citizenship may be inferred argumentatively
from the statements in the bill, for jurisdiction cannot rest
on any ground that is not affirmatively and distinctly set
forth. Hanford v. Davies, 163 U. S.273, 279; Mountain
View Mining Co. v. McFadden, 180 U. S. 533; Bankers'
Casualty Co. v. Minneapolis &e. Co., 192 U. S. 371, 383,
.385.
"3. A suit to enforce a right which takes its origin in
the laws of the United States is not necessarily, or for that
reason alone, one arising under those laws, for a suit does
not so arise unless it really and substantially involves a
dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect of such a law, upon the determination of
which the result depends."
Does it then appear in the petition in the present case,
in addition to averments of diverse citizenship, that the
petitioner has asserted a ground of jurisdiction which
"really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect of a
law of the United States and upon which his right to recover depends?" Such a cause of action was not asserted
simply because the action was brought by an assignee in
bankruptcy. *Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court,
said, in Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, 536:
"The first clause provides that JThe United States
Circuit Courts shall have jurisdiction of all controversies
at law and in equity, as distinguished from, proceedings
in bankruptcy' (thus clearly recognizing the essential

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. ,.

difference between proceedings in bankruptcy, on- the
one hand, and suits at law or in equity, on the other),
'between trustees as such and adverse claimants, concerning the property acquired or claimed by the trustees,'
restricting that jurisdiction, however, by the further
words, 'in the same manner and to the same extent only
as though bankruptcy proceedings had not been instituted
and such controversies had been between the bankrupt and
such adverse claimants.' This clause, while relating to
the Circuit Courts only, and not to the District Courts of
the United States, indicates the intention of Congress
that the ascertainment, as between the trustees in bankruptcy'and a stranger to the bankruptcy proceedings, of
the question whether certain property claimed by the
trustee does or does not form part of the estate to be
administered in bankruptcy, shall not be brought within
the jurisdiction of the national courts solely because the
rights of the bankrupt and of his creditors have been
transferred to the trustee in bankruptcy."
This was also held in Spencer v. Duplan Silk Co., 191
U. S. 526, in which the assignee brought an action in the
state court in trover for the conversion of goods alleged
to belong to the estate. Diversity of citizenship was
shown, and upon that ground the case was removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States. It went .to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and it was then contended that
it might be reviewed here, but the writ of error was dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller
saying (p. 530):
"But a suit does not so arise unless it really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy as to the effect
or construction of the Constitution, or validity or construction of the laws or treaties of the United States, upon
the determination of which the result depends, and which
appears in the record by plaintiff's pleading. .
"Plaintiff's declaration set forth no matter raising any

LOVELL v. NEWMAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

controversy under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States. It is true that if the lumber and materials
belonged to Bennett and Rothrock on January 13, 1900,
plaintiff in error succeeded to the title of the firm on the
adjudication, but the question of BenAett and Rothrock's
ownership on that day in itself involved no Federal controversy, and the mere fact that plaintiff was trustee in
bankruptcy did not give jurisdiction. Bardes v. Bank,
178 U. S. 524. Indeed if the case had not been removed
and had gone to judgment in the Court of Common Pleas,
and that judgment had been affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania on the same grounds as those on
which the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeded, a writ of
error could not have been brought under § 709 of the
Revised Statutes, for the case would not have fallen
within either of the classes enumerated in that section as
the basis of our jurisdiction. The validity of the bankruptcy act was conceded, and no right specially set up or
claimed under it was denied."
That case has frequently been cited approvingly since.
Warder v. Loomis, 197 U. S. 619; Watkins v. American
Nat'l Bank of Denver, 199 U. S.599; Mobile Transportation
Co. v. Mobile, 199 U. S.604; Montana Catholic Missions
v. Missoula County, 200 U. S. 118, 126; Empire StateIdaho Mining and Developing Co. v. Bunkar Hill and
Sullivan Mining Co., 200 U. S. 613; Russell v. Russell,
200 U. S. 613; Bush v. Elliott, supra; Warder v. Cotton
and Grant, 207 U. S"582; Shulthis v. McDougal, supra.
The trustee, for his recovery upon the bond, did not
rely upon any right specially conferred upon him under
the Federal statute which was the subject of controversy,
and therefore a ground of jurisdiction. He sued to recover upon the bond solely because of his claim that the
1311 bales of cotton were. at the time of the bankruptcy
proceeding the property of Knight, Yancey & Company.
He alleged in the petition that:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

"Your petitioner further avers that the said 1311 bales
of cotton were at the time of the bankruptcy proceedings
and have ever since been the property of Knight, Yancey
& Company, and that as Trustee in bankruptcy of the
said Knight, Yancey & Company, your petitioner as aforesaid is the owner of and has the right, title and interest
in and to the said 1311 bales of cotton, and that your
petitioner is therefore entitled to proceed against and to
demand, collect and receive the principal sum of the bond
filed by the said Th. Ruhne with the said Isidore Newman & Son as surety. . ..
And in the, amended petition he again averred:
"Your petitioner further avers tha$t the statements in
said petition contained with reference to said bills of lading are not true in point of fact, and that the bills of lading
for all of said cotton described in the .original petition
herein, and in the petition in said suit No. 14,129, were
in the possession and under the control of the Receivers
of Knight, Yancey & Company, Bankrupt, and have since
come into the possession and are now under the control
of your petitioner as Trustee of Knight, Yancey & Company, Bankrupt, and your petitioner reiterates that the
title to all of the cotton described in said original petition
was. in said Knight, Yancey & Company, Bankrupt, and
is in said bankrupt estate and in your petitioner as the
Trustee in Bankruptcy of Knight, Yancey & Company,
Bankrupt."
And the Circuit Court in determining the character of
the action said:
"As this case stood on the original petition, in view of
some of the allegations of the petition in the district court
referred to, there might hive been some doubts as to plaintiff's right to proceed at law but, considering the supplemental petition whereby the plaintiff has eliminated
those' pleadings from the instant case and stands solely
on his claim of absolute ownership of the cotton, it is clear

LOVELL v. NEWMAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the action is properly at law. If anything were needed
to strengthen this, the statement of plaintiff's counsel
in open court that he disavows any intention of claiming
a voidable preference against any one, in regard to the
shipment of the cotton, is sufficient."
It therefore appears that the action, as outlined in the
petition, made the plaintiff's right to recover depend upon
the ownership of the property by the bankrupt as its own
before the bankruptcy proceeding. The investigation of
this question involved only matters of general law, and
did not depend upon any right conferred by the Bankruptcy Act upon the trustee.
The cases cited by the plaintiff to the effect that actions
upon marshals' bonds., etc., under statutes of the United
States, give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court because they
arise under the laws of the United States, are not in point;
no more are cases in which this court has held that the
decision of a state court might be reviewed when the con.struction of the Bankruptcy Act claimed by a party in
interest as a Federal right has been denied. The bond
here was not required by any law of the United States.
It was permitted to be given that the property might be
removed upon the steamer upon which it was about to be
carried abroad. Under the allegations of his complaint the
trustee could recover if he could show that the bankrupt
owned this property before the bankruptcy proceedings.
It is said that this bond could not be recovered upon
unless the trustee could show that the property was such
as had passed to the trustee and was liable to execution
at the suit of his creditors. But there is nothing in the
petition to show any lien upon the property or any averments which would have prevented its being made the
subject of levy by creditors if it was owned by the bankrupt. The fact that such matters might have been brought
up by the defendants or that questi'ns may arise in the
subsequent progress of the action which involve laws of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

the United States, it has frequently been held, does not
give jurisdiction. The petition must assert grounds of
recovery which involve a controversy concerning such
laws.
It is also asserted that this case shows not only diversity
of citizenship giving jurisdiction to the Circuit Court
under § 23 of the Bankruptcy Act, but the bond itself
gives consent that the suit may be brought in the Circuit
Court, and that this is an independent ground of jurisdiction. But in this case diversity of citizenship between
the bankrupt and the defendants existed and no consent
was required to enable the plaintiff to sue in the Circuit
Court; Furthermore, the consent provided for in § 23b
certainly was not intended to enlarge the jurisdiction of
the. Circuit Courts of the United States so as to give them
a jurisdiction which they would not have because of diverse
citizenship and a requisite amount in controversy or by
reason of a cause of action arising under the Constitution
or laws of the United States. 1 Remington on Bankruptcy, § 1686. Bush v. Elliott, supra.
We reach the conclusion that the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court asserted in the petition in this case rested
alone upon diverse citizenship, and therefore under the
Circuit Court of Appeals Act the case is one of those
made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Writ of error dismissed.

