CAMERON SEPTIC TANK CO. v. KNOXVILLE.
227 U. S.

39

Syllabus.

motion for some reason and then plaintiffs' counsel said,
"We desire to proceed with the case as against the defendants, the Owatonna Manufacturing Company and the
Creamery Package Manufacturing Company." The
plaintiffs then offered to prove that they had not infringed
the patents sued on by the defendants. It is manifest,
therefore, that the separate liability of the Creamery
Package Manufacturing Company is an afterthought and
urged in this court for the first time.
There are twenty-seven errors assigned upon offers of
testimony excluded or upon other rulings of the Circuit
Court. These we have examined and find that in the view
taken by the courts below of the case and that which we
tUke, there was no error of substance committed.
Judgment affirmed.

CAMERON SEPTIC TANK COMPANY v. CITY
OF KNOXVILLE, IOWA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN

No. 82.

DISTRICT OF IOWA.

Argued December 11, 12, 1912. -Decided January 20, 1913.

Although under §4884, Rev. Stat., a patent is for seventeen years, under
the provision of § 4887, Rev. Stat., as it has been judicially construed,
the American patent granted for an invention previously patented
in another country is limited by law, whether so expressed in the
l)atent itself or not, to expire with the foreign patent previously
ganted having the shortest term.
'-eetion 4887, Rev. Stat., limiting patents to the period of the same
patent previously granted by a foreign country, if any, has not been
superseded by Article 4 bis of the Treaty of Brussels of 1900.
A most essential attribute of a patent is the term of its duration, which
is necessarily fixed by local law, and the Treaty of Brussels will not
be construed as break1ing down provisions of the local law regulating
the issuing of the patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The act of 1903 effectuating the provisions of the Brussels Treaty, as
construed in the light of surrounding circumstances and of similar
legislation in other countries, did not extend an American patent
beyond the period prescribed by § 4887, Rev. Stat.
The Brussels Treaty of 1900 should be construed in accordance with the
declaration of the Congress at which it was framedand adopted at the
instance of the American delegates; and it was the sense of the Congreys of the United States that the treaty was not self-executing.
The act of 1903 did not make Article 4 bis of the Treaty of Brussels
effective or override the provisions of § 4887, Rev. Stat.
THE facts, which involve the construction of §§ 4884
and 4887, Rev. Stat., as affected by the Treaty of Brussels
of 1900 and the effect of prior patents in foreign countries
on the duration of an American patent, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Henry Love Clarke for appellant.
Mr. Wallace R. Lane, with whom Mr. R. L. Welch and
Mr. Samuel H. Crosby were on the brief, for appellee.
MIL JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
A bill in equity was brought by appellant as successor
to the rights of an invention patented under United States
letters patent to Edwin Cameron et al. for a process and
an apparatus for treating sewage, No. 634,423, dated
October 3, 1899. The bill contained the usual allegations
and prayed for an injunction to restrain appellee from the
use of the invention. Appellee filed a plea to the bill in
which it alleged that the invention had been previously
patented in Great Britain by letters patent dated November 8, 1895, and that that patent had expired on or before
the eighth day of November, 1909, being the expiration of

CAMERON SEPTFIC TANK CO. v. KNOXVILLE. 41
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the term for which it was granted, and that therefore the
United States patent expired and became terminated by
law, and it being stipulated that the 'bill should be considered as filed as of that date, and as the bill was not filed
with the purpose or intention of applying for or obtaining
an injunction before the expiration of the British patent,
no injunctive or equitable relief could be had. A dismissal
of the bill was therefore prayed. The decree of the court
recited the facts of the plea and adjudged that the patent
had expired as therein alleged and that its expiration was
not prevented "by any effect of the Treaty of Brussels of
December 14, 1900, which Treaty and the construction
thereof was drawn in question on the plea in this cause;"
and that therefore the court was without jurisdiction, the
complainant having a plain and adequate remedy at law.
This appeal was then prosecuted under § 5 of the Circuit
Court of Appeals Act, March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517.
The single question here is whether the United States
patent expired with the British patent according to the
laws which existed when it was issued or whether its existence was preserved by. the Treaty of Brussels.
At the time the patent was issued § 4884, Revised
Statutes, made the term of a patent seventeen years,
and by § 4887 it was provided that the receiving of a
foreign patent did not prevent the granting of a United
States patent. It was, however, provided that "every
patent granted for an invention which has been previously
patented in a foreign country shall be so limited as to
expire at the same time with the foreign patent, or, if
there be more than one, at the same time with the one
having the shortest term, and in no case shall it be in
force more than seventeen years."
The section coming up for judicial consideration, it
was decided that it assumed that the foreign patent
previouisly granted was one granted for a definite term,
that the United States patent should expire with that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

term, and that it was not to be limited by any lapsing
or forfeiture of any portion of the term of the foreign
patent, by means of the operation of a condition subsequent, according to the foreign statute. Pohl v. Anchor
Brewing Co., 134 U. S. 381, 386. And it was held that the
American patent is limited by law, whether it is so expressed or not in the patent itself, to expire with the foreign
patent having the shortest term. Bate Refrigerating Co.
v. Hammond, 129 U. S. 151, 167; Bate Refrigerating Co.
v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 43; Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor
Co., 213 U. S. 301, 325.
Appellee contends that these decisions and the cited
sections of the Revised Statutes constituted the law of
the United States patent to Cameron and caused it to terminate with the expiration of the term of the British patent.
The argument is that it was granted not for seventeen
years but for a term to be measured by that of the foreign
patent, enduring the full term for which the latter was
granted but no longer, though on its face it was to run
seventeen years. The appellant, opposing the contention,
insists that the Treaty of Brussels has superseded § 4887
and has freed the Cameron patent from subjection to
the provisions of that section. It is the effect of the
contention that, though the patent was issued for a definite term, as decided by the cited cases, the term was
enlarged by the Treaty.
Appellant candidly admits that there are cases adverse
to its contention, but seeks to limit their strength of persuasion or authority to one only, and to that one opposes
the reasoning and precedent of another. The cases so
put in opposition are United Shoe Machinery Co. v.
Duplessis Shoe Machinery Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 842, decided
by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit
against the effect of the treaty contended for, and Hennebique ConstructionCo. v. Myers, 172 Fed. Rep. 869, decided
by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Third Circuit,

CAMERON SEPTIC. TANK CO. v. KNOXVILLE. 43
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which is asserted to be the other way. But the cases do
not present the antagonistic authority of two courts.
Judge Archbald, whose views in the latter case are relied
on by appellant, stated iii a subsequent one (Union Typewriter Company.v. L. C. Smith & Bros., 173 Fed. Rep. 288,
299) that his opinion was not that of the court.
The other cases in which the Brussels Treaty was
considered, and in which it was decided that it did not
enlarge the term of an American patent beyond the term
of a foreign patent for the same invention, are the following: Malignani et al V.Hill-Wright Electric Co., 177 Fed.
Rep. 430; Malignani et al. v. Jasper Marsh Consol. Elec.
Lamp Co., 180 Fed. Rep. 442; Commercial Acet. Co. v.
SearchlightGas Co., 197 Fed. Rep. 908. Appellant contends,
as we have seen, that these cases do. not express indepen-.
dent views but follow United Shoe Machinery Co. v. Duplessis Shoe Co. as authority. This is not true to the extent
contended. In the first two cases an independent judgment was expressed. In the third case (197 Fed. Rep. 908)
it was said of United Shoe Machinery Co. v. Duplessis
Shoe Company that it was "well considered and very
persuasive" and was "deemed to be the correct expression
of the law for the purpose" of the hearing. Judicial
opinion must therefore be ranged against appellant's
contention and is persuasive, at least, of its unsoundness.
Appellant, however, relies on the words of the treaty,
which, it is insisted, have no ambiguity whatever, and
which, it is contended, by the proclamation of the President of September 14, 1902, became the "'supreme law
of the land.'" The provision'relied on reads as follows:
"Art. 4 bis. Patents applied for in the different contracting States by persons admitted to the benefit of the convention under the terms of articles 2 and 3 shall be independent of the patents obtained for the same invention
in the other States adherents or non-adherents to the
Union.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

"This provision shall apply to patents existing at the
time of its going into effect.
* "The same rule applies, in the case of adhesion of new
States, to patents already existing on both sides at the
time of the adhesion." 32 Stat. 1940.
The Cameron patent existed at the time the treaty
went into effect, and the British patent by which it was
limited was a patent obtained in one of the States adhering
to the treaty, namely, Great Britain. It is hence contended
that all of the conditions necessary to the application
of the treaty to the Cameron patent existed, and the
limitation of its term to that of the British patent as
provided by law at the time it was issued was removed,
that law being repealed by the treaty, which, it is, contended further, was self-executing, and the patent-became
a grant for seventeen years. Two propositions are involved in the contentions: ,(1) that' the treaty applies
to the Cameron patent; (2) that the treaty is self-executing.
If either proposition be erroneous, appellant's contentions
are untenable.
To say that the text of the treaty is without ambiguity
does not carry us far. All of the conditions of a patent
are not expressed in it, and when these are considered
construction is demanded and must be exercised. What
is meant by the independence of a patent for the same
invention in different States? It certainly was not intended to break down all of the provisions of law applicable to a patent; in other words, to interfere with the
manner of its grant, and, it would seem by necessary
implication, the extent of its grant as provided by the
local law. A most essential attribute of a patent is the
term of its duration, which is necessarily fixed and determined by the local law. And what difference in
principle or effect is there if the term be expressed directly
by a number of years or by something else, as a foreign
patent which has a certain duration? The patent is no

CAMERON SEPTIC TANK CO. v. KNOXVILLE. 45
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

more contingent in one case than in the other. It is
complete in both cases at the moment it is issued. In
both cases its term has certain definition given by the
local law. And this is the declaration of the cases,
and that the integrity of its term and its independence
were-not affected by subsequent conditions which might
terminate the foreign patent.
But it is contended that so to confine the treaty is to
deprive it of significance and force because the decisions
of this court had given to patents such independence.
Pohl v. Anchor Brewing Company, 134 U. S. 381. The
answer is not sufficient. It might have been thought
worth while to give conventional sanction to the judicial
construction and make it applicable to the adhering States
whose laws were not uniform; and it is certain that there
was an immediate demand of the American delegates
so to qualify the provision that it should not extend the
term of the monopoly of the patent beyond that which
was given by the law under which the patent had been
issued.
The details of the conference are set out in Hennebique
Construction Co. v. Myers, supra. It appears that Mr.
Forbes, one of the American delegates, pointed out that
if Article 4 bis could be interpreted as applying to patents
already issued, which he said it might be, it would encounter opposition in the United States, and he inquired
whether it could not be made the subject of a special
protocol. A view was expressed that the Article would
not produce the apprehended effect, but Mr. Forbes
insisted on the necessity of stating the point precisely
in"
order to avoid error of interpretation. After debate,
in which different views were expressed, the Director
of the International Bureau suggested the following
amendment: "This provision, shall apply to patents
in existence at the time of its being put into force. Its
effects are, however, limited to nullities and lapses which

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

would affect anterior patents." The amendment was not
adopted, but, following the suggestion of Mr. Bellamy
Storer, one of the delegates from the United States, the
President "put to vote the adoption of the text previously
adopted for Article 4 bis, with the interpretation which
the American delegation desired to specifically point out,
by proposing to complete. the second paragraph by supplementing this explanatory clause: 'However, the term fixed
by the initial law of each country remains intact.' Article 4 bis is definitely adopted with this condition."
It is, however, urged that the delegate from Great
Britain said that he "could only take the indicated act of
interpretation as a declaration of the American delegation and not as a decision of the Conference." The proceedings, however, show that the Conference adopted
the whole of the first final protocol prepared by the Committee on Reports.
Certain subjects were not disposed of by the Conference
but postponed with the comment that "after the exchange
of views through diplomatic channels," the Conference
would "reassemble anew in the Belgian Capital in order
to finish its work."
The American delegates reported to the Secretary of
State their understanding of the meaning of Article 4 bis
and the interpretation which had been given it by the
Conference. The unanimous sanction of the Conference,
they said, was that the second paragraph of Article 4 bis,
which reads: "This provision shall apply to all patents
existing at the time of its entering into force," was not applicable to existing United States patents but only to those
patents whose terms might be shortened by the laws of those
States of the Union [for the Protection of Industrial Property] in which provision was made for the shortening of the
term on the lapsing of patents for the same invention in
,-)ier States. Existing United States patents, they further
o4, could nnf be affected by what might take place

CAMERON SEPTIC TANK CO. v. KNOXVILLE. 47
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in regard to a foreign patent, their terms having been determined by § 4887 at the moment they were issued and
that therefore their duration was unaffected by the subsequent expiration of a foreign patent for the same invention by reason of non-payment of taxes or non-working.
There was a second session of the Conference in December, 1900. Article 4 bis was not further debated.
There was some reference to it as one of three arrangements "concerning retroactivity." Appellant hence insists that having that quality the article necessarily
applied to existing patents and was a "plain and simple
retroactive ending of the former dependence of existing
patents upon the running of the terms allowed to foreign
patents." To confine the provision, it is contended further, to "mere future contingencies that might befall
patents would be prospective and not 'retroactive.'"
In aid of these contentions it is urged that the American
delegates, two of whom were new, made no objection
to the declaration of the retroactivity of Article 4 bis, and
that no limiting protocol was annexed to the treaty when
it was finally adopted at Brussels in 1900 and that the
Article was ratified by the Senate and proclaimed by the
President without qualifying it. The considerations have
strength, but there are opposing ones. The second session
of the Conference was a continuation of the first.' The
American delegates had secured an interpretation of
Article 4 bis. It could be accepted by them as final and
definite. There was no challenge of it by ascribing retroactivity to Article 4 bis, for that Article was recognized
to have such effect but not to extend the term of a patent
fixed by the initial law. Future contingencies, as said
by appellant, would of course be prospective, but whether
patents existing at the time of the treaty should be subject to them or independent of them wag retroactive.
The action of Congress must be taken into account
in estimating appellant's contentions. In United Shoe

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Machinery Co. v. Dupiessis Shoe Vachinery Co., supra,
it was made determinative, and the court decided that
what construction should be put on Article 4 bis, and
what rule should apply as to its becoming effective became academic questions in view of the provisions of the
act of Congress of 1903, entitled "An Act to Effectuate
the Provisions of the Additional Act of the International
Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property."
The act of 1903 was preceded by--and probably induced
by-a letter which the Charg6 d'Affaires of Switzerland
addressed to the Secretary of State. The letter was
prompted, according to its representations, by the embarrassment to which the International Bureau was subjected on account of the uncertainty of the action of the
United States in regard to the Additional Act of Brussels
of December 14, 1900, the treaty being so designated. It
referred to the Convention of March 20, 1883, and the.
approval by the Senate of that Convention in 1887, but it
stated "that Congress had not brought into the Federal
law the changes required to make it consonant with the
Convention," and that, "according to the opinion rendered by Attorney General Miller in 1889, American
courts have consistently decided that the Convention of
1883 could not be enfoi'ced in the United States except so
far as it accorded with the law of the country." The
opinion was expressed that the difficulties attending this
condition of things were not so great as they would have
been in some other country, but it was said, however, that
the circumstances had changed since the Additional Act of
Brussels went into effect. One of the most important of
its provisions, it was said, was that which amends Article 4
of the Convention of 1883. extending to one year the
priority of six months during which the original applicant
for a patent in one of the States of the Union may validly
file an application for the same invention in the other
contracting States. After some comment on the priority

CAMiVERON SEPTIC TANK CO. v. KNOXVILLE. 49
227 U. S.,

Opinion of the Court.

period, the letter proceeded as follows: "The Bureau is
placed in an awkward situation. On the one hand, it cannot say that the United States will not enforce the Additional Act it has ratified and has asked should go into
effect. On the other hand, it is without information that
the bills relative to industrial property that have been
framed in the committee organized under the act of June 4,
1898, have been passed by Congress; and it is constrained
to admit that according to judicial precedents the new
Treaty provisions could not be enforced until the corresponding legislation shall have been revised." The required legislation was urged.
The Secretary of State replied to the letter, describing
it as" in regard to the provisions of the Industrial Property
Convention of March 20, 1883, and the Brussels Act of
December 14, 1900, modifying it," and said that he was
advised by the Secretary of the Interior that he had prepared a bill "to make effective in this country the Convention and modifying Act in question."
The act of 1903 was then enacted, and if there could be
any doubt that it expressed the sense of Congress and those
concerned with the treaty that it required legislation to
become effective, such doubt would be entirely removed by
the legislative action of other States. It appears from the
repoft of the Committee on Patents of the Senate and of
the House of Representatives on the proposed legislation
that thirteen countries had adopted legislation giving full
force and effect to the provisions of the Additional Act
either in the form of a general law or by specific amendment to other laws providing for carrying into force the
provisions of the Additional Act as regards the extension
of the "delay and priority" to twelve months. Other
countries were mentioned as being expected to do so. In
explaining the object of the-bill the member in charge of
it in the House of Representatives said that it was to carry
into effect the Additional Act of the Convention held at
VOL. ccxxvii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Brussels in December, 1900; and, further, that the Additional Act agreed upon simply extended the period of
priority in applications for patents, and that it did not
"extend by a single instant the life of any patent nowin
existence, or any p)atent that may be granted, hereafter."
He fur'ther said that nearly all of the nations which were
represented at Brussels had already passed legislation to
give force to the act and that it was but fair that this
country should take similar action.
An attempt is made by appellant to distinguish between
Article 4 bis and the provisions of the treaty expressly
dealt with by Congress, and to assign to that Article a
more distinct and definite power of execution than the
other provisions possess. To account thereby for its
omission from the act of 1903, it is urged, that those provisions concern matters of administrative law which might
be or thought to be in conflict with statutory provisions,
whereas Article 4 bis accomplished all that it could accomplish the instant the treaty went into effect and there was
nothing further to be done as a matter of administrative
law. We are unable to accept the distinction, and appellant is therefore brought to this alternative. If the treaty
be construed, as we think it must be construed, in accordance with the declaration of the Conference at the instance
of the American delegates, it has no application to the
Cameron patent. If it be not self-executing, as it is certainly the sense of Congress that it was not and seems also
tr be the sense of some of the other contracting nations,
B(d as the act of 1903 did not make effective Article 4 bis,
the provisions of § 4887 apply to the Cameron patent, and
caused it to expire with the British patent for the same
invention.
Decree affirmed.

