OC'rOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

WADKINS v. PRODUCERS OIL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 638.

Argued January 31, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Where defendant's claim to land formerly part of the public domain is
based on his grantor's rights under the statutes governing the disposition thereof, and sustained by the construction given to such
statutes by the state court, the decision against the plaintiff involves
the denial of a Federal right as asserted by him.
Under §§ 2291,'2292, Rev. Stat., no rights accrue to the wife of an
entryman who dies before the entry is l;erfccted, and nothing passes
under the inheritance laws of the State in which the land is situatcd.
Under § 3 of the act of May 14, 1880, providing that settlers might
file homestead entries and that their rights should relate back to
(late of settlement; the inchoate right is initiated by the settlement
and the perfected right when evidenced by patent finally obtained
relates back fo that date, but no vested right is obtained until full
compliance with the provisions of the act.
Where a statute of the (ilied St'.tes gives definite rights oui the happening of certain contingencies, mm rights c'n vest until such contingencies happen, and unle.s the wife sinvives the entryman and
becomes his widow she acquires no rigts to the land, whether the
entry was made before or after her mariage to the entryman.
Prior to patent the rights of the entryman are essentially inchoate and
exclusively within the operation of the laws of the United States,
and .where those laws designate the beneficiaries of a compliance
therewith, state laws are excluded. McCuOc v. Essig, 199 U. S. 382.
An entryman, prior to marriage, settled on the land but made his entry
after marriage; prior to perfection and patent. his wife died leaving
children; after perfecting and obtaining a patent he sold. Held that
he perfected the entry in his own right and under §§ 2291, 2293, his
wife had acquired no interest therein which descended to her children
under the law of the State.
129 Louisiana, 484, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of the Home-

stead Entry Law of the United States and the rights of an

entryman and of his wife, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. L. Herold, with whom Mr. W. P. Hall and Mr. J,
A. Thigpen were on the brief, for plainitiff in error,

WADKINS v. PRODUCERS OIL COMPANY.
227 U. S.

369

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Amos. L. Beaty for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action brought in the First Judicial District Court of
Louisiana, in and for the Parish of Caddo, by plaintiff in
error (and as he was plaintiff below we shall so call him)
against the defendants in error (herein referred to as defendants) for the recognition of Effie Bell Wadkins,
represented by him as her natural tutor, as owner of an
undivided one-half interest in and to the S. E. Y4 of section 3, township 20 North, range 16 West, Caddo Parish,
Louisiana, and to put her in possession thereof, and to
require the defendants to pay for all the oil and other
minerals extracted therefrom, and, as tutor of said minor,
to have judgment against them in solido for market value
of one-half of all oil, gas and other minerals that have been
produced up to date and which may be produced.
Judgment was entered recognizing the minor as the owner
of an undivided one-half interest in the land, as prayed,
and for $86,328.24, the value of the oil extracted therefrom,
with interest and costs. The right of the minor to a further
accounting was also reserved. The judgment was reversed
by the Supreme Court of the State. 129 Louisiana, 484.
The question in the case is whether a homestead entry
made by the father of the minor is community property,
her mother having died before the perfection of the entry.
The facts, as taken from the opinion of the Supreme
Court, are as follows: In June, 1893, W. H. Wadkins,
father of Effie, the minor, settled on the land with the
view of acquiring it as a homestead. On February 25,
1895, he made application for and obtained a preliminary
homestead entry at the proper local land office. At the
end of five years, to wit, on September 8, 1898, he made
final proof and secured a final homestead entry, upon
which he subsequently obtained a patent.

OCTOBER ' TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Cotirt.

227U. S.

Wadkins married the mother of the minor on June 24,
1894; she died 'December 5, 1896. Two children were
born of this, marriage, one of whom died at the age of two
years; the other is. the plaintiff.
Thedefendants are oil and gas companies operating in
the Caddo oil an&gas fields, the Producers Oil Company
operating under a lease from the other company. The
property has produced and "is, still producing a large
amount of oil.
A motion is made to. dismiss. As pertinent to the motion the answer of the Producers Oil Company must be
considered. It alleges that Wadkins actually settled upon
the land on or before, December 12, 1893, under the
homestead laws of the 'United: States, the land then being
public land of the United States and subject, to settlement:
and entry under those laws, and did not, marry the mother
of plaintiff until several months later,; that the patent was
issued as early as December 12, 1898, thereby fixing and
determining the date of settlement 'as being at least five
years prior thereto; that defendant is the lessee of its codefendant, who claims to own and does own the land in
fee simple by regular, conveyance from Wadkins, and that
defendant,: therefore, claims a right, title, privilege: and
immunity under the statutes of :the United States, and
particularly under the acts of Congress governing homesteadl entries on the public lands of the United States, and
that under, those statutes plaintiff has no right, title or
interest in the lands.
The answer ofthe Atlanta & Shreveport Oil and Gas
Company alleges substantially, the same facts and that
"all allegations of its co-defendant as to Federal questions
are adopted and made part'' of defendant's answer.
It will appear in our discussion of the case that the Federal right thus invoked was passed on by the Supreme Court
of the State and, was an, element in its decision agaihst
plaintiff. The motion to (lismiss is therefore overruled.

WADKIN.
227 U.'S'

v. PRODUCERS OIL COMPANY.

371

Opinion of the Court.

Under the laws of the United States every person who
is the head of a family, and having certain other qualifications not necessary to mention, shall be entitled to enter
a quarter-section or less of thepublic lands.
By §§ 2291 and 2292 of the Revised Statutes it is provided as follows:
"SEc. 2291. No certificate, however, shall be given, or
patent issued therefor, until the expiration of five years
from the date of such entry; and if at the expiration of
such time, or at any time within two years thereafter, the
person making such entry; or, if he be dead, his widow; or,
in case of her death, his heirs or devisee; or in case of a
widow making such entry, her heirs or devisee, in case of
her death, proves by two creditable witnesses that he, she,
or they have resided upon or cultivated the same for the
term of five years immediately succeeding: the time of
filing the affidavit, and makes affidavit that no part of
such land had been alienated, except as provided in section twenty4wo hundred and eighty-eight, and that he,
she, or they will bear true allegiance to the Government
of the United States; then, in such case, he,, she, or they, if
at that time citizens of the United States, shall be entitled
to a patent as in other cases provided by law .
..
"SEc. 2292. .
.
In case of the death of both father
and mother, leaving an infant child or children under
twenty-one years of age, the right and fee shall inure to
the benefit of such infant child or children.
.
In McCune v. Essig, 199 U. S. 382, we decided that the
beneficiaries of the statute were (1) the entryman, (2) his
widow, she performing and proving the performance of
the conditions, to-wit, residence and cultivation of the
land for the time prescribed; and (3)---§ 2292- a child
or children under 21 years of age. And the rights are
independent; or, in other words and in illustration, as we
said in McCune v. Essig (p. 389), the homestead claimant
"may reside uponand cultivate the land, and. by doing so

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

isentitled to a patent.

227 U. S.

If he die 'his; widow is given the

right of residence and cultivation, and 'shall be entitled
to a patent as in other cases.' He can make no devolution
of the land against her. The statute which gives him a
right gives her a right. She is as much a beneficiary of
the statute as he."
Her rights therefore are derived from the statute but
necessarily depend upon the contingency mentioned, that
is, his death before perfecting his entry. If she die before
Ihen, if she does not become a widow before then, necessarily no right vests in her under the statute. And such
was the fact in the case at bar. The mother of the minor
(tied before any right could accrue to her. To express it
another way, the entry of Wadkins was perfected in his
own right.
But it is said that his right has relation to the date of
his entry and must be considered as having vested then.
A like contention was rejected in McCune v. Essig. A
title derived from a widow was there sustained against
the contention that by the entry of her husband the land
involved had become community property under the
state law and an undivided one-half thereof passed at his
death to his daughter. The ruling is directly in point.
It appears that Wadkins settled on the land before his
marriage but did not make a formal homestead entry of
it until after his marriage, and it is hence argued that an
inchoate right vested in him by his entry only; and that
the entry having been made "during the regime of the
community of acquets and gains incidental to the marriage," the patent under the jurisprudence of Louisiana
conveyed the "full title of the Government to the cominunity." And this, it is contended, the Supreme Coint
decided to be the law of the State but considered that
it could not be applied in the case at bar because the court
erroneously decided that Wadkins' settlemeni, which
occurred before his marriage, was the conimienceinent of

WADKINS v,PRODUCERS OIL COMPANY.
227 U. S.

373

Opinion of the Court.

his right, and not the entry at the land office, which occurred after his marriage.
The court did decide that the right of Wadkins began
with his settlement and not by his entry and applied the
law of the State in accordance with that view, yielding to
it, as the court said, "as an effect of the act of Congress of
1880" and of the codal provisions of the State "touching
the retrospective operation of the accomplishment of
suspensive conditions."
The provision of the act of May 14, 1880 referred to is
as follows: "See. 3. That any settler who has settled, or
who shall hereafter settle, on any of the public lands of
the.United States, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with
the intention of claiming the same under the homestead
laws, shall be allowed the same time to file his homestead
application and perfect his original entry in the United
States land office as is now allowed-to settlers under-the
preenmption laws to put their claims on record, and his
right shall relate back to the date of settlement, the same as if
he settled under the preemption laws." (Italics ours) 21
Stat. 140, c. 89.

The Supreme Court, to sustain its view, cited Maddox
v. Burnham, 156 U. S.544; St. Paul, Minneapolis & Man.
Ry. Co. v. Donohue, 210 U. S.21.
In Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541, 547, the court said,
through Chief Justice Fuller, that "the ruling of the
Land Department has been that if the homestead settler
shall fully comply with the law as to continuous residence
and cultivation, the settlement defeats all claims intervening between its date and the date of filing his homestead entry, and in making final proof his five years of
residence and cultivation will commence from the date of
actual settlement."
In Maddox v. Burnham, the act of 1880 was commented
on and it was decided (p. 547) that by that act "for the
first. time the right of a pn:rty entering land tulder the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

homestead law was made to relate back to the time of
settlement."
In St. P., Minn. & Man. Ry. Co. v. Donohue, 210 U. S.
30, it was held it was not until May, 14, 1880, that a
homestead entry was permitted to be made upon unsurveyed public lands and "for the first time, both as to the
surveyed and unsurveyed public lands, the right of the
homestead settler was allowed to be initiated by and to
arise from the act of settlement, and not from the record
of the claim made in the Land Office." 21 Stat. 140.
There can be no doubt that Wadkins' inchoate right
was initiated by his settlement and that as between him
and any intervening claimant his perfected right evidenced
by the patent related back to the time of his settlement,
(Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S: 330, 338; Weyerhaeuser v.
Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380, 388-390), but he did not acquire any
vested interest in the land until he had fully complied
with the provisions of the homestead law and submitted
proof thereof at the local office. Prior to that time his
right was essentially inchoate and exclusively within the
operation of the. laws of the United States, and those laws,
as we have seen, fully dealt; with the subject of who should
be the beneficiary of a compliance with them,, thereby
excluding state laws from that field. This is a manifest
deduction from :M cCune v. Essiq. There might be a
curious and confusing result from an opposite ruling, as
pointed out by the Supreme Court of the State in its first
opinion. Suppose Wadkins had married again and diecd
before perfecting his claim. Could his widow have continued the required residence upon and cultivation of the
land? And if so; in what right--her own, or that of the
first wife, or in both rights? Section 2291 precludes's Ui
confusion. It is a definite grant of rights, and. who shall
be its beneficiaries are explicitly designated and upon
what contingencies and upon the perfoinemue of whit
Cfrt~l tn.
Unt il sch con tilgen(ie's h1appet :In01tiil

(ORDOVA

v. l"O11GUERAS.

Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

such performance no rights vest. It follows that the
mother of Effie Bell Wadkins acquired no interest in the
land.
Judgment affirmed.

CORDOVA ,.FOLGUERAS Y RIJOS.
DUMEY v. HERNANDEZ Y BELLO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

Nos. 141, 160.

Argued January 23, 1913.--Decided February 24, 1913.

During the lifetime of the ancestor no heir has a vested right to inherit
from him; and heirs only have such rights of inheritance as are
given to them by the laws in force at their ancestor's death.
It is not an interference with vested rights to prescribe the mode of
procedure, or the time within which to enforce them, provided
reasonabletime be given therefor.
Under the laws of Porto Rico, while Law Eleven of'Toro as to effect
of acts of recognition of rights of natural children may be in force,
the provisions of §§ 133 and 137 of the Code of 1902 must be complied with in order to enforce such rights; and this applies to persons
whose alleged parent died prior to the enactment of the Code.
Decisions of the courts of Spain rendered after 1898, construing Spanish law applicable to possessions ceded to the United States, although
entitled to great consideration, do not preclude the local court, from
reaching an independent judgment.
16 Porto Rico, 593, affirmed.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 191, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the law
of Porto Rico in regard to actions for acknowledgment
of natural children, are stated in the opinion.

