OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

227 U. S.

certain details sought to be proved. Under. the circumstances there was no error in the ruling.
In conclusion we say, after consideration of all errors
assigned, that there was no ruling made which was prejudicial to defendants.
Judgmeni' affirmed.

ATHANASAW AND SAMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 588. Argued January 7, 8, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Hoke v. United States, ante, p. 308, followed to effect that the White
Slave Traffic Act of June 25, 1910, isconstitutional.
The White Slave Traffic Act of 1910 against inducing women and girls
to enter upon a life of prostitution or debauchery cov(,rs acts which
might ultimately lead to that phase of debauchery which consists in
sexual-actions; and in this case held that there was no error in refusing to charge that the gist of the offense is the intcntion of the person
when the transportation is procured, or that the word "debauchery"'
as used in the statute means sexual intercourse or that the act does
not extend to any vice or immorality other than that applicable to
sexual actions.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and construction of the White Slave Act and validity of an indictment and conviction thereunder, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. W. A. Carter and John P. Wall filed a brief for
plaintiffs in error:
The White Slave Act is unconstitutional, because it
violates §2, Art. IV, of the Constitution of the United

ATHANASAW v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States. Crandallv. State of Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; Joseph v.
Randolph, 71 Alabama, 499; Paul v. Virgi?ia, 8 Wall.
168; 2 Tucker on the Constitution, 256, 530, paragraph D;
United States v. Harris, 106 U. S.629.
Power to pass the White Slave Act is not granted to
the Federal Congress by the commerce clause of the
Constitution. See Tucker on the Constitution, p. 528.
The White Slave Act conflicts with the Ninth and
Tenth Amendments to the Constitution and infringes
on the reserved police powers of the State. City of New
York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102; Howard v. I. C. R. Co., 207
U. S.463; Keller v. United States, 213 U. S.138; Lottery
Cases, 188 U. S.22; State v. Ry. Co., 27 W. Va. 783.
In their decisions sustaining the act, the lower Federal
courts in Bennett v. United States, 194 Fed. Rep. 630;
Kalen V. United States, 196 Fed. Rep. 888; United Slates
v. TVestman, 182 Fed. Rep. 1017; United States v. Warner,
188 Fed. Rep. 682, have misconstrued the commerce
clause of the Constitution.
As to the errors assigned upon the charges given and
refused by the court, see Anderson's Law Dict. 314; 1
Abbott's Law Diet. 348; 2 Lewis' Suth. Stat. Const., 2d ed.,
§ 442.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States.'
\IEL. JUsTICE NI(K[,,NNA delivered the opinion of the
courllt.

Indictment for violat ing the act of Congress of June 25,
1910, known as the White Slave Act. 36 Stat. 825, c.395.
The charge is that the defendant transported or caused
to be transported, or aided in the transportation of a gMi
SeT a tract of aurguent for the United States in Hoke v. .i10-1
Slh',s, ante, 1).313."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

by the name of Agnes Couch from Atlanta, Georgia, to
Tampa, Florida, for the purpose of debauchery.
A crime is variously charged against §§ 2 and 3 of the
act in thirty-nine counts, alleging that the transportation
was for "the purpose of debauchery" or "to give herself
up to debauchery."
A demurrer was filed to the indictment, alleging as
grounds thereof the unconstitutionality of the act and
that the ihdictment was insufficient in certain particulars
of fact. The demurrer was overruled, and after a trial
upon a plea of not guilty defendants were convicted. Defendant Athanasaw was sentenced to imprisonment for
two years and six months and the defendant Sampson for
one year and three months. The contentions of the defendants are that the act of Congress is unconstitutional
and that errors were committed by the District Court in
giving and refusing to give certain instructions to the
jury.
1. This case was argued and submitted with No. 381,
Hoke v. United States, ante, p. 308. The constitutionality
of the law was sustained in that case, and further discussion is unnecessary.
2. To understand thd ruling of the court on the instructions an outline of the facts must be stated. Agnes Couch
was a girl of seventeen years. She lived at Suwanee,
Georgia; but, being in Atlanta in September, 1911, and
seeing an advertisement by one Sam Massel for chorus
'girls, she applied at his office and signed a contract to
appear with the Imperial Musical Comedy Company at
the Imperial Theatre,,, Tampa, Florida, as a chorus girl
at a salary of $20 a week for the first four weeks and $15
a week thereafter, she to room and board in the theatre.
The theatre was operated by the defendants, and Massel
acted as their baoking representative" at Atlanta. Aftershe signed the contract Massel gave her a railroad ticket
which had been provided by the defendants for that

ATHANASAW v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose. She arrived at Tampa about 6:30 a. m. and met
the defendant Athanasaw at seven o'clock.
As to what then took place, the girl testified as follows:
"He showed me my room, and took the check to get my
trunk. I wient to sleep and slept until 2 o'clock in the
afternoon. At that hour one of the girls awoke me up to
rehearse. I went down in the theatre and stayed there
about -an hour rehearsing, singing; and ther went to
lunch in the dining room. All of the girls were there, and
several boys. I had never had any stage experience. At
lunch they were all smoking, cursing, and using such
language I couldn't eat. After lunch I went to my room,
and about 6 o'clock Louis Athanasaw, one of the defendants, came and said to me I would like it all right;
that I was good looking and would make a hit, and, not
to let any of the boys fool me, and not be any of the boys'
girl; to be his. He wanted me to be his girl; to talk to the
,boys and make a hit, and get all of the money I could out
of them. His room was next to mine, and he told me he
was coming in my room that night and sleep with me;
and he kissed and caressed me. He told me to dress for
the show that night and come down into the boxes. I
went into the box about 9 o'clock. About that time Louis
Ati'nasaw's son knocked on my door and told me to come
to the boxes. In the box where I went there were four
boys; they were smoking, cursing, and drinking. I sat
down and the boys asked me what was the matter, I
looked scared. I told them I was ashamed of being in a
place like that.; and Ahrthur Schlemann, one of the boys,
said he would take me out. The others insisted on my
staying, and said I would like it when I got broke in.
l tried to go out with Schlemann, but a boy named Gilbert pulled me back, saying 'Let that cheap guy alone.'
Schleinann said he would send a policeman, and in about
15 minutes Mr. Thompson and Mr. Evans came in for
nlC. '

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Athanasaw denied that he made improper proposals to
the girl, and it was testified that at the preliminary hearing she did not charge him with such. In all else, however,
her testimony was not contradicted and it was supported
as to the character of the house and as to what took place.
Three propositions are presented by defendants: (1) The
gist of the offense is the intention of the person when the
transportation was procured or aided to be procured.
(2) The word "debauchery" as used in the statute means
sexual intercourse. (3) The act did not intend to prohibit
the transportation of women for the purpose of any other
vice or immorality than that applicable to sexual actions.
The instructiods requested by the defendants presented
these propositions, and by refusing them and giving others
inconsistent with them it is contended that the court
erred. The ruling of the court is sufficiently exhibited
by the instructions which it gave, and they can be made
the basis as well of a consideration of the errors assigned
by the refusal of the instructions requested by defendants.
The instructions given by the court are as follows:
"The intent and purpose of the defendants at the time
of the furnishing of this transportation for Agnes Couch
is the very gist and question of this case. Did they intend
to induce or entice or influence her to give herself up to
debauchery? It makes no difference whether the profits
which would be made by the defendants came from the
sale of liquor or other immoral purposc. The question
here is of intent; what was the intent with which they
brought ,her; that she should live an honest, moral and
proper life? or that she came and they engaged and contracted with her for the purpose of her entering upon a
condition which might be termed debauchery, or tends to
or would necessarily and naturally lead her to a condition
of debauchery just referred to?
"The term debauchery is not a legal or technical term.
There is no allegation that the defendants brought her

ATHANASAW v. UNITED STATES.
227 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

here with the purpose or with the intent to debauch her;
but to induce her or entice her, or influence her to enter
upon a course of debauchery. The term debauchery is
not a legal or technical term. To debauch-is to corrupt
in morals. or principles; to lead astray 'morally into dishonest and vicious practices; to" corrupt; to lead into
unchastity; to debauch. Debauch e then, is an excessive
indulgence of the body; licentiousness,drnkenness, corruption of innocence, taking up vicioug-habits. The term
debauchery, as used in this statute, has an idea of sexual
immorality; that is, it has the idea of a life which will lead
eventually or tends to lead to 'sexual immorality; not
necessarily drunkenness or immorality, but here it leads
to the question in this case as to whether or not the influences in which this girl was surrounded by the employment which they called her to, did not tend to induce her
to give herself up to a condition of debauchery which
eventually, neR.essarily. and naturally would lead to a
course of immorality sexually. That is the question for
you to determine, and it is a question that you alone can
determine. You have heard the testimony in the case in
regard to the circumstances in which: she was placed. You
have viewed the scene where she was employed. You
have examined by the testimony and your observation
what was the character and what was the condition or
influences in which the girl was placed by the defendants.
Was or was not it a condition that would iqecessarily and
naturally lead to a life of debauchery of a carnal nature
relating to sexual intercourse between man and woman?
"Now, it is contended that they must have had a deliberate intent to debauch her when-she came here; that
either one or the other intended to debauch her or to get
somebody else to debauch her. Now that term debauch
is used in a great many instances in law, and the usual
connection is to have carnal intercourse with; but there is
no such language in this statute, nor is it the language of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

the indictment. The charge of the indictment in substance is that they induced or influenced her to enter into
a life or condition of debauchery,-' to induce or compel
her to give herself up to debauchery.' "
The language of the statute is directed against the transportation "of any woman or girl for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose,
or with the intent and purpose to induce, entice, or compel
such woman or girl to become a prostitute or to give
herself up to debauchery, or to engage in any other immoral practice."
The instructions of the court were justified by the statute. It is true that the court did not give to the word
debauchery or to the purpose of the statute the limited
definition and extent contended for by defendants, nor
did the court make the guilt of the defendants to depend
upon having the intent themselves to debauch the girl or
to intend that some one else should do so. In the view of
the court the statute had a more comprehensive prohibition and was designed to reach acts which might ultimately lead to that phase of debauchery which consisted
in "sexual actions." The general expressions of the court,
however, were. qualified to meet and not go beyond the
conduct of the defendants. The court put it to the jury
to consider whether the employment to which the defendants called the girl and the influences with which they
surrounded her tended "to induce her to give herself up
to a condition of debauchery which eventually and
naturally would lead to a course of immorality sexually."
That question, the court said, the jury should determine,
and further "You have heard the testimony in the case
in regard to the circumstances in which she was placed.
You have viewed the scene where she was employed. You
have examined by the testimony and your observation
what was the character and what was the condition or
influence in which the girl was placed by the defendants.

BENNETT v. UNITED STAT ES.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

Was or was not it a condition that would necessarily and
naturally lead to a life of debauchery of a carnal nature
relating to sexual intercourse between man and woman?"
The plan and place justified the instructions. The plan
might have succeeded if the coarse precipitancy of one of
the defendants and the ribaldry of the habitues of the
place had not shocked the modesty of the girl.
And
granting the testimony to be true, of which the jury was
the judge, the employment to which she was enticed was
an efficient school of debauchery of the special immorality
which defendants 'contend the statute was designed to
cover.
Judgment affirmed.

BENNETT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH

No. 603.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 8, 1913.--Decided February 24, 1913.

Hoke v. United States, ante, p'30,8, followed to effect that the White
Slavel'raffic Act of June 25, 1910, is constitutional.
A variancein names cannot prejudice defendant if the allegation in the
indictment and the proof so correspond that the defendant is informed of- the charge and protected against another prosecution
for the sa me offense.
Ylriances as to the name of the woman transported or in the place
where the tickets were procured or as to the number transported, between the indictment and proof of offenses under the White Slave
Traffic Act held not to have prejudiced the defendants and not to
be reversible error.
Instructions to the jury that there is testimony tending to corroborate
the testimony of a witness charged with being an accomplice and
that it is for the jury to consider the force and value of the testimony
and the weight to be given to it, is sufficient to properly leave the
matter with the jury.
194 Fed. Rep. 630, affirmed.

