OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

clusion: that the title acquired by Sage; trustee, was held
by him in trust for the defendant, and that it is now held
upon a like trust by the plaintiff, who took with full notice
and knowledge of the defendant's occupancy and claim.

Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276, 291; Widdicombe v.
Childers, 124 U. S. 400, 405; Duluth & Iron Range Railroad
Co. v. Roy, 173 U. S. 587.
As the state courts proceeded upon the theory that the

second selection gave the better right notwithstanding the
defendant's claim was first in timne, the judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded for ,further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

ROSS v. STEWART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 140. Submitted January 23, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Congress has power to invest a townsite commission with power to
determine contests between rival claimants to lots in a townsite in
Indian lands acquired and thrown open to settlement.
The acts providing for designation, surveying and platting townsites
in the Cherokee lands and disposing thereof plainly show the intent
of Congress to commit the appraisal and disposal of the lots to the
commission created by the acts, subject to supervision by the Secrc
tary of the Interior.
'lhe provisions of the acts do not contemplate the determination of
conflicting possessory claims without inquiry into the merits.
All reasonable presumptions must be indulged in support of the action
of administrative officers to whom the law entrusts proceedings
determining priority of claims; and in the absence of material error
of law, or of misrepresentation or fraud practiced on or by them,
their action should stand approved by the court.

ROSS v. STEWART.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The presumption is that a contest has been commenced in time,,otherwise t would not have been entertained.
Where the party to a contest and his attorney have been notified that
no answer had been filed on his behalf, and they take no steps to
correct this omission, and the case is decided adversely to him, the
failure to file the answer furnishes no ground for avoiding the decision.
One failing to answer raises no issue entitling him to a hearing, and he
cannot afterwards be heard to complain that he was denied a hearing.
A hearing and decision on a contest where the contestant files no
answer after notice is not an ex parte proceeding, but an adversary
proceeding.
Misrepresentation and fraud that will entitle a contestant to open a
decision in a land contest must be such as prevented him from presenting his side of the controversy or the officer deciding it from
considering it. It is not enough to charge falsity in pleadings or
perjury of witnesses. Estes v. Timmins, 199 U. S. 391.
25 Oklahoma, 611, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the title to land in a townsite
of the Cherokee country and the power of the Townsite
Commission to settle contests, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. H. Kornegay for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph C. Stone, Mr. Charles G. Watts and Mr. Jess
W. Watts for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEvAmTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
A lot in the townsite of Sallisaw, in the Cherokee Nation,
is here in dispute. The conflicting claims are both founded
-upon the legislation of Congress providing for the designation, survey and platting of townsites in the Cherokee
lands, and the appraisal and disposal of the lots. Acts,
June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495, 500, c. 517, § 15; May 31,
1900, 31 Stat. 221, 237-238, c. 598; July 1, 1902, 32 Stat.

716, 722, c. 1375, §§ 38-58, 65,

After the townsite was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

designated, surveyed and platted the parties here severally
sought to purchase lot 7 in block 39, each asserting a
preference right by reason, as was alleged, of having a
possessory claim and owning the improvements. Ross'
application was first in the order of presentation, and the
Townsite Commission, which was then charged with the
work of appraisal and disposal, scheduled the lot, to him.
Stewart's application was refused, subject to her right
to contest Ross' claim before the commission, the (late of
the refusal not being shown in this record. She instituted
such a contest, due notice being given to Ross, and the
lot wa's ultimately awarded to her by the Indian Inspector
for the Indian Territory, who in the meantime 1 had been
charged with the duty of completing the work of the
Townsite Commission under the direction and subject to
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. Following
this award a patent, bearing the Secretary's approval, was
issued to Stewart by the principal chief of the Cherokee
Nation conformably to §§ 58 and 59 of the act of 1902.
Ross subsequently commenced this suit in a state court
in Oklahoma (the newly admitted State including the
town of Sallisaw) to have Stewart declared a trustee for
him and to enforce a conveyance. To an amended petition, setting forth the facts just stated and containing
other allegations presently to be mentioned, the defendant interposed a demurrer, which the court sustained.
A judgment for the defendant was entered and was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 25 Oklahoma,
611, whereupon the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
We are asked to say, as was the state court, that the
Townsite Commission was without jurisdiction. to entertain or pass upon the contest resulting from the conflicting
applications to purchase, and that such a controversy
See 11. R. )oc. No. 5, 59t Cong., 1st Seas., p. 721; Sen. Doe.
No. 396, part 4, 59th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 337.

ROSS t. STEWAWY.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

could be determined only in the courts. But, like the
state court, we are unable so to say. No time need be
spent in upholding the power of Congress to invest .the
Townsite Conunission with such authority, for our prior
decisions leave no doubt upon that subject. It is merely
a question of what Congress intended by the legislation
adopted. In this connection it is well to remember that
no individual, even if an occupant and owning the improvements, had more than a possessory claim to the land
to which the legislation was to be applied, and that all
possessory claims were held subject to the superior ownership in fee, which was in the Cherokee tribe. Recognizing
that this was so, and regarding the possessory claimants as
entitled to favorable consideration, Congress made provision for according to them a preference right to purchase
the lots covered by their improvements, and for selling
such lots at public auction if the preference right was not
exercised within a limited period, the sale in either event,
to be for the benefit of the tribe as owner of the fee. In
the act, of 1900 the duties aod authority of the Townsite Commission were stated as follows: " As soon as the
plat of any townsite is approved, the proper commission
shall
.
.
proceed to make the appraisement of' lhe
lots and inprovements, if any, thereon, and after the
approval thereof by the Secretary of the Interior, shall,
under the supervision of such Secretary, proceed to the
disposition and sale of the lots in conformity with any
then existing act of Congress or agreement with the tribe
approved by Congress,
T"....his provision and the
other townsite portions of the acts of 1898 and 1900 became by express reference a part of the act of 1902, with
qualifications not here material, and that act also de-

clared: "All things necessary to carry into effeet the provisions of this Act, n
otherwise herein specifically
provide(d for, shall be (lone undir the authoritv ' t(i
direct ion of the
1ar' of Ithe intrior."
Shwrtly

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

following this legislation the Secretary promulgated regulations for the guidance of the commission in the discharge
of its duties, and gave express directions therein for the
hearing and determination by the commission of contests
between claimants asserting conflicting rights to purchase
the same lot. These regulations remained in force until
after the act of March 3,1905, 33 Stat. 1048, 1059, c. 1479,
when, upon the abolition of the commission, they were
altered and superseded to the extent that the Indian Inspector for the Indian Territory was charged with the duty
of completing the work of the commission under the direction and subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior. It is not suggested that the authority to hear
and determine contests was diminished or enlarged by
this change, and therefore it will suffice to speak only of
the authority of the commission.
The acts of 1898, 1900 and 1902 show very plainly that
it was the purpose of Congress-to commit to the commission the appraisal and disposal of all lots, whether occupied
or vacant, improved or unimproved, save as its work was
to be done under the supervision of the Secretary of ti.e
Interior. More than this, there was an express command
that the commission should proceed "in conformity with
any then existing act of Congress or agreement with the
tribe approved by Congress." This meant that the commission should respect and give effect to the congressional legislation regulatory of the disposal and sale of
the lots. The provisions according preference rights to
possessory claimants and directing sales at auction if
those rights were not exercised within the prescribed
period were a part of that legislation, and conformity to
them necessarily involved an ascertainment of what lots
were held under possessory claims and of who in each
instance was the rightful claimant. True, there was no
direct provision for such an ascertainment, but by necessary implication the duty of making it was cast upon the

ROSS v. STEWART.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

commission to whom the command for conformity was
addressed. Plainly, it was not contemplated that every
claim of a preference right should be granted without inquiry into its merits, or that as between conflicting claims
seasonably presented one should be granted and the other
rejected without ascertaining which was the rightful one.
The suggestion that such controversies were cognizable
only in the courts finds no support in any statutory provision, is opposed to the plain implication of this legislation, and ignores the settled practice of Congress to commit such questions to the determination of administrative
officers. As has been seen, the Secretary of the Interior,
when issuing regulations for the guidance of the commission, took the view that it was to hear and determine such
contests, subject to his supervisory authority, and in our
opinion that was the correct view.
We come then to the further contention that, even conceding the jurisdiction of the administrative officers to
entertain and pass upon the contest, the petition discloses
a case which entitles the plaintiff to call in question their
decision and to insist that the defendant, who obtained a
patent under that decision, be declared a trustee for him
and required to transfer the title to him. The test to
which the petition must be subjected is this: All reasonable
presumptions must be indulged in support of the action
of the officers to whom the law entrusted the proceedings
resulting in the patent, and unless it clearly appears that
they committed some material error of law, or that misrepresentation and fraud were practiced upon them, or
that they themselves were chargeable with fraudulent
practices, and that as a result the patent was issued to the
defendant when it should have been issued to the plaintiff,
their action must stand. Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330,
340; Marquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S, 473; Quinby v. Conlan,
104 U. S. 420, 426; Baldwin v. Starks, 107 U. S, 463; Lee
,v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48; Sanford v. Sarnford, 139 U. S. 642.

()CTOI(BER

TERM, 1912

Opiuion of tile Court.

227 U. S.

The petition cannot be commended as a model. It is
wanting in certainty and sets forth a good many conclusions which have no support in the facts alleged. It is
copied at, length in tile opinion of the state court, and it
will suffice here to state the substance of such parts as
have a bearing upon the arguments advanced to sustain
the contention last stated.
It now is said that the contest was entertained in violation of the established regulations in that it' was not
instituted within the time prescribed. This objection was
not made in the petition, and for aught that there appears
it may have no basis in fact. The regulations limited the
time to ten days after notice of the refusal of the conflicting application to purchase. The petition, although
showing when the defendant's application was presented
an(l when the contest was begun, does not show when her
application was refused or when she was notified. In this
situation the presumption is that the contest was begun
in time, else it would not have been entertained.
The contest was begun by filing with the commission a
written complaint setting forth the grounds of contest,
and the plaintiff was duly served with a copy and notified
that ieshould file, within ter (lays, such answer as he
desired to make. Ife was iJ sail at. that time and employed
an attorney to represent him. The attorney engaged to do
whatever was necessary to protect the plaintiff's rights,
and afterwards assured him that an answer had been filed
and the hearing would come later. A year and a half
thereafter the attorney made inquiry of the Indian Inspeetor who then was completing the work of the commission,
which in the meantime had been abolished, concerning the
contest and was informed that. the lot was "in litigation"
and he would be advised as soon as action was taken, and
later in the same month the inspector informed him that
the plaintiff had forfeited his right by not filing an answer
and a formal decision to that effect would be rendered after

ROSS o. STEWART.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the first of the succeeding month. Information about the
absence of an answer was also given to the plaintiff about
that time. But it does not appear that he or his attorney
took any action then or thereafter either to show that an
answer had been filed or to correct the omission if none
had been filed, although it does appear that more than
seven months elapsed before the patent was issued.
Whether in fact an answer was filed is left uncertain, for
it is alleged that the plaintiff believes one was filed, that
the contest record does not show such a filing, that no
answer is in the files, and "that plaintiff's attorney either
failed to file an answer in the contest proceeding or that
said answer, having been filed, was disregarded." In this
situation it is urged (a) that the inspector, by stating that
the lot was in litigation, caused the plaintiff's attorney to
believe that an answer was on file and thereby misled him;
(b) that if no answer was filed it was an unfortunate
omission for which the plaintiff was not responsible,, and
if one was filed it was wrongfully disregarded; and (c) that
the contest was decided against the piaintiff without a
hearing or an opportunity to be heard.
The statement attributed to the inspector, that the lot
was in litigation, doubtless meant, and only meant, that
the contest was pending and undecided. That was its
natural import, and it was equally true -iveaher the plaintiff had answered or was in default. Therefore, the claim
that his attorney was misled is not even colorable. If
the questioti whether an answer was filed be an open one,
the allegations of the petition bearing thereon are so uncertain that effect must be given to the decision that none
was filed. Not only is there a strong presumption that the
decision was right, but the admission that no answer is in
the files and that the contest record does not show the
filing of one goes far to sustain the decision independently
of the presumption. Thus, the absence of an answer must
be regarded as accounted for only on the theory that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

attorney omitted to file one. Of that it is to be observed,
first, that the omission was by the plaintiff's chosen
representative; second, that there is no suggestion that
it was in any wise attributable to the defendant or the
administrative officers before whom the contest was
pending, and, third, that it was called to the attention of
the plaintiff while it was still within the power of the administrative officers to relieve him from the default, if the
circumstances justified such action, and to proceed to a
hearing and disposition of the contest as if the omission
had not occurred, and yet no effort was made by him to
secure action of that kind. In these circumstances the
failure of the attorney to file an answer furnishes no
ground for avoiding the decision. It is idle to say that the
plaintiff did not have a hearing or an opportunity to be
heard. He was notified of the contest, was served with a
copy of the complaint, and was cited to answer, all in
conformity with the regulations, and he could not have
failed to understand that to make default would be in the
nature of a confession of his adversary's claim and an
abandonment of his own. Failing, as he did, to answer or
interpose any objection to the contest, he raised no issue
entitling him to a hearing His trouble is, not that he was
not'accorded a hearing or an opportunity to be heard, but
that he did not avail himself of the 6pportunities afforded.
In the petition the plaintiff now does what he failed to.
do in the contest, that is, takes issue with the allegations
of the complaint therein by denying that they were true;
and he insists that in this way the petition shows that misrepresentation and fraud were practiced upon the administrative officers whereby the patent was issued to the
defendant when it should have been issued to him. The
insistence cannot be sustained. The contest was not ex
pprte, as were the proceedings involved in United Statea
v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233, 240-243; Sanford v. Sanford, 139

U. S. 642, 644, 650, and. Svor v. Morris, ante, p. 524, but

ROSS v. STEWART.
227 U.S.

'539)

Opinion of the Court.

was an adversary. proceeding to which the plaintiff was ta
party, of which he had due notice, and in which he had
full opportunity to meet and controvert the very allegations he now says were untrue. The question whether
they were true or otherwise is one the decision of which
was committed by law to the administrative officers as a
special tribunal, and they, as is conceded, decided that the
allegations were true, their action being in the nature of
a judicial determination. The applicable rule in such a
case is, that the misrepresentation and fraud which will
entitle the unsuccessful claimant to relief against the decision and resulting patent must be such as have prevented
him from fully. presenting his side of the controversy, or
the officers from fully considering it; and it is not enough
that there may have been false allegations in the pleadings
or that some witness may have sworn falsely. Vance v.
Burbank, 101 U. S. 514, 519; Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48;
Estes v. Timmons, 199 U. S. 391, 396; Greenameyer v.
Coate, 212 U. S. 434, 444; Durango Land & Coal Co. v.
Evans, 80 Fed. Rep. 425, 430.
The petition contains some allegations descriptive of
the complaint in the contest and of the matters set forth
in it, and it is urged that in this way it appears that, upon
her own showing, the defendant did not have such a possessory claim as entitled her to a preference right of purchase, and thereforethat the officers committed an error
of law in sustaining the contest. Of this it seems enough
to say that the petition neither sets forth a copy of the complaint nor purports to give the whole of its substance, and
that upon contrasting what the petition does say of the
complaint with the applicable sections of the act of 1902
it does not appear that the. contest was ill founded. For
aught that is disclosed, the complaint and the proof in
support of it may have fully established the defendant's
right to purchase.
Other c'ontentions advanced in the brief of the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

have been considered and found so far untenable that
their discussion here would serve no useful purpose.
Judgment affirmed.

MATHESON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE FOURTH DIVISION OF THE TERRITORY OF ALASKA.

No. 148. ,Submitted January 24, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Where the jurisdiction is coextensive with the district, multiplication
of places at which courts may be held or mere creation of divisions
does not nullify it. Barrett v. United States, 169 U. S. 231.
Jurors summoned by the District Judge in Alaska before the act of
March 3, 1909, creating a Fourth Division, became effective, to attend the first term of the court in that division when the act did become effective, held properly summoned, as the act did not create a
new tribunal or revoke the power of the District Judges to summon
jurors to attend at any session of the court.
It is the duty of the judge to determine whether non-experts are qualified to express an opinion as to sanity of the accused, and in this
case there does not appear to have been any abuse of discretion.
An instruction that while the burden of proof is on defendant to establish the fact of insanity, the jury cannot convict if they had
reasonable doubt as to his sanity, held proper and sufficient. Davis
v. United States, 160 U. S. 469.
The court properly instructed the jury as to the definition of insanity
and as to what relieves defendant from criminal responsibility by
giving the charge approved in Davis v. United States, 165 U. S. 373.

THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
provisions of the Alaska Code of 1900 and the validity of
a trial and conviction for murder in Alaska, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. James Wickersham and Mr. John F. Dillon for
plaintiff in error.

