BARTELL t% UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

BARTELL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 691.

Argued January 14, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

An indictment to be good under the Constitution and laws of the
United States must advise the accused of the nature and cause of
the accusation sufficiently to enable him to meet the accusation and
prepare for trial and so that, after judgment, he may be able to plead
the record and judgment in bar of further prosecution for the same
offense.
While ordinarily documents essential to the charge of crime must be
sufficiently described to make known the contents thereof, matter
too obscene or indecent to be spread on the record may be referred
to in a manner sufficient to identify it and advise the accused of the
document intended without setting forth its contents; and so held
as to an indictment under ยง 3893 Rev. Stat. for sending obscene
matter through the mails.
The accused may demand a bill of particulars if the reference in the
indictment to a letter too obscene to be published does not sufficiently identify it, and in the absence of such demand a detailed
reference is sufficient.
The accused is entitled to resort to parol evidence on a prosecution for
sending obscene matter through the mail io show that the letter on
which the indictment is based had been the subject-matter of a
former prosecution, and therefore if the letter is too obscene to be
spread on the record it is sufficient if a reference is made thereto in
such detail that it may be identified.
THE facts, which involve the construction of ยง 3893,
Rev. Stat., and the validity of an indictment and conviction thereunder for depositing obscene matter in a postoffice of the United States, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joe Kirby for plaintiff in error submitted:
Under the Fifth and Sixth Amendments the indictment

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

must inform the accused of the charge with the definiteness and certainty recognized by law at the time this
provision was adopted into the Constitution, and must be
sufficient to protect, by the recdrd, the defendant from a
second jeopardy for the same offense.
The defendant must be tried for the offense, and that
alone, of which the grand jury saw fit to accuse him. It
cannot be a blanket indictment so that the prosecuting
officer can select from a series of offenses, where only one
is presented in the indictment, which he will attempt to
prove.
The indictment in this respect does not meet these
requirements.
The defendant must be tried, if at all, for the same
specific offense that the grand jury had in mind when
they returned the indictment, and this must appear from
the record and cannot be left to the sense of honesty of the
prosecution, or the honor of any court official. In re
Bain, 121 U. S. 1.
The indictment must inform him of the nature and
cause of the accusation, and this information must be so
definite as to contain every ingredient of which the crime
is composed so that he may be able, with his witnesses,
to combat the prosecution at every point and, when the
case is concluded, to invoke the protection provided by
Article V against being again placed in jeopardy for the
same offense. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542.
See State v. Terry, 19 S. W. Rep. 206; Rosen v. United
States, 161 U. S. 29.
The date of the alleged offense, as set forth in the indictment, is not in any manner an identification of the
objectionable document which was presented to the grand
jury. The date was wholly immaterial so long as the time
sought to be proven was within the statute of limitations.
United States v. Potter, 56 Fed. Rep. 95.
While the statement that the envelope containing tie

BARTELL v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

letter was addressed to a particular person at a particular
place might be some possible identification of the envelope, it would seem if it were in the mails something
more definite could appear. Was it stamped, postmarked,
or otherwise distinguishable? But how would this in any
manner indentify the letter that is said to have been
objectionable. It must be true that some part of the
letter was not too filthy to appear on the records of
the court. It is reasonable to assume that at least so
much of a description of the document as is found in the
Rosen Case could have been presented.
How is it to be known that the document ultimately
presented to the trial court was the one that was before
the grand jury? To hold such an indictment good, is for
all practical purposes to abolish the constitutional safeguards. If they can be torn down in this case they can
be destroyed in any other, and blanket indictments would
probably become the rule. United States v. Harmon, 34
Fed. Rep. 872; United States v. Read, 73 Fed. Rep. 289.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
It is unnecessary to set forth the obscene matter. Rosen
v. United States, 161 U. S. 29, 34, 40.
Identification by the date of mailing and the address
upon the envelope is sufficient. Tubbs v. United States,
105 Fed. Rep. 59, 60, 61.
There is no danger of a second jeopardy, as it can always
be established by parol evidence what letter was the subject of the prior conviction or acquittal. Bowers v. United
States, 148 Fed. Rep. 379; Dunbar v. United States, 156
U. S. 185, 191; Durland v. United States, 161 U. S. 315;
Rep. 59.
Tubbs v. United States, 105 Fed.
The defendant failed to demand a bill of particullre,
which would have cleai'ed up any uncertainty as to what
letter was the subject of the indictment. Durland v.
United States, 161 U. S. 306, 315; Rosen v,. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

161 U. S. 29, 35, 41; Shaw v. United States, 180 Fed. Rep.
348, 352.
There was no difficulty in demurring to the indictment.
United States v. Bennett, 16 Blatchf. 338, 351.
The letter was sufficiently identified, and the suggestion
that a defendant might be indicted on one indictment
and tried on another is without merit. Price v. United
States, 165 U. S. 311, 315.
MR.JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was indicted under ยง 3893 of the
Revised Statutes, which declares certain matter unmailable, for depositing a letter alleged to be obscene in a
post-office of the United States. Upon trial he was convicted, and was sentenced to a term in the penitentiary.
The case is brought here to review alleged errors in failing
to sustain objections made to the indictment in the court
below.
The indictmeit charged that Bartell did on the twentyfourth of November, 1.911, at Sioux Falls, in the County
of Minnehaha, State of South Dakota, unlawfully, wilfully, knowingly and feloniously deposit in the United
States post-office at Sioux Falls aforesaid, for mailing and
delivery by the post-office establishment of the United
States, certain nonmailable matter, to wit: "A letter
enclosed in an envelope, which said letter was then and
there filthy, obscene, lewd, lascivious and of an indecent
character, and is too filthy, obscene, lewd, offensive and
of such indecent character as to be unfit to be set forth
in this indictment and to be spread at length upon the
records of this Honorable Court. Therefore the Grand
Jurors, aforesaid, do not set forth the same in this indictment; and which said envelope containing said letter was
then and there directed to and addressed as follows: Miss
Zella Delleree, Stevens Point, Wis., he, the said Lester P.

BARTELL v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bartell, then and there well knowing the contents of said
letter and the character thereof, and well knowing the
same to be filthy, obscene, lewd and lascivious a-d of an
indecent character."
The plaintiff in error appeared and demurred to this
indictment for the reasons following:
"I. That the facts stated in said indictment are not
sufficient to and do not constitute a crime.
"II. That no facts are stated sufficient to notify this
defendant of the nature and cause of the accusation for
which he is now placed on trial, as required by Article VI
of the Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States."
The court overruled the demurrer. The same objection, in substance, was taken by motion in arrest of judgment after conviction, and the question presented here
is the alleged insufficiency of the indictment.
It is elementary that an indictment, in order to be good
under the Federal Constitution and laws, shall advise
the accused of the nature and cause of the accusation
against him in order that he may meet the accusation and
prepare for his trial and that, after judgment, he may be
able to plead the record and judgment in bar of further
prosecution for the same offense.
While it is true that prdinarily a document or writing
essential to the charge of crime must be stifficiently described to make known its contents or the substance thereof,
there is a well recognized exception in the pleading of
printed 6o written matter which is alleged to be too obscene or indecent to be spread upon the records of the
court. It is well settled that such matter may be identified by a reference sufficient to advise the accused of the
letter or document intended without setting forth its contents. United States v. Bennett, 16 Blatchf. 338, Federal
Cases, vol. 24, p. 1093, No. 14,57 1; Rosen*. United States,
161 U. S. 29.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The cases were fully reviewed by Mr. Justice Harlan,
speaking for the court, in the Rosen Case, and after stating
the right of the accused to be advised of the nature and
cause of the accusation against him with such reasonable
certainty that he can make his deTense and protect himself
against further prosecution, the doctrine was thus summarized (p. 40):
"This right is not infringed by the omission from the
indictment of -indecent and obscene matter, alleged as
not proper'to be spread upon the records of the court,
provided the crime charged, however general the language
used, is yet so described as reasonably to inform the accused of the nature of the char'e sought to be established
against him; and

.

in such case, the accused may

apply to the court before the trial is entered upon for a;
bill of particulars, showing what parts of the paper would
be relied on by the prosecution as being obscene, lewd,
and lascivious, which motion will be granted or refused,
as the court, in the exercise of a sound legal discretion,
may find necessary to the ends of justice."
We find, upon applying this doctrine to the instant case,
that it was specifically charged that the letter was mailed
by the accused in violation of the statute upon a day
named at the post-office in a town and county named and
within the District; that its contents were well known to
the accused and were so filthy, obscene, lewd -and offensive
and of such indecent character as to be unfit to be spread
upon the record of the court, and that the letter was enclosed in an envelope which was addressed to the person
and, place specified in the indictment. There was no attempt on the part of the accused to require a bill of particulars, giving a more specific description of the letter
or any further identification of it, if that was necessary-to
his defense. UZpder the Federal practice he had a right to
apply for such bill of particulars, and it was within the
judicial discretion of the court to grant such order, if

BARTELL v. UNITEI) STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

necessary for the protection of the rights of the accused,
and to order that the contents of the letter be more fully
brought to the attention of the court, with a view to ascertaining whether a verdict upon such matter as obscene
would be set aside by the court. United States v. Bennett,
supra;Rosen v. United States, supra. In Durlandv. United
States, 161 U. S. 306, 315, it was held that a general description of a letter identified by the time and place of
mailing, when it was mailed in pursuance of a scheme to
defraud, was sufficient, in the absence of a demand for a
bill of particulars.
As to the objection that the charge was so indefinite
that the accused could not plead the record and conviction
in bar of another prosecution, it is sufficient to say that in
such cases it is the right of the accused to resort to parol
testimony to show the subject-matter of the former conviction, and such practice is not infrequently necessary.
United States v. Claflin, 13 Blatchf. 178, 25 Federal Cases,
433, No. 14,798; Dunbar v. United States, 156 U. S. 185;
Tubbs v. United States, 105 Fed. Rep. 59. In the Dunbar
Case it was stated that other proof beside the record might
be required to identify the subject-matter of two indictments, and the rule was laid down as follows (p. 191):
"The rule is that if the description brings the property,
in respect to which the offence is charged, clearly within
the scope of the statute creating the offence, and at the
same time so identifies it as to enable the defendant to
fully prepare his defence, it is sufficient."
The present indictment specifically charged that the
accused had knowingly violated the laws of the United
States by depositing on a day named, in the post-office
specifically named, a letter of such indecent character as
to render it unfit to be set forth in detail, enclosed in an
envelope bearing a definite address. In the absence of a
demand for a bill of particulars we think this description
sufficiently advised the accused of t he iat ure and cause of
VOL. ('cXxNVII-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

the accusation against him. This fact is made more evident when it is found that this record shows no surprise
to the accused in the production of the letter at the trial
and no exception to its introduction in evidence, and
there is no indication that the contents of the letter, when

it was produced, did not warrant the description of it
given in the indictment.
Judgment affirmed.

TROXELL,

ADMINISTRATRIX,

v. DELAWARE,

LACKAWANNA & WESTERN RAILROAD COM-PANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 854.

Argued January 14, 1913.--Decided February 24, 1913.

Where the second suit is upon1 the same cause of action set up in the
first suit, an estoppel by judgment arises in respect to every matter
offered or received in evidence or which night have been offered to
sustain or defeat the claim in controversy; but where the secondi
suit is upon a different claim or demand, 'the prior judgment operates
as an estoppel only as to matters in issue or points controverted and
actually determined in the original suit.
To work an estoppel, the first proceceding and judgment must he a
ba to the second one because it is miatter already adjudie ited lhetween the plarties, and there must be identity of parties ill
the tw,
act ions.
A suit for damages for causing death brought bly the widow ard umrviving children of the deceased under the state law is not on the same
cause of action as one subsequently brought by the widow as admi nistratrix ag inrst the sarme defenda it unIder the Employers' Liability Act, and the judgment (lismissilg tlie c iplai at ill
the first.
actioJi) is iot a1hLa as r.cs jid-t:a tolthe srco)d suit.
Alter t plea of resj.ai'cala has been filed ait conisidercd and the (ac e

