KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. CARL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 16.

Argued October 22, 1912.-Decided March 10, 1913.

Under the Carmack Amendment an interstate carrier comes under
liability not only for its own default but also for loss and damage
upon the line of any connecting carrier. Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186.
Under the Carmack Amendment a stipulation for limitation of liability, if unauthorized as to the initial carrier, is ineffective also as to
a connecting carrier, and if valid as to the initial carrier, is valid as
to a connecting carrier.
The Carmack Amendment does not forbid a limitation of liability in
case of loss or damage to a valuation agreed upon for the purpose of
determining which of two alternative lawful rates shall apply to a
particular shipment.
The Carmack Amendment manifested the purpose of Congress to
bring contracts for interstate shipments under one uniform rule or
law and therefore withdraw t1{em from the influence of state regulation. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491.
An agreement to release a carrier for part of a loss of an interstate shipment due to negligence is no more valid than one for complete exemption, neither is such a contract any'more valid because it rests
on consideration than if it were without consideration; but a declared
value by the shipper for the purpose of determining the applicable
rate based upon valuation is not an exemption from either statutory
or common-law liability.
Under the Act to Regulate Commerce a carrier who has filed rate sheets
which show two rates based upon valuation is legally 'bound to
charge the applicable rate.
A shipper who declares either voluntarily or on request the value of
the article shipped so as -toobtain the lower of several rates based on
valuation is estopped upon plain principles of justice from recovering any greater amount.
A shipper, who has declared a value to get the lower of two rates, cannot be allowed to introduce evidence aliunde so as to recover a larger
amount as the true value; it would encoiage undervaluations and
result in illegal preferences and discriminations.

OCTOBER TERM,

1912.

Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

Where the (lulv; filed tariff sheets show different rates based on valuation, the shipper inust take notice of the applicable rate and actual
want of knowledge is no excuse; his knowledge is conclusively presumed.
A carrier cannot contract with a particular shipper for -n unusual
service unless he inake and publish a rate for such service equally
for all. Chicago & Atol Iby. v. Kirby, 225 1). S. 155.
An administrative rule of the Interstate Commerce Commission is
that valuation and rate are dependent each upon the other.
In this case the valuation agreement of the contract was expressed in
usual form, was conclusive on the shipper, and does not offend the
Carmack Amendment.
91 Arkansas, 97; 121 S. W. Rep. 932, reversed.

ACTION by the holder of a bill of lading issued by the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway for two boxes
and one barrel containing "household goods" received
at Lawton, in what was then the Indian Territory, a
station on the line of the railway company, for transportation to Gentry, Arkansas, a st~Ation on the line of railway
of plaintiff in error. One of the boxes was never delivered,
and the shipper sued to recover its value.
The defense was that the plaintiff had, in order to obtain the lower 6f,two freight rates, shipped the boxes under
an agreement that the goods, in case of a loss, should be
valued at five dollars per hundred-weight, and that it, as
a succeeding carrier in the route, was entitled to the benefit of that limitation of value. The total weight of the
two boxes and barrel was four hundred pounds, and the
weight of the box lost was not over two hundred pounds.
The limitation of liability was in the form of a release
signed by the shipper and was delivered to the primary
carrier on receipt of the bill of lading.
The relevant parts of the bill of lading were in these
words.
"LAWTON, 10-8-1907.
"Received from J. M. Carl, in apparent good order, by
the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the following described packages marked and numbered
as per margin, subject .to the conditions and regulations
of the published tariff of said Company, to be transported
and delivered, after
over the line of this railroad to payment of Freight, in like good order to the next carrier
(if the same are to be forwarded beyond the line of this
Company's road); to be carried to the place of destination;
it being especially agreed that the responsibility of this
Company shall cease at this company's depot at which
the same are to be delivered to such carrier; but this
Company guarantees that the rates of Freight for the
transportation of said packages from the place of shipshall not exceed - per - and charges adment to vanced by this Company, subject to the following conditions:
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It is further especially agreed that for all loss or damage occurring in the transit of said packages the legal
remedy shall be against the particular carrier or forwarder
only in whose custody may be actually at the happening thereof, it being understood that the Chicago,. Rock
Island & Pacific Railway Company assumes no other
responsibility for their safe carriage or safety than may
be incurred on its own road.
*

*.

*

*

*

*

*

.,

Destination:
Gentry, Ark.

Consignee:
J. M. Carl.

Description of Articles.
No.

Weights.
Subject to Correction.

Stamp.

400
127016.

Paid to Apply $3.85

2 Bx. H. H. Goods.
1 Brl. H. H. Goods.

0. R. Val. 5.00 cwt.

_

_

_

R. F. PRETTYMAN, Agent."
VOL. CCXXVII-41

OCTOBER TERM,

1912.

Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

The legend "0. R. Val. 5.00 cwt." on the bill of lading
is an abbreviation for "Owner's released valuation five
dollars per hundredweight," and was intended to connect
with the contract of release, which was in these words:
"LAwTON STATION, 10, 8, 1907.
"In consideration of the price (special Rates on Carloads and first class rates on less quantities) at which the
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company hereby
agrees to transport a quantity of household goods, furniture or emigrants' movables (including live stock, if any
in the car), from Lawton, .. T. Station to Gentry, Ark.
Station, the same being consigned to J. M. Carl. I,the consignor, hereby release the said company, and all
other railroad and transportation companies, over whose
lines the above property may pass to destination, from
all liability from any loss or damage said property may
sustain in excess of $5.00 per 100 lbs., and I hereby guarantee all charges for freight on connection lines to destination.
"J. M. CARL, Consignor.
"N. B.-When household goods, etc., are- shipped at
rate based on valuation of $5.00 per hundred pounds,
agents will require the owner or consignor to sign this
agreement, and when signed same must be kept on file at
forwarding station. Agent must then note on Way-Bill
'Released to valuation of $5.00 per hundred pounds."'
The suit was started before a state Justice of the Peace
and the pleadings were informal. There was a judgment
for $75, which was the uncontradicted full value of the
goods lost. The case was taken to the Circuit Court for
Benton County, where there.was a verdict and a judgment
for the same amount. This judgmeut was, upon a writ
of error, affirmed in the Supreme Colurf of the State, the
case being repotted in 91 ,\rkansas, 97; )21 S. W. IRep. 932.

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The uncontradicted evidence was that two boxes and
a barrel containing household goods were delivered to the
initial carrier, and that the plaintiff in error received
same, but delivered only one of the boxes and the barrel,
and that the value of the box lost was $75; that there were
two rates in effect upon household goods shippbd from
Lawton to Gentry, one based upon a released valuation
of five dollars per hundredweight, and a higher rate upon
such articles not so released, and that the latter rate was
seventy-eight cents per hundred pounds higher than the
released valuation rate, and that these two rates "were
evidenced by tariffs duly filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and published according to law."
The defendant in error testified, over objection; that
th6ugh he could read and write and had signed the release
set out above and had received the bill of lading, he had
neither read them nor asked any questions about them,
and had not been given any information as to the contents of either document, and had no knowledge of the
existence of the two rates. He was also allowed to testify
that if he had known of the difference between the two
rates, and the effect of accepting the lower, he would have
paid the higher rate. There was no evidence tending to
show any misrepresentation made by the company, or of
any deceit, or fraud, or concealment, unless it be inferred
from the fact that the company made no explanation of
the rates or the contents of either the bill of lading. or the
release. The shipper merely said that the bill of lading
was handed to him with the release, which he was asked
to sign. Exceptions were taken to the rulings upon evidence and to certain parts of the charge and for the refusal of the court to grant certain requests.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with whom Mr. James B. McDonough was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Hepburn Act does not prevent a common carrier

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

from making a valid contract limiting its liability in case
of loss to an agreed valuation, when such contract rests
upon a legal consideration.
When Congress enacted this legislation,
it had before it
the rule universally established in both state and Federal
jurisdiction, that a carrier may, by contract, limit its
liability to an agreed valuation in the event of the loss of
articles, particularly. where such agreement, as in this
case, is based upon a valuable consideration. For Federal
cases, see Hart v. Pa. R.R. Co., 1 12 U. S. 331; Liverpool
Steam Co. v. Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 397; Primrose v.
West. Un. Tel. Co., 154 U. S. 1; Chicago Ry. Co. v. Solan,
169 U. S. 133; Cau v. Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 427; Jennings v.
Smith, 106 Fed. Rep. 139; Mo., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Patrick,
144 Fed. Rep. 632.
For the leading cases in the state courts, see Ballon v.
Earle, 17 R. 1. 441; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Sherrod, 84
Alabama, 178; Starnes v. L. & N. R. Co., 91 Tennessee,
516; Ullman v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 112 Wisconsin, 150;
Richmond & D. R. Co. v. Payne, 86 Virginia, 481; Normile
v. Oregon R. & Nay. Co., 41 Oregon, 177; Zouch v. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co., 36 W. Va. 524; Pierce v. Southern Pac.
Co., 120 California, 156; Alair v. Northern Pac. R. Co.,
53 Minnesota, 160; Douglas v. Minnesota T. R. Co., 62
Minnesota, 292; Duntley v. Boston & M. Co., 66 N. Mex.
263.
Stipilations substantially the same as in the case at
bar, releasing the value of property in case of loss to $5.00
per hundred pounds, were upheld in Carleton v. N. Y. C. &
H. R. R. R. Co:, 117 N. Y. Supp. 1021; M., K. & 7,. Ry.
Co. v. McLaughlin, 116 Pac. Rep. 811; M., K. & 7. Ry.
Co. v. Patrick, 144 Fed. Rep. 634; Huguelet v. Warfield, 65
S. E. Rep. 985; Lansing v. N. Y. C. & H. R.R. R. Co., 102
N. Y. Supp. 1092; Hazel v. C., M, & St. P. R. R. Co., 82
Iowa, 477. See also Grenwald v. Barrett, 199 N. Y. 170;
Belger v. Dinsmore, 51 N. Y..166; Magnin v. Dinsmore, 70

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

N. Y. 410; Zimmer v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R. Co., 137 N. Y.
460; Travis v. Wells-Fargo & Co., 74 Atl. Rep. 444; Bernard v. Adams Express Co., 91 N. E. Rep. 325; Fielder &
Turley v. Adams Express Co., 71 S. E. Rep. 99; Blackwell
v. Southern Pacific Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 489; Geo. N. Pierce
Co. v. Wells-Fargo & Co., 189 Fed. Rep. 561. The cases of
St. L. &c. Ry. Co. v. Grayson, 115 S. W. Rep. 933; Schmelzer
v. St. L. & S. F. Ry. Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 649; Southern Pac.
v. Crenshaw Bros., 5 Ga. App. 675, cited and relied upon
by the Supreme Court of Arkansas as supporting its ruling
in this case, do not consider or pass upon the question here
involved.
. The Supreme Court of Arkansas, prior to the case at
bar, held that the Hepburn Act did not prohibit the making of a contract requiring notice of loss or damage as a
condition precedent to a recovery. St. L., I. M. & S. R.
Co. v. Furlow, 89 Arkansas, 404; St. L. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Keller, 90 Arkansas, 308.
The plaintiff, having signed the contract of release, is
conclusively presumed to lave assented to both the contract and bill of lading, and will not be heard to say that
he did not read them or know what they meant. St. L., I.
M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Weakllr, 50 Arkansas, 397; Hutchinson
v. C., St. P., M. & 0. R. R. Co., 37 Minnesota, 524; Coles
v. L. E. & St. L. R. R. Co., 41 111. App. 607; Johnstone v.
R. & D. R. R. Co., 39 So. Car. 55; Western Ry. Co. v.
Harwell, 91 Alabama, 340; Wabash &c. R. R. Co. v. Black,
11 111. App. 465; Hart v. Pa.R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331; John
Hood Co. v. Am. Express Co., 191 Massachusetts, 27;
Black v. Wabash &c. R. R. Co., 111 Illinois, 351; Stewart
v. Cleveland &c. Ry. Co., 21 Ind. App. 218; Atchison &c.
Ry. Co. v. Dill, 48 Kansas, 210; Grace v. Adams, 100 Massachusetts, 505; Davis v. Cent. V. Ry. Co., 66 Vermont,
290; Taylor v. Wier, 162 Fed. Rep. 585; Milligan v. Ill.
Cent. Ry. Co., 36 Iowa, 181; Cau v. T. & P. Ry. Co., 194
U. S. 426.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opifiion of the Court.

227 U. S

To permit the judgment in this case to stand is to set
aside and annul the lawfully published interstate tariffs
of the defendant, and to create the very discrimination
which it is the purpose and intent of the Interstate Commerce Act to prevent. T. & P. Ry. Co. v. Mugg, 202
U. S. 242; Armour Pkg. Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56;
T. & P. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.
The bill of lading and contract of release inure to the
benefit of the connecting carrier and may be availed of by it.
These two documents not only established the agreed
valuation, but by the express terms of the contract of release it inured to the benefit of connecting carriers, within
the rule that a contract may be availed of by one who is
not a party to it, if it was made for his benefit as one of its
expressed objects. Young v. The Key City, 14 Wall. 653;
Central Tr. Co. v. C. J. & M. Ry. Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 500;
Thompkins v. R. R., 102 Georgia, p. 445; Collins v. K. C.
M. & E. Co., 110 Pac. Rep. 734 (Okla.) ; Spear Min.Co. v.
Shinn & Co., 124 S. W. Rep. 1045 (Ark.); Chambers v.
Phila. P. Co., 75 Atl. Rep. 159 (N. J.); Eau Claire L. Co.
v. Banks, 136 Mo. App. 44; Luedecke v. Des Moines C. Co.,
118 N. W. Rep. 456; Bethlehem Iron Co. v. Hoadley, 152
Fed. Rep. 735; Fish v. Bank, 150 Fed. Rep. 524; Whitehill v.W. U. Tel. Co., 136 Fed. Rep. 499.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of the State declined to consider or
pass upon any of the questions made in that court for
reversal except the single question as to whether the plaintiff in error, as the 'final carrier in the route, was entitled to
the benefit of the stipulation in the release signed by the
shipper, releasing the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacifie
Railway, the primary carrier, "and all other Railroad and

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Transportation Companies over whose lines the above
property may pass to destination, from any loss or damage
the property may sustain in excess of five dollars per hundredweight."
The court, after saying that the plaintiff in error "relies
for a reversal on the clause in the contract with the
initial carrier limiting the liability as to value in case of
loss ...
as a stipulation for its benefit as well as for
the benefit of the initial carrier, and bases this contention
on our decisions to that effect," in answer to this contention, said:
"But in making their contention they have not taken
into coilsideration the effect of the Hepburn Amendment
to the Interstate Commerce Act, which became effective
op .une 29th, 1906, a date prior to the time the contract
in question was made."
The provisions of the twentieth section of that act were
then set out, and the court proceeded by saying:
"The undisputed evidence shows that the initial carrier
received the property for transportation from a point
in one State to a point in another State, and the presumption in the absence of evidei ice to the contrary was, as will
be seen from our decisions hereinafter referred to, that
the goods were lost thro.gl the negligence of appellant,
the last, carier.
"The section of the Hepburn Act above quoted makes
the carrier liable 'for any loss, damage, or injury to such
property caused by it, . . . and no contract, receipt, rule or regulation shall exempt such common carrier,
railroad or transportation company from the liability
hereby imnposed.'
"The express terms of the act makes the carrier liable
for any loss ctsed by it, and provides that no contract
shall exempt it from the liability imposed. It is manifest
that the act renders invalid all stipulations designed to
limit liability for losses caused by the carrier. Public

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

policy forbids that a public carrier should by contract
exempt itself from the consequences of its own negligence.
For the same reason a statute may prohibit it from making
stipulations in a contract which provide for such partial
exemption.
"If the initial carrier is prohibited from making a contract limiting its own liability, it is obvious that it could
not make a contract limiting the liability of its connecting
carriers; for the section of the Hepburn Act under' discussion provides that the carrier issuing the bill of lading
may recover from the connecting carrier, on whose line
the loss occurs the amount of the loss it may be required
to pay the owner."
As the shipment was interstate, the contract was controlled by the twentieth section of the act of Congress of
June 29, 1906. The initial carrier under that provision
of the Interstate Commerce Act, as an interstate carrier,
holding itself out to receive shipments from a point upon
its own line in one State to a point in another State upon
the line of a succeeding and connecting carrier, came. under
liability not only for its own default but also fQr loss or
damage upon the line of a connecting carrier in the route:
Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186. Any
stipulation in its own receipt was ineffective in so far as
it was not authorized by the section of the act referred to,
whether intended for its own benefit or that of the succeeding carrier. It is also true that any limitation of liability
contained in its contract which would be valid in its own
behalf would likewise inure to the benefit of its connecting
carrier. The liability of any carrier in the route over
which the articles were routed, for loss or damage, is
that imposed by the act as measured by the original contract of shipment so far as it is valid under the act. This
.,provision of the Interstate Commerce Act has been so
fully considered and decided that we need not go further
into the matter: Adams Express Company v. Croninger,

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S. 491; Chicago &c. Ry. v. Latta, 226 U. S. 519;
Chicago &c. Ry. v. Miller, 226 U. S. 513. That provision,
under the opinions above cited, does not forbid a limitation
of liability in case of loss or damage to -avaluation agreed
upon for the purpose of determining which of two alternative lawful rates shall apply to a particular shipment.
But, it is said that upon the face of the contract of limitation here involved, it is an exemption from liability for
negligence forbidden by the Carmack Amendment, and
that the judgment should therefore be affirmed.
That amendment undoubtedly manifested the purpose
of Congress to bring contracts for interstate shipments
under one uniform rule or law, and therefore, withdraw
them from the influence of state regulation. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, above cited. Every such initial
carrier is required " to issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor," when it receives property for transportation from
one State to another. Such initial carrier is made liable
to the holder of such receipt for any loss or damage
"caused by it," or by any connecting carrier in the route
to whom it shall make delivery. It is then declared that
no contract, receipt, rule or regulation s hall "exempt'" such
a cominoft carrier "from the liability hereby imposed."
In speaking of the "liability" imposed by the provision
referred to, we said, in the Croninger Case (p. 511), that
"the statutory liability, aside from responsibility for the
default of a connecting carrier in the route,is not beyond
the liability imposed by the common law as that body of
law applicable to carriers has been interpreted by this
court as well as many courts of many States:" Referriog
to the exemption forbidden by the ,sJale clause, we said,
that that was "a statutory declaration that a contract
of exemption from liability for negligence is against public
policy and void." Citing Bernard v. Adams Express Co.,
205 Massachusetts, 254, 259, and Greenwald v. Barrett,
190 -,N. Y. 170, 175, and other cases.

OCTOBVR TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Is the contract here involved one for exemption from
liability for negligence and therefore forbidden? An agreement to release such a carrier for part of a loss due to
negligence is no more valid than one whereby there is
complete exemption. Neither is such a contract any
more valid because it rests upon a consideration than if
it was without consideration. A declared value by the
shipper for the purpose of determining the applicable rate,
when the rates are based upon valuation, is not an exemption from any part of its statutory or common-law liability.
The right of the carrier to base rates upon value has been
always regarded as just and reasonable. The principle
that the compensation should bear a reasonable relation
to the risk and responsibility assumed is the settled rule
of the common law. Thus in Gibbon v. Paynton, 4 Burrows, 2298, it was said by Lord Mansfield (p. 2300):
"His warranty and insurance is in respect of the reward he is to receive: and the reward ought to be proportionable to the risque." In the leading case of Hart v.
Pennsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S. 331, the right of the
carrier to adjust the rate to the valuation which the shipper places upon the thing to be transported is the very
basis upon which a limitation of liability in case of loss
or damage is rested. This is an administrative principle
in rate-making recognized as reasonable by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and is the basis upon which
many tariffs filed with the Commission are made. Matter
of Released Rates, 13 I. C. C. Rep. 550.
It follows, therefore, that when the carrier has filed
rate-sheets which show two rates based upon valuation
upon a particular class of traffic, that it is legally bound to
apply that rate which corresponds to the valuation. If
the shipper desires the lower rate, he should disclose the
valuation, for in the absence of knowledge the carrier has
a right to assume that the higher of the rates based upon
value applies. In no other way can it protect itself in its

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right to be compensated in proportion to its insurance risk.
But when a shipper delivers a package for shipment and
declares a ,value, either upon request or voluntarily, and
thecarrier makes a rate accordingly, the shipper is estopped
upon plain principles of justice from recovering, in case
of loss or damage, any greater amount. The same principle applies if the value be declared in the form of a contract. If such a valuation be made in good faith for the
purpose of obtaining tho lower rate applicable to a shipinent of the declared value, there is no exemption from
carrier liability due to negligence forbidden by the statute
when the shipper is limited to a recovery of the value so
declared. The ground upon which such a declared or agreed
value is upheld is that of estoppel. Thus in Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S. 331, 340, 341, it, is stated:
"As a general rule, and in the absence of fraud or imposition, a common carrier is answerable for the loss of a
package of goods though lie is ignorant of its contents, and
though its contents are ever so valuable, iLle does not
makea special acceptance. This is reasonable, because he
can always guard himself by a special acceptance, or by
insisting on beiig informed of the nature and value of

the articles before re(eiving thei.

If the shipper is guilty

of fraud or imposition, by misrepresenting the nature or
value of thtle articles, he destroys his claim to indennity,
because he has attempted to deprive the carrier of the
right to be conipenisated in protportion to the value of the
articles and the consequent risk assumed, and what he
has done has tended to lessen the vigilance the carrier
would otherwise have 1bestowed."
In summing up the view, of the court in the same case
it, wa sai(1 (1p.343):
"'he distinct ground of our (ecision in the case at bar
is. that whei a contract of the kind, signed by the shitpper,
is firly niade, agreeing on the valuation of the property
carried, with the rate of freight based on the condition

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

that the carrier assumes liability only to the extent of the
agreed valuation, even in case of loss or damage by the
negligence of the carrier, the contract will be upheld as a
proper and lawful mode of securing a due proportion between the amo6unt for which the carrier may be responsible
and the freight he receives, and of protecting himself
against extravagant and fanciful valuations."
The valuation declared or agreed upon as evidenced by
the contract of shipment upon which the published tariff
rate is applied, must be conclusive in an action to recover
for loss or damage a greater sum. In saying this we lay
on one side, as not here involved, every question which
might arise when It is shown that the carrier intentionally
connived with the shipper to give him an illegal rate,
thereby causing a discrimination or preference forbidden
by the positive terms of the act of Congress and made
punishable as a crime. To permit such a declared valuation to be overthrown by evidence aliunde the contract,
for the purpose of enabling the shipper to obtain a recovery in a suit for loss or damage in excess of the maximum valuation thus fixed, would both encourage and reward undervaluations and bring about preferences and
discriminations forbidden by the law. Such a result would
neither be just nor conducive to sound morals or wise
policies. The valuation the shipper declares determines
the legal rate where there are two rates based upon vaiuation. He must take notice of the rate applicable, and
actual want of knowledge is no excuse. The rate, when
made out and filed, is notice, and its effect is not lost,
although it is not actually posted in the station: Texas &
Pacific Railway v. -Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Chicago & A.
Railway v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155.
It would open a wide door to fraud and destroy the
uniform operation of the published tariff rate sheets.
When there are two published rates, based upon difference
in value, the legal rate automatically attaches itself to

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the declared or agreed value. Neither the intentional
nor accidental misstatement of the applicable published
rate will bind the carrier or shipper. The lawful rate is
that which the carrier must exact and that which the
shipper must pay. The shipper's knowledge of the lawful
rate is conclusively presumed, and the carrier may not
be required to surrender the goods carried upon the payment of the rate paid, if that was less than the lawful rate,
until the full legal rate has been paid. Texas & Pacific
Railway v. Mugg, supra. Nor is the carrier liable for
damages resulting from a mistake in quoting a rate less
than the full published rate. Illiniois CctiralRailroad,v.
Henderson Eleralor Company, 226 U. S. 441. Nor can a
carrier legally contract with a particular shipper for an
unusual service unless he make and publish a rate for
such service equally open to all.. Chicago & A lion Railway
v. Kirby, supra.
That the valuation and the rate are dependent each
upon the other is an administrative rule applied in reparalion proceediags by -theInterstate Commerce Commission.
Southcrni Oil Company v. Southern Railway Co., 19 I. C. C.
Rep. 79; Miller ((- Lux v. Southern Pacific Company, 20
I. C. C. R el). 129.
In Hart v. Penn. R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331, parole cvidence that, the horses shipped were of a far greater value
than the valuation agreed upon was rejected as incompetent.
rhe presumption is conclusive,' said the court,
" thit if t lie liabilitV had lcen assumed on a valuat ion as
great as that now allege(l, a higher rate of freight would
have been charged. The rate of freight, is indissolubly
)ound up with the valuation."
The difference between two rates upon the same coInmodity based upon valuation is presumably no more than
sufficient to protect the carrier against, the greater amount
of risk he assumes by reason of the difference in value.
When the higher rate is no more than to reasonably insure

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion cf the Court.

227 U. S.

the carrier against the larger responsibility a real choice
of rate is offered and the shipper has no reasonable excuse
for undervaluation. If the margin between the rates is.
unreasonably beyond protection against the larger risk
the shipper may be induced to misrepresent the value to
escape the unreasonably high rate upon the real value.
This would result in permitting the shipper to obtain a
rate to which he is not entitled, and in the carrier escaping
from a portion of its statutory liability. Both the adjustment of -rates upon the class of articles based upon difference in valuation, as well as the acceptance of stipulations
in the carrier's bill of lading which affect the liability declared by the Carmack Amendment, are administrative
duties of the Commission. To the extent that such limitations of liability are not forbidden by law, they become,
when filed, a part of the rate.
In the instant case, we must assume that the difference
between the rates upon household goods of less value than
five dollars per hundredweight and the rate upon the
same class of goods of a higher value. has been fixed upon
this principle. We must for the purpose of this •case
accept the high and low rate as reasonable. If the present
rates upon such goods, as shown in the tariffs filed, are
inadequate to protect the shipper, a remedy can be had
by an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
readjusting the rates to meet the requirements of justice,
alike to shipper and carrier.
Coming now to the application of the principles we
have indicated, we are at once confronted with the suggestion that the contract in this case is not one of valuation. Upon the side of the shipper the pregnant words
are that he thereby "releases the said company from alL
liability for any loss or damage said property may sustain
in excess of $5 per 100 lbs." At the foot and below the
signature of the consignor is a notation addressed to the
company's agent, stating in substance, that when house-

KANSAS SOUTHERN RY. v. CARL.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hold goods are shipped at the rate based on a valuation of
$5 per 100 lbs. the agent will require the owner or consignor to "sign this agreement," and then note on the
bill of lading, -"Released to valuation of $5 per hundred." This was done, showing that the agent understood
that the household goods were shipped upon a valuation
of five dollars per hundred pounds. The tariff sheets filed
with the Commission showed two rates on household
goods, one "when released to five dollars per hundred and
a higher rate when not so released." The rate endorsed
on the bill of lading and paid by the shipper was the lower
rate so prescribed by the rate sheets. The lawful rate
when valued at more than five dollars per hundred was
twenty per cent. higher than the rate under which the
consignor's household goods were shipped. In the light
of the published tariffs and of the rate applied to this
shipment, the two papers, read together, plainly mean that
the household goods included in the two boxes and one
barrel were valued for the purpose of coming under the
lower rate at five dollars per hundred.
The phrase "hereby releases," etc., is said to indicate
not a valuation but a release from liability for a part of
the value. The words are somewhat misleading. Yet
contracts for the limitation of loss to an agreed valuation
are largely in this form. The Commission, which has the
rate sheets of hundreds of railroads including stipulations as to value, treats the topic under the title "Released
Rates." 13 I. C. C. Rep. 550. The phrase has, we may take
notice, come to be a term applied to contracts of shipment
containing in one form or another an agreement to adjust
a loss or damage upon the basis of an agreed or declared
value. It is difficult not to. see, when we read the bill of
lading and the release, with its note, in the light of the
filed rate sheets and the rate paid upon this shipment
corresponding 'to the lower of two rates upon household
goods, that the consignor and the carrier mutually under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

stood that these boxes and this barrel contained household
goods of the average value per hundredweight *of five
dollars. The defendant in'error must be presumed to
have known that he was obtaining a rate based upon a
valuation of five dollars per hundredweight, as provided
by the published tariff. This valuation was conclusive,
and no evidence tending to show an undervaluation was
admissible.
It has been suggested that a rate of five dollars per hundred pounds upon household goods indiscriminately is
arbitrary, and has no reasonable relation to the actual
value. This objection goes to the classification made in
the filed tariff sheets. They place two rates upon household goods valued over and under five dollars per hundred
pounds. This basis has not been regarded by the Commission as either arbitrary or unreasonable. In the
opinion styled "In the rnatter of Released Rates," cited
above, the Commission, among other things, said (p. 564):
"The practice of basing rates upon the condition that

the carrier shall not be responsible for losses due to causes
beyond its Conitrol has received legal sanction. Similarly we
find no impropriety in a graduation of rates in accordance
with the actual values of specific commodities. Houseis
hold goods, for example, differ widely in value, and it'
fair to all that the man who ships goods of low value should
receive the benefit of a lower rate tihan the man who ships
more expensive goods. Rate-making upon this principle
is in every respect legitimate."
Our conclusion is that the -shipping contract does mot
upon its face offend against the statute, and the judgment.
imist, for the errors indicated, be reversed, and the case
reranded for further proceedings riot inconsistent with
this opinion.
MR. ,JSTIcE,HUGHES and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissent.

