'

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL CO.

227 U. S.

165

Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL COMPANY.
MIDVALE STEEL COMPANY v. HARVEY STEEL
COMPANY.
APPEALS

FROM THE COUItT

OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 615, 616. Submitted January 6, 1913.-Decided February 3, 1913.
The construction given to a contract by this court is either authoritatively controlling or conclusively persuasive in a subsequent suit
between the same parties; and so held that the contentions relied
on in this case as to the contract heretofore construed in United
States v. Harvey Steel Co., 196 U. S. 310, are, in the light of that
decision, so frivolous that the judgment of the Court of Claims following it should be affirmed without further argument.
United States v. Harvey Steel Co., 196 U. S. 310, followed to effect that
the Government is liable for royalties on the Harvey process even
though every element thereof was not used on the plates involved in
this action, and even though the contractor furnishing the plates
and who used the process by permission of the United States was not
specifically required to use it.
46 Ct. Cl. 298, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
with the United States for use of a steel hardening process
and the effect of the prior construction thereof by this court
in a suit between the same parties, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James R. Sheffield and Mr. James J. Coggrove for
appellee, in support of motion to affirm.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. Philip M. Ashford for the United States, appellant
in No. 615, in opposition to the motion.
Mr. A. H. Wintersteen, Mr. FredericD. McKenney and
Mr. Frank S. Busser for Midvale Steel Company, appellant in No. 616, also in opposition to the motion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE WHITE

227 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
These appeals are from a judgment in favor of the Harvey Steel Company and against the United States for
$123,467.23. This was the amount of royalty found to be
due to the Harvey Steel Company under a contract, dated
April 12, 1893, to pay royalty on all armor plate treated
by the Harvey process and used by the United States.
The armor plate under which the royalty in question was
allowed was. manufactured for the United States under
four contracts with thb Midvale Steel Company. 46 Ct.
Cls. 298. The Midvale Steel Company, for the protection
of its interests under the contracts, was permitted to
intervene, and it was also allowed to appeal from the
judgment. The case is before us on a motion to affirm
under paragraph 5 of rule 6.
The questions for decision involve the construction of
the contract between the United States and the Harvey
Steel Company., As the meaning of that contract was
passed upon by this court in a previous case between the
same parties (196 U. S. 310) and the construction then
given to the contract is here either authoritatively controlling or conclusively persuasive, we recur to that case
and what was decided in it as the most direct means, of
not only analyzing and disposing of the issues here presented for decision, but moreover of causing it to be apparent .that whatever may have been the original force of
the contentions relied on, they are, in the light of the
previous decision, "so frivolous as not to need further
argument,"
Following tests of armor plate treated by the Harvey
process an option was given to the Government, at the
request of the Navy Department, for the purc hase of the
right to use the process upon vessels the construction of
which had at that time been authorized by Congress. The

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL CO.
227 U. S.

167

Opinion of the Court.

optionwas given on March 3, 1891, and the patent for the
process-No. 460,22-did not issue until September 29,
1891. The Harvey Steel Company, appellee, became the
owner of the patent on October 7, 1891. The process was
defined in the patent as follows:
"1. The herein-described method of producing a decrementally hardened tenacious armor plate, which coiisists
of inclosing a low sted plate between a mass of noncarbonaccous material on one side and a mass of granular
carbonaceous material firmly packed upon the other side
contained in a compartment formed within the heating
chamber of a suitable furnace and in maintaining the said
heating chamber for a predetermined period of time at a.
temperature above the melting point of cast iron, and in
subsequently chilling said plate, whereby a stratum of
steel of prescribed thickness upon the side of the plate
against which said carbonaceous material has been pressed
is made to acquire a heterogeneous crystalline structure
and a condition of excessive hardness upon its exposed
surface and a condit ion of gradually diminishing hardness
as the depth from said surfacc increases."
After further tests the United States entered into an
agreement on March 21, 1892, with the Harvey Steel
C,ompafiy to purchase the right to employ the Harvey
process in Harvcyizing-as it is sometimes ealed-the
armor for twelve designated vessels: Subsequently, on
October 8, 1892, the Harvey process was definitely and
forn)ally adopt'ed !)SThe Navy Department; and, as said
in the opinion In t96 IT. S. p. 314, in pursuance of the coniract of March 2 l, 1892, "the Navy Department required
and received from Harvey a revelation of the secret proeess ttnd iinprovements" used in the treatment of aTmor
plate by the r arvey process. Subsequently, at the request
of the United States, the contract of March 21, 1892, was
abrogated and in its sead a contract wfls entered into on
April 12, 1893. By this contract, the United $tates was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

granted the right to use for the treatment of armor plate
for its vessels the "Harvey process" and any, and all improvements made by the Harvey Steel Company upon
such process, and to use and employ the armor plates
manufactured according to said process. The United
States agreed to pay the Harvey Steel Company a royalty
of one-half cent per pound on the finished plate.
The case in 196 U. S. was brought to recover royalties
alleged to be due to the Harvey Steel Company under the
contract of April 12, 1893, calculated on the weight of
armor supplied to the United States by the Bethlehem
Iron Company and the Carnegie Steel Company. The
Harvey Steel Company obtained judgment in the Court
of Claims, and that judgment was affirmed by this court.
The questions presented and decided were (a) whether
under the contract of 1893 the United States could set up
the invalidity of the patent as a defense; and (b) whether
the United States ought to have been allowed to show that
it had not used the patent, properly construed, although
it had used "the process communicated to it and known in
common speech as the Harvey process." After answering
the first of these propositions in the negative, the court
came to consider the claim asserted under the second
proposition, viz: "that at the time the contract was made
it was supposed that the heat required for the process was
greater than that actually used, that the patent was valid
only for a-process with the greater heat, and that the con-tract covers no more than the patent." In deciding
against this contention, the court said (p. 317):
"But the fact that the parties assumed that the process
used and intended to be used was covered by the patent,
works both ways. It shows that they thought and meant
that the agreement covered and should cover the process
actually used. We think that this can be gathered from
the agreement itself apart from the mere supposition of
the parties. The contract dealt with a process 'known as

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL CO.
227 U. S.

169

Opinion of the Court.

the Harvey process.' It imported the speech of the parties
and the common speech of the time into the description of
the subject matter. The words, Harvey process, commonly are put in quotation marks in the first contract,
thus emphasizing the adoption of common speech. They
mean the process actually used. The contract states that
it is dealing with the same thing that had been the subject
of the former agreement. That, agreement further identified that subject as a process which was tested at the Naval
Ordnance Proving Ground. It also identified it, it is
true, as a pptented process, but, if the incompatibility of
the two marks is more than trivial, as it was regarded by
the court which found the facts with which we have to
deal, the identification by personal familiarity and by
common speech is more pungent and immediate than that
by reference to a document couched in technical terms,
which the very argument for the United States declares
not to have been understood. It is like a reference to
monuments in a deed. As we have said, this identification
by personal experiment and by common speech is carried
forward into the contract in suit. The latter contract
manifests on its face that it is dealing with a process actually in use, which requires the communication of practical knowledge and which further experience may improve."
In concluding the opinion it was observed (pp. 318,
319)-:
"But the fuller the statement should be made the more
fully it would appear that the United States was dealing
with a matter upon which-it had all the knowledge that
any one had, that it was contracting for the use of a process, which, however much it now may be impugned, the
United States would not have used when it did but for
the communications of the claimant, and that it was contracting for the process which it actually used-a process

Which has revolutionized the naval armor of the world."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

This decision plainly refutes the contention now again
urged that the Harvey process of the contract of 1893 is
limited and strictly confined to the method of the patent,
and it is here controlling. Furthermore, in no possible
view do the findings in the present case present facts
which even suggest the possibility of a different construction of the contract than that heretofore given. Those
findings may be thus summarized: The method described
in the patent for "producing a decrementally hardened
tenacious armor plate" consisted in "inclosing a low steel
plate between a mass of noncarbonaceous material on one
side and a mass of granular carbonaceous material firmly
packed upon the other side contained in a compartment
formed within the heating chamber of a suitable furnace,"
etc. The noncarbonaceous material actually used in the
eIarvey process" consisted of sand packed at the back
of the plate to protect the same from the carbonaceous
uaterial and excessive heat, of which the Government
was advised by the patentee by an exhibition of the process with the use of sand prior to the contract of April 12,
1893.
The use of sand was gradually discontinued, because the
same result could be accomplished without it, and some of
the companies 'nanufacturing plates were so advised late
in 1893.
1ime
904 no sand or other noncarbonaceous
inaterial l - heen used by the Carnegie and Bethlehem
companies ni:mnuifacturing armor plate.
The process used by the Midvale Steel Co. in the inanufacture Iand production of armor plate was as follows:
The plate to be carbonized was mounted, face up, on
brick piers about 18 inches high, resting on the car bottom, about 1 foot apart. A row of bricks, 2 high, was
then placed around the plate and the carbonizing material
was put inside of these bricks on the face of the plate and
raised about three-fourths of an inch above the brieks.
Mortar was edged uip on ttw second bricks. Then the

UNITED STATES v. HARVEY STEEL CO.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

second plate was placed on the carbonizing material, face
down. The plates were then run into the furnace and the
fire started.
The brick box containing the carbonaceous material
prevented the same from reaching the back and sides of
the plates, thus accomplishing the same result as with the
sand which was used to protect the back of the plate from
the carbonaceous material and excessive heat as aforesaid.
The contention of the appellants on this branch of the
case was thus stated by the court below in its opinion:
"In the present case the contention of the defendants
and the intervenor is that in the hardening or Harvey
process referred to, one of the elements required was the
use of sand, a non-carbonaceous material packed in the
back of the plates, and that if not so used it cainnot be
contended that the Harvey process was applied by the
Midvale Steel Co. in the process which it used in hardening
the plates under its several contracts with the United
States, though in other respects it concedes that the
Harvey process was substantially used. Its contention is
that it did not use sand. That is to say, that it accomplished the same result Without, as had been accomplished
with sand, and it may be added that the same result was
accomplished without the use of any non-carbonaceous
material in the back of the plates by confining the carbonaceous material within the brick box, as set forth in the
findings."
In view of the construction given to the contract of
1893 by the previous decision, we are of opinion that the
court below did not error in deciding as it did that the
circumstance that sand was used in the back of the plates
in the various tests made by the Government to which
reference has been made and was also employed in the
treatment of the armor plate which was the subject of the
suit decided in 196 U. S., while in the treatment of the
armor plate involved in this suit neither sand nor any

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

other noncarbonaceous material was packed on the side
of the plate which was not to be carbonized, did not entitle the United States to claim that the Harvey process of
the contract of 1893 was not used. As said by the court
below, the Government received all it had bargained for,
since it was not only entitled by the contract to a disclosure of the inventor's process, but to his instructions
and assistance in the practical application of the patent,
and was at liberty to use the process, little or much, in
whole or in part.
The unsoundness of the remaining contention becomes
apparent from its mere statement. The proposition is that
even although the armor plate made for the United States
by the Midvale Steel Company was hardened by the
Harvey process, the obligation to pay royalty as to such
armor does not exist because the United States had not
by its contracts with the Midvale Company specifically
required that company to use the Harvey process. But
under the terms of two of the c6ntracts with the Midvale
Company that company was permitted to use the Harvey
process if desired, while under the other contracts the
process used was required to be satisfactory to the Navy
Department, and under all the contracts the United
States had the right to inspect the process used. Under
the contract of April 12, 1893, the right was conferred upon
the United States to use and employ the" aforesaid Harvey
process in the treatment of armor plates for vessels which
have been since July 18, 1892, or which may hereafter be
authorized by Congress, and to use and employ armor plates
for such vessels manufactured according to said process, paying therefor to the party of the first part a royalty of oneWe
half of one cent per pound of the finished plate."
think the plain meaning of the contract was that the Government should pay royalty when it used armor plate
treated 'according to the Harvey process of the contract.
A firmed.

