JOHNSON v. HOY.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

related to a small island, in a non-navigable river, which
the Land Department of the United States had expressly
refused to survey, requires no other notice than to quote
the following from the opinion (p. 515): "It must also be
noticed that the Government is not a party to this litigation, and nothing we have said is to be construed as a
determination of the power of the Government to order a
survey of this island or of the rights which would result
in case it did make such survey. . . . Our conclusion,
therefore, is that by the law of Nebraska, as interpreted
by its highest court, the riparian proprietors are the owners
of the bed of a stream to the center of the channel; that
the Government, as original proprietor, has the right to
survey and sell any lands, including islands in a river or
other body of water; that if it omits to survey an island
in a stream and refuses, when its attention is called to
the matter, to make any survey thereof, no citizen can
overrule the action of the Department, assume that the
island ought to have been surveyed, and proceed to occupy
it for the purposes of homestead or preemption entry. In
such a case the rights of riparian proprietors are to be preferred to the claims of the settler."
For the reasons given the decree is reversed, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
-with this opinion.
Reversed.
JOHNSON v,. tOY, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE NOIATtIERN )ISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 842.

Argued January 7, 8, 1913.-Decided February 3, 1913.

The writ of habeas corpus is not intended to serve the office of a writ
of error even after verdict, and for stronger reasons is not available
before trial except in rare and exceptional cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The orderly course of a trial should be pursued and usual remedies exhausted even where petitioner attacks the constitutionality of the
act under which he is held. Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420.
Where petitioner bases his petition on the ground that excessive bail is
required, and before decision on the writ furnishes the bail, as the
court can only grant the same relief that the writ was intended to
afford, the appeal from the judgment denying the writ must be
dismissed.

THE facts aro stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin C. Bachraqh for appellant.
Mr. Asststant Attorney General Harr, with whom The
Solicitor General was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
On November 7, 1912, Johnson was indicted for a violation of the White Slave Traffic Act (June 25, 1910, 36 Stat.
825, c. 395). He was arrested and the court fixed his bail
at $30,000 but declined to accept as surety any one who
was indemnified against loss, or to permit the defendant
to deposit cash in lieu of bond. The defendant thereupon
applied for a writ of habeas corpus on the ground (1) that
excessive bail was required, on terms onerous and prohibitive, and (2) that the act under which he had been indicted was unconstitutional and void. After a hearing the
petition was denied and he appealed to this court, where a
motion was made that he be admitted to bail pending the
hearing. This was resisted by the Solicitor General and,
before a decision thereon, was abandoned. On appellant's
motion the case was advanced to be heard with others involving the constitutionality of the same act. The defendant's counsel took part in the argument of that question, January 6, 1913. From an affidavit attached to the
brief of the Government, submitted at that time, it ap-

JOHNSON v. IOY.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pears that, on November 15, 1912, Johnson had given a
bond, which had been approved by the district judge, and
had been released from arrest under the indiitment. The
petitioner insists that the release on bail was known to the
Government when the motion to advance was made, and
not then having been urged he is now entitled to a decision on the constitutional question argued, so that if in
his favor he would avoid re-arrest and trial.
The writ of habeas corpus is not intended to serve the
office of a writ of error even after verdict, and, for still
stronger reasons, it is not available to a defendant before
trial, except in rare and exceptional cases as pointed out
in Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241. This is an effort to
nullify- that rule and to depart from the regular course of
criminal proceedings by securing from this court, in advance, a decision on an issue of law which the defendant
can raise in the District Court, with the right, if convicted,
to a writ of error on any ruling adverse to his contention.
That the orderly course of a trial must be pursued and the
usual remedies exhausted, even where the petitioner attacks on habeas corpus the constitutionality of the statute
under which he was indicted, was decided in Glasgow v.
Moyer, 225 U. S. 420. That and other similar decisions
have so definitely established the general principle as to
leave no room for further discussion. Riggins v. United
States, 199 U. S. 547.
It is claimed, however, that the defendant was required
to give excessive bail, on prohibitive conditions, and that
this fact, in connection with the attack on the validity of
the statute, takes the case out of the general rule and
brings it within the exceptional cases referred to in Ex
parte Royall, 117 U. S, 241, so as to give petitioner the
right to this hearing in adv ance of a trial. But even if it
could be claimed that the facts relied on presented any
reason for allowing him a hearing on the -onstitutionality
of the act at this time, the defendant would not be entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

to the benefit of the writ, because since the appeal he has
given bond in the District Court and has been released
from arrest under the warrant issued on the indictment.
He is no longer in the custody-of the marshal to whom the
writ is addressed, and from whose custody he seeks to be
discharged. The defendant is now at liberty, and having
secured the very relief which the writ of habeas corpus was
intended to afford to those held under warrants issued on
indictments, the appeal must be
Dismissed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOARD OF CHOSEN FREEHOLDERS OF THE COUNTY OF HUDSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 50. Argued November 13, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Congress, by passing the Act to Regulate Commerce, has taken control
of interstate railroads, and having expressly included ferries used in
connection therewith, has destroyed the power of the States to regulate such ferries. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196, distinguished.
Quere: Whether Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, overruled Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196.
An assertion of power by Congress over a subject within its domain
must be treated as coterminous with its authority over the subject,
and leaves no element of the subject to control of the State.
The operation at one time of both the power of Congress and that of
the State over a matter of interstate commerce is inconceivable; the
execution of the greater power takes possession of the field and
leaves nothing upon which the lesser power can operate.

