OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

HARRIS, ALIAS SMITH, AND GREEN v. UNITED
STATES.
ERIMIZ AV

J)

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THIE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 602.

Argued January 7, 8,1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Hoke v. United States, ante, p,308, followed to effect that the White
Slave Traffic Act of 1910 is constitutional.
Bennett v. United States, ante, p. 333, followed to effect that variances
between the indictment and )roof which did not prejudice defendants as to names of women transported for immoral purposes in
violation of the White Slave Traffic Act, are not fatal.
The point of variance between indictment and proof relied on in this
ease not having been made in the trial court or Circuit Court of
Appeals, comes too late when made in this court.
194 Fed. Rep. 634, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality and
construction of the White Slave Act and the validity of
an. indictment and conviction thereunder, are stated in
the opinion.
THE

Mr. Max Levy for plaintiff in error.'
Mr. Assistant Attorney 'General Harr for the United
States.2
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Indictment under the act of June 25, 1910. It cbntains
three counts charging defendants (we shall so call plaintiffs
See abstract of argument for plaintiffs in error in Bennett v. United
States, ante, p. 334.
See abstract 'of argumentr for United States in Hoke v. United
States, ante, p. 313.

HARRIS v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in error and petitioners) with transporting and causing
to be transported in interstate commerce certain named
women, for the purpose of prostitution.
After a demurrer to the indictment was overruled and
trial upon the plea of not guilty, defendants were convicted, and'defendant Harris was sentenced to four years'
imprisonment and defendant Green for one year, both to
pay costs of prosecution, and judgment was entered accordingly. The judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 194 Fed. Rep. 634.
The question of the constitutionality of the law was
raised as in the cases which we have just decided, and
nothing need be added to the opinion expressed in No. 381,
Hoke v. United States, ante, p. 308, and we will pass to the
errors assigned.
It is contended that there is a variance between the
allegations and proof, in that the women transported
were named in the indictment as Nellie Stover and Stella
Larkins and that the proof shows the latter's name was
Estelle Bowles and the right name of Nellie Stover was
Myrtie Watson. The point was not made either in the
trial Court or in the Court of Appeals. It comes, therefore,
too late. But see, however, the opinion in No. 603,
Bennett v. United States, ante, p. 333.
The next point made by defendants is that defendant
Harris was entitled ,to an acquittal because of the insufficiency of the evidence to support a verdict of guilty.
In passing on this contention the Court of "Appeals reviewed the evidence and added its jadgment of. its sufficiency to that of the jury. We refer 'to the opinion of the
court and concur in its comment and conclusion.
Judgment affirmed.

