OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

have been considered and found so far untenable that
their discussion here would serve no useful purpose.
Judgment affirmed.

MATHESON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE FOURTH DIVISION OF THE TERRITORY OF ALASKA.

No. 148. ,Submitted January 24, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Where the jurisdiction is coextensive with the district, multiplication
of places at which courts may be held or mere creation of divisions
does not nullify it. Barrett v. United States, 169 U. S. 231.
Jurors summoned by the District Judge in Alaska before the act of
March 3, 1909, creating a Fourth Division, became effective, to attend the first term of the court in that division when the act did become effective, held properly summoned, as the act did not create a
new tribunal or revoke the power of the District Judges to summon
jurors to attend at any session of the court.
It is the duty of the judge to determine whether non-experts are qualified to express an opinion as to sanity of the accused, and in this
case there does not appear to have been any abuse of discretion.
An instruction that while the burden of proof is on defendant to establish the fact of insanity, the jury cannot convict if they had
reasonable doubt as to his sanity, held proper and sufficient. Davis
v. United States, 160 U. S. 469.
The court properly instructed the jury as to the definition of insanity
and as to what relieves defendant from criminal responsibility by
giving the charge approved in Davis v. United States, 165 U. S. 373.

THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
provisions of the Alaska Code of 1900 and the validity of
a trial and conviction for murder in Alaska, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. James Wickersham and Mr. John F. Dillon for
plaintiff in error.

MATHESON v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S

Opinion of the Court,.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins and Mr. Karl
W. Kirchwey for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

Congress, by the act of June 6, 1900 (31 Stat. 321, 322,
c. 786), established a District Court for Alaska with general
civil and criminal jurisdiction. There were three judges,
who though given jurisdiction over the entire District
were required to reside in that one of the three Divisions
to which they were respectively assigned by the President.
On December 29, 1908, the Grand Jury of the Third
Division indicted Matheson for murder. On the next
(day he was arraigned and entered a plea of not guilty.
Before his case was called for trial, Congress passed the
act of March 3, 1909 (35 Stat. 838, 839, c. 269), providing
fora Fourth Division to be held at Fairbanks by the judge
of the former Third Division. This act was not to become
effective until July 1, 1909, but in preparation for the
first term convened thereunder the District Judge, assigned to the Fourth Division, passed an order, under
which jurors were drawn and summoned in June to attend
at the session of court to be held in July at Fairbanks.
On July 13, during this term, the defendant applied
for and obtained an order to have his witnesses subpcenaed
at the expense of the Government. His case was called
for trial in September. He announced ready, and without
making any question as to tho qualification of the jurors
or the method and regularity of their selection, objected
to the entire panel on the ground that the Judge of the
Trhird Division was without jurisdiction to issue the c:ll
at. a time wheh the Fourth Division had not come into
existence. The objection was overruled. Several of
those on the jury, which tried his case, were taken from
1his panel. After a verdict of guilty and sentence to imprisonment for life the case was brought here by writ of

OCT1IOBER, TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

227 U; S.

error in which complaint is made of the action of the Judge
in allowing a jury to be selected from a panel drawn in
June, before the act creating the Fourth Division became
effective.
The Alaskan Code (June 6, 1900, 31 Stat. 321, 322,
§§ 4 and 5, c. 786), created one District Court with three
judges having general civil and criminal jurisdiction over
the entire District, and authority to hold regular terrhs at
Juneau, St. Michael's and Eagle City and Special terms at
such times and places in the District as they or any of them
might deem expedient. The act of March 3, 1909 (35
Stat. 838, 839, c. 269), in providing for a Fourth Division
did not contemplate an interruption of the functions of
the Judge throughout the entire District, nor did it
destroy the unity of the District Court. But while preserviig unimpaired the power of the court and judges, it
fixed a new place, at which the same District Court must
be held. It did not create a new tribunal, with new officers,
to be organized in a new political division, but it continued
the jurisdiction and power of the Judge to be exercised
anywhere in Alaska. It did not revoke his authority to
summon jurors to attend at any session of the District
Court, whether permitted to be held at Fairbanks under
the act of 1900, or required there to be held after July 1,
under the act of 1909. The principle involved is, in some
of its aspects, like that considered in Rosencrans v. United
States, 165 U. S. 257, where it was said that "jurisdiction
is co-extensive with District and no mere multiplication of
places at which courts are to be held or mere creation of
division nullifies it." Barrett v. United States, 169 U. S.
231, 299; Bird v. United States, 187 U. S. 118. There was
no error in overruling the objection made by the defendant to the panel.
, There are 37 assignments of error, none of which presents a ground requiring a reversal. One relates to the
giving of a charge requested by the defendant; others to

MATHESON v. UNITE]) STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rulings as to which no exception was taken at the time or
as to matters not set out in the assignments and requiring
a search through the record to determine the subject of
the complaint; others to the exclusion of testimony as to
facts subsequently proved.
Those which relate to the refusal of the court to permit
non-experts to express the opinion that the defendant
was insane, until after they had given facts on which it
was based, are without merit. It was the duty of the
judge to determine whether such witnesses had qualified
themselves to give opinion evidence, and there was no
abuse of the court's discretion in passing on these matters
(Turner v. American Security & Trust Co., 213 U. S. 257,
260), but his rulings were favorable to the defendant.
It would serve no useful purpose to discuss the ruling
as to the burden of proof and the definitions of insanity,
since they present no new propositions. In both these
matters the court followed cases in which those subjects
have been fully treated. He instructed the jury that while
the burden of proof was upon the defendant to establish
the fact that he was insane at the time of the killing, yet
they could not convict if they had a reasonable doubt as
to his sanity. Davis v. United States, 160 U. S. 469. His
definition of insanity and as to what would relieve the
defendant of criminal responsibility was in accord with
the principle declared in Davis v. United States, 165 U. S.
373, 378-in fact, the court gave the exact charge there
held to be correct. The case was one peculiarly for the
jury, and finding no error in matter of law, the judgment
must be

Affirmed.

