OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

or otherwise, to discharge the duties of a judge of the court
below. 1 And we furt~her direct that the bill of exceptions
when settled shall be promptly included in a supplementary transcript of record, or the reasons for a failure to
settle the bill, if the judge below finds it impossible to do so,
be certified to this court.
Motion to dismiss or affirm denied without prejudice.

DE BARY & COMPANY v. STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 696.

Motion to affirm submitted January 10, 1913.-Decided January 27, 1913.

Under the Wilson Act of August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, a State may impose a license -for regulating the sale of liquor in original packages
brought from foreign countries, as well as that brought from other
States.
Where a statute refers to "all " liquors transported into a State or
Territory the point of origin is immaterial and the law applies to
liquors alike from other States and from foreign countries.
The intent of Congress in enacting the Wilson Act was to give the
several States power to deal with all liquors coming from outside
to within their respective limits, and this purpose would be defeated
if the act were construed so as not to include liquors from foreign
countries as well as from other States.
An act of Congress, such as the Wilson Act, will not be so construed as
to confer upon foreign producers of an article a right specifically
denied to domestic producers of that article.
130 Louisiana, 1090, affirmed.
See the act of Congress approved January 7, 1913, entitled' "An
act to provide for holding the-District Court of the United States for
Porto Rico -during the absence from the island of the United States district judge and for the trial of cases in the event of the disqualification of
or inability to act by the said judge."

DE BARY v. LOUISIANA.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

TIE facts, which involve the construction of the Wilson
Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. D. Rouse, Mr. William Grant and Mr. William B.
Grant for plaintiff in-error.
Mr. R: G. Pleasant, Attorney General of the State of
.Louisiana, Mr. William W. Westerfield and Mr. Edward
Righfor for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

De Bary & Company seek the reversal of a judgment
for the amount of a license tax (Act No 176 of 1908,
Session Acts of that year, p. 236) for engaging "in the
business of disposing of alcoholic liquors in less quantities
than five gallons." It was conceded below that the business for which the license was exacted consisted only in
the sale in the original packages of foreign wine or liquor,
some of which was imported through the port of New York
and some through the port 9 f New Orleans, a portion of
that which was brouglit into the port of New York having
been there stored and subsequently shipped to New Orleans. The court below held, first, 'that imposing the
license was an exertion by the State not only of its revenue
powers, but of its police authority brought into play for
the purpose of regulating the sale of liquor. In consequence of the provisions of the act of Congress known as
the Wilson Act, August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, chap. 728,
and the decisions of this court interpreting and applying
the same, it was therefore held that the sale of imported
liquor in the original packages was subject to state regulation and hence the license was valid; second, that even if
the Wilson Act did not concern liquor imported from a
foreign country, nevertheless the license was valid be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

cause some of the liquor sold had been shipped to Louisiana from the State of New York after its importation
from a foreign country.
Without considering the second proposition, we think
the construction given to the Wilson Act, upon which
the first proposition rests, was so obviously the result of
the text of that act as interpreted by the decisions of this
court as to leave no room for controversy. Pabst Brewing
Company v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17; American Express
Company v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133; Vance v. Vandercook Co.,
No. 1, 170 U. S.438; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.412; In re
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545. It is true that the controversies
which were passed upon in the cited cases concerned not
liquors imported into the United States from foreign
countries, but only liquors which had been brought in from
one State to another. But this fact cannot be held to
distinguish this case from the previous decisions without
giving effect to a distinction without a difference. To
hold that liquors, brought into a State from a foreign
country do not become subject to the state police power
until sold in the original packages would certainly conflict with the command of the statute that "all" liquors
"transported into any State or Territory or remaining
therein for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall
upon arrival in such State or Territory" be subject "to
the operation and effect of the laws of such State or Territory as though such liquors or liquids had been produced
in such State or Territory and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in original
packages or otherwisei' The word "all" causes a corisideration of the point of origin of the liquors transported
to be wholly negligible, and this irresistible conclusion as
to the meaning of the text is rendered if possible clearer by
a consideration of the intent of Congress in enacting the
Wilson Law. In reason it is certain that the purpose which
led to the enactment of the law was to give the several

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. SABINE TRAM CO.
227 U. S.

111

Syllabus.

States power to deal with all liquors coming from outside
their limits upon arrival and before sale, thus rendering
the state police authority more complete and efficacious
on the subject; a purpose which would be plainly set at
naught by exempting liquors brought into a State from a
foreign country from the operation of the statute. Indeed
to adopt the construction urged would not only give rise
to the contradictions which the analysis of the contentibns
thus make plain, but would compel us to say that Congress
intended by the Wilson Law to confer upon foreign producers of liquor a right which was specifically denied to
liquor of domestic production.
Affirmed.

TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY
v. SABINE TRAM COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 93.

Argued December 17, 18, 1912.-Decided January 27, 1913.

Shipments of lumber on local bills of lading from one point in a State
to another point in the same State destined from the beginning for
export, under the circumstances of this case, .are foreign and not
intrastate commerce. Southern Pacific Terminal v. Interstate Com-

merce Commission, 219 U. S. 498; Ohio Railroad Commission v.
Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, followed. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry.
v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403, distinguished.
Merchandise destined for export acquires the character of foreign commerce as soon as actually started for its destination or delivered to a
carrier for transportation, Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, and while the
transportation should be continuous it need not be by or through
the initial carrier.
It is the nature of the traffic and not its accidents which determines
whether it is intrastate or foreign.

