OCTOBER TERM, 1912).
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

But we are asked to look behind the language of the
statute and to assume that its effect is to impose the additional liability in the absence of bad faith. That is, we
are to take the statute as including what it expressly excludes-as allowing what it explicitly denies. The act
does not make the mere refusal to pay sufficient evidence
of bad faith so as to justify the added recovery; it requires
that the bad faith be shown and that the consequent
additional loss be shown. And the state court so construed the statute in the application that wasmade of it
in the present case.
The trial court adjudged that the refusal of the coinpany to pay the amount of the policy was not in good
faith, and the amount allowed was determined to be
a reasonable conipensation for the resulting damage.
The evidence before the court--save a small portion of
it-is not in the record. The fact must be taken to be as
found. The statute, judged by its provisions as they have
been construed and applied, cannot be regarded as an
impairment of the obligation of the contract.
Judgment affirmed.

BACON, DOING BUSINESS AS WABASH ELEVATOR, v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 76.

Argued December 6, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

The denial to the States of tie power to tax articles actually moving in
interstate commerce rests upon the supremacy of the Federal power
to regulate that commerce, and its postulate is necessary freedom of
that commerce from the burden of local taxation.
The State cannot impose a tax upon articles moving in interstate commerce on the ground that such articles belong to its own citizens.

BACON v. ILLINOIS.
227 U. S.

Statement of tihe Case.

They, as well as others, are under the protection of the commerce
clause of the Constitution.
The test of exemption from state taxation is not citizenship of the
owner but whether or not.the articles atlempted to be taxed are
actually moving in interstate commerce.
Property brought from another State ind withdrawn from the carrier
and held by the owner with full power of disposition becomes subject to the local taxing power notwithstanding the owner may intend,
to ultimately forward it to a destination beyond the State.
Goods within the State may be made the subject of a non-discriminatory
tax though brought from anothor State and held by the consignee in
the originli package. lVoodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123.
243 Illinois, 313, affirmed.
THIS is a writ of error to review a judgment of. the
Supreme Court of the. State of Illinois, which affirmed ti
judgment for the amount .of ,itax assessed' against the
plaintiff in error for personal property in "he year 1907.
The contention that the assessment was in violation o
Art. I, ยง,8, clause 3, of the Federal Constitution in that il
was laid upon a subject of interstate commerce, was overruled by the state court. 243 Illinois, 313.
The facts were agreed to, as follows:
"That the defendant, E..R. Bacon, had on the 1st day
of, April, 1907, and for many years prior to said date, his
residence and domicile in the Town of Lake View in the
County of Cook and State of Illinois; that the defendant
E. R. Bacon, .on the 1st day of April, 1907, and prior
thereto occupied and controlled a certain private grain
elevator known as Wabash Elevator and that the said
grain elevator was located at 33rd and Waterville Streets
in the Town of South Town in the City of Chicago, County
of Cook and State of Illinois; that the only personal
property in the Town of South Town owned by the defendant on the 1st day of April, 1907, was certain grain
stored in the said elevator above mentioned and certain
personal property used by him in hi: business office
located at 234. La Salle street in the City of Chicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

Illinois, and that the said business office and the said
personal property used by said defendant therein was not
then a part of or in any way connected with said grain
elevator; that the said defendant, E. R. Bacon, has paid
the tax assessed on April 1st, 1907, on all the personal
property used by him in his said business office located at
234 La Salle street in the City of Chicago, Illinois; that
the said defendant, E. R. Bacon, has paid the tax assessed
on April 1st, 1907, on all his personal property located in
the Town of South Town, except the tax assessed on the
grain, which was stored in the said Wabash Elevator on
the 1st day of April, 1907; that all of said grain stored in
the said Wabash Elevator on the 1st of April, 1907, was
sold to the defendant, E. R. Bacon, by various persons
domiciled in and residents of various States in the southern
and western portions of the United States, and that the
said persons who sold the said grain to the said defendant,
E. R. Bacon, did, prior to the said sale, and the shipment
of said grain as hereinafter mentioned, enter into certain
contracts with certain railroad companies for the transportation of said grain to the cities of New York and
Philadelphia and various other cities in the eastern portions of the United States, all of said cities being outside
of the State of Illinois, in and by which said contracts the
sftid persons reserved the right to the owners of. the said
grain to remove said grain from the cars of the said railroad
companies at the City of Chicago, Illinois, for the mere
temporary purposes of inspecting, weighing, cleaning,
clipping, drying, sacking, grading or mixing, or changing
the ownership, consignee or destination of said grain;
that after the making of the said contracts by the original
vendors of the said grain and the said railroad companies, the said original vendors delivered to the said
railroad companies, under and in accordance with the
said contracts, the said grain for transportation to
said cities of New York, Philadelphia and the said

BACON v. ILLINOIS.
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

divers other cities specified in the said contracts of shipment.
"That the said E. R. Bacon was, prior to and on
April 1st, 1907, represented in the cities of New York,
Philadelphia, and the said divers other cities in the said
eastern portions of the United States by various agents,
by and through whom he disposed of grain and other commodities on the eastern markets, and that all of the said
grain above mentioned was purchased by him as aforesaid
for the sole and only purpose of being sold and disposed of
by and through his said agents in the aforesaid eastern
cities, and that the said grain or any portion thereof was
not at any time intended, by said original owners nor by
said E. R. Bacon, for use; sale or-dispositioA in the State
of Illinois.
"That at the time the said grain was sold to the said
defendant, E. R. Bacon, by the said original vendors
thereof domiciled in and residents of said southern and
western portions of the United States, his sole, and only intention regarding the said grain was that all of the said
grain should be transported and carried from the place of
its said original consignment to said railroad companies
to the said points of destination named in the said contracts of shipmeht entered into between the said original
vendors of said grain and the said railroad companies, as
he'reinbefore mentioned;.
"That the said grain was sold to the defendant, E. R.
Bacon, by the original vendors of said grain along with the
existing contracts of shipment between the said original
vendors and the said railroad companies, and along with
the said privilege of removing said grain from the said
cars of the said railroad companies, which said privilege
was reserved to the owner of the said grain in the manner
and for .the purposes hereinbefore mentioned; that in
pursuance of the privilege which the, d rfendant, E. R.
Bacon, was entitled to under said contracts of shipment,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

as the owner of said grain, he removed said grain from the
said railroad -cars and placed the same in his said private
Wabash Elevator for the sole purposes of inspecting,
weighing, cleaning, clipping,- drying, sacking, grading and
mixing, as specified in said contracts of shipment, and not
for the purposes of changing the ownership, consignee or
destination of said grain; and that said grain remained
in said elevator for only such -time as was reasonably
necessary for the purposes of inspecting, weighing, cleaning, clipping, drying, sacking, grading and mixing; and
that immediately after said grain had been inspected,
weighed, cleaned, clipped, dried, sacked, graded and
mixed, it was turned over again to the said railroad companies for shipment to the said eastern cities in accordance
with the said provisions of the said original contracts of
shipment entered into between the said original vendors
of said grain and the said railroad companies, aid that the
said grain was thereupon forwarded by said railroad companies to its said original points of destination.
"That the said grain so placed and contained in the
said elevator was not, nor was any part thereof, at any
time on, before 6r after the 1st day of April, 1907, sold or
disposed of or consumed in the State of Illinois, but that
said grain and each and every part thereof, was transpofted out of said State to the points of destinatipn, and
in the manner and form aforesaid;
"That on the 1st day of April, 1907, the Board of Assessors of Cook County, Illinois, assessed a tax against
the said E. R. Bacon on the said grain contained in the
said Wabash Elevator on the said 1st day of April, 1907,
on a valuation of $5,000 which' was established by the
Board of Review and which was equalized by the State
Board of Equalization and that the tax levied thereon
against the defendant, E. R. Bacon, for the year 1907,
amounts to $360; Which is the tax to recover which this
suit is brought; that the defendant owns certain personal

BACON v. ILLINOIS.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

property in the town of Lake View, County of Cook and
State of Illinois, and that said personal property is contained in his said domicile and residence, and that the
said defendant has heretofore paid all the taxes assessed
on the said personal property on the said' 1st day of April,
1907, and that the said defendant, E. R. Bacon, owned,
on the 1st day of April, 1907, no other personal property
taxable'by the taxing bodies of the State of Illinois other
than that above mentioned."
Mr. Walter Bachrach, with whom Mr. Moritz Rosenthal
and Mr. Joseph W. Moses were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The grain taxed was a subject of interstate commerce
at the time the assessment was made and was, therefore,
by virtue of Art. I, ยง 8, clause 3, of the Constitution of
the United States, immune from taxation by the state
taxing bodies.
The temporary detention of the grain while in transit
without the intention of abandoning the original movement beyond the limits of the State, which movement was
ultimately completed, did not deprive the transportation
of the character Qf interstate commerce. Coe v. Errol, 62
N. H. 303, aff'd 116 U. S. 517; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1; Conn.
River Lumber Co. v. Columbia, 62 N. H. 286; Prairie Oil
Co. v. Ehrhardt, 244 Illinois, 634,; State v. Engle, 5 Vroom
(N. J.), 425; State v. Corrigan, 10 Vroom (N. J.), 36;
Berwind Coal Co. v. Jersey City, 75 N. J. L. 76; Burlington
Lumber Co. v. Willets, 118 Illinois, 559.
The character of a shipment, whether local or interstate, is not affected by a tra nsfer of the title duritng the
transportation. Gulf, Colo. &c. -R. R. Co. v. Texas, 204
I. S.403; Conn. River Lumber Co. v. Columbia, 62 N' H.
286.
Cases holding that property which is detained within

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. 8.

the State on its interstate journey is taxable, are distinguishable from the one at bar and may be classified as
follows:
Where the produce was grown in the taxing State and
had never been out of that State but was intended for
exportation by the owner. Coe v. Errol, supra; Diamond
Mlatch Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 82.
WN-here the property, though coming from another State,
was being held in actual storage to be removed for use at
a more profitable time.
To be held until orders for it were taken. Susquehanna
Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 184 Fed. Rep. 941; Lehigh Coal
Co. v. Junction, 75 N. J. L. 922.
Until the owner desired to use it in his own business.
Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, supra; Burlington Lumber Co. v. Willets, 118 Illinois, 559.
I Until customers made their selection from goods being
detained. Am. Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S.
500.
Where there was not a through shipment and any
further movement required a new specification of the
goods and new forwarding orders. General Oil Co. v.
Crain, 209 U. S. 211.
Where the goods were partially for sale within the
taxing State and the part to be there sold was unascertained. Am. Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, supra.
Where the ,goods had come to rest in the State of their
ultimate destination. Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622;
Pittsburg Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577.
Mr. Louis J. Behan and Mr. Gustavus J. Tatge, with
whom Mr. FrancisS., Wilson was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

BACON v. ILLINOIS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Did the enforcement of the local tax upon the grain in
the elevator of the plaintiff in error amount to an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce?
The Supreme Court of Illinois was of the view that if
the grain was in transit in interstate commerce it was
exempt from local taxation. In its opinion, that court said:
"The sole question presented by this record is, was the
grain upon which the tax was levied in transit on April 1,
1907? If it was so in transit it was not liable to be taxed
while passing through the State to its destination. On
the other hand, if it was not in transit but had a situs in
this State it was subject to taxation under state authority." In this view of the issue, the court sustained the
recovery of the amount of the tax.
It is now contended, however, by the defendant in error
that the question thus defined was an inmmaterial one;
that even if the property was in transit and was the
subject of interstate commerce, it was nevertheless liable
to assessment, in common with the other personal property of the plaintiff in error, because he was a resident
of the State and the property was within the limits of the
county where the assessment was made.
This argument proceeds upon a misconception of the
ground upon which the power to tax articles actually
moving in interstate transportation is denied to the
States. That denial rests upon the supremacy of the
Federal power to regulate interstate commerce. Its postulate is the necessary freedom of that commerce from the
burden of such local exactions as are inconsistent with the
control and protection of that power. The fact that such
a burden is sought to be imposed by the State of the
domicile of the owner, upon property moving in interstate
commerce, creates no exception. That State enjoys no
prerogative to make levy upon such property passing
through it, because it may belong to its citizens. They,
as well as others, are under the shelter of the commerec

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

clause. The question is determined not by the residence
of the owner but by the nature and effect of the particular
state action with respect to a subject which has come under
the sway of a paramount authority.
This is clearly shown by the reasoning of the decisions
which define the limits of the state taxing power with
respect to property about to leave the State of its origin
or while it is on its way to its destination in another
State. In Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, the question was
whether the products of a State, in that case timber cut
in the forests of New Itampshire, though intended for
exportation to another State and partially prepared for
that purpose by being deposited at a place or port of
shipment, was liable to be taxed like other property
within 'the State. The claim of imnuunity by reason of
the fact that it was owned by non-residents -was at once
disposed of. "If not exempt fron taxation for other
reasons," said the court (id., p. 524), "it cannot be exempt by reason of being owned by non-residents of the
State. We take it to be a point settled beyond all contradiction or question, that a State has jurisdiction of all
persons and things within its territory which do not belong
to some other jurisdiction." The case was put upon the
same basis as though the timber had been owned by
residents of New Hampshire, and the question was treated
as'being one with respect to the point of time at which
goods produced -within the State, which are the subject of
exportation to anotheV State, cease to be liable to state
taxation. It was concluded that these artieles couild be
taxed by the State until, but not after, they had been
aetmlly started in the course of transportation to another
St ate or had been committed to a carrier for that purpose.
The court said: "This question does not present the
predicament of goods in course of transportation through
a State, though detained for a time within the State by
low water or other causes of delay, as was the case of the

BACON i. ILLINOIS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

logs cut in the State of Maine, the tax on which was abated
by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire. Such goods
are already in the course of commercial transportation,
and are clearly under the protection of the Constitution.
And so, we think, would the goods in question be when
actually started in the course or transportation to another
State, or delivered to a carrier for such transportation."
(Id., p. 525.)
After pointing out the importance of clearly defining,
so as to avoid all question, the time when state jurisdiction
over the commodities of commerce begins and ends, and
after commenting on the established rule as to the power
of taxation with respect to goods which had come to their
place of rest within the State, for disposal and use (Woodruff v. Parhan, 8 Wall. 123; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.
622), the court thus restated its conclusion, in language
applicable generally to the products of the State without distinction with respect to ownership by residents or
non-residents: "But no definite rule has been adopted
with regard to the point of time at which the taxing power
of the State ceases as to goods exported to a foreign
country or to another State. What we have already said,
however, in relation to the products of a State intended
for exportation to another State will indicate the view
which seems to us the sound one on that subject, namely,
that such goods do not cease to be part of the general mass
of property in the State, subject, as such, to its jurisdiction, and to taxation in the usual way, until they have
been shipped, or entered with a common carrier for transportation to another State, or have been started upon
such transportation in a continuous route or journey.
We think that this must be the true rule on the subject.
It seems to us untenable to hold that a crop or a herd is
exempt from taxation merely because it is, by its owner,
intended for exportation. If such were the rule in many
States there would be nothing but the lands and real
VOL. ccxxvii-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

estate to bear the taxes. Some of the Western States
produce very little except wheat and corn, most of which
is intended for export; and so of cotton in the Southern
States. Certainly, as long as these products are on the
lands which produce them, they are part of the general
property of the State. And so we think they continue to
be until they have entered upon their final journey for
leaving the State and going into another State." (Id.,
pp. 527, 528.)
In General Oil Company v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211, the
owner of the property, which was sought to be subjected
to an inspection tax in Tennessee, was a Tennessee corporation. The property was oil contained in the company's tanks at Memphis. It was contended that the oil
in these tanks was in transit from the place of manufacture
in Pennsylvania to the place of sale in Arkansas and that
the holding of it in Memphis was merely for the purpose
of separation, distribution and reshipment, and was for
no longer time than required by the nature of the business
and the exigencies of transportation. The court considered the question from the standpoint of the general power
of the State to tax. The oil was held to be taxable, but not
upon the ground that its owner was domiciled in Tennessee. It was recognized that if the oil were actually in
transit it would not be taxable. But it was found not to
be in movement through the State; it had reached the
destination of its first shipment and was held at Memphis
for the business purposes and profits of the company.
The principle applied was that announced in American
Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500. See Kelley v.
Rhoads, 188 U. S.1, 5, 7; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon,
188 U. 8. 82, 93-96.
We coine then to the question whether the grain, here
involved, was moving in interstate commerce so that the
imposition of the local t'tx may be said to be repugnant
to the Federal power.

BACON v. ILLINOIS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The following facts are shown by the agreed statement:
The grain had been shipped by the original owners who
were residents of southern and western States, under contracts for its transportation to New York, Philadelphia
and other eastern cities which reserved to the owners the
right to remove it from the cars at Chicago "for the mere
temporary purposes of inspecting, weighing, cleaning, clipping, drying, sacking, grading or mixing, or changing the
ownership, consignee or destination" thereof. While the
grain was in transit it was purchased by Bacon, the plaintiff in error, who succeeded to the rights of the vendors
under the contracts of shipment. He was represented at
the points of destination ky agents through whom he disposed of grain and other commodities on the eastern
markets, and the grain in question was purchased by him
solely for the purpose of being sold in this way and with
the intention to forward it according to the shipping contracts; it was not his intention to dispose of it in Illinois.
Upon the arrival of the grain in Chicago, Bacon availed
himself of the privilege reserved and removed it from
the cars to his private elevator. This removal, it is said
in the agreed statement of facts, was for the sole purposes
of inspecting, weighing, grading, mixing, etc., and not
for the purpose of changing its ownership, consignee or
destination. It is added that the grain remained in the
elevator only for such time as was reasonably necessary
for the purposes above mentioned, and that immediately
after these had been accomplished it was turned over to
the railroad companies and was forwarded by them to
the eastern cities in accordance with the original contracts
of transportation. No part of the grain was sold or consumed in Illinois. It was while it was in Bacon's elevator
in Chicago that it was included in the assessment as a part
of his personal property.
But neither the fact that the grain had come from outside the State nor the intention of the owner to send it to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

another State and there to dispose of it can be deemed
controlling when the taxing power of the State of Illinois
is concerned. The property was held by the plaintiff in
error in Chicago for his own purposes and with full power
of disposition. It was not being actually transported and
it was not held by carriers for transportation. The plaintiff in error had withdrawn it from the carriers. The purpose of the withdrawal did not alter the fact that it had
ceased to be transported and had been placed in his hands.
He had the privilege of continuing the transportation
under the shipping contracts, but of this he might avail
himself or not as he chose. He might sell the grain in
Illinois or forward it as he saw fit. It was in his possession with the control of absolute ownership. He intended
to forward the grain after it had been inspected, graded,
etc., but this intention, while the grain remained in his
keeping and before it had been actually committed to the
carriers for transportation, did not make it immune from
local taxation. He had established a local facility in
Chicago for his own benefit and while, through its employment, the grain was there at rest, there was no reason
why it should not be included with his other property
within the State in an assessment for taxation which was
made in the usual way without discrimination. Woodruff
v. Parham,supra; Brown v. Houston, supra; Coe v. Errol,
supra; Pittsburgh & Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S.
577; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, supra; American
Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, supra; General Oil Co. v. Crain,
supra.
The question, it should be observed, is not with respect
to the extent of the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, but whether a particular exercise of state
power in view of its nature and operation must be deemed
to be in conflict with this paramount authority. American
Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, supra, pp. 521, 522. Thus,
goods, within the State may be made the subjectof a

BACON v. ILLINOIS.
227 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

non-discriminatory tax though brought from another
State and held by the consignee for sale in the original
packages. Woodruff v. Parham, supra. In Brown v.
Houston, supra, the coal on which the local tax was sustained had not been unloaded, but was lying in the boats
in which it had been brought into the State and from
which it was offered for sale. In Pittsburgh & Southern
Coal Co. v. Bates, supra,.coal had been shipped from Pittsburgh to Baton Rouge in barges which, to accommodate
the owner's business, had been moored about nine miles
above the point of destination. The coal while remaining
on the barges under these conditions was held subject
to taxation. In General Oil Co. v. Crain, supra, the oil
which had been brought from Pennsylvania to Memphis,
a distributing point, was held in tanks, one of which was
kept for oil for which orders had been received from
Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi prior to the shipment
from Pennsylvania, and which had been shipped especially
to fill such orders. The tank was marked "Oil Already
Sold in Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi." The local
tax upon this oil, which remained in Tennessee only long
enough (a few days) to be properly distributed according
to the orders, was sustained.
In the present case the property was held within the
State for purposes deemed by the owner to be beneficial;
it was not in actual transportation; and there was nothing
inconsistent with the Federal authority in compelling the
plaintiff in error to bear with respect to it, in common
with other property in the State, his share of the expenses
of the local government.
Judgment affirmed.

