OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

used in the statute, that is, brought forward and made a
ground of decision. The statutes under which the officers
of the United States acted were concededly valid, and the
authority exerted was lawful and within the powers of the
officers, if the facts justified their action. The petitioner's
real attack upon the action of the Secretary and Commissioner was because the facts shown did not warrant
the exercise of the power given by law. The decision of
that issue, upon which it is clear the case turned, neither
involved nor decided the questions which make the case
appealable to this court under the fifth clause of § 250 of
the Judicial Code.
It follows that the petitionfor writ of error must be denied.

UNITED STATES EX REL. FOREMAN v. MEYER,
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted January 27, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, ante, p. 445, followed as to the construction of subd. 5 of § 250 of Judicial Code regulating the review
by this court of judgments of the Court of Appeals of the District

of Columbia.
The validity and scope of the authority of an officer of the United

States is not drawn in question where the controversy is confined to
detarmining whether the facts under which he can exercise that
authority do or do not exist.
Writ of error to review 38 App. D. C. 472, denied.

facts, which involve the construction of § 250 of
the Judicial Code of 1911 and the jurisdiction of this
THE

FOREMAN v. MEYER.
227 tT. 9.

Opinion of the Court,

-court to review judgments of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Patrick H. Loughran for petitioner.
The Solicitor General, Mr. Clarence R. Wilson, United
States Attorney, and Mr. Reginald S. Huidekoper in opposition.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

Foreman filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia for a writ of mandamus to compel
the Secretary of the Navy to record his name upQn the
register of retired officers of the Navy as a paymaster's
clerk from the twenty-seventh of June, 1910. An answer
having been filed, to which the petitioner interposed a demurrer, the Supreme Court, upon the petitioner electing
to stand on his demurrer, entered an order of dismissal,
which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals (38 App.
D. C. 472). A writ of error to this court having been
refused by the Court of Appeals, this petition was filed
here.
The petitioner claimed that he was an officer below the
rank of vice-admiral, sixty-two years old, and entitled,
under § 1444 of the Revised Statutes, to be retired from
active service, and also claimed that he was entitled to
the benefits of the act of June 24, 1910 (36 Stat. 605, 606,
c. 378), providing that all paymasters' clerks shall, while
holding appointment in accordance with law, receive
pay and allowance and have the same rights of retirement as warrant officers of like length of service in the
Navy.
It appears that the petitioner was appointed paymaster's clerk in 1893 for duty at the Navy Pay Office at

OCTOBER TERM.,

1912.

Opinion of the Court.

227 U. A

San Francisco, California, which was and is a purchasing
paymaster's office, where he continued until November 20,
1908, receiving an annual compensation of $2,000, which
was paid from the appropriation entitled "Pay, Miscellaneous," when hie was notified by the Acting Secretary
of the Navy of his promotion to chief clerk in the same
pay office, which position the petitioner accepted and in
which he served until April 17, 1909, when he filed his
application for retirement as an officer of the Navy under
§ 1444, having attained the age of sixty-two years on
July 1, 1906. This application was denied. On November 14, 1910, he petitioned for retirement under the
act of June 24, 1910. This petition also was denied. On
December 14, 1910, the petitioner's request for leave
without pay was approved by the Department, and he
was notified that if he was unable, to report for duty by
December 31, 1910, his resignation would be accepted,
otherwise he would be discharged. On January 7, 1911,.
petitioner tendered his resignation, under protest, which
was accepted.
After considering the various statutes the Court of
Appeals reached the conclusion that the petitioner was
not a paymaster's clerk within the meaning of the law,
and said'(p. 476):
"Appellant was appointed 'for duty at the Navy Pay
Office' at San Francisco, a purchasing paymaster's office.
He received an annual salary of $2,000 from 1893 to 1908,
instead of $1,300, to which he would have been entitled
had he been appointed under the provisions of sec. 1386
[which provides for the appointment of regular paymaster's clerks]. His promotion in 1908 did not affect his
status, since he was at no time a paymaster's clerk in the
technical sense, but at all times attached to the particular
office. He was no more an officer of the Navy than any
one of the many employds o the Navy Department at
Washington.

FOREMAN v. MEYER.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"We rule therefore that he never possessed any right
to retirement. Upon the other questions suggested, it is.
unnecessary to express an opinion."
The decision therefore rested upon the denial of the
contention that petitioner was a paymaster's clerk and
entitled to the benefit of the statutes governing such
cases.
This case, like the one just decided, Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, ante, p. 445, is sought to be brought
here under § 250 of the Judicial Code because it is said
to be a case in which the validity of an authority exercised under the United States or the existence or scope
of the power or duty of an officer of the United States is
drawn in question. From what we have said of the character of the case made and decided, we think it is apparent
that no such validity was drawr) in question, nor was the
existence or the extent or scope of the power or duty of an
officer of the United States challenged or decided.
The case was made and a decision was had in the Court
of Appeals upon the issue whether under the statutes invoked by the petitioner as the ground of his' right to the
relief sought, he was or was not a paymaster's clerk entitled to be entered upon the register of retired officers
of the Navy. Applying the principles just announced
in deciding the case of Cliampion Lumber Co. v. Fisher,
ante, p. 445, the petition for writ of error in this case must
be denied.

