CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, - 1912.

YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY v. GREENWOOD GROCERY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MISSISSIPPI.

No. 54.

Argued November 14, 1912.-Decided January 20, 1913.

Since Congress has acted, by passing the Hepburn Act of June 29,1906,
in regard to delivery of cars for interstate shipments, all state legislation on that subject has been superseded. Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry.
v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426.
A regulation of a state railroad commission that the railroad company
must deliver freight to, or place the car in an accessible place for, the
consignee of interstate shipments within twenty-four hours after arrival, without allowance for justifiable and unavoidable delay, is an
unreasonable interference with and burden on interstate commerce
'and void under the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution; and
so held as to a regulation to that effect of the Mississippi Railroad
Commission. Houston & Texas Cefitral R. R. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 329.
96 Mississippi, 403, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of.the Federal Constitution of certain rules of the Mississippi Railroad Commission relating. to delivery of cars for interstate shipments, are
stated in the opinion.
VOL. CCXXVII-1
(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Mr. Edward Mayes and Mr. Charles N. Burch, with
whom Mr. Blewett Lee and Mr. H. D. Minor were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Harry Peyton for defendant in error
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the

opinion of the

court.
The Grocery Company was permitted in the state
courts to offset against a claim for demurrage, its claim

against the Railroad Company for penalties aggregating
$58 for delays in delivering cars to the Grocery Company,
the consignee thereof, at the completion of interstate
transportation, the right to which penalties arose from
certain rules of the Railroad Commission of Mississippi
copied in the margin. 1 Eighteen dollars of the penalties
accrued after June 29, 1906, the date of the passage of the
Hepburn Act.
, Rule 1. Railroad Companies shall within twenty-four hours after
the arrival of shipments, give notice by mail or otherwise, to consignee
of arrival of goods, together with weight and amount of freight charges
due thereon and on goods in car load quantities, said notices must contain letters or initials of the car, number of the car, and if transferred
in transit, the number and initial of the original car, net weight and the
amount of freight charges due on same. No demurrage charge shall be
made unless legal notice of arrival is given to consignee.
Any Railroad Company failing to give such notice, and to deliver
such freight at its depots or warehouses, or, in case of shipment for track
delivery, to place loaded cars at an accessible place for unloading, within
twenty-four hours after arrival, computing from 7 a. m., the day following
the arrival, shall forfeit and pay the consignee, or other party whose
interest is affected, the sum of $1.00 per car per day or fraction of a
day, on all carload shipments, and one cent per one hundred (100)
pounds per'day or fraction thereof, on less than car load lots, with a
minimum charge of five cents for any one package, after the expiration
of said twenty-four hours.
Rule XI. No other charge shall be-made for storage or demurrage
except as provided in the foregoing rules, and if a railroad company is
indebted to a shipper or consignee for delayage, then a claim for demurrage shall be offset by a claim for delayage.

YAZOO & MISS. R. R. v. GREENWOOD GRO. CO. 3
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

If the case at bar, concerning as it does the delivery of
cars at the termination of interstate commerce transportation, be considered as governed by the rule which controls the furnishing of cars for the making of such shipments, the decision recently announced in Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Ry. Co. v. The Hardwick FarmersElevator Company, 226 U. S. 426, decided this term, would be
controlling as to the penalties allowed as an offset which.
accrued after June 29, 1906. As, however, the prior
penalties allowed as an offset would in any event be not
controlled by the case referred to, we come to consider
the validity of the allowance of all of the offset independent of the principle applied in that case. Approaching the
subject from this point of view, we think the rule of the
State Commission upon which the right to all the so-called
"delayage penalties" was based constituted an unreasoriable burden upon interstate commerce within the decision
in Houston & T. C. R. R. Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321,'329,
since the requirement as to the delivery of cars within
the short period fixed in the rule is absolute, and makes
no allowance whatever for any justifiable and unavoidable cause for the failure to deliver. In saying this we do
not give controlling effect to the observation contained
in the opinion of the court below that no question was
made as to the reasonableness of the regulation, since the
opinion itself states that the ruling in the Mayes Case
was the main reliance of the railroad company, and in the
argument at bar both sides have discussed the case on the
theory that the substantial question to be decided was
whether the rule of the Commission which the court below, upheld was an unreasonable regulation in view of the
decision in the Mayes Case.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi is
reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed

