AM. R. iE. OF PORTO RICO v. DIDRICKSEN.
227 U. S.

145

Syllabus.

to have been accepted by the company, were checked by
the company's tallymen, who testified, and if other evidence than that of the men who made the entries was necessary it was produced.
See 2 Wigmore, Evidence,
§§ 1521, 1530. Another objection to evidence concerned
the admission of testimony that the same course of conduct was going on long before the date in the indictment
when it is alleged that the defendants conspired. The
indictment of course charged a conspiracy not barred by
the statute of limitations, but it was permissible to prove
that the course of fraud was entered on long before and
kept up.
Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342, 360.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 76. The
acts and directions of earlier date tended to show that the
same conspiracy was on foot. The petitioner was there.
The time of his becoming a party to it was uncertain. The
longer it had lasted the greater the probability that he
knew of it and that his acts that helped it were done with
knowledge of their effect. We think it unnecessary to discuss the suggestion that the evidence did not warrant leaving the case to the jury, or to add further to the discussion
that the case received below.
Judgment affirmed.

AMERICAN

RAILROAD COMPANY
RICO v. DIDRICKSEN.

OF PORTO

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 72. Submitted December 6, 1912.-Decided January 27, t913.

Wihere the plaintiffs in an action under the Employers' Liability Act
are the sole beneficiaries under the statute, a general verdict in their
favor, without instructions on this point, overcomes the objectioni
of lack of capacity to sue.
VOL. CCXXVII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The Employers' Liability Act extends to Porto Rico, as held in A.?mrican Railroad Company v. Birch, 224 U. S. 547, and now held that
the Safety Appliance Acts also extend to Porto Rico.
While Porto Rico has not for all purposes been fully incorporated into
the United States it is not foreign territory nor 're its citizens aliens.
Williams v. Gonizales, 192 U. S. 1. Its organization is in most essentials that of a Territory. Kopel v. Bingham, 211 L. S. 468.
In view of the provisions of § 3 thereof, effect cannot be given to the
Employers' Liability Act of 1908 in Porto Rico unless the Safety Appliance Acts referred to in § 3 are in force there also.
Under the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 pecuniary (dimages only
are recoverable and these do not include loss of society or conilanionship of a son to a parent. Michigan Central Railroadv. Vrecland,
ante, 1). 51).
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 401, 427, reversed.
THE fa .ts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Act, of 1908 before its anendment by tIe
act of 1910, and the application of the act to Porto Rico,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. N. B. K. Peltingill and Mr. F. L. Cornwell for
plaintiff in error.
There was no brief filed for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action under the Employers' Liability Act of
April 22, 1908, 35 Statutes at Large, 65, c. 149, before its
amendment by the act of April 5, 1910, 86 Stat,. 291, c. 1,13.
The. plaintiffs were the surviving parents of Pedro l)idricksen, an- employe of the American l1ailroad of Porto
Rico, who died from an injury sustained while in its
service.
1. Many errors have been assigned. One assigned, but
not noticed in the brief of appellant, goes to the capacity
of the plaintiffs to maintain the action.

AM. R. R. OF PORTO RICO v. D1DRICKSEN.
227 U. S.

147

Opinion of the Court.

That the deceased left neither wife nor children is not
denied. That the plaintiffs were, therefore, as his surviving parents, the sole beneficiaries under the statute is also
conceded.
One of the defenses made by the answer was that the
plaintiffs had not been appointed administrators as required by law, and had therefore no right to maintain this
suit under the Liability Act of 1908. This aWas met after
the jury had been summoned, by a motion, as shown by
the plaintiff's bill of exceptions, "to amend the complaint
by making the following interlineation: 'That plaintiffs
are the duly appointed personal representatives of the
deceased, appointed by the District Court of the Island
of Porto Rico,' which leave is granted by the court." To
this amendment the defendant excepted. A journal entry of the same date shows that in support of the motion
the plaintiffs produced a certain certificate from the District Court of Porto Rico, and that the complaint was
amended by interlining the words, after the word "support,"-"They were further the only personal representatives of the deceased."
This certificate is not in the transcript and we have no
way of knowing its sufficiency as an appointment. The
case went to the jury upon the issue of the capacity of the
plaintiffs to sue, as well as upon the other issues. The
court neither gave nor refused any instruction upon this
point, and there was a general verdict for the plaintiffs.
2. The evidence upon the merits of the case, though
obscure and meagre as to the circumstances of the accident, was such as to justify its submission to the jury.
3. The complaint averred that the cars composing the
train in charge of the deceased as conductor were not
equipped as required by the Safety Appliance Act of
March 2, 1903, 32 Stat., 943, c. 976. There was some
evidence tending to show that one or more of the
couplers were not in repair and some evidence tending

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

to show that this had a causal connection with the accident. The court instructed the jury that the Safety Appliance Act applied to Porto Rico. Was this error?
The acts of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat., 531, c.196, and
April, 1896, 29 Stat., 85, related only to railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce. The traffic wholly
confined to a Territory of the United States was therefore
not within either. But the act of March 2, 1903, amended
the former acts and extended their provisions to "coimmon carriers by railroad in the Territories and the District of Columbia."
That the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908,
35 Stat., 65, 291, c. 149, does apply to Porto Rico is
plain, since it, on its face, extends to the District of Columbia, the Territories the Panama Canal Zone and
other "possessions" of the United States. That it did
extend to Porto Rico was expressly decided in American
Railroad Company of Porto Rico v. Birch, 224 U. S.547.
The question as to whether the Safety Appliance Act extended to that Island was reserved in the Birch Case.
We are of opinion that the act does extend to Porto
Rico. It is true that the term, "possessions" of the
United States is not used as in the Liability Act. The
act does, however, provide that the former acts of which
it is amendatory "shall be held to apply to common
carriers by railroad in the Territories and the District of
Columbia," etc. Though for all purposes the Island of
Porto Rico has not been fully incorporated. into the
United States, it obviously is not foreign territory, nor
its citizens aliens. Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S.1, 15.
Its organization is in most essentials that of those political
evitities known as Territories. It has a territorial legislature and a territorial system of courts. By the fourteenth
section of the Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat.,
77, 80, c. 191, "the statute laws of the United
States not locally inapplicable

.

.

.

have the same

AM. R. R. OF PORTO RICO v. DIDRICKSEN.
227 U. S.

149

Opinion of the Court.

force and effect in Porto Rico as in the United States,
except the revenue law."
In Kopel v. Bingham, 211 U. S. 468, Porto Rico was
held to be a Territory within the meaning of § 5278, Revised Statutes, providing for the surrender of fugitive
criminals by governors of Territories.
It is not easy to see how effect can be given to the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 in Porto Rico, without concluding that this act of 1903 is also in force there, since the
former, as pointed out in the Birch Case, 224 U. S. 547,
555, provides in its third section, "that no employ6 who
may be injured or killed shall be held to have been guilty
of contributory negligence in any case where the violation
by such common carrier of any statute enacted for the
safety of employes contributed to the injury or death."
The fourth section contains a like provision concerning
assumption of risk.
These considerations lead to the conclusion that the
court below did not err in ruling that the act extended to
Porto Rico.
4. There was error in the rule for measuring the damages recoverable.
The cause of action which was created in behalf of the
injured employ6 did not survive his death, nor pass to his
representatives. But the act, in case of the death of such
an employe from his injury, creates a new and distinct
right of action for the benefit of the dependent relatives
named in -the statute. The damages recoverable are
limited to such loss as results to them because they have
beeni deprived of a reasonable expectation of pecuniary
benefits by the wrongful death of the injured employ(6.
The damage is limited strictly to the financial loss thus
sustained. The court below went beyond this limitation
by charging the jury that they might, in estimating the
danages, "take into consideration the fact that they are
the father and mother of the deceased anti the fact that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

227 U.S.

they are deprived of his society and any care and consideration he might take of them, or have for them during his
life."
The loss of the society or companionship of a son is a
deprivation not to be measured by any money standard.
It is not a pecuniary loss under such a statute as this.
Laying out of consideration the indefiniteness of the term
"care and consideration," as elements in addition to the
loss and damage of such pecuniary assistance as the
parents of the decedent might have reasonably anticipated
from their son, it is enough for the purpose of this case to
say that there was no allegation of any such loss, nor any
evidence relating to the subject, or from which its pecuniary value might have been estimated. The scope of
the compensation recoverable under this statute has been
so fully considered in Michigan Central Railroad v. Vreeland, ante, p. 59, that we need not say more.
The other assignments of error we pass by without
decision. None of them are of either general importance
or such as are likely to arise upon a new trial.
Reversed and remanded for a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the result.

ROSS v. STATE OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT. OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 75.

Argued December 6,1912.-Decided January 27, 1913.

The prohibition in § 10 of Article I of the Constitution against ex post
facto laws is a restraint upon the legislative power of the States and

concerrns the making of laws and not their construction by the courts.
While tilat prohibition is directed against legislative acts, and reaches
every form in which the legislative power acts, and while a judicial
decision is the a(t of an instrumentality of the State, if the )urpose

of that decision is not to prescrie a new law for the future hut only
to apply hIws' in force 0t, tIh tinie to (oplpeted transact ioin,, lwe
no F'edheral rilit. nr
trd
ruling is a judici,tani:l not a legislativea( ac

