56,

SUPREME COURT.
Ure v. Cofman d a.

far as they would go, when the money was received by them.
The fact that the'claim now in question was secured by a lien
on the Laura, can surely be no reason for applying the money
in the first place to discharge it. On the contrary, it would
bb a sufficient reason against such an application, and would
be a good ground for postponing it until all the claims for
which the creditor had no security were first satisfied.
I do not comprehend how the argument that it is the first
item in the account can apply: In point of fact, however, it
is not the first or oldest item in the account, as I understand
the transaction. And, if the lien on the vessel was originally
valid, it is evident that it has never been discharged, or waived,
or forfeited by unreasonable delay.
Some other items for necessaries furnished at Peyta, on the
last voyage of the Laura to that port, and also a small charge
for bread at Valparaiso, and which are not .included in the account signed by Leach, were allowed by the -Circuit Court,
and are included in the amount decreed. These items, the
counsel fbr the respondents insist, ought not to be allowed,
even if those in the account are sustained. I think, when the
whole testimony is examined, it will be evident that these
charges stand on the same principles with: those of which I
have already spoken. But I fbrbear to extend this opinion by
discussing that question; because, as the court have determined that the- repairs and supplies furnished, at the request
of Leach, are not a lien on the vessel, it is useless to examine
particular items, when the opinion of the court goes to the
whole.
Fromn'that opinion I respectfully dissent. And, after carefully revi6wing the case in all of its bearings, and scrutinizing
the evidence, .I adhere to the opinion I held in the Circuit
Court.

JAMES 11. TJRB, CLAIMANT OF TE STE~mEa GipSEY, APPELM. COFFMAN ,AND~ CYR11S. COMN, OWNERS,
LATI -V.-JAMES
or FLA -R
AND CARGo.
Where a flat-boat which was fastened to the bank of the Mississippi river at.
night, was run down and sunk by a steamer, the circumstances show that the
steamer was in. fault, and must be responsible for the loss.
It was not nec~sary for the flat-boat, in the position which it occupied, to shD* a
light duringthe night.
When a boat or vessel of any kind is fastened for the night at a landing place tA
which other boats may have occasion to make a landing in the night, it is cer-

tainly prudent ftr- her posion, to be designated, by a-light, on her own aceeint,

DECEMBER TERM, 1856..

57

lUre v. Coffman efal.
ai well as that the vessel making a landing may have light to do so. But
when a vessel i tied to the bank of a river, not in a port or harbor, or at a
place of lauding, out of the line of customary navigation, there is no occasion
for her to show a light, nor has it ever been required that she should do so.

This was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiralty.
It was a case of collision,.which occurred in the Mississippi
river; about ffty-five miles above New Orleans.
The narrative of the case is given in the opinion of the
court.
. The District Court decreed- in favor of the owners of the
flat-bdat, who were the libellants, in the sum of $3,416.15,
with five per cent. interest from the 24th of December, 1853,
until paid, and costs.
Upon anaplieal to the Circuit Court, this decree was affirmed,
whereupon the claimants of the Gipsey appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Taylor for the appellants, and by J1r.
Benjamin for the appellees.
Mr.Taylor made the following points:
1st. That the a ppellant was' engaged in a lawful business;
that he exercise-.ordinary prudence in the prosecution of his
voyage on the pght in question; and that the collision was
the result of an-accident, and not from negligence, misconduct,
or want of skill; and that he is in no way responsible for. the
loss sustained by the appellees. Va. In. Co. v. Millaudon, 11
L. R.,.115; Stainbeach v. Rea, 14 Howard U. S. R., 532.
2d. That if there was.any fault or want of care on the part
of the appellant, there was also fault or want of care on the
part of. the appellees, inasmucli as they failed to make use of
that common care and prudence. which is required of all, in
the public interest, by neglecting to keep any watch on the
flat-boat, or to expose a light upon it, and that therefore they
have no right to recover. Delaware v. Osprey, 2 Wallace, 273;
Ward. v. Armstrong, 14 fll., 283, 285; Innis v. Steamer Senator, 1 Cal., 459, 460; Sipuson v. Hand, 6 Wharton, 324; Murphy,v. Diamond, 3 An., 441; Lesseps v. Pontehartrain R. R.,
7 T. R., 261; Fleytas v. Pontchartrain R. R., 18 TL., 339;
Carlisle v. Holton 3 An., 48; The Alival, 25 Eng. Law and
Equity, 604; 5 Statutes at Large, 306, sec. 10; Act of Louisiana of 1832.
3d. That if the appellant was at all in fault, and responsible
in some .degree because of that fault, then the appellees are
only entiiled to recover one-half of the amount of the damages

58

SUPREME COURT.
Urs v. Coffman d al.

occasioned by the collision. Brickell v. Frisby, 2 R., 205;
Schooner Catherine v. Dickinson, 17 Howard U. S. R., 170.
Mr. Benjamin made the following points:
The claimants and appellants do not deny that they ran into
and sank the flat-boat, whilst she was lying tied up to the bank
at night, but they seek to excuse themselves by urging:
First. That the flat was lying moored to the'bail of the
river, at a distance of only fifty feet below a wood-yard, in the
way of steamboats taking wood, and in the way of steamboats
landing freight o' passengers, at the usual landing of Madame
Trudeau, the owner of the plantation on which the wood-yard
was situated-; and
Secondly. That the flat-boat had no light out, and was so
concealed by the shadows of the bank that-she could not be
seen.
I. To this first excuse, the short and ready answer is, that
the Gipsey was not- engaged in any attempt to land at the
wood-yard, or at Mrs. Trudeau's landing place, when she ran
into the flat-boat; but, on the contrary, was bound up the
river for a landing at George Mather's plantatioif.
. Yet the night was so dark and foggy, that whilst they
thought they were running up the river, they ran directly into
the bank, -sinking the flat-boat.
-They pretend. that the night was not too dark to run, and
that-it was quite light enough for them to pursue their voyage
with safety. The testimony is somewhat conflicting on this
point; but on their own evidence they are in a fatal dilemma.
By the evidence of her own officers, the Gipsey would have
rifn
directly into the bank of the river, if the flat-boat had not
intervened.
Now, if it was light enough to navigate with
safety, the fact proves the grossest carelessness and negligence,
sufficient to make the steamer responsible.
Af on the contrary, it was not light enough to navigate with
safety, ttre was criminal imprudence in continuing the voyage, instead of lying.up till the darkness was dissipated.
The district judge puts the dilemma very clearly in his
opinion, and there is no escape from it..
II. To the-second excuse, the answer is, that there was no
obligation on the part of the flat-boat to exhibit a light.
, She was moored in a nook ok recess of the bank where it
had caved, so as to leave a point of land jutting out into the
river above and below her.
Whether near a wod-yard, or not, is a matter of no consequence. She waszot at the wood-yard. She was nestled securely, as her owners had every reason to believe, beyond the

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

59

Ure v. Coffman et al.

possibility of harm from ascending or descending boats, and
she was not harmed by any boat that was ascending or descending by a proper course, but by a boat which, whilst its officers
declare they were bound up the river, run straight across it, to
a spot where they had no intention of going.
A steamboat running at night is bound to have lights, (act
July, 1838, 5 Stat. at LTarge, 306,) and it would no doubt be
held imprudent for a flat-bout, under the same circumstances,
to neglect the same precaution; bnt it never has been even
pretended, before, that a vessel of any kind, tied to the bank
of a river, not in any port or harbor, or usual place of landing,
is bound to show a light, still less when, as in the present case,
the vessel was lying i a nook or recess of the bank, entirely
out of the usual course of ascending or descending vessels.
Mr. Justice WA=E delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
that the steamer Gipsey was a
the record,
It appears
on the from
Mississippi
river, running from New Orleans to
packet
Lobdell's Store landing, above Bayou Sara, and, as all the
other Mississippi steam river packets do, was in the habit of
landing -freight and .passengets at all the intermediate points
and plantations. She was making a trip up the river from
New Orleans on the evening of the 21st Decelber, 1853. The
bight was rainy and dark' and after midnight somewhat foggy.
It was light enough, thiough, for the boats navigating the river
to run and to distinguish and make'all their landings. All
of the witnesses say it was a proper night for running, and
npne of the packets, or other boats, laid up on that night on
account of the weather. Alexander Desarpes, a witness for
the claimant, says, "he was the pilot of the Gipsey, and was
on watch at .the wheel at the time the Gipsey struck the flatboat. That the collision happened above the point at Trudeau's
wood-yard, about fifty-six miles above New Orleans, between
twelve and one o'clock at night, on the 22d December, 1853.
He says it was a pretty bad nigh t, rainy, dark, and smoky,
rather than foggy, with a little fog. There was light enough,
however, for the boat to distinguish landings, and she ran and
made all of her's of freight and passengers as she went up.
Her last landing before the collision was one of freight, at.J.
B. Armant's plantation, on the right-hand side of the river
descending, about half a mile below Tkudeau's wood-yard.
We then crossed the river from there, to go to George Mather's
plantation.. At that time the night was dark and rainy, but
the shore coula be seen for some distance. There was a light

60

SUPREME COURT.
Ure v. (offman et al

at Trudeau's wood-yard on the bank, which is pretty high
there, at least fifteen feet above the water; I could see this
light a long distance-three or four arpents from the shore;
there was a point of land just below the wood-yard; I was
looking out when the boat was approaching the shore, for the
purpose of going up that shore to make a landing; I could see an
outline of the shore, or bank, all along, antd distinctly, too; I did
-not discover the flat-boat until we were right up againdt her;
the flat-boat was lying close to the bank, and in its shadow,
and having no light on her I could not see her; she was lying
just at the foot of the wood-yard; the light on the bank was a
good distance from the fiat-boat, and did not shine upon her.
As soon as we saw the flat-boat, we stopped the engine of the
Gipsey, and backed. If there had been a light on the flat-boat,
I could have seen it at a sufficient distance to have avoided the
collision, but there was no light on her. As the flat-boat was
low down in the water, if there had been a light on her, wke
should have known it wLs something down in the water. I
saw nobody on watch on the flat-b6at at the time of the collision, and heard no hail from her before it." The witness
further states that he had been a pilot on the river for more
than'ten years, "running in this lower trade," and adds, at the
time of and before the collision, the weather was such as boats
are in the -habitof running and making landings, and I, as a
pilot, consider that it was safe and proper to run the boat.
Mather's landing,- where the Gipsey was going to land, was
about a quarter of a mile above Trudeau's wood-yard. Upon
the cross-interrogatidn of this witness, he does not give an intelligent or ceitain statenient of the collision, or where or how
the Gipsey struck the flat-boat; but says she was tied to a
p6int, and her Stern lay a little out.from the bank; she laid up
And down the 'river in the same direction with the current;
there are curvings in along the bank; the flat 'vas lying at a
point fastened, and 'there are curvings both above and below
that point, which was a mere jutting out of the bank in consequence of durvings above and below it. The direct examination being resumed, this witness says, on a clear starlight
night, in such a stage of water as prevailed at the time of the accident, we could have seen a flat-boat at a good distance in time
to prevent an accident. If there had been on the flat-boat
such a light as is generally carried on deck by a steamboat, or
a schooner, or on flat-boats when they re running, I could have
seen it three or four. arpents off, and .this would have given 'me
time to avoid the collision..
The. evidence of this witness is not in any material particular changed by any other witness examined in the case. It is

DECEMB1ER TERM, 1856.Ure v. Coffman et al.

rather confirmed.; but the captain of the Gipsey, who was also
sworn as witness, gives a more certain account of the collision,
as to the part of the flat-boat which was struck by the steamer,
and by what part of the steamer she was struck. The testimony is conclusive, that the flat being tied to the shore, at what
might have been considered a proper and safe place, was struck
by the steamer with sufficient force to cut a part of her down,
and to sink her in a fewi minutes. There are three points to
,be noted in the testimony of Desarpes. The first is, that the
steamer, being upward bound, had made a landing at Armant's
plantation, about half a mile below Trudeau's wood-yard, and
that her next place for making a landing was a quarter of a
mile above that, on the opposite side of the river, at Mather's
plantation, making the distance between the two places about
three-quarters of a mile. -Secondly, that in his opinion as an
experienced pilot, and accustomed to the navigation of the
river, there was nothing in the state of the weather to prevent
the steanier from being ran as usual, and put across the river
to make a landihg at Mather's plantation, but that she was run
so close in' shore as to be brought into collision with the flatboat, and thereby that the witness admits that the only cause
Qf it was, that the flat-boat was lying close to the bank, and so
much in its shadow, and not" havin a light, he could not see
her. His language is, that' if there had been on the flat-boat
such a light as is generally carried on deck by a steamboat or
a schooner, or on a flat-boat when they are running, he could
have seen it far-enough off to have avoided the collision.
Captain Ure, then in coinmand of the Gipsey, gives the same
account, scarcely with a variance, of the navigation of his vessel fro'm Aximant's plantation until the collision had occurred,
but says, with more positiveness than his pilot spoke, that the
forward end of the Gipsey--some part of the bow pretty far
forward-struck the flat-boat. His language is, that he "was
on the roof of the steamer in front all the time, when they had
made their landing at Armant's, up to the moment of the collision. From Armant's we ran the bend of the river on the
same side a short distance, and then crossed over to make a
landing at Mather's, abov:e Trudeau's wood-yard. *There was
A light .above the wood-pile, but I saw nothing but its glare
*before the collision, the wood-pile being between the light and
my eyes. I cpuld see the glare some three or.five minutes before the .collision took place. We had almost hit the flat-boat
when. I saw it. .Iwas looking out and saw the boat, seeing its
outline pretty clearly about the same time thatI saw the glare
of the light spoken of. It was the shadow of the bank, which
is high here, which prevented ma from seeing. If there had

62

SUPREME COURT.
Ure v. Coffman et al.

been on the flat-boat any such light asfiaboats usually carry, I could
have seen it in time to avoid hitting her." He further says, "the
night was slightly foggy and bad, and it had been raining, but
cannot recollect whether it was raining atthe time of the collision. There was no fog until we came tb Armant's, and after
we left Armant's the fog came on, and I think that smoke was
mixed with the fog. We did not lay up that night for fog, but
ran.all night." Other witnesses were examined by the claimants, but it is not necessary to notice their testimony further
than to say, that neither of them give any additional facts concerning the navigation of the steamer from Armant's plantation, or concerning the collision, contradictory from what was
said of both -by Captain Ure and his pilot Desarpes.
Trying, then, the claimant's case only by the evidence introduced.by himself, it is obvious that the steamer was put across
the river from Armant's in a state of weather and on a night
proper for running, without proper care to make her next landing at Mather's, which was at least a quarter of a mile above
the wood-yard, a little below which the flat-boat was moored.
Both the pilot and the captain attempt to indicate the place
and the part of the steamer which was first in contact with the
fiat-boat, by mathematical figures. If that of the pilot's is
taken as the fact of the case, it must be conceded that the
Gipisey was put across the river a little below where the flatboat laid, and so near the bank that she could not have beenrun above her, -bypursuing that course, without a collision.
Running so near to the bant, when there was ample channelway further out in the river for the steamer to pass the point
and curve made by it, at which and within which the fiat-boat
was fastened; was a want of proper care. Both pilot and captain knew that the wood-yard and its immediate vicinity was a
point of the.river at which boats were customarily moored at
night, as a place of safety against collisions from ascending or
descending boats, and should have run the steamer further out
in the river to avoid all chance of collision with boats tied to
the bank or wood-yard; and in this instance, there was no occasion for the steamer having been run so near to the bank of
the river, as it was not intended to make a landing at the
wood-yard, but to pass it to a landing higher up. The collision, according to the pilot's account of it, was caused by the
steamer not having been kept on a course further out from the'
bank. Thatj of"itsaq4 is sufficient to make her answerable for
all the consequences of-it, without any regard to the fact that
the fiat-boat had not a light. A light upon her might, in the
language of the witness, ave enabled him to have avoided the
bollision by putting, the steamer further out in the river, but

DEORBER TERM, 1856.

68

Ue Y. Jofinan et al.

the want of a light was not the cause of it. The cause was,
that the steamer's course was too near on shore. But if the
captain's Iaccount of the collision is taken as the fact of the
cases as we think it ought to be, the steamer is altogether without excuse, for she was put across the river without due care
as to her course, and would have been*run bow on into the
bank,.at the point where the flat-boat was fastened, if she had
not been stopped by the collision. In such a view of the case
as we have given from the testimony of the claimant's witnesses,
it is not necessary for us to consider the point made by the
witnesses, and by counsel in the argument, that the flat-boat
had not a light to show herself or her mooring durin the night.
Tied, as she was, in a recess of the land, with a point of land
extending into the river below the wood-yard, there was no
necessity for her to slfow a light to protect her from boats
ascending or descending the river, or from landing, which
might be made at the wood-yard, as she was actually fastened
to the bank, out of the line of a customary and safe navigation
up or down the river. In other words, the steamer was either
run closer into the bank than was necessary or usual at that
point of the river, and out of what should have been her course
to- make her landing at Mather's, or she was run head upon
the flat-boat, where the latter was tied to the bank. When a
boat or vessel of any kind is fastened- for the night at a landing
.place, to which other boats may have occasion to make a lanfing.in the night, -it is certainly prudent for her position to be
designated by a light on her own account, as well as that the
.vessel making landing may have light to do so. But when
a vessel is tiel to the bank of a river, not in a port or harbor, or
at a place of landing, out of the line of customary navigation,
there is no occasion for her to show a light, nor has it ever
been required that she should do so.
.After the best examination of this case, we are of the opinion that the steamer Gipsey was put across the river from
Armant's, in the prosecution of the intention to make another
landing with her at Iathei's plantation- without skill or prudence, and that the collision with the flat-boat was the consequence of it, without any fault or want of care by those navigating it. There is, therefore, no ground for reducing the
damages given by the District and- Circuit Courts to. the
owners of the flat-boat.
Having examined the record very fully as to the items
making up the aggregate of damage given by those -decrees,
we affim the decree of the Circuit Court in the case.'

