DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

9

&z 1arte Skombe.

register of-the' land office at Quincy, dated
which
is 'in the words and figures following, to. wit;" and that
the said certificate, thus referred to, is not inserted in the
exception, nor its contents stated in any part of the transcript,
on consideration whereo; it is now here ordered by this
court, that a writ -of certiorari be and the same is hereby
awarded, to be issued forthwith, and to be directed to the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States fcr the district of Illinois, commanding them to supply the omission
above mentioned, and return a full and correct transcript to
this court, with this writ, on or before the first day of the
next term of this court.

Ex PARTE, IN THE MATTER o DAViD A. SECOMBE.
By the rules and practice of common-law courts, it rests exclusively with the
court to determine who is qualified to become or continue one of its .officers, as
an attorney and counsellor of the court; the power being regulated, however,
by a sound and just judicial discretion--guarding the rights and independence
of .the bar as well as the-dignity and authority-of the court.
The local law of the Territory of Minnesota has regulated the relation between
courts and attorneys and counsellors, but has not essentially changed the cornmon-law principle.
The 3,innesota statute authorizes the court to dismiss an attorney or counsellor
if he does not maintain the respect due to courts of justice and judicial officers,
or for not conducting himself with fidelity to the court.
The Supreme Court of the Territory dismissed the relator from the office of counsellor and attorney of the court, stating in the sentence of dismissal that he
was guilty of the.offences above mentioned, but not spe~ifyin'g the act or acts
which, in the opinion of the court, constituted the offence.
The order of dismissal is a judicial act done in the exercise of a judicial disiretion vested in the court by'law; and a mandamhus cannot be issued by a superior or appellate court, .commanding it to reverse its decision and restore the
relator to the office he has lost.

THis was a motion for a mandamus to be directed to the
judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesot,
commanding them to vacate and set aside an order of the
court, passed at January term, 1866, whereby the said Secombe
was removed from his office as an attorney and counsellor
of that court.
The subject was brought before this court by the following
petition and documents in support of it:
To the Hon. the.-dges of the supreme Court of the United 6Iates:.
The petition of David A. Secombe respectfully showeth:
That he resides in the city of St. Anthony, in the Territory
of Minnesota; that on the ninth day of July, 1852, he was
duly admitted and sworn to practice as an attorney and con-

SUPREME COURT.
Lx Parte 2eombe.

sellor at law and solicitor in chancery of the said Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota, and was thereby entitled
also to practice as such in the various District Courts of said
Territory, as will appear by the certificate of .the clerk of the
said Supreme Cort, hereunto annexed and made part of this
petition; that from the said time up to the 5th day of February, 1856, he was -a practising attorney and counsellor as
aforesaid in the said courts, ancd s9lely thereby obtained the
means of. support for himself and his family; that on the said
5th day of February, an order of the said Supreme Court was
made, and entered of record, to remove him from his said
office of attorney and counsellor, and to forbid and prohibit
him from-practising as such attorney and counsellor in any of
the said courts, an exemplification of which said order, with
the certificate of the clerk of the said court accompanying the,same, is hereunto annexed, and made part of this petition; that,
previously to the making and entry of said order, no notice or
information whatever was 'given to or had by him, that any
acusation whatever had been made or entertained, or any
proeedings had or were about to be niade, entertained, or ha,
against or in relation to him, in the said premises; that he ivas
not present in court at the time of the making -and entry
of said order, nor did he have any knowledge whatever of the
same until several days thereafter, and. then only by rumor;
that there existed no good cause whatever, as your petitioner
believes, for the making of the said order; that he has no
knowledge or information, or means of obtaining either, save
by rumor, of the alleged cause of the making of the said
order; that in consequence of the making anY entryof the
said order, he has been and now is hindered and prevented
from practising as such attorney and counsellor in any of the
said courts, and thereby has lost the said means of providing
for the support of himself and his family; that he believes
that the said order of court is not only in fact entirely without
cause, but also in law wholly null and void; and that in the
said premises "he has been deprived of his liberty and property-without due process of law."
Wherefore, your petitioner prays that this honorable, court
will allow and cause to be issued the UTnited States writ of
mandamus to the judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Minnesota aforesaid, commanding them to vacate, set aside,
and disregard, the said otder of court by them -made and*
entered, that thereby speedy justice may be done to your
petitioner in this behalf; and thus will your petitioner, as in
O
rDjy A. SEcoM-E.
duty bound, ever pray.
. I
Dated May 80, 1856.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Ez Pare

11

ecombe.

DISTRICT oF COLUMBIA,

County of 'Washington, ss:

Then comes before me, personally, David A. Seeombe, the
above and. foregoing named petitioner, and being by me duly
sworn, -deposes and says, that- the statements made in the
above and foregoing petition, by him subscribed, are true of
his'own knowledge, except to those matters therein stated 6n
his information or belief; and as to those matters, that he
believes them to be true.
'[SEA.]
SuPREM

N. CALL", J. P.
COURT,

Territory of JMmnesota:
Ordered, That Isaac Van Etten, Theodore ParkerDe Vitt
C. Cooley, David A. Secombe, William H. Welch, Charles L.
Willis, Lucas R. Stannard, Edward L. Hall, Warren Bristol,
and William -H. Wood, be sworn and admitted to practice as
attorneys and counsellors at law and solicitors in chancery of
this court.
I,-George W. Prescott, clerk of the Supreme Court above
named, certify that the.above is a true copy of an order of
said court, entered of record upon the "minutes of court"
for and upon the 9th day of July, A. D. 1852, being the 4th
day of the general term of said court for said year..
In testimony whereof; I have hereunto *set my hand
[spuL.] and affixed the seal* of said Supreme Court, at St.

Paul aforesaid, this 7th day of May, A. D. 1856.
GEORGE W. PRESCOTT, Clerk.
SUPREME CoURT,

Tioln of .tnmesota:

JAuAny GmRAL

T.,

A.-D. 1856,

17TH DA,

TuzsDAY Honmi , F

-

nuAM:5, 1856.

Court met pursuant to adjournment.
Present, Chief Justice Welch and Justice Chatfield.
It appearing to this court that David A. Se~ombe, one of
the attorneys thereof; has by his acts as such in open court,
at
presentsubdivision
term thereof;
been guilty
of the
the second
of section
seveilofofa wilful
chapterviolation
ninety-

three of the revised statutes of this Terrtoary, and also of a
violation
partto
of conduct
his official
oath as
such
attorney by
which he of
wasthat
sworn
himself
with
fidelity
to the
court:
It
is
therefore
Ordered, That the said David A. Secombe be and he hereby

is removed from his office as an attorney and c .asellor of tis

SUPREME COURT. ,
£z Parte Secombe.

court, and of the several District Courts of this Territory, and
that he be henceforth forbidden and prohibited from practising
as such attorney in any bf. said courts. It is further
Ordered, That the clerk of this court deliver to said David
A. Secombe a copy of this order.

A true record.' Attest:

GEORGE W. PRESCOTT, Clerk.

I, George W. Prescott, clerk of the Supreme Court in and
for the Territory of Minnesota, certify the foregoing to be a
true and complete copy of the order of court made and entered of record as above set forth on said 5th day of said February, A. D. 1856; and I further certiy, that the above and
foregoing is the whole and entire record in any way or manner
relating to the said order of court at the said term or at any
other term; and that the said order was made and entered of
record in the following and no other manner, to wit: On the
said day, the said David A. Secombe not being present in
court, as the paid judges rose to leave the court room after
having fixed the adjournment day for holding said court, one
of the said judges delivered to the undersigned clerk the said
order in writing, directing the same to be entered of record as
the order of said court, and the said court-was thereupon
immediately adjourned to the 15th day ofJuly then next. And
no farther or other order whatever in relation to the subject
matter of the said order was made at the said term.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
[SEAL.] and affixed the seal of said court, at St. Paul, this 7th
day of May, A. D. 1856.
GEORGE W. PRESCOTT, Clerk.
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE UNITED STATES ex relatwioe DAviD A. SEcomEE v. TE

JUDGES

OF TE

SuTEEmE COURT Or MNNESOTA TERITORY.

To the Judges of the Supreme Court of the Territoryof iinesota:
Please to take notice, that I shall move the Supreme Court
of the United States, on Friday of the first week of the next
term thereof, to be held at the Capitol in the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, on the first Monday of
December next, at the going in of the court, or as soon thereafter as counsel can be heard, for a rule, or order, upon the
judges of the Terriiory of Minnesota, requiring them to vacate, annul, an order made by that court on the 5th 'day of
February, 1856, removing David A. Secombe from his office
as attorney and counsellor of said court and of the District
Courts of said Territory, or show cause before the said Su-

.DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

18

Ez Parte Secombe.

preme Court of the United States why a writ of mandamus
should not be- issued to compel the said judges so to do.
And the said motion will be made upon the. petition of the
C. CusHnG, ..
said David A. Secombe, hereto annexed.
Attorney for Petitioner.
Dated May 80, 1856.
The case was argued by X1r. Baadger in support of the
motion.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEEY delivered the opinion of the
court.

A mandamus has been moved for, by David A. Secombe,
to be directed to the judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota, commanding them to vacate and set aside
an order of the court, passed at January term, 1856, whereby
the said Secombe was removed from his office as an attorney
and counsellor of that court.
In the case of Tillinghast v. Conkling, which came before
this court at January term, 1829, a similar motion -was overruled by this court. The case is not reported; but a brief
written opinion remains on the files of the court, in which the
court says that the motion is overruled, upon the ground that
it had not jurisdiction in the case. '
The removal of the attorney and counsellor, in that case,
took place in a District Court of the United States, exercising
the powers of a Circuit Court; and, in a court of that character,
the relations between the court and the attorneys and counsellors who practise in .it, and their respective rights and
duties, are regulated by the common law. And it has been
well settled, by the rules aid practice of common-law courts,
that it rests exclusively 'ith the couit to determine who is
qualified to become one of its officers, as an attorney and
counsellor, and for what cause he ought to be removed. The
porter, however, is not an arbitrary and despotic one, to be
exercised at the pleasure of the court, or.from passion, prejudice, or personal hostility; but it is the duty of the court to
exercise and regulate it by a*sound 'and just judicial discretion, whereby the rights and independence of the bar may be
as scrupulously guarded and maintained by the court, as the
rights and dignity of the court itself.
It has, however, been urged at the bar, that a much broader
discretionary power is exercised .in courts acting upon the
rules of the common law than can be lawfully exercised in
the Territorial court of Minnesota; because the Legislature of
the Territory has, by statute, prescribed the conditions upon
which a person may entitle himself to admission as an attor-

14

SUPREME COURT.
Ez Pane Scombe.

ney and counsellor in its courts, and also enumerated the
offences for which he may be removed, and prescribed the
mode of proceeding against him. And the relator complains
that it appears by the transcript fromthe record, and the certificate of the clerk, which he filed witth his petition for a
mandamus, that in the sentence of removal he is not found
guilty of any specific offence which would, under the statute
of the Territory, justify his removal, and had no notice of any
charge against him, and no opportunity of being heard in his
defence.
It is true that, in the statutes of Minnesota, rules are prescribed for the admission of attorneys and counsellors, and
also for their removal. But'it will appear, upon examination,
that, in describing 3ofe of the offences for which they may
be removed, the statute has done b-dt little, if anyth'ng, more
than enact the general rules upon which the courts of common law have always acted; and have not, in any material
degree, narrowed the discretion they exercised. Indeed, it is
difficult, if not impossible, to enumerate and define, with legal
precision, every offence for which an attorney or counsellor
ought to be removed. And the Legislature, for the most part,
can only prescribe geiieral rules and principles to be cprried
into execution by the court with judicial discretion and justice as cases may arise.
The revised code of Minnesota, (ch. 93, see. 7, subdivision 2,)
makes it the duty of the attorney and counsellor "to maintain the respect due to courts of justice and judicial officers."
The 19th section of the same chapter enumerates certain
offences for which an attorney or counsellor may be removed;
and, among others, enacts that he may be removed for a
wilful violation of any of the provisions of section 7, above
mentioned. And, in its sentence 6f removal, the court say
that the relator, being one of the attorneys and counsellors of
the court, had, by his acts as such, in open court, at the term
at which he was removed, been guilty of a wilful violation of
the provision -above mentioned, and also of a violation of that
part of his official oath by which he was sworn to conduct
himself with fidelity to the court.
The statute, it will be observed,'does not attempt to specify
the acts which shall be deemed disrespectful to the court or
the judicial officers. It must therefore rest with the court to
determine what acts amount to a violation of this provision;
and this is a judicial power vested in the court by the Legislature. The removal of the relator, therefore, for the cause
above mentioned, was'the act of a court done in the exercise
of a judicial discretiQn which the law authorized and required

DEOEM1BER TERM, 1856.,

15

Ez ParM~ &combe.

it-.t exercise. And the other cause assigned for the removal
stands on the same ground.
It is not- necessary to inquire whether this- decision of ,the
.Territorial court can be.rviewed -here in any other form of
proceeding. But the court are of opinion that he is not- en-titled to a remedy by mandamus. Undoubtedly the judgment
of an-inferior court may be reversed in a;superior one, which.
possesses appellate power over it, and a mandate be issued,
Commanding it to carry into execution the judgment of the
appellate tribunal. But it cannot .be reviewed and reversed
in this. 1.rm of proceeding, however erroneous itmay be or
supposed to be. Aid we are not aware of any case where a
mandanais 'has issued to an inferior tribunal, commanding it

to reverse or annul its decision,. where the decision was in its
nature a judicial act, and within the scope 'of its jurisdiction
and discretion. "
. These principles albply'with equal force to the proceedings
adopted by the court in making the. removal. •
' The statute of Minnesota, under which the court. acted,
directs that'the proceedings- to remove an attorney or counsellor must be taken by -the court, on its own motion,, for
idatter within its knowledge; or 4nay be taken on the information of another. And, in the latter case, it requires that. the
information should be, inwriting, *and notice be- givei to the
'pArty; and.a day givdn to him' to answer and deny the suffi.
ciency of the accusation, or deny its truth. '
. In this.case, it -appears that the offences charged were com'mitted 'in open court, .and the 'proceedings to remove the
relator were takeh'by the gourt upon its own motion. And
it appears by his affidavit that.he had no notice that the court
intendbd to proceed against him; had no opportunity of being
-heard in his defence, and did not know that he was dismissed
from'the liar until the term: was -closed, and the court -had
i'journed.to the next term.
. w; in proceeding to remove the relator, the court was
necessarily called'on to .decide whether, in a case where the
oAe'nce was"committed -in open court, and the proceeding was
had by the court on its o*Vn motion, the statute .ofMinnesota
iiquired that notice should be given to the party, and' an opportunity afforded, him to be heard in his defence. ' The court,
it seems, were of opinion that no notice was necessary, and
proceeded without. it; and, Whether. this decision -vas. erronep
ous or not, yet it vas~nadein the exercise of judicial authority; where the' subject-matter' was within their jurisdiction, and
it' cannot theefore be .revised and annulled in this form of
proceeding.

16

SUPREME COURT.
2ffe v. &uddq.

UpOn this view of the subject, it would be useless to grant
a rule to show cause; for if the Territorial court made a return stating what they had done, in the precise form in which
the sentence of dismissal now appears in thepapers exhibited
by the relator, a peiemptory mandamus could not issue to restore him to the office he has lost.
The motion must therefore be overruled.

WiLLiAm

A.

SHAFFER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
SCUDDAY.

v, JAmE s

A.

Im 1841, Congress granted to the State of Louisiana 500,000 acres of land, for the
purposes of'internal improvement, and in 1849 granted also the whole of the
swamp and overflowed lands-which may be found unfit for cultivating.
In both cases, Vatents were to be issued to individuals under State authority.
In a case of conflict between two claimants, under patents granted by the State of
Louisiana, this court has no jurisdigtion, under the 25th section of the judiciary
act, to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, given in favor
of one of the claimants.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Louisiana by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of ihe court.
It was argued by. Mr. Benjamin-for the plaintiff in error,
and Mr. Taylor for the defendant.
Upon the question of jurisdiction, Mr. Benjamin's point wag
as follows:
The Supreme Court of Louisiana decided, by a decree reversing the judgment'of the District Court, that the Secretary
of thenterior Twd no authority to make the decision revoking Scudday's locttion, and held his title superior to Shaffer's, who claimed
under an entry made on the authority of the Secretary's decision.
The case is therefore before the court under that clause of
the 25t1h section of the j udiciary act which empowers it to take
appellate jurisdiction from the highest State cours, where "is
drawn in question the validity of an authority exercised under
the United States, and .the decision is against the validity," and
is fully within thb principles decided in Chouteau v. 'Eckhart,
2 Howard, 344.
The sole question -in the cause, then, is, whether the Secretary had authority tq decide, and did rightly decide, that'
Scudday's location was null, and must be revoked.
This is hardly an open question-in this court.
The 8th section of the act 9 f 1841, under'which Scudday
a
th
drecs
tobe'mde
n "any
an pubic
clais, directs clazs,
the loctios
locations
to be' made on
public lan'

