246

SUPREME COURT.
Waims v. Rl4

a.

clusions in reference to the course of the schooner, and under
that mistaken impression went to the eastern side, and thus
encountered her. l1o orders were given by the pilot in respect to the management of the steamer till the instant of the
collision.
This court has decided that neither rain, nor the darkness of the night, nor the absence of a light from a barge or
sailing vessel, nor the fact that the steamer was well manned,
and furnished, and conducted with caution, will excuse the
steamer for coming in collision with the barge or sailing vessel, where the barge or sailing vessel is at anchor, or sailing in.
a thoroughfare, out of the usual track of the steam vessel. In
the present instance, the steamer had notice that a vessel was
before her, and was near her track, and, under the circumstances, she, was bound to take efficient measures to avoid the
schooner.
The only facts we notice in the management of the schooner, which have occasioned a hesitation to affirm the decree, are
the absence of a licensed pilot, and that the schooner did not
exhibit an efficient light. The proofs in the case do not allow
us to charge these omissions as indications of negligence; but,
that the case may not be misunderstood, we assert that the
ruling principle of the court isthat an obligation rests upon
all vessels found in the avenues of commerce to employ active
diligence to avoid collisions, and that no inference can be
drawn from the fact, that a vessel is not condemned for an
omission of certain precautionary measures in one case, that
another vessel will be excused, under other circumstances, for
omissions of the same description.
The decree of the Circuit Court is atmed.

Wtsixy WmumiAs,

G.RNISHEE O EDWARD F. MAnowE,
TIF IN ERR OR, V. HILL., MoLANE, & Co.

PLAiN-

The laws of Alabama provide, thatwherethere is a judgment against a debtorwho
Is unable to pay, a process of garnishment (which is called in some of the States
an attachment upon final process) piay be issued and laid in the hands of a gar-

nishee, who mayowe money to the judgment debtor,.or have any effects -within
the control of the garnishee.
The garnishee, having real property under his control by virtue of a dqed of trust,
cannot retain it for the purpose of reimbursing himself for advances made to the
judgment debtor after the eecution of the deed in execution of a parol contract
between them.
Where the garnishee skA up . claim to the funds In his laands, he must prove the
bona fides of his claim, if it is derived fiom the judgment debtor after the oTigIn

of the creditor's demand.

-

.

I

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
TWiams v. .2W e al
Therefore, where the garnishee produced notes signed by the judgment debtor,
bearing date prior to the judgment, but did not prove their existence.before the
judgment in consideration, it was properly left to the jury to say whether there
was fraud or collusion between the garnishee and the judgment debtor.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the middle district of Alabama.
The case is stated in the opinion of the -court.
It was argued by Mr. PHips for the plaintiff in error, and
H 4rdfor the defendant.

Xifr.

Mr. Phillips made the following points:
The answer of garnishee is required by the statute to be
under oath, and when not disproved, must be taken as true.
(Code, sec. 2,540; Davis v. Knapp & Shew, 8 Mo., 657; Kergen v. Dawson, 1 Gilman, 89; Muson v. Campbel, 2 Pike, 511.)
The plaintiff by the statute is allowed to "contrbvert" the
answer; that is, he may show it to be untrue. The present
code of Alabama does not point out the particular mode of proceeding; but when the issue is made up, it is evident the trial
must proceed as in other cases. The statute, as it existed before the adoption of the "code" in. express terms requires that
"an issue shall be formed and tried as in other cases. (Clay's D.,
p60,
see. 25; .1
Code,
, 2,546; Thomas v. Hopper, 5 Al.
.. I see.
191.442.)
ot only the answer denies any indebtedness, but the promissory notes produced and proved, import a consideration.
This by the law merchant and by the statute of Alabama.
(Code, p. 424, see. 2,278.)
By the well-established judicial construction of the attachment law, "no demand can be recovered by writ of garnish.
ment, on which the defendant in the judgment, who is also the
creditor of the garnishee, could not maintain debt or indebitatus assumpsit." (Self v. Kirkland, 24 A. R., 277.)
It follows that the proof required by the present plaintiff is
the same as would have been required of the defendant in the
judgment, if he had brought the suit. Could he have recovered
on.the evidence in this record?
I There being no evidence disproving or tending to disprove
the answer which denied any indebtedness, and nothing impeaching the consideration of the notes, there was no predicate
for the charge as to "fraud and collusion." The bill of exceptions sets out all the evidence in the cause. Where the
facmt are not disputed, fraud is a question of law. (Swii v.
Fitzhugh, 9 Port, 66, 67; Gillespie v. Battle, 15 A. R., 285.)

248

SUPREME COURT.
Maliams v. Bil dt al.

The points made by Mr. Hilliard were the following:
The answer of garnishee is not taken as true, when controverted by the plaintiff; his agent, or attorney. (Code, sec. 2,546.)
The code provides, that the answer of a garnishee being controverted by the oath of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney,
an issue nust be made up under the directionof the court; and if
required by either party, a jury must be empanelled to try
the facts. (Code, see. 2,546.)
The answer of garnishee is not evidence for hiiiiself upon the
trial of this issue; the onus of disproving the facts of the answer of garnishee does not rest on the plaintiff. (Travis v.
Taritt, 8 Ala., 574; Myatt v. Lockhart, 9 Ala., 94, 95.)
The only proof offered by garnishee to the court, and jury,
going to show that he was not indebted to defendant in execution, was that certain promissory notes had been made by said
defendant, but the date of said notes, or rather the 4tual trie
of their execution, did not appear from any testimony. They
were merely offered by garnishee as a set-off against the plaintiff's .suit for the excess of money remaining in garnishee's
hands after satisfying the debts provided for in the mortgages;
and the consideration of said notes was not in proof.
The charge of the court, if erroneous, is in favor of the garnishbe, and he cannot revise it in -this court.
The counsel for plaintiffs requested the court to charge the
jury, that their judgmnent against the defendant was a len on
his house and lot-; and that they were entitled to the proceeds
arising from the sale of said property, after the notes named in
the mortgages were satisfied. This charge the court refused.
If the court erred in this, then garnishee cannot complain of
it, nor can he of the remaining part of the charge; for if the
judgment of plaintiffs be a lien, then they can recover, irrespective of the question of fraud.
The charge should have been given by the colirt. (19 Ala.,
195, 196; 19 Ala., 753; 21 Ala., 504; Hazard v. Franklin,
2 Ala., 349.)
The charge of the court on the second point, as to fraud,
was clearly correct.
It was a question for the jury; the facts were disputed; the
very existence of the notes denied; the silence of garnishee respecting them, in his interview with plaintiff's counsel on the
day of sale; hig offer to relinquish his claim to the house and
lot, upon'being paid the remainder of the sum due on the notes
named in the mortgages; the good faith of the entire transactions between garnishee and defendant in execution being contested-all this, and other facts appearing in evidence, presented a case which a jury alone could decide. The very pro-

-DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Wlliam v. RB

249

d at.

ceeding, being an issue made up under-the code, was a question
of fraud or no-fraud, and either party was entitled to a jury.
(Code, sec. 2,546.)
The general principle, that no demand can be recovered by
writ of garnishment, on which the defendant in the judgment
could not recover, is conceded; but this principle does not
affect this case.
The court, if it erred, was in error in instructing the jury,
that if fraud existed between defendant and garnishee, then
defendant (Mahone) could not recover, in action against garnishee, (Williams,) the excess in the hands of garnishee arising
out of the sale of the house and lot.
Why could he not recover? Becauseof certain fictitious
notes, fraudulently executed by said defendant to said garnishee,
for the very purpose of defrauding creditors.
This is obviously incorrect; it ignores the very principle that
it seems to sustain, viz: that a party to a fraudulent contract
cannot invoke the aid of a court to sustain it.
Williams holds in his hands a fund arising out of a bonafide
transaction; and yet Mahone, to whom the fund belongs, cannot recover it, because Williams sets up these fictitious notes,
executed by Mahone, with a fraudulent intent. A set-off is in
the nature of a cross-action, and, by the ruling of the court,
Williams could recover upon fictitious and fraudulent notes.
But if the charge of the court be correct upon that point,
and if it be true that Mahone could not recover from Williams,
because of fraud, yet plaintiffs may subject the fund in the
hands of garnishee to their debt. A garnishee is called into
court to answer, not only as to his indebtedness to defendant,
but as to his having in his possession. the property, money, or
effects, of defendant. (See Record, p. 2.)
The jury, by their verdict, found, after reviewing all the testimony, that garnishee was indebted to defendant in execution,
and the judgment was correctly entered in favor.of plaintiffs
against garnishee, for the amount remaining in his hands, after
satisfying the debts secured by mortgage.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants recovered a judgment in the District Court,
'in a plea of debt against one Mahone. The latter having no
property in possession liable to an execution, the defendants,
in consequence, served a garnishment on the plaintiff, (Williams,) to attach any debt he might owe their debtor, or secure
any effects of theirs he might-have.
The garnishee'answered to the process, that on the day the
writ of garnishment issued, he had sold some personal property

250

SUPREME COURT.
Wilhama v. EilZ d ah.

of the debtor, under the authority of two deeds of trust, for the
satisfaction of the debts described in them; and there remaining a balance due, he sold. a house and lot, described in one
of the deeds, for a sum sufficient to extinguish those debts and
to leave a surplus. He further answered that Mahone, prior
to the judgment, was indebted to him upon another account,
and had so continued a debtor till the sale; that before the
judgment, and afterwards, before the sale, Mahone had
instructed him to apply any surplus that might arise from the
sale to the payment of that account; and he had done so, in
accordance with the instructions.
There was an issue formed upon the answer of the garnishee,
and the subject of the controversy was the claim of the
respective parties to the surplus above described.
The garnishee produced on the trial a number of promissory
andMahone
proved the
no s, dated prior to the judgment,that
a mitted
had signature
of Mahone to them; he also proved
the authority of the garnishee to apply the surplus to the payment of his demands, not described in the deeds, shortly after
the sale, and at.that time disclaimed any power to control it.
lNo evidence was given of the existence .of the notes of a day
prior'to the answer, nor of their consideration. The defeAants proved a conversation between their attorney and the
garnishee, on the day of the sale, relative to the amount of the
ebt from Mah( ne to him, and that the notes were not mentioned by him in that conversation. The court instructed the
jury that the inquiry for them was, whether there was fraud
or collusion between the garnishee and the debtor. That if
they found that the notes were made in fraud or collusion,
they would render a verdict in favor of the attaching creditors,
for the amount of the surplus in the hands of the garnishee.
This charge includes the substance of all the questions presented to the court or jury.
We think the case was submitted as favorably for the
garnishee as the facts warranted, and that he has no reason to
complain in consequence of the instructions given or refused.
The plaintiff is not entitled to hold the surplus in his hands
arising from the sale of the trust property,.for the payment of
the notes, under any stipulation in the deeds. Those provide
for a return of the surplus to the grantor, after the payment
of the debts described. INor can the real prop' rty conveyed
in the deed be retained as a security for advances, or debts
subsequently made on the strengt.h of a parol engagement.
Such a contract would be avoided by the statute of frauds.
Nor is the deed of trust such a conveyance or title-paper as to
afford a security, as a deposit, for subsequent engagements.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
WiIaM. V. MZegal.

In z parte Hooper, (1 Meri. Oh. R., 7,) Lord Eldon said:
"The doctrine- of equitable mortgage by deposit of title-deed
has been too long established to be now disputed- :but it may
be said that it ought never to have been established. I am
still more dissatisfied with the principle upon which I have
acted, of extending the original doctrine so as to make the
deposit a security for subsequent advances. At all events, the
doctrine is not to be enlarged. In the present case, the legal
estate has been assigned, by way of mortgage. The mortgagee
is not entitled to say this conveyance is a deposit, because the
contract under which he holds it is a contract for conveyance
only,.and not for deposit."
The only other title that the garnishee has interposed against
the claim of the Attaching creditor is, that the debtor made a
valid appropriation of the surplus arising from the sale, to the
satisfacti6n of a bonajfe demand of the garnishee against him,
prior to the service of the garnishment. The principle adopted
by the courts of Alabama for such cases is, that the adverse
claimant for property or effects seized at the suit of a creditor
by attachment or execution, must prove the bona fides of his
M, if it is derived from the debtor after the origin of the
creditor's demand ; and the declarations or acknowledgments
of the debtor will not be received to support the title. The
iecitals in a deed or mortgage executed by him, or admissions
made at the time of its execution, will not be received. (Goodgame v. Cole, 12 Ala., 77; Nolen & Thompson v. Gwinn, 16
Ala., 725.) Nor is the consideration of a note in favor of the
claimant shown by the production of the note itself. (De
Vendell v. Malone, 25 Ala., 272.) The objection to such
evidence is said to be, that it can be manufactured by one
indebted, and by that means a creditor might be defeated;
for, in most cases, it would not be practicable for him to prove
a negative, or disprove the statement made by his debtor. In
the present case, the consideration of the notes was not proved;
nor was their existence before the service of the garnishment
shown otherwise than by their date-that is, by an -assertion
of the debtor. Nor was the order to appropriate the surplus
to their payment proved, except by an acknowledgment to a
stranger, after the writ of garnishment had been issued.
The bona ides of the title of the garnishee to the surplus in
his hands was not supported by competent proof, and therefore
the lien of the garnishment was properly maintained.
The plaintiff contends that the proceeding by garnishment
is a. statutory proceeding, by -which a creditor is enabled to
reach a demandn favor of his debtor against a third person;

262

SUPREME COURT.
BeU v. Heame et al.

and that the remedy can only be resorted to when the debtor
himself could iiaintain debt or indebitatus assumpsit; and
that the only issue which can be made upon an answer of the
garnishee is, indebitatus vel non. The Supreme Court of
Alabama have decided, in the cases cited, that merely equitable
demands or rights of action, not involving a debt or assumpsit,
are not the subject of the garnishee process. But the same
court has determined that money or effects in the hands of the
garnishee, which are fraudulently withdrawn from the creditors
of a defendant, may be reached, in an attachment or judgmen,
by that process. hazard v. Franklin, 2 Ala., 349; Lovely v.
Caldwell, 4 Ala., 684, and the civil code of Alabama, see.
2,523, provides explicitly for the attachment of a demand
similar to that existing in this case.
Judgment affirmed.

JonN

BELL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. COLUMBUS C. HEARNE,
SAMUEL R. HEARNE, AND SAMUEL H. DOCKERY.

The act of Congress of 1820 and regulations of the General Land Office of 181
direct the manner in which purchases of public land shall be authenticated by
the registers and receivers of the land offices.
Where the receiver gave a receipt in the name of John Bell, and the register made
two certificates of .purchase, one in the name of John Bell and the other in the
name of James Bell, the circumstances of the case show that the latter was an
error which was properly corrected by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office in the exercise of his supervisory authority; and he had a right to do thIs,
although a patent had been issued to James Bell, which had been reclaimed
from the register's office, and returned to the General Land Office to be cancelled.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana having decided against the validity of the patent
issued to John Bell, this court has jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of
the judiciary act to review that judgment; and the ground of the decision of the
State court sufficiently appears upon the record.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court
It was argued by Mr. Baxter and Mr. Tohnson for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Lawrence and 31r. Taylor for the defendants.
The following notice of the points for the plaintiff in error is
taken from the brief of Mr. Baxter:
I. John Bell was the purchaser of the land from the United
States, andJames Bell had no right or interest in it.

