DECMBOER TERM, 1856.

211

Haruhorn e aL v..Da,.

We order that the judgment be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, to be further proceeded in.

ISAAC HARTSHoiN AND DARIEL HAYWARD, PLnAIrIs n ERRoR v. HoRAcE H. DAY.
"Where a patentee is about to. apply for a renewal of his patent, and agrees with
another person that, in case of success1 he will assign to him the rene*ed patent,
and the patent is renewed, such an agreement is valid, and conveys to the assignee
an equitable title, which can be converted into a legal title by paying, or offering
to pay, the stpulated consideration.
in

agreement lietween Chaffee, the patentee, and Judaon, after the renewal, reci-

ting that the latter had stipulated to pay the expenses of the renewal, nd make
an allowande to the patentee of $1,200 a year, during the renewed term, and
then declaring: "Now, L (Chaffee)4o hereby, in consideration of the premises,

and to place my patent so that in case of mydeath, or other accident or event, it
may entire to the benefit of Charles.Goodyear, and those who hold right to the
use of sald patent, under and in onnection with his licensee s, &c., nominate, constitute, and appoint, said William Judson my trustee and attorney irrevocable,
to hold said patent and have the control thereof, so as none shall have alicense
to use said patent or invention, &e., other than those who had a right when said
patent was extended, without the written consent of said Judson, &c.," -passed
the entire ownership in the patent, legal and equitable, to Judson, for the benefit
of Goodyear and those holding rights under him.
If this annuity was -not regularly paidd, the original patentee had no right to revoke the power of attorney, and assign the patent to another party. His right to
the a nuity rested in covenant, for a.breach of which he had an adequate remedy
at law.
Evidence tending to show that the agreement between the patentee and the attorney had been produced by the fraudulent representations of the latter, in respect
to transactions out ofwhich the agreement arose, ought not to have been received,
It being a sealed instrument.
In a court of law, between parties or privies, evidence of fraud is admissible only
wheie it goes to the question whether or not the instrument ever had any legal
existence. But it was especially proper to exclude it in this case, where the
agreement had been partly executed, and'rights of long standing had grown up
under it;

T.Hi case was brough&t up, by writ~of error, from the Cir_
cuit Court of the United States for -the distiict of Rhode
Island.
It was an action brought by Day against Harishorn and
Hayward, for the violation of a patent for the pre aration and
application of India-rubber to cloths,' granted to '. M. Chaffee
in1836, and renewed for seven years in 1850. Day claimed
under an assignnent of this patent from Ohaffee, on the 1st of
July, 1863.The de.fences taken by Hartshorn and Hayward
are stated in the opinion of the court, in which there is also a
succinct narrative of the whole case.

212

SUPREME COURT.
Harteloni dt at. v. Day.

The defendants below first pleaded four special pleas, which
were overruled upon demurrer. They then gave notice of
eleven defenceg, assailing the validity of the patent. The
record was very voluminous, being upwards of a thousand
printed pages. One hundred and thirty-five exceptions were
taken during the progress of the trial, which lasted for six
weeks. After the testimony was closed, the counsel for'the
defendants offered seventy-four propositions to the court, by
way of instruct;.on to the jury, and six supplemental ones with
regard to the fraud alleged to have been practised upon Chaffee by Judson. The court then charged the jury as contained
in fifteen printed pages of the record, and the case came up to
this court upon the following exception:
-The court refused to instruct the jury as requested -by the
defendant's counsel, except so far as the propositions presented
by them wore adopted or approved in the char e as made, and
refused to charge otherwise than as the juryhadbe.en instructed.
The defendant's counsel excepted to such refusals, respectively,
and also to the refusal of said court ds to each of-said requests.
They also excepted to each instruction given by the court contrary to such requests, or either of therii.
All this vast mass of matter was open to argument ffi this
court.
It was argued by Mr. O'Connor, upon a brief filed by himself and .Mr.Brady for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Bichardsonand Mr. Jenckes for the defendant, upon which side, also,
a printed argument was filed by Mr. Gillet.
There is only room to notice the general points taken by the
respective counsel, omitting all subdivisions and illustrations.
These woald occupy half a volume. The points made on behalf of the plaintiffi in error were the following:
First Point-:.The agreement of May 23, 1850, was a valid
executory agreement by Chaffee to sell and convey to Goodyear the renewed patent now in question, in case such a patent
should issue; ans, upon its issue,, tbhe equitable ownership
thereof vested in Goodyear, subject only to the license reserved
to Chaffee to use it in 'his own business. (Curtis on Patents,
'secs. 195, 196.)
Seaond Point.-Chaffee having, by the agreement of September 5, 1850, without notice to Goodyear, without his onsent
and, as it would appear, against his will, rmade another deposition of the patent, and having thereby put it entirely out of
his (Chaffee'sy power to execute a formal assignment to 'Goodyea, ana thus entitle himself to the payment of the $1,00 by

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

218

HarAon- d aL. v. Day.

Goodyear, which formed the only condition precedent to a
complete investiture of Goodyear with at least the whole equitable ownership of the patent, he, Chiffee, and Day, his asfrom availing themselves of such nonsignee, are
by precluded
Goodyear as an objection to the use of the patented
payment
invention by Goodyear and his licensees.. (Hockster v. Del"
tour,.2 Ellis-aud Blackburn, 688, and cases cited.).
Third Point.-The agreement between Chaffee and Judson,
dated September 5, 1850,'construed by itself alone, or in connection With the supplement thereto, dated November 12, 1851,
and whether read, as it rightfully may bd, in the light of surrounding and attending circunstances, or without such aid,
(6 Peters, 68,) was, on the part of Chaffee, an executed con.
tract. No further act of any kind was to be performed on his
part; and, as it contained no condition subsequent, nor any
clause of cessor, 'nor any feservation of power to rescind for
any cause, the interest vested by it in Judson and his cestuig
que trust could not be divested by Judson's omission to make
prompt and punctual payments of the aninity. (Brooks et al.
v. Stolley, 3 McLean, 526; Woodworth v. Weed, I Blatch., 165.)
Fourth Point.-Although it is not deemed material whether
the interest acquired by udson under the agreenents between
him and Chaffee was of an equitable, or legal character, it is
submitted that the wh6le legal title to thepatent was thereby
vested in Judson, subject to the license reserved to Chaffee to
use the invention in his .own business.
.fth Poiht.-If the grant or agreement set forth in the paper dated September 5, 1850, is to be regarded as having been
authenticat~d by the seal of Chaffee, and the actual execution
by him, when of sound mind, of full age, and with knowledge
of its cohtents, was established, neither Chaffee, nor Day, the
plailtift, who was his assignee and privy in estate, could be
permitted to allege or prove, in a court of common law, for the
purpos!e of defeating such grant or agreement, or for the purpose ofvarying its efect, that Chaffee was induced to execute
it by threats of a lawsuit, or of hostility, or by fise, dedeitful,
or fraudulent representations.
six to ot.-The court below erred in admitting the evidence of Woodman and Chaffee, touching the alleged fraudulent representations, and also in submittn-g the allegation of
-fraud to the jury, notwithstanding Woodman's professed nonrecollection that the instrument bore a seal when executed-, and
his asserted, but groundless disbelief of that fact.
Sventh Point.-Independently of the positions assumed in
the preceding fifth and sixth points, the court erred in submitting it to-the jury, to find that the instrument of September 5,

214

SUPREME COURT.
Harahom d al.v. Day.

1850, was obtained by fraud, because there was no legal evidence
the case
to related
supporttothat
(Theinother
points
theallegation.
pleas and demurrers.)
he points made on behalf of the defendant in error are
taken from the brief of Mr.Jenek, omitting all except those
which relate to the power of Ohafi'ee to revoke the power of

attorney to Judson, and to assign the patent to Day.
I. The paper of the 5th of September, 1850, supposing it to
have been untainted with fraud, conveyed no interest iii the
extended patent to Judson, or to Goodyear and his licensees.
There is no word of grant or conveyancein it. It does not
purport to give a license directly to Goodyear or his licensees.
It gives J~ds6n no power to grant licenses to any one.
I. The paper of the 5th September, 1850, offered a license
to no persons except those who had a right to use the Chaffee
patent at the time of its extension.
Hartshorn had no license to use the inventions of either
Goodyear or Chaffee during the original term of the Chaffee
patent. His license to use Goodyear's- inventions was given
on thelst bf February, 1851.
1M. The legal title of the patent remained in Chaffee, and
any action at law for an infringement must have been brought
in his name, before his assignment to the defendant in errgr.
IV.. The instrument bearing-date November 12th, 1851, being between the same parties, and having relation to the same
subject-matter, and purporting to be mae for the purpose of
correcting errors and omissions in the instrument of September
5th, 1850, the two must be taken togother s one instrument,
and be so construed.
V. This instrument makes clear what was of doubtful construction in.
the former paper, and defines and limits the power
9f Judson, and the rights -and interests which Goodyear and
his licensees were to receive, and sets forth the conditions on
which they were to receive them.
Judson is, for the first time, empowered fo grant licenses as
Chaffee's attorney, and Goodyear and his licensees are to have
licendes through Judson, solely upon the condition of their
severally contributing their share of the-amount due Judson
for services and expenses.
, Judson was not empowered .to license any others but the
Goodyear licensees.
ith respect to all other persons, the power to.license was
annexed to the legal title which remained in Chaffee. Judson'
was authorized to sue infringers, but-he was not required to
do so. If the Goodyear licensees should mot pomply with the
condition'on which the, were to receive a license to .use the

DECEMBER T ,RM,1856.

215

Hari-*o, d at. v. Day.

Chaffee patent, they might be sued as infringers, and Judson
could reimburse himself out of the damages, or by compromising the suit by giving them a license on the terms required.
Chaffee had a right to impose this or any other condition, and
he *as interested in .having this condition performed, as he
would thereby be relieved from his debt to Judson.
VL So far- as regards the rights of Chaffee, Goodyear and
his licensees, and Judson, this instrument is a substitute for
the provisions respecting the same subject-matter in that of
I
September 5th, 1850. *
These parties are bound by the facts recited in it, or which
.are necessarily to be inferred from it.
VI. Neither of these instruments gives Judson any interest
ih the patent itself, or in the profits of the patent, nor do
they give him a right to-use it, or to license others to use
it, except upon conditions precedent, clearly and distinctly
specified. Chaffee intended to give him security for the debt
due him, and pointed- out the fund from which the debt was
to be paid, if the parties named should keep their agreement;
and Judson took for his security a mere power to collect his
dues out of this fund by selling licenses, or by suing for
damages. .The only interest which Judson took was in the
money which might be produced by licenses or by suit, and
to the extent of his claim for money advanced for services and
expenses.
VI This instrument of November 12, 1851, was also executory, and is, governed by the rules of law applicable to contracts executoryin their nature, and to powers.
So fir as the licenses were concerned, Chaffee was the, contncting party on the one part, and Goodyear and his licensees
on the other. The contract was not executed until the licensees
had complied with the conditions under which they were to
-have a license, and Chaffee parted with nothing until such
performance by them. If they neglected or refused to comply, his right of rescission was perfect.
. So far as Judson was concerned, he held merely a power,
from the proceeds of the execution oftwhich he was to be paid,
and to that extent the power operated as a security, and such
power was revocable at any time, upon payment of the amount
"of Powers
the debt.to
sell on mortgages are declared to be irrevocable
in.terms, but- the deed and power together are cancelled by
payment of the mortgage debt.
A power taken for security is revocable by the death of the
grantor of the power. (Hunt v. Rousmaniere's Executors, 8
W¥heat., 174.)
-

216

SUPREME COURT.
Harteharn etal. v.Day.

It is also revocable by the party giving it. (Mansfield v.
Mansfield, 6 Conn., 559.)
In this case, the principlep of the former case are adopted
and carried out to their legitimate conclusions.'
A power is irrevocable only when there is an express stipulation that it shall be irrevocable, and when the agent has an
interest in its execution. Both of these circumstances must
concur. (Story on Agency, sec. 476.)
The interest ceased, when Judson was offered the money for
all his disbursements and services. There is no stipulation in
the power of the 12th of November, 1851, that it shall be irrevocable. h
ItX. If the paper of the 5th September, 1850, be construed
to give a license directly to Goodyear and his-licensees, upon
their paying the expenses and annuity, then such license is
revocable if the conditions be not performed.
The instrument contains no words of grant or conveyance
known to the common law. There are no 'bovenants which
would create an estoppel. The Goodyear licensees obtained
nothing more than a license, not connected with any grant, or
made part of aniy grant. Such a license is revocable at common law. (Thomas v. Lovell, Vaughan, 351.)
"A dispensation or license properly passeth no interest nor
alters nor transfers property in anything, but only makes an
action lawful, which without it would have been unlawful."
(Wood v. Leadlitter, 13 Mees. and W., 843.)
"A license is in its nature revocable."
X. Hartshorn & Co. were not within the class of persons
described in the paper of the 5th of September, 1850, nor in
the class to whom Judson was authorized to give licenses by
th6 piper of the 12th of November, 1851.
XI. The question of the performance of the condition of the.
papers of September 5, 1850, and November 12, 1851, after
the papers had been construed by the court, wai a question of
fact for the jury.
XII. If the jury had found that there was a failure on the,
part of Judson and of Goodyear and'his licensees to perform
their part of the agreement of September. 5, 1850; that the
annuity had'not been paid; that the Shoe Associates knew of
the non-.payment; that Judson was the agent of Goodyear and
his licensees in makiig the paper of 12th of November, 1851,
and of the Shoe Associates in all matters relating to the Chaffee
patent since its extension; and that there had been an offer in
good faith to repay Judson all that had been expended by himself or advanced by the Shoe Associates, on account of this
extended patent; then, upon these facts, the revocationi of the

DECEM1BER TERM, 1856.
Hartshon e al. v. Day.

powers given to Judson and the rescission'of those contracts
was proper on the part of Chaffee.
The instrument of revocation, the tender of all sums due to
Judson, and the notice to Hartshorn & Co., were sufficient.
XIII. The title did not pass from Chaffee by the contracts
of May 23, 1850, September 5, 1850, and November 12, 1851,
in connection with the instrument executed between Goodyear
and his licensees, dated July 1, 1848, in consideration of Judson's agreement in the paper of September 5, 1850, according
to the prayer for instruction to the jury, which is made the
subject of Exception 1.
XIV. One test of the right of rescission or revocation is, to
inquire whether the contract is one that a court of equity would
specifically enforce, under the circumstances existing at the
time the.rescission or revocation is sought to be made..
"The rules of law relating to specific performance, and those
applied to the rescission of contracts, although not identically
the same, have a near affinity to each other." (Boyce's Executors v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 210, 216.)
The remaining points are omitted.
Mr. Justice NFESON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the judgment of the Circuit Court
of the United States, holden by the district judge in and for
the district of Rhode Island.
The action was brought by Day against the defendants below, for an alleged infringement of a patent for the preparation
and application- of India-rubber to cloths, granted to E. M.
Chaffee, August 31, 1836, and renewed for seven years from
the 31st August, 1850. The plaintiff claimed to be the assignee of the patent from Chaffee. The defendants sought to
protect themselves under a-license derived from Charles Woodyear, whom they insisted was the owner, and not Day, of the
renewed patent. Goodyear became the owner of the unexpired term of the original patent on the 8th July, 1844, and
on the same day granted to certain persons, called "The Shoe
Associates," the exclusive use of all his improvements in the
manufacture of Ihdia-rubber, patented, or to be patented; during the term of any patents or renewals which he might own,
or in which he might be interested, "so far as the same are,
or may be; applicable to the manufacture of boots and shoes."
.The defendants claimed a license under the Shoe Associates.
Chaffee, the. original patentee, made application to the Commissioner of Patents, the 22d May, 1850, for the renewal of
his patent, in which he states that the then present owners
were willing and desirous that it should be renewed, and in

218

SUPREME COURT.
HarUon

a . v. Day.

that event that they ought to make him farther compensation
for the invention. An on the next' day, 23d May, 1850, he
entered into an agreement -with Goodyear, in which he stipu-

lated to convey to him the patent, on its renewal for the extended term, in consideration of three thousand dollars.
There seems to have been some agreement or understanding
that the then owners of the patent, and their licensees, should
be at the expense of the renewal.
Willian Judson had become interested in one-eighth of the
patent in 1846, by an assignment from Goodyear; and in 1848
he, in conjunction with Seth P. Stap les, was appointed by
Goodyear his attorney and agent, in taking out, renewing, extending, and defending his patents; and a fund was provided
by Goodyear for defraying the expenses of these proceedings,
and placed in the hands of Judson. By the consent of Goodyear, Judson subsequently became his sole agent and trustee
of the fund for the purposes mentioned.
The patent was renewed, in pursuance of the application, on
the 80th August, 1850. Soon after this renewal, to wit, on
the 5th September, 1850, an areement was entered into between Chaffee and Judson, which recites the renewal, and that
the expenses were large, and also that at the time of the renewal the patent was held by Goodyear for the benefit of himself and his licensees; and, further, that he had agreed with
Chaffee, for himself- and those using the patent under him,
that they would be at the expense of the extension, and make
an allowance to-him, Chaffee, of $1,200 per annum, payable
quarterly, during the period of the extension; and reciting also
that Judson had had the management of the application for
the renewal, and had paid, and'became liable to pay, the expenses thereof, and had agreed to guaranty the payment of
the annuity of $1,200; and the agreement then provided as
follows: "Now, I (Chaffee) do hereby, in consideration of the
premisesa and to place my patent so that in case of my death,
or other accident or event, it may enure to the benefit of said
Charles Goodyear, and those who hold a right to the use of
said .patent, under and in connection with his licensees, according to the understanding of the parties' interested, nominate,
constitute, and appoint said William Judson my trustee and
attorney, irrevocable, to hold said patent, and have the control
thereof, so as no one shall have a license to use said patent or
invention, or the improvements secured thereby, other than
those who had a right to use the same when said patent was
extended, without the written consent of said Judson first had
atid obtained."
At the close of the agreement, Judson stipulates with Chaf-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Hartshom eg al. K. Day.

fee to pay all the expenses of the renewal, and also the annuity
of $1,200; and also to be at all the expense of sustaining and
defending the patent; and Chaffee reserves to himself the right
to use the improvement in his own business.
This contract was entered into without the privity of Goodyear, and changed materially the terms and conditions of that
made by him. with Ehaffee on the 23d May. He was at first
dissatisfied with the change when it came to his notice, but
afterwards acquiesced.
The contract continued in operation down to the 12th November, 1851, when a modification of the same took place.
This last contract recites that there was an omission in that
of 6th September, in not stating that if the said licensees continued to use the improvements, they should pay their just
proportion of-the expenses and services mn obtaining the renewal, which it was intended they should pay to Judson; and
recites also thatJthere was no stipulation on the part of Judson
to pay Ohaffee $1,500 per annum, as claimed by him; and it is
then agreed that the licensees shall pay their share of the expenses to Judson, as a condition to the granting of a license
by him to them; and that, on the payment of such share of the
expenses, a license shall be granted to them. A&nd it was
per
$1,500
farther agreed, that Judson should pay Ohaffee thename
in the
annum; and also that Judson might use Ohaffee's

prosecution of infringements of the patent, or for any other
purpose in relation to the use of it, he holing Ohaffee harmless from all costs, &c., and he, Judson, to have all the benefits to be derived from said suits.
It will be perceived that the only provision in this agreement differing from that of 6th September, in which Ohaffee
has any interest, is the one providing for an annuity of $1,500,
instead of the $1,200. All the other provisions are for the benefit
of Judson. This annuity was paid down to the 1st December,
1852, when some difficulty arose between Judson and Chaffee,
and the payment ceased.
And on the 1st July thereafter, Chaffee undertook, in consequence of this default, to revoke and annul the power and
control of Judson over the patent4 and to forbid his acting in
any way or manner under the agreements of the 6th September, and of the 12th November, above referred to. And on
the same day, for the consideration of $11,000, assigned the
renewed patent to Day, the plaintiff in this suit. Day, on the
2d July, 1853, gave notice to Judson of the assignment, offering to pay, at the same time, all sums there might be due him,
if any there were, for moneys advanced in procuring the extension of the patent, or in any other way paid for Chaffee on

220

SUPREME COURT.
Haruhrn

a.

T.

Dat.

account of 'said patent. The above is the substance of the
case, as appears from the written agreements of the parties in
the re~ord. The questions involved turn essentially upon the
points:
1. As to the operation and effect to be given to the three
agreements which have been referred to, and especially of
that of the 6th September, 1850, between Chaffee and Judson;
and
2. The force and effect of the attempted rescindment of
these agreements by Chaffee, on the 1st July, 1853, on account of the neglect or refusal of Judson to pay the annuity of
$1,500.
. 1. It is not important to examine particularly the agreement
between Goodyear and Chaffee of 23d May, as that was, in
effect, supe-rseded by the one entered into with Judson, the
6th of September, to which Goodyear afterwards assented.
It is important only as leading to the latter agreement, and
may therefore assist in explaining its provisions.
By this first agreement, Chaffee bound himself to assign to
Goodyear the renewed patent, as soon as it was obtained, for
the eonsideration of $3,000. Goodyear became thus equitably
entitled to the entire interest in the patent during the extended term, and 'could have invested himself with the legal title
on the payihent, or offer to pay the three thousand dollars,
had he not subsequently acquiesced in the modification of it
with Juidson. Judson was the owner, jointly with Goodyear,
of one-eighth of the patent. He was also the agent and attorney of Goodyear, generally, in his applications for patents, in
obtaining renewals, and in the litigation growing out of the
business; and was. the trustee of a fund provided by Goodyear
to meet the expenses. It was, doubtless, on account of this
interest of Judson in the improvement, and his general authority from Goodyear in the management of bis patent concerns, that led him to enter into the new arrangement with
Chaffee,. of the 6th September, in the absence of his principal.
Goodyear might have repudiated it, and insisted upon the fulfilnent of the first agreement. He thought fit, however, after
a, full knowledge of the facts, to acquiesee; and his rights,
therefore, and those claiming under him, must depend upon
this second agreement.
. In respect to this agreemen whether the title which passed
from Chaffee, in the renewed patent to Judson, was legal or
equitable, the court is of opinion that the entire interest and
ownership in the same passed to him for the benefit of Good7ear, and ,those holding rights and licenses under him. The
cially driwn, b ut the intent and
instrument is very i

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Harthorn et al. Y. Day.

object of it cannot be mistaken. Chaffee, in consideration of
the premises, which included the annuity of $1,200, "and (in
his own language) to place my (his) phtent so that in case 6f
death, or other accident or event, it (the patent) may enure to
the benefit of said Charles Goodyear, and those who hold a
right to the use of said patent, under and in connection with
his licensees," &c., nominates and appoints "said William
Judson, my trustee and attorney irrevocable, to hold said
patent, and have the control thereof; so'that no one shall have
a license, &c., other than those who had a right to use the
same -when said patent was extended, without the written
consent of said Judson;" and at the close of the agreement,
he reserves the right to -use the improvement in his own
business. At this time, as we have seen,, Judson was the
owner of one-eighth of the patent, and was the general agent
and attorney of Goodyear in all his patent business transactions. It is apparent that the only interest in the patent, left
in Chaffee, was the right reserved for his own personal use.
Theannuity and indemnity against the expenses of the renewal
were the compensation received by him for parting with the
improvement. The contract of the 12th N'ovember has no
material bearing upon this part of the case. Most of the
provisions were for the benefit of Judson, in relation to the
censees under Goodyear. The only provision important to
Chaffee is the stipulation for the increased annuity of $1,500.
2. Then, as to the attempted rescindment of the contracts.
The agreement- of 6th September had been in force from its
date down to the 1st July, 1853, a period of two years and
nearly ten months. During all this time, the licensees of
Goodyear, at the date of the renewal of the patent, and those
whom Judson may have granted a license to since the renewal,
had a right to use the improvement, and especially the Shoe
Associates, referred to in their agreement with Goodyear, 1st
July, 1848. Besides this stipulation with Goodyear, their
right was expressly recognised by Chaffee himself, in the
agreement with Judson- of 6th of September.
The effect of the rescindment as claimed, and which would
be necessary to enable the plaintiff to succeed in his action
against the defendants, would be to break up the business of
these licensees, by divesting them of their rights under this
agreement-rights acquired under it from all parties connected
with or concerned in the patent, and especially from Chaffee,
the patentee, who placed it in the hands of Judsjn, for the
benefit of -Goodyear and those holding under him. The effect
would also be to deprive Goodyear or Judson, or whichever
of them had paid the expenses of obtaining the renewal, of the

222

SUPREM
Hartchn e a

COURT.
. Day.

equivalent for those expenses, except as Ihey might have a
.ersonal remedy against Chaffee. -Tothe extent above stated,
the agreement of the 6th .September was already executed,
and, in respect. to parties concerned, the abrogation would'
work the most serious consequences.
As we have already said, the ground upon which the right
to put an end to the agreement is the refusal to pay the annuity
of V1,500 after December, 1852. Judson proposed to Chaffee
to resume the payment in June, 1863, which was declined;
but we attach no importance to this fact, especially as we are
in'A court-of law. But, in looking into the a eements of the
6th of September, and also the one of the 12 of November,
the court is -of opinioi? that the payment of the annuity was
not a condition to the vesting. of the interest in the patent in
Judson, -and of course -that the omission or refusal to pay did
not give to Chaffee a right to rescind the contract, nor have
the effect to remit him to. his interest as patentee. The right
to the annuity rested in covenant, under the agreement of the
12th of November. One of the-objects of that areement was,
to obtain from*Judson this covenant.. From the terms and
intent of the. Agrb.ment; the remedy for'the breach could rest
only upon the' ersonal obligation of Judson, as, by the previous
:ie of the 6th of Sbptembe, the iiterest in the patent had
passed to .Goodyear and his licensees, and no default or act of
Tudson could affect them. Chaffee chose to be satisfied with
the covenant of Judcson,-without stipulation or condition as it
respected the other parties, and he must be content with it.
The cases of Brooks v. Stolly, (3McLean, 526,) and Woodworth v. Weed, (l-Blatchford, 165,) have no application to this
case'.

The attempt to rescind the contracts, being thus wholly
inoperative and'void, in the,iopinioni of the court, of course no
interest in the patent passed, to Day i under the assignment of.
the 1st July, 1853.
-Evidence was given on the trial in the eburt below, for the
purpose of proving that the agreement of the 6th of September
was procured from Chaffee by the fraudulent representations
" .,
of Judson, which was objected to, but admitted.
The general rule is, that in an action upon a sealed -instrument in a court of law, failure of consideration, or fraud in the
consideration, for the purp6se of avoiding the obligation, is
not admissiblo -as between parties and privies to the' deed;
and,'more especially, where there has been a part execution
of the contract.. The. difficulties are in adjusting. the rights
and equities of the parties in a court of law; and hence, in the
States where the two . systems of jurisprudence prevail, of

DECEMBER TERI& 1856.
Har,.1m

223

e aL. v. Day.

equity and the common law, a court of law refuses to open
the question of fraud in the consideration, -or in the transaction
out of which the consideration arises, in. a suit upon the sealed
instrument, but turns the partyover to a court of equity, where
the instrument can be set aside upon such terms as, under all
the circuimstances, may be equitable and just between the parties. A court of law can hold no middle course; the question
is limited to the validity or invalidity of the deed.
Fraud in the execution of the instrument has always been
admitted in a court of-law, as where it has bden misread, or
some other fraud or imposition has been practised upon the
party in procuring his signature and .sqal. 1Ihe fraud in this
aspect goes to~the question whether or not the instrument ever
had any .legal existence. (2 J. R., 177; 13 b., 430; 5 Cow.,
506; 4 Wend., 471; 6 Munf., 358; 2 Rand., 426; 10 S. and
R., 25; 14 Tb., 208; 1 Alab., 100; 7 Misso., 424; 4 Dev. and
Bat., 436;_.,_nd M,-:Notes; part 2, p. 615, 1ote 306, ed.
Gould & B4nks, 1850.)
It is said that fraud vitiates all contracts, and even records,
which is doubtless true in a general sense. But it must. be
reached in some regular and authoritative mode; and this may
depend upon the forum in which it is presefited, and also upon
the parties to the litigation. A record of judgment may be
avoided for fraud, but not between the-paries or privies in A
?
_
court of law.
The case in hand illustrates the impropriety and-injustic6
of ddmitting evidence of fraud to defeat agreements of the
character in question:in a court of law.. We have a record
before us of 1,055 closely-printed pages of evidence submitted
to the jury, and a trial of the duration of some six weeks.
Goodyear and his licensees had acquired vested and valuable
rights under the agreements in this patent, and who were in
no way privy -to, or connected with, the alleged fraud, nor
piarties to this suit; and yet it is assumed, and without the
assumption the fraud would be immaterial, that the effect of
avoiding the agreements would be to -abrogate these right'.
They *had been in the gjoyment of them for nearly three
years, and may have invested large amounts of capital in the
confidence of their validity. They were derived. from Chaffee
,himself, the patentee'of the improvement..' A court of equity,
on an application b him to set aside the agreements on the
round of fraud, would have required that these third parties
in interest should have been made parties to the suit, and
'would have protected their rights, or secured them against
loss, if it interfered at all, upon the commonest principles of

equity jurisprudence.

SUPREME COURT.

224

Mater v.

mr son.

Some slight evidence was given in the court below, upon the
question whether the agreement of the 6th of September was
sealed at the time of the execution. But the instrument
produced was sealed, and is recited in the subsequent agreement of the 12th November, as an agreement signed and sealed
by the parties.
A question was also made, as to the authority of the Shoe
Associates to grant a license to the defendants. But they held
under Goodyear the right to the exclusive use of the improvement for the manufacture of boots and shoes. They were
competent, therefore, to confer the right upon the defendants.
Besides, the point is not material in the view the court have
taken of the case, as upon that view no interest in the patent
vested in the plaintiff under the assignment from Chaffee.
It will be seen, by a reference to the bill of exceptions, that
upon our conclusions in respect to several points raised in the
case, the rulings in the court below were erroneous, and consequently the judgment must be reversed, and a venire de
novo awarded.

HORATIO

N.

SLATER,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHARLES

Where a railroad company became embarrassed, and were unable to pay the contractor, and a person interested in the company agreed to give the contractor
his individual promissory notes if he would finish the work by a certain day,
the contractor cannot recover upon the notes, unless he finishes the work within
the stipulated time.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by M1r. Bates and Mr. Bartlett for the plaintiff
in error, and by .r. Hutchins upon a brief filed by himself and
Mr. Ch6&te for the defendant.
•
The following points on behalf qf the plaintiff in error are
taken from the brief of Mr. Bartlett,as being more condensed
than those stated in the brief of Mr. Bates:
I. The single question is, whether by the true and rational
construction of the contract it was agreed and understood be
tween the parties that the doing the work within the time pre.

