66

SUPREME COURT.
Lathrop v. Tuon.

principal questions are: 'Was the verdict and judgment correct? Was the male of the engraved plate, on execution, the
sale of the copyright? Did such sale authorize the defendants,
or any other person, to print and sell this literary production,
still subsistino under a copyright in the plaintiff. And he
refers to 14 Ioward, 528, Stevens v. Cady. In that case this
court held that a sale of the copperplate for a map, on execution, does not authorize the purchaser to print the map.
Two or three depositions, not certified with the record, were
handed to the court as having been omitted by the clerk in
making up the record; but it does not appear that they were
used in the trial before the Circuit Court; and if it did so appear, no instructions were asked of the court to the jury, to
1 the foundation of error.
It is to be regretted that the plaintiff in error, in undertaking
to manage his own case, has omitted to take the necessary steps
to protect his interest. There is no error appearing on the
record which can be noticed by this court; the judgment of
the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with costs.

C. C. LATHROP, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHARLES JUDSON
Where exceptions are -not taken in the progress of the trial in the Circuit Courtr
and do not appear on the record, there is no ground for the action of this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the 'United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The suit was commenced by Charles Judson, a citizen of
New York, to recover from Lathrop the amount of a judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in June,
1851, for $1,810, with interest from the 2d of May, 1845. The
plaintiff attached to his petiti6n a copy of the record of the
judgment. The suit was commenced on 6th May, 1854.
On the 18th of May, the defendant filed the following exception and plea:
To the Non. the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Ffth Circuit and Eastern -Districtof Louisiana:
The exception and plea to the jurisdiction of Charles C. Lathrop, of New Orleans, to the petition filed against him in
this hondrable court, by Charles Judson, of the State of New
York.
This respondent alleges, that this honorable court has nojurisdiction of the suit instituted in this matter, the same

DECEM

R TERM, 1856.

67

La lro v. AT&oin.

having been litigated and deceden in the courts of the State
of Louisiana, and an execution having been issued on the
judgment in said suit by the said Charles Judson against this
respondent, under which execution a seizure has been made
of certain property as belonging to this respondent, and which
execution has not yet been returned; all of which will fully
appear by reference to the suit NIo. 16,671, of the docket of
the late Parish Court of New Orleans, transferred to the Third
District Court of New Orleans, and to the notice. of seizure,
herewith filed. Wherefore this respondent prays that his-excepton may be siistained, and that he may be excused from
answering to said petition, and that he may be henbe dismissed
with his costs.In June, 1854,' the court ordered and adjudged that the said
exception' be dismissed at defendant's costs.
-On the same day, Lathrop filed his answer, alleging that on
the 11th of February, 1851, he had made a cession of all his
property to his creditors, under the insolvent laws of Louisi.
ana; that the plaintiff in the suit was placed on the list of creditors for the amount of the judgment; that the debt for which
the judgment was rendered was contracted in Louisiana, and
that the plaintiff bought the debt at the sale by the U. S. Marshal, &c., &c. To sustain this answer, the defendant produced
the record in insolvency,
In November, 1854, the cause came on to be heard, and Was
submitted to the court, when. judgment was entered in favo r
of Judson, against Lathrop; for 1,810.50, with interest from
2d ay, 1845, till.paid, and costs.
Lathirop sued out a writ of 9rror, and brought the case up to
this court.
It was argued by Xr. Taylor for the plaintiff in error, and
.Mr. .Benjanuk for the defendant.
.Mr. Taylor assigned for error the following:
1st. That the exception and plea to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, founded on the fact that there was at the time
an execution then in force, upon which a seizure had been
made under the judgment sued-on, was improperly overruled.
And
2d. That the decision of the lower court, to the effect that
the original cause of indebtedness was not a Louisiana contract, upon the facts set forth in the decision of the court, is
erroneous, and-contrary to law.
And then made the following points:

68

SUPREME COURT.
Lathrop v. .luon.

I. In Louisiana, only one execution can issue at a time on a
judgment; and when a judgment is in the course of execution
in one court, no judgment can -be had on the same claim, unless subject to the condition that no execution issue until the
result of the proceedings on the execution be ascertained.
Hudson v. Dangerfield, 2 L. R., 66; Newell v. Morton, 3 R.,
102; Hennen's Dig., p. 782, No. 9.
H. Contracts are governed by the law of the place wheie
they are entered into, and an obligation contracted or incurred
is payable at the domicil or residence of the obligor, in the
absence of an express stipulation making it payable elsewhere. Lynch v. Postlethwaite, 7 M. R., 213; Hennen's Dig.,
1,068. Com. of Laws, Nos. 4, 5, 10; Shamburgh v. Commugen,
10 M. R., 15; Hepburn v. Toledano, 10 M. R., 643; 2 N. S., 511.
r. Benjamin took the following view of the case:
This record exhibits a writ of efror prosecuted from the
judgment of the Circuit Court, but there is neither assignment of error nor bill of exceptions.
It has been so often decided by this court, that it cannot
take cognisance of a cause presented in this shape, that plaintiff
in error could not have taken the writ with any other design
than that of obtaining delay. Wherefore it is prayed that
damages be allowed under the 17th rule of court. Arthurs
and al. v. Hart, 17 Howard, 6; Weems v. George and al., 13
Howard, 190-'7; Bond v. Brown, 12 Howard, 254; Field v.
United States, 9 Peters, 202; United States v. King, 7 Howafd,
883; Zeller's Lessee v. Eckhart, 4 Howard, 289.
Mr. Justice McLEA N delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the easteri
district of Louisiana.
The action was brought on a judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of Louisiana; certain matters were set up in the
Circuit Court, as a defence, all of which were overruled, and
judgment was entered for eighteen hundred and ten dollars,
with interest and costs. The only errors assigned in this court,
on which a reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court is
prayed, are: 1, that at the time suit was brought on the judgment, in the Circuit Court, an execution had been issued on
the same judgment in the State court, which was in full force,
and on which a seizure had been made; and 2, that the Circuit
Court erred in holding that the indebtment was not founded
on a Louisiana contract.
These exceptions were not taken in the progress of the trial
in the Circuit Court, and do not appear, on the recor& The

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Mfoore v. Greeu e aL.

fact that an execution was issued and returned appears in tlie
record -of the State court, bilt it was not made a part of the
record of the Circuit Court, by bill -of exceptions, and it calnot now be noticed. There is no ground of eror on the face
of the record, for the action-of this court. The judgment of
the Circuit Court is affirmed with ten per cent. damages.

ELIABET

COMPLANAT

mND

GREEN .AN BmiJAmn

W.

MOORE,

APPELLAT,

v.

RAT

EAWxINs.

-In the present case, where a bill was filed to set aside titles for frauds alleged to
have been committed in 1767, the 'bill does not make out a sufficient case; and
the evidence does not even sustain the facts alleged. And the disability to sue,
arising from coverture, is iot satisfactorily proved.
In case of alleged fraud, it is true that the statute of limitations does not begin
to run until the fraud is discovered. But then the bill must be specific in
stating the facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud; and in the
present case, this is not done.
Where property was sold under an administrator's sale, the presumption is in favor
of iJs correctness; and after a long.possession under it, the burden of proof is
upon the party who impeaches the sale.

TMIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Rhode Island, sitting as a court of
equity.
The bill was filed by Elizabeth Moore, a citizen of the State
of New York, the great-grandchild of John Manton, of Rhode
Island;
in 1767. -It alleged a series of frauds, beninwho
.1757,
i died when
one of his sons-in-law prevailed upon
C=faud
to make a deed; then that his three sohs-in-law
conspired together to have him declared non comrpos mei;
then that they fraudulently set aside his will; then that one
ot his sons-in-la-w cheated his own children out of their share
of the estate, and the administrator became a party to .the
fiud; then that the Town Council, conniving with the sonsin-law, adjudged the paper not to be a lawful will, and that all
the parties fr udulently prevented an appeal. These charges
of fraud were made.to include many other transactions which
it is not necessary to specify. 'The claim of the complainant
was, that she was entitled to a share of the lands held by the
defendants; and the prayer was, that a partition -might be decreed.
Hawldns. fied his answer, saying that he had purchased
property from. Samuel W. King,. who derived it from his
father, Josiah King, who inherited it from his father, William
B. Ring; and that he and the Kings had been in. the uninter-

