22

SUPREME COURT.
Thom,,

et al. v. Oatorn.

WnhLiAm THomAs, SOUTHWORTH BANiESi lATHAwIEL RUSSELL,
AD OTHERS,

OWNERS OF THE BARQuE LAuRA, APPELLANTS,

V. JAMES W. OSBOR..
The master of a vessel has poser to create a lien upon it for repairs and supplies
obtained in a foreign port in a case of necessity; and he dbes so without a bottomry bond, when he obtains them, in a case of necessity, on the credit of the
vessel.
It Is not material whether the implied hypothecation is made directly to tho
furnishers of repairs and suppliis, or to one who lends money, on the credit of
the vessel, in a case of necessity, to pay such furnishers.
This p6wer Qf the 'master extends to a case where he is charterer and special
. owner pro ha'vie.
But this authprity only exists'in cases of fnecessity, and' it is the duty of the
lender to see that a case of apparent necessity for a loan exists.
Hence, where thq master had received freight money, an d, with the assistance of
the libellants, invested it in a s~ries of adventures as a' merchant, partly carried
on by means'of the vessel, .he command of which! he had deserted for the purpose of conducting these adventures, and money was advanced by the libellants
to enable the master to repair and supply the vessel, and purchase a cargo to
be transported ana sold in -the course..of such private adventures; and the
freight money earned by the vessel was utfficrent to pay for the repairs and
supplies, and might have been commanded for that use if it had not been
wrongfuilly-diverted from it by the master, with the assistance of the libellants,
it was held that the latter had no ien on the vessel for their advances.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
. It was a libel filed in the District Court by James W. Osborn, of the city of Baltimore, against the barque Laura, her
tackle, apparel, and furniture" Osborn being the assignee of
Loring T Co., merchants in Valparaiso. The barque Laura
belonged to Plymouth, in Massachusetts, and the lien claimed
was for supplies and repairs furnished to the vessel at Valparaiso. The District Court decreed that there was due to the
libellant the sum of $2,910:23, with interest froin the 1st of
April, 1852, which decree was affirmed in the Circuit Court.
The case was argued at the preceding term, and held under
a cu i advisare*v0until the present.
.
The -circumstances of the case are set ?orth with great particularity in the opinion of the court, and fieed not be repeated.
It, was argued by .Mssrs.Brmne and .Brurm for the appellants, and by Messrs. Wallis and . ff. Thomas for. the appellee.
Some of the points made by counsel related to particular
items in the accounts between the parties, which it is not
deemed necessary to notice in this report. Those which re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

28

Thomas e al. v. Oabon.

ferred to the points decidedlby the court were the following,
viz:,
.Pirst. That no lien on the Laura was created for the expenses paid and supplies furnished by Loring & Co., as per
their account, and that Phineas Leach, on whose order or request they were paid and furnished, was not then the master
of.the-barque, and no one but the master can create an im.plied lien on a vessel. Clon1king's Admiralty, 59; Flanders
on Shipping, 181; Flanders's Maritime Law, 174, 175, 186;
Story on Aency, sects. 116 to 124; Curtis on Merchant Seamen, 76--165 to 185; The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheaton, 409,
416; The Phebe, Ware, 275; Sarchet v. Sloop Davis, Crabbe,
199, 200, 201; Jones v. Blum, 2' Richardson, 475, 476, 479,
480; Thorn v. Hicks, 7 Gowen, 700; James v. Bixley, 11 Mass.,
87, 88, 40, 41; Sproat v. Donnell, 20 Maine, 187, 188; Thompson v. Snow, 4 Maine, 268, 269; Mann v. Fletcher, 1 Gray,
(Mass.,) 128, 129, 130; Webb v. Peirce, 1 Curtis C. C. R., 105
* to 113; Reeve v. Davis, 1 Ad. and E., 312; Minturn v. Maynard, 17 Howard,-477; The Aurora, 1 Wheaton, 103; Greenway v. Turner, 4 Md., 296, 308, 304; Young v. Brander, 8
East., 12; Frazer v. Marsh, 13 ib., 238; Bogart v. The John
Jay, 17 Howard, 401; Abb6t on Shipping, 128; 1 Bell's Com.,
506,1 The Jane, 1 Dod., 461; 2. Starr's Institutions, 958, 955,
962, 966; Gilpin, 543.'
SBecond. At tle time when the supplies, in questibn were
famuished, teachhad ceased to be captain, and had become a
-merchant, doing business in Valparaiso, in the counting-room
of Loring & Co. As to the Laura, he was a wrong-doer, improperly detaining-her from her owners, and using her as his
owiA. And the facts which came to the knowledge- of Loring & Co. were sufficient to have put them on the inquiry, as to
-the legality 6f the right which Leach -laimed to exercise over
- the L ura, and such an inquiry would have enAbled them to
ascertain .thit he had no siuch right. They had therefore
constructive notice of all the facts to which such an inquiry
might have led. Curtis on Seamen, 151 to 158; Cdrr v. Hector, 1 Curtis C. C. R,, 393, and cases there cited; Ringgo]d v.
Biyan, 3 Md. Ch. R., 493; Magruder v. Peter, 11 G. and J.,
.243; Baynhrd v. Norris, 5 Gill, 468; Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How.,
479, 495; Harrison ,v. Vose, 9 How., 372.
The poiits made or the part of the appellee, so far as they
inqluded in the decision of the court, were: •
were
. 1. That.
whether Leach, by the terms of the contract under
'which he navigated the barque, was or was not to be regarded
as her temporary owner at the time when the repairs and
supplies in controver.y.Were furnished, and whether the gen-

24

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas ef al. v. Obon.

eral owners were or .were n6t bound personally by his contracts for necessaries, he was at all events master of the
barqne, and imposed a lien -in rem, by ordering and receiving
such'repairs and supplies for her in a foreign port. His relation to the vessel, so far as this legal consequence of his acts
is involved, was not altered by his having 'temporarily intrusted Easton, .his mate, with her navigation, nor was the
repairs
& Co., forbetween
L"ong
vessel herself
responsbility
agreement
by the tosecret
all affected
at the
and supplies, of
ignorant.1
were I'esto,
Co. Brig
which Loring.
owners, 4ofWheaton,
and the Smith,.
Leach
488 ;- &The
The' General
Arthur
149, 150;
3 Sumner,
78; The2Schr._
Sumner,
ib.,
Ohusan,
The Barque
92 to 94;
Story.,Tribune,
Rchr. Cassius,
v.
and owland,
1 Blatchford
The William andEmmeline,
467;
6 N¢ees.
1 Curtis,
V..Pierce,
71;
409;
Wheaton,
Cuba,v.9Barton,
deArthur
hago
St. 110;
142; The
Wellsby,
and Webb
Ellis,
and
Ado.
1
Davis,
v.
Reeve
636;
Cwvper,
Coe,
v.
Rich
815; Sarchet v. Sloop Davis, Crabbe, 201; Story on Agency,
sects. 36, 120; Scofield v. Potter,. Davis, 897; I~rorth v. Brig

Eagl!e, Bei 's Rep., 78; L'Ar'ina v. Brig Exchange, ib., 198; 1
Bell's Com.- 525, 526; The Virgin, 8 ?eters, 552, 553; Hays
v. Pacific Steamboat Go., 17 Howard, 5"98, 599; Peyroux v.
Howaid, 7 Peters, 841; Bevans v. Lewis, 2. Paine's 0. 0.
Rep., 207.
•2. That even if Easton is to be regarded a master, at Zthe
the fact
fuirnislied,
plies
and sup
the sorepairs
ancsent
whenweir
time they
knowledge
hiswere
with
furnished,

that
and under his superintendence, is sufficient to charge the
barque with the usual maritime lien, notwithstanding that
Leach may have ordered or directed them. Stewart v. Hall,
Rep., 56.
14 Missouri
Voorh~ees
32; the
2 -Dow,
of the customary
a waiver
showing Eureka,
of Steamer
onus v.
3. That

maritime lien, by giving credit to Leach, resta on the appelgiven,
was all
such credit
renot only
to forego
anditthey
the intent
lants,
with that
and show
exclusive,
was muist
that
but
an enthat
be argued
It will
in remn.
course
appellants,
the only
partisof not
thethere
effect on
to that
of proof
tire failure

but that the circumstances of the transac.tion, the mode of
making the charges, and the certificaes reCquired from Leach,
ve.onts "barque and ownagaintthe
to the validity of the
ers," all establish affi~ative]y tat the credit of the vessel
her
against
usual2 remedy
looked to,
especially
was
Stewart
Rose, 92;
Bland.
partethe
Ex and
reserved.
particularly

, 87, 88; The Barque Chusan, 2 Story, 468;
v. Hall, 2eow
Peyroux v,Howard, 7 Peters, 344; The Brig. estor, 1 Sum
her, 75; worth s. Brig Eagle, Bee, 78..

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

25

Thoma" ef al. V. Osborn.

4. That even if the relation of Leach to the vessel was not
such as necessarily to raise an implication of lien, from his
mere contract for repairs and supplies, he had, nevertheless,
the right to pledge, the vessel expressly. The proof shows
that he did this, and the lien, thus expressly imposed, being
of a maritime nature, became, proprio viqore, enforceable in
admiralty. Alexander v. Ghiselin, 5 Gill, 182; Sullivan v.
Tuck, 1 Md. Chan. Rep., 62, 63; The Brig Nestor, 1 Sumner,
78; The Schooner Marion, 1 Story, 73; The Hilarity, 1 Blatchford and Howland, 92, 93; Bogart v. The John Jay, 17 Howard, 401; The Brig Draco, 2 Story, 177, 178.
5. . That Captain Leach was introduced to the confidence of
Messrs. Loring & Co. by his position as master of the Laura,
and derived his credit with them altogether from that position;
that they were ignorant of- his contract with his owners, and
of his violation of it, and the dissatisfaction of the owners
therewith; that'Leach was.held out to the world by the appellants as master of the Laura, with the usual right to bind
her by his proper contraZts; that Messrs. Loring & Co., by the
repairs and supplies in controversy, not only improved the
vessel as the property of the owners, but enabled her to earn
freights for their benefit; that such was the result of all their
dealings with Leach in regard to the barque, which were fair,
.liberal, and in good faith; that the misconduct andijnsolvency
of Leach, and is failure to pay over the balance of freights,
furnish no justification to. the owners in repudiating the responsibilities of-the barque, especially ater their adoption of
the Very voyage for which the repairs and supplies were furnished, by the act of their agent, Weston, in receiving a part
of the proceeds of the cargo, and diminishing to that extent
the security of Loring, & Co.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from*a decree of the Circuit C6urt of the
.United Siates for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiralty.
A libel was filed in the District .Court by the appellee, as assignee of Loring & Co., merchants in Valparaiso, asserting a
lien onthe barque.Laura, of Plymouth, in the State of Masqachusetts, for the cost of repairs and supplies furnished tb
that vessel at Valparaiso. The District Court decreed for the
lien, the Circuit Court affirmed that decree, and the claimants
have brought the cause here by appeal.
- It appears that in January, 1849, Phineas Leach, who had
previously'been in command of the barque, contracted with
her own ers to take her on what is termed-" a lay." There
does not appear to have been any written contract of afreight-

26

SUPREME COURT.
.Thomua e4 al. v. Gabomn

ment .between them, nor are-the terms of their agreement
fully described by any witness. But this mode 'of employing
vessels is so common, and its terms and legal effect so well
settled by long. usage, it has been .so often before the courts
and the siubject of adjudication, that no embarrassment is felt
by us concerning the 'terms and conditions on which Leach
took the vessel.
We understand from his testimony, as well as from known
usage, ascertained and adjudicated on in the courts, that the
master. had the entire possession, command, and navigation of
the vessel; that he was to employ her in such freighting voy.ages as he saw fit; that he was to victual and man iae. vessel at
his own expense; that. the owners were to keep the ,vessel in
repair; that from the gross earnings were to be deducted all
port charges, and the residue was to be divided into two equal
parts, one of which was to belong to the owners, the other io
the master; and that this agreement could be terminated by
the restoration of the vessel to the owners by the master, or
by their intervention to displace him, at the end, of any voyage, but not while conducting, any one which he had undertaken.
Having possession: and command of the vessel under such a
contract, Leach. sailed from New Orleans in January, 1849,
and after making'a voyage to Rio de Janeiro, he sailed for and
arrived at Valparaiso -inN ovember, 1849.
It is necessary to state with some particularity the voyages
made after his arrival at Valparaiso. He sailed thence in December, 149, with a cargo' of Chili produce, on a freight
amounting to about $7,000, for San Francisco, where he arrived and delivered the cargo. He went thence to Talcuhana
in ballast; and, having ain intention to buy a, cargo there on
his own accoint, he wrote to Loring & Co., from San Francisco, to obtain from them a credit,' on which to raise money
to 1ay for the balance of the, cost of this cargo, after appropriating towards it the frieght money in his hands. Loring &
Co. ~granted him a credit for $3,000, to be reimbursed by
Leach's draft on' himself at San Francisco, at five per cent
premium. At .Talcuhana, Leach drew o Loring & Co. for
I7,000, and bought doubloons; but, not b.ing able to procure
a cargo there, or at 'Maule, he sailed to Valparaiso, where he.
arrived in July, 1850. He handed oyer to Loring & Co. the
doubloons and the proceeds' of his freight money, which was
in gold dust; and" they supplied the vessel and purchased a
cargo for Leach's account, charging a guaranty commission of
five per cent., on their advances, and also a commission of two
-and a half per cent. on their'purchases. They rendered Leach

DECEM3BER TERM, 1856.

27

Themased al. V. Oabor,,

an account, in which he is charged with the supplies of the
barque and the cost of the cargo, and their commissions, and
credited with the moneys received from:him.
Leach carried this cargo to San Francisco; and, having sold
it, made an arrangement with the mercantile house of Flint,
Peabody,-& Co., established at San Francisco, that he would
go to Yalparaiso; and ship cargoes thence to them o their
an~d his joint account, drawing on them for the co t. This
arrangement was not limited to cargoes by the Laura, but was
to extend to such other vessels as Leach naight take up for the
purpose.
From San Francisco, Leach sailed in the Laura to Talcuhana,
where lie saw one of the firm of Loring & Co., who gave him
a credit for $10,900 to buy a cargo there. He purchased part
of a cargo; but, not being able to complete it, went to Valparaiso, where he arrived n May, 1851. He then informed
Loring & Co. of his arrangement with Flint, Peabody, & Co.,
and they agreed to advance him funds, to enable him to carry
the arrangement into effect--to be rembursed by remittances
from San acisco, with. ive per cent. commission, -and one
per cent a month for interest. Re accordingly left the vessel,
putting Easton, his mate, in command; ana Loring & Co.
purc tsed the residue of the crgo for the Laura, charging its
cost to the joint account of Leach, and Flint, Peabody, & Co.,
and the Laura sailed in May, 1851, for San Francisco. She
returned in ballast to Valparaiso in March, 1852; and at that
time the principal bills for repairs and supplies, claimed in
this case, were incurred. In March, 1852, the Laura again
sailed, under Easton's comnmand, for San Francisco, via Peyta
where she touched to complete her cargo, and Easton there
drew a bill on Ioring & Co. to reimburse advances made to
hini in that port--partly to pay for cargo purchased there,
and partly to pay for supplies and port charges.
The Laura returned to San Francisco in September, 1852,
where she was taken possession of by Captain Weston, who
had been sent there by the owners to bring her home. The
owners gave no conse.nt to the above-described proceedings of
Leach in respect to. the Use and employment of the barque.
From the time when Leach left the command of the Laura; in
)lay, 1851, he remained in Valparaiso, and by means of fdnds
furnished by Loring &.Co., and with their awistance, he purchased and. made six shipments of cargoes by vessels other
than the Laura, u'nder his arrangement with Flint, Peabody,
& Co., and -Loring & Co.. He had a desk in the countinghouse of Loring. & Co., and there transacted his business.
"Setting aside all the special facts of this -case, and viewing it

28

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas et al. v. Os5on.

only as an ordinary transaction, by which the master of an
American vessel procured repairs and supplies, and advances
of money to pay for repairs afid supplies, in a foreign port,
the first question which arises is, whether he had power to
hypothecate the vessel as a security for their payment, otherwise than by a bottomry bond, which must make the payment
dependent on the arrival of the vessel, and creates no personal
liability of the owners.
We understand it to be definitely settled by the cases of
Stainbank v. Fleming, 6 Eng. L. and Eq., 412, decided by the
Court of Common Pleas in 1851, and Stainbank v. Shephard,
20 Eng. L. and Eq., 547, on writ of error in the -Exchequer
Chamber, so late as 1853, that by the law of England the master
of a ship has not power to create a lien on the vessel as security
for the payment for repairs and supplies obtained in a foreign
port, save by-a bottomry bond; -thathe can only pledge his own
credit and that of his owners, but cannot, by any act of his,
give the creditor security on the vessel; while, at the same
time, the personal liability of the owners continues.: Neither
of those learned court ,considered-perhaps there was no occasion for them to consider-(Pope v. Nickerson, 3 Story's R.,
465,) what should be the effect, in an English tribunal, of the
law of the place where the repairs and supplies were obtained,
if that .law tacitly created a lien on the vessel. See Story's
Con. of Laws,.§ 322 b, 401-'3. These. decisions rest merely
upon the want- of authority in the master, according to the
law of England, to create, by his own act, an absolute hypothecation of the vessel as security for a loan. But the martime law of the United States is settled otherwise-in harmony
with the ancient aiid general maritime law of the commercial
world. The master of a vessel of the United States, being in'a
foreign port, has power, in a case of necessity, to hypothecate
the vessel, and also to bind himself and the owners, personally,
for repairs and supplies; and he does so without any express
hypothecation, when, in a case of necessity, he obtains them
on the -redit of the vessel without a -bottomry bond. The ship
General Smith, 4 'Wheat., 488; Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Peters,
-324, 341; The Yirgin, 8 Peters, 538; The Nestor, 1 Story, 73;
The Chusan, 2 Story, 455; The Phoebe, Ware's R., 263; Davis
v. Child, Daveis's R., 12, 71; The William and Emeline, 1
Blatch. and How., 66; Davis v. A New Brig, Gilpin's R., 487;
Sarchet v. The Davis, Crabbe's R., 185.
It is not material whether the hypothecation is made directly
to the furnishers of repairs and supplies, or to one who lends
money an the credit of the vessel, in a case of necegsity, to pay
such fwnishers. "Through.all time," says Valin, "by the
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

29

"Thomaw et al. v. Oborn.

use and custom of the seas, it has been allowable for the master to borrow money, on bottomry or otherwise, upon the hull
and keel of the vessel, for repairs, provisions, and other neces.saries, to enable him to continue the voyage;" Com. on Art.
19, Ord. of 1 81; and this assertion rests upon sufficient authority. The Roman law, de exercitoria actiong, D. 14, 1,
authorized a simple loan, .and does not confine the master to
borrow on bottomry. The Consulat del Mare, ch. 104, 105,
236, the laws of Wisby, art. 13, the laws of Oleron, art. 1, Le
Guidon, ch. v, art. 38, the French ordinance of 1681, art. 19,
as well as the presentFrench code'de commerce, art. 234, concur in allowing the maste to contract a simple loan, in a case
of necessity, binding on the vessel. A difference of opinion
exists between Valin and Emerigon, concerning the power of
the master also to bind the owner to accept bills of exchange
for the sum borrowed; but they concur in opinion that the
master ,has 'power to contract a loan to pay for repairs and
supplies, and to give what we term a lien on the ship as
security, in a case of necessity. See Valin's Com., art. 19;
Emerigon's Con. a la Grope, ch. 4, sec. 11; vol. 2, pp. 484, &c.
In. another place, ch. 12, see. 4, Emerigon observes, "It matters little whether one has lent money or furnished materials."
The older as well' as the m6re recent commentators are of
the game opinion. Kuricke, 765; Loccenius, lib. 8, ch. 7, n. 6;
Stypmannus, 417, n. 107; Boulay Paty Cours de Droit, Com.
tit._l, see. 2, .vol. 1, p. 39, and tit. 4, sec. 14, vol. 1,.pp. 151-3;
Pardessus Droit Com., vol. 3, n. 631, 644, 660; Pardessus Col.,
vol. 2, p. 225, note. The subject has been elaborately examined by Judge Ware, in Davis v. Child, Daveis's R., 75, and
we are satisfied he arrived at the correct result.
lNor do we think the fact that the master was charterer and
owner pro Iac vice necessarily deprived him of this power. It
is true it does not exist in a place -where tbe owner is present.
(The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat., 409.) But this doctrine cannot be safely extended to the case of an owner pro hac vice in
command of the vessel. Practically this special ownership
leaves the enterprise subject to the same necessities as if the
master were master merely, and not charterer, and the maritime law gives him the same power to borrow to meet that
necessity, as if he were not charterer. The Consulat de la
Mer, ch. 289, (2 Par. Col., 837,) has provided for the very case,
for it makes the interest of the general 'owner responsible for
the contracts of the master who has received the vessel "en
coimmande;"' and one species of this contract was what we
should term "a lay "-that .is, a participation in profits. Vide

30

SIUPREME COURT.
Thom= e 4. v. ObOr..

2 Par. Col., 186, note 8; 52, note 1; 49, note 4; and the chapters there referred to. "
It is true the master'cannot bind the general owners pprsonally for supplies which he, as charterer, was to furnish. (Webb
v. ierce,l Curtis, 110.) Neither could he bind them beyond
the value of their shares in the vessel, under the ancient maritime law. (Consulat, ch. 84, 239, and Pardessus's note, vol. 2,
p. 225.)' Emerigon is of opinion that the effect 6f the French
ordinance is the same. (Con.' a la Grope, ch. 4,. sec. 11.) In
our law, if the master is the agent of the owners, his contracts
are obligatory on them personally. Whei he'acts on his own
account, he does not create any obligation on them. But it
does not follow that he may.not bind the vessel. In Hickoi
v. Buckingham, I How., it was held that contihacts of affreightment entered into by the master, within the scope of
his apparent authority as master, bind the vessel to the merchandise for the performance of such contracts, wholly irrespective of the ownership of the vessel; and whether the
master be the agent of the general or special owner-and this
upon the principle that the general owner must be presumed
to consent, when he lets the vessel, that the master may malke
guch contracts, which operate as a thcit hypothecation of the
vessel. And so in this case, we think,. the general owners,
must be taken to have consented that, if a case of necessity
should arise in the course of any voyages which the master
was carrying .on for the joint benefit of fhieinselves and himself, he might obtain, on the credit of the vessel, such supplies
and repairs as should be needful to enable him.to continue the
joint adventure. This presumption of consent by the general
owner is entertained by the law from the actual circumstances
of-.the case, and from tonsiderations of the convenience and
necessities of the commercial world.
But the limitation of the authority of the master to cases of
necessity, not only of repairs and supplies, but of credit to
obtain them; and the requirement that the lender or furnisher
should see to it,'that apparently such, a case of necessity exists,
are as ancient and well established as the authority itself.
In some- of the old sea laws, they are declared in express
terms, as they were in the Roman law': Aliquam diligentiam
in ea re creditorem debere prsestare, D. 14, 1, 7; navis in es
causa ftiisset ut refici deberet, D. 14, 1, 7. And in the Consulat del Mare, ch. 107, "But the nierchant should- assure
himself that-what he lends is destined for the use of fle.ship,
.and that it is necessary for that object."
A reference to the other codes cited above will show that a
case of necessity 'was unifo~mly required; and the commenta-.

DECEMBER. TERM, 1856.
ThYomraJE

31

al. v. Os&om.

tors all agree,that if one lend money to a master, knowing he
has not need to borrow, he does not act in good faith, and the
loan does not Rblige the owner. -Valin, art 19; Emerigon,
Con. i Ja Grope, ch. 4, see. 8; and he older commentators
cited by him. Boulay Paty Cours de Droit Com., tit. I, sec.
2, tit.153.
IV, see. 14; and see the authorities cited by him in note
1,
, constitute a case of apparent necessity, not only must
the repairs and supplies be needful, but it must be apparently
necessary for the master to have a credit, to procure them.
If the master has funds of his "own,which he ought to apply
to purchase the -supplies which he is bound by the -contract of
hiring to furnish himsel; and if he has funds of t1he owners,
which he ought to apply to pay for the repairs, then no case
of actual necessity to lave a credit exists. And if the lender
knows .these facts, or has the means, by the use of due diligence, to ascertain them, then no case of apparent necessity
exists to have a credit; and the act of the master in procuring
a credit does not bind the interest of the general owners in the°
vessel.
We now come to the application of these, principles 'to the
case at bar.
The freight-money earned by the Laura was applicable, and
ought to have been .applied, by the master, to the necessities
of the vessel;. the one-half (after deducting port charges,)
which belonged to himself, should have been applied topay
the wages of the crew,.and obtain supplies for the 'vessel; the
other hal which belonged to the owners, to paying for necessa~ repairs.

he amount of this freight-noney actually earned and received was about $12,000. Besideg this, the )Laura had made
two voyages to San Francisco, with cargoes belonging to Leach
and to him, and Flint, Reabody, & Co., before the bills now in
question were incurred. We hesitate to declare that a master,
who takes a vessel on "a Iay," can use it to carry bargoes of
his own. The practical difference to the owners is, that there
can be no agreed rates of freight, and no such security on the
cargo for its'payment, as the marine law ordinarily provides,
ant as the owners may be reasonably considered to contemplate when they let the vessel. (Gracie v.'Palmer, 8 Wheat.,
605.) But this point has not been adjudicated on by the courts,
nor does this case furnish any evidence of what the usage is in
this particular. Waiving a decision of this question, it is, at
all events; clear the vessel earns for the owners a reasonably.
freight by carrying cargo of the master; and, according to th
evidence in this case, that reasonable freight must have been

32

SUPREME COURT.
Thoma

et al.'V. Osborn.

set down for each of the two voyages on which the cargo of
the master was carried, at the sum of $7,000, that being the
sum earned on the preceding voyage between the same ports,
and there being no evidence before us of a change in the price
of freights in the intermediate periods; so that when these expenses, now in question, were incurred, the master had received in money, as freight, $12,000, and must be -taken to
have received, in the enhanced value of his own merchandise,
through its carriage to San Francisco, $14,000 more. The
amount previously"expended by him for repairs and supplies,
at Valparaiso, does not appear to have exceeded $8,000. The
amount expended at San F rancisco does not appear, but there
is no reason to supposeit was considerable.
In July, 1850, Loring & Co. received from Leach his funds,
supplied him with credit, and purchased a cargo for him. In
May, 1851, they made themselves parties to an arrangement,
under which Leach was to quit the command of the vessel, and
become a merchant, resident at Valparaiso. Whether they did
or did not know Leach had the vessel on a lay, this was obviously wrong as respected the owners; for though, under a lay,
the master is owner pro hac vice, yet there is a personal confidence reposed in him as master, which he cannot delegate to
another, except in case of necessity. Before the credit now in
question was given by Loring & Co., they not only had notice
that Leach had wrongfully deserted the command of the vessel, and had diverted the freight which the vessel had earned
and ought to have earned into his business as a merchant, but
they had actually assisted him to do so, by receiving freightmoney, and mingling it with other funds in their hands, out
of which and their own funds they made advances to enable
him to pay for cargoes; and they acted as his agents in their
purchase.; and they had, moreover, profited largely by so
doing, charging high rates of interest, as well as commissions.
It should be added, that the owners have received nothing
for their part of the earnings of their vessel, during all these
voyages; for though, since his return to this country, Leach
has rendered his accounts to the owners, they refused to settle
them, as rendered, and Leach testifies he has not the means to
pay any balance due to them.
In such a state of facts, we are of opinion Loring & Co. had
no right to lend Leach money, or furnish him With supplies
on thie credit of the ship, and cannot be taken to have done so.
Our opinion is, that inasmuch as the freight-money earned
by the vessel was sufficient to pay for all the needful repairs
and supplies, and might have been commanded for that use if
they had not been wrongfully diverted, no case of actual

DEEMB3ER TERM, 1856.
Thomas a al. v. Oebomn.

necessity to encumber the vessel existed; and as Loring & Co.
not only knew this, but aided Leach to divert the freightmoney to other objects, thby obtained no lien on the vessel for
their advances.
The cause must be remanded, with directions to dismiss the
libel witli costs.
Mr. Chief Justice TA TEY,. M.r. Justice McLkAN, and Mr.
Justice WAYNE, dissented, and Mr. Justice McLEAN and
Mr. Justice WAYNE concurred with the Chief Justice in the
following. dissenting opinion.
Mr. Chief Justice TANTEY dissenting.I dissent from the judgment of the, court .in this case, and
adhere to the opinion I gave at the circuit.
The principal question is, whether certain repairs and supplies furnished to the barque Laura, of Plymouth, in the State
of Massachusetts, while she was in the port of Valparaiso, in
Chili, in February and March, 1852, are a lien upon th6
vessel.
The appellants are citizens of Massachusetts, and, at the
time of making and furnishing these repairs and.supplies, and
until and after this libel was filed, were the owners of the
barque. She was built for them at Newburyport, under the
,superintendence of a certain Phineas Leach, who was by profession a mariner. After the vessel was completed, she was
placed under his command, as master; and, in the year 1847,
he and the appellants agreed that he should sail the vessel on
what, in the New England ship-owning States, is familiarly
called "a lay"-that is to say, he *as to victual and man her;
pay one-half the port charges, and be entitled to one-half of
the freights or earnings. This is the contract, as stated by
Leach in his testimony. I o written contract is produced.
Indeed, contracts of this description, it would seem, are so
well known and understood in the States above mentionied;
that they are often made orally, and not in writing. And
when the owners agree with a mariner that he shall sail the

vessel-on "a layl," both parties understand that the mariner is
to take the command of her as master, to victual and man
her, anl pay half the port charges; the owner to keep the
vessel in repair, and the freight and earnings to be equally
divided between them. Upon a contract of this kind, the
vessel, during its continuance, is ,under the exclusive control
of the master, as respects her voyages and employment. He
alone has the right to determine what voyages he will undertake-what cargo he will carry.-"upon what terms--and to
vOL. XTX.
3

84

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas et al. v. Os bom.

what ports he will sail in search of freight. His share of the,
earnings of the vessel are his wages, and he receives no other
compensation for his services as master.
Before I proceed to state the facts out of which this controversy has arisen, it is proper to say that Leach states in his
testimony that, in addition to the contract above mentioned,
it"was agreed, between the appellants and himself, that he
should have the right to become a part owner df the vessel, to
to the amount of oxe-eighth, whenever he paid for it. But
he never paid anything on this account, and never, therefore,
had any interest a§ part owner'; - and, upon his return to
Plymouth, in 1852, as hereinafter mentioned, when his connection with the Laura ceased, this contract was cancelled.
It was a written contract; but whether it was a part of his contract to sail the vessel upon "a lay," is not stated in the testimony.
As Leach never became part owner, his authority over the
vessel was derived altogether from his contract to sail her
upon the terms above mentioned. That contract, as stated
by him, was indefinite as to its duration. No particular time
was fixed for its termination, nor the happening of any particular event. And it was durin the continuance of thiscontract that the voyages were maA'e, and the acts done which
have given rise to this controversy.
Tle material facts in the case are derived mainly from the
testimony of Leach, who was produced as a witness by the
owners, who are the appellants; and it requires a close and
careful scrutiny to understand the bearing of different portions of his testimony upon the. different points raised in the
argument. The examination itself, under the commission to
take testimony, which was executed at Boston, is singularly
involved and confused; and the answers, I regret to say, often
showing a disposition to prevaricate, and a desire to make the
best case the witness could for the bwners, and against the
libellants.
His testimony begins by describing several voyages which
he made in the year 1849, which are not material to the matter in issue, until he comes to the one from Rio to Valparaiso.
This was his first voyage to the Pacific, and he arrived at
Valparaiso in November, 1849, with a cargo consigned to
Loring & Co., the libellants. This company was composed of
citizens of Massachusetts, domiciled at Valparaiso for the purposes of bommerce. In December, 1849, he sailed from Valparaiso to San Francisco, .with a cargo on freight; the freight
amounting to about seven thousand dollars. Being unable to
procare a cargo on freight at San Francisco, he sailed for Tal-

DECEMIBER TERM, 1856.

85

T'orm d al v. Osboam

cahuana in ballast, and, no freight offering at that place, he
sailed for Maule in ballast, but was prevented from entering
the port bybad weather and a bad bar, and proceeded to Valparaiso. He arrived there early in July, 1850. While there,
he obtained advances from Loring & Co., which .enabled him
to purchase a cargo for the Laura on his own account, with
which he sailed for San Francisco, where he arrived in November, 1850.
While lie was in San Francisco, he made'an arrangement
with Flint, Peabqdy, & Co., of that place, by which, upon. his
return to-Chili, he was to purchase cargoes on joint account,.
and ship or consign them to that house at San Francisco. He
was to purchase cargoes by means of bills drawn on them,
and they were to honor his draf.
There was no limit as to
the time; but this agreement was conditional, and was to
depend upon the ability of Leach to make ,arrangements in
Chili, by which he could raise money on those drafts to purchase the cargoes; and if he succeeded in making those
arrangements,. he was to remain in Chili to make the purchases. The arrangement was not confined to cargoes by the
Laura, but he was to buy and ship according t6 his judgment..
When' he left San Francisco, he again proceeded to Talcahuana in ballast, where he arrived in February, 1851. He met
there Mr. Bowe4n, one of the .firm of Loring &-C6., and told
him that he.wanted another cargo, but had not money to buy
it, and Bowen thereupon gave him a letter of credit upon his
house at Valparaiso, by which he was authorized to draw on
them for ten thousand dollars, payable eight days after sight.
Being unable to complete his cargo at Talcahuana, he proceeded to.Valparaiso, where he a-rived in the mohth of April
or May following, an'd obtained the .balance of -his cargo by
the aid of further advances from Loring & Co. He then
rnentioniid to them his arrangement with Flint, Peabody, &
Co.;, and asked if Loring & Co. would give him facilities in
the way of funds to carry ouit this arrangement. They agreed
to advance the funds, upon an interest account with hin,
charging five per cent. for advances, and- one per cent. a
month for interest, arid they were to be aid by remittances
from San Francisco without drawing bills.. Leach acceded to
this arrangement, and directed them to charge the cargo then
on board the Laura at Valparaiso to the joint account of Flint,
Peabody, & Co., and himself, Leach. He then, as he says,
"put the matef Reuben S. Easton, in as master," and sent him
to San Francisco, Leach remaining at Valparaiso. This was
in May, 1851, and he remained there until March, 1852, carrying on and superintending those transa.ctions.

86

SUPREME COURT.
Thomam

al. v. Oskn.

During this period, lie engaged extensively in mercantile
business, shipping cargoes by other vessels, as well as the one
by-the Laura, and obtaining the means of purchasing them
by the arrangements he had made with Loring & Co., as hereinbefore stated; and he -had a desk in their counting-house, at
which he transacted his business.
The Laura did not return again to Valparaiso until February,' 1852. It was then found'that she needed repairs and sup-.
plies to a large amount to fit her for another voyage; and
Leach also wanted funds to purchase another cargo for her.
He had at that time, it seems, determined to return to Plymouth; but before he did so, he wished to despatch the Laura,
under the command of Easton, on a voyage to Peyta and
Panama, with a cargo purchased on his own account. He
had no funds for either purpose. He states that he had but
$500, and this, it appears, he needed for his personal expenses;
and the repairs were made and the supplies furnished for the
vessel by Loring & Co., at his request, to the amount of
$2,707.69. Leach states that they were. necessary, and made
and furnished with economy; that he was himself .on board,
superintending and directing them; that Easton was also on
board assisting him, but had nothing to do with ordering or
directing them. He merely executed Leach's orders. The
cargo was likewise purchased and paid for by Loring & Co.
forLeach, and at his request.
The repairs were made and the supplies furnished in the
latter part of February and early part of March, 1852, and
the cargo put on board immediately afterwards. The invoice
is dated Valparaiso, March 18th, and is headed' "Invoice of
sundries purchased and shipped by Loring & Co., on board
the barque Laura, for Peyta and Panama, on account and risk
of Capt. Phineas Leach, consigned to his order, for sales and
returnsto Loring & Co."-the aggregate amount being $5,779.81.
The vessel sailed, as soon as the cargo was on board, under
thp command of Easton. And on the 20th of March, two
accounts were stated by Loring & Co.; one for the repairs and
supplies to the Laura, and the other their private.or personal
account against Leach; both of which were signed by Leach
on that day, with a written admission that they.were correct.
The first mentioned of these accounts is headed, "Barque
Laura and owners to Loring & Co., Dr.," and states the particular items of repairs and supplies, amounting, as before mentioned, ii the aggregate, to $2,707.69. This account is the
matter now in dispute. The other is headed, "Dr., Capt. P.
Leach in account with Loring & Co. to 20th of March, 1852,"
showing a balance due from Leach of $8,527.69. Among other

DECEMBER TRRM, i856.

8T

Thoma a at. v. Gabomn

items, le is charg~d, in t
account, with the amount of the
account for repairs'and supplies,..and this item is charged
thus--" our ac. with barque Laura'"--andhe is also charged with
the amount of the invoice above mentioned thus--" our invoice
sures for Laura due A2ori, 12, 18t2 "-showing thai the
charge for the repairs and supplies was always kept separate and
distinct from Leach's personal account
On the day these two separate accounts were adjust~d and
signed by the parties', or in a day or two afterwards, Leach left
Valparaiso for-Panama, and from thence proceeded home. -He
states that he arrived at Boston on the. 20th of April following,
and it appears, by the documents in evidence, that, on-the 9th
of July next after his return, the appellants agreed with Francis
H. Weston thAt he should proceed to Panama, or wherever the
vessel was lying, and assume the -ommand of her as master;
and, aier fiffling any engagement she might be under, should
proceed with her for a load of guano on freigh or anyother
freight that could be obtained, to an ,Atantic'port. Weston
proceeded accordingly, and arrived at Valparaiso in September:
The Laura arrived there about a fortnight afterwards, when he
assumed the command, and Easton lefther.
. In the execution of his orders from the owners, Weston proceeded on the voyage directed by them, and then brought the
vessel and cargo to Baltimore, where he arrived in June, 1853;
and immediately after his arrival she was arrested upon the
libel now under consideration.
This narrative of the facts. in the case is necessay in order
to understand how the questions discussed at the bar have
arisen. There are other circumstances in evidence, relating to
different points, which it will be material to advert to more
particularly hereafter.
a
As I have already said, the principal -matter in. dispute'is,
whether the repairs and supplies furnished to the barque in the
port of V*lparaiso, as. hereinbefore mentioned, in -February
and March, 1852, were a lien upon the vessel at the time this
libel was filed.
In deciding this question, the first point to be considered is,
in what rel'aton did Leach stand to the vessel; while he-was
sailing her under this contract? Was he the -owner for the
time? And in determining the legal effect and operation of
contracts made by hin, are they to be regarded as the contracts
of the owner, or the contracts of the master?
This is a question of the highest importance to the commercial interests of this country. It iswell known that.amost the
whole of our immense coasting trade is carried -on by vessels
owned in the lNortheastern States of- the Union; and the far

88

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas tdaL v. Oasorn

greater part of them are sailing under contracts like this. And
upon our coast, stormy and dangerous as it is at certain seasons
of the year, very serious damage is often sustained by these
vessels, and heavy amounts frequently required and obtained
in the ports of other States for repairs and supplies to enable
them to procee& on their voyages.
Now, if Leach is to be regarded as owner for the time when,
he was sailing the Laura under the agreement, then by the
maritime law the repairs and supplies furnished at his request
are presumed to have been furnished upon his personal credit,
unless the contrary appears; and in that view of the subject,
Loring & Co. have not, and never had, any lien upon the vessel;
and the libel against her cannot be maintained. But if,
on the
contrary, Leach is to be regarded as master, and as making
the contract by virtue of his authority over the barque in that
character, then these repairs and supplies in a foreign port, if
necessary to enable the vessel to proceed, are presumed to have
been made on the credit of the vessel, unless the contrary appears, as well. as on the cdedit of the owners and Leach; and
in this aspect of the case, Loring & Co. had a lien upon her,
which they may enforce in this proceeding unless it has been
waived or discharged.
These- are the established principles of maritime law in this
eountry, as heretofore recognised and administered in the
courts of the United States. And I do not deem it necessary
to refer to English cases, or to the decrees or doctrines in the
different nations on the continent of Europe, which have been
cited in the argument, because I consider the rule, as I have
stated it, to be conclusively settled in this country by an unbroken series of decisions in this court and at the circuits.
The case of The General Smith, (4 Wheat., 443;) The St. Jago
de Cuba, (9 Wheat., 416;) and the case of Ramsey v. Allegre,
(12 Wheat., 611,) explained and commented on in the case of
Andrews v. Wall and others,. (3 How., 58,) may be regarded as
the leading cases on this subject.
The case before us is one of the more interest, because it is
the first in which the construction and legal effect of these
contracts, for sailing on a "lay" has come up for decision in
this court.. They are, as I have said, peculiar to a particular
portion of the Union, and are scarcely ever'to be found in the
maritime contracts of any other part of the commercial world..
They are also comparatively modern in their use. And if it
is held, that a person furiiishing necessary repairs and supplies
in a foreign port, to a vessel sailing under a contract of this
kind, has not a remedy against the owner, and also a lien on
tee vessel for such provisions and supplies3 as well as for repairs

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Tlwmtu 4 aL v. Osbogn.

to the vessel-althou h they are both furnished at the request
of a master who is without funds, and has no other means of
6btaining them-then this class of cases will form au.exception
to the general maritime code of the United States, to which
vessels belonging to the ports of.other. States, and sailing under
the usual contract with the master, for certain wages, are subjected; and the parties making the repairs or furmishing the
supplies will be deprived of the securities to which they have
heretofore supposed themselves entitled, and upon which they
have mainly relied; for the personal responsibility of the master,
after he is suffered .toleave the port, is most commonly of very
little value. And it would exempt the ship-owners, in one
portion of the United States, from the liabilities and burdens
imposed upon those of other States, merely -upon the ground
that in the one the owner compensates his captain by allowing
him a share -of the nett amount of the freight earned by the
vessel, and in -the other by fixed and certain- wages. For this,
in truth, is the only difference between vessels sailing under a
"lay" ad those sailing under the usual and customary contract between the owner and master.
In making the inquiry whether Leach was owner while sailing under tMis contract, we shall find few if any cases in the
English decisions to assist us. 'For contracts of this kind, as I
have already said, are hardly if ever used there. And I can
find no case where the question arose as to who was owner for
voyage in which the contract is not clearly distinguishable from
thi one before us.. And in all of the cases in which it has been
held that the general owners were not responsible, it will be
found that, by the terms of the contract, the entire and exclusive possession and control of the vessel was transferred for a
certain time, or a particular voyage or voyagles, and where the
general owner, during the time stipulated, Rad no right to exercise any act of ownership -over her. .In other words, they
pre cases in which the court held, that the vessel was let or
demised to the party for the time, so as to. vest .the right of
property in the charerer, leaving in the general owners a reversionary interest, subject to the particular interest so let or
demised. And whether this is the case or not, and whether
there is a special and exclusive property in the charterer, does
not depend upon any particular form of words or any particular
facts. The general rule in relation to the construction of such
contracts is aid down in Abb..on Ship., 01, (7th Am. Ed'n,) in
the following words, as the result of the'various decisions to
which he refers: "From these cases (he says) it appears that
the question whether or not the possession of a vessel passes
out of th6 owner or charterer depends upon no single factor

40

SUPREME COURT.
Thomm d al. v. Oabom.

expression, but upon the whole of the language of the contractas applicable to its attendant circumstances."
But although we find no case in the English reports that can
be regarded, as in point, contracts like the one before us, and
indeed in the same words, have, on several occasibns, been
brought before the Circuit Court of the United States in the
first circuit, where they have been carefully and deliberately
considered by the learned judge who recently presided in that
circuit. And it has been uniformly held in that court, by Mr.
Justice Story, that the master sailing a vessel under such a contract as this is not the exclusive owner for the voyage; and, if
regarded as owner at all, is a qualified and limited one; and
his character and autho'rity, and duty as master, is not merged
in it; and that his contracts for repairs and supplies in a foreign
port are made in that character, and are a lien upon the vessel.
One of these contracts came before him in the case of the
Nestor, reported in I Sum., 73, and was decided in 1831. The
claim was for a cable furnished to the vessel at Alexandria, in
the District of Columbia, at the request of the master. The
vessel belonged to Portland, in the State of Maine. And the
court held that the vessel was liable, unless it was shown thatthe
credit was exclusively given to the master. It is true that the
article furnished in that case was for the use of the brig, which
the owner was bound to keep in repair. But the principle decided applies directly to the case before us--that is, that the
master, under one of these contracts, is not owner for the voyage, so far as to exclude his character and authority as captain.
And that his contracts -for repairs and supplies are presumed
to be made in the latter character, and-to create the usual maritime lien upon the vessel, and the usual liability of the owner,
unless the presumption is repelled by proof that the credit was
given to him. The whole subject is fully discussed in this case,
and such will be found upon a careful examination the result
of the opimion.
The case of the Cassius, 2 Story's Rep., 81, was a contract of
the same description, between the master and owners; and in
that case the rights of the master and the responsibility of the
owners for his actq in a foreign port were fully considered; and
the decision turned upon the question whether, under one of
these contracts, the master was the owner for the time. And the
learned judge, speaking of the case of Taggart v. Loring, 16
Mass. R., 836, says: ""That ease is distinguishable in its actual
circumstances from the present. The argument in that case
does not appear from the statements of the report to have been
identical with the present. And if it were, I must say that I
should have some difficulty in acceding to the authority of that

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

41

Thomas ef al. v. Oeborm

case, if itmeant to establish that the master had an exciusive
special ownership in the ship for the voyage. I should rather
incline to the opinion, that if he had any ownership at all for
the voyage, it was in common with the general owners." The
contract in that case, upon which the libel was filed, was executed by him as master, and the court held that it bound the
vessel.
Indeed, I do not see how, upon any fair interpretation of the
terms of these contracts, a different construction could be given
to them. There are no words in them which import that it is
the intention of the owners to transfer the exclusive right of
property in the vessel to the master for the time, nor anything
m the character of the contract from which it can be impliedon the contrary, the right of possession remains necessarily
in the owners. For they are to keep the ship in repair, and
the master is only to man and victual her. The owners have
therefore the right, while the contract continues, to take exclusive possession of her, from time to time, for the purpose of
putting her in proper repair, and to have her properly equipped,
so that she may alivays be seaworthy, and their property not
be imprudently exposed to danger. And whatever Leach did,
or was authorized to do, in this respect, was necessarily done
as master, holding the possession for the time the repairs were
making, not as owner of the vessel, but as agent for the owners,
by virtue of his authority as master. And the owners, in a
case like this, may, as in the case of an ordinary captain upon
certain
wages, displace
him from
the command
whenever
they
think proper-being
bound,
however,
in like manner,
to fulfi
te engagements into which he had lawfully entered.
Moreover, he had no connection with the vessel, except under
his contract to sail her in the character of captain or master.
He had no authority over her, nor any right of possession, nor
any
power to
.direct herrights
voyages
movements,connected
except in with
this
character.
"All of his
wereorinseparably
his official relation to the vessel, and depended upon it. The
inducement
to the
contract was the confidence which the owners
reposed in his
seamanship,

integrity, and capacity for business.
It was a personal trust, which he could not deleater
ssign

to another. It was to be executed by himself; and the moment
he ceased to be master, all right of possession, and all right to

control her voyages and movements, ceased also. And if his
rght o the possession of the barque, and to man and victual
her, and contract for freights, and to receive half her ea
were all inseparabl conected with his official relation tote
vessel as maheer, and dependent upon it I cannot understand

42

SUPREME COURT.
T

smaelaL v. Oabom.

how his contract for repairs and supplies can be said to be made
in any other character.
His relation to the vessel, and his rights in and over her,
differ in no material respect, in a contract of this kind, from that
of a master sailing in the ordinary mode, upon fixed and certain
wages, from one porb to another, under the direction of the
that
owner, to carry or seek for freight. The only difference is,
a larger discretion as to the voyages to be undertaken is given
to the master, and he receives half the earnings, instead- of certain and fixed wages. And I cannot perceive how these two
circumstances can give him any ownership of the vessel, or
why the master's contracts for repairs and supplies in a foreign
port shall be a lien upon the vessel in one case, and not in the.
other. The fact that he is to victual and man the vessel cannot
of itself give a right of property in her., It is, undoubtedly, a
circumstance to be considered in expounding these contracts,
but nothing more. For the exclusive right for the voyage may
as well and legally be transferred where the owners man and
victual her, as where it is done by the charterer, provided the
contract taken altogether shows that such was the intention of
the palties. It does not, as I have already shown, depend upon
any particular fact, but upon the entire agreement. And I
can see nothing in,,agreements of this kind, as was said by Mr.
Justice Story in the case of the Cassius, which indicates an intention to make the master the exclusive owner during the
voyages he might make, or that would justify the court in
giving it such a construction.
I am aware, that in some or all of the States where these
contracts are usually made, there are cases in the State courts
in which it has been held, that in these contracts the master is
the owner, and that his contracts made in the port of another,
State are made in the character of owner and not of master, and
that an action cannot be -maintained upon them against the
general owners.
I shall not stop to examine these cases, because the question
here is not whether an action can be maaintained against the
owners for these repairs and supplies, but whether .they were a
lien npon the barque. I admit that I can perceive no distinction
in principle between the personal liability of the general owners and the liability of the vessel. For whatever may be the
rights and liabilities of the master and owners, as between
themselves, upon their private contract, they cannot affect the
rights of third parties dealing, with him in his character of
master, and furnishing necessary repairs and supplies in a foreign port at his request. They know him only as master, anddeal .with him in that character. And it is the rule of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

43

Thomas a~at. v. Osborn.

maritime law, as settled in my judgment by the decisions in
the courts of this country, that in a case of that kind the owners pewonally, as well as the vessel, are liable for the amount.
But if the owner is present, and they are furnished to him, it
is equally well established, that.the credit is presumed to have
been given to him personally, and'no lien on the vessel is implied. The decisions in the State courts cannot therefore, it
would seem, be reconciled to the decisions of the Circuit Court
of the United States, hereinbefore referred to.
But however this may be, the implied lien on the vessel in
cases like the lone before us has been maintained in the Circuit
Court. And as the question of maritime lien, with which we
are now dealing, belongs peculiarly to the admiralty courts, and
the paramount jurisdiction in such cases is vested in them by
the Constitution of the United States, it necessarily follows,
that it must rest with them to interpret the contract, and to
determine whether it created a lien or not, and how, and when,
and against whom, it can be enforced.
In the case of the barque Chusan, 2 Story's Rep., 462, he
pays: "1The Constitution of the United States has declared that
the judicial power of the National Government shall extend to
l cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; and it is not
competent for the States, by local legislation, to.enlarge or limit
or narrow it. In the exercise of this admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, the courts of the United States are exclusively
governed by the legislation of Congress, and in the absence
thereof by the general principles of maritime law. The States
have no right td prescribe the rules by which the courts of the
United States shall act, nor the jurisprudence which they shall
administer."
The opinions of the State tribunals to which I have referred
are certainly entitled to very high respect, upon any question
of law that may come before them; yet the question before us
is not one of. State law. It is a clontract for maritime service,
and belongs to the admiralty courts of the United States. And
the State decisions, therefore, however highly we respect them,
carry with them no binding judicial authoiity, when in conflict
with the decisions of the courts of the United States upon questions belonging to the Federal courts. And I the more firmly
adhere to the doctrines of the Circuit Oourt, hereinbefore
sthted, because, as I have already said, I can see nothing in the
terms of the contract, or in its character and objects, that would
justify a different construction. In my opinion, therefore,
Leach had no ownership in the Iaura, and in the, contract in
question exercised the powers of master, and nothing more.
Such being, in my judgment, the meaning and legal effect

44

SUPREME COURT.
Tkoma

d al v. 0bon.

of the contract between the owners and Leach, the next question to be considered is, was he still master when these repairs
and supplies were furnished?
. The appellants contend, that if he was not owner, but only
master, while he was sailing the barque, he yet ceased to be
master when he remained at Valparaiso, and placed the vessel
under the command of Easton, and that from that time Easton
was the master; and the contract of Leach for repairs and supplies would therefore create no lien. Undoubtedly, the conduct
of Leach in this respect was a violation of his duty to the ownerI, if he acted without their consent. He was to sail the vessel himself, and this personal trust and confidence could not be
transferred by him to another. Such a transfer would be a
breach of his contract, and of his duty under it. But that is a
question between him and his owners, and they might displace
him or not, as they saw proper. The point here is, did his
official relation as master cease when he engaged in conmercial pursuits, and remained on shore at Valparaiso?
Certainly, the misconduct of a captain, while on a voyage or
in a foreign port, does not, ipso facto, deprive him of his office.
It would be a sufficient reason for the owners to dismiss him;
but in this case it is not pretended that he was dismissed or
suspended by them. No other person was appointed to the
command until after he had voluntarily surrendered it to the
owners, after his return to Massachusetts in the spring of 1852.
And these supplies had been furnished, at his request, months
before the new master was appointed.
lNor did he abandon his official relation to the vessel while
he remained at Valparaiso; but, on the contrary, continued to
hold possession in person or by his agent, and to exercise the
rights and authority of master, according to the terms of his
contract with the owners. He continued to man and victual
her, direct her voyages, and receive the freights. Easton was
paid.by him, and not by the owners; he acted under the direction ofLeach, as his agent and subordinate, and not uider the
direction of the owners. He was not even allowed to receive.
the freight; and when the supplies in question were furnished,
Leach was actually on board, in actual command, and Easton
acting as his subordinate, under his orders. And as Leach had
no ownership whatever in the vessel, all of this must have been
done by him as master, and could have been done in no other
character; for if he had abandoned that official position, and
Easton was master, he had no authority over Easton, nor any
more right to intorfere with him on the vessel than any other
stranger.
Nqor is his absence from the vessel by any means incompati-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
homas et al. v. O.born.

ble with this official relation and authority. It is not necessary
for the existence of such a relation, and the exercise of such an
authority, that he should always be on her deck. He may be
absent for a longer oi shorter time, and at a greater or lesser distance, without forfeiting his authority; and when once appointed master by the owners, he continues master until displaced
by them, or he himself surrenders the office. ,As respects a
dismissal by the owners, Mr. Justice Story says, in the case of
the Tribune, 3 Sum. Rep., 149, "Being once master, he must
be deemed still to continue to hold that character until some
overt act or declaration of the owners displaced him from the
station." And certainly there was no such act or declaration
while Leac1h continued in the counting-house of Loring & Co.
And as to. Leach himself, it is obvious, from the facts above
stated, that he had not resigned or surrendered the command.
It is said that Easton was master. By what authority was
he master? He was not agent of the owners; he was not appointed by them, nor authorized by them to exercise any control over the ship. Nor would they have been bound by his
contracts if he had made any, nor responsible for his acts.
There were none of the relations and trusts which exist between
owners and master, for they had not confided the ship to him,
and were not even responsible for his wages; and if Leach was
not master, and authorized to bind the vessel and owners by
his contract, the vessel was sailing without one, and without
any lawful authority from those to whom she belonged. It is
true, Leach says he -appointed him master; but.that doesrnot
clothe him with the authority which the maritimhe law annexes
to that character, unless Leach had lawful power fo appoint
him. He might, no doubt, have properly sent him on the
voyage, and placed the vessel under his command while he remairmed on shore, if the interest of the owners required or would
justify it. And he might, if he pleased, call him master or
captain; but by whatever name he chose to call him, he would
be nothing more than his subordinate and agent. He would
not, in respect to the owners or third persons, possess the authority of master.
The cases of L'Arina v. The brig Exchange, Bee's Reports,
198, and the same v. Manwaring, 199, are directly in point on
this head. There the party was appointed by the master as
captain, and cleared the vessel as such at Havana; yet this appointment was held by the court not to give him the legal
relation of captain to the vessel, nor displace the master appointed by the owners; and it was held that the contract of
the latter, within the scope of his authority as master, was still
binding upon the owners. The fact, therefore, that Leach re-

46

SUPREME COURT.
Thwma.d a7- v. oa0wn

mained on shore, and sent the vessel upon different voyages
under the command of an agent appointed by him, did not of
itself displace him;-he was still master of the barque, with all
the powers and respon'sibilities which are attached to that character. And if the fact that he remained on shore did not
deprive him of his, official character, the circumstance that he
was engaged during that time in commercial pursuits cannot
alter the case. It cannot make any difference, in this respect,
whether he remained idle or.employed himself in any particular pursuit.
But it is said that Leach was not only absent from the barque,
but he was employing her in -violation of the orders of the owners, who disapproved of his conduct, and had directed him to
bring the vessel home, and that Loring & Co. knew it, and yet
encouraged and enabled him to go on in the violation of his
duty, by-large advances of money. And it is insisted; that as
Loring & Co. were aiding and encouraging him in this breach
of duty, and the supplies in question were furnished to enable
him .to persevere in it, they were furnished in- bad faith to the
owners; and in a court of admiralty, acting upon equitable
prinbiples, can create no bbligation upon them, nor any lien
upon their vessel.
If the facts assumed were established by the testimony, I
should not dispute the law as above stated. But I think the
fact that the owners disapproved of his remaining on shore, and
engaging in mercantile pursuits, is not only not established,
but, on the contrary, the weight of the testimony is on the
other side, and, notwithstanding the evasive and ambiguous
answers of Leach, tends strongly to prove that his conduct in
this respect met their approbation.
In examining the- testimony in relation to this question of
fact, it is ne-cessary, in order to see the force to which it is entitled, to state itmore minutely than I have done in the preceding part of this opinion, and to note particularly the dates
as given by the witness.
The disapproval of the appellants is brought out by the fol-.
lowing question, put by the appellants, the owners:
"Was your remaimng in the Pacific and trading with the
Laura done with the consent and approval of the owners?"
To this question Leach simply answers, "No, sir."
Upon the cross-examination upon behalf of the libellants,
the .following interrogatories were put to him, to whicb,-he
gave the following answers:
Question. "When was their (the owners) dissent;made
known to you?."

DECBMER nUM, 1856.

47

Thomcd aL v. OaWorm.

Answer. "I thin it was the second time I was at Valpara.so, which, I think, -was in the latter part.of 1849,1
- Question. "At what period did the owners take efficient
'steps to displace you ?-at -any period- before Captain Westoin
was sent out?"
Answer. "Thy did iot.take any efficient steps, any furgher
than to request me to'come home."
. These answers .constitute the entire proof of disapproval anddissent"of the owvners, of which so inuch has been said -in the
argument, and .which- has been so confidently assumed as a
fact proved.
It will be observed that the question put by the owners does
not point, and clearly was not intended to point, to any disapproval on their part of his remaining on .shore, or engaging in
trade at Valparaiso. It relates altogether to the employment
of
the barque in the Pacific, instead of. the Atlanti. In fact,
it could .not have related to iis remaining on shore, or enSgaging in trade, because the -notice of disapproval appears to
ave b~een given but once, and. was given and received while
Leachwas stil sailing-the vessel under the "lay," and'seeking
and carrying freights, and before he had purchased a single'
ca.go for himself, or absented'himself from her for 4: single
"voyqge.' It was never repeated, although he remiined neary
two-yeg aftirwarA, enga ed in commerce, and on shore in
the counting-hoase of the libellants nearly half the time.
The fact- is clearly established.:by Leacl's a swers -to the
oross-interrogatories abloe 'given.-• It will be observed that in
these answeb he sayshe.thinks their disa 'robationwas made
known to him the second time he was at, alpataiso, which h6
ow, in the preceding
hinks Was in the latter part of. 1849.
part of his, examination he had stated positively that he arrived
at Valparaiso from Rio with a cargo -n freight, coIsigned to
Loring & Co., in lNovember, 1849, and arrived there-the second
time in July, 1850. Without stopping to cbmment upon the
hesitating languages and thevagueness and uncertainty of this
answer in relation to fact which it is :bbvious, from the prein his recollection,
ceding.part of his testimony, was perfectlt
it~is sufficient to say, tla, "give him either date, it is evident
that the disapproval-of the owners haa no connection with his
merbantile pursuits, and pointed merely to the employment of
the Laura in freighting voyages on the _Pfcific, instead of the
Atlantic; for if the notice 3yas.received by him in 1849, it was
before he had engaged in that coasting tralle, and must have
-been written by the owners in consequence of information
given them by each from Rio, concern'mgkthe freight he had
obtained there for Valparmiso 'and'.of his .intention to seek

-

48

SUPREME

OURT.

Thomae. et al. v. Oebom.

freights on that coast; for this was his first voyage in the
Laura to the Pacific. He had not then engaged in the coasting trade on that ocean, and had done nothing in that respect
for the owners to disapprove of. And if he did receive the
notice, as he says, in 1849, upon his arrival at Valparaiso, it
must have been a disapproval of what he informed them he
proposed to do; not of what he was doing or had done. Certainly it had no relation to his trading on his own account, for
there is not the slightest evidence that he had any such design
at that time, nor for nearly a year afterwards.
. And if we take the other date, the argument is equally
strong; for, if he received it on that occasion, it must have
been written some time before. -And it was oiq his second
visit to Valparaiso, in Jvly, 1850, that he for the first time
engaged in mercantile pursuits on his own account, and obtained advances for that purpose from Loring & Co. if the
notice reached him at that time, and before he commenced his
commercial speculations, the dissent must have applied to the
place at which he had been seeking freights, and not to his
private speculations. Indeed, taiking this as the date of the
receipt of the notice, the inference is almost irresistible, that
the owners must have been apprised of his intention to purchase, cargoes on his own account, and approved of it, for he
had been engaged, when he received this notice, in seeking
freights in' the Pacific for about nine months. He had not, it
appears, been successful; and after -his first cargo from Valpa.
raiso to San Francisco, he sailed-most commonly from port to
port in ballast, or with very inconsiderable' cargoes; and as
Leach was in constant correspondence with. the owners,' they
were of course apprised of his want of success, and would
very naturally disapprove of his remaining in the Pacific,
where, the earnings of the vessel would give them very little
for their share of the freights. But this notice, as I have said,
does not appear-to have been repeated.. Leach does not pretend that any complaints "of his conduct were subsequently
made by'the owners; and the natural inference is, that having
confidence in Leach's prudence and judiment, when in reply
to this communication they were apprised by him of his determination to purchase cargoes on his own account for the
Laura, and thus insure constant employment for her and full
freights, they were willing he should remain and carry out his
plan. And this conclusion is strengthened by the circum-.
stance that no.measures were afterwards taken'by the owners
to comp.el or induce him to return, and that he remained without further complaint, engaged in these pursuits until he himself found them unprofitable, and determined to reurm home.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Thonm d aL V. 0Osorn.

.ie is asked,.in one of the interrogatories: "At what period
did the owners take efficient steps to displace you?-at any
period before Captain Weston was sent out?"
And he
answers: "They did not take any efficient stps, any further
than to request me to come home." And in answer to another
interrogatory he says, he did not yield to their wishes, because
he thought he had a right to remain there if he chose. There
was no order, therefore; no charge of misconduct; no notice
athat
request
they whic
would Leach
put andid
endnot
to comply
the contract;
with, because
nothinghe
more
than
thought
that while the owners suffered the contract to continue, he had
a right to select the theatre of his operations, and to act upon
his own judgment. And undoubtedly he 'was right in this
respect, unless the owners put an end to the contract, which
they might have done at any moment, if they supposed him to
be no longer acting in the line of his duty. But whatever
might have been their opinion as to the soundness of his judgment in selecting the Pacific instead of the Atlantic for the
-employment of the vessel, when they requested him to return,
they undoubtedly acquiesced in his opinion when they received
his answer declining to return, and continued for nearly two
years afterwards to sanction his conduct, by suffering him to
remain there, receiving remittances from hini, and paying his
dras, and settlinoBhis account, without making the slightest
objection to allow'im one-half "thefreights, according to the
contract, for his services as master. And the charge of taking
the vessel to the Pacific, and illegally detaining her there for
his own benefit and advantage, was never heard of until payment for the repairs and supplies furnished to their barque was
made by the libellants. And if such a defence had been founded in fact, it would have been easy for the owners to prove it
conclusively by-producing the correspondence between them
and Leach. But no part of-it has been offered in evidence.
The fair. inference from' the testimony therefore is, that they
assented to his proceedings, and approved of his remaining,
after receiving his answer to the request'for his return.
ut" if the ase were otherwise in this particular, and it had
.been proved that Leach illeally and against their orders detained the Laura in the Pacific, I do not see how that would
affect the claim of- the libellants, unless in furnishing those
supplies they knowingly aided and abetted him in his breach
of duty to the owners. The argument is, that they did knowingly aid and abet him. -But*it wotild be 4 sufficient answer
to it to say, that 4o such charge is made against them in the
Sanswer; itis made against Leach; but there is not the slighfest intimation that Loring & Co. had' any' knowledge of it.
VOL. xIX.
4

SUPREME COURT.
Thwoma8 eg al. v. Ozborn.

And as this defence is not taken in the answer, it cannot be
relied on here, even if there was evidence in the record which
would
But justify
there isit.not the slightest evidence to prove it. On the
contrary, it appearsby Leach's testimony, that when he arrived
at Valparaiso, with the cargo consigned to Loring.& Co., he
told them upon what terms he was sailing the vessel, and the
deep interest he had in her earnings; and thinks it, probable
he mentioned the contingent right he had of purchasing oneeighth of the vessel, if he could raise the money to pay for itThe fact that he had been trusted with so much p6wer over
such a vessel -as the Laura and would even be received as a
partner if.he could raise lhe money, naturally induced Loring
& Co. to think him worthy of confidence. - And they. appear
to have aided him in procuring freights, while he confinedhimself to that business. They evidently had no knowledge of
any dissatisfdction on the part of the owners, for Leach -states
positively that nobody but himself knew of it. And when,
therefore, hi proposed to purchase cargoes on his own account,
-which would give the Laura constant employment and full
freights, they could have had no reason to suppose that his
owners disapproved of it. And when these supplies were
furnished, they had strong grounds for believing that his con,duct in this respect was known to the owners, and met their
.approbation; for they had then,seen him for nearly two years"
,engaged in this business, during all that time in correspondence with his owners, and occasionally niaking remittances to
them, and drawing bills "on them, (as Leach -himself states,)
which appear to have been duly hon.ored, and without the
:slightest token of disapproval, as far as Loring & Co. had an
opportunity of seeing. There was nothing to create suspicion
put them on inquiry. The
horadvances made to him were
,nade in the re'glar course of their business, and at the usual
ates. for interest and commissioi
in that
of the
world;
promoting
they were
th quarter
ad they had every reason to believe
t he objects and advancing the interests of the owners, as the

•advances made to Leach enabled him to keep the Laura conlag
stantly employed with full cargoes, thereby.
the one-ha
freights, of which the owners were entitIed to earning
Lorng & Co. had no knowledge of the state of his accounts
rith the owners;_and no reason even for suspecting that he
did not remit to them their share of the freights, or that he
smnroperly used or withheld it.
Th? case then upon the points already examined may be,
summed up as follows:
lst At the time these repairs were made' and supplies fur-.

DECEMBER TEM, 1856.

51

Thomas d aL v. Otbor

nished,. Leach was in full posses~ion of the barque, exercising
Sauthority as master, ider his dontract 'with the owners
hereinbefore stated.. 2d. He was recogised and aid as'such
by
the owners.
3d. Hethe
wasslightest
dalt with
as such
& Co.,
in good
faith, without
grounds
forbyYoring
suspecting
that
the owners disapproved of his conduct, or had requested him

to brine the vessel home; .4th. The repairs and supplies were
necessary to enable her to go to se, and she must have remained idle in 'the port, if they -had not been furnished; and
they were made an furnishe with p.rudence and economy,
under Leach's own direction. 5th. He -hA ;o money except
the . five hundred dollars hereinbefore mentioned, which he
needed foi-his personal expenses, and had no.funds either of
his own'or the owners withi-his reach, with. which he could
make these repairs or obtain the. necdssary supplies.
These facts appear to; me to be conclusively established by
:Leach's own testimony. And asit is admitted, on all hands,
that the repairs were made and the supplies furnished at his
request and by his order, it follows, from the decisions in this
court, and at the 'circuits to which I have already referred,
that, by the maritime code of the United States, Loring & Co.
obtained an.implied lien on the vessel for the amount, unless it
can be shown that they.were' furnished on:.the personal credit
'of Leach or some other person.
.Anattempt 'hAs been made to offer'such proof; and to show
that the supplies were furnished upon the personal credit of
Leach. But it is an' obvious failure. He is asked by them
whether the repots and supplies were furnished upbn his responsibility? or the credit of the vessel? or how otherwise?
He answers, "I presume'they were furnished'on my responsibility.". And this is the whole and only evidence offered by
the appellants to show that they were furnishod on the personal credit of Leach, and not on that of the vessel or owners.
Certainly, such evidence can hardly'be sufficient to remove
the implied lien given by law. -Whether.the credit was given
to him was a .question. of fact. If tha fact was so, he must
have known it, and could have sworn' to it in direct terms.
But instead of this;,he merely expresses an opinion in general
terms, and gives no reason for that opinion, 'and states no fact
from which it might be inferred that -this .opinion -was well
founded. The answer is;:in truth, no evidence; it is but the
opinion or conjecture of the witness; and,' even if there was
no evidence in the, record to contradict it, would leave the cose
upon the-implied lien which the law createsBut it is directly'in conflict with the written instruments
signed by the wihness' himself at the time of the transaction.

SUPREME COURT.
Thomo

el at. v. Obom'.

The acc*ount for those repairs and supplies is headed, as I have
already said, "Barque Laura and owners, to Loring f Co., Dr."
It is signed by Leach, and admitted by him, in writing, to be
correct. He of course read the account, and was undoubtedly
a man of sufficient'intelligence to understand the meaning of
words. And how could tlie barque and owners be debtors for
those supplies, if they were furnished exclusively on the credit
of Leach? How could they be debtors to Loring & Co., unless they were furnished on their credit?
It'is true, Leachsays- he signed the account only for the
purpose of verifying the items. But this is evidently an afterthought; for he admits, by his signature, not only the correctness of the items, but the account itself-that is, the charge
against the barque and owners, as well as the things charged.
this account.
no necessity
verifyitems
the
merely to The
intended
thereif was
was for
his signature
items,
Besides;
inserted in the other account, sigied by
ought to havesame
at the beentime, which contains the charges for which
him
of that
and histoadmission
liable;
personally
he
was have
And
items.account
verify these
sufficient
been quite
would
adsigned
stated,
accounts
the factbythat
repairs
theand
charging
one and
day, the
same were
on the
himtwo
mited

and supplies to the barque and owners, and the other charging
him, as "Captain Phineas Leach, for other articles properly
chareable to himself, .shows that both parties understood

what they were about; and, to avoid future cavil, stated their
accqunts agaist the respective debtors, according to their
And the insertion of the
mutual understanding at the time.
aggregate amount for repairs and supplies, in the account

against Leach, coupled with the account against the barqe
and owners, proves conolusively that the parties intended to
make no special contract with Leach for those relairs and
supplies, nor to take any special hypothecation or bottomy
onthe vessel, but dealt with one another upon the established
rules of maritime law, which, in the absence of any special
contrat, made the barque and owners, and Leach himself, responsible for the amount.
In order to give some color to his statement, that he presumes they were furnished on his credit, he says that his credit
was at that time good. If he had shown that it was in fact
good, it would be no reason for presuming that Loring & Co.
relied upon it, and waived the other securities to which they
were entitled. But the record shows that it was not good,
and that Loring & Co., in the advances they made to him at
the same thie or the purchase of cargo on his private inditidral account, did not think it prudent to rely altogether upon

DECEMB1ER TERMW 1856.

53

Thoma. d aL v. 0850-M

his credit. For the heading of the invoice of the cargo pmrchased upon that occasion, which. I have already set forth, in
full, expressly required that- the sales and returns should be
made. by the consignee to Loring & Co. "And Leach admits
that the cargo was to be insured, and the loss; if any, to be
paid .to Loring & Co. And from his own testimony, as-well
as the invoice, it is evident that it was understood by the parties that the proceeds of. the cargo were to be r mitted from
Pabama by the consignees to Loring & Co. For he is asked
by the libellants, ",Was there not- an understanding that the
proceeds should be remitted by your consignees tL6ring &
Co.?" and he answers, "I don't know that there was." But
he is again pressed-by. the inquiry, "'Will you reflect and see
if you cannot answer thtt question directly that there was ?"
and he theni answers, "1There was no such understanding; it
might be understood; there was nothing promised." I give
the words of the witness;. but I cannot be convinced by this
nice. casuistry of Captain Leach, in distinguishing an understanding between the parties from a promise, that his credit was
still good with Loring & Co., notwithstanding the evidence to
the contrary in-the agreement in the heading of the invoice,
and in the admitted agement in relation to the insurance.
It certainly does not pro ve -it so high as to create a presumption that'all other securities were waived, from their conndence in the .personal responsibility of Leach; nor did his
subsequent conduct show: that he merited even the confidence
hey did repose in him. For he went to Panama and procured
advances to himself; on account of the cargo,. to the amount
of $2,100, and auth6rized large disbursements to:be made by
his consignee to his agent, Easton, for the use of the Laura,
and proceeded to Massachusetts without returning to Valparaiso i and after he came home, he drew on his cohsignees for
$375 ffiore to pay-Weston's expenses, who was sent out by thq
owners, and during all that time rendered no account to Loring & Co., and left them. under the impression that the proceeds would in good time be remitted 6, them. It seems they
were. not aware -of the distinction which Leach took between
the niutual understanding between them and an actual and
formal promise.
The point, therefore, taken by the owners, that the repairs
and supplies were fur ished on the personal 'credit of Leach,
eafinotim my judgment, be maintained. And, undoubtedly,
the justice of thQ case is clearly with the libellants. The captain was without fands, and his owners had none in Valparaiso;
and 'the barque must have remained in port a wasting hulk if
the means had not been fuimished by'Loring & Co., which en-

SUPREME -COURT.
Trhomas d aL. v. Oabom,

abled her to sail. The owners have since received her, and
now hold her in their possession, -increased in value by those.
repairs, which enabled her to confe home, and which were
made by the money of Loring & Co. And they have also received the -reights which those repairs enabled her afterwards
to earn hinder the command of Weston. Justice, as well as
the principles of the law, would seem to require that those who
have reaped the profit of the advances should repay the party
io whom they are indebted for their gains.
It remains to inquire whether the hen has been waived, by
the delay in prosecuting it, or the debt been satisfied in any•
other way. .
.
'I shall dispose of those questions very briefly, For I am
Isensible that the great importance and delicacy of thd points
hereinbefore discussed, -have compelled me to extend this discussion beyond the limits of an orinary o inion in this'court.
IIn relation to the alleged iwaiver by the delay, the mere
statement of the evidence is an answer to the objection, and
the evidence is this: The repairs were made and the sup plies
fur.ished in the spring of 1852.. The barque returned to Yalparalso in the NTovember following, when Weston immediately
assumed the command. ' He was ordered by the owners toprocure, if he coulda cargo.of guano, and to bring the vessel
to an Atlantic port. He did so; and he arrived in Baltimore
mn the June following, and the vessel was arrested on this libel
few days after her arrival.'
The barque still belongs to the same owners. When Weston
arrived at Valparaiso to take the command,,he had no money,
and was obliged to -raise what he needed by a -bill on his
owners. At:Aat time, Loring & Co.. had no reason to suppose
fhat the owners would refuse to pay this claim; and if they
had then arrested the vessel, it would have broken up the voyage upon. which she was destined, and subjected the owners
to heavy losges by her detention. And it certainly ought not
to be a matter of complaint on their part, that, under such'
circumstances, he did not arrest her, and took no measures to
p-iforce his claim, until he' found that payment was refused;
and it is unnecessary to cite cases to prove that the omission
to'arrest her at 'Valparaiso under such, circumstances cannot
be regarded as a waiver of their lien, upon any principle of
law. There was no unreasonable delay in notifying the
owners of the claim, nor in filing the libel when they disputed
it. The Laura in the intervening time remained in the possession and employment of the owners; no third party hadbecome interested,-and the owners .were greatly benefited

DECEMBER TERMf 1856..
Tlw ma d aL v. Otbon.

by the omission to arrest her until she arrived in the United
States.
It is said that Weston proves that nothing was said to him
about their account, and 'hence it is inferred, that nothing was
due-on it, or that it was not supposed by Loring & Co. to be a
charge on the Laura. But it must be rememlered that the
house of Loring & Co., with whom Leach dealt, had dissolved
partnership in thb June preceding Wesfon's arrival, and a new
one, with new partners in it, established under the same name.
It .is
true, that: Mr. Atherton, a partner in the first firm, remained there, and was attending to .their business. But the
transactious of Westoh were with the new firm, and it would
have been useless for .therton to present this claim to Weston,
ualess he had'determined to libel the vesiel. For, as I have
said, Westdn had no money but what he obtained, from the
-new house of Loring & Co.,.for his bill on his owners, and
this Atherton kmew.. Besides, the proceeds of 'her cargo
ahipped to Peyta and' Panama, as hereinbefore mentioned, at
the time these repairs and supplies were furnished, were to be
paid .to Loring & Co.; and when Weston .was at Valparaiso,
the account of these proceeds had not been received. It was
most probably supposed, by Loring & Co., that they. might
prove sufficient' to pay their' claim against Leach, icludmng
thse supplies. And this, it appears, would have been- the
case if Leach ! d not improperly converted a large portion of.
them
to his own use,therefore,
and to satisfy
the Loring
claims &
of Co.
his toowners
against himi. 'Justice,
required
await
the
result. They did wait, and did receive some money fron
this source, but not enough to pay even the advances for the
.
,
,
cawso itself.
Ths is admittedi in the argument. But it is said the money

received should be first applid to etinguish the lie: first,
because there was a security bound for that item-that is, the
vessel; and secondly; because-it - is the first item in the aca
count
t
w, the onelusive anse r to his objection is, that, if no
specific application Was made by either party at the time of
payment, the law appropriates it according to the principles
of equity. And, as the money received from Panama was the
,proceeds of goods purchased with the money advanced by Lo-.

eng & Co. for .that urpose, equity will apply it in the first
lace to the payment '6f that debt.
Indeed,. there is enough in the invoice and the testimony of
peach to show that the proceeds were to be so applied by the
agreement between Leach and Loring & Co., when the" advances were made. And they were accordingly so applied, as

56,

SUPREME COURT.
Ure v. Cofman d a.

far as they would go, when the money was received by them.
The fact that the'claim now in question was secured by a lien
on the Laura, can surely be no reason for applying the money
in the first place to discharge it. On the contrary, it would
bb a sufficient reason against such an application, and would
be a good ground for postponing it until all the claims for
which the creditor had no security were first satisfied.
I do not comprehend how the argument that it is the first
item in the account can apply: In point of fact, however, it
is not the first or oldest item in the account, as I understand
the transaction. And, if the lien on the vessel was originally
valid, it is evident that it has never been discharged, or waived,
or forfeited by unreasonable delay.
Some other items for necessaries furnished at Peyta, on the
last voyage of the Laura to that port, and also a small charge
for bread at Valparaiso, and which are not .included in the account signed by Leach, were allowed by the -Circuit Court,
and are included in the amount decreed. These items, the
counsel fbr the respondents insist, ought not to be allowed,
even if those in the account are sustained. I think, when the
whole testimony is examined, it will be evident that these
charges stand on the same principles with: those of which I
have already spoken. But I fbrbear to extend this opinion by
discussing that question; because, as the court have determined that the- repairs and supplies furnished, at the request
of Leach, are not a lien on the vessel, it is useless to examine
particular items, when the opinion of the court goes to the
whole.
Fromn'that opinion I respectfully dissent. And, after carefully revi6wing the case in all of its bearings, and scrutinizing
the evidence, .I adhere to the opinion I held in the Circuit
Court.

JAMES 11. TJRB, CLAIMANT OF TE STE~mEa GipSEY, APPELM. COFFMAN ,AND~ CYR11S. COMN, OWNERS,
LATI -V.-JAMES
or FLA -R
AND CARGo.
Where a flat-boat which was fastened to the bank of the Mississippi river at.
night, was run down and sunk by a steamer, the circumstances show that the
steamer was in. fault, and must be responsible for the loss.
It was not nec~sary for the flat-boat, in the position which it occupied, to shD* a
light duringthe night.
When a boat or vessel of any kind is fastened for the night at a landing place tA
which other boats may have occasion to make a landing in the night, it is cer-

tainly prudent ftr- her posion, to be designated, by a-light, on her own aceeint,

