202

SUPREME COURT.
Cousi& v. Blanc'a Executor e al.

its decision available for the appellants, if its view of the merits
of the case had coincided with.the opinion of the district judge,
or upon which its pr6cess could have been issued to carry out
the judgment given by it in favor of the respondents. Nor
could it have permitted an amendment of the record of appeal
by the insertion of what the' arties might have agreed to be
a final judgment as to -amount, without its having first received the judicial sanction of the district judge. And this
court is as powerless in this respect as the Circuit Court was,
as its jurisdiction depends upon that court having a proper
legislative jurisdiction of the case. It cannot overlook the fact
upon which its jurisdiction depends, by any action in the cpse in
the Circuit Court upon 12n irregular appeal. The case in that
court was coram non judice, and is so here. • The appellants
have the right to the execution of the order given by the districtjudge to the commissioner and clerk of the court, to ascertain the charges to be made against' the respective parties to
the suit, and to state an account between them; for which
purpose he was authorized to use the testimony already reported, and such further testimony as might be brought before
him in relation to that point. That the Circuit Court cannot
direct to be done, nor can this court -d6 so. All that we can
do in the case, as it stands here, is-to reverse the decree of the
Circuit Court dismissing the appellants' libel, to send the case
back to the Circuit Court, that the appeal in it may be dismissed by it for want of its jurisdiction, leaving the case in its
condition before the appeal to that court, that the parties may
carry out the case in the District Court to a final decree, upon
such a report as the commissioner and clerk may make, according to the order which was given by the judge. The judgment
of the Circuit Court is reversed accordingly.

TERENCE COUSIN, PLAINTIFF IN -ERiOR,

v.

FANNY

WiDow AND TESTAmENTARY EXECUTRIX, JULES

LABATUT,

A. BLANc, Co-

ExEcuToR, AND OTHERS, LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES oF.EVARISTE

BLAc."

In Louisiana, all the evidence taken in the court below goes up to the Supreme
Court, which decides questions of fact as well as of law. In the absence of bills
of exceptions, setting forth the points of law decided in the case, this court must
look to the opinion of the State court, (made a part of the record by law,) in order to see whether or not any question has been decided there which would give
this court appellate jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary
act.
A claim to land in Louisiana was presented to the commissioner appointed under
the act of 1812, (2 Stat. at L., 713,) reported favorably upon by him to Congress,

DECE[BER TERM, 1856.
Cowsin v. Blane's Ezecutor et al.
and confirmed by the act of 1819, (3 Stat. at L., 528.) But it did not appear
that this claim had been surveyed, or that it had any definite boundaries.
In 1820, the register and receiver gave to the claimant a certificate that he was entitled to a patent, but without saying how it was to be located.
In 1822, Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at L., 707) giving to the registers and re-ceivers power to direct the location and manner of surveying the claims to land
confirmed by the act of 1819.
In 1826, the register and receiver ordered the claim to be surveyed, speaking of it,
however, as being derived from an original claimant, different from the person
who was mentioned as the original claimant in the certificate of 1820.
The act of 1822 was remedial, and this difference was immaterial.
When the survey was executed according to that order, it gave a prima facie title,
and the United States were bound by it until it was set aside at the General
Land Office. The Supreme Court of Louisiana were in error when they decided
that it gave no title, and this court has jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, to review that judgment.
But until the survey was made and approved, the United States could sell the land,
and a purchase of a part of it must stand good.

THIS case was brought up, from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the twentyffth section of the judiciary act.
As this case will probably be much referred to hereafter, as
settling some general principles of great importance, it may be
well to state in this report the precise nature of the certificates
of confirmation and order of survey.
Under the act of Congress of April 25, 1812, (2 Stat. at L.,
718,) Cousin presented a donation claim to the commissioners
appointed under that act. On the 2d of January, 1816, the
commissioners reported as follows upon this claim, calling it
No. 255, and placing it in class B. (See American State
Papers, Public Lands, vol. 3, p. 56.)
By whom claimed.

Original Claimant.

Nature of claim, and from what authority derived.

Order of survey.
F. Cousin ...............
Stephen Pn6 ........

Date of claim. Quantity claimed. Where situated. By whom issued.

__
Sept. 10, 1789..

veyed.

St. Tammany...
1,000................

By whom surveyed.

When sur-

E. Miro .............

Inhabited and cultivated from

to

General remarks.

204

SUPEME COURT.
Cousin v. Blans'Ezecutor d aS

It will be observed that the name of the original claimant is
here said to have been Stephen R6n6. No survey or location
of the land was made under this certificate.
In 1819, Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at L., 528) confirming this claim amongst many others, and on the 8th of June,
1820, the register and receiver gave to Cousin the following
certificate:
[Cei-tificate of Confirmation.]

Commissioner's Report, Letter -B, Certificate No. 178.
LAND OFFICE, ST. HELENA.
In pursuance of the act of Congress passed the 3d of March,
1819, entitled "An act- for adjusting the claims to land, and
establishing land offices for the district east of the island of
New Orleans," we certify that claim No. 255, in the report
of the commissioner marked B, claimed by Francis Cousin,
orioinal claimant, Stephen ene, is confirmed as adonation,
and entitled to a paint for one thousand arpens, situated in
St. Tammany, and claimed under an order of survey dated
10th September, 1798.
Given under our hands, this 8th day of June, 1820.
Attest:

(Signed)

CHARLES S. COSBY,

F.

HERAULT,

Clerk.

FULWER SKIPwITH,

Register.
-Receiver.

It will be observed that the name of the original claimant is
here mentioned as Stephen RWn6, and there is no mode of survey pointed out, the original order of survey not being produced.
In 1822, Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at L., 707) giving
to the registers and receivers power to direct the location and
manner of surveying the claims to land confirmed by the act
of 1819.
On the 21st of September, 1826, the register and receiver
gave to Cousin the following order of survey:
[Order of Survey.]

LAND OFFICE, ST. HELENA.

Franeis Cousin, Certificate No. 178,
Dated June 8th, 1820.

f

ST. T wmANY, Sept. 21, 1826.
Francis Cousin claims a tract of one thousand arpens of
land, situate in the parish of St. Tamnany, as purchaser from
his father, Francis Cousin, deceased, who bought it from Louis
Blanc, who bought it from the original owner, Gabriel Bertrand, and in virtue of certificate 1N-o. 178, dated 8th June, 1820,
and signed Charles S. Cosby, register, and Fulwer Skipwih

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Cousin v. .Blancs Executor et at.

receiver, iA which certificate it is alleged by this claimant that
it is erronebusly set forth that Stephen Ren6 was the original
claifnant; it appearing that this tract of land is fronting on
Bayou la Libcrte, bounded below by the tract of ldnc of Mr.
Girod, and above by a tract of land belonging to claimant.
It isordered that this claim be located and surveyed -ith a
front extending on said bayou, from the land of said Girod to
that of claimant above, and from these points on the bayoa to
ran back for quantity.
Given under our hands, this 21st day of September, 1826.
SAMUEL J. RAMNELLS, .Register.
(Signed)
WILL XKIxEMN, Receiver.
The difference between this certificate and the other, as respects the derivation of title,, will be manifest upon comparing
the two.
Upon this subject, the Supreme Court of Louisiana made
the following remarks:
"The counsel for plaintiff also objects to the certificate of
8th June, 1820, on account of the vagueness of description of
the land donated. We consider this objection to be well
founded. The description is, 'One thousand arpens, situated
in St. Tammany.' It is plainly impossible to locate land by such
a description as this. And when such is the case, the grant
can produce no effect. (16 Peters, U. S. v. Miranda; 10 Howard, Villalobos v. U. S.; 15 Peters, U. S. v. Delestine; 11 Howard, Lecompte v. -U.S.; 5 Annual, Ledoux v. Black.)
"It is proper here to mention that the order of survey of
10th September, 1798, mentioned in the certificate, is not produ~ed, although formally called -for by the opposite party.
Had such an order of survey -ever been given in evidence before the commissioner of land claims, it would have .been recorded in the archives of the land office. (See acts of Congress of 1812 and 1819, above quoted.)
But no such record appears.
"It was-probably a consciousness of this defect in his title,
which induced the defendant's ancestor' to procure from
Rannells. and Kinchen, the successors of Cosby and Skipwith
in the office of register and receiver of the land office at St.
Helena, the order of location and survey of the 21st September, 1826,- which the defendants offer in evidence.
" This paper sets out by declaring that the first certificate
had erroneously stated the origin of defendant's title, gives
another and totally different origin to the same as the correct
one,-and orders a survey to be made, and the defendant's donation to be located on the Bayou Liberte, between the lands

206

SUPREME COURT.
Cousin v. Blanc's Ezecutor ef al.

of certain proprietors named. The survey of Vanzandt was
made in conformity to this order.
"We view the amended certificate of the 21st September,
1826, and the survey under it, as nullities. For the certificate
of Cosby and Skipwith followed strictly the report of the commissioner of land claims, confirmed by the act of Congress of
8d March, 1819. Therefore, in correcting that certificate, Rannells and Kinchen took upon themselves to correct the report
of the commissioner of land claims, and to make the act of
Congress apply to a claim which was not mentioned in that
report, and which was consequently never before Congress.
"The Supreme Court of this State, in the case of Newport
v. Cooper, (10 La. Rep.,) decided that the register and receiver
of the land office at St. Helena were without power, by law,
to reverse and annul a certificate granted by their predecessors. By parity of reasoning, are they without power to make
amendments in such a certificate, which falsify the act of Congress on which the first certificate was based ? If the claimant
could not locate the land claimed by him, under his claim as
presented to the commissioner of land claims, and reported to
Congress, that was a misfortune which the land officers at St.
Helena had no power to remedy, by fabricating for him -a new
claim, seven years after the action of Congress upon the re
port."
Under the order of September 21, 1826, Vanzandt made a surveyin 1845, which was one of the evidences of Cousin's title.
The history of the case in the State courts of Louisiana is
given in the opinion of this court.
It was argued by Mr. Janin for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Benjamin for the.defendants.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Evariste Blanc sued Terence Cousin, in the eighth District
Court of Louisiana, invoking the aid of that court to settle a
disputed boundary between the plaintiff and defendant.
Cousin, instead of responding to the action, for the purpose
of settling boundary, filed an answer, denying Blanc's title to
the property described in his petition, and setting up title in
himself, and claiming damages against Blanc, who joined issue
on the answer, and denied the validity of the title asserted by
Cousin. This turned Cousin into a plaintiff; (as the State
courts held,) and imposed on him the burden of proof to
support his title. It was adjudged in the District Court, on
the documents presented by Cousin, that he had no title whatever to any part of the land in dispute; and so the Supreme

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

207

Cousin v. Blanc's Ezecutor et al.

Court of Louisiana held on an appeal to that court, where the
.cause was reheard.,
Pending the appeal, Blanc died, and his widow and heirs
were made parties. They prayed the benefit of the judgment
of the coiirt below, and also that it might be so amended by
the Supreme Court as to give them the benefit of all that
Blanc claimed in his petition-that is to say, 222.80 acres,
according to cbrtificate No. 1,280,. showing a regular purchase
from the United States, together .with 1,240 arpens in superficies, according to a plan annexed to the original petition of
Blanc; that they might be quieted in the possession thereof as
owners, and that the 1,240 arpens may be bounded 'according
to the plan. And to this effect the court gave judgment.
The laws of Congress, and the acts of the officers executing
them ihi perfecting titles to public lands, have been drawn in
question, and construed by the decision of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana in this:case; and the decision being against the
title set up.by Cousin; under the acts of Congress and the
authority exercised under them, it follows that jurisdiction is
vested in this court, by the 25th section of the judiciary act,
to examine the judgment of the State court; and, in d~ing so,
we refer to the opinion of that' court, which is made part of the
*-ecord by' the laws of Louisiana,. and is explanatory to the
judgment, of which it is there deemed an essential part. We
refer to the opinion, in order to show that questions did arise
and were decided, as required, to give this cburt jurisdiction.
(9 How., 9.) This is necessarily so in cases brought here by
writ of error to the. courts of Louisiana, because no bill of
exceptions is necessary there, -when appeals are prosecuted.
The court of last resort acts on the law and facts as presented
by the whole record.
By relying on this source of information, as to what questions were raised and were decided by the State court, we are
relieved from all difficulty in this instance.
Cousin's claim is assumed to have originated in a Spanish
order of survey laid before the proper dommissioner appointed
under the act -of April 25, 1812, whose duty it was to receive
notices and evidences of claims, which were 'ordered to be
recorded by the commissioner. It was made the duty of the
commissioner to report to the Secretary of the Treasury upon
claims, and the evidences thereof, thus notified to hini; which
report the 'act directed should be laid before Congress by the
Secretary.

-

In January, 1816, the report was transmitted by him to
Congress. By the act of March 3d, 1819, Congress legislated
in regard to the claims reported. By that act, two land

208

SUPREME COURT.
Coudn v. Blanc's Executor et al.

districts were established east of the island of Nfew Orleans,
and a register and receiver were provided for each.
The books of the former commissioners, in which the claims
and evidences of claims were recorded, were directed to be
lodged with the register; and the register and receiver were
vested. with power "to examine the claims recognised, confirmed, or provided to be granted," by the provisions of that
act; they were instructed to make ou~t, for each claimant
entitled in. their opinion thereto, a certificate according to the
nature of the case, pursuant to the instructions of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and, on the presentation at
that office of such certificate, a patent was ordered to be issued.
Francis Cousin's claim was within the above description.
As no provision was made by the act of 1819, vesting
authority in the register and receiver to direct in what manner
confirmed claims should be located and surveyed, it was (sec.
11) left to the deputies of the principal surveyor south of Tennessee, to find the lands, and survey them according to their
own judgment. Then, again,.the surveyors had no authority
to adjust conflicting boundaries, and .therefore further legjslation was deemed necessary; and accordingly the act of June
8, 1822, was passed by Congress, giving the registers and
receivers power to direct the manner in which claims should
be located and surveyed, (sec. 4,) and power was also given to
them to decide between parties whose claims conflicted.
,In June, 1820, the' register and receiver gave Cousin a
certificate of confirmation under the. act of 1819. They certify
"that claim No. 255 in the report of the commissioner, marked
B, claimed by Francis Cousin, original-claimant Stehen R6ne,
is confirmed as a dbnation, and entitled to a patent for one
thousand arpens, situated in St. Tammany, and claimed under
an order of survey dated 10th September, 1798."
Nio Spanish survey was found, to aid the foregoing description.
In 1826, the register and receiver made an order of survey,
as follows:
"Land Office, St. Helena.
"FRA!NCIS

COUSIN, CERTIFICATE No. 178, DATED JUNE 8THI, 1820.

"Francis Cousin claims a tract of one thousand arpens of
land, situate in the parish of St. Tammany, as purchaser from
his father, Francis Cousin, deceased, whobought
it from Louis
Blanc, who bought it from the original owner, Gabriel Bertrand, and in virtue of certificate INo. 178, dated 8th June,
1820, and signed Charles S. Cosby, register, and Fulwer SiDpwith, receiver, in which certificate it is alleged by this claimant that it is erroneously set forth that Stephen Rene was the
original claimant; it appearing that this tract of land is front-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

209

Coutis v. Mlane's Execuor d at.

ing on Bayou la TibertA, bounded below by the tract of land of
r. Girod, and above by a tract of land belonging to -claimant.
"It is ordered that this claim be located and surveyed with
a front extending on said bayou, from the land of said Girod
to that of claimant above, and from these points on the bayou
to run back for quantity."
The Supreme Court of Louisiana held the certificate of 1820
so vague as not to be of any value, and pronounced it void.
Furthermore, that the second one of 1826 departed from -the
confirmation, and was also invalid.' The first purported to be
*for land derived from Stephen RWn6, as original claimant; and
the second, for land of which Gabriel Bertrand was te oiiginal owner.
The act of 1822 is a supplement to the act of 1819; when
-taken together, they gave the register and receiver authority
to declare what land had been confirmed, and how it should
be surveyed. Now, if it be true, as is held by the State court,
,that the'certificate of 1820 is so vague as to be of no value and
void, then it follows, that another could be made in 1826 which
would, be certain in its description of the land confirmed, accompanied by an order of survey. Whether R6n6 or Bertrand
once claimed the land, is immaterial., The confirmation is an
incipient United States title, conferred on Cousin, which our
Government, in its political capacity, reserved to itself the
power to locate by survey, and to grant by the acts of its executive officers; with which acts the courts of justice have no
jurisdiction to interfere. (16 How., 403, 414.)
It rested with the register and receiver to ascertain the locatiotL of the land confirmed to Cousin, from the evidences of
claim recorded and filed with the register; and having decided
*here and how the land should be located and surveyed, the
courts of justice cannot reverse that decision; the power of
revision is vested in the Commissioner of the General Land
Office.
It is proper here to say, we do not hold that the certificate
of 1820 was void, because it was too vague to authorize a survey of the laid. It established the fact that Cousin's claim
was-one of those described in the act of 1819, which had been
confirmed. The act 6f 1822. was remedial; its main object
was to confer power on the register, and receiver to amend
Vague descriptions; so vague that patents could not issue- on
them, as required by the act of, 1819.
The, amendmeift was effectually made in this instance by
the order of survey of 1826; and, when the survey was executed according to that order, the United States Government
VoL. XIX.

14

210

SUPREME COURT.
Cousin v..Banc' Executor d at.

was bound by it until it was set agide at the General, Land
Office.
The act of March 3, 1831, authorized a surveyor general to
be appointed for the State of Louisiana, whose duty it was to
cause confirmed claims to be surveyed; and the registers and
receivers were again empowered (see. 6) to decide in cases of
contested boundaries, and .consequently to control the surveys.
On the 22d of December, 1846, the official survey (accompanied by a plat) of the claim of Francis Cousin, was approved
at the surveyor general's office. This is known as Vanzandt's
survey, and is the one relied on by Cousin in his defence. A
opy thereof, duly certified as a record of the surveyor general's office, is found in the record; and which copy the act of
1831 (see. 5) declares shall be admitted as evidence in the
courts of justice.The act bf 1831 (see. 6) further declares (as respects interfering claims) "that the decisions of the register and receiver,
and tihe surveys and patents that may'be issued in conformity
thereto, shall not in anywise be- considered as precluding a
legal investigation and decision by the proper judicial tribunals
between: the parties to any such interfering claims, but shall
only operate as a relinquishment on the part of the United
States of all title to the land in question." The foregoing
reservation applies here; Cousin's survey extended in depth,
from Bayou LibertY, so as to include 222.80 acres of land, which
had been purchased of the United States by Francis Alpuente,
and on the 4th of March, 1844, (before Cousin's' survey was
made,) duly conveyed to the plaintiff, Blanc, as part of the
succession of Alpuente.
Title to this land is claimed by Cousin by force of his con'irmation, rendered certain by his survey of 1846; and which
'claim was rejected by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, when
they rejected Cousin's title as set up.
We are of opinion that Cousin's title had no standing in a
,court of justice until the land was surveyed, and the survey
-approved as a proper one at the surveyor'general's office; and
'that therefore the United States could lawfully sell the land,
and give title to Alpuente. (8 How., 306.) The mere loose
order of survey, riade in 1826, by the register and receiver,
cannot be recognised in this case as conferring any vested interest, as against Alpuente, to the 222.80 acres purchased by
'trim- and to this extent the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana is proper. But as respects all other parts of Cusin's
survey, it furnishes' prima fade evidence of title, in him, subject to be contested by the opposing title of Blanc, if he has
any by prescription or otherwise.

DECMBOER TERM, 1856.

211

Haruhorn e aL v..Da,.

We order that the judgment be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, to be further proceeded in.

ISAAC HARTSHoiN AND DARIEL HAYWARD, PLnAIrIs n ERRoR v. HoRAcE H. DAY.
"Where a patentee is about to. apply for a renewal of his patent, and agrees with
another person that, in case of success1 he will assign to him the rene*ed patent,
and the patent is renewed, such an agreement is valid, and conveys to the assignee
an equitable title, which can be converted into a legal title by paying, or offering
to pay, the stpulated consideration.
in

agreement lietween Chaffee, the patentee, and Judaon, after the renewal, reci-

ting that the latter had stipulated to pay the expenses of the renewal, nd make
an allowande to the patentee of $1,200 a year, during the renewed term, and
then declaring: "Now, L (Chaffee)4o hereby, in consideration of the premises,

and to place my patent so that in case of mydeath, or other accident or event, it
may entire to the benefit of Charles.Goodyear, and those who hold right to the
use of sald patent, under and in onnection with his licensee s, &c., nominate, constitute, and appoint, said William Judson my trustee and attorney irrevocable,
to hold said patent and have the control thereof, so as none shall have alicense
to use said patent or invention, &e., other than those who had a right when said
patent was extended, without the written consent of said Judson, &c.," -passed
the entire ownership in the patent, legal and equitable, to Judson, for the benefit
of Goodyear and those holding rights under him.
If this annuity was -not regularly paidd, the original patentee had no right to revoke the power of attorney, and assign the patent to another party. His right to
the a nuity rested in covenant, for a.breach of which he had an adequate remedy
at law.
Evidence tending to show that the agreement between the patentee and the attorney had been produced by the fraudulent representations of the latter, in respect
to transactions out ofwhich the agreement arose, ought not to have been received,
It being a sealed instrument.
In a court of law, between parties or privies, evidence of fraud is admissible only
wheie it goes to the question whether or not the instrument ever had any legal
existence. But it was especially proper to exclude it in this case, where the
agreement had been partly executed, and'rights of long standing had grown up
under it;

T.Hi case was brough&t up, by writ~of error, from the Cir_
cuit Court of the United States for -the distiict of Rhode
Island.
It was an action brought by Day against Harishorn and
Hayward, for the violation of a patent for the pre aration and
application of India-rubber to cloths,' granted to '. M. Chaffee
in1836, and renewed for seven years in 1850. Day claimed
under an assignnent of this patent from Ohaffee, on the 1st of
July, 1863.The de.fences taken by Hartshorn and Hayward
are stated in the opinion of the court, in which there is also a
succinct narrative of the whole case.

