130

SUPREME COURT.
Aeegan v. Boyle.

considered in connection with other evidence in the record.
But, we think, this writing is something more than an admission, and stands in a different light from an ordinary receipt.
The writing must be treated as the contract of dissolution, between the plaintiff and the society, of their mutual obligations
and engagements to each other. No evidence of prior decla.
rations or antecedent conduct is admissible to contradict or to
vary it.
It was prepared to preserve the remembrance of what the
parties had prescribed to themselves to do, and expresses their
intention in their own language; and that such was its object,
is corroborated by the fact that for three years there is no evidence of a contrary sentiment. Treating this writing as an instrument of evidence of this class, it is clear that the bill has
not made a case in which its validity can be impeached. To
enable the plaintiff to show that the rule of the leader, (Rapp,)
instead of being patriarchal, was austere, oppressive, or tyrannical; his discipline vexatious and cruel; his instructions fanatical, and, upon occasions, impious; his system repugnant to
public order, and the domestic happiness of its members; his
management of their revenues and estate rapacious, selfish, or
-dishonest; and that the condition of his subjects was servile,
ignorant, and degraded, so that iione of them were responsible
for their contracts or engagements to him, from a defect of
capacity and freedom, as has been attempted.by'him in the
testimony collected in this cause, it was a necessary prerequi-site that his bill should have been so framed as to exhibit such
aspects of the internal arrangements and social and religious
-economy of the association. This was not done; and for this
-cause the evidence cannot be considered. The authorities cited
from the decisions of this court are decisive. Very v. Very, 13
How., 361, 345; Patton v. Taylor, 7 How., 157; Crockett v.
Lee, 7 Wheat., 525.
Decree reversed. Bill dismissed.

JAM-s MEEGAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JEREMIAH

T.

BOYLE.

In Missouri, where a deed was offered in evidence, purporting to convey the tides
of married women to land, and their names were in the handwriting of other
persons, and there was no proof that the women had either signed or acknowl-.
edged the deed, it was properly refused by the court to be allowed to go to the

jury.
The property was paraphernal, and could not be conveyed away by their husbands.
The facts in the case were not sufficient to warrant the jury to presume the consent of the married, women.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

.•181

Heegan Y. .Boy'lt.
The Qriginal deed not being evidence, a certified' copy was not admissible.
An old will, which had never been proved according to law, was properly excluded
as evidence. Moreover, no claim was set up inder it, but, on the contrary, the
estate was treated as if the maker of it had died intestate.
Neither the deed nor the will come within the rule by which ancient instruments
are admitted. It only includes such documents as are valid upon their face.'
The statute of limitations did not begin to run until after the disability of covertare was removed.

Tars case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
Boyle, who was. a citizen of Kentucky, brouht an action of
ejectment against Meegan, to recover a lot within the _present
limits of the city of St. Louis, in Missouri, which was particularly described in .the declaration. There was no dispute about
location, and both parties claimed under the title of Francis
Moreau. The lot was recommended for confirmation by Recorder Bates, in 1815, and confirmed to Moreau's representatives (he being then dead) by the act of Congress passed on
the 29th of April, 1816.
Boyle alleged that a portion of the title remained in Moreau's
descendants until 1853i when it was levied upon undera judgment, and sold to him at a sheriff's sale. - On the other hand,
it was-the effort of Meegan -to show that these descendadts had
,parted with their title by deed, or that Moreau had willed away
the property a long time before the sheriff's sale: The portion of the title which Boyle claimed was the entire share of
Angelique, one of Moreau's daughters, who married Antbitie
Ma~lette, about 1804 or 1805; the shares of two of Moreau's
grand-daughters, being the' children ,ofhis daughter Helen,
who had married Pierre Cerr6, said grand-daughters having
married, one of them Pierre Willemin, and the other Felix
Pingal. Boyle also claimed the derivative share which these
persons wqre entitled to as the heirs of two of Moreau's chilarn, whose title was alleged to have remained vested in them
at their deaths, without issue. One of these deceased children
was Marie, who had married Collin.
The judgment under which Boyle claimed was recovered, in
1852, against Angelique Mallette, then a widow, (the daughter
of Moreau,) Pierre Willemin and Melanie Cerri, his * e, (a
of Moreau,) and Felix Pingal and Josephine
grand-daughter
Oerr6, his wife, (another grand-daughter of Moreau.)
•Upon the trial, Boyle offered in evidence the certifc~ate of
the re'order of land titles in Missouri, the survey, the confirmation, and the pedigree of Moreau's family, wit the dates of
the deaths which had taken p~lace. Ee then gave m evidence
ihe sheriff's deed to himse and proved that Meegan had been
in possession of the premises since 1839.

132

SUPREME COURT.
Meean v. Boye.

The line of defence was to show that the title had passed
out of Moreau's heirs to a person named Chouteau, and from
him to Mullanphy, who had been in possession since 1820.
For this purpose, apaper ws offered in evidence, purporting
to be a deed from Moreau's heirs-to Chouteau, dated September 3d, 1818. It had attached to it the names of three of the
daughters of Moreau, (amongst other signatures,) viz: -Marie
Collin, Angelique Moreau, and Ellen Morea,. It had also the
signatures of the husbands of the two last, viz: Antoine Mallette, the husband of Angeliju, and Pierre Cerr6, tbe husband of Ellen or Helen. Marie Collin's name was written;
the others made their marks. It was proved that her name
was in the handwriting of her husband, Louis Collin; the
names of Antoine Mfallette and Pierre Cerr6 were in the handwriting of Guyol, and that of Ellen Moreau, the wife of Pierre
Cerr6, was in the handwriting of Hawley. John O'Fallon testified that he became the executor- of Mullanphy in 1833, and
that this deed was received by him amongst the other titlepapers of Mullanphy. The defendant then offered to read the
I
deed in evidence.
To the admission of which the plaintiff objected, because
the deed was not signed or acknowledged by Marie Collin,
Angelique Mallette, and Helen Cerr6, under whom he claims,
and because there was no proof that it had been executed by
them under whom he claimed, and because thq deed did not
convey or pass the title of Mrs. Collin, Mallette, and Cerr6,
under whom he claims; which objections were sustained by
the court, and the same was not admitted "inevidence; to
which ruling of the court the defendant excepted.
The defendant was allowed to read in evidence a deed from
Chouteau and wife to Mullanphy, dated 80th October, 1819,
to which the plaintiff did not object,.because, if Chouteau had
no title, he could convey none to Mullanphy.
The defendant then offered a certified copy of the deed from
Moreau's. heirs to Chouteau, to the admission of which the
plaintiff objected, for the same reasons urged against the original deed. The objection was sustained, the copy excluded,
and the defendant excepted.
The defendant then offered a paper purporting to be the will
of Francis Moreau, executed on 2d qf August, 1798, before
sundry official persons, by which he made his son, Joseph Moreau, his universal legatee.
To the admission of which the plaintiff objected, because the
will had not been probated or proved in any lawful manner;
because the conditions were not proved to have been complied
with; because the Spanish law authorized no-such disposition

DECEMABER TER31, 1856.

8
1.88,

NBeegan v.-Boyle.

of pr.operty as therein made; and because there was evideno
before the court to show that the devised had not accepted the
estate under the will, but had renounced it, which objections
to the will were sustained by the court, and the will was not
admitted in evidence, to which ruling of the court the plaintiffs then and there excepted. At the same time the will was
offered, sundry deeds and documents were read in evidence,
the purport of which was to show that the estate of Francis
Moreau was treated,- after his death, as if he had died intestate.
The defendant theni prayed the court to give .the following
instructions to the jury:
1. If the jury find that Francis Moreau, in his lifetime, was
the owner of the lot in controversy, that he died prior to 1804;'
and that his two daughters, Mrs. Mallette and Mts. Cerr6, took
their husbands prior to 1804, then the several interests of said
daughters in said lot becAme, upon their marriage, and was
their paraphernal property.
2. If the jury find as mentioned in instruction' No. 1, and
further find that, in the year 1818, Mallette and Pierre Cerr6,
husbands of said daughters, made the deed read in evidence
by the defendants, then, under the evidence in this cause, the
jury may presume that said daughters gave the administration
of said paraphernal property to their husbands, and that the
-same was alienated with their consent.
8. If the jury find as mentioned in instruction No. 1, and
further find that the defendants -and those under whom they
claim have had open and *continued possession of the. lot in
question for thirty years and more before the bringing of this
suit, claiming to own the same, then the .laintiff cannot recover any interest in said lot, deiived by Mis. Mallette or Mrs.
Cerr6'from their said fathes
- If Mrs. Pingal was dead, leaving a child, at the time of the
sheriff's sale, under which plaintiffs claim, and during all the
"time of the coverture of said Mrs. Pingal , the lot~in controversy was in the possession of the defendants, and those under
whom they claim holding the same adversely to Mrs. Pingal
and her husband, and there never was any entry on the part
of the wife or husband, then the plaintiff derived no title to the
lot in controversy, under Mrs. Pingal.or her husband.
The court gave the instruction No. 1, and refused the others,
whereupon the defendant excepted.
The jury found the following verdict:
,"We find the defendant guiJt of the #espass and ejectment
complained of, as to two-fifthslundivided -of all the block of
land, part of the premises demanddd, lying in the city of St.

184

SUPREME COURT.
Hcegan v. Bc~iie

Lo.uis, bounded north by the north line of the Moreau arpent,
being survey No. 1,480; south by the south line of said survey,
1,480; east by Seventh street; west by Eighth street, excepting
only the two lots No. 7 in said block, as shown by the proceedings
in partition between the heirs of John Mullanphy, deceased; and
we assess the plaintiff's damages, sustained by the plaintiff by
the said trespass and ejectment at the sum of ten dollars, and
find the nionthly value thereof to be one dollar; and the defendant is not guilty as to the residue of the premises demanded."
The case was argued in this court by Mr. Geyer for the
plaintiff in error, and Mfr. Wliams and Hr. CHi endn for the
defendant.
M .Geyer made the following points:
The plaintiff ini error submits that the Circuit Court erred
in rejecting the documentary evidence offered by him at the
trial.
1. The instrument, purporting to be the deed of the heirs
of Moreau to Chouteau, dated 3d September, 1818, and that
offered as the act of Pierre Reaume and wife, dated 6th November, 1819, ought to have been admitted in evidence.
The execution of the last-mentioned deed was fully proved
by proof of the death of the subscribing witnesses and their
handwriting. (See Sarpy's evidence, p. 17.)
Both instruments were more than thirty years old at the
time of the trial, and proved themselves. The bare production
of them was sufficient to entitle them to be read as the deeds
of the parties whose acts they purport to 'be. (1 Greenl. Ev.,
sec. 21, p. 142.)
The presumption of the due execution of these instruments
is moreover corroborated by the facts and circumstances in
evidence at the trial: 1. It is proved that several of the parties
collected at St. Louis from other places, for the purpose of
making a conveyance of their interest in the land, at about
the time of the date of the first ihstrument, and afterwards
declared that they-had sold to Pierre Chouteau. 2. The existence of the deed soon after is established by the official certificates appended. 3. The title-of Chouteau, as derived from
the heirs of Moreau, is recited in his deed to Mullanphy,
executed, acknowledged, and recorded, in 1819. 4. Both the
instruni6nts rejected 'by the court were recorded in the proper
office, and were in the possession of Mullanphy, under whom
the defendant below claimed more than thirty years before the
trial. 5. Mullanphy, the grantee of Chouteam andthose claim-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

135

Meegan v. Boyle.

ing under him, have been in undisturbed possession of the
land, claiming under those deeds, more.than thirty years.
.6. All The parties grantors, except -Alexis and Joseph Moreau,
resided in the county of St. Louis, and no one of them ever
set up a claim to the land. -(See 1 Greenl. Ev., sec. 21, pp.
143, 144, 570, and cases there cited; Gray v. Gardner, 3 Mass.
R., p. 899; Coleman v. And., 10 Mass' R., p. 105; Spoler v.
Brown, 6 Binney, p. 435; Lee v. Tapscott, 2 Wash. R., 276;
Doe ex dem. Clinton v. Phelps, 9 Johns., p. 169; Same v.
Campbell, 10 do., p. 475; Newman v. Studley, 5 Mo. R.,
p. 291.)
If the antiquity of the instrument, together with the facts
and circumstances disclosed at the trial, were not absolutely
conclusive of their due execution, they at least afford a fair
and reasonable presumption of that fact, and ought to have
been referred to the consideration of the jury, to whom alone
it belonged to determine upon the precise force and effect of
the circumstances proved, and whether they were sufficiently
satisfactory and convincing to warrant them in finding the
fact. (1 Phillips Ev., p. 437.)
The fact, if it had been found by a jury, or admitted, that
the deed of 3d September, 1818, was "not signed or acknowledged by Marie Collin, Angelique Mallette, and Helen Cerr6,
and had not been executed by any person under whom the
plaintiff claims," would not authorize the rejection of the deed:
it being admitted, and very fully proved, that it was duly
executed by other parties. having title as tenants in common. in
the land,
The plaintiff exhibited no c6nveyance or other eVidence of
title from Marie Collin; and, if her iiterest was not conveyed
by the deed of 1818, it passed on her death (she having died
without issue) to her brothers and sisters, and their descendants. Nor does he derive title under Angelique Mallette, or
Helen Cerre, by any act of theirs, or of their representatives.
His claim is founded on a sheriff's sale on execution (without
any judgment produced) against Angelique Mallette, Pierre
Willemin, and Malanie Cerre, his wife, Felix Pingal, and
.osephine Cerr hi wife, by her guardian, which Malanie and
Josephine are two of three surviving children of H9len Cerr6.
The latter, Josephine,was probably dead at the time of the sale,
and, if living, an infant. At most, the plaintiff could claim
only one share and two-thirds of another. And it was competent for the defendant to give in evidence conveyances frpm
the other parties in interest.
The deed of 3d September, 1818, wasa-uly acknowledged by
Joseph Ortiz, and Eleanor, his wife, Joseph Minard, Auroria,

186

SUPREME COURT.,
_H4-a

-. Boyk-e

his wife, and the execution of it was proved at the trial by
proof of the handwriting of.Thomas R. Musick, in whose
presence it was signed andacknowledged. The execution of
the deed of Reaume and wife is proved beyond controversy.
Joseph Mfinard, Eleanor Ortiz, and Marceline Reaume, are the
children and heirs of Marie Louise Minard, deceased, who was
a daughter of Francis Moreau, and wife of Joseph Minard,
deceased.
The execution of the same deed by Alexis Moreau, and by
Joseph Moreau, is established by the evidence of Osille Andre,
the widow of Alexis Moreau, and by the declarations of both
Alexis and Joseph, in the presence of other witnesses.
But it is sufiicieut, if the deed was executed by any due of
those havin- title under Francis Moreau, to entitle the defendant to read it in evidence. If admitted, the plaintiff could not
have recovered, there being no proof of an actual ouster, or
any act equivalent. (Rev. Code of Mo., 1845, Tit. Ejectment,
6. 11.)
2. The will of Francis Moreau, being one of the archives of
the Spanish Government deposited in the office of the recorder
of St. Louis county, and therein recorded and duly certified,
was competent evidence by the statute law of Missouri. (Rev.
Code, 1845, Tit. Evidence, s. 12.)
This document is what is called an open testament, being
dictated viva voce. It was made before the commandant in lieu
of a notary, in the presence of a sufficient number of witnesses,
and afterwards deposited and preserved among the archives of
the Government, and needed'no probate to give it effect.
(Partidas, L. 3, T. 1, b. 6; .Novis'a Recop., L. 1, T. 18, b. 10;
Schmidt's Civil Law, Tit. 7, chapter 5.)
In Upper Louisiana, the commandants of the posts, or some
one designated by the Lieutenant Governor, were substituted
for the notaries, and their acts have always been regarded as
notarial acts, and of the same effect. (See McIsare v. Hunt, 5
Mo. R., 300.)
The will contains no condition precedent to the operation of
the clause by which Joseph Moreau is instituted universal heir,
and if it did, proof of performance would not be a necessary
preliminary to the admission of the document in evidence.
The will is not void on account of the institution of a universal
heir-the effect is only to give to him that portion of the estate
disposable by testamentary donation, which in this case is one-:
third; the residue will pass to the heirs ab intestato. The
acceptance of the donation by the instituted heir is not more
necessary than the acceptance of. the succession by the legal
heirs--in either case, it may be express or implied-and when,

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

187.

eqan v. Boye.

material, is a question of fact for the jury. (Schmidt's Civil
Law, Tit. 7, ch. -, art. -1059; chap. 8, art. 1177, Tit. 8. c. 5;
Novis. Recop., L. 1, T. 18, b.-10; 18th Law of Toro.; Partidas,
L. 11, 18, 15, Tit. 6, b. 6.)
The following points are taken from the brief of Mr. Williams,
cotinsel for defendant in error:
It was conceded at the trial, that the property vested in the
daughters in this Way -was paraphernal,according to the code
of laws lately prevailing here. "A succession accruing to the
wife during marriage is her paraphernal property, which she
may administer without the authorization, consent, 'or interference, of her husband." (Flower v. O'Oonner, 8 0artin, n.
s8., 556; Savenat.et al v. Le Breton, 1 Lousi. R., p. 520.) This
species of property could not be sold by the husband without
the consdnt of the wife. (O'Conner v. Barre, 8 Martin, Loue.
., ,455.) The property a woman inherits during marriage is
paraphernal. (Allen v. Allen, 6 Rob. R., 104.) The woman is
accustomed to bring,,besides her portion, (dot,) other property,
which is called paraphernalf,and which is; or are, the property
and things, whether (muebles) personal or (r~eles) real, which
wives retain for their separate use. From this definitioil, it
follows: 1. That if the wife gives to the husband this property,
with the intention that he may. have the dominion. (senorio)
of it, he shall possess it during marriage; and if she should not
do this expressly in writing, 'the. dominion of such property
shall always be in the wife. (1 'White's New Recopilacion,. p.
56.) On same page, ote 38, it is said that Palacios questions
the necessity of a writing, but says it must appear that the wife
mae a gift to her husband, with the intention of giving him
dominion over it.
2. The suppcsed deed of Angelique Mallette, Marie Collin,
and Helen Oerre, was. properly excluded from the jury as a
conveyance of their property.
1. The supposed deed was not valid under the Spanish law,
as to Marie Collin, because her husband did not execute.it.
. 2. It was not valid as to either of the women, because it
does not appear that either of them ever signed, it or assented
to it, .nor that either of them ever kiew of its existence in the
life of her husband; nor does it appear that either of them
ever gave her husband the property or power to sell it.
8.: That the supposed deed was not valid under the common
law, which was introduced into the Territory*January 19,1816,
is too obvious for comment. (1 Ter. Laws Missouri, p. 486.) :
4. The facts in evidence did not authorize any'presumption
of the execution of the instrument by the married women. It

138

SUPREME COURT.
leegan v. Boyle.

was insisted at the trial, that the supposed deed should be admitted, that it might be submitted to the jury, whether, under
all the evidence 'iA the dause, they would not presume a conveyance by them to the parties in possession. The position on
the other side was this: That if the husband conveys the wife's
lands, and possessioia is taken under the conveyance, and is
continued for thirty years, and is open and notorious, and then
the ,husband dies, any subsequent claim by the wife is overturned by the presumption of fact arising on these circumstances, that she has conveyed the property. To our minds
this is a monstrous proposition. The discussion of it is undertaken with the apology, that it was pressed with a great deal
of zeal at the trial, and is, perhaps, to constitute the principal
pqint in the cause in this court: Nothing is more intelligible
than the principle on which a conveyance is presumed. Itis
well stated, as follows: "The rational ground for presumption
is, when the conduct of the party out of possession cannot be
accounted for without supposing that the estate has been
conveyed to the party in possession;" (Kingston v. Lesly, 10
S. and R., 391.) "It is founded on the consideration, that the
facts and circumstances are such as could not, according to the
ordinary course of human affairs, occur without presuming a
transfer of title, or an admission of an existing adverse title
in the party in possession." (Jackson v. Porter, Paine R., 489.)
"The presumption may always be rebutted by showing that
the possession held or privilege exercised was perfectly consistent with the right or interest of the party who afterwards
sets up the adverse claim." (Daniel v. North, 11 East R., 372.)
"And this presumption in favor of a grant, and against written evidence of title, can never arise from mere neglect-of the
owner td"assert his rights where there has been no adverse
title or enjoyment by those in whose favor the conveyance is
to be presumed." (Schauber v. Jackson, 2 Wend., 87; Doe v.
Butler, 3 Wend., 158; Lynde v. Dennison, 3 Conn., 896; Ricord v. Williams, 7 Wheaton, 109; Roberts on Frauds, .p. 67,
note.) "As godn as it appears that during the time in which
it is presumed the party would have asserted his right, if he
had one, that party was under a legal disability, which prevented or excused it, there is an end of the presumption." It
may be necessary, in Ihis, case, to quote an authority, that when
one has had no power to do an act, no presumption can arise
that he did it. (Martin v. State of Tenn., 10 Humph., 157.)
Now, what was the condition of the persons here against
whom presumptions are supposed to arise? Marie Collin was
married in 1805, and so remained till March 22, 1840. Angelique Mallette was a married woman from 1804 till April 19,.

DECEMBER TERM,

1856.

189

. rfan v. .Boye.

1844. Helen Cerr6 was married at the date of the supposed
deed and so remained till 1888. The common law was introduced into the Territory of Missouri, January 19,1816, (1 Ter.
Laws Mo., 486,) and placed these women under all the disabilities belonging to that code- When their property was sold
by their husbands, there was no possible mode in which they
could interpose a legal objection. No remedy known to the
law was within their reach, to redress the wrong done; their
silence, then, is perfectly consistent with their rights. They
seemed to acquiesce in the possession, because they could not
help it. They could not sue; and reason would seem to indicate that in such case they should be excused for not suing.
But just the reverse is the argument of the plaintiff in this
court.. He contends that the same law which put- it out of
their power to sue, at the same moment declared that if they
did not sue, it must be presumed that they had surrendered
their titles. "Why," said the adversary at the trial, "suppose
they had sued, and their suits beehi dismissed, still they would
have asserted their claim! " Such is the doctrine supposed to
belong to the common law, which some are pleyfed to consider
the perfection of reason. It requires what it forbids. It punishes, by nothing less than forfeiture, the not ding what - it
prQvides shl not be done. But this singular view is supposed
to be supported by books. The plaintr' in error claims that
it has been so dcid in Melvin v.. Proprietors of Locks and
Canals on the *Merrimack River, 16 Pick, p. 140. The case
is this: Joana Flether, by her father's will, became in 1771
tenant in common of an undivided half ofthe premises in suit,
and was in peaceful- possession ' her marriage to'Benjamin
Melvini in February, 1777, when her husband in her right
went into possession. In 1782, Melvin, the husband, conveyed
the premises to Chambers, by a deed which, though signed by
Joana, did not pass her title. The possession was taken; under the conveyance, and held peaceably by Chambers and those
claiming under him, making valuable improvements, till after
the year 1832, when one of Joana's sons brought suit, she having resided with hei husband near the land, making no claim
up to-her death in 1826, and the husband making no claim up
to his death in 1830. The court held there was no acquescence on the part of Melvin and wife, or of their children, in
Chambers's possession, for they had no right to interfere.
They could not object to his erecting buildings. He was authorized to occupy the land according to his pleasure, therefore
there was but slight ground to presume a subsequent grant from
Melvin and wife, and that the instruction to thejury was correct.
Now the instruction was, (see it, p. 137-'8,) that Chambers's

140

SUPREME COURT.
Meegan v.

oyke

holding.under Melvin, sen., in right of his wife, was valid and
legal during the husband's life, and no presumptio arose thereon against the plaintiff. Is it not then something singular that
the court should discover still a sliqht groUnd of presumption?
But so far there is nothing of moment in the case. The court
proceeds, however, and in brief, p. 140, ascertains that the facts
contain eVidence of a conveyance from Joana to her husband
prior to her marriage! It must be observed that Joana was in
possession of the property as her own from the commencement
of her title till her marriage. It was then passed out of her
possession by the act of marriage, and though no presumptions
could arise against her while married, for she could make no objections, yet, in the opinion of the court, it must be submitted
to a jury, to gay if they would not presume a conveyance by
her, previous to her marriage to herhusband! The course of
the opinion was such as to indicate a predetermined purpose
of the court to rob the plaintiff of his lands. And that purpose was carried out in 17 Pick., 259, when the case was again
before the court. Facts which transpired after the marnage
were allowed to go to the jury as evidence of a grant prior to
the marriage !
It is welf, perhaps, that there is one case on record in which
an intelligent court has been found to set down, in a deliberate
opinion, the absurdities of the doctrine contended for by the
plaintiff.
In the case of Weatherhead's Lessee v. Boskerville, 11 How-.
ard, 829, the subject was thoroughly discussed, and settled by
an opinion. of this court, in which a rule is laid down with rea-.
son and justice. The court say: ': The rule in such case is,
that when a person is under a legal incapacity to litigate a
right in a court of justice, and there has been no relinquishment of it by contract, a release of it cannot be presumed from
circumstances over which the person has had no control, hap-pening before the incapacity to sue has been removed." A
married woman "cannot sue without the assent and association
of her husband, for any property which she owns, or to which
she may become entitled in any of the ways in which that may
occur." "For this cause it is, the statute of limitations does
not run against her during coverture.", She is presumed to
under the coercion of her husband."
"Iact
'When
there is a statute of limitation applicable to the case,
presumptions are never permitted. "For to presume a grant
in a case where the title would otherwise be protected by the
statute, would be a plain evaion of the statute."' (Cowen,and
Hill's Notes, p. 856-'7, note 311.)
' 8. It has been supposed that, in Missouri, the law in force at

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

141

.teegan r. Boyle.

the dissolution of the marriage by death, fixes the marital
rights dependent on that event, and not the law which was in
force at the time of the marriage. (Riddick v. Walsh, 15 Mo.
R., 587-'8.)
This case, it is said, is broad enough to gve to the husband
a tenancy, by curtesy, in lands vested in the wife prior to the
statute of Missouri, July, 1807, (1 Ter. Laws, 131, see. 16,)
which introduced that tenure amongst us. If this be the force
of the case of Riddick v. Walsh, then the husbands of Madame
Cerr6 and Madame Mallette, by virtue of the act July, 1807; the
prior marriage and issue born, became tenants 1 y curtesy,
which was a particular estate for life in the husbands. (Reaume
vv. Chambers, 21 Mo., see Appendix; Alexander v. Warrance,
17 Mo. R., 229.)
The introduction of the common law in 1816, (1 Ter. Laws,
486,) though it did not give tenancy by curtesy to Madame
Collin's husband, she never.having had issue, did nevertheless, upon the above view of Riddick v. Walsh, give him an
estate of frbehold in the lands of his wife, determinable with
her life. (2 Kent. Com., 130.)
If this yiew is correct, then the deed of 'Antoine Mallette and
Pierre Cerr6 passed to Chouteau their life estates as tenants by
the curtesy. And there was also outstanding in Louis Collin,
during the whole of his life, a freehold estate, which was interposed between his wife and any claim by her to the land in
controversy.
When the .plainti4 therefore, establishes that the.husbands
of Madame. Cerr6 and Madame Mallette" became enants by
curtesy,.by force of the act of July, 1807, and that Louis Collin
took a freehold byforce of the common law introduced in
1816, he shows that the women in question -had no title to the
property in dispute while the husbands were living, and consequently that their causes of action did not accrue to'them till
they were respectively discovert..
Ken, there is no possible ground uppn which any presumption can rest. They had really no interest in the propervty
nothing to convey-"nothing which the presumption of a c6ncan areach.
veyance
. -Neither
descent, cast, nor the statute of limitations, will
afect a right, if a particular estate existed at the time of the
disseisin, or when the adverse possession began, because a
right of entry in the remainder-man cannot exist during the
existenc of the particular estate, and the laches of tenant for
life will not affect the party entitled after him." (Jackson v.
Schonemaker, 4 J. R., 402; Jackson v. Johnson, 5 Cowen,
75, 103.) "At common law, the alienation of husband seized

142

SUPREME COURT.
Haegan v. .Boyk.

in right of the wife, discontinued the wife's estate." But by
statute, 32 Henry 8, adopted in Missouri, (1 Ter. Laws, 436,)
the contrary was provided. Since that statute, the husband's
deed passes his own right, and the wife's stands intact as a
reveision or remainder, so that her interest ceases during the
coverture, and springs up again on its determination. (Jackson
v. Sears, J. R., 435; Jackson v. Stearnes, 16 J. R., 110; Jackson
v. Carnes, 20 J. R., 803; Miller v. Shackleford, 3 Dana, 289; S.
C., 4 Dana, 278; Memmonv. Coldwell, 8 B. Mon., 83; Gill et al.
v. Fauntleroy, Ib., 177; Gregory v. Ford, 5B.Mon., 471; Martin v.Woods, 9 Mass., 360; Heath and Wife v. White, 5 Conn.,
228; Jackson v. Swartout, 5 Cowen, 96; 1 Hilliard R. Est., 555.
4. The statute of limitations is no defence to this action.
As early as December 17, 1818, the Territorial Legislature
passed an act for limiting real actions, and it has been in force
ever since. This act 'abolished all the rules of prescription
known to the Spanish law, and substituted in lieu thereof its
own period of twenty years after action accrued, and in case
of disability by coverture, twenty years after disability removed.
(1 Ter. Laws, 598; Landes v. Perkins, 12 Mo. R., 257; Youse
v. Norcum, 12 Mo. R., 549; Biddle v.Mellon, 13 Mo. R., 335;
Blair v. Smith, 16 Mo. R., 277; Jackson v. Cairnes, 20 J. R.,
301; Jacksofi v. Selleck, 8 J. R., 262; Rev'd Stat. Mo., 1835,
p. 392, art. 1, sec. 1, also sec. 4; Ib., 393, art 3, sec. 11; Reaume
v. Chambers, Appendix.)
It would seem to be very plain, that whether the cause of
action accrued to the women in 1820, when Mullanphy took
possession of the premises, or at the moment when the life
estates respectively of the husbands terminated, not one of
their titles is cut off by the statute of limitations. In either
case, the period of limitation would not be less than twenty
years. If the cause of action accrued in 1820, the eleventh
section of the third article of the "Act prescribing the time for
commencing actions," approved March 16, 1835, (Rev'd Code,
1835, p. 396,) exempts their case from the operation of that act;
and then, by the statute of 1818, (1 Ter. Lawsj 598, and Rev'd.
Code of 1825, sec. 3, p. 511,) twenty years is allowed wherein
to sue after discoverture.
And if the cause of action accrued at the terinination of the
-life estate of, the husbands, tfien, by all the statutes ever in
force in Missouri, twenty years at least would be given wherein
to.sue.
It has always been held by our courts, that the enactment
of the statute of limitations of 1818, and the introduction of
the common la*v in 1816, not only abolished the rules of
prescription under the Spanish law, but annulled the power

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

148

Hev=a v- .Boyle.

of matried women and infahts to bring-any action while under
disability..(Landes
-v Perkins, 12 Mo. R., 257; Youse v.
Worcum,
12 Mo. R.,'549.),
4. Felix Pingal was entitled as tenant by the courtesy to his
wife's lands, although neither the husband nor the wife was
actually seized during the coverture. (4 Kent's Com., 29, 30;
1 Hilliard R. Est., 111; Reaume v. Chambers, Appendix.)
5. .When a large amount. of property is in controversy,
desperate meats are sometimes resorted to, for the purpose of
holding possession. Such id -the attempt to iet up, in bar of
.this suit, the pretended will of Francis MTloreau.
The Spanish. law required a will to be produced before the
judge, and proved by the attesting witnesses, within one month
ater the testator's death. The witnesses having been examined, the will was "ordered to be protocoled (recorded.) (1
White's Recopilacion, 111; 2 Moreau and Carleton's Par'tidas,
975, '976, 977.) Francis Moreau had no right to give all his
property to one child. He. could not disinherit a child 'without
cause, nor without naing-expressl the child, and the reason
of the disinherison. (2 Moreau and Carleton's Partidas, 1031,
1032, 1033; 1 White's Recopilacion, 107:) To entitle an heir
to the benefit of a devise, it was necessary he.should have
performed the conditions annexed to it. (2 Moreau and Carletoh Partidas, 997, and followifig; 1 'White's Recopilacion, 108.)
,And it was also necessary he should appear before the judge,
'and plainly accept or reject the devise. (1 White's Recopilacioni 11, 127.) But this will, if it was ever seen by Francis
Moreau, was never produced to any judge after his decease--never
shown to the pretended. witnesses-never proved--never recordednever accepted by the heir, in the manner required by law.
And Joseph Moreau, who is made by it universal heir, never

performed any of the conditions which it imposed upon him.
Joseph did, after hs father's death, make dlaim to the successio ,
andfor .this he was imprisoned by the Ieutenant Governor.
It is most probable, therefore, that the pretended will was a
forgery.
It is certain that Joseph Moreau, after his release from
prison, acte,d towards the property of the estate, and towards
his b'rothers 'and gisters, as if his father had died intestate, and
the estate was settled and distributed'as an intestate's estate.
If the pretended will had been legally established, Joseph was
estopped by his.own acts against setting it up.

Mr. Yustiee Mc'LEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error bfings before us the judgment-of the Circuit Court for the district of Missouri.-

144

SUPREME COURT.
J1e&an v. Boy.

Boyle brought an action of trespass and ejeetment in the
Circuit Court for a common-field lot, in what was formerly
known as the Big Prairie, of. St. Louis, containing one arpent
in front, on Broadway, in the city aforesaid, by the depth of
forty arpens, runniii. westwardly, being the same lot of land'
granted by the Spanish Government to Moreau, and confirmed to his representatives by the United States, and known as
survey 1,480.
The defendant pleaded not guilty. A verdict of guilty was
found against him for an undivided two-fifths of the land described.
.
grant of the land claimed under the Spanish Government
was proved t6 have been made to Francis Moreau, who occupied the land some time before his death, which took place in.
1802. He left seven children sbrviving him-three sons and
four daughters. His sons were named Joseph,, Alexis, and
Louis; his daughters, Manette, widow of one Cadeau, and afterwards wife of Louis Collin; Marie Louise, wife of Joseph
Menard; Helen, who' afterwards intermarried with Pierre
Cerr6; and Apgelique, who intermarried.,with N'otaine Mallette.
The plaintiff gave in evidence a sheriff's, deed, .dated the
24th of February, 1853, which recites a judgment in favor of
David Clary and Willim Waddingham, against Amgeliue'
Mallette, Pierre Willemnn, and Melanie Cerr6, his wife, Fei
Pingal and. Josephine CerrY, his -wife, by her guardian, for
$455.31, on which an execution was issued, and evied on thedefendant's land, desiguated-as survey 1,480, and the same was
sold the 19th of February, 1853, to the plaintiff Boyle, to whom
the above deed was 'given, which, purports to cofrvey all the
right and interest of the defendants.
* The plaintiff proved, that defendant had been in possession
of the premises since 1839.
On the.part of the defendant it was proved that; in the summer of 1820, John Mullanphy built a small brick house, which
stands partly on the prerhises su6d fof, and partly on one of
the common-field lots confirmed to Vien. Soon after the house
was built, Mullanphy fenced three or four acres of ground including the house. In 1822 or 1823, he' enclosed: fifteen or
twer ty acres, and in 1835 or 1836,. John .O'Fallon, the executor
of Mullanphy, induced Waddingham to- enclose all the land
claimed by the estate of Mullanphy in that neighborhood,
which included the land sued for. - The house and enclosures
were rented to different persons from time to time, and were
occupied with occasional intervals, sometimes of several months,
In 1846 or 1847i 'Waddingham's fence fell down, and the tract

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

145

AIeegan v. Boye.

lay vacant and unienclosed for a year or two, when portions of
it were enclosed by the heirs of Mullanphy..
At the trial, a paper was offered, in evidence, purporting to
be the deed of Joseph Moreau- and others, heirs of Francis
Moreau,'deceased, dated the 3d of, September, 1818, ponveying to Pierre Chouteau all their estate and:interest in the tat
.ofiand in the declaration described. A certificate of Thomas
R. Musick a justice' of the jeace, certifying that Joseph Menard and wife, Joseph Ortiz-and his wife, signed the instrument,
'and acknowledged it to be their deed. There was also offered
an iinstrument.pnrporting to be a deed of Pierre Reauie and
-Marceline, his wife, and of Joseph Menard and Marie Louise
Moreau, dated- 6thlNovember, 1819j conveying toPierre Chouteau their interest in the land conveyed by their co-heirs, by
the foregoi g deed.-. Also,'there was offered a certificate of
Raphael Widen, notary public, of the acknowledgment of this
intrument, the 6th November, 1819; and also a certificate'that
both the instruments were reborded 6th June, 1822.
It was proved that the' above' papers, after the death of John
Mullanphy, came into the possession of John O'Fallon, having
been found amdng the papers of theideceased.
The signatures to the first instrument were affixed by marks,
the names being in the handwriting qf -F. M. Guyol and
others.
. Certain persons swore that they heard several of the heirs
say they had sold their land to Piezre Chouteau. That Josepli
Morean 'lived -in
Louisiana in a destitute condition, where he
died; and that Jie was never heard 'to claim any land in St.
Louis, and, in fact, that he said he had sold his land in Mi!..
souri.
*Pieie Chouteau and wife, on the 80th .October,.oi819, coitveyed the tract in controversy to John Mullanphy by deed;
which was duly acknowledged and recorded.
On the above evidence, the two deeds in'181-8 and 1819
were offered in evidence, to which the plaintiff objected, "be.
cause the first deed'was not signed' or acknowledged by Marie
Collin, Afigelique Mallette, 'and Helen Cerr6, under whom
he claims, and -thatit did not con~vey any title of the fbmes
coiveit."
,The defendant then offered in evidence a copy of the will of
Frangois Moreau, certified by S. D. Barlow, recorder, to. have
been'taken from among the archives of the :rench and Span-:
ish Governments, deposited in his office, and-filed for re pord
on the 17th August, 1846, being archive 2,257., If the recorder had power to .certify as to thb deposit of the will, it does
not appear by whom it Was made, nor at what time.
VOL. xIX."

" 10"

SUPREME COURT.
Hagean v. iBoyle.

This instrument states, that in the year 1798, on the 2d August, we, Louis Collin, in default of -a notary, went to the
home of St. Francis Dunegant, captain commandant of St.
Ferdinand, of Florisant, as sisted by Antoine Rivierre and five
others named; where St. Frangois Moreau went with Joseph
Moreau at my residence; the said Francis Dunegant and the
said'Frangois Moreau declared and requested to make lis last
will, which he pronounoed to us in a loud and intelligible
voice, as follows, &c.: "Among other provisions, the testator
names his son Joseph universal legatee, and afterwards declares it is with the reserve, that he shall reimburse to each of
his brothers and sisters $27 silver out of the estate of their deceased mother, and it is declared that Joseph Moreau obliges
himself to furnish certain articles'annually to his father duringhis life." The testimoneum is as follows: 'Done and passed at
St. Ferdindnd, in Florisant, the day and year aforesaid, and
signed (after being read) before Don Francis Dunegant, captain commanding, and the aforesaid witnesses; the said Francis Moreau made his ordinary mark, &c:
At the time of offering the will, the following deeds and
4do6umeints were read in evidence, as bearing upon said will,
and its admissibility in evidence: a deed dated 2d April, 1818,
from Joseph Moreau and others, for alot on Third street, town
of St. Louis. In the Aieed it is stated that Joseph Menard,
Moreau,
Aurora, the wife of Joseph Hortiz, are children of-alias Menard, deceased. Also, the inventory and account of
sales of the estate, of Francis Moreau, the inventory of the
community property of Francis Moreau and wife, under the
direction of Francis Dunegant, commandant, &c.
On the foregoing testimony the defendant moved the court
to instruct the jury as follows :
1. If the jury find that Francis Moreau, in his lifetime, was
the owner of the lot in controversy; that he died prior to 1804,
and that his two daughters, Mrs. Mallette and Mrs. Cerr6, took
their husbands prior to 1804, then the several interests of said
daughters in said lot became upon their marriage, and was
thdir paraphernal property.
2. If the jary find, as mentioned in instruction :No. 1, and
further find, that in the year 1818, Mallette and Pierre Cerre,
husbands of said daughters, made the deed read in evidence
by the defendants, then, under the evidence in this cause, the
jury may presume that said daughters gave the administration
of said paraphernal property to their husbands, and that the
same was alienated with their consent.
& If the jury find, as mentioned in instruction N o. 1, and
further find that defendants, and those under whom. they

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

147

Hegan v. Boy

claim, have.had open and continued possession of the' lot in
question for thirty years and more, before the beginning of this
suit, claiming to own thi same,' then the plaintiff cannot recover any interest in said lot, derived by Mrs. Mallette or Mrq.
*Cerr6 from their said ather.
4. If Mrs. Pingal was dead,.leaving a child, at the time of
the sheriff's sale, under which plaintiff clains, and during
all the time of the coverture of said Mrs. Pingal the lbt in
eontroversy. was in possession of'defendauts,'and those under
whom' they claim, holding the same adversely to' Mrs. Pingal
and her hnusband, and there never was any entry upon the part
of the wife or husband, then the plaintiff derived no title to
in controversy.
under Mrs. Pingal or her husband..
the
lot court
. Thd
gave the first
instruction, and refused the otheis,
to which reffisal -exception whs taken.
It is argued that tlie deed of the heirs of Moreau tdChou*teau, dated Septemlier 8,,1818, and that offered as the ac of
Pierre-Reaume and wife, dated -6th November,. 1819, ought to
have been admitted.in evidence; that the execution of thb
last-mentioned deed was fully proved by proof of the death of
the subscribing witnesses and their handwritin
"Some of the grantors in this deed acknowle ged .thd execution of it before Thomas R Musick, ajustice of the peace, but
there was no proof that Ankblique-or Helen CeirT, or'-Marie
Collin, had signed or 'aeknowleded the deed, and these were
the heirs under which the plaintiff claims. It was proved by
Colonel O'Fallon, that he was the bxecutor of John Mullanphy, and th.at in'1888 he received from the on of the deceased
the
o6f the estate,
among which
the proved
above original tite-papers
deed, with certain
endgrsements.
Andw~s
it was
thtt
the deed was in 'the hanwring of Guyol, a justice of the
peace;ith whose handwriinghe was well"acquainted. It was
also proved that the sign a~turesAntoine'Mallete, Pierre Cerr6
and Joseph Moreau, were in the handwriting of Guyol, ana
that of .arie Con 'in the handwriting of her husband, Louis
Collin; the signature, Ellen ]oreau, tie -wife of Pierre Cerr,:
is in, the handwriting of Hawley. Guyol, the witnes6 states,
was a man of good character. There was some proof that
Pierre Cerr6 hnd Antoine Mallette, after the date of said pa;per, stated often that they had sold their land to'Pierre Chouteau, sen.; 'but there appears to be no proof that Angelique
Mallett6, or Helen Cerr, or Marie Coflin, had ever stated
or admitted that they had parted with their interest in the
land.

.

One of the defendant's witnesses stated that Joseph Moreau
*said, that, after the decese, of his father- he set up a claim to

148

SUPREME COURT.
.Aregan v. Boyle.

the succession, and that he was imprisoned for doing so, and
that Pierre Chouteau had him released. Some evidende was
given as to the deed havin' been deposited in the recorder's
office for record, and an endorsement that it was to be handed
to Mullanphy.
The common law was adopted in the Missouri Territory in
1816, and consequently it governs all subsequent legal transactions.

The children of Moreau, being seven at thQ time of his
decease, were reduced, by the death of Louis, intestate, and
Marie, who also died intestate, to five. And it seems that'the
Ilaintiff derived his title from two of the surviving daughters,
Angelique and Helen, and their heirs; he therefore claims underouis, Marie, Helen, and Angelique. It seems not to be
contested that the property vested in the daughters, under the
civil law, vas paraphernal. A succession accruing to the wife
during marriage is her paraphernal property, which she may
administer without the consent or control of her husband.
(O'Conner v. Barre, 3 Martin Lou. Rep:, 455.). The wife ma
gve the control of this property, in writing, to'her husband.
tWhite's New Recopilacion, 56, note 38.)"
The Circuit Court coinmitted no error in excluding from
the jury the above deed. The execution of it,. by the parties
under whom the plaintiff claims, is not proved, nor do the
facts- relied on, from which a presumption is attempted to be
drawn in favor of its validity, authorize such presumption.
The femes covert were under disabilities. They could only
divest themselves of their rights in the mode specially authorized.. Their husbands had no power, wihout their concurrence and action, to convey their real estate.
The defendant offered to read a.certified copy of the deed,
to show its condition at the time it was recorded, but the court
refused to permit such copy to be read. If the original deed
was not evidence, it is difficult to perceive for what legal purpose a recorded copy of it could be read.. There was no error
in' this ruling by the court.
There was no evidence that the will had been proved, or
that the conditions stated in it had been complied with.
A deed dated 2d'April, 1813, from Joseph Moreau and his
brothers and-sisters, conveying to Hempstead and Farrar a lot
which would have passed by the supposed will to Joseph
Moreau, had it been operative. Also, there was shown- a sale
bill of the personal property of the estate on the 19th ef April,
1803, Joseph Moreau being present, and that he puichased a
part of the property devised to him by the will.
Also, it.was shown that an administrator was duly appointed

DECFMER TERM, 1856.
Herw-

149

v. _Voy_.

on the estate' of Francis Moreau, and his estate was administered in the same manner as if he had died intestate. By the Spanish law, a will was required to be proved by the
attesting witnesses within one month after the decease of the
testator; and, when proved, it is required to'be recorded. (1
-White's Recopilacion, 111; .2 Moreau and Carleton's Partidas,
97'6-'7.) The testator cannot disinherit a child without
naming the child, and the reaons for doing so. (1 White's

PRe.,. 107.). No heir can claim a devise, 'without performing
the condition annexed to it. (1 White's R~e., 103.y It is
require& that he shall appear before the judge, and either
accept or reject the devise.. (1 WVhite's Re., 111, 127.) 1{one
of these re uisites were performed l~y Jsph Moreau, who
was made, by the will, universal heir;
If the will was a genuine instrument, and Joseph was the
universal heir, it could not have remained dormant, it would
"seem,for fifty years, r in the archives, without being brought
to the light, and having oil. it some judicial action. But
whether it b a ger~uine instrument or not, it has not been
treated as valid, as no claim has 'been set up. under it, and all
the heirs have acted, in regard to the estate of their father,. as

though he had died .intestate.

1Nether the deed to Ohoutea, nor the will, can be admitted
in evidence, without proof; as .an ancient instrument. The
rule embraces no instrument wich is"not valid uponi its face,
and which does not contain every essential requiremaent of the
law under which it was made. Neither the deed nor the wil4
comes within the rule, and we think the court very properly
ntutos
hc
xluded them both from the jury.fut
hc
In regard to the second, thu, n orhistutos
the court refu~ed to give to thib.jury, there was no error.
SAs early as December 17, 1 !18, the Territorial Le~islatu~e
passed an act limiting real actions, which remains in force.
The act .abolished all the rules of prescription under the Spanish
law, and substituted a limitation of. t~venty years after action
accrued, and, in case of disability by overture, twenty years
'after it ceased. In 1820, it appears MYullanphy took possession
of a part. of' the' premises in controversy, and from that time
retained possessions Some of the husbands had a life estate
in the lands; but whether this was so or not is immaterial, as
there is no bar to the claimn of the plaintiff lby the statute of
limitations.
By an act ".pre~eribAng the time for commencing actions,"
approved M[arch 10, 1885, '( Rvised Code, 896,) it is' declared,
in the 11th section, that "the provisions of this act shall not
apply to. ay action commenced, nor to aniy cause where the

150

SUPREME COURT.
Post et al. v.r.T"

d al.

ri ht of action or entry shall have accrued, before the tine
when this act takes effect, but the same shall remain subject
to the laws now in force."
It will be observed, that the limitation act of 1818, being still
in force, cannot operate on any of the femes'covert of whom
the plaintiff claims. It did not begin to run against them
until they became discovert, from wbich time it required
twenty years to bar. -their right. Under such circumstances,
no presumption can arise against them, as they had no power
to prosecute any one who entered upon their land. No laches
can be charged against .them until discoverture; and there is
no ground to say that either the statute or lapse of time, since
that period, can affect the rights of the plaintiff, or df those
under whom he claims. 'The court, therefore, did not err in
refusing to give to the jury the instructions requested.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit Court is-affirm'ed, with costs.

WILLIAM E.

POST AND

OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF A PORTION OF THE

CARGo OF THE SHIP RICHMOND, APPELLANTS, v. JOH 11. JONES
AND OTHERS, IJIBELLANTS.
It cannot be doubted that a master has power to sell both vessel and cargo, in certain cases of absolute necessity.
But this )ule had no application to a wreck where the property is deserted, or
about to become so, and the person who has it ii his power to save the crew,
and salve the cargo, prefers t drive a bargain with-the master, and where th#
necessity is imperative because it is the price of safety.
No valid reason can be dsigned for fixing the reward for salving derelict property
at "'not more than a half' or less than a third of the property saved." The true
principle in all cases is, adequate reward according to the circumstances of the
'case.
Where the property salved was transported by the salvors from Bebring's Straits to
the Sandwich Islands, and thence to New York, the salvage service was complete when the property Was brought to a port of safety. The court allowed the
salvors the onehalf for this service, and also freight on thp other moiety from
the Sandwich Islands to New York.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, sitting in admiralty.
It was a libel filed by the owners of the ship Richmond and
cargo, under circumstances which are particularly stated in
the opinion of the court.
The District Court dismissed the libel, thereby affirming the
sales.
The Circuit Court reversed this decree, and declared the

