888'

SUPREME COURT.
.Burkce v. Gainet e at.

the directory at the time of writing that letter, nor on that of
express direction or permission given at the time of its composition. The letter might have been legal and valid in the
absence of either such knowledge or direction, or of both.
The powers of the cashier of a bank are such as are incident.
to, and implied in, his official character, as generally understood, as cash keeper, cash receiver, or payer, as negotiator
and correspondent for the corporation, or as agent for various
acts that are necessary and appropriate to the functions-of such
an officer, and inseparable from the operations of the bank;
or those powers and duties may be created by a general or
special authority declared in the charter or in the by-laws of
the corporation. It would seem. inconsistent with these considerations to determine upon an isolated fact or act of the
cashier, not absolutely irreconcilable with the customary funclions of such an officer, as being decisive of his capacities and
duties; and this, irrespective of reference or inquiry as to the
powers with which he might have been clothed but, on the
contrary, by cutting off all proofs as to the existence of any
such powers, when by the introduction of those proofs the
competency of stich powers, or the recognition of them by the
bank, might perhaps have been shown.
The true character of this cause seems not to have been
developed before the Circuit Court, nor is it made apparent
upon the dertificate now before this court.
We think that all the evidence relevant to the acts and
authority of the cashier, either inherent and exercised- strictly
virhe offici4 or as an agent, general or special, of the bank,
under either the authority of its charter or its by-laws, and
proof, if any, of the ratification or rejection by the bank of this
or of similar acts of the cashier, should have -beenfully brought
out, to be passed upon by the jury under instructions from the
court, or in the mode of a certificate of division, in the event
of a disagreement between the judges. This court, therefore,
refusing to respond upon the question, as propounded to them
upon the certificate from the Circuit Court, remands this case
to that court for trial.
v. WLrLI4
3 H. GAINs
AND WM-, ET AL.

PATRIcK BURKE; PLAmn iFF iw ERIao,

Where a party brought an ejectment in a State court, founding his title upon
documents showing a-settlement claim under thedaws of the United States; and
the Supreme Court of the State decided in favor of that title, the opposite party
cannot bring the case to this cQurt under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
This court has no jurisdiction over such a case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

889

Burke v. Gaines e at.

Tuis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Arkansas, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act..
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Lawrence for the defendants in error,
no counsel appearing for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of -the State of
Arkansas. A brief summary of the case will be sufficient to
show that this court have no jurisdiction.
The defendants in error, who were the plaintiffs in the court
below, brought their action of ejectment in the State court to
recover certain premises described in the declaration.
By a statute of Arkansas, a party may maintain an ejectment upon an equitable title. And the defendants in error,
in order to show such a title in themselves, offered in evidence'
certain documents tending to prove that a certain Ludovicus
Belding had, by settlement in 1829, acquired a pre-emption
right to the land in question, and that they'are isheirs at
law, and have paid to the proper officer the price fixed by the
Government.
. The plaintiff in error offered no evidence of title in himself,
although he was in possession of-the land. And at the trial,
the defendants in error asked the court to instruct the jury
that the papers and documents read in evidence by them were
sufficient to maintain the action, if the defendant in error was
in possession of any part of the land at the commencement of
the suit, and also that they were entitled to recover, by way
of damages, reasonable rents and profits.
he plaintiff in error, on his part, asked the court to instruct
the jury that the certificates and documents offered by the
defendants in error were void, and conferred no title to the
premises.
This is the substance of the instructions asked for by the
respective parties, although drawn out at greater length, and
shows the questions presented for -the decision of the court.
The court gave the instructions asked for by the defendants
in error, and refused those requested by the plaintiff
Under these instructions, the jury found a verdict in favor
of the defendants in error, and a judgment was entered accordingly, which was afterwards affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the State; and upon that judgment, this writ of error was
brought,

890

SUIREME COURT.

It appears, thprefore, that no right was claimed by the
plainti in error under any act of Congress, or under any
authority derived from the United States. He merely objected
to the validity of the title claimed by the defendant, in error.
As the case appears on the record, he was a mere trespasser,
holding possession in opposition to a title claimed under the
United States. The decision of the State court in favor of the
title thus claimed by the defendants in error can certainly give
the plaintiff no right to bring this writ under the twenty-Mfth
section of the act of 1789. 11e claimed no right under the
United States, and consequently can have no foundation for
his writ of error.
The case cannot be distinguished from that of Fulton and
others v. McAffea, (16 Pet., 149,) and the writ must be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

GEcOGE BtuLKLEY, PLAINTIF

EN
iiRROR, V. CHRISTIAN'HoNoW).

The law of Louisiana imposes on the seller the obligation of warranting the thing
sold against its hidden defects, which are those which could not be discovered
by simple inspection; and the purchaser may retain the thing sold, and have an
action for reduction of the price by reason of the difference in value between the
thing as warranted and as it Vas in fact.
Where a vessel was puichased, which was then partly laden as a general ship for
an outward foreign voyage, and after she went to sea she was found to be unseaworthy, and had to return, the defects were hidden defects, under the above law.
A vesstl is included within the terms of the law.
The purchaser was not bound to renounce the vessel. This privilege is provided
for in another and distinct article of the code.
'The contract must be governed by the laws of Louisiana, where it was made and
performed.
Such a sale is not governed" by 'the general commercial law, but by the civil code
of Louisiana.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It.was argued by Mr. Taylor for the plaintiff in error, and
by Hr. Bejamin for the defendant.
.Mr. Taylor contended that, if the law of Louisiana governed,
there was error, because1. The defect in the ship was an apparent defect, in the
legal sense of the term, the existence of which imposed no
responsibility on the vendor.
2. Because the obligation of warranty, implied in sales of

