DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
-ew

York and

irginia Steamah

Company v. Caldenood et al.

answers to this libel of the mortgagees, setting up their proceedings, and the decrees condemning the vessel to pay their
respective claims to the proceeds, in defence.
The case went to a hearing, when the District Court decreed
to dismiss the libel On an appeal, the Circuit Court affirmed
the decree.
The libel filed in this case is a libel simply to foreclose a
mortgage, or to enforce the payment of a mortgage, and the
proceeding cannot therefore be upheld within the case of the
John Jay, heretofore decided by this court. (17 How., 399.)
The proper course for the mortgagees was to have appeared
as claimants to the libels filed against the vessel, in which the
questions presented in the case might have been raised and
considered; or, on the sale of the vessel, and the proceeds
brought into the registry, they might have applied by petition,
claiming an interest in the fund; and if no better right to it
were shown than that under the mortgage, it would have been
competent for the court to have appropriated it to the satisfaction of the claim. As the fund is in the custody of the admiralty, the application must necessarily be made to that court
by any person setting up an interest in"it. This application
by petition is frequently entertained for proceeds in the registry, in cases where a suit in the admiralty would be wholly inadmissible. The decree of the court below is therefore right,
and should be affirmed.

THE ITEw YORK AND VIRGINIA STEAMSHIP COMPANY, OWNERS O?
THE STEAMER ROANOKE, APPELLANTS, V. EZRA CALDERWOOD,
THOMAS
BARTLETT, DEXTER CARLETON, JOSHUA 'TORWOOD,
PHILANDER CARLETON, ENOS COOPER, AND SETH COOPER, LiBELLANTS.

c.

Neither rain, nor the darkness of the night, nor the absence of a light from a barge
or sailing vessel, nor the fact that the steamer was well manned and furnished,
and conducted with caution, will excuse a steamer for coming in collision with
a barge or sailing vessel, where the barge or sailing vessel is at anchor or sail;.
ing in a thoroughfare, but out of the usual track of the steam vessel.
Therefore, where a collision took place between a steamer and a sailing vessel, the
latter being out of the ship channel, and near an edge of shoals, the steamer

must be responsible.
The sailing vessel had no pilot, and did "not exhibit an efficient light. Although
these circumstances did not exonerate the steamer, yet they make it necessary
for this court to say that an obligation rests upon all vessels found in the avenues of commerce, to employ active diligence to avoid collisions, and that no in-

ference can be drawn from the fact, that a vessel is not condemned for an omission of certain precautionary measures in one case, that another vessel will be

excused, under other circumstances, for omissions of the same description.

VOL. XIX.

16

242

SUPREME COURT.
.New Yorle and ririnida teamship Companyt v.

alde0rwood a at.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
It was a libel filed by Calderwood, and the other owners of
called the "Sprightling Sea," against the steamship
schooner
a
Roanoke, her tackle, &c., in a case of collision at the place
and under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the court.
In July, 1853, the district judge decreed that the libellants
should recover against the steamship the damages occasioned
by the collision, and referred the case to a commissioner to ascertain the amount.
In September, 1854, the commissioner reported that there
Was due to the libellants, for the value of the vessel at the time
of the collision, after deducting the amount for which the ves$4,442.00
.------sel sold -.-.---200.00
Amount added to the value above by court
162.00
The value of the freight -- --------672.56
Interest on the above amounts, from Oct. 17, 1852 $5,476.56
The sum of five thousand four hundred and seventy-six dolia'rs and fifty-six cents.
This report was confirmed by the District Court, and, upon
appeal, the decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court, an appeal from which brought the case here.
It was argued by Mrh. Van Winkle for the appellants, and

M. Benedict for the appellees.

.In a case of this kind, wl iere the points of law are confnected
with the evidence, they can only be stated in general terms,
althugh they may not be understood by the reader without a
recital of the evidence. They were these on the part of the
appellants. Hr. Van Winkle, after stating his version of the
case, contended that the schooner was clearly to blame.
1. She was negligent; she was proceeding up a narrow river
in the night time, without a pilot on board, without a light in
her binriacle, and without a light displayed in any part of her
hull or rigging. The steamer was moving as slowly as she
could hy steam; had three lights displayed, which were visible
for nileR; had a competent lookout, and at the.approach of the
danger, ii the emergency, ported her helm. If the light first
seen on her larboard bow was that of the schooner, she still
did all slhe could do by hugging the easterly side of the channel, so as to pass the schooner on the larboard hand. (Trinity
House Rule -of.0th Oct., 1840.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
.New York and Thrginf SteamsA@v Company v. Cal&noood d A

2. It is the duty of a sailing vessel in a river or roadstead to
carry a light at night, conspicuouly displayed in her rigging;
if not inperative on her to do so't is a precautionary measure, dictated by prudence, and. if neglected, precludes, a recovery, except for wilful damage. (The Rose Gilmor, 2 Wi.
Rob.,
The schooner
Columbine, Norwood, Ibid., 33.)
3. If4; the
was not to blame, or not so much so as
to render her liable, then it was a case of inevitable accident,
and the loss must remain where it fell. (Stainback v. Rae, 14
How., 532.)
4. The true state of the case seems to be, that the two vessels, when they respectively discovered each other, were apparoaching on opposite courses on a line, or on parallel lines
so close as to amount to the same thing; that the steamer

ported her helm, bore off to the starboard, close to the edge of
the
channel, which is here very narrow; but the schooner,
tbrough mistake or nmismanagement, changed her course, fell
the steamer's bows.
with t e wind, and ran across
If this be so, the steamer was not the cause of the accident,
but the schooner was.
5. But, admitting that the schooner kept her course, the
steamer, as indutybound, tried to pass to the leeward of her.
The schooner's navigators had no right to persist in their
course, when they knew, or ought to have known, by-so doing they incurred the imminent danger of forcing the steamer
ashore, in her endeavors to pass to the leeward. It comes
within the exceptions laid down in St. John v. Paine et al.,
(10 Howard, 582.)
Mr. Benedict's points were the following:
I. The plan of the position of the vessels at the time of the
collision, asserted by the defendants, and proved by them to
be a fair plan of the place *ofcollision, exhitits the schooner
close in shore, in'a deep bay, heading along shore, and the
steamer far out of the channel-also close in shore, heading at
the schooner-a position so surprising as to put the steamer on
her defence, with the strongest presumption against her-the
wind being about south, and the schooner close-hauled on the
privileged tack. They do not produce a lookout. The capWin and pilot say they had a lookout. If so, the not producng him is ground of strong suspicion.
SI. Their helmsman, Henson, is called to explain, and he
says, "It was a kind of cloudy night; oncein a while you
would -see the stirs; it was not very thick or cloudy." This
is corroborated by all our wftnesses, and is true, although the
captain and pilot swear it was pitch dark; could hardly see

SUPREME COURT.
New York and Pirg'niaSteamshtp Company v. Calde-wood a al.

the width of this room. He says, also, "The steamer was running NT. W. half W., pretty much down the channel, rather
more on the east, if anything." "There was ample room to
havy gone clear of her." -Under these circumstances, they
would never come together.
They, however, came together, the steamer having chanoced
her course, before the collision, towards the east shore. "The
pilot told me to keep her a little more to the east. He told
me to port the helm, to gve her more room. The next words
he said were, 'hard a-port."'
"Before we (steamer) changed our course, she was heading
iibout down the channel. After we changed, she was heading
towards the east shore.
The steamer struck the schooner, and cut her half in two.
I take this as the best account of the state of things in the
steamer, for, although their other witnesses vary from it, it is
quite clear that the man at the wheel is altogether the most reliable, and the pilot and the cajtain evidently are so much
biased as not to be quite reliable. The weight of testimony
is overwhelming in favor of this account of the matter.
III. The schooner was close-hauled, jam on the wind, her
starboard tacks aboard, and continued so; all our witnesses
swear to this. They know, and they alone know, how our
sails were trimmed; and as soon as we saw the steamer's approach, we held up forward a good signal-light, and we were
as close in shore as possible.
The testimony of some of their witnesses, that it was so dark
that they could not see half the width of the room, although
not true, is evidence that they did not see us, and are not,
therefoe, reliable witnesses as to our position, &c.
- IV. By the settled law of navigation, the steamer is always
held to have a free wind. She has so, in fact, being moved
by a force within herself, and under her control. She makes
the wind blow as she pleases, and she is therefore bound to
avoid a sailing vessel. At this time she had also the outside
atmospheric wind free, and the schooner was close-hauled on
the wind on her starboard tack. On all grounds she had the
right to hold her course, and the steamer was bound to avoid
her.
V. The alleged declarations of the captain are of no value.
They are highly improbable, in the sense in which they are
offered. He says he never said so. What he did say may
have been misunderstood or misremembered, so as to convert
the mere language of civility into that of deliberate judg ent,
or he may have been adroitly led to say what he never intended to say. The. question is not what the master said weeks

_.,AMBER TERM, 1856.
ew York and Vihga

245

teaSmap Company v. CaldMwood e al.

afterwards, but what are the facts. He could not thus destroy
the rights of the owners.
VL There was a vessel at anchor on the western shore, a
little-further down, with a light up, and we showed a warning
light just before the collision.
The probability is, that on board the steamer they came to
the conclusion that the schooner had changed her course, by
transferring their first observation of the vessel at anchor, with
a light up, to the schooner with its signal light temporarily
exposed; and from these negligent observations, supposing
both vessels to be one, they mistook the position of the
schooner, and endeavored to cut in between her and the shore,
when she was within a few feet of the shore, and this caused
that collision. If the steamer had kept the channel, or had
taken a sheer to westward a minute before collision, she would
have passed clear of us.
Mr. Justice CAMPTBELL *deliveredthe opinion of the court.
This is a case of collision, in which the steamship Roanoke
is charged with having carelessly and negligently run into and
afoul of the schooner Sprightling Sea, in the Elizabeth river,
Virginia, in October, 1852.
The facts disclosed by the pleadings and proofs are, that the
schooner was asdending the river between 10 and 11 o'clock,
P. M., and sailing at a rate of six miles per hour, with the aid
of the tide. -Sue was close-hauled, on her starboard tack, at a
time when she descried the steamship descending the river,
on her voyage to Richmond. The collision occurred on the
easterh side of the river, "out of the ship channel," "near an
edge of shoalsi" and "within a length or two of them." The
object of those who managed the schooner was to avoid
all danger, by leaving as large a space as possible for the
steamer, whose lights had been seen. For this purpose, they
ajiproached as nearly as possible the eastern shore-the usual
shore, for vessels navigated as she was, to ascend the river.
The schooner did not carry a light in her fore rigging; but one
was exhibited from her breast-hook some time before and till
the time of the collision; and the steamer was hailed, and told
to keep offi
The night was "dark and rainy;" the steamer was not running at any time at an improper rate of speed. The officers
of the steamship discovered the light on the schooner, and
supposed it to belong "to a vessel at anchor;" but they say
the "light disappeared, and the. next time they saw it, it was
near by, under the bow of the steamer." The probability is,
that the officers of the steamship were mistaken in their con-

246

SUPREME COURT.
Waims v. Rl4

a.

clusions in reference to the course of the schooner, and under
that mistaken impression went to the eastern side, and thus
encountered her. l1o orders were given by the pilot in respect to the management of the steamer till the instant of the
collision.
This court has decided that neither rain, nor the darkness of the night, nor the absence of a light from a barge or
sailing vessel, nor the fact that the steamer was well manned,
and furnished, and conducted with caution, will excuse the
steamer for coming in collision with the barge or sailing vessel, where the barge or sailing vessel is at anchor, or sailing in.
a thoroughfare, out of the usual track of the steam vessel. In
the present instance, the steamer had notice that a vessel was
before her, and was near her track, and, under the circumstances, she, was bound to take efficient measures to avoid the
schooner.
The only facts we notice in the management of the schooner, which have occasioned a hesitation to affirm the decree, are
the absence of a licensed pilot, and that the schooner did not
exhibit an efficient light. The proofs in the case do not allow
us to charge these omissions as indications of negligence; but,
that the case may not be misunderstood, we assert that the
ruling principle of the court isthat an obligation rests upon
all vessels found in the avenues of commerce to employ active
diligence to avoid collisions, and that no inference can be
drawn from the fact, that a vessel is not condemned for an
omission of certain precautionary measures in one case, that
another vessel will be excused, under other circumstances, for
omissions of the same description.
The decree of the Circuit Court is atmed.

Wtsixy WmumiAs,

G.RNISHEE O EDWARD F. MAnowE,
TIF IN ERR OR, V. HILL., MoLANE, & Co.

PLAiN-

The laws of Alabama provide, thatwherethere is a judgment against a debtorwho
Is unable to pay, a process of garnishment (which is called in some of the States
an attachment upon final process) piay be issued and laid in the hands of a gar-

nishee, who mayowe money to the judgment debtor,.or have any effects -within
the control of the garnishee.
The garnishee, having real property under his control by virtue of a dqed of trust,
cannot retain it for the purpose of reimbursing himself for advances made to the
judgment debtor after the eecution of the deed in execution of a parol contract
between them.
Where the garnishee skA up . claim to the funds In his laands, he must prove the
bona fides of his claim, if it is derived fiom the judgment debtor after the oTigIn

of the creditor's demand.

-

.

I

