890

SUIREME COURT.

It appears, thprefore, that no right was claimed by the
plainti in error under any act of Congress, or under any
authority derived from the United States. He merely objected
to the validity of the title claimed by the defendant, in error.
As the case appears on the record, he was a mere trespasser,
holding possession in opposition to a title claimed under the
United States. The decision of the State court in favor of the
title thus claimed by the defendants in error can certainly give
the plaintiff no right to bring this writ under the twenty-Mfth
section of the act of 1789. 11e claimed no right under the
United States, and consequently can have no foundation for
his writ of error.
The case cannot be distinguished from that of Fulton and
others v. McAffea, (16 Pet., 149,) and the writ must be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

GEcOGE BtuLKLEY, PLAINTIF

EN
iiRROR, V. CHRISTIAN'HoNoW).

The law of Louisiana imposes on the seller the obligation of warranting the thing
sold against its hidden defects, which are those which could not be discovered
by simple inspection; and the purchaser may retain the thing sold, and have an
action for reduction of the price by reason of the difference in value between the
thing as warranted and as it Vas in fact.
Where a vessel was puichased, which was then partly laden as a general ship for
an outward foreign voyage, and after she went to sea she was found to be unseaworthy, and had to return, the defects were hidden defects, under the above law.
A vesstl is included within the terms of the law.
The purchaser was not bound to renounce the vessel. This privilege is provided
for in another and distinct article of the code.
'The contract must be governed by the laws of Louisiana, where it was made and
performed.
Such a sale is not governed" by 'the general commercial law, but by the civil code
of Louisiana.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It.was argued by Mr. Taylor for the plaintiff in error, and
by Hr. Bejamin for the defendant.
.Mr. Taylor contended that, if the law of Louisiana governed,
there was error, because1. The defect in the ship was an apparent defect, in the
legal sense of the term, the existence of which imposed no
responsibility on the vendor.
2. Because the obligation of warranty, implied in sales of

DECEMBER TRM 1856.

891

.Diilky v. Honold

ships, does not extend to cases of decay, to which they are,

from their nature, liable.
8. The defendant in error, by failing to offer to place the
defendant in the court below in the position he was in before
the sale, by tendering back the ship, &c., lost all right to maintain his action in redhibition or in diminution of the price.
He contended, also, that the case was not governed by the law
of Louisiana, but by the la* of New York, where the vendor had
his domicil, or by the commercial, law of the United States.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error brought his action in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district &fLouisiana, founded on the allegations, that he purchased at New
Orleans, of the plaintiff in error and others, a vessel called the
Ashland, for the sum of $27,500; that the vessel was then partly
laden as a general ship for an outward foreign voyage, and -it
was agreed the purchaser should take on himself the expenses
and advantages of that condition of the vessel; that, accordingly, the cargo was completed and the vessel went to sea, but
was found to be unseaworthy, returned to New Orleans, the
cargo was removed; and the hull examined and ascertained to
be so decayed and rotten as tb be of no value without very
extensive and costly repairs. The court found these facts
proved, and allowed to the plaintiff below damages equal to
the difference between the price paid and the actual value of
the vessel, adding the expenses of the vessel and cargo, incurred by the plaintiff below by reason of the sale.
The petition averred a fraudulent concealment by the vendors of the defects of the vessel, but the court found this not
proved.
The law of Louisiana imposes on the seller the obligation
of warranting the thing sold agat its hidden defects. ' (Civ.
Code, arts. 2,450, 2,451.) HidMen defects are those which could
not be discovered by simple inspection. (Civ. Code, art. 2,497.)
In case the seller desires to rescind the contract by reason of
the breach of such'a warranty, he may do so by an action of
redhibition. But he may also retain the thing sold, and have
an action for reduction of the price by reason of the differene
in value between the thing as warranted and as it was in fact.
(Civ. Code, arts. 2,519, 2,520.) - And in this action only such
a part of the price as will indemnify the vendee for the difference between the value of the thing as warranted and the thing
actually sold, together with the expenses incurred on the thing,
after deducting its fruits, can be recovered." (Civ.Code, arts.
2,522, 2,509.)

SUPREME COURT.
.Bulkley v. Howzol.

The Circuit Court appears to have'strictly pursued these
rules in framing its judgment.,
But it is insisted the defects were apparent, and not hidden
defects. We do not think so. Certainly they were discoverable, but not on what the code terms simple inspection. It
was necessary to strip or bore the vessel, to ascertain the state
of its frame; and this, we think, the vendee was not bound to
do under the law of Louisiana.
It is further argued that the implied warranty does not extend to the soundness of a vessel, because it is known to all,
that, from the nature of the thing, it must decay, and the purchaser may be considered as knowing this, and making allowance therefor in the price. It is true that vessels must, after
some time, decay; and it is also true that most subjects of sale
must at some time become of less or of no value. But it is
not true that vessels exposed to sale are generally unsound
and unseaworthy. The buyer has no notice, from the nature
of the article, that any particular vessel offered to be sold is
unseaworthy by reason of the decayed state of that part of its
frame which is- concealed from sight. We do not perceive,
therefore, why any different rule should be applicable to vessels, from that applied to most other subjects of sale. (See De
Arias v. Gray et al., 10 Louis. R., 675.)
Another objection is, that the plainf below did not offer to
restore the vessel. But this proceeds on a misapprehension
of the nature of the remedy. In an action of redhibition, such
an offer would be necessary. Here, the contract is to stand
unrescinded, and the buyer retains the thing, the price only
being lessened as much as is necessary to do justice.
It was also argued that this contract was not to be governed
by the laws of Louisiana, but by the laws of New York, where
the vendors resided. But the contract was made and performed in Louisiana, and must be governed by its laws.
(Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Peters, 685; Cox v. United States, 6 Peters, 172; Bell v. Bruin, 1 How., 169.)
The counsel for the plaintiff in error also urged, that if the
law of Louisiana ought to govern the contract, that law was to
be found, not in the civil code of that State, but in the general
commercial-law of the country. Without pausing. upon the
difficulties which otherwise might attend this proposition, we
think it sufficient to say, that we-find the subject of sales, with
the obligations which attead them, .regulated by the-eiMl code
_of-Louisana, a nwesee ib iound reason why sales of vessels
are iiot within thase laws.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

