108

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers et al. v. Steamer St. Charles et al.

ROGERS AND L. F. ROGERS, MERCHANTS AND COPARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME AND STYLE OF E. G.
ROGERS & CO., PART OWNERS OF THE CARGO OF THE SCHOONER
ELLA; POOLEY, NICOLL, & Co., OWNERS OF THE SAID SCHOONER
ELLA; J. R. BROOKS AND F. G. RANDOLPH, MERCHANTS AND
COPARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME AND STYLE OF

E. G.

BROOKS &RANDOLPH,

AND THOMAS SULLIVAN, TRADING UNDER

THE NAME OF JOHN "HURLEY & Co., PART OWNERS OF THE CARGO OF THE SCHOONER ELLA, APPELLANTS, V. THE STEAMER ST.
CHARLES, JAMES L. DAY, ADAM WOLF, JOHN GEDDES, JOHN
GRANT, ROGER A. HEIRNE, AND ROBERT GEDDES, CLAIMANTS.
Where a steamer ran down and sunk a schooner which was at anchor in a dark
and rainy night, the schooner was to blame for having no light, which, at the
time of collision, had been temporarily removed -for thp purpose of being
cleansed.
But, inasmuch as the schooner was in a place much frequented as a harbor in
stormy weather, and of which the steamer was chargeable with knowledge, it
was the duty of the steamer to slacken her speed on such a night, if not to have
avoided the place altogether, which could easily have been done.
The fact that the steamer carried the U. S.. mail, is no excuse for her proceeding
at such a rapid rate.
The case must therefore.be remanded to the Circuit Court, to apportion the loss.
Where the decree was for a less sum than two thousand dollars, the appeal must
be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiralty.
It was a case of collision under the circumstances stated in
the 6pini6n of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Benjamin for the appellants, and Mr.

Nelson for the appellees.
Mr. Benjamin made the following points:
I. The undisputed facts are as follows: The Ella was at anchor; the night was dark and rainy; the hour of the collision
was abo-at half-pdst eleven, P. M.; the St. Charles was running
at a speed of eight or nine miles an hour, at least; the collision
occurred by the steamer's running at that rate of speed against
a vessel at anchor in a dark night.
I. We allege that the Ella was anchored in a proper placei
and out of the track usually'pursued by steamers from New
Orleans to Mobile or Pensacola.
III. The Ella had her light out in the customary manner.
This is proven by a number of witnesses, and their testimony

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

109

.Rogers et al. v. Steamer St. Charles et al.

is not to be overthrown by the oath of witnesses on the steamer, thit they did not see it.
IV. It was extreme imprudence in the St. Charles to run at
her rate of speed in a dark iiight, in waters crowded with
snall vessels in a place where they usually anchor. The speed
is stated by the witnesses at ten or eleven knots an hour, eight
or nine knots, and ten knots. Ydt this speed was not checked,
although several vessels were confessedly anchored together
where the Ella was, all with light§ displayed.
The points taken in Mr. Nelson's brief were the following, viz:
By referring to the report of the commissioner and the decree of the District Court, it will be perceived that the claim
of Brooks & Randolph is for the sum of eight hundred and
thirty-five dollars and five cents, and that of John Hurley & Co.
thirteen hundred' and sixty-eight dollars and ninety-eight cents,
sums insufficient to sustain the jurisdiction of this court, and
that this appeal, as far as concerns them, must be dismissed. 6
Peters, 143; Oliver v. Alexander, &c.
With regard to the remaining libellants, the appellees will
maintain that, upon the evidence, it is clear that the collision
complained of was in no wise attributable to the fault or negligence of those navigating the steamer, but was the result of
a want of care on the part of the schooner, and that the decree
of the Circuit Court ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice IELSOI delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the eastern district of the State of Louisiana,
sitting in admiralty.
* The libel was filed in the District Court to recover the value
of a quantity of merchandise on board the schooner Ella, which
was sunk in a collision with the steamer on Lake Borgne, some
six or eight miles east of the light-ship -in Pass Mary Ann,
while at anchor on the night of the 5th February, 1853. The
District Court rendered a decree charging the steamer with
the loss.
On an appeal, the Circuit Court reversed the decree, and dismissed the libel, on the ground that the schooner was in fault
in not having a light in the fore-rigging, or in any other conspicuous place on the vessel, to give notice of her position to
the approaching steamer.
The night was dark and rainy, and the wind blowing fresh
from north-northwest. A proper light had been hung in the
fore-rigging early in the evening, and kept there till near the

110

SUPREME COURT.
2iogers etal. v. Steamer St. Charlke

a

al.

time of the collision, which happened about half-past eleven
o'clock. One of the hands had taken the lamp down to wipe
off the water that had collected upon the glass globe, so that it
might shine brighter. While he was standing midships, wiping
the lamp, he heard the approach of the steamer, and immediately placed it on the top of the cook-house. The collision
soon after occurred. The fault lies in removing the lamp for
a moment from the fore-rigging to midships. If it was not
practicable to wipe it in the rigging, another light should have
been placed there on its removal. The time of the removal
may be, as happened in this case, the instant when the presence of the light was most needed to give warning to the vessel approaching. All the hands examined who were on board
the steamer deny that they saw any light at the time on the
schooner.
We agree, therefore, with the court below, that the schooner
was in fault.
But it is insisted, on the part of the appellants, that the
steamer was also in fault on account of her rate of speed at
the time, regard being had to the darkness of-the night and
the character of the channel she was navigating. The schooner,
on coming out of the Pass Mary Ann, towards evening met a
strong head wind and swell of the lake, and after pursuing her
course some four or five miles, anchored under Oat Island.
There were several other vessels at anchor at the time in that

vicinity.
Some of the witnesses state that the place is used as a harbor for schooners and other vessels navigating the lake in
rough weather, as it is somewhat sheltered from the winds;
and the number of vessels at anchor in the neighborhood, at
the time of the collision, would seem to confirm this statement,
and there is no evidence in the case to the contrary.
There is conflicting evidence on a point made by the appellant, that the steamer was out of the direct and usual course
of steamers from Pass Mary Ann to Mobile. The weight of
it is, that this course was a mile and a half or two miles north
of the place where the schooner lay. But we do not attach
much influence to this fact, as in the open lake there w~s no
very fixed track of these vessels within the limit maentioned.
There is also some little discrepancy of the witnesses as to
the darkness of the night. But the clear weight of it is, that
at the time of the collision it was very dark and rainy, and the
wind blowing fresh.
The witnesses on the part of the steamer are very explicit
on this part of the case. The pilot says, the night was very
dark, and drizzling. rain. The captain, that the night was

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

111

oera et al. v. Steamer St. Charles et al.

dark and cloudy, and the wind bl6wing briskly. The engineer, that -the night was so dark, a vessel of the size of the
schooner could' not be seen at all till upon her, without a
light; and yet he says there was nothing in the weather to
prevent her running at her usual speed.
The steamer was going, at the time of the collision, at the
rate of from nine to ten miles an hour. The pilot says, at her
usual rate of speed, or at the rate of eight or nine knots.
The engineer, not exceeding the usual rate of speed, which, it
appears, averages about ten miles. The mate states, that the
speed at the time was between ten and eleven miles.
lNow, considering the darkness of the night and state of the
weather, and that the steamer was navigating a channel where
she was accustomed to meet sailing vessels engaged in the
coasting trade'between Mobile and Iew Orleans and the intermediate ports, we cannot resist the conclusion that the rate of
speed above stated was too great for prudent and safe navigation; and this, whether-we regard the security of the passengers on board of her,, or the reasbnable protection of other
vessels navigating the same chaunel; and especially under the
circumstances of this case, in which she was bound to know
that the place where this schooner lay was a place to which
vessels in rough and unpropitioifs weather, navigating this
channel, were accustomed to resort for safety. The case presented is much stronger against the steamer than that of casually meeting the schoonei~in the open waters 'ofthe lake. She
was at anchor with other vessels in an accustomed place of
security and protection against adverse winds and weather,
familiar to all persons engaged in. navigating these waters.
The place and weather, therefore, should have admonished the
steamer tR extreme care' -and caution, and it is, perhaps, not
too much -to say, should have led to the adoption of a course
that would have avoided the locality altogether. The weight
of the evidence is, even if she had pursued the most direct
course from Pass Mary Ann to Mobile, it would have had this
effect: she would have passed north of this cluster of vessels
anchored under the shelter of the island.
Neither is it at all improbable, if the speed of the steamer
had been slackened, and she had been moving at a'reduced
rate, with the care and caution required by the state of the
weather, that she would have seen the light on the. schooner
in time to have avoided her., The proof is full that there was
a light on board from the time she cast anchtr till the happening of the disaster. But, at the ciitical moment, it was in the
hand of the seaman at midships, instead of at a conspicuous
blace in the rigging. The light must have been in some de-

SUPREME COURT.

112

Rogers et al. v. Steamer St. Charles et al.

gree visible, as all the sails of the vessel were furled, and was
placed on the top of the cook-house as soon as the wet and
moisture were wiped from the glass.
The admiralty in England have repeatedly condemned vessels holding a rate of speed in a dark night, under circumstances like the present, and so did this court in the case of
the steamer New Jersey, (10 How., 568.) The Rose, 2 Win.
Rob., 1; The Virgil, Tb., 201.
It has been urged, on behalf of the steamer, -that she carried the mail, and that a given rate of speed was necessary in
fulfil her contract with the Government.
todefence
order
' Thishas been urged in similar and analogous cases
in England, but has been aisregarded, and indeed must be,
unless we regard the interest and convenience of the arrival
of an early mail more impotant than the reasonable protection
of the live and property of our citizens.
Having arrived at the conclusion that the steamer was in
fault, the case is one for the apportionment of'the loss.
,The decree must therefore be reversed, and the -case remitted to the court below, for the purpose of carrying this ampoitionment into effect.
FOOLEY, N~ICOLL,

k Co.,

V.

THE

STEAMER ST. 0iARLES.J

The decree of the court below is reversed, for the reasons
given in the case of E. G. Rogers &,Co. v. the same steamer,
and remitted to the court for an apportionment of the loss.
BROOKS & RANDOLPH
THE

STEAMER ST. CHARLES.J

The appeal in this case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction;
the decree in the court below being for a sum less than $2,000.
I

JOHN HURI9Y & CO.

THE STEAMER ST. CHARLES.

The appeal is dismissed for want of jurisdiction; the decree
of the court below being for a sum less than $2,000.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the:
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
eastern itrict of Louisiana,' and was argued by counsel. .On
consideration whereof; it is the opinion of this court that the
appeals of Brooks & Randolph, and Hurley & Co., should be

DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.

113

Coir6n el aZ. v. Atllaudon et al.'

for the want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the
d
dismissed
amount in controversy in each of the said cases is less than
$2,000; and it is also theopinion of this court that the steamer
St. Charles was in fault, and that the decree of the said Circuit
Court in the cases of E. G. Rogers & Co., and Pooley, Nicoll,
& Co., should be reversed, and the cause remanded for an apportionment of the loss on thesetw6 appeals. Whereupon, it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, that
the appeals of Brooks & Randolph, and of Hurley & Co., be
and the same are hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction;
and that the decreee of the said Circuit Court in the cases of
E. G. Rogers & Co., and: Pooley, Nicoll, & Co., be and the
same are hereby reyersed with costs; and that this cause be
and the same is herhby remanded to the said Circuit Court for
further prodeedings to be had therein in conformity to the
.opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

PIERRE -FELIX CoiRoN AND MARIE J. T. COIRON, A MINOR,
BY HER NEXT FRIEND, PIERRE FELIX CoIRoN, APPELLANT0, V.
LAURENT MILLAUDON, EDWARD SHIFF, SYNDICS, &C., OF ALEX-

ANDER LEsSEPS, ET AL.'
Where a sale of mortgaged property in Louisiana was made under proceedings in
insolvency, and the heirs of the insolvent filed a bill to set aside the sale on the

ground of irregularity, it was necessary to make the mortgagees parties.

They

had been paid their share of the purchase money, and had an interest in upholding the sale.
The fact that such persons are beyond the jurisdiction of the court is not a sufficient reason for omitting to mlke them parties.
Neither the act of Congress nor the 47th rule of this court enables the Circuit
Court to make a decree in a suit in the absence of a party whose rights must

* necessarily be affected -by such decree, and the objection may.be taken at any
time upon the hearing or in the appellate court.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting as a cDurt
of equity.
The facit are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
It was'submitted on a printed argument by Mr. H~unt and,
Ogden for the appellants, and' argued by 2r. Benjamin for
the appellees.

-Mr.

The point uPo4 which the case was decided wasthus stated
by A&r. Benjamin:
LIThere is an absence of the parties mid 9pensable in -thm
-suit. --The complainants seek to .sef aside, a . de. made by-the
VOL. xix.

8

