DECEMBER TERM; 1856.

803

Byera v. Suryet.

assignment "made after the controversy had commenced, and
with the acknowledged purpose of using his father as a witness.
was found that sufficient evidence did not exist to support
-It
the claim, and machinery was resorted to, calculated to introduce the evils of champerty and maintenance.
The witness sold his clain, with a concession to the assignee
to employ him as a witness to establish it.
Such a practice holds out to parties a strong temptation to
commit perjury. (Bell v. Smith, 5 B. and C., 188, J. Bayley's
.Opinion; Maury v. Mason, 8 Part., 212; Clifton v. Sharpe, 15
Ala. k., 618; 1 Penu. R., 214; 12 Pet., 140.)
The testimony of Edward Wyman is open to much observation; and I feel entirely indisposed to rest a decree upon his
evidence. Nor do I see intrinsic difficulties in the inconsistencies of the answer, I cannot shut my eyes to the fact that
nothing has been done between these parties for above twentythree years inconsistent with the relations of vendor and vendee, or consistent with the relations of a creditor and debtor,
except the detention of the evidence of the original debt by
the defendaht, and the most important part of that evidence
.was cancelled in 1830 by him.
I dissent'from the opinion of the court in reference to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States in Massachusetts. It is admitted that, in the courts of Massachusetts,
this trust could not be incorporated into the deed. The statute
of frauds prevents it. (Walker v. Locke, 5 Cush., 90.)
This statute constitutes a rule of property for the State. In
the present case, the'subject of the suit is a contract made in
Massachusetts, by citizens of that State; and affecting the title
there. In my opinion, the statute law of Masto real property
-sachusetts
furnishes
a rule of decision to the courts of the United States.
-

WILLIAM BYERS, APPELLANT,

v.

FRANCIS SURGET.

Where there was a judgment for costs against the-plaintiff, in a suit where the defendant pleaded a discharge in bankruptcy, and- the attorney for the defendant
taxed those costs, directed the property upon which an execution should be levied
for their collection, prepared the advertisements for the sale of it, caused a sale
to *befhade of fourteen thousand acres of land, to produce a few dollars as costs,
and then became himself the purchaser, the sale will be decreed fraudulent and

void, and ordered to be set aside.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Arkansa, sitting inequity.

804

SUPREME COURT.
Byera v. Surge.

It was a bill filed by Surget, a citizen of Mississippi, to set
aside a sale made under the circumstances, which are folly
stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court decreed that the purchase of the lands by
Byers was fraudulent and void, and ordered the sale to be set
aside. Byers appealed to this court.
It was argued by .f. Lawrence for the appellee, no counsel
appearing for the appellant.
Mr. Justice DAlNIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, Francis Surget, a citizen of the State bf Mississippi, instituted his suit in equity in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the eastern district of Arkansas, against
the appellant, the object of which suit was to annul as fraudulent and void a sale of lands belonging to the appellee, made
by the sheriff of Jackson, in Arkansas, on the 18th of May,
1846. These lands, situated in the county and State above mentioned, are described in the pleadings a~cording to the public
surveys, amounting to more than fourteen thousand acres, and
estimated in value at from forty or seventy thousand dollars,
and were sold by the sheriff in satisfaction of a claim for.,$39,
and conveyed to the appellant for the sum of nine dollars thirteen and one-half cents.
The Circuit Court having pronounced the sale and conveyance fraudulent and void, and decreed a surrender and reconveyance of the lands by the appellant to the appellee, the
former party has appealed from that decree to this-court.
The facts of this cause, as collated from the pleadings, and
as established by the proofs, are substantially as follows:
The appellee, during the year 1835, separately, and in his individual right, entered and purchased of the Government of
the United States, at their land office at Batesville, in the State
of Arkansas, a number of tracts or parcels of land, situated in
the county of Jackson, in the State aforesaid, all of which are
known and designated on the plats of the public surveys, and
are enumerated and set forth in the bill. In the same year,
(1835,) about the 10th of November; the appellee, together
with John Ker, Stephen Duncan, and William B. Duncan,
formed a partnership under the name and style of William B.
Duncan & Co., and, in the name and behalf of that firm, entered and purchased of the United States, at their land office
at Batesville, various other tracts, lots, and parcels of land,
lying in the same county and State, known and designated on
the plats of the public surveys, and described and set out in
the bill. Sometime, in the year 1836,'the partnership of Wil-

DECEBR TERM, 1856.
Bjyer

v. Suryd.

ham B. Duncan & Co. was, by mutual consent, dissolved; and
the property, real and personal, belongng to the ffrm, including the purchases and entries of laud made by them, was by
like
consent
dividd,
andinthe
portion ofThe
eachportions
partnerassigned
allotted
to him,
and by
him held
severalty.
and allotted, under this distribution,
Stephen Duncan
and
of William
thetopartnership
Wllam B. Duncan, as members of
bill
Subsequently
the dissolution
B. Duncan
& Co., aretoparticularly
set outofand
thedescribed
in the
partnership
of
William B. Duncan & Co., and to the transfer to each
p
artner
of his respective rights and int
terein, Stephen uncan
ters
and William B. Duncan, by deeds bearing date, the one on
the 29th of December, 1836, and the other on the 23d of March,
1837, sold and conveyed to the appellee in fee simple, together
with sufidry other tracts and parcels of land, the lands, lots,
and parcels, befofe mentioned as having been transferred and
assigned to said Stephen and William B., as members of the
2rm of William B. Duncan & Co., all of which lots and parcels of land, so conveyed to the appellee by Stephen and gilliam B. Duncan, as well as the portion thereof belonging to
'the appellee, as a'member of the firm of William B. Duncan &
Co., and the several lots and parcels of land originally and:
separately entered and purchased by the appellee in his own
right, were included in the levy and sale impeached by the.
bill.

In the year 1840, four yearn after the dissolution of the firrn
of William B. Duncan & Co., an action was instituted in thename of that firm, by William B. Duncan, in the Circuit Cdurtof Jackson county, in the State of Arkansas, against one
Noadilah Marsh, for a breacl of covenant; and in that suit4
under the plea of a subsequent discharge in bankruptcy, the
court gaze judgment in favor of the defendant for costs of suit.
The bill charges that this suit instituted againt Marsh was:
posterior in time to the, dissolution of the partnership, and?
was commenced and prosecuted .without the authority or
knowedge of the other membQrs of the recent partnership,
who all .esided beyond the limits of the State of Arkansas;
and 'furthr avers, that the first knowledge of the existence of'
'the suit on the part 6 the appellee was imparted
to him by &
communikation informing. him of the sale of his land. Thist
allegation in the bill. it ' repect to the period at which the
suit against Marsh was instituted, and with respect also to the
person by whom instituted, and the ignorance on the part of'
the appellee of the institution of that suit, is fully sustained
by the deposition of William B. Duncan, and by the facts that
the deeds from the other partners to the appellee, exe'cute&I
VOL. xIX.
20

306

SUPREME COURT.
Byera v. wurgt.

after the dissolution, bear date In the years 1836 and 1837;
the action at law acrainst Marsh not having been commenced
until 1840, September 5th.
But should it be conceded that the partnership was in full
existence at the time of the institution of the suit against
Marsh, and that the suit had been ordered or sanctioned by
the firm, yet ajudgment for costs against them, upon a ground
which controverted neither the justice nor the legality of their
claim, presents an anomaly in judicial proceedings, as irreconcilable with reason as it is believed to be without precedent.
Upon this extraordinary judgment, the appellant, as the
attorney for the defendant in the inferior court, assumed to
himself the power to tax the costs adjudged to the defendant;
to tax them not in the capacity of clerk, the agent created by
law for the performance of that service, nor in that of the legal
deputy or subordinate of that officer, but, as it has been
asserted, as a sort of amious clerici, and with equal benevolence,
or in order to remedy the ignorance and imbecility which, by
way of justification of the appellant's acts, it is attempted to
,be shown, characterized the ministers of the law in that unfortunate locality, assumed to himself the power and the right
mot only of selecting the final process, but of prescribing also
the description and the quantity of the property which he
chose to have seized in satisfaction of that process; of furnishing a list of the parcels and amount which he chose to have
Thus seized; of ordering the sheriff to levy upon the whole of
what he had so described; of preparing himself and furnishing
to the officer such advertisements for the sale of the property
-levied upon as he approved; of requiring of the sheriff, under
peril of responsibility for refusal, towards -the satisfaction of
an execution for thirty-nine dollars and ten cents, peremptoril
to make sale of more than fourteen thousand. acres of land,
estimated by the witnesses from forty to seventy thousand
dollars; -andfinally, under a proceeding irregular in its origin,
commenced by himself, and by him controlled and managed
to its consummation, of becoming the purchaser of the.property
estimated as above, for the sum of nine dollars thirteen and
one-half cents.
Such is the history of a transaction which the appellant asks
of* this court to sanction; and it seems pertinent here to
inquire, under what system of civil polity, under what code of
law or ethics, a transaction like that disclosed by the record.
in this case can be excused, or even palliated? To the appellant must necessarily be imputed full knowledge of this
transaction; he was the attorney for the defendant in the State,
court; he is shown to have been not only the adviser, but

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
.Byera v.

80T

jS'uee

virtually-the executor, of every step taken for the enforcement
of the judgment of that court; and, as a lawyer, it is reasonable to presume that he must have comprehended the nature
and effects of the measures adopted by him and at his instance.
The bill impeaches these measures as. being contrived by the
appellant for purposes of fraud and oppression, as is betrayed1. By the anomalous character of the judgment procured by
the apellant, without notice or knowledge on the part of the
.
appellee...
2. By the fact, that the process sued out upon the judgment
at law was not made out by the only officer legally authorized
for that purpose, -but was calculated, and drawn up, and
determined, and written, out, by the appellant himself, and by
his authority and direction delivered to the sheriff, who was
ordered by this same party on whit particular property and to
what amount to levy the execution.
8. By the facts, that whatever notices or advertisements may
have been given or prepared previously to the sale of the lands
levied upon, were prepared not by the sherif but by the
appellant; and that such as were prepared by him were not
published by the sheriff in the mode prescribed by the law,
previously-to the sale of lands under execution.
4. By the wantbhi excessiveness of the levy insisted on by
the appellant; this being an abuse of the process of the court,
and.'evidence of a fraudulent design, with a view to incite
suspicion, and to deter purchasers by reason of that suspicion,
and by offering larger portions of property than many persons
woul be willing or able to purchase.
5. By the peremptory demand upon the sherif and in oprosition to the remonstrances of this officer, ind under threats,
in the event of his refusal, to force a sale of this large amount
of property, under circumstances calculated to insure its ruinous sacrifice.
6. The gross inadequacy of consideration given by the appellant for this large property, an effect produced by his own
fraudulent contrivances.
The ground. upon which the defendant below, the appellant
here, has rested his case, may.in substance be reduced to the
two following positions:
1. The strength of his legal title acquired under the execution and sale, and under the conveyance. from the sherifg
Vhieh execution, sale, and conveyance, he alleges were fair,
alid not fraudulent; and
'"2. -That sacrifices of land in the section of the State in
which this sale occurred, similar to that complaimed o4 were
usual in sales under execution.

808

SUPREME COURT.
Byers V. urge.

With respect to the effect of the judgment at law, and of the
proceedings taken for its enforcement, it is insisted, in the
answer of the appellant, that this judgment having been
-rendered by a court of competent authority, and still remaining unreversed, neither the validity of that judgment'nor the
proceedings in virtue thereof can now be questioned.
It is true, that with respect to the regulariy of that judgment, or of any legal errors in obtaining it, this coui t or the
Circuit Court could not take cognizance, nor exercise any
appellate power for its reversal; and in any collateral attempt
at law to impeach that judgment, it must be regarded as binding and operative. But with any fraudulent conduct of parties
in obtaining a judgment, or in attempting to avail themselves
thereof, this court can regularly, .as could the Circuit Court,
take cognizance. 'Such a proceeding is within the legitimate
province of courts of equity, and constitutes an extensive
ground of their jurisdiction. The true and intrinsic character
of proceedings, as well in courts of law as rn pass, is alike
lrobe,
of
ouof
o t
u
their
real
to
and either sustain or annul them, according,
require.
character, and as the ends of justice may

reference to the conduct of the appellant, in procuring

ith
and enforcing the judgment at law, that conduct has been, b

the answer of the appellant and by the argument of his counsef,
sought to be sustained, upon the ground that, as attorney for
Matsh, the appellant had the power and the right to control
the judgment, and to carry it into effect. The power and
right thus claimed for the appellant, like every other right and
power, are bounded by rules of law and justice, and by consistency with the rights of others. So far as it was necessary
to maintain and enforce.the legitimate interests of Marsh, it
was unquestionably within the competency of his attorney to
interpose; but he could not, in pursuance of whatever he may
have fancied legitimate, or of whatever he may have deemed
judicious or promotive of advantage to his client or himself;
usurp the authority and functions of officers on whom the law•
had devolved its just administration, and by that the preservation of the rights of the citizen.
The offices of clerk and sheriff were never designed'to be mere names, nor to be engines and pretexts, to be used at the
will of any one. By what authority, then, could the appellant
assume the functions of both clerk and sheriff; tax such costs
as he deemed proper; order the seizure of property to an
amount entirely prbitrary, as his cupidity or indiscretion might
incline him, and co'mmand peremptorily the sale of the whole
subject thus illegally and rapaciously seized upon, without the
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
.Bymr v. Surge.

slightest reference to the value- of the -ubject, in comparison
with the demand to be satisfied, ahd then to become himself
the possessor of the subject thus sacrificed by his own irregular
and oppressive conduct, for a pretended consideration so.txivial
that it may be considered as nominal merely?
In justification or in excuse for this assumnption. it has been
alleged and relied on by the appellant (though the position is
by proof,)
thatto itwhom
was rendered
entirely
unsustained
by
the ignorance
of those
officers
the dutiesnecessary
of clerk
and sherif had been assigned by law; and had become a
common practice in the particular part of the country where
this proceeding occurred. If the position thus taken be true
in: fact, it rather aggr.wates than extenuates the wrong complained of, as it shows that, by the ignorance or the corruption
had
the complainant
of those oficeers of the law, the rights of
a direct interest
having

been surrendered to the mercy of one

to invade those righfs. It evinces, moreover, if true, a practice, in a profession heretofore deemed enlightened and honorable, highly calculated .to bring that profession into merited

disrepute.

Upon the question of the illegality in the sale for want of
6tice by advertisement, it has been insisted by the appellant
Y
illegality,
to such
charge
contains
the bill
thatthat
be admitted.
point can
thatrespect
as towith
proofs
no no
therefore

and

It is undoubtedly the rule in equity, as well as at law, that
that
and
with the allegations,betwill
the proofs must correspond
regarded
inapplicahle to the latter

evidence irrelevant or

as immaterial. The bill in this case is less searchingy and
this particular
been on comprehensive,
have
than it might
minutely framed
sufcienty
asrbeing
is considered

point, yet it
and as sufficienty specific at the same time, to embrace this

proofs in relation thereto.
point, and to justify
It alleges as filegal and unwarrantable the taxing of the
list and
the and
.writing
costs, the writing of the execution, the
the
leviedof on,
to be

description of the lands required
notices of sale by the appellant;- the nanner of publishing or
putting those notices and. the proceedings under them at the
sale-all as being unwarranted by law, and as having been
it was
allegations
these
out in
carried
concocted
of the. appelo
answer
The
prove. all
to fraud;
appellee
to the
competent and
and after
unfairness,
of fraud
lant--after,the
of the execution,
writing
the and
of the costs,
taxing denial
admiing a general

the descrption of the land to be levied upon, the directions of
and the preparation of ther advertisements, all by
the she
himself-next insists upon the regularity and propriety of all
these acts. Re then proceeds to aver the performance of every

810

SUPREME COURT.
Byera v. Suryd.

prerequisite of the law with respect to such sales. Aftei
enumerating these prerequisites in detail, he endeavors to
establish them by evidence. He says that the sheriff advertised the lands for twenty days in three of the most public
places in each towiiship of the county, in conformity with the
statute; and he introduces the evidence of the. sheriff and of
other witnesses to maintain these averments.
But in contravention of these.statements are, first, the admission of the appellant that he himself, and not the sheriff, prepared the notices of sale; and, secondly, the evidence of the
sheriff introduced and relied on by the appellant, so far from
showing a compliance with the requisites of the law, establishes
the fact that these were violated and disregarded; for the sheriff declares that he took the list and the description of the
property, and the notices prepared by the appellant; and this
officer admits that he did not put up advertisements, either in
number or locality, as requiredby law, nor could he swear to
such a proceeding by him. He says it was his practice to set
up advertisements in places in which it was convenient for him
to do so, and to hand over other notices to persons in whom
he had confidence.
Here, then, is proof, supplied by the appellant, that the law had
not been complied with. The acts of an official deputy are
evidence of the acts of his principal, and are binding on all
who fall within the legal scope of those acts. Bit it is not
perceived how the rights of suitors can be at all dependent
upon the unofficial and individual confidence of one officer,
even when that confidence may not have been misplaced. In
this case, there is no proof that it ha-.been fulfilled; for no
person shows that the notices had been in fact put up and published according to the statute. The mere belief, either of the
sheriff or any other person, can have- no operation where, the
law calls for full legal proof.
The objections here stated cannot be deemed narrow or
technical,with reference to a case like the present-a case presenting no claim to favor either in law or in equity; a case in
which the respondent was and is bound to pursue the hair line
of legai and formal strictness, and from which, if he deviate in
never so small a degree, he is doomed to fE"J. The conduct
of the defendant, in all that he has done himself, and in all that
he has exacted of others, is essentially important ,n this case
as evidence of the quo animo with which this transaction was.
begun, prosecuted, and consummated. Another pregnant
proof of the design of the-appellant to grasp and to retain what
no principle of liberality or equity could warrant is the fact,
clearly established, of his refusal after the sale to accept from

DECEMBER TERM 1856.
.Byers- v. Suryet.

the appellee, for the redemption of his land so glaringly sacrificed, a sum of money considerably exceeding in amount the
judgment for costs, with all the expenses incidental to the
carrying that judgment into effect.The appellant, by his ir.
regular and unconscientious contrivances, achieved what he
conceived to be an immense speculation; and ]e determined to
avail himself of it, regardless of its injustice and ruinous consequences to the appellee.
To meet the objection made to the sale in this case, founded
on the inadequacy of the'price at whieh the land was sold, it is
insisted that inadequacy of consideration, singly, cannot amount
to proof of fraud. This position, however, is scarcely reconcilable with the qualification annexed to it by the courts;
namely, unless such inadequacy be so gross as to shock the
consciee; for this qualification implies necessarily the affirmation, that if the inadequacy be of a nature so gross as to
shock the conscience, it will amount to proof of fraud. Again,
in answer to the same objection, it is insisted, that whatever
presumption arising from inadequacy of consideration may be
permitted with respect to transactions strictly limited to vendor and vendee, no unfavorable inference from that cause is
permissible with respect to sales made under judicial process.
Certainly the facts that sales are made by the officers or ministers of the law, and under its authority, may properl5 weaken
the usual presumption arising from gross inadequacy; but to
declare that such inadequacy, connected with other facts and
circumstances evincing fraud or unfairness, could never be re garded as affecting sales under process, would be as rational as
the assertion thai process of law-could never be abusedi 'and
that the ministers of the law must necessarily be intelligent
and upright, and incapable of being ever willingly or unwittingly made the. instruments of fraud or oppression. But the
transaction now under review can with no show of-propriety.
'be tested by the single fact of inadequacy of consideration,
however gross and extraordinary that inadequacy has been.
We perceive in this transaction other ingredients that have
been mingled therewith by the appellant, Nat give to the objection of inadequacy an effect that, standiug isolated. and
alone, could not be ascribed-+o or deduced from it.
Thus, when we,,advert to fihe-irregular and extraordinary
character of the judgment procured through the agency of the
appellant-te his eagerness, that could not await the action of
the offic'er of the court--his assumption of the functions of the
clerk, in.taxing the costs, and in writing out the execution-his
preparation and delivery to the sheriff of a description and list
of the lands of the appellee, amounting to more than fourteen
-

SUPREME COURT.
Garrizon i al. v. Hemp1his Ineurance Conmpany,.

thousand acres-his requisition of a seizure of the whole of
those lands in satisfaction of the sum of thirty-nine dollars-his
inflexible demand upon the sheriff, under threats of prosecution,
to expose to sale the entire levy-his purchase of all these
lands for the sum of nine dojlars and thirteen and a half centsand his refusal after the sale and purchase to accept, in redemption of these lands so sacrificed, a sum of money tendered to
himh much more than equal to the costs, with all the expenses
incident to the judgment: when all these acts on the part of
the appellant are adverted to, they impel irresistibly-to the conclusion, that the gross inadequacy of consideration in the sale
and purchase of these lands was the premeditated result which
the proceedings bythe appellant were put in practice.to insure.
They betray that malus dolus in which the design of the appellant was conceived,'which appears to have presided over and
regulated the progress of the design from its birth to its consummation; to which design the appellant has tenaciously
clung, in the seeming expectation that it was beyond the corrective powers of law or justice.
Upon the whole case, we are constrained to view the entire
transaction impeached by the appellee as one that cannot be
sustained without the subversion of the principles and rules
either of legal or moral justice.- We accordingly.approve the
decision 'of the Circuit Court in so regarding it, and'order that
decree to be affirmed.
R. GARRISON, APPELLANTS, V.
PHIS INSURANCE COMPANY.

OLIVER AND DANIEL

THE MEm-

Where bills of lading for goods, shipped on board of a steamboat in the river Mississippi, mentioned that the carrier was not to be responsible for accidents which
happened from the "perils of the river," these words did not include fire amongst
those perils; and: the carrier was responsible for losses by fire; although the boat
was consumed without any negligence or fault of the owners, their agents, or
servants.
The evidence of a witness was not admissible, who offered to testify that he had
not known a case where the omission of the word "fire," in the exceptions mentioned in the bill of lading, was considered to give a claim against the boat on
account of a loss Sy fife.
There is no ambiguity which requires to be explained, and the evidence fails to
establish a usage.
An insurance company', which paid these losses, had a right to seek relief from the
owners of the boat.
This relief c6uld be sought in equity, not only upon the general principles of equity
jurisprudence, but also because, in this case, a number of shipments were joined
in the same bill, and thu a multiplicity of suits was avoided.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Missouri, sitting in equity.

