SUPREME COURT.
Garrizon i al. v. Hemp1his Ineurance Conmpany,.

thousand acres-his requisition of a seizure of the whole of
those lands in satisfaction of the sum of thirty-nine dollars-his
inflexible demand upon the sheriff, under threats of prosecution,
to expose to sale the entire levy-his purchase of all these
lands for the sum of nine dojlars and thirteen and a half centsand his refusal after the sale and purchase to accept, in redemption of these lands so sacrificed, a sum of money tendered to
himh much more than equal to the costs, with all the expenses
incident to the judgment: when all these acts on the part of
the appellant are adverted to, they impel irresistibly-to the conclusion, that the gross inadequacy of consideration in the sale
and purchase of these lands was the premeditated result which
the proceedings bythe appellant were put in practice.to insure.
They betray that malus dolus in which the design of the appellant was conceived,'which appears to have presided over and
regulated the progress of the design from its birth to its consummation; to which design the appellant has tenaciously
clung, in the seeming expectation that it was beyond the corrective powers of law or justice.
Upon the whole case, we are constrained to view the entire
transaction impeached by the appellee as one that cannot be
sustained without the subversion of the principles and rules
either of legal or moral justice.- We accordingly.approve the
decision 'of the Circuit Court in so regarding it, and'order that
decree to be affirmed.
R. GARRISON, APPELLANTS, V.
PHIS INSURANCE COMPANY.

OLIVER AND DANIEL

THE MEm-

Where bills of lading for goods, shipped on board of a steamboat in the river Mississippi, mentioned that the carrier was not to be responsible for accidents which
happened from the "perils of the river," these words did not include fire amongst
those perils; and: the carrier was responsible for losses by fire; although the boat
was consumed without any negligence or fault of the owners, their agents, or
servants.
The evidence of a witness was not admissible, who offered to testify that he had
not known a case where the omission of the word "fire," in the exceptions mentioned in the bill of lading, was considered to give a claim against the boat on
account of a loss Sy fife.
There is no ambiguity which requires to be explained, and the evidence fails to
establish a usage.
An insurance company', which paid these losses, had a right to seek relief from the
owners of the boat.
This relief c6uld be sought in equity, not only upon the general principles of equity
jurisprudence, but also because, in this case, a number of shipments were joined
in the same bill, and thu a multiplicity of suits was avoided.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Missouri, sitting in equity.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

813

Garrison et a. v. Memphis Insurance Company.

The bill was filed by the Memphis Insurance Company, a
corporation created by the laws of Tennessee, and whose stockholders were citizens thereof, against the owners of the steamboat Convoy. In February, 1849, they received on board of
their boat a ]arge amount of cotton, to be carried from Memphi to New Orleans. The boat and cargo were destroyed by
fire on the downward voyage, without any fault or negligence
of the owners, their agents, or servants. The insurance company-paid the owners of the cotton the Amounts of their several
insurances, and then filed this bill to recover such sums from
the owners of the boat. The facts are more particularly stated
in the opinion of the court. The Circuit Court held the owners of the boat liable, and rendered a decree against them for
the amounts iaid by the insurance company.
There were fifteen different bills of lading mentioned in the
bill. The first five, covering three hundred and eighty-eight
bales of cotton, stipulated for the delivery at New Orleans, "the
dangers of the river only excepted." In the sixth, seventh,
and eighth, covering one hundred and twenty-one bales, "the
dangers of the river and unavoidable accidents only" are excepted. In the ninth, fourteenth, and fifteenth, covering two
hundred and seventy-four bales, "the unavoidable dangers of
the river and fire only" are excepted; and in the tenth,
eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth, "the dangers. of the river
and fire odly" are,, ecepted. The ground upon which the
owners of the boat Ware claimed to be liable upon those bills
of lading, where "fire" was excepted, was, that the fire arose
from carelessness. ".But in the progress of the trial this branch
of the claim was given up, and the claim of the plaintifff was
declared to rest upon the construction to be given to the bills
of lading, in which the vessel was merely exempted from "the
dangers of the river," or "the dangers of the river and unavoidable accidents."
The Circuit Couit decreed that the owners of the boat were
liable upon those bills of lading which contained the exception
only of "the dangers of the river," being the first five mentioned in the bill, and dismisied the bill as to the relief sought
in respect to the bills of lading in -which "the dangers of the
river and unavoidable accidents" are excepted, being the sixth,
seventh, and eighth, mentioned in the bill. The owners of
the boat appealed to this court.
. The case was argued by Afr. wving for the appellants,
and
Mr. Geyer for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMIPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.

314

SUPREME COURT.
Garrison et al. v. Mempzi

Insurance Company.

The appellee filed a bill in the Circuit Court against the
appellants, the owners of the steamboat Convoy, a vessel
formerly employed in the navigation of the Mississippi river,
and which, in 1849, was consumed by fire, with a cargo of
cotton.
The appellee is an insurance corporation of Memphis, Tennessee, and insured eleven hundred and fifty-two bales of the
cotton belonging to this cargo from loss by fire; this insurance
was effected upoi fifteen distinct parcels, and shipped mostly
from Teunessee to a number of consignees in New Orleans.
The company adjusted the losses with the assured on their
policies, and bring this suit for reimbursement, by enforcing
the -claims of the shippers against the owners. These answer
the bill by a denial of their legal responsibility for the loss.
They maititain that fire is one of the perils of the river Iississippi; that all the bills of lading that exempt the carrier from
a loss by'perils of the river, imply fire as one of those perils;
that the variations in the bills of lading, some including "fire,"
and "unavoidable accidents" as well as fire, are referable to
the fact that they are preferred by different shippers, who have
different forms for expressing the same legal consequence.
That they all understand that a carrier is exempt from a liability for fire on a bill of lading exonerating him from the risks
of the river.
It was admitted on the hearing that the boat was consumed,
without any negligence or fault of the owners, their agents, or
servants. The Circuit Court excused the owners from losses,
where the bills of lading contained an exception of fire or unavoidable accidents, but condemned them on the others, to
satisfy the demand of the company.
-It cannot be denied that the ajpellants are respongible, according to the strictness of the common-law rule determining
the carrier's liability, unless an accidental fire is one of the
exceptions included in the term "perils of the river." These
words include risks arising from natural accidents peculiar to
the river, which do not happen by the intervention of man,
nor are to be prevented by human prudence; and have been
extended to comprehend losses arising from some irresistible
force or overwhelming power which no ordinary skill could
anticipate or evade. (Jonbs v. Pitcher, 3 S. and P., 136; 4
Yerg., 48; 5 Yerg., 82; Schooner Reeside, 2 Sum., 568.)
They exonerate a carriet from a liability for a loss arising
from an attack of pirates, or from a collision of ships, when
there is no negligence or fault on the part of the master and
crew. Latterly, the courts have shown an indisposition to extend the comprehension of these words. 'The destruction of a

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Garrion ef al. v. Alemyphis

1815

.Tnurance Company.

vessel by worms at sea is not accounted a loss by the perils of
the sea; nor was a damage from bilging,.arising in consequence
of the insufficiency of tackle for getting her from the dock;
nor was damage occasioned to a vessel by her props being carried away by the tide while she was undergoing repairs on the
beach, excused, as falling within that exception. In Laveroni
v. Drury, (8 Ex. R., 166,) a question arose whether a damage
to a cargo of cheese, occasioned by rats, was within the exception of the dangers or accidents of the sea and navigation; and
the Continental and American authorities were cited to. the
Barons of the Exchequer, to show that it was, and that the
carrier was excused, he having taken the usual and proper
precautions against them.
* That court decided otherwise, and say "the exception incIfides -only a danger or accident of the sea or navigation,
properly-so called, (viz: one caused by the violence of the
winds and waves, a vis major, acting upon a seaworthy and
substantial ship,) and does not cover damage by rats, which is
a kind of destruction not peculiar to the sea or navigation, or
arising directly from it, but one to which such a commodity as
cheese is equally liable in a warehouse on land as in a ship at
sea." And the court conclude "that the liability of the master and, owner of a general ship is prima faci that of a common carrier; but that his responsibility may be either enlarged
or qualified by the terms of the bill of lading, if there be one;
and that the question, whether the defendant is liable or not,
is to be ascertained by this document when it exists." The
principle of these cases establishes a liability against a carrier
for a loss by fire arising from other'than a natural cause,
whether occurring on a steamboat accidentally, or communicated from another vessel or from the shore; and the fact that
fire produces the motive power of the boat does not affect the
case. (New J.S. N. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How., 344, 381;
Hale v. N. J. S. N. Co., 15 Conn., 539; Singleton v. Hilliard,
1 Strab., 203; Gilmore v. Carman, 1 S. and N., 279.)
In this suit, a.witness was introduced, who claims to have
been long familiar with the usages of the navigation and the
river insurance risks of the Mississippi, and competent to
testify in. reference to the perils of that river. He says, "those
are, sinking, by coming in collision with rocks, snags, or other
boats or vessels, and fire; that the most common form of bills
of lading contains the exceptions, perils of the river and fire;
but that in many instances the word fire is omitted, and he has
not known an instance where the want of that word has created
a difficuly in adjusting a loss, or was considered to give a claim
against a boat on account of a loss by fire." The first inquiry

BIG

SUPREME COURT.
Garrison et al. v. Memphis Insurance Company.

is, whether this evidence is admissible. In mercantile contracts, evidence is admissible to prove that the words in which
the particular contract is expressed, in the particular trade to
which the contract refers, are used in a peculiar sense, and different from that which they ordinarily import, and to annex
incidents to written contracts, in respect to which they are
silent, but which both parties probably contemplated, because
usual in such contracts.
But although it is competent to explain what is ambiguous,
and to introduce what is omitted, because sanctioned by usage,
it is not compefent to vary or contradict the terms of the contract. The exceptions in the bills of lading under consideration have been in use in policies of insurance and contracts of
affreightmnent for a long period, and have acquired a distinct
signification in the customs- of merchants, and the opinions of
professional men and courts. It would be surprising if any
particular or artificial meaning was attached to them in the
customs of the Mississippi river, contrary to, or distinguishable
from, that which existed elsewhere in the community of shippers and merchants. It this case, the evidence fails to estabish any peculiar sense of these words, as appropriate to the
locality where the parties to this contract reside and made
their contract. The evidence rather serves to show that the
witness did not recognise the liability of a carrier, as it exists
in the common.law,-and was ready to acquit him of responsibility for losses to which he did not contribute, by the *negli.
gence or fault either of himself or his agents. In Turney v.
Wilson, (7 Yerger, 840)-a case decided in the State from
which the shipments described in the bill were chiefly madeevidence was offered to show there was an implied contract
recognised in the usages of shippers and merchants, which had
prevailed from the first settlement of the country, to exempt
the carrier from losses, except those proceedijng from negligence or dishonesty to explain or construe a bill of lading of
the common form. The court decided, that the dangers of
the river were such as could not have been prevented by human skill and foresight, and were incident to river navigation.
That all evidence was irrelevant that did not show that the
loss was occasioned by the act of God, the enemies of the
country, or dangers of the river; that the custom could not
affect or in anywise alter the written contract of the parties, as
contained in the bill of lading, as the language had a definite
legal meaning which this custom could not change. - A similar
question arose in the case of the Schooner Reeside, (2 Sum.,
568,) where Justice Story condemns, in pointed language, the
habit of admitting loose and inconclusive usages and customs-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Garrion et al. v.

817

2fempU Inaurance Company.

"to outweigh the well-known and well-settled principles of
law." And in Rogers v. Mechanics' Insurance Co., (1 Story,
601,) he denies the authority of a usage of a particular port, in
a particular trade, to limit or control or qualify the language
of
mercantile contracts, such as a policy of insurance. A
usage such as is pleaded in this suit, if existing, must be notoin its application
have beenItuniform
certin, and
andestablished
riouslong
in practice.
niust have been exhibited
and
in the transactions of the individuals and corporations concerned, in con ducting the business of shipments, transportation,
and insurance, through the Mississippi valley.
of insurance
policies
thatrisks
established
had fire
If the evidence
that the
assumed;
among the
not desigate

there did
words "perils of the river" were used to include that risk, and

losses by fire had been uniformly settled under that clause in
made and
beenusages
had
affreightment
thatoncontracts
the policy;
had
these
that
the sameofconditions;
adjusted

losses
ofessional and judicial opinon in
received the sanction
the States bordering that river-the cause of the appellants
would have presented different considerations. The record
contains nothing to exempt them from the legal rule of liability, as established by the common law. Seven of the bills of
lading produced contain the excet on, "perils of th rivr ad
fire;" threeothers add to the perils of the river; "unavoidable
accidents;" and in these cases the Circuit Court exonerated
the appellants from responsibility.
The appellants further contend that the insurance company
is not subrogated to the claims of the shippers of the cotton,
whose losses have been adjusted on their policies of insurance;
or, if this is so, still their suit should have been at law, in the
nami of the assured-the remedy being adequate and complete. In Randell v. Cochran, (1 Vesey, sen., 98,) the chanthe
cellor replied to a similar objection, "rthat the plaintiff had
plainest equity that could be." The person originally sustaining the loss was theowner; but, after satisfaction made to him,
cim.,
2p7,) an
the insurer. Andin White v. Dabinson, (14
assured
the
by
recovered
ajudgment
on
lien
a
insurer enforced
for a loss, where the loss had been partiallysettled by him, on
the policy. (Monticello v. Morrison, 17 How., 152.) These
may apply to equity whenever
ases also show that an insurer
exercise of his legal remedy in the

-an impediment exists to the
-b
name of the assured. '
The bill discloses f_.een different contracts of af,eightmen,
.ofra-snilar character, which have been-adjusted by the appellees, and-which form the subject of this suit.
They have been joined in the same bill, and much incon-

818

SUPREME COURT.
Commercial .Mutuo. Marine In3urance Co. v. Union Mutual 1urance Co.

venience and vexation have been prevented. Without further
inquiry, we think a sufficient ground for a resort to equity is
disclosed.
Decree affirmed.

THE COMMERCIAL MUTUAL MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY, APPELLANTS, v. THE UNION MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK.
Where application for reinsurance, was made on Saturday, upon certain terms,
which were declined, and other terms demanded, and on Monday these last-mentioned tefms were accepted by the applicant, and assented to by the president,
but the policy not made out, because Monday was a holyday, the agreement to
issue the policy must be considered as legally binding. '
The law of Massachusetts is, that although insurance companies can make valid
policies only when attested by the signatures of the president and secretary, yet
they can make agreements to issue policies in a less formal mode.
By the commoh law, a promise for a valuable consideration to make a policy is not
required to be in writing, and there is no statute in Massachusetts which is inconsistent with this doctrine.
Where the power of .the president to make contracts for insurance is not denied in
the answer, or made a point in issue in the court below, it is sufficient to bind
the company if the other party shows that such had been the practice, and theteby an-idea held out to the public that the president had such power.
It is not essential to the existence of a binding contract to make insurance, that a
premium note should have been actually signed and delivered.

THIs was an appeal .from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts, sitting in equity.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by 3fr. Gurtds for the appellants, and
Mr. Goodrich for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Massachusetts, in a suit in
equity, to compel the specific performance of a contract to
make reinsurance on the ship Great Republic. The Circuit
Court made a decree in favor of the complainants, and the respondents appealed.
It appears that the complainants, a corporation established
in New York, having made insurance of the ship Great Republic to a large amount, authorized Charles W. Storey, at
Boston, to apply for. and obtain from either of the insurance
companies there reinsurance to the extent of ten thousand dollars. Pursuant to this' authority, on the 24th December, 1853,
Mr. Storey made application to the president of the defendant

