DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

28

RzU v. Reabury et al.

companies in Boston have similar charters, and the same kind
of officers to conduct their business, we think this is competent
evidence, that presidents of such insurance companies in that
city are generally held out to the public as having the authorityto
act in this manner. And Upoh a point not put in issue in the
record, and on which no more than. formal proof ought to be
demanded, we hold this evidence sufficient. (Fleckner v. The
Bank of the United States, 3. Whea., 860; Minor v. The Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria, 1 Peters, 46.)
The fair inference is, that if the general authority of the
president to contract for the corporation had been put in issue,
it could have been shown, by the most plenary proof, that the
presidents of insurance companies in the city of Boston are
generally held out to the public by those companies as their
agents, empowered. to receive and assent, either orally or in
writing, to proposals for insurance, and to bind their principals
by such assent.
Nor do we deem it essential to the existence of a binding
contract to make insurance, that a premium note should havd
been actually signed and delivered. The promise of the plaintiffs to give a note for the premium was a sufficient consideration for the promise to make a policy. It is admitted, that the
usage is to deliver the note when the policy is halided to the
assured. If the defendants had tendered the policy, we have
no doubt an action for not delivering the premium note would
have at once lain against the plaintiffs; and we think there
was a mutual right on their part, after a tender of the note, to
maintain an action for non-delivery of the policy. In Tayloe
v. The Mutual Fire Ins. Co., (9 How., 390,) it was held that a
bill in equity for the specific performance of a contract for a
policy could be maintained. And it being admitted that in
this case the defendants would be liable as for a total loss on
the policy, if issued in conformity with the contract, no further
question remained to be tried, and it was proper to decree the
payment of the money, which would have been payable on the
policy, if it had been issued.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

EDWARD FIELD, P

INTIFF IN ERROR, V. PARDO

G. SEA-

BURY ET AL.
When a grant or patent for land, or legislative confirmation of titles to land, has
been given by the sovereignty or legislative authority only having the right to
make it, without any provision having been made, in the patent or by the law,

824

SUPREME COURT.
.Fie d v. Seabury et at.

to inquire into its fairness between the grantor and grantee, or between third
parties and the grantee, a third party cannot raise, in ejectment, the question of
fraud as between the grantor and grantee.
A bill in equity lies to set aside letters patent obtained by fraud, but only between
the sovereignty making the grant and the grantee.
Such a patent or grant cannot be collaterally avoided at law for fraud.
The act of March 26, 1851, (California Laws, 764,) makes a grant of all lands of
the kind within the limits mentioned in it which had been sold or granted by
any alcalde of the city of San Francisco, and confirmed by the ayuntamiento or
town or city council thereof, and also registered or recorded in some book of
record which was at the date of the act in the office or custody or control of the
recorder of the county of San Francisco, on or before the third day of April, one
thousand eight hundred and fifty.
The registry of an alcalde grant, in the manner and within the time mentioned in
the act, is essential to its confirmation under the act. In that particular, the
grant under which the plaintiff in this suit claimed, is deficient. The defendants
brought themselves by their documentary evidence within the confirming act of
March 26, 1852.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of California.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
It was arg.ed at December term, 1855, by .Mr. Lockwood for
the plaintifl in error, and Mr. Holladay for the defendants, and
held under a curia advisare vult until the present term.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of-the court.
This case has been brought to this court by writ of error
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
California.
The circumstances disclosed by the record, and the documentary evidence introduced by the parties in support of their
respective rights to the land in controversy, make an extended
statement necessary, in order that the points decided may be
understood.
The defendant in error brought into the Circuit Court an
action of ejectment against Wyman and others, tenants of the
plaintiff in error, to recover the possession of lot No. 464, it
being a subdivision of a lot of one hundred varas square, numbered 456, of the San Francisco beach and water lots. Field,
the plaintiff in error, was admitted to defend, and a verdict
having been given for the plaintiffs below, it was agreed by a
stipulation in the record that this writ of error shoufd be prosecuted by Field alone, without'joining the other defendants.
Both parties claimed title under an act of the Legislature of
California, passed the 26th March, 1851, entitled "An act to
provide for the disposition of certain property of the State of
California," the provisions of which, so far as they relate to
this cause, are as follows:

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
- l

325

v. Sea&uy d A.

The first section of the act describes the land to be 'disosed
of; and the second section-is, that "the use and occupation of
all the land described in the first section of the act is hereby
granted to the city of San Francisco for the term of ninetynine years from the date of this act, except as hereinafter provided; all the lands mentioned in the first sqction of this act,
which have been sold by authority of the ayuntamiento, or
town or city council, or by any alcalde of the said town or city,
at public auction, in accordance with the terms of the grant
known as Kearney's grant to the city of San Francisco, or
which have been sold or granted by any alcalde of the said
city of San Francisco, and confimed by the ayuntamiento, or
town or city council thereof; and also registered or recorded in
some book of record now in the office or custody or control of the recorder of the county of San -Francisco,on or before the third daylof
.April, A. D. one thousand eight hundred andfifty, shall be and the
same are hereby granted and confirmed to the purchaseror purchaser8
or grantees aforesaid, by the State relinquishing the use and occulation of the same and her interests therein to the said purchasers or
grantees, ahd each of them, their heirs and assigns, or any person or
persons holding under them, for the term of ninety-nine years from
and after the passageof this act."
S.c. 3. "That the original deed, or other written or printed
instrument of conveyance, by which any of the lands mentioned
in the first section of this act were conveyed or granted by such
common council, ayuntamiento, or alcalde, and in case of. its
loss, or not being within the control of the party, then a record
copy thereof, or a record copy of the.material portion thereot
properly authenticated, may be read in evidence in any court
of justice in this State, upon the trial of any cause in which
the contents may be important to be proved, and shall be prima
faci evidence of title and possession, to enable the plaintiff to
recover the possession of the land so granted."
Kearney's grant mentioned in the act was read in evidence
at the*trial by the plaintiffs in the action; it is dated March
10th, 1847, and is as follows:
"I, Brigadier General S. W. Kearney, Governor of Californi, by virtue of authority in me vested by the President of
the United States of America, do hereby grant, convey, and
release, unto the town of San Francisco, the people or corporate authorities thereof, all the right, titie, and&interest thereof,
of the Government of the United States, and of the Territory
bf California, in and to the beach and water lots on the east
front of said town of San Francisco, including between thb
points known as the Rincon and Fort Montgomery, excepting
such lots as may be selected for the use of the General- Gov-

326

SUPREME COURT.
1"Yld v. Sury et al.

ernment by the senior cfficers of the army hnd navy now there,
provided the-said ground hereby ceded shall be divided into
lots, and sold by -public auction to the highest bidders, after
three months' notice proviously given. The proceeds of said
sale to be for the benefit of the town of San Francisco."
It was agreed by the parties at the trial that the lot sued for
is included in the first section of the act of March 26, 1851,
already cited, and also within the locality of the Kearney
grant; that it is no part -of any Government reservation; and
that on the 9th of September, 1850, when California was admitted as a State into the Union, the lot was below high-water
mark.
In order to show themselves entitled to the lot in question
under the second section of the act cited, the plaintifli below
produced the following documents:
1. A grant by John W. Geary, first alcalae of San Francisco,
to Thomas Sprague, dated January 3d, 1850, reciting the Kearney grant, calling it a "decree," and that by virtue thereof,
and by direction of the ayuntamiento, a certain portion of said
ground, duly divided into lots as aforesaid, after notice, as required by the "decree" or grant, had been exposed to sale at
public auction, in conformity with it, on the 3d day of January,
1850; and that one of the lots, numbered on the map 464, had
been sold to Thomas Sprague for $1,700, for which he had
paid in cash $425, and had obliged himself to pay the sum of
$1,275 in three equal instalments, on the 3d of April, 3d of
July, and the 3d of October; that Sprague then received a
grant for the lot to him, his heirs and assigns, forever, of all
the estate that the town of San Francisco had in the same, as
fully as the same was held and possessed by it, subject to a
proviso that the grant was to be void for failure to pay the
instalments.
The foregoing document or grant was not recorded or registered, nor was any evidence given that three months' notice
of the sale had been given, other than the recitals in the grant.
2. The plaintiff introduced a deed from Sprague to Seabury,
Gifford, and one Horace Gushee, dated May 17, 1850, conveying to them in fee all his right and title to the lot sued for,
and also another lot, No. 450, for the sum of $4,000, with a
provision that they should pay $1,560 of the instalments payable to the town.
The plaintiffs then introduced a deed from Horace Gushee
to the plaintiff Parker, conveying to Parker in fee all his right
and title to the water lot No. 464, for the consideration of $100,
which was dated April 20th, 1855.
Receipts by the city officers for three of the instalments of

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

32T

ild v. Seabury el al.

the purchase-money, dated the 3d April, 3d July, and 3d October, were endorsed upon the grant.
The plaintiffs then rested their case upon the foregoing evidence.
Two grounds of defence were relied upon by the defendants:
First, that the Geary grant was not within the act of March 26,
1851, for want of the notice of sale required by the Kearney
grant; and also that it had never been registered and recorded,
as the act required, in some book of record now in the office
now in the custody or control of the recorder of the county of
San Franisco, on or before the third day of April, one thousand
eight hundred and fity. Second, that the defendants and
those under whom they claimed had a good title to the premises under the provisions of the act of March 26, 1851. They
also relied upon a possession of the premises for more than
five years prior to the institution of the suit. To prove their
title, the defendants gave in evidence the following documents:
1st. A grant of the lot one hundred varas square, (of which
the lot in question was a subdivision,) dated September 25th,
1848, by Leavenworth, alcalde of San Francisco, to Parker,
upon the" petition of the latter, both written on the same sheet,

as follows:
"To T. N. Leavenworth, Alcalde and Chief Jifagistrate,districtSan
Francisco:
"Your petitioner, the undersigned, a citizen of Californi,%
respectfully prays the grant of a title to a certain lot of land in
the vicinity of the town of San Francisco, containing one hundred varas square, and bounded on the north by Washington
street, on the west by a street dividing said lot from the beach
and water survey, on the south by Clay street, and on the east
by unsurveyed land, and numbered on the plan marked on
page one (1) of district records as four hundred and fifty-six
(456.)

WILLIAM 0. PARKER."

On the same day the grant was made, as follows:
"TERRITORY

OF CALIFORNIA,

"District of San Francisco, iSqpt. 25, A. -D. 1848.
"Know all men by these presents, that William C. Parker
has presented the foregoing petition for a grant of land in the
vicinity of the town of San Francisco, as therein described;
therefore I, the undersigned, alcalde and magistrate of the
district of San Francisco, in Upper California, do bereby give,
and grant, and convey, unto the said William C. Parker, his

328

SUPREME COURT.
Field v. Seabury et al.

heirs and assigns, forever, the lot of ground as set forth in the
petition, by a good and sufficient title, in consonance with the
established customs and regulations, being one hundred varas
square, lying and being situdted in the eastern vicinity of San
Francisco, and outside the limits of the water-lot survey.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, as alcalde and chief magistrate of the district aforesaid.
"Done at San Francisco, the day and year above written.
'"T. Mvi. LEAVENWORTH.
"Recorded in the alcalde's office, in book F of land titles,
on page number 18i at 10i o'clock, A. M., November 28, 1849.
A. BOWMAN, Beg. Cl'k."
"f0ce .irst Alcalde.
Then the defendants called Parker as a witness, to prove
the execution of the grant in the manner and at the time as
has been just stated, producing at the same time a deed from
Parker to Leavenworth, dated the 26th September, 1848, and
Parker certified it had been executed.by him.
It was also proved that Leavenworth conveyed the premises
to George W. Wright, by deed dated the 1st Detember, 1849.
Wright conveyed one undivided half of the lot in fee to Charles
T. Botts, and the other undivided half of the same to Edward
Field, the now plaintiff in error, except two lots or subdivisions
of the same, numbered 467 and 468. A deed from Botts, dated
1st October, 1852, to Joseph C. Palmer and Wright, conveying
to them in fee the one undivided half of said lot, except the
subdivisiohs of it 467 and 468, for the consideration of $40,000,
reciting the premises conveyed to be ten water lots, and that
Botts N[erived title through the deed from Wright to him; and
Palmer then conveyed the last-mentioned premises as they
held them to Field, the plaintiff in error, for $75,000, without
any recital of the preceding conveyances, and the same was
recorded on the 12th January, 1858, the day of the execution
of the deed. It is as well to remark, that all of the deeds just
mentioned were in the county recorder's office. It was also
agreed by the parties, in writing, that the original defendants
in the action were in possession of the premises under leases
from Field, the plaintiff in error, the production of the leases
being dispensed with.
The defendants also gave in evidence book B of the district
records, page 1, kept in the alcalde's office, and as such turned
over to the recorder of the county of San Francisco, upon the
organization of that office in May, 1850, to prove from it that
there had been a certificate of the Leavenworth conveyance of
the land to Parker, contemporary with the execution of it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

829

-idd v. Scabury et al.

The authenticity of the book B was proved by the testimony of
witnesses who bad been connected with the office of the alcalde,
and afterwards with the office of the recorder of the county.
Other testimony was also introduced by the defendants, of
another book, F, kept by Alcalde Geary, the predecessor of
Leavenworth, in which grants issued by his predecessor were
recorded at length, which was turned over to the county recorder at the same time with book B, in which there was a
literal transcript of Parker's original petition and Leavenworth's grant, as they have been already recited.
The defendants also gave in evidence a resolution of the
ayuntamiento or town council of San Francisco, of the 11th
October, 1848, confirming the grants of Leavenworth to several parcels of land adjacent to the town, on the ground that
Leavenworth had made them for the purpose of raising funds
to defray the necessary expenses of the town and district. A
deed from the board of California land commissioners, actihg
under the act of May 18, 1853, by which-they were authorized
to sell the interest of the State in the San Francisco-beach and
water-lot property, was also put in evidence by the defendants,
which conveyed in fee to Joseph Palmer and Edward C. Jones
all the right, title, and interest, of the State of California in
the aforesaid ten water lots, for the consideration of $1,425.
It was also proved that Palmer, Cook, & Co., of which Palmer,
Wright, and Jones, were members, commenced improving the
lot in May, 1850, more than five years before the commencement of the suit, which was on the 7th June, 1855, and that
they shortly afterwards leased it to one Gordon, who erected
on it valuable improvements; and that they, and others claiming under them, had ever since occupied the premises.
A resolution of the town council, passed on the 5th October,
1849, requesting the alcalde to advertise the sale at the earliest
moment, was also put in proof by the defendants, to show that
the Geary grant of January 7, 1850, had been made without
three months' notice of the sale having been iven. Then, at
this stage of the trial, the plaintiffs were permitted to discredit
the fact that Leavenworth's grant to Parker had been recorded,
as has been stated, by showing that there had been mistakes
in recording grants in the book of records, and that there were
several entries in the book purporting to be copies of grants
by Leavenworth in 1849, after he was out of office, which the
court permitted to be done-the defendants objecting-on the
ground that, by reading from the book the grant to Parker,
the defendants had made the entire book evidence; and that
the plainliffs might read other entries in it, without any proof that the
grants had been issued, or in fact dated, in the year 1849. The

830

SUPREME COURT.
Field v. Seabury et at.

court also permitted Parker, the original grantee of Leavenworth, to be examined as a witness; and also Clark, a member
of the town council, to prove that there had been fraud in the
issue and confirmation of the Leavenworth grant. And upon
the defendants objecting to the admissibility of such evidence,.
the court overruled their objection, saying "that the act of
March 26, 1851, under which the plaintiffs and defendants
claimed to have a title to the premises in dispute, was intended
to confirm only honest titles, and that the plaintiff might impeach the Leavenworth grant to Parker, and the confirmation
of it by the town council, by showing fraud." And under this
ruling of the court, the plaintiffs were permitted to read as
evidence from. the books of records B and F, and from other
books purporting to be minutes of grants made by Leavenworth to one Clark, to Jones and Buchelin, prior to October
11, 1848, intending to show by them that the members of the
council who voted for the resolution of that date held divers
grants which were confirmed by it, and had therefore acted
audulently. And that was done without any proof of identity between the supposed grantees and other members of
council, and without producing any originals of the supposed
grants, or proving that any such grants were made. The witnesses, however, introduced to prove fraud in the issue of the
ILeavenworth grant, denied positively that it existed.
We do not think a more extended statement from the record necessary for the conclusion at which we have arrived in
this case. That which has been given is sufficient for the construction of the act of March 26, 1851, under which both parties claim the premises in dispute, and for the decision of the
exception taken by the defendants to the ruling of the court
in respect to the admissibility of witnesses to prove that Leavenworth had practised a fraud in issuing a grant to Parker for
the lot 456.
It is admitted, that neither the plaintiff nor defendant could
claim a title to any part of that lot under these alcalde, grants,
unless they can be brought within the act of March 26, 1851.
(-Law of California, 764.) The court below said, in its charge
to the jury, that neither of the alcaldes had any power to grant
land, and that no estate passed by either of their grants.
These documents are only to be considered as ear-marks to
designate the legislative grantees, who were intended to take
.under the act of March 26, 1851. Both parties in the suit
bringing themselves within the classes designated, the defendants,, being in possession, as has been ascertained by the evidence,
would on principles of law be entitled to a verdict. In this the court
was correct; and its first obligation, when the case was sub-

DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.

331

Field T. &abury et al.

mitted to the jury, was to dgtermine, by its construction of the
act, whether both parties or either of them had, by their documentary evidence, been brought within the classes of grantees
designated by the act. This, however, it did not do; but leaving that question undecided, after permitting the plaintiffs to
introduce witnesses to prove that the Leavenworth grant had
been fraudulently issued by him, it submitted the case to the
jury, making it not only competent to find the fact of fraud,
but constituting the jurors judges of the legal question, whether
the plaintiff who had alleged the fraud was within the classes
of grantees which the Legislature meant to confirm, and that
the defendant's alcalde grant was not comprehended by the
legislative act-thus giving to a party who might not be able
to claim a title under the act a chance, by the verdict of a
jury, to dispossess another, also without a title under it, who
had just been said by the court, in a controversy between them
for the land, would be entitled to a verdict in virtue of his being
in possession of it. If the plaintiff had no title under the act,
though the defendant also was without one, the former could
have no complaint against him, nor any legal right to recover
in ejectment land of which the defendant was in possession.
The court, in this part of its ruling, made the charge of fraud
the turning-point in the case, and not the right of title to the
premises, by the construction of the act under which both parties claimed a title, and by which it had said either could only
claim. The result was, the jury, having been so instructed,
found a verdict for the plaintiff upon the question of fraud,
without any instruction in any part of its charge that he claimed a title from an alcalde's grant, which was within the act of
March 26, 1851, or that the defendant was without one, unless
it be the court's intimation to the jury that the defendant
might be considered as having no title under the act, if they
should find that there had been fraud in the issue of his alcalde grant, or in the confirmation of it. The court's construction of the rights of the parties under the act should have
been independent of the question of fraud. The evidence
which it allowed to be given of it was inadmissible, and the
finding of the jury is of 4o weight in the case. Fraud, as it is
sometimes said, "vitiates every act "-correctly, too, when
properly applied to the subject-matter in controversy, and to
the parties in it, and in a proper forum. For instance, as when
one of them charges the other with an actual fraud; or -when
one of them, by his omission to do an act in time, which he
ought to have done, as in not having recorded a deed, the
other, without any knowledge of its existence, becomes in good
faith a purchaser of the same property; in such a case a claim,

SUPREME COURT.
_YTdd v. &abry et al.

under the unregistered deed, is said to be fraudulent and void
against a subsequent bona flde purchaser without notice. But
in that case, the latter zains a legal preference by the court's
construction of the registry act, under which the first deed
ought to have been recorded, and, as a matter of law, so instructs the jury. But these cases are not applicable to the
case in hand. Those are cases where the actual or constructive fraud grows out of the conduct of parties directly to each
other, or is consequential from such conduct.
This case involves directly the point whether, when a grant
or patent for land, or legislative confirmation of titles to land,
has been given by the sovereignty or legislative authority only
having the right to make it, without any provision having
been made in the patent or by the law to inquire into its fairness as between the grantor and grantee, or between third parties, a third party cannot raise in ejectment the question of
fraud as between the grantor and grantee, and thus look beyond the patent or grant.
We are not aware that such a proceeding is permitted in
any of the courts of law. In England, a bill in equity lies to
set aside letters patent obtained from the King by fraud, (Att.
Gen. v. Vernon, 277, 370; the same case, 2 Ch. Rep., 353,)
and it would in the United States; but it is a question exclusively between the sovereignty making the grant and the
grantee. But in neither could a patent be collaterally avoided
at law for fraud. This court has never declared it could be
done. Stoddard and Chambers (2 How., 284) does not do so,
as has been supposed. In that case, an act of Congress confirming titles, excepted cases where the land had previously
been located by any other person than the confirmee, under
any law of the United States, or had been surveyed and sold
by the United States; and this court held that a location made
on land reserved from sale by an'act of Congress, or a patent
obtained for land so reserved, was not within the exception,
and the title of the confirmee was made perfect by the act of
confirmation, and without any patent, as against the prior
patent, which was simply void; and this valid legal title enured
at once to the benefit of an assignee of the confirmee. In this
connection it must be remembered that we are speaking of
patents for land, and not of transactions between individuals,
in which it has been incidentally said, by this court, that deedl
fraudulently obtained may be collaterally avoided at law.
(Gregg v. Sayre, 8 Peters, 244; Swayzer v. Burke, 12 Peters,
:lut
we are also of the opinion that the act of March 26,
1851, to provide for the disposition of certain property of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

833

Field v. eabury et aL.

State of California, (Cal. Laws, 764,) makes a directgrant of
all lands of the kind, and within the limits mentioned in the
act, which had been sold or granted by any alcalde of the city
of San Francisco, and confirmed by the ayuntamiento, or town
or city council thereof, and also registered or recorded in some
book of record which was at -the date of the act in the office or custody or control of the recorder of the county of San Fr-ancisco, on or
before the third day of April, one thousand eight hundred and fifty.
The words of the statute are, "that all the lands mentioned in
the first section of it are hereby granted and confirmed to the
purchaser or purchasers, or grantees aforesaid, by the State relnquishing the use and occupation of the same, and -her interests therein, to the said purchasers or grantees, and each of
them, their heirs and assigns, or any person or persons holding under them, for the term of ninety-nine years from and
after the passage bf the act." This language catnot be misinterpreted. The intention of the Legislature is without
doubt, and we cannot make it otherwise by supposing any
condition than those expressed in the act; and we -also think
that the registry of an alcalde's grant, in the manner and within the time mentioned in the act, is essential to its confirmation under the act. In this particular, the Kearney grant, under which the plaintiff claimed, was deficient, and so the court
should have instructed the jury upon the prayer of the defendant, without the qualification that the entry made of it in the
district records was a registry within the meaning of the act.
We do not deem it necessary to say more in this case, than
that, in our view, the defendants have brought themselves, by
their documentary evidence, completely within the confirming
act of the 26th March, 1850, and that the court should have
so instructed the jury, as it was asked to do by their counsel.
The judgment of the court below is reversed.

EDWARD FIELD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. PARDON G. SEABURY ET AL.
The decision in the preceding case of Field v. Seabury, again affirmed.

THIS, like the preceding case, was brought up, by writ of
error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of California. It was argued in connection with the preceding case.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

834

SUPREME COURT.
Bryan et al. v. Forayth.

This case was like the preceding, and they were argued together.
For the reasons given in the first of them, the court directs
the reversal of the judgment in the court below, in this case.

WILLIAM

F.

BRYAN AND RUDOLPHUS Ro0sE, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. R OBERT FORSYTH.

By the acts of Congress passed on the 15th of May, 1820, and March 3d, 1823, provision was made, that each of the settlers in Peoria, Illinois, should be entitled
to a village lot, and the surveyor of public lands was directed to designate upon
a plat the lot confirmed to each claimant.
The act of 1823 conferred on the grantee an incipient title; and when the survey
was made and approved, by which the limits of the lot were designated, the title
then became capable of sustaining an action of ejectment, even before a patent
was issued.
In the interval between 1823 and the survey, a patent was taken out, which was
issued subject to all the rights of persons claiming under the act of 1823. This
patent was controlled by the subsequent survey.
But although it was controlled by the subsequent survey, yet the patent was a feesimple title upon its face, and sufficient to sustain a plea of the statute of limitations in Illinois, which requires that possession should be by actual residence on
the land, under a connected title in law or equity, deducible of record from the
United States, &d.
The American State Papers, published by order of Congress, may be read in evidence, in the investigation of claims to land.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Ballance and Mr. Johnson for the plaintiffs in error, and submitted on a printed argument by Mr.

Williams for the defendant.
Mr. Justice CATROI delivered the opinion of the court.
Forsyth sued Bryan and Rouse in ejectment for part of lot
Nqo. 7, in the town of Peoria, in the State of Illinois. The
action -was founded on a patent to Forsyth, from the United
States, dated the 16th day of December, 1845, which patent
was given in evidence on the trial in the Creuit Court. It was
admitted that the defendants were in possession when they
were sued, and that they held possession within the bounds of
the patent. To overcome this primafacietitle, the defendants
gave in evidence a patent from the United States to John L.
Bogardus, containing twenty-three acres, dated January 5th,
1838, which included lot No. 7. To overreach this elder patent, the plaintiff relied on an act of Congress, passed May 15,

