SUPREME COURT.
United iStates v. Brig Neurea.

This is nothing more than an agreement for a special and
limited partnership iin the business of transporting freight and
passengers between New York and San Francisco, and the
mere fact that the transportation is by sea, and not by land,
will not be sufficient to give 'the court of admiralty jurisdiction of an action for a breach of the contract. It is not one of
those to which the peculiar principles or remedies given by
the maritime law have any special application, and is the fit
subject for the jurisdiction of the common-law courts.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. THE BRIG :NEUREA, HER
-TACKLE, &C., WILLIAM KOHLER, CLAIMANT.
Where a libel for information, praying the condemnation of a vessel for violating
the passenger law of the, United States, states the offence in the words of the
Etatute, it is sufficient,

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case presented a general demurrer to the following libel
for information:
13, THE DISTRICT COUaT OF THE UNITED STATES
CALIFORNIA.

OR TuE NoRTnERN DISTRICT OP

IN ADMIRALTY.

T.o the Hon. Ogden Hfoffman, Jr., udge of the District Court of
the United States for the N'orthern District of California:
-The libel of .Samuel W. Inge, attorney of the United States
for the northern district of California, who prosecutes on behalf of the said United States against the brig Neurea, and
againsf all persons intervening for their interest therein, in a
cause of forfeiture, alleges and informs as follows:
S1.- That Richard P. Hammond, Esq., collector' of the customs for the district of San Francisco, heretofore,' to wit, on
the thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord eighteen
hundred and fifty-four, at the port of San Francisco, and
within the northern district of California, on waters that are
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden,
seized as forfeited to- the use ef the said United States the
said brig Neurea, byeing the property of' some person or peDsons tol the said attorney unknown.
2. That one Kohter, master of the said brig Neurea which
is a vessel owned wholly or in part by a subject or subjectsof

DECEMBER TERM, 1856..

93

Uniled Stute v. Brig Nrea.

the kingdom of Sweden, did on the first day of June, in the
year of our Lord eighteen hundred and fify-four, at the foreign port of Hong Kong, in China, take on board said vessel
two hundred and sixty-three passengers, which was a greater
number of passengers than in the following proportion to the
space occupied by them and appropriated for their use on
board said vessel, and unoccupied by stores or other goods not
being the personal luggageof such passengers, that is to say,
on the lower deck or platform, one passenger for every fourteen clear superficial 'feet of deck, with intent to bring said
passengers to the United, States of America, and did leave said
port with the same; and afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-sixth
ay of Agust, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and
ifty-four, did bring the -said passengers, being two hundred
and sixty-three in number; oil board the said vessel, to the said
port of San Francisco, within the jurisdiction of the United
States, and that the said passengers so taken on board of said
vessel, diid brought into the United States as aforesaid, did
exceed.the number which could be lawfully taken on board
and brought into the United States as aforesaid, as limited by
the first section of the ;ct of Congress approved February 22,
1847,. entitied "An act to regulate the carriage of passengers"
"in merchant 4essels," to the number of twenty in the whole,
in violation of the act of Congress of the United States in such
cases made and provided, and that by force and virtue of the
said--acts of Congress, in such case made and provided, the
said vessel- became and is forfeited to the use of the said
United States.
And the-said attorney saith, that by reason of all and singular the premises aforesaid, ahd by force of the statute in such
case made and provided, the aforementioned vessel became
and is forfeited to tihe use of the said United States.
Lastly, that all and singular the premises aforesaid are true,
-and within -the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States.and of this court.
. Wherefore .the said attorney prays the usual process and
monition of this court in this behalf"to be made, and that all
-persons interested in the said vessel may be cited in general
.and spe6ial. to -answer the'-premises, and all due proceedings
'being h94 that the said vessel ma be, for the caudes aforesaid -and other appearing, be .condemned by the definitive
-sentence and decree 'of this court, as forfeited to the use of
the -said"United States,- according to the form of the statute of
,the-said Uitil States in such case made and provided.
'" he act of-CongreMa -referred to will be found in 9 Stat. at
IArze, 1-27.

94

SUPREME COURT.
tnited Statu v. Brig ffeurea.

'The court below sustained the demurrer and dismissed the
libel, from which decree the United States appealed.
It was argued for the United States by Mr. Cushing, (Attorney General.)
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The Swedish brig Neurea was seized by the collector of
customs at San Francisco, as*forfeited to the United States
under the passenger act of 1847. The record in this case exhibits the libel for information, filed on behalf of the United
States, a demurrer thereto by the claimant, and, a decree of
the court below dismissing the libel. The appeal, therefore,
brings under review the question of the sufficiency of the libel.
The claimant sets forth the following grounds of demurrer:
1. That the said libel states no sufficient cause of cond~mnation of said ship.
2. Because the said libel states no offence against the laws
of the United States.
8. Because the said libel does not aver that the excess of
passengers carried or imported on said ship were so carried or
imported on the lower deck of said brig, or the orlop deck
thereof.
4. Because the facts stated in said libel do not constitute a
v.olation of the passenger act of the United States of 1847, or
an other law of the United States.
The first, second, and fourth, are but different forms of the
same general assertion, "-that the libel states no offence."
The third, which is more specific, objects to the libel for
want of an averment that the passengers were carried on the
lower deck.
An information for forfeiture of a vessel need not be more
technical in its language, or specific in its description of the
offence, than an indictment. As a general rule, an indictment
for a statute offence is sufficient, if it describe the offence in
the very words of the statute. The exceptions to this rule
are, where the offences created by statute are analogous to
certain common-law felonies or misdemeanors, where the precedents require certain technical language, or where special
averments .are necessary in the description of the partidular
offence in order that the defendant may afterwards protect
himself under the plea of autrefois acquit or convict. (See on
-this sAbject United States v. Gooding, 12 Wheaton, 474.)
The offence created by the statute on which this libelis
founded has no-analogy to any particular common-law crime.
,f, therefore, the libel sets forth the offence in the words of

DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.
United Statu v. Brig .eurea.

the statute which creates it, with sufficient certainty as to the
time and place of its commission, it is all that is necessary to
put the claimant on his defence.
The object of the act in question is the protection of the
health and lives of passengers from becoming a prey to the
avarice of ship owners. In order to test the sufficiency of the
libel, it will be necessary to set forth at length the two sections
under which it was framed:
The first section provides, that no master ."shall take on
board such vessel, at any foreign port or place, a greater -number of passengers than in the following proportion to the space
occupied by them and appropriated to their use, and'unoccupied by stores or other goods not being the personal baggage
of such passengers, that is to say, on the lower deck or ,2atform,
one passenger for every fourteen clear superficial feet of deck,
if such vessel is not 'to pass within the tropics during such
voyage; but if such vessel is to pass within the tropics during
such voyage, then one passenger for every twenty such clear
superficial feet of deck; and on the.orlop deck, (if any,) one
passenger for every thirty such superficial feet in all cases,
•with.intent to bring such passengers into the United States of
America, and shall leave such port, or place, with the same,
and bring the same, or any number thereof, within the jurisdicdiction of the United States aforesaid, or if any such master of
vessel shall take on board of his vessel, at anyport or place within
the jurisdiction of the United States aforesaid, any greater number of passengers than the proportions aforesaid admit, with the
intent to carry the same to any foreign port or place, every such
master shall be deemed guily of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof before any circuit or district court of the
United States aforesaid, shall, for each passenger taken on
board beyond the above proportions, be fined in the sum of
fifty dollars, and may also be imprisoned for any term not exceeding one year: Provid,that this act shall not be construed
to permit any ship or vessel to carry more than two passengers
aforesaid, shall exceed the number limited by the last section,

to the number of twenty in the whole, such vessel shall be forfeited
to the United States aforesaid, and be prosecuted and distributed as forfeitures are under the act to regulate duties on imports and tonnage."
Now, the libel conforms strictly to the requirements of this
It avers, that the master "took on board the Neurea at

96

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour et at. v. McCormic_.

Hong Kong, in China, on the 1st of June, 1854, two hundred
and sixty-three passengers. That this wai a Ireater number
than in proportion to the space occupied by them, viz: "on
the lower deck or platform" one passenger for every fourteen
clear superficial feet, with intent to bring said passengers to
the United States. That he afterwards, viz: on the 26th day of
_August, did bring them on said vessel to the port of San Francisco. That the passengers so taken on board and brought
into the United States did exceed the number which could be
lawfully taken, to the number of twenty in the whole, &c.
The act does not require an averment that the passengers
"were carried or imported on the lower deck or the orlop
deck."
The libel sets forth every averment of time, place, numbers,
intention, and act, in the very words of the statute. It was not
necessary to specify the precise measurement of the deck, or
to show by a mathematical calculation its incapacity; nor to
state the- sex, age, color, or nation, of the passengers; nor how
many more than twenty their number exceeded the required
area on deck. All these particulars were matters of evidence,
which required no special averment of them to constitute a
complete and technical description of the offence.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
record remitted for further proceedings.

WILLIAM H. SEYMOUR AND LAYTON S. MORGAN, PLAINTIFF9 IN
ERROR, V. CYRUS H. MCCORMICK.
The act of Congress passed on the 3d of March, 1837, (5 Stat. at L., 194,) provides
that a patentee may enter a disclaimer, if he has included in his patent what he
was not the inventor of; but if he recovers judgment against an infringer of his
patent, he shall not be entitled to costs, unless he has entered a disclaimer for
the part not invented.
It also provides that if a patentee unreasonably neglects or delays to enter a disclaimer, he shall not be entitled to the benefit of the section at all.
In 1845, McCormick obtained a patent for improvements in a reaping machine, in
which, after filing hia specification, he claimed, amongst other things, as follows, viz:
"2d. I claim the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade, in manner described.
413d. I claim the arrangement and construction of the fingers, (or teeth for supporttIg the grain,) so as to form the angular spaces in front of the blade, as and for
the purpose described."
These two clauses are not to be read in connection with each other, but separately.
The first claim, viz: for "the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade," not being new, and not being disclaimed, he was not entitled to costs, although he recovered a judgment for a violation of other parts of his patent.
Under the circumstances of the case, the patentee was not guilty of unreasonable
neglect or delay in making the disclaimer, which is a question of law for the
court tb decide.

