96

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour et at. v. McCormic_.

Hong Kong, in China, on the 1st of June, 1854, two hundred
and sixty-three passengers. That this wai a Ireater number
than in proportion to the space occupied by them, viz: "on
the lower deck or platform" one passenger for every fourteen
clear superficial feet, with intent to bring said passengers to
the United States. That he afterwards, viz: on the 26th day of
_August, did bring them on said vessel to the port of San Francisco. That the passengers so taken on board and brought
into the United States did exceed the number which could be
lawfully taken, to the number of twenty in the whole, &c.
The act does not require an averment that the passengers
"were carried or imported on the lower deck or the orlop
deck."
The libel sets forth every averment of time, place, numbers,
intention, and act, in the very words of the statute. It was not
necessary to specify the precise measurement of the deck, or
to show by a mathematical calculation its incapacity; nor to
state the- sex, age, color, or nation, of the passengers; nor how
many more than twenty their number exceeded the required
area on deck. All these particulars were matters of evidence,
which required no special averment of them to constitute a
complete and technical description of the offence.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
record remitted for further proceedings.

WILLIAM H. SEYMOUR AND LAYTON S. MORGAN, PLAINTIFF9 IN
ERROR, V. CYRUS H. MCCORMICK.
The act of Congress passed on the 3d of March, 1837, (5 Stat. at L., 194,) provides
that a patentee may enter a disclaimer, if he has included in his patent what he
was not the inventor of; but if he recovers judgment against an infringer of his
patent, he shall not be entitled to costs, unless he has entered a disclaimer for
the part not invented.
It also provides that if a patentee unreasonably neglects or delays to enter a disclaimer, he shall not be entitled to the benefit of the section at all.
In 1845, McCormick obtained a patent for improvements in a reaping machine, in
which, after filing hia specification, he claimed, amongst other things, as follows, viz:
"2d. I claim the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade, in manner described.
413d. I claim the arrangement and construction of the fingers, (or teeth for supporttIg the grain,) so as to form the angular spaces in front of the blade, as and for
the purpose described."
These two clauses are not to be read in connection with each other, but separately.
The first claim, viz: for "the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade," not being new, and not being disclaimed, he was not entitled to costs, although he recovered a judgment for a violation of other parts of his patent.
Under the circumstances of the case, the patentee was not guilty of unreasonable
neglect or delay in making the disclaimer, which is a question of law for the
court tb decide.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

97

Sqmur d a V. N.kCormick
The facts that a similar machine was in successful operation in the years 18291)ud
1853, do not farnish a sufficient ground for the jury to presume that it had been
in continuous operation during the intermediate time.
The fifteenth section of the patent act of 1836, which allows the defendant to give in
evidence that the improvement had been described in some public work anterior to
the supposed discovery of the patentee, does not make the.wdrk'evidence of any
•other fact- except that of the description of the said improvenient.

THis case- came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the northern district of New York.
It was a suit brought by McCormick against Seymour and
Morgan, for a violation of his patent right for reaping.machines,
which suit was previously before this court, and is reported in
16 Boward, 48G.
It will-be seen by reference to that case that McCormick
obtained three patents, viz: in 1834, 1845, and 1847. The
suit, as originally brought, included violatiofis of the patent of
1845, as well as that of 1847; but the plaintifi to avoid delay,
proceeded then only in his claim for a violation of the patent
of 1847, which consisted chiefly in giving to the raker of the
grain a convenient seat upon the machine.When the case
went back under the mandate of this court, the claim was for
the violation of.the patent of 1845, that of 1847 being mentioned only in the declaration, and not brought before the
court upon the trial, the main question being the violation of
the patent of 1845.
McCormick's claim in the patent of 1845 was as follows, viz:
I claim, 1st, the curved (or angled downward, for the pur,
'pose described) bearer, for supporting the blade inthe manner
described:
2d. I claim the reversed -angle of the teeth of the blade, in
manner described.
3d. I claim the arrangement and construction of the fingers,
(or teeth for supporting the grain,) so as to form the 'angular
spaces in front of the blade, as and for the .purpose described.
'4th. I claim the combinatio4 of the bow, L, and dividing
iron, M, for separating thYe wheat in the way decribed.
5th. I claim setting the lower end of the re'el-post, R, behind
the blade, curving it at R 2, and leaning it forward at top,
thereby favoring the cutting, and enabling me to brace it at
top by t'e front brace (S)as described, which I claim in combinatio with e post.
The fourth and fith claims were those which were alleged
to have been infiinged.
The defendantg pleaded the general issue, and gave notice
bf various prior inventions and publications in publie works,
which they designed to give in evidence intheir defence. The
.last trial was had in October, 1854, when the plaintiff obtained
7
voL. XIX

98

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour ef at. v. MCormfick.

a verdict for $7,750, and judgment was entered in June, 1855,
for $10,348.80.
There were twenty exceptions taken in the progress of the
trial, twelve of which were as to rulings upon points of evidence, which it is not material to notice. The remaining eight
were to portions of the charge of the court to the jury.
The defendants, in addition to other matters of defence, alleged that the second claim was not new, and that as there had
been unreasonable -delay in the disclaimer of it, the plaintiff
was not entitled to recover at all; and, at all events, was not
entitled to recover costs.
Only such portions of the charge of the court to the jury
will be here inserted, as were the subjects of the opinion of
this court.
One part of the charge was as follows, viz:
"The claim in question is founded upon two parts of the
patent. As the construction of that claim is a question of law,
we shall construe it for your guidance. In the fore part of the
patent, we have a description Qf the blade, and of the bladecase, and of the cutter. and of the mode of fastening the blade
and the blade-case and the cutter, and of the machinery by
which the arrangement is made for the cutter to work. We
have also the description of the spear-shaped fingers, and of
the mode by which the cutter acts in connection with those
fingers. Then, among the claims are these: '2. I claim the
reversed angle of the teeth of the blade in manner described.
3. I claim the arrangement of the construction of the fingers,
(or teeth for supporting the grain,) so as to form the angular
spaces in front of the blade, as and for the purpose described.'
low, it is insisted, on the part of the learned counsel for thedefendants, that this second claim is one simply for the reversed angles of the sickle-teeth of the blade. These teeth are
common sickle-teeth, with their angles alternately reversed in
spaces of an inch and a quartAr, more br less. The defendants
insist that the second claim is merely for the reversed teeth on
the edge of the cutter, and that the reversing of the teeth of
the common sickle as a cutter in a reaping machine wag'not
new with the plaintiff; and that if it was new with him, he had
liscovered it and used it long before his patent of 1845. The
defendants claim that Moore had discovered it as early as 1887
or 1888; and it would also seem that the plaintiff had devised
and used it at a very early day after his patent of 1834-that
is, the niere reversing of the teeth. But, on looking into the
plaintiff's patent more critically, we are inclined to think that
when the plaintiff says, in his second claim, II claim the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade, in manner described,' he

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

99

Symour e a V. JrcCormick.

means to claim the reversing of the angles of the teeth in the
mannerpreviously described in his patent. •You will recollect that
it has been shown, in the course of the trial, that in the operation of the machine, the straw comes into the acute-angled
spaces on each side of the spear-shaped fingers, and that the
angles of the fingers operate to hold the straws, while the
sickle-teeth, being reversed, cut in both directions as the blade
vibrates. The reversed teeth thus enable the patentee to avail
himself of the angles on both sides of the spear-shaped.fingers;
whereas, if the sickle-teeth were not reversed in sections, but
all ran in one direction like the teeth of the common sickle,
he could use the acute angles upon only one side of the-fingers,

because the cutter could cut only in one direction. We are
therefore inclined to think that the patentee intended .to claim,
by his second claim, the cutter having the angles of its teeth
reversed, in connection with the angles thus formed by the
peculiar shape of the fingers. And, as'it is not pretended that
any person invented that improvement prior to the plaintifi;
the point relied on in this respect by the learned counsel fo
the efendant fails."
The other parts of the charge which were excepted to'by the
counsel for the defendants were thus specifically mentioned.
To so much of the charge of the court as instructed the jury,.
in substance, that the plaintiff, in his patent of January 3 1st,
1845, did not claim the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade
as a distinct invention, but only claimed it in combination -with
the peculiar form of the fingers described in the satme patent,
the defendant's counsel excepted..
The defendant's counsel requested the .court to instruct the
jury, that if they should be satisfied that Hiram Moore was
the first inventor of the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade,
and that'the plaintiff was notified of that fact by the testimony
of.Moore on the trial of this cause in June, 1851, and had not
yet disclaimed that inventioil, then, in judgment of law, he has
unreasonably delayed filing his disclaimer, and the verdict
should be for the defendants.'
The court declined so to instruct the jury, and the defendant's counsel excepted to the refusal.
. The defendant's counsel further requested the court to instruct the jury, that if they should be satisfied that Hiram
Moore.was the first inventor of the reversed angle of the teeth
of the blade, and that the plaintiff was notified of that fact by
the tstimony of Hiram Moore on the trial of this cause in
June, 1851, and had not yet disclaimed that invention, then it
was a question of fact for them to decide, whether the plaintiff
had or had not unreasonably delayed the filing of a disclaimer;

100

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

and, if they should come to the conclusion that there had been
such unreasonable delay, their verdict should be for the defendants.
The -court refused so to instruct the jury, and the defendant's
'counsel excepted to the refusal.
The defendant's counsel requested the court to submit to the
Jury the question under the evidence in the case, whether the
plaintiff did or did not claim, in his patent of January 81st,
1845, the reversed -angle of the teeth of the blade, independent
of any combination.
The court refused to submit that question to the jury, and
the defendant's counsel excepted to the refusal.
The defendant's counsel also asked the court to instruct the
jury, .that, from the facts that Bell's machine operated successfully in 1829, and that it operated well also in 1853, they were
at liberty to infer that it had operated successfully in the intermediate period, or some part of it.
.. But the court held and charged, that there being no evidence
respecting it, except at the trial of it in 1829, an the trial of
it in 1853, the jury could not infer anything on the subject,
and refused to charge as requested. -The defendant's counsel
excepted to the refusal, and also excepted to the charge in this
respect.
Upon these exceptions, the case came up to. this court, and
was argued by .Mr. Harding and Mr. Stanton for the plaintiffs
in error, and by Mr. Dickerson and Mr. Johnson for the defendant. There was also a brief filed by Ar. Selden for the plaintiffs in error.
I It is almost impossible to convey to the reader a clear idea
of the argument, because models and drawings were produced
in court by the counsel on both sides, . The points made, however, were the following, viz:
For the plaintiff in error.
VI. The construction given in the court below, to the second
claim of the patent of 1845, was erroneous.
1. The words "!n manner described," used in the second
claim, refer exclusively to the description of the bonstruction
of the sickle, given in folio 155, without reference to the peculiar shape of the fingers, -or to any. combination whatever.
They refer to the straight blade alone, with the specified positions of its teeth.
To test this construction, suppose a prosecution under this
caim, of one who used such blade as is here described, with
fingers having parallel sides, forming right angles with the

DE EM3ER TERM, 1856.

101

Seymour et al. Y. Hccormick.

line of the blade-could it be said that this claim was not infringed? If it could not, there must be error in the chargeon
this point.
The construction given to this claim by the court would permit the free use by the public of the reversed angle of the
sickle, when not combined with the Vear-hea4d finger. Can that
be reconciled v'ith the language of the patentee, either in the
description of his invention, or of the claim based upon it?
If it can, a similar construction must b'e give4. to the third
claim, which is thhs rendered ientical with the. second as each
will then cover exactly the same combination, and, the sppar-head
finger Will be given to the public, except when bombhied with
the straight blade and reversed angle of the jteeth..
We suppose the correct rule for the interpretation of patents
is laid down by Mr. Ourtis, in his Treatise onPaents, sec. 126.
"The nature and extent of the invention claimed by the patentee, is the thing to be ascertained; and this is to be arrivad
at through the fair sense of the words wkhich he has &nployed
to describe his invention." But that rule, even as limited 6t
aided by the principle -referred to in see-tion 132, viz: "that a
specificationshouldbe so construed as, consisteiltly with the
fair import of language, will make the claim co-extensive with
the actual discovery," does not relieve the plaintiff here from
the distinct claim of the reversed teeth of the blade as an inde,endent invention.
This principle was well applied in the case of Haworth v.
Hardcastle, (Webster's Pat., Cses, 484, 485,) fr6m which it
was taken by Mr. Curtis. ' In that case it is shown, by the
opinion of Chief Justice Tindal, that a forced construction of
the language of the patent. was required to make the claim embrace what it was alleged to embrace; but in the present case
a forced construction not only of the language of the claim,
but of the description of the invention, must be adopted to exclude the claim of the reversed: teeth of the blade as an independent in~ention. Such latitude of interpretation cannot be
safely allowe of a patent, or any other instrument. Neither
it necessary for the protection of the rights of the patentee.
is
If he made "a miistake, the patent law affords means of corclaim must be taken as it
recting it; but until corrected, the
error
may
stands,
whatever
Curtis, 268;
Act of
1836,
sec.have
18.)led to it." (Byam v. Farr, 1
A patent for an invention is a grant from the G6vernmen,
and
as we suppose;
all other
grants,fairly.
and should
liberallybe
forconstrued,
the accomplishment
of the like
objects
designed

not otherwise.

(Curtis, see. 386.)

by it, and
Rights, the result of intel-

lectnal labor, are no 'doubt sacred; but we believe them -no

102

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour et at. v. MCormick.

more sacred than those which are the result of more humble
toil, and that. the same liberality of interpretation should be extended to the title-deeds of both. That those rules of construction which are applied to patents for lands should be
applied to patents for inventions. That the latter should no
more be stretched beyond the fair import of their terms when
the interest of the patentees would be promoted by their extension, or contracted in like degree when their interest would
be promoted by their restriction, than should any other deeds
or
contracts. (Godson on Patents, 2 205; Leroy v. Tatham,
14 Row., p. 176.)
Any more loose construction would render nugatory the
statute requiring "a written description of the invention," &e.,
in "full, clear, and exact terms," and in case of anymachine,
that
patentee or"shall
p9articularly
alulaspoint
out the
part, the
improvement,
combination,
which specify,
he claims
his own
in-

vention or discovery." (Act of 1886, sec. 6.)
And it would render entirely useless the provision in section
18 of the same act, providing for the amendment of defective
specifications.
The-reason usually given for requiring a more liberal consstruction of patents, than of other instruments, is, that there is
a great difficulty in giving exact descriptions of inventions.
Conceding the fact to be so, it may be a sufficient. answer to
say, that the statute requires an exact description,as a condition
of the grant. But, aside from the statute, it should be borne
in mind, that every mechanic in the land is bound, at his peril,
to decide correctly,from the specification, what every patent, touching
his business, covers; and the question is, if the subject be dillcult, where should the responsibility of its solution rest-upon
him who makes the description of his own work, for his own interest, and with all the aids to be derived from the Patent Office,
and, if he chooses, from patent agents, and men of science
skilled in -such matters, or from the 'Mechanic pretending to
no particular knowledge on the subject, having no interest,
and often deprived of all extraordinary aids? We think that
both reason and the statute demand of him, who claims the
exclusive right, to define clearly the limits of his invention.
It can in no case be difficult* for an inventor to say, distinctly,
whether he claims two or more elements singly, or merely in
combination. (Evans v. Hettick 8 Wash., p. 408; S. C., 1
Robb, 166.)
2. The point was material.
Hiram Moore used such a sickle as early as 1836, if not in
1834, and this was proved on the first trial of this case, as long
ago as June, 1851. lNotice of this invention by Moore was

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Seymour d al. v. .tcormick.

given to the plaintiff as early as September, 1850. The sickle,
as used by Moore in 1836, was also described by witnesses examined in October, 1851, and cross-examined by plaintiff's
counsel in this cause.
The plaintiff in his history of his invention, sworn to January 1, 1848, presented to the Commissioner of Patents, for
the purpose of obtaining an extension of his first patent, shows,
as we think, that he did not use the blade with reversed teeth
until the harvest of 1841.
Under these circumstances, we insist that the plaintiff was
called upon, during the three years that intervened between
the trial in June, 1851, and that in October, 1854, to disclaim
the -invention of the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade.
It was therefore a question for the jury, under section 9 of
the act of March 3d, 1837, (Curtis pp. 489, 490,) whether the
plaintiff had not unreasonably neglected or delayed to enter at
the Patent Office his disclaimer.
To allow a patentee, under such circumstances, to designedly delay a disclaimer, would defeat the manifest object of
the last proviso to section 9 above referred to, which was to
compel a patentee who had inadvertently covered by his patent
something to which he was not entitled, and thus wrongfully
obstructed its free use, to remove the obstruction ag soon as
possible after the discovery of his mistake.
XI. The request of instructions to the jury, "that from the
facts that Bell's machine operated successfully in 1829, and
that it operated well also in 1853, they were at liberty to infer
that it had operated successfully in the intermediate period, or
some part of it," should have been given; and the actual
charge, "that there being no evidence respecting it, except the
trial of it in 1829, and the trial of it in 1853, the jury could not
infer anything on the subject," was erroneous.
What the evidence was, of the use of Bell's machine, will be
found in Loudon's Encyclopmdia of Agriculture, pp. 442 to
427, and from the testimony of Obed Hussey.
We think that on this evidence, (that the machine used
in England was that described by Loudon,) it was proper
to submit to the jury the question as to its operation, and not
to place it under the ban as an entire failure, which seems to
be the effect of the charge, as it was given.
If it operated well in 1829 and in 1858, which is clearly
proved, and is assumed by the judge, it must certainly have
been "capable of operating well at any intermediate time.
Whether actually used or not, is wholly immaterial. .
And if the machine asia whole operated well, then the
divider, reel, and reel-bearer, each, operated well, and the reel

104

SUPREME COURT.
Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

was supported by a practically successful contrivance, which
formed no impediment in the way of the divider, or of the
division and separation of the grain, and on which no straws
could clog, as the entire space beneath the reel-shaft is, in this
machine, left unobstructed by the reel-bearer, which is horizontal some feet above the platform, and completely out of the
reach of the grain. There is no difference between the reelbearer in the machine of the plaintiffs in error and that in
Bell's machine. Waters, (McCormick's witness,) on being
shown the drawing of Bell's machine, in Loudon's Encyclopwdia of Agriculture, says: "As a mere manner of supporting
the reel, I see no difference between the method of supporting
the reel in this and the defendant's machine."
This prior invention 'of Bell's, if the court had not substantially excluded it from the consideration of the jury, would
have furnished a complete answer to the charge of infringement of the fifth claim of McCormick's patent of 1845. (Evans
v. lHettick, 3 Wash., p. 408; S. C., 1 Robb, p. 166.)
XII. It was erroneous to grant costs to the plaintiff, inasmuch as it appeared that he was not the first inventor of the
reversed angle of the sickle, and had not filed a disclaimer
prior to the commencement of the suit. (Act of 1837, sec. 9.)
The testimony showed conclusively that Moore was the first
inventor of the reversed angle of the teeth.
Points for the defendant in error:
Thirteenth -Excption.-Thedescription annexed to the letters
patent of plaintiff describes a sickle with reversed-cut teeth,
and then describes the manner in which this reversed-cut sickle
operates in connection with the spear-headed fingers, "forming an acute angle between the edge of the blade and the
shoulder of the spear, by which the grain -is prevented from
yielding to the touch of the blade." Tho specification then
claims "the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade in manner
described."
1. It also appeared, that ever since a date of the first realm
ing ,patent in 1834, the plaintiff had -xperimented with this
reversed sickle edge without producing any successful result,
until he combined it in the manner described in the patent of
1845.
2. The sickle, separate and apart from the machine, is no
invention, in whatever way the teeth are cut, but when combined in the machine -in the manner described, the reversed
cut becomes a very valuable invention, enablifig the sickle to
cut itself clear -each stroke; whereas, if the sickle were cut
only one way, and the fingers were straight, it would only
operate on the grain half the time.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

105

Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

3. This part of the invention was not infringed.
Fourteenth Exception.-Unreasonable neglect to file a disclaimer under the ninth section of the act of 1837, is a question of fact for the jury.
. fteenth Excepton.-There was no evidence that Moore had
ever constructed a reversed-cut sickle in the manner deseribed.
in the patent of plaintiff, nor that he had ever made one in
any manner which was successful-the only claim being, thit
in 1836-'37 he had made a reversed-cut sickle, and had never
seen one before, while the plaintiff had done the same thing
in 1834. There was therefore no fact for the jury to find, and
it would have been erroneous if the court had submitted an
hypothesis unsupported by evidence for their decision.
The construction of the claim also settled this point, because there was a pretence that such a manner of applying the
reversed-cut sickle was old.
Dtwntieth Exception.-The facts stated in this exception, that
Bell's machine operated successfully in 1829 and in 1853, are
not evidence frbm which-the jury could legally infer that it
had operated successfully in the intermediate period, or any
part- for there is no rule which raises a presumption of successful operation ouf of the facts assumed in the prayer, but
rather the contrary, since, if it ever-did succeed at all, it most
probably never would have been abandoned, and then its continued use to a more recent date would ha;e been quite as
easily proved as its use at any prior date.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of N~ew York.
The.suit .was brought by McCormick against Seymour and
Morgan, for the infringement of a patent for improvements in
a reaping machine granted to the plaintiff on the 81st June,
1845. The improvements claimed to be infringed were-st,
a contrivance or combination of certain parts of the machinery
described, for dividing the cut from the uncut grain; and 2d,
the arrangement of the reel-post in the manner described, so
as to support the reel without interfering with the -cutting instrument.
In the course of the trial, a question arose upon the true
construction of the second claim in the patent, which is as follows: "I claim the reversed angle of the teeth of the blade in
manner described." This claim was not one of the issues in
controversy, as no alleation of infringement was set forth in
the declaration. But it was insisted, on the part of the defendants, that the claim or improvement was not new, but tWd

106

SUPREME COURT.
$Seymour et al. v. McCormick.

before been discovered and in public use; and that, under the
ninth section of the act of Congress passed March 3, 1837, the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover cost, for want of a disclaimer of the claim before suit brought; and that, if he had
unreasonably neglected or delayed making the disclaimer, he
was not entitled to recover at all in the case.
The ground upon which the defendants insisted this claim
was not new, was, that it claimed simply the reversed angle of
the teeth of the blade or cutters. The court below were of
opinion, that, reading the claim with reference to the specification in which the instrument was described, it was intended to
claim the reversed angle of the teeth in connection with the
spear-shaped fingers arranged for the purpose of securing the
grain in the operation of the cutting-the novelty of which was
not denied.
The majority of the court are of opinion, that this construction of the claim cannot be maintained, and that it is simply
for the re-'ersed angle of the cutters; and that there is error,
therefore, in the judgment, in allowing the plaintiff costs.
In respect to the question of unreasonable delay in making
the disclaimer, as going to the 'whole cause of action, the court
are of opinion that the granting of the patent for this improvement, together with the opinion of the court below maintaining its validity, repel any inference of unreasonable delay
in correcting the claim; and that, under the circumstances,
the question is one of law. This was decided in the case of
the Telegraph, (15 How., 121.) The chief justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, observed that "the delay in entering it (the disclaimer) is not unreasonable, for the objectionable claim was sanctioned by the head of the office; it has been
held to be valid by a circuit court, and differences of opinion
the justices of this
in relation to it are foand to exist among
court. Under such circumstances, the patentee had a right to
insist upon it, and n6t disclaim it until the highest court to
which it could be carried had pronounced its judgment."
Several other questions were raised in the case, which have
been attentively considered by the court- and have been overruled, but which it cannot be important to notice at large, with
one exception, which bears upon the fifteenth section of the
patent act of 1836.
Bell's reaping machine was given in evidence, in pursuance
of*a notice under this section, with a view to disprove the
novelty of one of the plaintiff's improvements; a description
of it was read from "Loudon's Enqyclopedia of Agriculture,"
ublished in London, England, in 1831. In addition to the
description of the machine, it appeared in the work that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

107

ftwour et al. v. Jc]o[nick.

reaper had been partially successful in September, 1828, and
1829.
It also appeared, from the evidence of Mr. Hussey, that he
saw it in successful operation in the harvest of 1853.
The court was requested, oii the trial, to instruct the jury,
that from the facts that Bell's machine operated successfully
in,1829 and in 1853, they were at liberty to infer that it had
operated successfully in the intermediate period, which was
refused. Without stating other grounds to justify the ruling,
it is sufficient to say, that the only authority for admitting the
book in evidence, is the fifteenth section of the act above mentioned. That section provides, that the defendant may plead
the general issue, and give notice in writing, among other
things,. to defeat the patent, "that it (the improvement) had
been described in some public work anterior to the supposed
discovery thereof by the patentee." The work is no evidence
of the facts relied on for the purpose of laying a foundation
for the inference of the jury, sought be obtained.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed, with the qualification, that on the case being remitted to the eburt below, the
taxation of costs be stricken from the record.
Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record-from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
northern district of lNew York, and was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause, excepting that part embracing the taxation of costs in
the Circuit Court, be and the same is hereby afrned with
costs. And it is further ordered and adjudged by-this court,
that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to strike from the record
the taxation of costs in this cause.

