SUPREME COURT.
Baker ef al. v. Nachtrib..

ROMELTUS

L. BAKER 'AND JACOB H NtIci, TRUSTEES OF THE

HARMONY SOCIETY OF BEAVER COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA, AND
OTHERS, APPELLANTS, v. JOSHUA IN'ACHTRIEB.
The Harmony Society was established upon the basis of a community of property,
and one of the articles of association provided, that if any member withdrew
from it, he should 'not claim a share in the property, but should only receive, as
a donation, such sum as the society chose to give.
One of the members withdrew, and rectived the sum of two hundred dollars, as
donation, for which he gave a receipt, and acknowledged that he had withdrawr.
from the society, and ceased to be a member thereof.
A bill was then filed by him, claiming a share of the property,.upon the ground
that he had been unjustly excluded from the society by combination and covin,
and evidence iffered to ihow that he had been compelled to leave the society by
violenceand harsh treatment.
The evidence upon this subject related to a time antecedent to the date of the receipt. There was no charge" in the bill impeaching the receipt, or the settlement
made at'its date.
Held, that under the contract, the settlement was conclusive, unless impeached by
the bill.

THIS was an' appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the western district of Pennsylvania, sitting as a
court of equity.
It was a bill filed by Nachtrieb,' under the circimstances
mentioned in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court, after having referred the case to a master to state an-account, decreed that the trustees should pay
to Kachtrieb the sum of $3,890; from vhich decree the trustees appealed to this court.
:It was argued by Mr. Stanberry and Mr. Loomis for the appellants, and by Mr. Stanton for the appellee.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, who describes himself as a member in the
common and joint-stock association for" mutual benefit and
advantage, and for the mutual acquisition and enjoyment of
property, called the "Harmony Society," filed a bill in the
Qircuit Court against the appellants, as the trustees and managers of its-business and estate. The object of the bill is to
obtain for the plaintiff a decree for an account of the share to
which he is entitled in the propertyof the society, or compensation for his labor and service during the time he was'a member.
In.1819 he became associated with George Rapp and others,
in the Harmony Society in Indiana, and remained with them
there, or at Economy, in Beaver county, Pennsylvania, till
1846. He devoted his time, skill, attention, and care, during
that period, to the increase of the wealth and the promotion
of the interest of the society.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.

12T

Baker d aL v. Nachtrieb.

These facts are admitted in the pleadings of either party.
The bill avers, that in 1846, the plaintiff beinghen forty-eight
years old, and worn out with years and labor-for said association, was wrongfully and unjustly excluded from it, and deprived of any share in its property, benefits, or advanitages, by the
combination and covin of George Rapp and his associates;
that at the time of his exclusion he was' entitled to a large sum
of money, which those persons unjustly and illegally appropriated to thir own use; that George Rapp was the leader and
trustee of the associatibn, invested with the title to its property; and that, since his death, the defendants have acquired the
control and management of its business and affairs, and the
possession of its effects. The plaintiff calls for the production
of the articles of. association, which from time o time have
regulated this society, and prays for an account and distribution. of its property, or a compensation for his labor.
The defendants produce a series of articles, by which the
association has been governed. since its organization in 1805.
They admit, that from small beginnings the society have
become independent in their circumstances, being the owners
of lands ample for the supply of their subsistence, warm and
comfortable houses for the members, and engines and machinery to diminish and cheapen their labors. They affirm
'that the plaintiff participated inall the individual, social, and
religios benefits which were enjoyed by his fellows, under
of distheir contract, until he became possessed by a spirit
mnembership

content a.nd disaffection, a oshort time before his
terminated. They deny that the plaintiff was wrongfully excluded from the association, or deprived of a share or partici-

pation in tha property and effects, by the combination or covin
of George Rapp and his associates; but assert, that voluntarily,
and of his own accord, he separated himself from the society.
They deny that he had a title to any compensation for labor
and service while he was a member, other than that which was
expended for his support, maintenance, and instruction, .and
that which he derived during the time from'the spiritual and
social advantages he enjoyed. To support this averment, they
epitomize the history of the Harmony Society, and the agreements which, from time to time, have been the -basis of its
organization.
Tlhe society was.composed at first of Germans, who emigrated
to the United States in 1805, under the leadership of George
Rapp. The members were associated and combined by.the
common belief that the government of the patriarchal age,
united to the community of property, Adopted in the days of
the Apostles, would conduce to promote their .temporal and

SUPREME COURT.
Bakm e a . v. Qachtrie.

oternal happiness. 'The founders of the society surrendered
all their property to the association, for the common benefit.
The society was settled originally in Pennsylvinia, was removed in 1814 and 1815 to Indiana, and again in 1825 to Econoa
my, in Pennsylvania.
The organic law of the society, in regard to their property, is
containedin two sections of the articles of association, adopted
in 1827 by the associates, of whom the plaintiff was one. They
are as follows: $'All the property of the society, real, personal,
and mixed, in law or equity, and howsoever contributed and
acquired, shall be deemed, now and forever, joint and indivisible stock; each individual is to be considered to have
finally and irrevocably parted with all his formr contributions, whether in land, goods, money, or labor, and the same
rule shall apply to all future contributions, whatever they
may be.
"Sh6uld any individual withdraw from the society, or depart this life, neither he, in the one case, nor-his representatives, in the latter, shall be entitled to demand an account of
said contributions, whether in land, goods, money, or labor;
or to.claim anything from the society as matter of right. But
it shall be left altogether to the discretion of the superintendent to decide whether any, and, if any, what allowance shall be
made to such member, or his representatives, as a donation."
* The defendants, admitting, as we have seen, that the plaintilf, until- 1846, was a contented member of the association,
aftswer and say,. that during that year he became disaffected;
used violent threats against the associates; made repeated
declarati6ns of his intentions to leave the society, and in that
year fulfilled his design by a voluntary withdrawal and separation from the society, receivihg at the'same time from George
Rapp two hundred dollars as a donation. They exhibit, as a
part of the answer,, a writing, signed. by the plaintiff, to the
following effect:.
" Today I have withdrawn myself from the Harmony Society, and ceased to be a member thereof; I have also received
of George Rapp two hundred dollars as a donation, agreeably
to contract.

JosHuA NACHRTRB:

June 18, 1846."
This statement of the pleadings shows that no issue was.
made in them upon the merit of the doctrines, social or religious, which form the basis of this association; nor any question in reference to the religious instruction and ministration,
or the domestic economy or physical discipline which their
leader and the other managers have adopted and enforced.
"ECONOMY,

Z)ECEMBER TERM, 1856.

129

Bakff et aZi X~2achtrigb.

Nor ao they suggest any inquiry into the- condition of the
members, and whether they have experienced hardship, oppression, or- undue mortification, from the ambitioii, avarice,
or fanaticism, of their guides and administrators.
The bill depends on the averments, that the plaintiff approied the constitution of the society; submitted to its government; obeyed its regulations, and prized the advantage of being a member. The burden of his complaint is, that he was
wrongfully, and witlhout. any fault or consent on his part, deprived of his station through the combination of the leader
and his assistants. And-the defendants concede the character
the plaintiff claims for himself; they concede that the plaintiff
was an approved and blameless member of the association, and
was entitled t6 whatever its constitution and order provided
for the temporal good .or the eternal felicity of the members,
and assert that he enjoyed them until he became disaffected
and repining, and finally surrendered to a spirit of discontent,
which moved him to abandon his condition and privileges. As
an evidence of this, they produce a writing, signed by him, ini
which he acknowledges a voluntary'secession from the society,
and claims that the case has arisen to authorize him to make
an appeal to the bounty of the superintendent, and that the
superintendent has answered that appeal by a donation. The
value" of this writing is now to be considered. The power of
'the superintendent to substract from the otherwise "joint and
indivisible stock" of the society a portion for the individual
use of a seceding member, depends upon the oncession that
the member has withdrawn voluntarily. He cannot supply
one who is the victim of covin or combination. The evidence
shows that the mind of the plaintiff, in June, 1846, was disquieted in c.onsequence of his connection with the association,
and that he contemplated a change in his condition; that he
made inquiries upon the expediency of a removal from Economy, and made some preparations for his departure; that the
leader of the society, suspeeting his.discontent, and di.scov~ering some deviation by him from the rules of the society, rebuked him with harshness, and menaced him with a sentence
of expulsion. Some of the witnesses testify to such a sentence,,
while the testimony of others reduces the expressions to an admonition and menace. But two days after the occurrence of
the last of these scenes, and before any removal had taken
place, the writing in the record was executed by him, embodying his decision to leave the society, and to accept the bounty
the constitution permitted the silperintendent to bestow. This
writing would have much probative force, if we were simply
to treat it as an admission of the statements it contains, when
9
vo. xIx.

130

SUPREME COURT.
Aeegan v. Boyle.

considered in connection with other evidence in the record.
But, we think, this writing is something more than an admission, and stands in a different light from an ordinary receipt.
The writing must be treated as the contract of dissolution, between the plaintiff and the society, of their mutual obligations
and engagements to each other. No evidence of prior decla.
rations or antecedent conduct is admissible to contradict or to
vary it.
It was prepared to preserve the remembrance of what the
parties had prescribed to themselves to do, and expresses their
intention in their own language; and that such was its object,
is corroborated by the fact that for three years there is no evidence of a contrary sentiment. Treating this writing as an instrument of evidence of this class, it is clear that the bill has
not made a case in which its validity can be impeached. To
enable the plaintiff to show that the rule of the leader, (Rapp,)
instead of being patriarchal, was austere, oppressive, or tyrannical; his discipline vexatious and cruel; his instructions fanatical, and, upon occasions, impious; his system repugnant to
public order, and the domestic happiness of its members; his
management of their revenues and estate rapacious, selfish, or
-dishonest; and that the condition of his subjects was servile,
ignorant, and degraded, so that iione of them were responsible
for their contracts or engagements to him, from a defect of
capacity and freedom, as has been attempted.by'him in the
testimony collected in this cause, it was a necessary prerequi-site that his bill should have been so framed as to exhibit such
aspects of the internal arrangements and social and religious
-economy of the association. This was not done; and for this
-cause the evidence cannot be considered. The authorities cited
from the decisions of this court are decisive. Very v. Very, 13
How., 361, 345; Patton v. Taylor, 7 How., 157; Crockett v.
Lee, 7 Wheat., 525.
Decree reversed. Bill dismissed.

JAM-s MEEGAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JEREMIAH

T.

BOYLE.

In Missouri, where a deed was offered in evidence, purporting to convey the tides
of married women to land, and their names were in the handwriting of other
persons, and there was no proof that the women had either signed or acknowl-.
edged the deed, it was properly refused by the court to be allowed to go to the

jury.
The property was paraphernal, and could not be conveyed away by their husbands.
The facts in the case were not sufficient to warrant the jury to presume the consent of the married, women.

