150

SUPREME COURT.
Post et al. v.r.T"

d al.

ri ht of action or entry shall have accrued, before the tine
when this act takes effect, but the same shall remain subject
to the laws now in force."
It will be observed, that the limitation act of 1818, being still
in force, cannot operate on any of the femes'covert of whom
the plaintiff claims. It did not begin to run against them
until they became discovert, from wbich time it required
twenty years to bar. -their right. Under such circumstances,
no presumption can arise against them, as they had no power
to prosecute any one who entered upon their land. No laches
can be charged against .them until discoverture; and there is
no ground to say that either the statute or lapse of time, since
that period, can affect the rights of the plaintiff, or df those
under whom he claims. 'The court, therefore, did not err in
refusing to give to the jury the instructions requested.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit Court is-affirm'ed, with costs.

WILLIAM E.

POST AND

OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF A PORTION OF THE

CARGo OF THE SHIP RICHMOND, APPELLANTS, v. JOH 11. JONES
AND OTHERS, IJIBELLANTS.
It cannot be doubted that a master has power to sell both vessel and cargo, in certain cases of absolute necessity.
But this )ule had no application to a wreck where the property is deserted, or
about to become so, and the person who has it ii his power to save the crew,
and salve the cargo, prefers t drive a bargain with-the master, and where th#
necessity is imperative because it is the price of safety.
No valid reason can be dsigned for fixing the reward for salving derelict property
at "'not more than a half' or less than a third of the property saved." The true
principle in all cases is, adequate reward according to the circumstances of the
'case.
Where the property salved was transported by the salvors from Bebring's Straits to
the Sandwich Islands, and thence to New York, the salvage service was complete when the property Was brought to a port of safety. The court allowed the
salvors the onehalf for this service, and also freight on thp other moiety from
the Sandwich Islands to New York.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, sitting in admiralty.
It was a libel filed by the owners of the ship Richmond and
cargo, under circumstances which are particularly stated in
the opinion of the court.
The District Court dismissed the libel, thereby affirming the
sales.
The Circuit Court reversed this decree, and declared the

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Post et al. v. Zones et al.

sales invalid, but that the respdndents were entitled t6 a moiety
of the net proceeds, in the New York market, of the articles
brought in their respective ships, and sold by the said respondents, respectively; and that they pay to the owners of the Richmond the other moiety of the said proceeds, with interest, to
be computed at the rate of seven per cent. per annum, from
the dates of the sales of the said articles.
The claimants appealed to this court.
It was argued by M'..0' Connor for the appellants, and M~r.
Lord for the appellees.
As this case involved some very important points of law,
with respect tb the rights of captains of vessels upon the ocean,
and also the rights and duties of salvors, the reporter thinks it
proper to take an extended view of the arguments of counsel,
although they sometimes refer to depositions and facts which
are not especially mentioned in the. narrative, which is given
in the opinion 6f the court.
.r. O'Connor;for the appellants, made the following points:
First -Point.-Thedecree of the Circuit Court cannot be sustained, unless, byaii unbending rule which admits of no exception or quahfia tion, the power of the master to sell is absolutely limited to a sale by auction, with the advantage of free
competition lietweeih rival purchasers. If,
in any case, or under any circumstances, he may sell by private contract 'and to
a single purchaser, the decree is erroneous.
I. The authority of the master to sell in cases of extreme necessity like the present, is, as d general proposition, definitively settled. Even where there is only "a probability of loss,
and it is made more hazardous by every day's delay," to act
promptly, and thereby "to save something for the benefit of all
cohcerned, though but little may be saved," is his imperative
duty.. (Abbott on shipping, 5 Am. ed., pp. 14, 19; Ib., note
to page 19; Brig Sarah Ann, 2 Sumner, 215; lew England
Ins. Q.v. Sarah Ann, 13 Peter's, 887.)
IL The master of the Richmond had no other resort, for the
.purpose of saving anything, than the sale which he made.
1. Even if transportation to the- shore was practicable, every
witness who was examined testifies that preservation there,
through the long wihter then approaching, was not possible.
The faint intimations to the contrary by Xceve, and those still
fainte'r put forth by Cherry, scarcely form an exception to the
universality of this opinion.
2. That freighting oisalvage services were uiknown in those

SUPREME COURT.
Post et al. v. Jone e at.

regions, and would not have been undertaken by any one, is
still more distinctly established by the proofs. It rests not
merely on the uniform opinion of experts, the absence of
practice, the extreme remoteness of the scene from the theatre
of any human action, except catching whales; for it is proven
by the form of the- insurance policies used by American
whalers, the only civilized visiters of the territory. (1 Seward's
Works, p. 242; The Boston, 1 Sumner, 335, 386; Elizabeth
and Jane, Ware, 38.)
a. The freight, even as far a the Sandwich Islands, according to the best guess the libellants could elicit from ary witness,
if obtained by a miracle, would have exceeded the alleged
maximum allowance in salvage -cases. b.A salvage service would iniolve a transportation over
25,000 miles for adjudication. A juogment in rem in a foreign
intermediate . admiralty would not be regular or binding; nor,
if so, wouild it be beneficial to these libellants. (The Hamilton,
8 Hagg, 168.)
III. There was no want of ordinary judgment or prudence
in the manner of the sale. .
1. He gave notice to every vessel within reach; and, considering the season, the little experience yet had in those seas in
respect to the time of its closing, and the great danger there
was that the Richm6nd might go to pieces in case of any delay,
prudence dictated the earliest possible action.
a.. The experts differ much as to the time of the season
closing.

-

b.Even Reeve deemed it unsafe to stay longcer.
c. P. Winters's anxiety to get cargo on boara of the Frith for
,safety even before the sale is manifest.
. "2.The event is not the proper test, bhat if "applied here it
would favor the master's decision. He could not have induced
-these three ships to lie idle, and to lie still in an unlucky spot
until the 18th of August, waiting for cu~tomers. And if he
16d.the means of working this singular achievement, there is
no satisfactory evidence that he could have drummed up a
sufficient company to make an auction such as the decree
below requires.
3. The weight of evidence is, that as much was obtained as
could have bieen gotten if there were numerous bidders.
4. The want of precision and exactitude as to weight -and
place where neither Weights nor measures existed
measure, in a,
.or were in use,. is an unimportant circumstance.
5. Dispensing with gettlement or payment till the meeting
.atSandwich Isiands was natural, and indeed necessary; for
inopey was not to be had.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Post d al. v. Anea d al.

6. The difference in value between oil and bone, which
might have led to a more profitable arrangement, did not at
the time occur to any one concerned in these transactions. It
is not necessary to the validity of the sale, that in every detail
the most subtle contrivances ingenuity can suggest for.iattaining a profitable result should ha-ve .been resortedto.
IV. There is not the remotest ground for imputing fraud or
ill motive to any one concerned.
1. That Philander Winters was in failing health, apprehensive of approaching death, and susceptible of fraternal tenderness, are not circumstances to excite suspicion of his motives.
2. The difference in age and expefrence between the brothers
was trivial. There was evidently a total absence of concert
between the three purchasing masters; and the weight of
evidence is, that the Junior got the greatest amount of bone.
3. The relation between Jonas and Philander Winters,
coupled with the omission of Jonas to secure for himself any
advantage over the others, and his letting the wreck go t6 a
stranger for $5, conclusively repel every suggestion of this
kind. They also present a vivid picture of the extraordinary
condition of thifigs produced by a shipwreck in the Arctic
regions.
4. The small price given for the wreck is like what frequently
happens at regular auction sales with fall competition. (7 Law
Reporter, 878; 6 Cowen's Rep., 271.)
5. The resort to the forms of an auction may indeed have
been idle, as there Were not purchasers enough to take the
whole, and so, necessarily, no competition; but, pursuing
imitatively the praetice in the world, is not alone adequate proof
that these Polar -wanderers were seeking to color the transaction.
V. lNone of the preceding propositions are affected by the
testimony of Reeve and Cherry.
1. They are interested in the result, and actual prosecutors
ofrfth claim. Their testimony should be wholly rejected as
incompetent, because of their interest. (The Boston, 1 Sumner,
828.)
2. They are evidently uncandid, self-irapeached in a considerable <legree, and are contradicted In mtnhy particulars. (The
Jane, 2 Hagg, 838; The Boston, 1 Sumner, 345.)
I &cond Point.-The .decree of the Circuit Court appears to
borrow some of its principles from analogy to the position,
assumed as.law, that a contract between salvors and the slalved,
made at sle, is necessarily and per se void. Such id not 'the
ease; aid the most that can be said on that head is, that the
-nature of the subject gives apparently more occasion to the

154

SUPREME COURT.
Post detc. v. roae e al.

"chancery of the sea" than the chancery of the land, to vacate
Oppressive and unreasbnable contracts.
1. There are two obiter dicta to that effect in 1 Bee, (pp. 136,
139;) but the English authorities, and those in the American
admiralty, including this court, are merely that suich agreements must appear to be fair and reasonable. (The True Blue,
2 W. Rob., .176; The Graces, 2 W. Rob., 294; The Westminster, 1 W. Rob., 235; The Industry, 3 Hogg, 205; The Mulgrave, 2 Hogg, 77; The Emul6us, 1 Sumner, 210, 211; Houseman v. Sch. North COaolina, 15 Peters, 45.)
* Third Point.-The libellants err in supposing, that the law
of nature, which enforces the saving of life as a duty, has any
force, in relation to the, saving of property. (The Boston, 1
Summer, 335, 336; The Zephyr, 2 Hogg, 43; he Ganges, I
Notes of Cases, 87; The Margaret, 2 iHagg, 48, note.)
Yourth .Point.-Itis not, as claimed by the libellants, a fEked
and invariable rule, that salvage, in cases of derelict, shall not
exbeed one-half the value; and, if such appeared to be the rule
iu all former decisions, the present is a new case in all its features, and. would require a higher compensation.
-I. This moiety practice has a very barbarous origin, and is
entitled to no respect, The authorities all show that it has no
binding force, the allowance being merely discretionary. (The
Aquila, 1-C. Rob., 41, 47, and note;, 1 Sumner, 214, 215; 1
Story, 323; 1 Warey 39; The Huntress, 1 Wallace, jr., 70.)
II. The instances of salvage service to be'found in the books
are confined to the highways of commerce, and within comparatively narrow spaces.
There is no recorded judgment upoin the salvage to be allowed for rescuifig property from shipwre~k, under circumstances at all'comparable with the present case. (The Martha,
8 Hagg, 434; Elliotta, 2 Dodson, 75; The Effort, 3 Hagg, 166;
L'Esperance, 1 Dodson, 49; Sprague v. 140 Bbls. Flour, 1 Story,
197; Peisch v. Ware, 4 Cranch, 346; The Reliance, 2 Hagg, 90,
note; The Jubilee, 3 Hagg, 43, note; The Jonge, 5 Ch. Rob.,
322; Howland v: 210 Bbls. Oil, 7 Law Rep., 377; The Swan,
1 W. Rob., 70.)
.F'fth .Poin.-The power of the master to sell in a case of
extreme necessity, allows him to sell as he may. In the Polar
regions, where, by an-invincible and irreversible law of nature,
it is impossible to perform the duty of agent for all concerned,
in the methods usually employed within the territory of trade
and civilizatiou, he -may still save what can be saved, by using
such means as present themselves.
Mr. Lord, for the appellees, made the following points:

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
.t

d a. V. .Tone

155

d at.

irst Point.-I. The.whole tiansaction was in its nature a
salvage from a ship in hopeless distress on the high seas, and
near an uninhabited coast; with a master and crew dependent
on the other ships; which master was willing and had offered
to give all the cargo, in order to be taken directly home, after a
three years voyage. It therefore belongs to courts of admiralty
to judge it by its own rules of humanity, policy, and justice; ,
2. In all cases within the admiralty jurisdiction, the court,
as the chancery of the sea, supervises all attempted contracts,
where distress of'a ship or her crew enter into the transaction.
3. To allow contracts between parties dependent for salvage
service and salvors to be valid, would defeat the jurisdiction
of admiralty entirely. (Cowel v. The Brothers; Schultz v. The
Mary, Bee's Rep.; 136, 137; -The Emulous, 1 Sumn. 0. C. R.,
210; The Henry Ewbank, 1 Sumn., 416; Bearse v. 340 Pigs
Copper, 1 Story R., 323; Laws of Oleron, Ch. IV, (Godolphin,
art. 4; 1 Peters Adm., App., art. 4 and art. 9;) The Packet, 3
,Mason R., 253, 260; La Isabel, I Dodson, 273; The Augusta,
lDodson, 283;,8 Jurist, 716; TheWestminster, 1 W. Rob., 230.)
. ,condPoint.-,-The form of sale attempted to be made the
means of divesting the property of the wrecked ship and cargo,
was invalid, in law; and, in substance and in circumstance,
fraudiulent as to the owners of the property.
1. There was no market nor any market value at the time
and place of sale, whereby, the form of a sale could afford any
test of actual value. There was no competition, or expectation
of it, by those who were to attend the sale; and the whole
question of adequacy of price or reasonableness of conduct is
as open as it wouldhave been without the formality; it remains
purely a question of salvage. (The Tilton, 5 Mason R., 477;
The Sarah Ann, 2 Sumner, 217, 5. C., 13 Peters R., 402.)
'.2. The form of a sale was contrived, arranged, and conducted,
not by the master
of the wrecked ship, but masters
his brother,
of the
saving ship, and his associates,by
the master oftothe
other ships, whom the master of the wrecked ship had offered to abandon all, for the take of a speedy passage home.
The master of the wrecbked ship exercised no power of sale or
other power wl~teverj he was throughout passive, and withwhatever.
demand
out the spirit or means of resistatice to
of
the interest
protect
to anyr

3. The absence of all arrangement
the sellers, as to quantity, security for price, means of exami-

nation of detail'and. mode of selling, would have avoided, this
forma of a sale, if made under any oircumstances. In all parprobability,
property,
value ofremains
saved,
ticulars of quantity the
be
open to of
wholly
transaction

*ecovery, or of loss,
adjudged as in a case of salvage.

o

156

SUPREME COURT.
Post

a

al. v. Jione ef al.

Third Point.-The ialvage awarded was liberal, and fully
and generously sufficient.
1. There was no danger-worth remunerating; none beyond
-any shore salvage.
2. There was no generosity of motive in the salvors; but, on
the contrary, there was an attempt to 'avoid the adjudicationof the appropriate salvage tribunal, and actually to secrete the
whalebone, the part of the saved property most valuable for
the purpose of transportation home.
3.The attempt to shbw that it *as as well to fill up the
ships by catching whales and, trying out the oil, as by taking
oil and whalebone already prepared and at hand, entirely failed,
and is intrinsically incredible.
4. The relations between the parties to the wrecked ship
and cargo and the two saving ships, should have prevented,and should prevent, the latter from stripping the former,
whether by a pretended sale or on a real claim of salvage.
5. The appellate court will not disturb an adjudication ofsalvage, unless largely erroneous. (The Sybil, 4 Wheaton, 98;
Hobart v. Drogan, 10 Peters R(., 108.).
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The libellants, owners of the ship Richmond and cargo, filed
the libel in this case for an adjustment of salvage.
They allege, that -the ship Richmond left the port of Cold
Spring, Long Island, on a whaling voyage to the North and
South Pacific Ocean, in July, 1846; that on the 2d of August,
1849, in successful prosecution of her voya e, and having
nearly a full cargo, she was run upon some rocks on the coast
of Behring's Straits, about a half mile from shore; that while
so disabled, the whaling ships Elizabeth Frith and the Panama,
being in the same neighbbrhood, and about to return home,
but not having full cargoes, each took on board some seven or
eight hundred barrels of oil and a large quantity of whalebone
from the Rflichmond; that these vessels have" arrived in the port
of Sag Harbor, and their owners are proceeding to sell said oil,
&c., without adjusting or demanding salvage, unjustly setting
up a pretended sale ofthe Richmond and her cargo to them by
her master.
The libellants pray to have possession delivered to them of
the oil, &c., or its proceeds, if sold, subject to "salvage and
freight."
The claimants, who are owners of the ships Frith and Panama, allege, in their answer, that the Richmond was wholly and
irrevocably wrecked; that her officers and crew had abandoned
her, and gone on a barren and uninhabited shore nearby; that

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
.Post a at. v. Jones et al.

there werd no inhabitants or persons on that part of the globe,
from.whom any relief could.be obtained, or who would accept
her cargo, or take charge thereof, for a salvage compensation;
that the cargo of the Richmond, though valuable in a good
m arket, was of little or no value where she lay; 'that the season during which it was practicable to remain*was nigh its
close; th.t the entire destruction 6f both vessel and cargo Was
.inevitabe, and the loss of the lves of the crew almost certain;
that, under these circumstances, the master of the Richmond
concluded to sell the vessel at auction, and so much of her cargo
following
hich was done on the
persons
thethe
as was desired'by
d y, with
assent present,
of the whole
ship s company.
Respondents aver that this sale was a fair, honest, and valid
sale of the property, made from necessity, in good faith, and
for the best interests of all concerned, and that they are 'the
rightful and bona fide owners of the portions of the cargo
respectively purchased by them.
The District Court decreed in favor of claimants; on appeal
to the Circuit Court, this decree was reversed; the sale was
pronounced void, and the respondents treated as salvors only,
and permitted to retain a moiety of the proceeds of the property as salv~age.
-The claimants have appealed to this court, and the questions
proposed for our consideration are, 1st, whether, -underthe peculiar circumstances of this case, the sale should be treated as
conferring a valid title; and, if not, 2d, whether the salvage
allowed was sufficient.
1. In the examination of the first question, we shall not inquire whether there is any truth in the allegation that the
master of the Richmond was in such a state of bodily and
mental infirmity as to render him incapable of acting; or
whether lie was governed wholly by the undue int.uence and
suggestions of his brother, the master of the Frith. For the
decision of this point, it will not be found necessary to impute
to him either weakness of intellect or want of good faith.
It cannot be doubted. that a master has power to sell both
'vessel and cargo in certain cases 'of absolute necessity. This,
though nowthe received dbctrine of the modern English and
.American cases, has not been universally received as a principle of maritime law. The Consulado del Mare (art. 253) allows
the master a power to sell, when a vessel becomes -unseaworthy
from age; while the laws of Oleron and Wisby, and the ancient
French ordinances, deny such~power to the master in any case.
that such a permission, under
The reason' given by Valin is,
any circumstances, would tend to encourage fraud. But, while
the-power is not denied, its exercise should be closely scruti-

158

SUPREME COURT.
Pot et al. v. J'Tonef aL

nized by the court, lest it be abused. Without pretending to
enumerate or cklssify-the multitude of cases on this subject, or
to state all the possible conditions under which this necessity
may exist, we may say that it is applied to cases where the
vessel is disabled, stranded, or sunk; where the master has no
means and can raise no funds to repair her so as to prosecute
his voyage; yet, where the s'pes recuperandi may have a value
in the market, or the boats, the anchor; or the rigging, are or
may be saved, and have a value in market; where the cargo,
though damaged, has a value, because it has a market, and it
maybe for the interest of all concerned that it be sold. All
the cases assume the fact of a sale, in a civilized country, where
men have money, where there is a market and competition.
They have no application to wreck -in a distant ocean, where
the property is derelict, or about to beeome so, and the person
who has it in his power to save the crew and salve the cargo
prefers to drive a bargain with the master. The necessity in
such a case may be imperative, because it is the price of safety,
but it is not of that character which permits the master to exercise this power.
As many of the circumstances attending this case are peculiar and novel, it may not be improper to give a brief statement
of them. The Richmond, after a ramble of three years on the
Pacific, in pursuit of whales, had passed through the sea of
Anadin, and was Rear Behring's Straits, in the Arctic ocean,
on the 2d of August, 1849. She had nearly completed her
cargo, and was about to return; but, duing a thick fog, she
was run upon rocks, within half a mile of the shore, and in
a situation from which it was impossible' to extricate her.
The master and crew escaped in their boats to-the shore, holding communication with the vessel, without much difficulty
or danger. They could probably have transported the cargo
to the oeach, but this would have been unprofitabie labor, as
its condition would not have been improved. Though saved
from the ocean, it would not have been safe. The coast was
barren; the few inhabitants, savages and thieves. This ocean
is navigable for only about two months in the year; during
the remainder of the year it is sealed up with ice. The winter
was expected to commence within fifteen or twenty days, at
farthest. The nearest port of safety and general commercial
intercourse was at the Sandwich Islands, live thousand miles
distant. Their only hope of escape from this inhospitable region was by means of other whaling vessels, which were known
to be cruising at no great distance, and who had been in company with the Richrond, and had pursued the same course.
On the 5th of August the fog cleared ogf, and the ship Eliza-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

159

Post ef al. v. .Tomez
dt at.

beth Frith was seen at a short distance. The officers of the
Richmond immediately went on board, and the master informed
the master of the Frith of the disaster which had befallen the
Richmond. He requested him to take his crew dh board, and
said, "You need not whale any more; there is plenty of oil
there, which you may take, and get away as soon as possible."
On the following day they took on board the Frith about 800
barrels oil from the -Richmond. On the 6th, the Panama
and the Junior came near; they had not quite completed their
cargoes; as there was more oil in the Richmond than they
could all take, it was proposed that they also should .complete
their cargoes in the same way. Captain.. Tinkham, of the
Junior,.proposed to take.part of the crew of the Richmond, and
said he would take part of the oil, "provided itwas put up
and sold at auction." In pursuance of this suggestion, advertisements were posted on each of the three vessels, signed .&y
or for the master of the Richmond. On the following day the
forms of an auction sale were eflacted; the master of the Frith
bidding one dollar per barrel for as much as he needed, and
the others seventy-five cents. The ship.and tackle were sold
for five dollars; no money was paid, and no account kept or
bill of sale made out. Each vessel took eough to complete
her cargo o.t oil and bone. The transfer was effected in a
couple of days, with some trouble and labor, but little -or no
xisk or danger, and the vessels immediately proceeded on their
•voyage, stopping-as usual at the Sandwich "slands.
Nvow, it is evident, from this statement of the facdts, that, although the Richmond was stranded near the shore upon which
her crew and even her cargo might, have been saved from the
dangers of the sea, they were really in no better situation as to
ultimate safety than if foundered or disabled in the midst of
the Pacific ocean. The crew were glad to escape with- their
li-Ves. The ship and cargo, 'though not actually derelict, must
necessarily have been abandoned. The contrivance of an auction sale, under such circumstances, where the master of the
Richmond was hopeless, helpless, and passive-where there
was no market, no money, no competition-where one party
had absolute power, and the other no choice but submissionwhere the vendor must take what is offered or get nothing-is
a transaction which has no characteristic of a valid contract.
It has been contended .by the claimants that it would be a
great-hardship to treat this sale'as a nullity, and thus compel
them t -assume the character of salvors, because they were
not .bound to save this property, especially at so great a distance from any port of safety, and in a place where they could
have completed their cargo in a short time from their own

160

SUPREMIE COURT.
Post et al. v. Jones et al.

catchings, and where salvage would be no compensation for
the loss of this. oppqrtunity. The force- of these arguments
is fully appreciated, but we think they are not fully sustained by the facts of the case: Whales may have been
plenty around their vessels on the 6th and 7th of August,
but, judging of the future from the past, the anticipation
of filling up their cargo in the few days of the season in which
it would be safe to remain, was very uncertain, and barely
probable. The whales were retreating towards the north pole,
where they could not be pursued, .and, though seen in numbers on one day, they would disappear on the next; and, even
when seen in greatest numbers, their capture was uncertain.
By this, transaction, the vessels were enabled to proceed at
once on their home voyage; and the certainty of a liberal salvage allowance for the property rescued will be ample compensation for the possible chance of greater profits, by refusing
their assistance in savin their neighbor's property.
It has ben contende, also, that the sale' was justifiable and
valid, because it was better for the interests of all concerned
to accept what was offered, than suffer a total loss. But this
argument prov es too much, as it would justify every sale to a
salvor. Courts of admiralty will enforce contracts made for
salvage service and salvage compensation, where the salvor
has not taken advantage of his power to make an unreasonable bargain; but" they will not tolerate the doctrine that a
salvor can take the advantage of his situation, and avail himself of the calamities of others to drive a bargain; nor will they
permit the performance of a public, duty to be turned into a
traffic of profit. .(See 1 Sumner, 210.) The general interests
of commerce will be much better promoted by requiring the
salvor to trust for compensation to the liberal recompense
usually awarded by courts for such services. We are of opinion, therefore, that the claimants have hot obtained a valid
title to the property in dispute, but must be treated as salvors.
2. As to the amount of salvage.
While we assent to the general rule stated by this court, in
Hobart v. Dorgan, (10 Peters, 119,) that "it is against policy
and public convenience to encourage appeals of this sort in
matters of discretion," yet it is equally true, that where the
law gives a party an appeal, he has a right to demand the conscientious judgment of the appellate court on every question
arising in the cause. Hence many cases are to be found where
the appellate court have either increased or diminished the
allowance of salvage originally made, even where it did not
"violate any of the just principles whichi should regulate the
subject." (See The Thetis, 2 Knapp, 410.)

* DECE 3ER TERM, 1856.
Post et az.

T. rTow

161

t al.

Where it is not fixed.by statute, the amount of salvage must
necessarily xest on an enlarged discretion, according to the
'circuinstances of each case..
The ease before us is properly one of derelict. In such cases,
it has frequently been asserted, as a general rule, that he compensation should not be more than half nor less than a third
of the property saved. But we agree with Dr. Lushington,
(The Florence, 20 E. L. and C. R., 622,) "that the reward in
derelict cases should be governed by the same principles as
other salvage cases--namely, danger to property, value, risk of
life,, skill, labor, and the duration of .the service;" and that
"9no valid reason can be assigned for fixing a reward for
salving derelict property at a moiety or any given proportion;
and that the true principle is, adequate reward, according to
the circumstances of.the case." (See, also' The Thetis, cited
above.)
The peculiar circumstances of this case, which .distinguish it
fiom all.others, and which would justify the most liberal allowance for salvage, is the distance from the home port, twenty:
seven thousand miles; and from the Sandwich Islands, the
nearest port of safety, five thousand miles. The transfer of
the property from the wreck required no extraordinary exertions or hazards, nor any great delay. The greatest' loss incurred was the possible chance, that before the season closed
M, the'salving vessels mightave taken a full -cargo of their
own oil. But we think this uncertain and doubtful spebulation will be fairly compensated by the certainty of a moiety
of the salved property at the first port of safety.. The libellants claiih only the balance, "after deducting salvage and
freight,'? conceding that, under the circumstances the salvors
were entitled to both. When the property was brought to a
port of safety, the salvage service was complete, and the salvors
should be allowted freight for carrying the owners' moiety over
twenty thousand miles. to a better market, at the home port.
this
%s case has presented very unusual circumstances, ant a&
we think the claimants have acted in gool faith in making
their defence, all the taxed costs should be paid out of the
fund in court.
The case is therefore remitted to the Circuit Court, to have
the amount due to .each party'adjusted, according to the principles stated.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York, and was argued by counsel.
VOL. XEX

11

162

SUPREME COURT.
.Dupont de Nemours t Co. v. Vance et al.

On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to have the amount due to each party adjusted,
according to the principles stated in the opinion of this court,
and that all the costs of said cause in this court, and in the
Circuit and District Courts, be paid out of the fund in the said
Circuit Court.

E. J.

DUPONT DE NEMOURS & Co., LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS,
JOHN VANCE ET AL., CLAIMANTS OF THE ]BRIG ANN ELIZABETH.

V.

To be seaworthy as respects cargo, the hull of a vessel must be so tight, stanch,
and strofig, as to resist the ordinary action of the sea during the voyage, without damage or loss of cargo.
.A jettison, rendered necessary by a peril of the sea, is a loss by such peril within
the meaning of the exception contained in bills of lading-aliter, if unseaworthiness of the vessel caused or contributed to the necessity for the jettison.
The owner of cargo jettisoned has a maritime lien on the vessel for the contributory share due from the vessel on an adjustment of the general average, which
lien may be enforced by a proceeding in rem in the admiralty.
Where the libel alleged a shipment of cargo under a bill of lading, and its non-delivery, and prayed process against the vessel, and the answer set up a jettison
" rendered necessary by a peril of the sea, and this defensive allegation was sustained by the court, it was held that the libellant was entitled to a decree for
the contributory share of general average due from the vessel.
'There are no technical rules of variance or departure in pleading in the admiralty.

THIs was an appeal from the Cirouit Court of the -United
.States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiiralty. As many'points were decided by this court which were not
aised in the court below, it is proper toe plain to the reader
how this happened.; and this will best be done by tracing the
nistory of the case from its commencement.
InDcember, 1852, Dupont de lNeriours & Co: shippdd at
their wharf, on the river Delaware, an invoice of gunipbwder
lit begs, &c., the -ialue at the place of shipment being, by the
invoice, $6,325. The articles were shipped on board the Ann
Elizabeth, bound to lNew Orleans, and owned by the claimant6
in this cause. Two bills bf lading were signed by the ,mate,
and delivered to the shippers. The brig sailed on December
:21 Aftr
1852.thq arrival of' the vessel at l~ew Orleans, the shippers

