262

SUPREME COURT.
BeU v. Heame et al.

and that the remedy can only be resorted to when the debtor
himself could iiaintain debt or indebitatus assumpsit; and
that the only issue which can be made upon an answer of the
garnishee is, indebitatus vel non. The Supreme Court of
Alabama have decided, in the cases cited, that merely equitable
demands or rights of action, not involving a debt or assumpsit,
are not the subject of the garnishee process. But the same
court has determined that money or effects in the hands of the
garnishee, which are fraudulently withdrawn from the creditors
of a defendant, may be reached, in an attachment or judgmen,
by that process. hazard v. Franklin, 2 Ala., 349; Lovely v.
Caldwell, 4 Ala., 684, and the civil code of Alabama, see.
2,523, provides explicitly for the attachment of a demand
similar to that existing in this case.
Judgment affirmed.

JonN

BELL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. COLUMBUS C. HEARNE,
SAMUEL R. HEARNE, AND SAMUEL H. DOCKERY.

The act of Congress of 1820 and regulations of the General Land Office of 181
direct the manner in which purchases of public land shall be authenticated by
the registers and receivers of the land offices.
Where the receiver gave a receipt in the name of John Bell, and the register made
two certificates of .purchase, one in the name of John Bell and the other in the
name of James Bell, the circumstances of the case show that the latter was an
error which was properly corrected by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office in the exercise of his supervisory authority; and he had a right to do thIs,
although a patent had been issued to James Bell, which had been reclaimed
from the register's office, and returned to the General Land Office to be cancelled.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana having decided against the validity of the patent
issued to John Bell, this court has jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section of
the judiciary act to review that judgment; and the ground of the decision of the
State court sufficiently appears upon the record.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court
It was argued by Mr. Baxter and Mr. Tohnson for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Lawrence and 31r. Taylor for the defendants.
The following notice of the points for the plaintiff in error is
taken from the brief of Mr. Baxter:
I. John Bell was the purchaser of the land from the United
States, andJames Bell had no right or interest in it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
BeU v. Hearie

253

aZ.

The receiver's receipt and his certificate prove the purchase
was made by John Bell, and vested in him all the inchoate title
which could be vested by the purchase.
It was the duty of the register to issue a certificate conforming to the receiver's receipt.
On this receilt, no certificate of purchase could lawfully be
given to any other person than John Bell-or his assignee; and
an assignment, to be acted on by the officers of the land
office, must be executed before the register, or a judge, or justice of the peace; must be preserved in the register's office
until certificate granted, and must then be sent to the Department. And in the certificate to the assignee the name of the
original purchaser must be inserted throughout, except in the
last entry, preceding the words -"shall be entitled." (See Circular to Registers of July 5, 1805f Land Laws, 2d vol., 257-'8;
do. May 5, 1821, 307; do. May 29, 1820, 302; May 5, 1831,
sec. 19, p. 446; sec. 32, pp. 451 and 466.)
No assignment by John Bell, the purchaser, to James Bell,
exists, nor is it pretended any ever was made. The insertion
of the name of James Bell in the register's certificate was a
mere misnomer.
The cancellation of this certificate affords stringent evidence
that this was a mere error, and it is confirmed by the fact that
when the patent was demanded, John Bell held the certiilcates, on the production of which the patent was to issue.
H. James Bell having no. right ur interest in this land, the
attempted sale- under the execution of St. John Fabre & Co.
against James Bell was a nullity, and created no estate, right,
or interest, in the supposed purchaser, Smith, or those claiming under him, and gave to him or them no right to demand
a patent, either to James Bell, or to them as assignees of James
Bell.
Code of Louisiana, article 2,427: "The sale of a thing belonging to another person is-null. It may give rise to damages, when the buyer knew not the thing belonged to another."
Under an execution, the interest of the debtor, only, in the
property can be sold. The right of a stranger to the record
and proceeding will not pass thereby.
]Tf. James Bell having no title or interest in this land, and
the pretended purchasers under the execution not having acquired any right or interest therein, John Bell was the only
person who could be'recognised by the United States as entitled to a patent, and the act of making. a patent in the. name
of James Bell was an accident, which, if uncorrected, would
defeat the contract of sale; but which, by the practice of the
lUnd office and the law of the land, might be corrected as long

254

SUPREME COURT.
BeU v. Hev-nz

d a.

as the patent was in the power of the land office. And if such
erroneous patent had been delivered, it might be returned and
cancelled; and if the holder refuses to deliver it up to be cancelled, the United States may institute proceedings to cancel
it, or may authorize the party injured to institute such proceedings in the name of the United States. (See Putnam's
Case, and Opinion of Mr. Wirt, 2 Land Laws, 27-8; Opinion
of Mr. Wirt, p. 24; Master's Case, pp. 32, 34; Opinion of Mr.
Butler, 86-7; Regulations, May 4 and 6, 1836, pp. 92-'3;
Opinion of Mr. Butler, pp. 123-'4.)
For the common-law doctrines, reference is made to the 17th
vol. Viner, p. 78, title Prerogative, letter (G b 2.)
The King's grant is void in five cases: 1st. When he is misinformed. 2d. Misrecital shall avoid it. 3d. If the King be
deceived in matter of fact or matter of law. 4th. Want of form.
5th. When the thing granted-is in the King, or comes to him
in another manner than he supposes.
In Barwick's-case, (5 Coke, 94,) it is said: "And it is a'
maxim, that if the consideration which is for the benefit of the
Queen, be it executed or be it executory, or be-it on record or
not on record, be not true or be not duly performed, or if prijudice may accrue to the Queen, by reason of the non-performance of it, the letters-patent are void."
In the case of the Alton Woods, (1 Coke Rep., 51 a,) it held,
if the King's grant cannot take effect, according to his intent,
it is void.
2 Williams Saunders's Rep., p. 72 q, note 4 to Underhill v.
Devereux, where a patent is granted to the prejudice of another's right, he may have a scirefac, to repeal it at the King's
suit, and the King is of right t6b permit the person prejudiced
to use his name. (Dyer, 276 b; 3 Lev., 220; Sir Oliver Butler's Case, 2 Vent., 344.)
Bill in equity will lie to decree a patent to be delivered up
and cancelled in a case of fraud, surprise, or gross irregularity
in issuing it. (Attorney General v. Vernon, I Vernon's Rep.,
277, 280, 281; Sawyer, Attorney General, v.Vernon, 1 Vernon's
Rep., 370, 386 to 892.)
n this, country, the proper proceeding is probably by bill in
equity; but whether by seire facis or bill in equity, is only a
question of form. In either case, the same results may be attained. "
But the law forces no man to .make a defence against conscience. A part who has wrongfully obtained a patent may
surrender it to be cancelled. (Comyn's Digest, vol. 5, title
Pat., letter [G,]p. 888.) "So, if a man surrenders his patent,
and it be cancelled, and a note of it endorsed, and afterwards

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Bell

v. Heaine

265

e al.

thesurr6nder enrolled, it shall be vacated by it." (Dy., 167 a;
R. Py., 179 b.)
. In Grant v Raymond, (6 Peters, 218,) this court held, that
a patent for a useful invention might be surrendered, and a
new patent issue. (See 0. J. Marshall's Opinioii, from page
240. to 244.) ,
In Shaw v. Cooper, (7 Peters, 292,) the same doctrine was
held. Both cases were before the act of 1836.
In the case at bar, John Bell had, by his contract of purchase, the'oniy rights which the United States could lawfully
recognise and carry into patent. He applied for his patent.
A patent in the name of James Bell was tendered to him. He
returned it to the Land Office. According to the regulations
of the Land Office and the common law, the Commissioner
held the patent in the name of James Bell void, cancelled it,
and issued a corrected patent in conformity with the contract
of sale to John Bell.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana has adjudged this cancelled patent valid, and superior to the corrected patent; and
the inquiry is, shall this judgment be reversed?
IV. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in
the case at bar adopts the decision of that court in Lott v. Prudhomme, (3 Rob., 294-'5-'6,) and applies it to this case, and
carries it to the exten't of declaring that the Commissioner of
the Land Office has no right to cancel a patent which has
passed the seal of the office; intimating the naked act of-cancellation is a fraud, and holding 'that the jurisdiction of the
Government of the United States over the subject is ended
when
the patent
sealed, and setting up the cancelled patent
as superior
to theiscorrected
patent issued to pass the title of
the United States.
1. We insist the Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in the
proposition "that the quiestion whether a patent which has issued from the Land Office of the United States may be annulled
for mistake or fraud, is, so far.as it concerns a citizen of Louisiana, to be solved by the laws of Louisiana."
a. The State of Louisiana has no laws which regulate the
grant of the lands of the United States, and no ofcers who
can grant these lands. Lands of the United States are granted
by the oficers of the United State6, acting under the laws of
the United States. All questions of the authority of those
officers, and of the conformity of their proceedings to law,
must be solved by the laws of the United States.
I b. The United States has an interest in the sale of these
lands as vendor,- and may incur, by the misconduct of he
;officoes, the responsibility of a defaulting vendor. There must

256

SUPRENE COURT.
Bdl v. Near= a al

therefore be, in her jurisdiction as a Government, a power to
correct the errors of her officers to her prejudice, and to the
prejudice of persons contracting with her. And she is not denuded of 'this jurisdiction when the question whether a patent
issued to her prejudice is to be solved.
c. In Wilcbx v. Jackson, the court says, the question, whether the property has passed, is to be resolved by the laws of the
United States.
But fraud, laces, accident, and mistake, may so defeat the
intended contract of sale, that the patent may be void, and the
title not pass by it. (Alton Wood's Case, 1 Coke, 44 a, b;
Magdalen College Case, 11 Coke, 72.)
2. We insist, the propositioh of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, that "the moment a patent has passed the great seal, it
is beyond the power of the officers of the General Government," is erroneous.
a. This proposition seems to assume that the seal of the Land
Office is analogous to the great seal of England.
In England, the King is the fountain of justice, of honor,
of office, and of privilege; and the great seal is the emblem of
his royal authority and dignity. The powers of the court
of chancery flow from the great seal. (1 Strange, 157, 158.)
And all grants of land, held by the King in right of his
crown, are to be under the great seal. (Lane's Case, 2 Coke's
Rep., 16.
In the Land Office of the United States there is no seal analogous to 'the great seal. The public lands are not held jure
coroner, to be disposed of as matter of royal bounty, but are
held in trust for the States; (Pollard v. Hagan, 3 Howard,
212;) and are to be disposed of to purchasers, by contracts of
sale, under the laws of the United States.
In England there are many seals. (17 Viner, pp. 67 to 77.)
If an analogy to some of the seals in England must be found,
it will be best found in the case of Attorney General v. Vernon,
(1 Vernon, 391.)
b. The effect of a patent sealed by the recorder, and the
power of the Commissioner over it, must be ascertained from
our Constitution and laws.
The Constitution makes it the duty of the President to take
care that the laws are faithfully executed.
The act re-organizing the Land Office (1 L. Laws, 553) confers on the Commissioner, under the direction of the President,
the executive powers and duties prescribed by law, and appertaining to the sale and survey of the public lands, and the
issuing of all patents for grants. Section i, sect. 4, makes it
the duty of the recorder, in pursuance of instructions from the

DEENMBER. TERM, ISM.*
Bellv. Heamt

A~41.

Commissioner, to affix and certify the seal of the Land Office,
to attend to the correct engrossing and transmission of patents.
The act of th recorder is a ministerial act. The-system of
disposing of our public lands is a system of bargain and sale.
The contract is made by the purchase from the receiver; and
al-the st6ps subsequently taken in the Land Office are merely
to insure to the purchaser a title to the land for which he has
paid.
These proceedings are all to be taken under the executive
discretion of the Commissioner, acting under the direction of
the President; and there must be such enlarged discretion as
will protect the purchaser from accident or errors occurring in
the office.
The purchaser, standing in the relation of vendee, has the
right to see that the title made out for him conveys the thing
purchased. He cannot be compelled to accept a patent which
does not give him the land which he has bought and paid for.
From these relations of contracting parties it follows that
the title is 6onsummated by the delivery and acceptance of tho
patent. (Bagnell v. Broderick, 1S Peters, 450.)
There cannot be, by any fancied analogies of the English
law, a magic in the errors or even miscQnduct of any clerk or
ministerial officer through whose hands thb title may pass,
which will defeat the rights of the purchaser, or prevent the
President from exercising his duty of seeing that the laws are
faithfully executed.
We contend, then, that the practice of receiving back and
cancelling patents which fail, from accident'or mistake, to effect the designed sale, is legal; and the act of cancellation by
the Commissioner in this case was a lawful act...
The judgment of the' Supreme Court of Louisiana, setting
up the cancelled patent, is erroneous, and should be reversed.
'Mir. Lawrence for defendants in error.
It appears from the recordl that on the 3d of July, 1889, a
certificate of purchase was issued by the register of the land
office.at Natchitoches, in the name of James Bell, the brother
of the plaintiff in error, which certificate was transmitted by
the register to the General Land Office at Washington, and
upon this certificate a patent was issued to James Bell on the
10th of July, 1844, and was transmitted to the register at
Natehitoches for delivery, where it remained uintil 1849, when
it was delivered to the agent of Mr. John Bell, and'by.the ]at'ter was filed in the General Land Office in 1850, to be cancelled; and a patent issued in hig name, upon a duplicate certificate and receiver's -receipt, in his possession and in his name.
voL. xIx.
17

258

SUPREME COURT.
Bel v. Bearne et al.

In the mean time, the land had been sold under execution, as
the land of James Bell, and had come by mesne conveyances to
the defendaufs in error.
I maintain that the Commissioner had no right to cancel a
atent which had passed the seal, and been transmitted for
elivery. It is not pretended that there is any statutory authority giving him this power. On the-pontrary; like all other
officers of the General Government, having only so much
power as is expressly conferred, and this power of cancelling
being neither expressed nor necessarily implied, he could not
be invested with this authority, unless, upon general principles
of law, it ivould be incident to his office. ' But we find that, upon the principles of the common law,
both in this country and in England, it has been constantly
held that a patent which has passed the great seal can only be
vacated by a scirefacias, or bill in equity. In England, where
letters patent are of record in the chancery, a scirefacias would
be proper, but here we should resort to a bill in equity. In
the case of Jackson v. Lawton, (10 Johns., 24,) Chief Justice
Kent, after a most elaborate examination of the authorities,
both in England and this country, held, that a patent issued
by mistake could not be avoided, except by scirefacias, or bill
in equity, or some equivalent proceeding. And this case has
ever since been the leading authority on the subject. In
Maryland, it was held that so long as a grant remained unre.pealed by chancery, it must prevail at law against a younger
grant. (2 H. and M., 141.)
Now, the practice of the Department has been in accordance
with these principles, and this case of Jackson v. Lawton has
been acted on again and again. The Department has even refused to issue a second patent when another patent, issued by
mistake, has been unrepealed. (See the opinions of Attorneys
General Berrien ana Legare.) I conclude, then, that there is
no statutory provision giving the power to the Commissioner;
that the decisions at common law and the practice of the Department are against it.
But even if the Commissioner had the naked power to cancel a patent issued by mistake, he could not do it to the injury
of those who had purchased for valuable consideration, without notice. And the very possibility that there might be purclasers bonafide, without any notice of the mistake, illustrates
the propriety of a bill in equity for the vacating of the patent.
And -no court of equity would vacate a patent, as against innocent purchasers, although it should be made manifest that it
had issued by mistake. Yet this monstrous power is claimed for
the Commissioner -of the Land Office, that by the mere sweep

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

259

BeU v. Hearn e*a a.

of his pen, upon ex parts testimony, without any notice to others in interest, and without any record of his reasons, he may
cut off, without a'hearing and without a remedy, persons who
have bought and paid for lands standing upon the records of
his own office in the name of him whose title they have purchased. This very case illustrates the enormity of this pretension. Here
were parties
possession
land which
had been
conveyed
through
severalin persons
to of
them,
and which
was
originally
solditasout
theasproperty
James
(who
had, by
the
way,
pointed
his,) andofin
whoseBell,
hame
it stood
upon
the records of the Land Office. l~Tw, if the Conmissioner, in
the retired apartment of his office, could, without any notice to
these parties, cancel this patent, as to ther so that they could
not prove its former existence as a legal title under which
theyhad innocently purchased and gone into possession, but
should be met with the suggestion that such patent had been
cancelled, and was therefore of no legal effect, why, then, without any fault of their own, they could, without a hearing, be
deprived of what they had bona fide bought, and were in the
actual possession of, by the mere sic jubet of the Commissioner.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
under the 25th section of the judiciary act of September,
1789.
The plaintiff commenced a petitory action in the District
Court of Caddo parish, Louisiana, for a parcel of land in the
possession of the defendants. He claims the land by a purchase from the United States, and exhibits their patent for it,
bearing date in June, 1850, with his petition. The defendant
Wearne)
thetoaction,
answered
the United
Httes hadappeared
sold theto
land
Jamesand
Bell,
and as that
the property
of

Ja~nes Bell it had been legally sold by the sher of Cadd,
under
valid judgment
an execution
ainst
him,
a
personaunder
whom he (Hearne)
derives his
title
wasand
thethat
p~urchaser at the
sale.
Anumber
of parties
were citedwas
in
warranty,
andsheriff's
answered
to
the
same
effect.
A judgment
given for the
defendants
in the
District
and Supreme Courts;
and upon the judgment in {he last, the plaintiff
prosecutes this
writ of error.

title of
plaintiff
consists
the duplicate
theThe
r~ceipts of
receiver
of the
theland
office
at I of
at!hitoches,
Louisiana,
1,270,) dated in July, 1839, by which he acknowledges the(o.
receipt, from the plaintif, of full payment for the lands described
ain
the receipt and petition; a patent certifcate, of the same
date and number, from the register of that office, certifying

SUPREME -COURT.
.BeUv. Heame et al.

the purchase of the plaintiff, and'his right to a patent; and a
patent, issued in due formr, for the said lands, in pursuance of
the Act of Congress and the patent certificate.
The case of the defendants originates in these facts: The
register of the land office at Katchitoches, in making up his
duplicate certificate of purchase, to be returned to the General
Land Office, inserted the name ofJames Bell for that of John
Bell. That certificate was sent to the General Land Office,
with the monthly returns of the register, and in July, 1844, a
patent was issued in the name of James Bell, and sent to the
register at Natchitoches, who retained it in his office till 1849.
In 1849, John Bell sent to the office of the register his duplicate receipts, and the patent in the name of James Bell was
delivered to him. Upon a representation of the facts to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, this patent was cancelled, and a new one issued to the plaintiffi
It appears, from the proof in the case, that the plaintiff had
a brother, named James Bell, who was his agent for making
the entry, and that the land was sold in March, 1844, as his
property, by the sheriff of Caddo, as is stated in the answers
of the defendants.
The act.of Congress of the 24th April, 1820, providing for
the sales of the public lands of the United States, enacts,
"That the purchaser at private sale shall produce to the
register of the land office a receipt of the Treasurer of the
United States, or from the receiver of public moneys of the
district, for the amount of the purchase money on any tract,
before he shall enter the same at the land office." At various
times, since the passage of the act, the modes of conductihg
sales at the different land offices of the United States have
been prescribed by the Commissioner, and the evidence to be
afforded to the purchaser designated. The circular issued in
1831 contains the instructions under which the local officers
were acting at the dite of this entry. The instructions pertinent to this case are, that "when an individual applies to purchase a tract of land, he is required to file an application in
writing therefor; on such application the register endorses his
certificate, showing that the land is vacant and subject to entry, which certificate the applicant carries to the receiver, and
is evidence on which the receiver permits payment to be made,
and issues his receipt therefor; the duplicate of this is handed
to the purchaser, as evidence of payment; and which should be
surrendered when a patent, forwarded from the General Land
Office, is delivered to him. The other receipt is handed to the
reister, who must immediately indicate the sale on his township plat, and enter the same on his tract book, and is trans-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

261

BeU v. He ne etad.

mitted to the General Land Office with the monthly abstract
of sales and certificates of purchase."
The certificates of purchase are made according to forms
furnished by the General Land Office. One is issued to the
puachaser, and another is retained, to be sent to the Commissioner. They should be duplicates; and the instructions to
the register in regard to them are, "that the designation of
the traet, in the certificates of purchases, is always'to be ix
not in figures.
certificates
be filled
up in
be to
taken
in spelling
great
care is to are
hand, andThe
awriting,
plain, legible
the names of the purchasers.

The monthly return must al-

ways be accompanied by the receiver's receipts and rgister's
certificates of purchase." From this statement of the act of
Congress and the regulations of the Land Office, it will be seen
that the embarrassment in which this title is involved proceeds
from an error committed by the register at Natchitoches in
making up the duplicates of his certificate of purchase-the
duplicate intended for the General Land Office-and, from
which the monthly abstract was prepared.
The plaintiff was nowise respoiasible for this. He had paid
his money into the receiver's office, and obtained the receipt
prescribed by the act of Congress of 1820, before cited.
He had obtained his certificate of purchase, evincing his
title to a patent certificate. At this stage of the proceeding,
the register of the land office, in completing his office papers,
and in making up his returns for Washington city, committed a
mistake, which was not detected by the officers at Natchitoches
in comparing their returns, (as they are ordered to do,) and
eluded the vigilance of the officers at Washington. It was
discovered at -Natchitoches, when an agent of the plaintiff
applied for the patent, and surrendered his duplicate receipt
and certificate.
-Jt.was then discovered that the christian name.of the plaintiff had beeninaccurately set out in the returns at Washing-ton and the patent. The Supreme Court of Louisiana say: "lt
appears, from the evidence, that the plaintiff and his brother
James Bell purchased the land in dispute from the United
States on the same day-3d July, 1839-and that the patent
certificates were issued in their respective names by the register of the land office at Natchitoches, Louisiana, bearing the
same number."
We interpret the papers from the-land office differently from
the Supreme Court. There is no evidence, in our opinion, of
more than one sale-that evinced by the receiver's receiptand, in th.at receipt, John Bell, the plaintif4 is named'as the
purchaser. We think thete was but one certificate of pur-

262

SUPREME, COURT.
.Bd. v. Heam d aL

c Ase issued to a purchaser-that in favor of John Bell. The
certificate of purchase which contains the name of James Bell
is found in the General Land Office. If that was intended for
a James Bell, there should have been another for John Bell.
But there is only a single certificate there, and the conclusion
is irresistible, that the name James was entered by mistake for
John. We find no evidence in the record to show that James
Bell held any evidence of a purchase.
Whatever appearance of a title he had, is owing to the mistake in the duplicate certificate returned to the General Land
Office, and the patent issued in his name. But this patent
was never delivered to him. The question then arises, had
the Commissioner of the General Land Office authority to receive from John Bell the patent erroneously issued in the
name of James Bell, and to issue one in the proper name of
the purchaser? And the cuestion, in our opinion, is exceedingly.clear. The Commissioner of the General Land Office
exercises a general superintendence over the subordinate officers of his department, and is clothed with liberal powers of
control, to be exercised for the purposes of justice, and to prevent the consequences of inadvertence, irregularity, mistake,
and fraud, in the important and extensive operations of that
officer for the disposal of the public domain. The power exercised in this case is a power to correct a clerical mistake, the
existence of which is shown plainly by the record, and is a
necessary power in the administration of every department
Our conclusion is, that the Supreme Court of Louisiana erred
in denying the validity of this title, and in conceding any effect
or operation to the certificate of purchase or patent issued in
the name of James Bell, as vesting a title in a person bearing
that name.
It is objected that this court has no jurisdiction over this
judgment of the Supreme Court of Lo0uisiana.
The plaintiff claimed the land described in his petition, under a purchase made from the United States, and produced
muniments of title issued by their authority, and this title is
pronounced to be inoperative by the District and Supreme
Courts of Louisiana.
Does this appdar by the record before us? The record in
the Supreme Court of Lduisiqna purports to be a true and
faithful transcript of the *documents filed, orders made, proceedings had, and evidence adduced, on the trial in the District
Court. The Supreme Court possesses the right, and is under
the obligation of examining questions of fact as well as of law,
and to state the reasons of their judgment. The statement
of the evidence adduced is taken as an equivalent for a state-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Biardon v. TA.

268

ft of Bosto.

ment of the facts by the district judge in the practice of that
court. It clearly appears that the ground upon which the
judgment in the Supreme Court was given was the invalidity
of the title of the plaintiff because an older patent had been
issued in favor of James Bell. We think this court has jurisdiction. (Armstrong v. Treasurer, &c., 16 Pet., 261; Grand
Gulf R. R. and B. Co. v. Marshall, 12 How., 165; Almonester
v. Kenton, 9 HL, 1.)
Judgment reversed. Cause remanded.

THOMAS RICHARDSON, PLAINIFF IN ERROR, V. THE CITY oF
BOSTON.
In Massachusetts, a former verdict and judgment in an action on the case for a
nuisance is not conclusive evidence of the plaintiff's right to recover in a subsequent action for the continuance of the same nuisance.
The plea of the general issue in actions of trespass or case does not necessarily put
the title in issue.
But the former verdict, though not conclusive, is permitted to go to the jury as
prima facie or persuasive evidence.
Where there is some evidence tending to establish a fact in Tssue, the jury must
judge of its sufficiency.
It is the duty of the court to construe written documents, but the application of
their provisions to external objects is the peculiar province of the jury.
[RL

JUSTICE CURTIS, HA ING BEEN OF COUN EL, DID NOT SIT IN THIS CAUS.]

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island, to
which, it had been removed from the district of Mas achusetts.
It was aii action of trespass on the case brought by Richardson against the city of Boston, for the continuance of a nuisance which is described in the case of the city of Boston v.
Lecraw, (17 Howard, 426.) He was the owner of two wharves
between which the drain in question was erected, whereby the
access to his wharves by boats or vessels was very materially
interrupted. The case was tried at June term, 1855, and resulted in a judgment for the defendants. The bill of exceptions taken by the .counsel of Richardson will be mentioned
hereafter.
As one of the important qu stions in the case was, whether
*or not the record of a former case between the same parties
could be given in evidence, it is proper to see what that record
was.

At June term, 1853, a case was tried between the same
parties, having also been removed from the district of Massachusetts t Rhode Island. The opinion of the district judge

