64

SUPREME COURT.
Steve= v. Gladding

1 Proud.

JAMES STEVENS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROYAL GLADDING AND
ISAAC T. PROUD, TRADING UNDER THE NAME AND FIRM OF
GLADDING & PROUD, DEFENDANTS.
Where no- error appears upon the record in the proceedings of the Circuit Court,
the case having been left to a jury, and no instructions asked from the court,
the judgment below must be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island.
The plaintiff in error, Stevens, vas the same person who was
the appellant in the case of Stevens v. Cady, reported in 14
Howard, 529.
In the present suit, he brought an action, being a citizen of
Connecticut, against Gladding & Proud, booksellers of Providence, in'Rhode Island. It was a qui tam action in which he
claimed two th6usand dollars,. because the defendants published and sold two. thousand copies of his map of the State of
Rhode Island, for which he had obtained a copyright.
The defendants pleaded not guilty, and the case went on to
trial before a jury, who found a verdict for the defendants. In
the.-progress of the .rial, there was no prayer to the court to instruic1 the jury upon a .natter of law, nor any bill of exceptions
whatever. -

Stevens managed the case for himself, aiid it would be difficult to conjecture the reason for suing out a writ of error, if it
were not for the following assignment of error which was
attached to the record:
This was a qui tam action at law, in debt, for the forfeitures
and penalties incurred by the defendahts for the violation of a
copyright granted to the plaintiff in error, on the 23d day of
April, 1881, under an act of Congress entitled "An act to
amend the several acts respecting copyrights, 'approved 3d February, 1831."
The plaintiff's title to this copyright is set forth in the declaration herein. The principal questions in this case are,: Was
the verdict and judgment correct? Was the sale of the engraved plates the sale of a copyright? Did such sale authorize
the defendants, or any other person, to print and sell this literary production, still subsisting under a copyright in this complainant?
The very learned opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States; delivered by Mr. Justice Nelson, in bill in chancery,
James Stevens v. Isaac H. Cady, 14 Howard, 528, is ample and
decisive on this subject.
JAMES STEVENS,
For himself.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Stmen

65

v. Glading It Proud.-

In this court, the following brief was filed by.-fr. Ame, no
counsel appearing for the plaintiff in error:
The record iin this case shows, that at the lNovember term
of the Circuit Court for the district of Rhode Island,. 1848, the
plaintiff in error brought a qui tam action against the defendants ii error, to recover penalties and forfeitures alleged to
have bten incurred by them under the Act of Congress passed
February 3d, 1831, enfitled "An'act fo amend the several'acts
respecting copyrights;" that at the June term of said court,
1860, the cause w submitted, upon the general issue, to a
jury,
who, in due form, returned a verdict an favor of the defendants in error, of "not guilty;" whereupon judgment was
coststo of
recove
have no
anderror
that they
entered,record
knowledge
thesuit.
nor,
in rlaw,
discloses
error of
any
was
counsel,
or of their
in error
the defendants
of.The
of exbill
a
of
law brought upon the record by the allowance but to confirm
theaefore,
choice,
no
has
ceptions. The court
SAeL Ai.S,
the judgment below, with costs.
.ForDefendants in .Error.
Mr. Justice Mc EAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the district
Of Rhode Island.
An action was.brought by the plaintiff in the Circuit Court,
of the
alleging that he was the author of a topographicl map
and Providence Plantations,hesulrveyed
* tate of Rhode Island
secured
trigonometrically by himself, the copyright f which
"An

under the act of Congress of the 3dApril, 1881, entitled
to
adt, he
of stadand
a1 the requistes
withrespecting
complance
copyrights;",
specilthe
avers
several acts.
to aamend
act
And he
vest in him the copyright of said map or chart.
two thousand
aharges the defendants with havingpublished
the
•copies of his map, and sold them within two years before
secured
right,
commencement of the action, in violation of his
as aforesaid, to his damage ofur thousand dollars.
case was
The
not guilty.
pleaded
defendants
judgment
Asubmitted
gusty.
of not
a verdict
who returned
a jury,
to The
costs.
for
plaintifi
the
was entered against
Swrit f error was procured, and bond given to prosecute
it with effect.
the
The defendant in proper person assigns for error, "that
error,
in
plaintif
the
against
verdict and judgment were given
for
whereas the verdict and jurgment should have been given
this
on
judgment
the
of
the plainti and he prays a reversal

the
ground.",
In a very short argument, the plaintiff in error says,
'VOL.XIX.-5

66

SUPREME COURT.
Lathrop v. Tuon.

principal questions are: 'Was the verdict and judgment correct? Was the male of the engraved plate, on execution, the
sale of the copyright? Did such sale authorize the defendants,
or any other person, to print and sell this literary production,
still subsistino under a copyright in the plaintiff. And he
refers to 14 Ioward, 528, Stevens v. Cady. In that case this
court held that a sale of the copperplate for a map, on execution, does not authorize the purchaser to print the map.
Two or three depositions, not certified with the record, were
handed to the court as having been omitted by the clerk in
making up the record; but it does not appear that they were
used in the trial before the Circuit Court; and if it did so appear, no instructions were asked of the court to the jury, to
1 the foundation of error.
It is to be regretted that the plaintiff in error, in undertaking
to manage his own case, has omitted to take the necessary steps
to protect his interest. There is no error appearing on the
record which can be noticed by this court; the judgment of
the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with costs.

C. C. LATHROP, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHARLES JUDSON
Where exceptions are -not taken in the progress of the trial in the Circuit Courtr
and do not appear on the record, there is no ground for the action of this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the 'United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The suit was commenced by Charles Judson, a citizen of
New York, to recover from Lathrop the amount of a judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in June,
1851, for $1,810, with interest from the 2d of May, 1845. The
plaintiff attached to his petiti6n a copy of the record of the
judgment. The suit was commenced on 6th May, 1854.
On the 18th of May, the defendant filed the following exception and plea:
To the Non. the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Ffth Circuit and Eastern -Districtof Louisiana:
The exception and plea to the jurisdiction of Charles C. Lathrop, of New Orleans, to the petition filed against him in
this hondrable court, by Charles Judson, of the State of New
York.
This respondent alleges, that this honorable court has nojurisdiction of the suit instituted in this matter, the same

