834

SUPREME COURT.
Bryan et al. v. Forayth.

This case was like the preceding, and they were argued together.
For the reasons given in the first of them, the court directs
the reversal of the judgment in the court below, in this case.

WILLIAM

F.

BRYAN AND RUDOLPHUS Ro0sE, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. R OBERT FORSYTH.

By the acts of Congress passed on the 15th of May, 1820, and March 3d, 1823, provision was made, that each of the settlers in Peoria, Illinois, should be entitled
to a village lot, and the surveyor of public lands was directed to designate upon
a plat the lot confirmed to each claimant.
The act of 1823 conferred on the grantee an incipient title; and when the survey
was made and approved, by which the limits of the lot were designated, the title
then became capable of sustaining an action of ejectment, even before a patent
was issued.
In the interval between 1823 and the survey, a patent was taken out, which was
issued subject to all the rights of persons claiming under the act of 1823. This
patent was controlled by the subsequent survey.
But although it was controlled by the subsequent survey, yet the patent was a feesimple title upon its face, and sufficient to sustain a plea of the statute of limitations in Illinois, which requires that possession should be by actual residence on
the land, under a connected title in law or equity, deducible of record from the
United States, &d.
The American State Papers, published by order of Congress, may be read in evidence, in the investigation of claims to land.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Ballance and Mr. Johnson for the plaintiffs in error, and submitted on a printed argument by Mr.

Williams for the defendant.
Mr. Justice CATROI delivered the opinion of the court.
Forsyth sued Bryan and Rouse in ejectment for part of lot
Nqo. 7, in the town of Peoria, in the State of Illinois. The
action -was founded on a patent to Forsyth, from the United
States, dated the 16th day of December, 1845, which patent
was given in evidence on the trial in the Creuit Court. It was
admitted that the defendants were in possession when they
were sued, and that they held possession within the bounds of
the patent. To overcome this primafacietitle, the defendants
gave in evidence a patent from the United States to John L.
Bogardus, containing twenty-three acres, dated January 5th,
1838, which included lot No. 7. To overreach this elder patent, the plaintiff relied on an act of Congress, passed May 15,

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

835

Bryan et al. v. Forsyth.

1820, for the relief of the inhabitants of the village of Peoria,
providing that every person who claims a lot in said villacge
shall, on or before the first day of October next, deliver to te
register of the land office for the district of Edwardsville a
notice in writing of his .or her claim; and it was made the duty
of the register to make a report to the Secretary of the Treasury of all claims filed, with the substance of the evidence in
support thereof, and also his opinion, and such remarks respecting the claims as he might think proper to make; which report, together with a list of the claims which, in the opinion
of the register, ought to be confirmed, shall be laid by the Secretary befoie Congress, for their determination.
The report was made, and laid before Congress, in January,
1821. As respected lot No.7, (a part of which is in dispute,)
the xegister reported that Thomas Forsyth claimed it; that it
was three hundred feet square, French measure, situate in the
village of Peoria, and, bounded eastwardly by a street; separating it from the Illinois river; northwardly by a cross street,
westwardly by a back street, and southwardly by a lot claimed
by Jacques Mette. The remark of the register is: "I part of
this lot must have been embraced by the lot claimed by Augustine Rogue." Rogue's claim (Io. 2) was for a lot of about
an arpent, and bounded, says the register, northwardly by a
lot occupied by Maillette, eastwardly by a road separating it
from Illinois river, and southwardly and westwardly by the
prairie.
The register reported on seventy lots in all. A survey to
designate boundaries among the claimants was indispensable,
as they were in considerable confusion. Congress again legislated on the subject, by act of Maci3i 3,1823, and provided
that each of the settlers, whose names were contained in the report, who had settled a village lot prior to the first of January,
813, should be entitled thereto; the lot so settled on and improved,- not to exceed two acres; and where it exceeded two
acres, such claimant should be confirmed in a quantity not exceeding ten acres. It was made the duty :of the surveyor of
publiclands for the district, to cause a survey to be made of
the several lots, and to designate on a plat thereof the lot confirmed and set apa'rt to each claimant, and forward the same to
the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall (says the act) cause
patents to be issued in favor of each claimant, as in other
cases.
The survey' was made in 1840, by order of the surveyor general of Illinois and Missouri, which was duly returned, ap,proved, and recorded. We are of opinion that the act of 1823
conferred on the grantee an incipient title, and reserved to the

836

SUPREME COURT.
Bryan d aL v. Forsyth.

executive department administering the public lands the authority to settle the boundaries by actual survey among the
claimants; and until this was done, the courts of justice could
not interfere and establish boundaries. It was competent for
Conigress to provide, that before a title should be given to a
confirmee, the exact limits of his confirmation should be ascertained by a survey executed by authority of the United States.
(West v. Cochran, 17 How., 415.)
When the surveys were made, and the plats returned and
approved, and recorded by the surveyor general of Illinois and
Missouri, and recognised as valid at the General Land Office,
(as the patent to Forsyth shows it was,) it bound the parties to
it, the confirmee and the United States; nor can either side be
heard to deny, that the land granted by the act of 1823 is the
precise lot Forsyth was entitled to; such being the settled
doctrine of this court. (Menard's Heirs v. Massey, 8 How.,
313.) lNeither can Bogardus or his assignee deny that he was
concluded by the survey. His patent grants the land to him
in fee, "subject, however, to all the riglhts of any and all persons claiming under the act of Congress of 3d March, 1823,
entitled 'An act to confirm certain claims to lots in the village
of Peoria, in the State of Illinois."' This patent is the .only
title set up by the defendants below; by its terms, all power to
perfect the title of Forsyth, according to the act of 1823, was
reserved to and retained by the department of public lands, as
effectually after the Bogardus patent was issued as before.
The survey having bound the United States, and concluded
Bogardus, Forsyth had a title by virtue of the acts of 1820 and
1823, and the survey, which was of a legal character; and he
could maintain an action of ejectment on it, even had no patent
issued. This is true beyond controversy, if the action had been
prosecuted in i State court, where the State laws authorized
suits in ejectment on imperfect titles. (Ross v. Borland, 1 Pet.,
655; Chouteau v. Eckhard, 2 How., 372.)
But it is insisted that in the courts of the United States a
different rule applies, and that, as a patent carries the fee, it is
the better title. The case of Robinson v. Campbell (8 Wheat.,
212) is supposed to be to this effect. There, the conflicting
patents were made by the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the
defendant attempted to prove that a settlement had been made
on the land in dispute by one Fitzgerald, and which preference
right had been assigned to Martin, who obtained a certificate
from the commissioners for adjusting titles to unpatented
lands; which certificate was of anterior date to the junior
patent, and was the source of title. It was nothing more than
evidence that Martin had a preference to purchase the land, if

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

337

Bryan etat. v. Forsyt.

he saw proper to do so; and was not competent evidence in
an action of ejectment, according to the laws of -Virginia, or
even of Tennessee. It was not an entry founded on consideration, but a right of abating an equity at the discretion of the
settler. lNeither in Virginia nor Kentucky (where the Virginia
land laws prevail) is the defendant allowed to go behind the
patent in a court of law, in order to give the patent a date
from that of the entry on which the patent was founded.
The question here is, on the effects of acts of Congress
confirming claims to lands as valid, by which legislation the
Government is concluded; and as respects these, it is settled,
that after a survey is duly made, approved, and recorded at
the surveyor general's office, an action of ejectment may be
maintained on such titles in the courts of the United States.
It is a goodprimafacietitle. (Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How.,
313; Le Bois v. Bramell, 4 How., 456; Bissell v. Penrose, 8
How., 317.) In Stoddard v. Chambers, this court held "that
a confirmation by act of Congress vests in the confirmee the
right of the United States, and a patent, if issued, could only
be evidence of this." Other cases followed this decision. By
the third section of the act of July 4, 1836, it isprovided that
a patent shall issue to the confirmee in cases confirmed by that
act. In this respect, the provisions of the acts of 1823 and
1836 are alike.
Of course the patent in this instance can relate to a title
which is valid against another title unaided by the younger
patent.
This disposes of the exception taken by the defendants below to the ruling of the court, that Forsyth's title was superior
to that of Bogardus.
They next ask the court to instruct the jury, that by the
laws of Illinois -they had such title as would bar an action of
ejectment after seven years, accompanied by actual residence
on the land sued for; and if the jury believe from the evidence
that the defendants have §o long had said possession, the
plaintiff cannot succeed in this suit. There were two other
instructions asked, requiring the court to instruct the jury
that the plaintiff's action was barred by the act of limitations
of twenty years.
The court refused to instruct as requested; "but, on the
contrary, instructed the jury that the patent to Bogardus did
not grant or convey the ground in controversy; and it being
conceded that it was the only-title the defendant had, there is
no such title as -under the statute of limitations protects the.
possession of the defendants." This instretion was founded
on an exception in the patent to Bogardus. It grants to hni,
VOL. XIX.

22

SUPREME COURT.
Bryan et al. v.

orqt.

and to his heirs and assigns, forever, "subject, however, to all
the rights of any and all persons under the act of Congress of
March 3d, 1823, entitled 'An act to confirm certain claims to
lots in the village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois.' "
When this patent was made, in 1838, the village lots had not
been surveyed, and those that interfered with the land granted
to Bogardus might never be claimed. Subject to this contingency he took his patent, and had a title in fee till 1840, when
the village title of Forsyth was ripened into the better right.
After that, those claiming under Bogardus held the position
of one who claims protection by the act of limitations under a
younger patent against an elder one. He has only the appearance of title. The patent to .Bogardus was a fee-simple title
on its face, and is such title as will afford protection to those
claiming under it, either directly, or, having a title connected
with it, with possession for seven years, as required by the
statute of Illinois. The court below erred in cutting off this
defence.
In the progress of the trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff
offered in evidence the printed report of Edward Coles, the
register of the land office at Edwardsville, as found in the
American State Papers, vol. 3, from pages 421 to 431, inclusive, to which the defendant objected, because it was not,
-without proof of its authenticity, legal evidence. But the
-court overruled the objection, and. the report was given in
,evidence to the jury, to which ruling the defendants excepted.
These State Papers were published by order of Congress, and
.selected and edited by the Secretary of the Senate and Clerk
of the House. They contain copies of legislative and executive
,documents, and are as valid evidence as the originals are from
which they were copied; and it cannot be denied that a record
,of the report of Edward Coles, as found in the printed journals
,of Congress, could be read on mere inspection as evidence that
it was the report sent in by the Secretary of the Treasury.
'The competency of these documents as evidence in the investigation of claims to lands in the courts of justice has not been
controverted for twenty years, and is not open to controversy.
It is ordered that the judgment be reversed, and the cause
remanded fir another trial.
Mr. Justice McLEAN dissenting.
Sometime during the late war with England, a company of
militia in the service of the United States, at Peoria, in Illinois,
taking offence at the inhabitants of the village, burnt it.
Congress, with the view of ascertaining the extent of the
injury and the names of the sufferers, on the 15th May, 1820,

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Bryan d aZ. v. For y .

passed an act, "that every person, or the legal representatives
of every person, who claims a lot or lots in the village of
Peoria, in the State of Illinois, shall, on or before the first day
of October next, deliver to the register -of the land office for
the district of Edwardsville a notice in writing of his or her
claim; and it shall be the duty of the said register to make to
the Secretary of the Treasury a report of all claims filed with
the said register, with the substance of the evidence thereof;
and also his opinion, and such remarks respecting the claims
as he may think proper to make; which report, together with
a list of the claims which in the opinion of the said register
ought to be confirmed, shall be laid by the Secretary of the
Treasury before Congress, for their determination."
The report was made, as required in the above act, by E.
Coles, Esq., register, on the 10th of November, 1820. By that
report, No. 7, Thomas Forsyth claims "a lot of three hundred
feet in front by three hundred feet in depth, French measure,
in the village of Peoria, and-bounded eastwardly by a street
separating it from the Illinois river, northwardly by a cross
street, westwardly by a back street, and southwardly by a lot
claimed by Jacques Mette."
On the 3d of March, 1823, Congress passed an act, which
declares, "that there is hereby granted to each of the French
and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers, in the village of
.Peoria, in the State of Illinois, whose claims are contained in
a report made by the register of the land ofce at Edwardsvile, in pursuance of the act of Congress approved May the
15th, 1820, and who had settled a lot in the village aforesaid
prior to the 1st day of January, 1813, and who had not heretofore received a confirmation of claims or donation of any tract
of land or village lot from the United States, the lot so settled
on and improved, where the same shall not exceed two acres."
The second section made it the dut of the surveyor of the
public lands of the United States, for that district, to cause a
survey to be made of the several lots, and to designate on a
plat thereof the lot confirmed and set apart to each claimant,
and forward the same to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
shall cause patents to be issued in favor of .such claimants, as
in other cases.
In the action of djectment brought by Forsyth, as above
stated, to recover possession of lot No. 7, described, it was
agreed that upon the trial it shall be admitted that the plaintiff has the title of Thomas Forsyth in and to the land sued
for, by descent, and purchase, and conveyance; and also that
the defendants have had the actual possession of the land for
which they are respectively sued, by residence thereon, for ten

840

SUPREME COURT.
Bryan ef al. v. ForytA.

ears next preceding the cpmmencement of the suit; and that
John L. Bogardus, under vhom they claim, had possession of
the southeast fractional quarter of section nine, in tQwnship
eight north, of range eight east, upon which the land sued for
is situated, claiming the same under pre-emption right more
than twenty years before the commencement of these suits,
but he never had the actual possession of that part of said
fractional quarter section sued for; and that said "defendants
respectively had vested in them, before the commencement of
this suit, all the right of Bogardus."
A patent was issued to Bogardus for the southern fractional
quarter of section nine, in township eight north, of range east,
containina twenty-three acres and ninety-three hundredths of
an acre, &c.; "subject, however, t6 all the rights of any and
all persons claiming under the act of Congress of 3d March,
1823, entitled 'An act to confirm certain claims to lots in the
village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois.' "
The defendants rely on the statute of limitations of 1827,
which requires that the possession should be by actual residence
on the land, under a connected title in law or equity, deducible
of irecord from the United States.
The court instructed the jury that the title claimed under
Bogardus did not protect them under the statute.
This is held by this court to be an error, for which the
judgment is reversed.
The error of the court consists in giving a construction not
only to a written instrument, but to a patent. That it is the
province of the court to construe such a paper, will not be
controverted. The patent conveyed to Bogardus the land
described, "subject, however, to all the rights of any and all
persons claiming underthe act of Congress of the 3d March,
1823, entitled IAn act to confirm certain claims to lots in the
village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois.' "
The lot in controversy was claimed under the act of 1823,
which declared, "that there is hereby granted to each of the
French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers, in the
village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois, whose claims are
contained in a report made by the register of the land office
at Edwardsville, in pursuance of the act of Congress approved
May 15th, 1820, and who had settled a lot in the village aforesaid prior to the 1st of January, 1813, and who have not heretofore received a confirmation of claims or donation of any
tract of land or village lot of the United States, the lot so
settled upon and improved, where the same shall not exceed
two acres," &c.
The right made subject to the patent was a legal right; it

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Bryan e at. v. Forsyta.

was a grant' by Congress, which this court has recognised as
the highest rade of title. A patent is issued by a ministerial
officer, who is subject to error, but the legislative action is not
to be doubted.
The survey of the lot was not made until 1st September,
1840, and the patent was issued to Forsyth, December 16, 1845.
In the case of Ballance v. Forsyth, (13 Howard, 24,) this
court say: "If the patent to Bogardus be of prior date, the
reservation in the patent, and also in his entry, was sufficient
notice that the title to those lots did not pass; and this exception is sufficiently shown by- the acts of the Government."
And again: "The statute did not protect the possession of the
defendant below. His patent excepted those lots; of course,
he had no title under it for the lots excepted."
Until the case before us was reversed for error by the
district judges who conformed to the above decision, I did not
suppose that any oie could doubt the correctness of the
decision. Bogardus, in 1888) took a grant from the United
States, subject to Forsyth's right, thereby relignising it, and
consequently from that time he held it in subordination to
Forsyth's title. If it be admitted that the fee- did not pass
to Forsyth until the patent issued in 1845, the patent had
relation back to the act of 1823, aind operated from that time.
The report of the register defined the boundaries of the lot as
specifically as the survey, by reason of which, the lot was as
well known, it is presumed, to the public, before the survey as
afterwards. This may not have been the case with all the lots.
Let any one read the patent to Bogardus, and ask himself
the question, whether the United States intended to convey
the lots to which the patent was made subject, and the answer
must be, that they did not. By the act of 1823, they granted
those lots to the French settlers, who, by the report of the
register, were entitled to them under the act of 1820. It
would have been an act of bad faith in the Government, after
the act of 1823, to convey any one of those lots; and, on reading the patent, it is clear they did not intend to convey any
one of them. It is said, suppose the French settlers had not
claimed the lots, would not Bogardus have had a.right to
them? Such a supposition cannot be raised against the facts
proved. The title of Forsyth was of prior date, and of a higher
nature, than that of Bogardus. His title was subordinate, as
expressed upon its face.
n the case of Hawkins v. Barney's Lessee, (9 Curtis, 428,)
the same question was before this court. Barney conveyed
fifty thousand acres of land, in Kentucky, to Oliver; sometime
afterwards, Oliver reconveyed the same tract to Barney, in

842

SUPREME COURT.
Balance v. Papin e at.

which deed were recited several conveyances of parcels of the
tract to several individuals, and particularly one of 11,000
acres, to one Berriman. Barney brought an ejeetment against
Hawkins, and proved that he had entered on the fifty thousand
acre tract. This court held his action could not be sustained,
unless he proved the defendant was not only in possession of
the large tract, but he must show that the possession was not
upon any one of the tracts sold and conveyed.
To apply the principle to the case before us. Had Bogardus
brought an action of ejectment to sustain it, he must have
proved the trespasser was within his patent, and outside of
Any one of the reserved lots. The words, 'subject to all the
rights of any persons under the act of 1823," showed that those
rights were not granted by the patent; and if-Bogardus himself could not have recovered, it is strange how the defendants
could recover, who claim to be in possession under his patent.
The agreed case admits that the "defendants respectively
had vested in them, before the commencement of this suit, all
the right of Bogardus." But whether this possession under
the right of Bogurdus was for a day or a year, is nowhere
shown by the evidence; and unless I am mistaken, the statute
requires a seven years' possession under title to protect the
trespasser, and in effect give him the land.
Bogardus was. in possession, claiming a pre-emption, but 1
do not understand, from the opinion of the court, that such
a possession will run, even against the French claimants.
Bogardus himself was a trespasser on the lands of the United
States, and uitil he received his patent in 1838, I suppose he
could
not and
set up a claim to the land under title.
. I hold,
can maintain, that the instruction of the district
judge was right, in saying that the patent of Bogardus did not
grant or convey the ground in controversy. And if it did,
there was no such possession under it, which, by the statute
of limitations, protected the right of the defendants.

CHARLES BALLANCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v. ADOLPH

PAPIN,

HENRY PAPIN, AND MARY ATCHISON.
Under the circumstances described in the preceding case, if there was no sufficient
evidence of a survey under the act of 1823, the title claimed under that act
could not be held superior to that claimed uder a patent issued in the interval
between, the act of 1823 and the alleged survey.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.

