SUPREME COURT.
Long et al. v. O'.FaZlon.

REUBEN L. LONG, JOaN S. PENRISE, AND AMELIA PENRISE, HIS
WIFE, AND ALICE PENRISE, BY HFR GUARDIAN, JOHN S. PEN-,
RISE, COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. JOHN O'FALLON.
Where an administrator sells property which had been conveyed to him for the purpose of securing a debt due to his intestate's estate, his failure to account for the
proceeds amounts to a devastavit, and renders himself and his sureties upon his
administration bond liable; but it does not entitle the heirs to claim the property from a purchaser in good faith for a valuable consideration.
Nor can the heirs, in such a case, claim land which has been taken up by the administrator as vacant land, and for which he obtained a patent from the United
States, although such land was included in the conveyance to him.
Moreover, the facts necessary to sustain the plea of the statute of limitations are
proved on the part of the defendant in this case, and no charge in the bill discloses a case of exception from its operation.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Missouri, sitting as a court'of equity.

It was a bill filed by a part of the heirs of Gabriel Long,
(Clara V. Long, one of the heirs, having been left out as a complainant, on account of her residence in Missouri, but made a
defendant to an amended bill, after a derurrer had been sustained upon this ground,) under the following circumstances:

In 1799, the Spanish Government surveyed for Antoine
Morin a tract of land, fronting on the Mississippi ,river, supposed to be sixteen arpens in front, having a depth of forty
arpens, which, in February, 1809, was confirned to his widow
and heirs; he being then dead. The survey showing, however,
that the tract contained more than 640 arpens, that quantity
only was confirmed; and the commissioners directed another

.survey to be made, so as to throw off the surplus on the westof the tract.
ern
"Inside
October,
1809, the Morins conveyed the property to
Elijah Smith, who, in September, 1812, conveyed it to Alexander McNair.
In 1817, the survey ordered-by the board was made, but the
surplus quantity was thrown off from the south side of the
tract instead of the west, by which means fractional sections

26, 27, 33, 34, and 35, of townships 46, range 7 east, were reunited to the body of public lands.
In 1820, McNair, being indebted to Gabriel Long,.mortgaged
to him a tract of one hundred and twenty arpens of land, situ ted on the river Gingrass, and fronting on the river Mississippi,.

dnd bounded southwardly by land formerly owned by Clement
B. Penrose, northwardly by the land of Joseph Morin, and
west*ardly by the .land now or formerly owned by Jbseph'
Brazeau, being the same land which- he had purchased from

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

117

Log at al. v.. O'FaUon.

Elijah Smith. The land Was three arpens in front, by forty
in depth; and was nearly or quite identical with the land thrown
out, as above mentioned.
In October, 1822, Gabriel Long died.
In December, 1822, Alexander McAllister took out letters
of administration upon the estate- of Long, and on the 19th of
February, 1823, cbminenced suit to foreclose the mortgage
against McNitir, and obtained.a decree of foreclosure in October, 1823, and an order to sell the mortgaged premises.
. Although somewhat in advance of the chronological order
of events, it is proper here to introduce the following admission of counsel, which was filed in the cause:
"It is admitted in this case that Catharine Dodge was the
aunt of Mrs. McIair, wife of Alexander McIair. It is admitfiled bycour
him
ted that in the inventory of Alexander McAllister,
as administrator 6f Gabriel Long, deceased, in th county
of St. Louis county, iaid McAllister charged himself with the
following debts, as due to said Long's estate from Alexander
MclTair, viz: ote on Mclair, $1,889, drawing 10 per cent.;
note on MciNair, $100; debt on Mcfair, $340; in all, $2,829.
That in the settlement of said McAllister, as such administrator, in said court, at the February term, 1828, he was credited
by the same amounts charged against him in inventory, the
same being desperate as he stated in said settlement."
It is admitted that Mrs. Long, wife of Gabriel Long, after
his death, married Alexander McAllister; and after his death,
she married Abel Rathbone Corbin, and she is still living.
To fesum the thread of.the narrative.
In March, 1824,, Catharine Dodge took "out a patent from
the'United States for fractional sections 84 and 26, making together. a little upwards of 128 acres; and being a part of the
land thrown out, as above.mentioned, and included -inthe
mortgage from Mclair to Long.
In August, 1824, the sale of-the mortgaged premises took
place inder a decree of the bourt,.as above mentioned, when
McAllister became the purchaser for tfhf sum of one hundred
and twenty. dollars..
In September, 1824, Catharine Dodge united with McNair
in execuiting a deed, by way of mortgage "to MclAIister, in order to secure the payment of two thousand six hundred and
fifty dollars, admitted to be"due from McSair to McAllister,
as the administrator of Long. ,This deed gave to McAllis
ter the powerto sell the -premises, viz:. frac1tonal sections 34
,an&26,

.

In'January, 1828, McAllister entered in his own right fia4
tional sections 27, 83, and 85, containing'in the whole about

118

SUPREME COURT.
Long et at. v. O'Fallon.

nine acres, and being the residue of the lands thrown out
by the survey.
On the 10th of August,1828, Mrs. Dodge, in consideration of
the debt due by Mclair to McAllister, secured by the mortgage, above referred to, released to McAllister all her right,
title, and interest, in the above premises.
In February, 1833, McAllister and wife conveyed to John
O'Fallon, for the consideration of twelve hundred dollars, all
that tiact of land lying on or near the river Gingrass, in the
county of St. Louis, being three arpens in front, by forty
arpens, more or less, in depth, forming a superficies of one
hundred and forty arpens, without recourse, however, to the
grantors for any defect of title.
This was the same land which had been mortgaged by McI~air, purchased by McAllister at public sale, an[ conveyed to
him (in part) by Mrs. Dodge. O'Fallon had previously gone
into possession of the premises, about the year 1830, under an
agreement with McAllister.
In December, 1852, the heirs of Gabriel Long, residing in
California and Mississippi, filed their bill against O'Fallon, on
the equity side of the Circuit Court of the United States for
-Missouri. The bill alleged that McAllister, being administrator of Gabriel Long, and purchasing the mortgaged property,
had thereby become a trustee for the use of the heirs; that the
deed of conveyance, executed by Catharine Dodge, to secure
debts due to McAllister and the estate of Long, enured to the
benefit of the heirs of Long, as did also the patent for the three
fractional sections taken out in his own name by McAllister;
that he had never accounted with the heirs for the $120, which
was the purchase- money of the mortgaged property; 'that
O'Fallon was a purchaser with notice, in fact and in law, and
that the sale made to him by McAllister and wife was fraudulent in fact and in law; and that thereby O'Fallon became a
trustee for the heirs of Long to the same extent that McAllister
was bound to them.
The defendant, O'Fallon, filed his answer, in which, amongst
other matters, he denied that he was a purchaser with notice,
asserting, on the contrary, that when he purchased said real
estate described in the two deeds made by said McAllister to
this defendant--one in August, 1828, and -the other in February, 1833-and paid the consideration expressed in said two
deeds'to said McAllister, this defendant had never heard the.
title of said McAllister, or his right to sell said real estate, questioned;-said McAllister'always claimed and treated it as his
own, and in his own right. If this defendant has had any.
notice or intimation from any one that said McAllister's title

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Long et al. v. O'Yailo

or right to sell said real estate was questioned or questionable,
or that he held or claimed it only in trust for other parties, and
not in his own individual right, tlis defendant would not have
purchased gaid real estate, or had anything to do with it, and
certainly this defendant would not have paid the consideration
for said real estate that lie did, if the title thereto, or right to
.sell, had been questioned or questionable; for the said price or
consideration paid for said real estate to said McAllister, by this
defendant, was equal to the'cash value thereof at that time.
The defendant further alleged that he had been in continuous
possession, in .good faithg, under his claim of title, for twenty
years and upwards, next before the bill was filed, and set-that
up as a bar to -the claim of the complainants.
After various proceedings in-the case, it came up for argument in April, 1855, when the court. dismissed the bill with
costs,
The complainants appealed to bis court.

-

It was argued by Mr. Glover for the appellants, and Mr.
Gijyer for the appellee.
The following notice of the points, on behalf of the appellants is taken from the brief of Mr. Gloer:
1. The case of the appellants rests upon the doctrine of resulting trusts, aided by that of fiduciary relation. An administrator who purchases land under a judgment in favor of the
*intestate, holds- it as a trustee. It must be intended that an
administrator so purchasing, does so at the request and for the
benefit of the heirs. He is a trustee for the heirs, and cannot
divest himself of the trust.
•
A id the cestui pe trust may take the land at his election.
Fellows v.-Fellows, 4 Cowen, 698, 704, 706.
-One Hedden -urchased at an execut6r's sale part-of the
property sold, for the separate use of the executor's wife. The
-

-

purchase- was at public auction, and for a fair price. .

Held that no' fraud- or -unf irness .need be shown, but that
the sale was void at the pleasuro, of the persons interested, and
if they said so the sale must be set aside. Davon v. Fanning, 2
J. Ch R., 252.
We have been unable to lnd any one well-considered case
to dustain the right of an executor to become the purchaser of
roperty which he represtnts, or any portion of it, even at a
air .price at public sale, without fraud. Michond v. Girod, 4
Howard, -557. This case states all the reasons of the rule.
..Where lands in the hands of a -party stand affected with a
trust, and the person In whosekhands they so stood has sold
-

120

SUPREME COURT.
0mg e al. v. O'Palon.-

themto a.third person, the cestui que trust has the right to follow the lands into the hands of any one but an innocent purchaser. And the trustee. cannot deprive him of this right.
Oliver v. Piatt, 3 Howard, 401.
Meyer conveyed his property in trust to pay debts. Part of
it was sold under an execution in the control of the trustee,
and bought by him..
. Held, the purchaser took in trust for the beneficiary. Harrison, administrator, et:al., v. Mock et al., 10 Ala. R., 185.
If an aaent discovers a defect in the title to the land of his
principal, le cannot misuse it to acquire a title to it himself.
Ringo v. Btirnes, 10 Peters, 281. •
Where the trustee aliens the land pendente .le, the eestu
e
trust may elect to take the land, or the money it sold for; Murray v, Lylburn, 2 J. Ch. R., 422.
The ce-stui que trust may affirm the sale, and take the proper-.
ty, or have a resale. Thorp et al. v. McCullum et al., 1 Gilman Ill. R., 614.
I It seems .the beneficiary has three courses he may pursue in
his election. 1. He may.set aside the purchase, and have a
resale. 2. He may affirm it, and take the property as his own.
S. He may take the money.
That the'cestui que trust has this election only shows that he
owns
2. the
Thatprory.
0'a on ew how McAllister came by the prop-:
ty, and that he held it in trust for the persons interested m
th estate of Gabriel Long; they having paid the purchasemoney is manifest from the title-papers themselves.
S8. The article of agreement between O'Fallon and McAllister, dated August 12, 1828, recites that on the 9th August,
1828, MeAflister relinquished to'. O'Fallon the title procured
from Mrs. Dodge in August, 1828. This date of the "9th" is
a, manifest mistake, because the deed of Mrs.: Dodge, in August, 1828,'was made 10th of August, and could not therefore
been recited by a conveyance on the 9th. Besides, this
r of the instrument wbs no evidence against the plaintiffs.
he agreement was valid to shoW a sale to O'Fallon on the
12th, but not evidence of the recited matter against the appellants.
. 4. On 1 3 sale to McAllister; in 1824, the property -in dispute was held by him in trust., On the 10th August, 1828,
after the release of Mrs. Dodge, the property in dispute was
held.by him in trust. And if he did, as recited in the instrument of August-12, 1828, sell the interest gottenof Mrs. Dodge,
on the 10th, to O'Fallon, he had no power to divest the'title of
L ng's heirs thereby.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

121

Long d al. V. O'Fallon.

5. The entries by McAllister, in January, 1828, were in
fraud
of the rights of the heirs of Long, and enured to their
benefit.
. It is impossible to conceive the ground on which the Circuit
Court dismissed'the bill, as to these entries. McAllister, who
held the property as administrator, and who in this way learned of th9 defects in-the title, weilt into the market and purchased u on Is own mere gnotion, an outstanding title to the
trust estate. See Hoffiman's Ch. R., 195; De Bevoix v. Sandford, 5 Vesey, 678; 3 Mer., 200; 13 Vesey, 601. "
*: 6. The property when vested iii McAllister being in equity,
*the property of Long's heirs could only be sold by proceedings
in the Pr6bat6- Court, in conformity with the statute law. See
Reiised Code of Missouri, 1825, vol. 1, pp. 106, 40, 41.
. 7. The statute of limitatione is not applicable to the case, or

if it is, it did not ben to run till the deed to O'Fallon in
1833,-which was the first repudiation'of the trust by McAllister.

M. G-yer, for the defendant in error, made the following
M
points:

-

L- The sale in August, 1824, under the decree of the St.
Louis Circuit Court, was not a sale of any property belonging
to the estate of Gabriel Long, nor was it a sale made by the
administrator, -nor under his direction or control; and therefore the purchase by the administrator was not a breach of any
trust, nor did he become, in fact or law, a trustee for the heirs
of Gabriel Long.
According to the laws . of Missouri, Gabriel Long had no
estate in the land embraced by the mortgage deed. The land
was held as asecurity for the debt, and could be subject to sale
on as theproperty of the mortgagor, and in the mode adoptedby the administrator-by decree of a court-the sale tobd
made by the she'iff.
I
A:n administrator may buy goods of his intestate at sheriff's
sale, (Haddix.. Haddix, 5 Lett., 204;) and so at an open and.
public sale, without fraud, an execut6r may purchase the property of his testator. Drayton v..Drayton, 1 Dessess., 567; An.
derson-v. Fox, 2 Hen. and M., 245; McKey v. Young, 4 Hen.
a)d M., 430; Hudson v. Hudson, 5 Hen. and M., 180.
A person who had.mariied a widow and administratrix, and
was acting guardian of' the minor heirs, was held to have a
right to purchase the estate at full pricd at public sale directed
by the court for the purpose of partition. McGuire v. Mc-.
Gowen, 4 Desaces, 486.
The case of Fillows v. Fillows (4 Cowen, 698, 704, 706) has
-

122

SUPREME COURT.
Long d al. v. O'Pallmo

been cited as authority to sustain the position of the appellant,
that an administrator,- who purthases land under a judgment
in favor of the intestate, holds it as a trustee for the heirs, and
cannot divest himself of the trust; and there -is a marginal note
to that effect, but itis not warranted by the opinion. In that
aqe, the complainailts sued as administrators, and set up the
interest in the property as such, against persons not heirs, who
demurred to the bill on the ground that the complaihants came
in two capacities, a part of the-property having been purcliased
by them at sheriff's sale; under a judgment in favor of their
intestate. The .court -regarded the complainants as having
averred substantially that they purchased as administrators,
and it.
was not for the defendants to question their authority;
and Judge Southerland said, "It is to be presumed, at this stage
of the cause, that they purchased at the request and for the
benefit of the heirs, and a court of equity would compel them
to account'to the estate."
The right of an executor or administrator to purchase on
his own account the property of his testator or intestate, at a
judicial sale under the order or process of a court, has been
questioned; but there is no adjudged case, it is believed, in
which it has been held that an executor or administrator may
not purchase property of others at a public judicial salp, under
a decree,_ judgment, or process, in favor of the testator or intestate, or of hi personal representatives.
I. No.estate or interest in the land in controversy was
vested in the heirs of Gabriel Long by virtue, of the tripartite
deed of the 1st September, 1824, nor by the deed-of Catherine
Dodge to Alexander McAllister, of 10th of August, 1828.
The first of these deeds is a mortgage in trust for sale; under it. McAllister, as mortgagee held the land- to secure the
debts due to the estate of Long, with power, in case of default
in the payments stipulated for, to make sale absolutely, at
public or private sale, of the land embraced; the proceeds to
be applied first to the payment of the principal and interest
of the debt, and the residue, if any, to be paid over to Mrs.
Dodge-McAllister held the estate as tr~ustee for Mrs. Dodge,
subject to the debt due from McNair to Long's, estate. The
personal representatives of Long, not his heirs, held the secu-.
rity for the debt, and were entitled to enforce it.
Before the execution of thd second deed, McAllister made a
settlement of his accounts, as administrator of Gabriel Long's
estate, and was credited with the amount of McNair's debts, as
hsperate, so that he was no longer charged therewith -as administrator; but undoubtedly, if he afterwards received anything on account of that debt, by the sale of mortgaged prop-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

123

Lony-et al. v. O'Fallon.

erty or otherwise, he was bound to acc6unt for it as administrator, if received while he continued to act as such, or with
'his succssor, if he had ceased to be administrator.
The land continued to be held as a security for the debt of
McNair, when Mrs..Dodge conveyed to McAllister her right to
redeem the land which she had purchased from the United
States, and mortgaged by'the deed of 1st of September, 1824.
McIair's right to releem, however, still remained until the
sale made to O'Fallon.
There is no -allegation or evidence that McAllister applied
any of the assets 6f the-estate of his intestate to the purchase
'of any part of the land in question, either at the sheriff's sale
in 1824, or in consideration of the deeds of Mrs. Dodge in
1824 and 1828; the accounts of the administrator, McAl ister,
exhibit no charge against the estate for anything paid on account of the lanit.
At the time O'Fallon became the purchaser, McAllister held
in his own right all the estate and interest of McIair and Mrs.
Dodge in the land, subject only to the encumbrance created by
the tripartite deed of 1st September, 1824, under which he
had a complete power of disposition, but was bound to apply
'so much of the proceeds of any sale as was necessary to -the
paiment of the debt of Mc~air to Long's estate. That is,
at most, the land was subject to a mortgage to secure the debt
to Long, which enured to the personal representative of Long,
and not an estate held by McAllister in trust for tlie heirs.
If, therefore, 'the defendant, O'Fallon, could be regarded as
holding the land precisbly as 'it was' held by McAllister, he
could be required -only to satisfy the debt due from MeNair to
Long's estate; or siell the land and apply the proceeds to the
,payment; but he does not hold the estate in the land in trust
for the heirs of Long; the cause of action, if any, against him,
is in the personal representative of Gabriel Long. And, even
if the heirs might prosecute dn action in a court of equity for
a money demand, the interest of Alton Long.was not assigned
by is deed to Penrise; and the bill was properly dismissed,
because the heirs are not the proper parties complainant, and
because a part of them-only are made parties.
The sale to O'Fallon having been fairly made, and a full
consideration paid, the title vested in him discharged of the
encumbrance in favor of the personal representative of Gabriel
Long created by the aieed of 1st September, 1824.
The.sale was made after the last settlement by McAllister
of his accounts as administrator with the County Court of St.
Louis, and it does not appear whether he afterwards accounted
for the proceeds of the sale or not. The bill contains no alle-

124

SUPREME COURT.
Long et al. v. O'Fallon.

otion that he failed to account, and it was not put in issue in
t e cause. But it is clear that McAllister was authorized to
make the sale to secure the money and make the conveyance,
and there was no obligation on the part of.the purchaser to see
that he accounted for the proceeds as administrator of the estate of Long." Grant v. Hooke, 18 Sergt. and Rawle, 262; 2
Des., 318; Field v. Sheiffelin, 7 John. h. , 160.
..

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants, a pArt of the heirs of Gabriel Long, deceased,
instituted this suit in the Circuit Court against the defendant,
to obtain a decree for a title tb, and for an account for the
rents and profits of, a parcel of land in St. Louis, Missouri.
Tue case made in the record is, that in 1820, Alexander
McNair and wife executed a mortgage deed for the land in
controversy to Gabriel Long, to secure a debt not then due.
Before its payment, Long died, and Alexander McAllister was
appointed to administer his estate. In 1828, this administrator
obtained a decree in the Circuit Court of St. Louis county, for
a foreclosure of the mortgage, and an order of sale, to be executed after a'limited period. This order was executed in August, 1824, by a public sale of the property to McAllister, for
a small portion of the debt.
I The title of McNair before thisF sale had entirely failed.
The Spanish concession and survey, under which he claimed
the land, had been surveyed and located by the officers of the
land office so as to exclude this patcel, and, in consequence, it
was subdivided into five fractional sections, and was subject to
sale ad public' land. At the date of the sale by the sheriff two
of these fractions, embracing the whole tract'except nine acres,
were claimed by Catherine Dodge, under a patent from the
United States, and the remaining sections were patented to
McAllister, as a purchaser, by entry at the lan4 office in 1828.
In September, 1822, Catherine Dodge and McIair agreed
to secure the debt due to the estate of Long, by a mortgage
in fav:or of McAllister.

The debt was divided into three unequal instalments, which
were to be paid within'three years by McNair; and Mrs. Dodge
conveyed her two fractional-sections, in mortgage, with a power
of sale in the event of a default, to secure-the performance of
the obligation.
McNair failed to make the payments, and in 1828 Mrs.
Dodge released to .McAllister her equity of redemption and
her claim upon him for any surplus from the mortgage, for
the- consideration of one dollar.
In 1828, the defendant purchased the five fractional sections

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Lon a LV.Ol2a .

125

from McAllister, for a fair price, and has been in the undispu*ted possession.of the land. since 1830; The defendant pleads
the statute of limitations in bar of the recovery.
The opinion of the court is, that the conveyances of Mrs.
Dodge to McAllister did not-invest the heirs of Gabriel Long
with an equitable estate, or a particular lien on the property
described in them. Their primary object was to create a security, or a fund, for the payment of the debt of Mcl~air, and to
enable McAllister to dispose of the land in case of its non*payment, at his discretion, for its discharge. - The release executed in 1828 was not made to extinguish any :portion 6f the
deb nor. did it remove the obligation of McAllister to con-vert the security into pecuniary assets. His sale of the land
was a legitimate -exercise of the powers of an administrator
and trustee, and his vendee was not obliged to look to the application
purchase-money.' (Tyrrell v. Morris, Dev. and
Batt. Oh. of the
.,559.)His
to account
Sfailure
was a devastavit,
for which lie and bis sureties are liable on their official bond
at law; and'probably, if the-land had been retained by him, or
any person claiming as a volunteer 'under him, a court of
equity might have permitted the heirs to accept the property,
insead of.the. debt due to the estate.

But, 'in the present in-

"stance,the defendant is a 'purchaser in good .faith, and is eiati-

1ed to hold'the prop erty, e x~empt fro2A te claims of the plain-

tifs.

(Tayner v. Pears.all,

John. O h. T., 578.)

lor can the title of the defendant td the three.small fractional sections -entered by McAllister at the land office, and
.which were purchased from him by the defendant after his
patent from'the United States had been issued, be successfully
questioned by ther plaintiffs. The estate conveyed to Long by
Mcelfair, inmortgage, was known to be without value in i824.
*McAllister did not-acquire bythe sheriff's deed any interest in
.the land, or'profit from his purchase. The land was then a
pgrt of the public domain, and subject to entry at the land
..office, undr.the laws ofthe United States. Without considering whether there was any relation between this administrator
and these heirs, which precludea the former to purchase the
A1nd for his own account, under the-principles of equity, we
,are: satisfied that the .heirs .are not entitled to pursue their
'claim against a purchaser for value, who has not been guilty
"of-fraud or collusionThe"facts necessari to sustain the plea of the statute of limitations are proved on the pait of the defendant, and no charge
in the bill- discloses a case of exception- from its operation.
(Piat v. Vattier'and others, 9 Pet., 405.)
Decree of the Cicuit Court affirmed.

