DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

79

Willot a al. v. ,Sandford.

dence, where the rule of law requiring the best evidence does
not prevent.
It follows from these premises, that when the commission of
a postmaster has been signed and sealed, and placed in the
]lands of the Postmaster General to be transmitted to the officer, so far as the execution is concerned, it is a completed act.
The officer has then been commissioned by the President pursuant to the .Constitution; and the subsequent' death of the
President, by whom nothing remained to- be done; can have
no effect ou that completed act. It is of no importance that
the person commissioned must give a bond and take an oath,
before he possesses the office under the commission; nor that
it is the -duty of the Postmaster, General to transmit the commission to the officer when he shall have done so, These are
acts of third persons. The President has-previously acted to
the full extent which he is required or enabled by the Constitution and laws to act in appointing and commissioning the
officer; and to the benefit of that complete action the officer is
entitled, vhen he fulfils the conditions on his part, imposed
by law.
We are of opinion, therefore, that Beers was-duly commssioned-uhdir his second appointment.
For these reasons, we hold the judgment of the Circuit Court
'to ave been erroneous, and it must be reversed, and the-cause
remanded with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.
Tz UNITED. STATE& PLATrS 1ROiN
En
I T UtITfed
StT
"

GsoRao N. STEWART.

In error to the Circui" 6You of -te lnifLr the
o edfe rn drit
of

J

Alabama.

Mr. Justice CURTIS.
The opinion of the court, in' the preceding case, deter'mines
ibis, and the judgment -of the Circuit Court must be reversed,
'I conformit with hat opinion.
SEBASTIAN WILLOT,

Jom McDoiTAL,. AND JosEpa HUNN,
PLAINT]biS IN ERIOR, v. JoN F. A. SA1DFORD.

Where thei are two confirmations by CQngress of the same land'in Missouri, the
elder confirmation gives 'the better title; and the jury are not at liberty, in an
action ot jectment, to- find that the ivey and patent did not correspond with
the confirmation.
Titles to lands thus situated could be confirmed; norrwere the lands affected by
the act of March 3, 1811, providing for the sale of public lands and the final
a4djustnient of land claims.

Tms case was brought uip, y writ of error, from the Circiit'Court of the United States for thedistrict of Missouri.

80

SUPREME COURT.
Willot e al. v.Sandford.

It was an action of ejectment brought by Sandford, a citizen of New York, to recover the following-described premises, viz:
A certain tract of land, containing 750 arpens, more or less,
which was claimed by one Antoine Lamarche, as derived to
him from the Government of Spain, was surveyed for said
Lamarche by John Harvey, a deputy surveyor under the Government of the United States, and the plat of said survey duly
certified by said Harvey, under date of December 20, 1805,
and the same received for record by Antoine Soulard, surveyor
general under the Governmenf of the United States for the
Territory of Louisiana, February 27, 1806; which said tract is
situate, lying, and being on Lamarche's creek, alias Spencer's
run, in St. Charles county, Mis ouri, and the claim thereto
was duly confirmed to the said Antoine Lamarche, or his legalrepresentatives, by an act of Congress entitled "An act confirming claims to lands in the State of Miss6uri, and for other
purposes," approved July 4, 1836.
It is unnecessary to 'recite the evidences of title set forth
upon the trial by the plaintiff and defendants, as they 'are set
forth on both sides in the opinion of the court.
Amongst other rulings of the Circuit Court were the following, viz:
5. That the survey made by the United States surveyor, and
on which issued the patent certificate and patent, is evidence
of a high character that the land included in the survey is the
same as that included in the confirmation to the legal representatives of Dissonet.
6. That said survey is not conclusive evidence that the land
confirmed to the legal representatives of Disso-net was correctly located and surveyed by said survey.
. 7. If the jury, therefore, believe that the land sued for is
not within the confirmation to the legal representatives of
Dissonet, although it may be within the survey and patent,
then such confirmation, survey, and patent, cannot protect said
defendants in this suit.
It is not necessary to mention any of the other instructions
or rulings of the Circuit Court.
The case was argued by Mr.Blair for the plaintiffs in error,
and M71r, :Lawrence for the defendant, upon which side there
was also a brief filed by Mr. Glover.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Peter Chouteau, claiming under one Dissonet, laid before
Recorder Bates a claim for 800 arpens of land, situate in St.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Willot el at. v. &nfo-d

Charles county, Missouri. The evidence presented to the recorder was a certificate of a private survey embracing the claim
as set up, with proof that Dissonet had inhabited and cultivated the land from 1798 to 1805. The recorder pronounced
the claim valid as a settlement right to the extent of 640 acres,
and declared that it ought to'be surveyed as nearly in a square
as might'be, so as to include'Dissonet's improvements; and,
furthermore, that the land should be surveyed at the expense
of the United States.
This report was confirmed by Congress, by the act of April
29, 1816. The land was sur, eyed in. 1817, by authority of the
United States. A patent certificate was forwarded to the
General Land Office by the recorder of land titles at. St.
Louis, in 1823, and a patent issued on it in 1850. Protection
is claimed by the defendants, under-the survey and patent.
.The jury was instructed by the Circuit Court, that the survey and patent were not conclusive evidence that~the 'land
s correctly located and surveyed according
'they. embraced
.to the-confrmation;" and if they believed that the land sued
for was not within the coniflrmation of the legal representatives of Dissonet, although it may be within the survey and
patent, then the su vey and patent would not protect the defendants.'
Exceptions were taken to this ruling. The jury found that
the official survey did'not correspond to the confirmation, but
that it was illegaly extended so as to interfere with the claim
on which the plaintiff relies. His claim is this: In 1805, Antoine Lamarche caused a private survey to be made by Harvey
for,750 arpens of land, which he claimed by right of settlement. Lamarche laid his. claim before the board of commissioners, but produced no evidence of inhabitation ana cultivation; indeed, no evidence at all, except the surveyor's certificate. On coming before the board, in 1811, the-claim was of
coursexrejected; and thus it lay until 1833, when the board of
commissioners organized -under the act of July 9, 1832, took
evidence which established the fact to their satisfaction, that
Lamarche had inhabited and cultivated the land, and was entitled to a confirmation; and in 1835 thby recommended to
:Congress-that the claim ought to be' confirmed according to
Harvey's survey Pf 1805; 'and it was thus confirmed by the
"
-actof Jily 4, 1886.
Harvey's survey covers -the'land in dispute, -which is overlapped oh its eastern boundary by the survey and calls of the
patent to Dissonet; -and within' this interference the defendants
.
'
old p ssession.
Up-to the date. 6f .the confirmation:of Lamarche's claim, in
VOL. XIX.

6

SUPREME COURT.
Vandewater v.

ills, Claimant Steamship Yankee Blade.

1886, it had no standing in a court of justice. So this court
has uniformly held. Les Bois v. Brommell, 4 Howard.
In the next place, the United States reserved the power to
survey and grant claims to lands in the situation that these
contending claims 'Were when confirmed; nor have the courts
of justice any authority to disregard surveys and patents, when
dealing with them in actions of ejectment. This court so held
in the case of West v. Cochran, and will not repeat here what
is there said.
When the survey of 1817 for Dissonet's land was recognised
at the surveyor general's office as properly executed, which
Was certainly as -early as 1823, then Dissonet had a title that
he could enforce by the laws of Missouri, and which' was the
elder and better; it being settled that where there are two
confirmations for the same land, the elder must hold it. A
more prominent instance to this effect could hardly occur,
than that of rejecting the younger confirmation in the case of
Les Bois v. BrommeI1, above cited.
The act of. 1811; reserving lands from sale which had been
claimed before a board of commissioners, has no application
to -such a case as this one. It was so declared in the case of
Menard v. Massey, 8 Howard, 309, 310.
It is ordered, that the judgment .of the Circuit Court be re.
versed, and a venire de novo awarded.

ROBERT J. VANDEWATER, APPELLANT, V. EDWARD ARLLS,
ANT OF THE STEAMSHIP YANKEE BLADE, .HER TACKLE,

CLAm&C.

Maritime liens are ,trictijuris, and will not be extended by construction.
Contracts for the future employment of a vessel do not, by the maritime law,
hypothecate the vessel.
The obligation between ship and cargo is mutual and reciprocal, and does not tdke
place till the cargo is on board.
An agreement between owners of vessels to form a line for carrying passengers and
freight between New York and San Francisco, is but a contract for a limited
partnership, and the remedy for a breach of it is in the common-law courts.

THIS Was an appeal from -the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of California.
It was a libel, filed-originally in the District Court, by Vandewater, against the steamer Yankee Blade, for a violation of.
the following agreement:
"This agreement, made -this twenty-fourth day of September, 1853, at the city of New York, between Edward Mills, as
agent for owners of steamship Uncle Sam, and William H.

