SUPREME COURT.
Irsegan Central Railroad Co. v. Mchi'gan Southern lairoad Co. et at.

manner in which the property was held and managed, are
causes of very grave suspicion. The bill charges, that if this
property was conveyed to her, "it was. so conveyed with intent
and for the purpose of hindering, delaying, and defrauding the
creditors of the said John D. Bracy." The answer of Mrs.
McRae does not deny this allegation.
In the course of responding to the claim of the bill founded
on the trust-deed, her answer says: "She therefore charges,
that there was no encumbrance whatever on the said slaves, or
any of them, at the time she purchased them; and avers that
she purchased them in good faith, and without any notice or
knowledge whatever of a subsisting, lien upon them by virtue
of said deed-of trust."" We understand this averment of good
faith on her part to relate simply to her ignorance of a lien by
the trust-deed, and that it does not meet the explicit allegation
in the bill, that the purpose of the sale was to conceal the property from creditors;. and though the failure of the answer to
meet this charge in the bill does not operate as a technical
confession of its truth, it does lay a foundation for the belief
that if the defendant could have truly denied it, she would not
have foregone the decided advantage of such a denial in an
answer which puts the complainant on proof of the contested
fict by more than one witness.
The answer alleges, that the agreed price of the sale was
$3,500, payable. in iustalments of 8875 each, in five, six, seven,
and eight years; and that four promissory notes were executed
accordingly. It does not say what was done with the notes,
after they were executed. 1o such notes'were found among
the effects of Bracy, to be inventoried. Neither of these notes,
if in existence, had become payable when this bill was filed,
and we think the attempt to show that something had been
paid on account of them by the delivery qf some cotton is not
successful.
In our opinion, the charge in the bill, that the sale was fraudulent as to creditors, is made out inproof, and this is sufficient
to sustain the decree of the Circuit Court.
Tten decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.

THE

MICHIGAN- CENTRAL RAILROxD 'CoMPANY, PLAINTIFFS n?

ERROR, V. -THE MICHIGAN SOUTHE .N

RAILROAD

COMANY

ET AML.
Where a case is brought up to this court by a writ of'error Issued to the Supreme

Court of a State, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, if it appears

DECEMB3E
ehiigan Centrai R

TIMM, 1856.

oad co. v. IBfk

3"8T9

an southern Ralroad Co. d a?.

that the judgment of the State court only involved the construction of State statutes which both parties in the cause admitted to be valid, the writ of error will
be dismissed on motion.

Tms case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

State of Michigan, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act.
The case is fully stated-in the opinion of the court.

.M . Walker moved to dismiss the writ of error for want of
jurisdiction, which motion was sustained by himself in argu
oy on behalf of the plaintiffs in
ment, and opposed by-r.
error.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us on a motion to dismiss for want ofjurisdiction.
It is a bill in chancery originating in the Circuit Court of
Wayne county, in the State of Michigan, and afterwards taken
by appeal to the Supreme Court of the State.
In order to give this court jurisdiction under the 25th section of the judiciary act, the record of the cage must show, by
direct averment or necessary intendment, that one, of the questions enumerated in that section did arise, and was decidedby
the State court, as required.
If the subject of complidnt be, that a State statute is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and therefore.
void, and that the State court has declared it to be -valid this
fact should appear by some direct averment, either on the bill
or answer, or in the decree of the court.
After scrutinizing with great care the rather prolix pleadings of this case, we are unable to find any complaint, by the
bill or answer, that the Legislature of Michigan have passed
any act affecting the rights of either party which "impairs the
obligation of a contract;" nor is there an intimation in the
decree that any such question arose in the case; nor is there
any necessary intendment that such a question did arise, and
was necessarily decided, from anything that does appear in the
pleadings, evidence, or decree; on the contrary, it shows affirmatively that no such question did or could arise.
This will clearly appear from an examination of the bill and
answer.
The bill alleges, that the complainants were incorporated by
an act entitled "An act to authorize the sale of the Central
railroad and to incorporate the Michigan Central Railroad
Company," approved March 28, 1846; that theypurchased the
Central railroad, according to the terms of their charter, and

880

SUPREME CO"RT.
.Mtchigan Central Railroad Co. v. Michigan Soutiem Railroad Co. et aZ.

have since that time completed and run said railroad; that, at
the time of the act, the State of Michigan owned both the Central and Softhern railroads; that the management of the Cenfral road was found onerous and unprofitable; that it was an
object to sell the same; that the road was not worth, to exceed
$800,000; and that the franchises and exclusive rights secured
by the charter alone made it worth the sum they paid, viz:
$92,00,000; and that it was for the interest of the State to
grant such franchises and exclusive rights, and that the exclusive privileges secured to them by the following provision in
section five of their charter were especially valuable to them,
and without which they would not have purchased said road:
"And no- railroad or railroads from the eastern or southern
boundary of the State shall be built or constructed or maintained, or shall be auth6rizad to be built, constructed, or maintained, by or under any law of this State, any portion of which
shall approach, westwardy of Wayne county, within five miles
of the line of said railroad, as designated
in this act, without

theThe
consent
of this company."
bill further
alleges, that the State at the same time resolved, to sell the Southern railroad, but that said sale was only
to take effect on the completion of the sale of the said Central
railroad; that it was welt understood by the complainants, the

State, and the defendants, .(the Southern Railroad Company,)

that the sale of. said Southern railroad was subordinate to the
sale of the Central railroad,.and that the act incorporating the

said Michigan Southern Railroad Company, approved May 9,
1846 was subject to the complainants' charter; and that, by
the sixth section of that act of incorporation, it is provided as
follows:
s"And the said Southern Railroad Company shall also,

within

three years after the passage of this act, eitend, construct, and
complete the Tecumseh branch from the village of Tecumseh,

by way of Clinton, to the village of Jackson, by way of Manchester, and along the line of railroads formerly authorized to

be constructed by the Jacksonburgh and Palmyra Railroad
Company, or so far along the same as may not .confict with the
tnro
s of anect
aeffentet
to authorize the sale of the
Central railroad, and to incorporate the Michigan Central
Railroad Company,' approved arch 28, 1846, and put the
same in operation, with sufficient motive power to do the business of the country depending on said branch."
The bill further alleges, that the defendants are threatening
to construct, an are.taking the preliminary steps for constucting, said Tecumseh branch to the village of Jackson, and that
ten miles of said branch railroad, if constructed, will be within

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

381

fich an Central Railroad Co. v. Aflc.an Southern Rairoad Co. et al.

five miles of the complainants' railroad; and that said branch,
together with the Erie and Kalamazoo railroad from Toledo to
A ian, and the Mchigan Southern railroad to Monroe, will,
in fact and effect, constitute one railroad, both to the eastern
and southern boundary of the State, and therefore will be an
invasion of the rights and privileges guarantied to the combefore
and
by thatgranted
provision
of Sfouthern
their charter
plainants
andcited,
therefore
company/;
to said
beyond the poowers
an injunction isprayed for.
The answer of the defendants denies that the provision of
the complainants' charter above citedl applies to such a road as

grantorpowers
could not
that the
those
so; it avers
only to parallel
roads,
branch,
butLegislature
the Tecumseh
nearly
those set up by the complainants;
so large and exclusive as
and that the Teumseh branch, if built, wold not, in fact or

effect, together with the other railroads named, constitute one

or southern boundair of
line of railroads, either to the eastern
the State, and the construction of the same would be no iola-

tion of the rights and privileges gtiarantied to the complainants
by their charter, and that by their own charter they are not
only authorize, but required, to construct said braich to
Jfackson.
The gravamen of the bill is that the defendants are acting

without legslative authority, and are usurping rights not grantd

they are
asserts
It nowhere
charter.
by their
to themunder
act
legislative
by a that
on them
confered
authority

acting
which infringes-the rights previously granted in the complainants' charter, or impairs the obligation of their contract. The
answer puts in issue nothing but the construction of certain
statutes which both parties admit to be valid. It is therefore

this court has. no jurisdiction to
abundantly apparent 'that
review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan in
this case.
manuscript opinion of one of the judges of the Supreme

Courtof Michigan has been eferred to by the counselin their
arument in support of our jurisdiction But even if this

opinion had intrdduced some speculations on points not involved in the pleadings of the case, this court cannot resort to
contained in order to support their jurisdicanything therein
won. In the case of the Ocean Insurance Company v. Polleys,

we have decided, "that. it is to the record, and to the record
alone, that theis ourt an resort to ascertain its appelate jurisdactin under the twenty-ffth section of the judiciary act."
sThe writ of error must therefore be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

