818

SUPREME COURT.
Commercial .Mutuo. Marine In3urance Co. v. Union Mutual 1urance Co.

venience and vexation have been prevented. Without further
inquiry, we think a sufficient ground for a resort to equity is
disclosed.
Decree affirmed.

THE COMMERCIAL MUTUAL MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY, APPELLANTS, v. THE UNION MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK.
Where application for reinsurance, was made on Saturday, upon certain terms,
which were declined, and other terms demanded, and on Monday these last-mentioned tefms were accepted by the applicant, and assented to by the president,
but the policy not made out, because Monday was a holyday, the agreement to
issue the policy must be considered as legally binding. '
The law of Massachusetts is, that although insurance companies can make valid
policies only when attested by the signatures of the president and secretary, yet
they can make agreements to issue policies in a less formal mode.
By the commoh law, a promise for a valuable consideration to make a policy is not
required to be in writing, and there is no statute in Massachusetts which is inconsistent with this doctrine.
Where the power of .the president to make contracts for insurance is not denied in
the answer, or made a point in issue in the court below, it is sufficient to bind
the company if the other party shows that such had been the practice, and theteby an-idea held out to the public that the president had such power.
It is not essential to the existence of a binding contract to make insurance, that a
premium note should have been actually signed and delivered.

THIs was an appeal .from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts, sitting in equity.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by 3fr. Gurtds for the appellants, and
Mr. Goodrich for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Massachusetts, in a suit in
equity, to compel the specific performance of a contract to
make reinsurance on the ship Great Republic. The Circuit
Court made a decree in favor of the complainants, and the respondents appealed.
It appears that the complainants, a corporation established
in New York, having made insurance of the ship Great Republic to a large amount, authorized Charles W. Storey, at
Boston, to apply for. and obtain from either of the insurance
companies there reinsurance to the extent of ten thousand dollars. Pursuant to this' authority, on the 24th December, 1853,
Mr. Storey made application to the president of the defendant

319

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Commercial Mutual Marine In-surance Co. v. Union Mutual Insurance Co.

corporation for reinsurance, at the same time presenting a
paper, partly written and partly printed, as embodying the
terms of the application. The paper was as follows:
"Reinsurance is wanted by the Union Mutual Insurance
Company, New York, for $10,000, on the ship Great Republic, from December 24, 1853, at noon, for six months ensuing.
"This policy is to be subject to such risks, valuations, and
condition, including risk of premium note, as are or may be
taken by the said Union Mutual InsurAnce Compdny, and
pajment of loss to be made at the same time. 8 per cent.
"Binding,

, -President.

"New York, -December24, 1853."
The president, after consultation with one of the directors of
the company, declined to take the risk for a premium of three
per cent., but offered to take it for three and a half per cent.
Mr. Storey replied, that was more than he was authorized to
give, and left the office. He immediately apprised his principals, by a telegraphic despatch, that the risk could be taken
for three and a half per cent. for six months, or six per cent.
a year. The reply, on the same day, was, "Do it for six
months, privilege of cancelling if sold." This reply did not
come to the hands of Mr. Storey until Monday, the 26th day
of December, when he went to the office of the respondents,
and found there the president of the company, but not any
other person, as the day was generally observed, by merchants,
bankers, and insurers, as a holyday, Christmas having fallen
on Sunday.
Mr. Storey informed the president he was willing to pay
three and a half per cent. for the reinsurance described in the
proposal, took a pen and altered the three per cent. to three
and a half per cent., by adding to 3 on the paper, and it is
admitted by the answer that the president thereupon assented
to .the terms contained in the paper, but informed Mr. Storey
that no business was done at the office on that day, and that
the next day he would attend to it. The president then took
the paper and retained it.
To a special interrogatory contained in the bill, the defendants answer:
"That its president did assent to the terms and provisions
in said paper, as the terms and provisions of a reinsurance to
be completed and executed by this defendant, by the making
and execution of a policy in due form, according to the requisitions of the laws of Massachusetts, and the by-laws of this
defendant, but they were not assented to as a present insurance.1'

820

SUPREME COURT.
Commercial Hutual Marine I urance Co. v. Union MutuaZ Insurance Co.

Upon these facts, we are of opinion there was an agreement
to reinsure according to the terms contained in the proposal,
concluded by and between Mr. Storey and the president at
this interview on Monday the 26th of December. The paper
c~ntained every particular essential to a contract to make reinsurance. It ascertained the subject of insurance, the commencement and duration of the risk, the parties, the interest
of the assured, and the premium; and for the speeial risks, the
valuations, and conditions, it referred to the original contract
of insurance made by the complainants, by reason of which
they were seeking reinsurance.
On Saturday, tle president had offered to contract in accordance with the paper, saving a difference of one-half per cent.
on the premium.
It was argued that it could not be considered an acceptance,
on Monday, of a continuing offer made on Saturday, because,
when the compjainants authorized Mr. Storey to give three and
a half per cent., they at the same time imposed anew condition by the words, "privilege of cancelling if sold.. But Mr.
Storey testifies, and this is not denied by the answer, or by
any witness, that when he made the application on Saturday,
and before the president had named the premium which he
was willing to take, the president said he supposed that th'ey
would have to cancel the policy, if the vessel should be sold
within the 'time; and that he (Storey) assented thereto; and
that at the interview on Monday, when this point was referred
to, the president said the usage in Boston would settle it, and
he would not put anything concerning it into the policy; and
after some conversation concerning the usage, Mr. Storey
agreed to take the policy without any mention of the privilege
of cancellation. Under these circumstances, We do not perceive that the requirement of this privilege can be considered
as at all varying, in the apprehension and meaning of the .parties, the terms of the acceptance on Monday, from the terms
of the proposal on Saturday. But whether, under all the circumstances, this should be deemed to have been a continuing
offer, we do not think it necessary to determine; because, on
Monday, ,either the president's offer of Saturday was accepted
by Mr. Storey, and its acceptance made known to the president, or the proposal was renewed-by Mr. Storey, and accepted by the president. The fact that others chose to abstain
from business .on that day did not prevent these parties fiom
contracting, if they saw fit to do so; and when one, of them
either accepted a continuing offer, br renewed a proposal which
was accepted by the other, they made a binding contract. Nor
do we think the allegation of the answer, that the president in-

DECEM3ER TERM, 1856.

821

Commercial Huiual Marine Insurance Co. v. Union Mutual Inurance Co.

formed Mr. Storey that no business was done in the-office that
day, but the next day he would attend to it, can reasonably be
interpreted to mean that he had not made, or intended to
make, a contract for a policy. Their fair meaning is, that
though he had agreed to make the insurance, as the secretary
and clerks were not .there, and the books not accessible, any
action on the agreement must be deferred to the next day.
The words cannot be understood to mean, that he would on
the next day attend to what he had already done; and he had
already made a contract for reinsurance, to be executed on the
next day, by issuing a pblicy in due form to carry that agreement into effect.
On leaving the office of the defendants, Mr. Storey immediately informed the plaintiffs that he had effected this contract,
and on the night of the same day the ship Great Repu~lic was
destroyed by fire, while lying at a wharf in the city of !Tew
York. On the twenty-seventh of December, the complainants
tendered their note for the agreed premium, and demanded
the policy of reinsurance. The defendants declined to make
the policy. Several grounds have been insisted on in support
of this refusal:
The first is, that by force of a statute of the State of Massachusetts, (Rev. Stats., ch. 37, secs. 12, 13,) insurance corporations can make valid policies of insurance only by having them
signed by the president and countersigned by the secretary.
But we are of opinion that this statute only directs the formal
mode of signing policies, and has no application to agreements
to make insurance.
Such we understand to be the view taken of this statute by
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts. (INew Eugland Ins. Co.
v. De Wolf, 8 Pick., 63; [Stat. 1817, ch. 120, see. 1;] McCullock v. The Eagle Ins. Co., 1 Pick.,. 278; Thayer v. The Med.
MVL. Ins. Co., 10 Pick., 826. See also Trustees v. Brooklyn
Fire Ins. Co., 18 Barbour, 69; and Carpenter v. The Mu. Safety
Ins. Co., 4 Sand. Ch. R., 408.)
It is further insisted, that by the law merchant insurance
can be effected only by a contract in writing. We d6 not
doubt that the commercial law of all countries has treated of
insurance as made in writing by an instrument, denominated
by us a policy; and there may be provisions of positive law, in
some countries, requiring an agreement to make a policy to be
in writing. But there is no such statute of frauds in the State
of Massachusetts.
The common law must therefore determine the question;
and under that law, a promise for a valuable consideration to
make a policy of insurance is no more required to be in writing
VOL. XIX.

. 21

322

SUPREME

COURT.

Commerciat Mutual Marine Insurance Co. v.' Union Mutual Insurance Co.

than a promise to eecute and deliver a bond, or a bill of exchange, or a negotiable note. So it has been held by other
courts, and, we think, on sound principles. (18 Barbour, 69;
Hamilton v. The Lycoming Company, 5 Barr., 339. See also
Sanford v.. The Trust Fire Ins. Co., 11 Paige, 547.)
The respondents' counsel has argued that their president
had not auithority to enter into an oral contract binding the
bompany to make insurance. They admit it has been usual for
the president to make such contracts; but they say that when
he has done so, th4 policy was not issued until the next day,
and no risk is understood to have commenced under such an
undertaking until the policy issues. Whether a risk be commenced when the contract fi r insurance is made, or only when
the policy issues, must depend on the terms of the contract.
Where, as in the present case, there is an express contract to
take the risk from a past day, there is no room for any understanding that it is not to commence until a future day. Such
an understanding would be directly repugnant to the express
terms u! the contract. And if the defendants have held out
their president as authorized to. make oral contracts for insurance, no secret limitation of this authority would affect third
persons, dealing with him in good faith and without notice of
such limitation. Besides; the supposed limitation would be
inconsistent with the authority itself. It is, in effect, that
though the president is authorized to make oral promises to
effect insurance, the company are at liberty to execute those
promises, or to refuse to do so, at their option.
The power of the president to enter into this contract to
make insurance is nowhere denied in the answer. All that
can bear on this 'subject occurs in certain statements concerning the usual course of business of the company. It seems to
have been assumed by both parties, that whatever the president
actually did in this transaction, he did for the company, and so
as to render them responsible for his acts. And no question
was raised on this point in the court, below. Still it is incumbent on the complainants to offer competent and sufficient evidence of the authority of the president to bind the company,
though less evidence may be reasonably sufficient when no
issue c6ncerning it is made on the record.
We think such evidence is in the case. Mr. Storey deposes,
that during the three years next preceding this transaction, he
had effected upwards of three hundred contracts for reinsurance, with the presidents of ten different insurance companies
of Boston; and that one, or possibly two, of these presidents
usually signed an accepted application-the others all contracted orally. Considering that all the incorporated insurance

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

28

RzU v. Reabury et al.

companies in Boston have similar charters, and the same kind
of officers to conduct their business, we think this is competent
evidence, that presidents of such insurance companies in that
city are generally held out to the public as having the authorityto
act in this manner. And Upoh a point not put in issue in the
record, and on which no more than. formal proof ought to be
demanded, we hold this evidence sufficient. (Fleckner v. The
Bank of the United States, 3. Whea., 860; Minor v. The Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria, 1 Peters, 46.)
The fair inference is, that if the general authority of the
president to contract for the corporation had been put in issue,
it could have been shown, by the most plenary proof, that the
presidents of insurance companies in the city of Boston are
generally held out to the public by those companies as their
agents, empowered. to receive and assent, either orally or in
writing, to proposals for insurance, and to bind their principals
by such assent.
Nor do we deem it essential to the existence of a binding
contract to make insurance, that a premium note should havd
been actually signed and delivered. The promise of the plaintiffs to give a note for the premium was a sufficient consideration for the promise to make a policy. It is admitted, that the
usage is to deliver the note when the policy is halided to the
assured. If the defendants had tendered the policy, we have
no doubt an action for not delivering the premium note would
have at once lain against the plaintiffs; and we think there
was a mutual right on their part, after a tender of the note, to
maintain an action for non-delivery of the policy. In Tayloe
v. The Mutual Fire Ins. Co., (9 How., 390,) it was held that a
bill in equity for the specific performance of a contract for a
policy could be maintained. And it being admitted that in
this case the defendants would be liable as for a total loss on
the policy, if issued in conformity with the contract, no further
question remained to be tried, and it was proper to decree the
payment of the money, which would have been payable on the
policy, if it had been issued.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

EDWARD FIELD, P

INTIFF IN ERROR, V. PARDO

G. SEA-

BURY ET AL.
When a grant or patent for land, or legislative confirmation of titles to land, has
been given by the sovereignty or legislative authority only having the right to
make it, without any provision having been made, in the patent or by the law,

