OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

MOSES v. LAWRENCE COUNTY BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 166. Submitted March 23, 1893.-Decided May 10,1893.

Under a statute of frauds which requires the consideration of a promise to
answer for the debt of another to be expressed in writing, a guaranty by
a third person of the payment of a negotiable promissory note need not
itself express any consideration, if written upon the note before it is
delivered and first takes effect as a contract; but must, if written afterwards.
A negotiable promissory note, even if not purporting to be "for value
received," imports a consideration, and the endorsement of such a note
is itself primafacze evidence of having been made for value.
A promissory note payable to the maker's own order first takes effect as a
contract upon endorsement and delivery by him.
The statute of frauds of a State, even as applied to commercial instruments,
is a rule of decision in the courts of the United States.

THIS was an action, brought April 16, 1888, by a national
bank, organized under the acts of Congress, and doing business
in and a citizen of Pennsylvania, against six persons, citizens
of Alabama and residing in the Middle District of Alabama,
to recover the amount due on a guaranty of a promissory
note.
The complaint alleged that, on August 15, 1887, the Sheffield Furnace Company, an Alabama corporation, made a
promissory note for $12,111.51, payable to its own order four
months after date at the banking house of Moses Brothers, in
Montgomery, that contemporaneously with the making of
the note, and before its delivery or negotiation, and in order
to give it credit and currency, its payment at maturity was
guaranteed by the defendants, for a valuable consideration,
by an endorsement in writing on the note in these words,
"We hereby guarantee the payment of the note at maturity,"
signed by the defendants, and which was intended by them to
induce, and which in fact induced, James P Witherow and

MOSES v. LAWRENCE COUNTY BANK.
Statement of the Case.

all others to whom the note and guaranty were offered for
negotiation and sale, to take the note and guaranty and to
give value therefor, that the note, with the guaranty thereon,
was before its maturity duly endorsed for value by the Sheffield Furnace Company to the order of Witherow, that afterwards, and before the maturity of the note and guaranty,
Witherow endorsed the note, guaranteed as aforesaid, to the
plaintiff for value, that afterwards, and before the maturity
of the note and guaranty, the defendants endorsed in writing
on the note their waiver of protest and notice, that the note
was not paid at maturity, and that the note and guaranty
remained unpaid and the property of the plaintiff.
The defendant pleaded twelve pleas, of which the only ones
material to be stated were as follows:
Fourth. That the guaranty sued on was a special promise
to answer for the debt of another, and did not express any
consideration for the promise.
Fifth. That the note was given by the Sheffield Furnace
Company for a debt owing to Witherow before it was made,
and was not founded upon a consideration paid or liability
accrued at the time of the making thereof, and the guaranty
was without any consideration.
Eighth. That the Sheffield Furnace Company paid the debt
sued on to Witherow before this action was commenced.
Twelfth. That the guaranty sued on was a special promise
to answer for the debt of another, and did not express any
consideration therefor, and was not executed contemporaneously with, nor before the negotiation of, the note of which it
guaranteed the payment.
The plaintiff demurred to the fourth and fifth pleas, because
they did not deny that the defendants endorsed the guaranty
upon the note contemporaneously with its execution and before any negotiation thereof, and also demurred to these
pleas, as well as to the twelfth, because they did not deny
that the defendants endorsed the guaranty upon the note before
its negotiation to the plaintiff and in order to give it credit
and currency, nor allege that the plaintiff had notice of any
want of consideration for the guaranty

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

To the eighth plea, a replication was filed, alleging that the
plaintiff became the owner of the note for a valuable consideration before maturity, and that no part thereof had ever
been paid to the plaintiff, or to any one authorized by the
plaintiff to receive it. To this replication the defendant
demurred.
The court sustained the demurrers to the pleas, and overruled the demurrer to the replication.
Issue was then joined on the eighth plea and the replication thereto, and a trial by jury was had upon that issue, at
which the plaintiff gave in evidence the note, purporting to
be "for value received," and the following endorsements
thereon, in the order in which they appeared upon the note.
1st. "Pay to the order of J P Witherow," signed by the
Sheffield Furnace Company 2d. An endorsement in blank
by Witherow 3d. "We hereby guarantee the payment of
this note at maturity," signed by the defendants. 4th. Another
blank endorsement by Witherow under the guaranty iNo
other evidence was introduced. Thereupon the court instructed
the jury to render a verdict for the plaintiff for the amount
sued for, with interest, a verdict was returned accordingly,
and the defendant, having duly excepted to the evidence and
to the instruction, tendered a bill of exceptions and sued out
this writ of error.
_Yr John D ]?oquemore and Mr J N Arrrngton, for
plaintiffs in error, submitted on their brief.
_Yr J Xl. W-hie and hXr TF E. Gunter filed a supplemental brief for plaintiffs in error.
J1r Henry B. Tomrpk n , for defendant in error, submitted
on his brief and supplemental brief, in which it was contended
This suit is governed by the general commercial law, irrespective of what may be the statute law or the decisions of
the courts in Alabama. Swft v Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, Oates
v Natzonal Bank, 100 U S. 239, Railroad Co. v Natonal
Bank, 102 U S. 14, Panav Bowler, 107 U S. 529, 541.

MOSES v. LAWRENCE COUNTY BANK.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

In the case of Davw v Tells, 104 U. S. 159, 169, the court
say "It has always been held in this court that, notwithstanding the contract of guaranty is the obligation of a surety, it
is to be construed as a mercantile instrument in furtherance
of its spirit and liberally to promote the use and convenience
of commercial intercourse."
There is doubtless a conflict of authority as to whether or
not a guaranty endorsed upon a promissory note in the form of
the one now under consideration passes by assignment of the
original obligation, and is negotiable under commercial law
The weight as well as the importance of the authorities is in
favor of the negotiability of such guaranty .7fcLaren v
Watson, 26 Wend. 425, White v Howland, 9 Mass. 314, S. 0.
6 Am. Dec. 71, Coleman v Fuller, 105 N. 0. 328, .Partrndge
v Damis, 20 Vermont, 499, Zilliari v Ashley, 24 Arkansas,
511, S. 0.91 Am. Dec. 519, Studabaker v Cody, 54 Indiana,
586, Jfetchell v Burns, 24 Wend. 456, Jones v Berryhill, 25
Iowa, 289, ANewus v Bank of Lanmgburg,10 Michigan, 547,
Everson v Gere, 40 Hun, 248, Top.pan v Cleveland &o. Railroad, 1 Flip. '14, Hall v Smith, 21 How 283.
Independently of all this, it is contended by counsel for
defendant in error that the action of the court in sustaining
the demurrers to the pleas was right for another and independent reason.
The plea of the general issue, as shown in the original brief,
was, under the laws of Alabama, filed in this cause, and by
the law of Alabama, as well as by the common law, all the
defences set up by the plaintiffs in error in their special pleas
they could have availed themselves of under plea of the general
issue, except possibly the plea of payment set forth in the
eighth plea, which was not demurred to.
In Alabama the plea of general issue is a mere general
denial of the allegations of the complaint, without offering any
special matter of defence. It casts on the plaintiff the onus
of proving every material allegation of the complaint, and
limits the defence to evidence in disproof of such material
allegations. Petty v Dill, 53 Alabama, 641, 645.
The whole question before the court was whether or no the

OCTOBER TERTIf, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

instrument sued upon, taken altogether, constituted a good
and binding guaranty in favor of the assignee of Witherow
against those signing the guaranty
That these guarantors
were bound to pay the money at maturity, see the following
authorities: Richter v Frank, 41 Fed. Rep. 859, Davis v
vells, 104 U S. 159, 166, 169, Dams Sew2ng -3JachneCo. v
Rwhards, 115 U S. 524, 527; Loutsville .Manufacturqng Co.
v Welch, 10 How 461, 475, Wiles v Savage, 1 Story, 22,
Lawrence v AloCalrnont, 2 How 426, 452, Hall v Feaver,
34 Fed. Rep. 104, 108.
MR. JuSTIOE

GrAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the statute of frauds of Alabama, a special promise to
answer for the debt, default or miscarriage of another is void,
"unless such agreement, or some note or memorandum thereof,
expressing the consideration," is in writing, and subscribed by
or in behalf of the party to be charged. Alabama Code of
1887, ยง 1732. The words "value received," or acknowledging
the receipt of one dollar, sufficiently express a consideration.
.72eal v Smzth, 5 Alabama, 568, Bolling v 71unchus, 65 Alabama, 558.
Every negotiable promissory note, even if not purporting to
be "for value received," imports a consideration. Xtandeville
v Welch, 5 Wheat. 277, Page v Bank of Alexandrza, 7
Wheat. 35, Townsend v -Derby, 3 Met. 363. And the endorsement of such a note is itself prima face evidence of
having been made for value. Riddle v _Lfandeville, 5 Cranch,
322, 332.
The promissory note, in the case at bar, having been made
payable to the maker's own order, first took effect as a contract upon its endorsement and delivery by the maker, the
Sheffield Furnace Company, to Witherow, the first taker.
Lea v Branch Bank, 8 Porter, 119, Little v Rogers, 1 Met.
108, Hooper v Villsams, 2 Exch. 13, Brown v De Winton,
6 C. B. 336.
A guaranty of the payment of a negotiable promissory

MOSES v. LAWRENCE COUNTY BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

note, written by a third person upon the note before its delivery, requires no other consideration to support it, and need
express none other, (even where the law requires the consideration of the guaranty to be expressed in writing,) than the consideration which the note upon its face implies to have passed
between the original parties. Leonard v Tr'edenburg, 8
Johns. 29, .D'Tfro - v. 1?abaud, 1 Pet. 46, 501, 502, lrelson,
v. Boynton, 3 Met. 396, 400, 401, Biokf.ord v Gibbs, 8 Cush.
154, .Yabb v. Koontz, 17 Maryland, 283, Parkhurstv 'Fail,
73 Illinois, 343.

The demurrers to the fourth and fifth pleas, therefore, were
rightly sustained.
But a guaranty written upon a promissory note, after the
note has been delivered and taken effect as a contract, requires
a distinct consideration to support it, and if such a guaranty
does not express any consideration, it is void, where the statute of frauds, as in Alabama, requires the consideration to be
expresse- in writing. leonard v Fredenburgh, and other
cases, above cited, Rgby v .Norwood, 34 Alabama, 129.
The demurrer to the twelfth plea, therefore, should have
been overruled, and judgment rendered thereon for the defendant, unless the court saw fit to permit the plaintiff to file
a replication to that plea.
It was argued on behalf of the original plaintiff that the
validity and effect of the guaranty must be governed by the
general commercial law, without regard to any statute of
Alabama. But there can be no doubt that the statute of
frauds, even as applied to commercial instruments, is such a
law of the State as has been declared by Congress to be a rule
of decision in the courts of the United States. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, ยง 34, 1 Stat. 92, Rev Stat. ยง 721,
.fXandeville v. Rqddle, 1 Cranch, 290, and 5 Cranch, 322, D'/oyf
v Rabaud, 1 Pet. 416, Hirkman, v H7amilto, 6 Pet. 20,
Brashear v lWest, 7 Pet. 608, Pame v Central V-ermont
Railroad, 118 U S. 152, 161.
It was also contended that the order sustaining the demurrers, if erroneous, did not prejudice the defendant, because he
might have availed himself of the defence of the statute of

