McCOMB v. FRINK.
Statement of the Case.
P

McOOMB v. FRINK.
FRINK v. MeCOMB.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.
Nos. 215, 216. Argued April 25, 26, 1893.-

Decided May 15, 1893.

M. subscribed to the capital stock of a company about to be formed a large
sum on his own account, and $60,000 as trustee. B., who was the cestum
que trust, subsequently asked him to acknowledge that he held it in trust
for S. who had purchased it of B. M. thereupon wrote under date of
November 22, 1869, "To whom it may concern. I hereby acknowledge
to hold in the Southern Railroad Association as trustee for S. under an
arrangement with B. an original subscription of 60,000, on which 70 per
cent has been paid. This motion is in conformity with an arrangement
made some two months ago between B., S. and myself. (Signed) M."
In 1875 S. commenced an action at law against M. in a state court of
Massachusetts to recover on an alleged contract by Al. to invest for S.
the sum of $45,000 then in 'A.'s hands, in the stock of that association,
and such proceedings were had that it was finally determined there that
no such contract as charged existed, or if it existed, was broken. Subsequently facts were disclosed which showed a breach of trust by M., his
administrator and administratrix filed this bill. Held,
(1) That the paper given by M. to S. in 1869 was an absolute and unqualified declaration of trust, for the amount of the subscription so far as it
had been paid,
(2) That one essential to an estoppel by judgment is identity of cause of
action, and that an examination of the pleadings and proceedings in the
case in Massachusetts showed that the cause of action there was not
identical with the cause of action here;
(3) That in view of the fact that Al. when called as a witness in the action
at law testified that the stock stood as it always had stood, and of the
further fact that no breach of trust was discovered until just before the
commencement of this suit, the plaintiffs had not been guilty of laches;
(4) That in view of the circumstances detailed in the opinion of the court
the decree of the court below awarding a return of the amount for which
M. acknowledged himself as trustee with interest reached, as nearly as
possible, what justice demanded.

Ox J-une 30, 1868, the Southern Railroad Association, an
unincorporated association, was organized by certain parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

for the purpose of leasing and operating the Mississippi Central Railroad, of which Henry S. McComb had previously
obtained a lease for himself and his associates. The capital
of this association was $1,500,000, of which Henry S. McComb
subscribed $15,000 personally, and also $60,000 as trustee,
Josiah Bardwell, $100,000, the balance being taken by ten
associates. On January 14, 1869, this association became
incorporated, under a special act of the legislature of Tennessee,
and to this corporation the voluntary association, on January
22, 1869, transferred its property
On January 21, 1869, such
action was taken by this incorporated company that the capital
stock named in its charter, to wit, $2,000,000, was issued to
the subscribers of the original unincorporated association in
proportion to the amounts of their subscriptions. In this way
the subscription in the name of Henry S. McComb, trustee,
was enlarged from $60,000 to $80,000, and represented 800
shares of stock, for which eight certificates of one hundred
shares each, and numbered from 157 to 164, inclusive, were
formally issued by the incorporated company on October 6,
1870, to Henry S. McComb, trustee, and so remained on the
books of the company at the time of his death, December 30,
1881. It is undisputed that the subscription was taken originally by McComb as trustee for Josiah Bardwell. In the fall
of 1869 this correspondence took place between Bardwell and
McComb
"My DEAR McComi3 Will you please acknowledge that
you hold in 'the Southern Ass'n,' as trustee for (the benefit)
or rather for C. B. Snyder, that ain't of stock wh. you held
as for me, Mr. Snyder having two months since pd. me its
costs and interest.
"Yours, truly,
J BARDWELL.
"Boston, Nov 12, 1869."
"OFFICE
"WILMINGTON,

S. McCoims,
DEL., Nov. 22, 1869.

oF H.

"Josiah Bardwell, Esq., care of F Skinner & Co., Boston.
"DEAR Sm I send this (acknowledgment as trustee) the
first leisure moment after the receipt of your letter, and if it

McCOMB v. FRINK.
Argument for ArcComb.

is not in conformity with your wishes in any manner please
return it to me, with such instructions to be carried out as
you shall be disposed to make.
H. S. McCoAM,
"Yours truly,
Al."
The following is a copy of the paper enclosed in McComb's
letter
"To whom it may concern
"I hereby acknowledge to hold in the Southern Railroad
Association, as trustee for 0. B. Snyder, under an arrangement
with Josiah Bardwell, an original subscription of sixty thousand dollars, on which seventy per cent has been paid. This
notice is in conformity with an arrangement made some two
months ago between Josiah Bardwell, 0. B. Snyder, and
myself.
"E. S. McCo m, Trustee."
On this acknowledgment is a memorandum in Bardwell's
handwriting
"Received Nov. 23, 1869."
At the time of his death, on July 18, 1882, Snyder was still
the beneficiary under this trust, and on January 30, 1883, the
plaintiffs, as administrator and administratrix, commenced
this suit against defendant, as executrix, etc., of Henry S.
ceComb, the purpose of which was to establish the trust, and
The pleadings having been percompel an accounting.
fected, proofs were taken, and the case submitted for final
hearing, which resulted in a decree on July 3, 1889, for the
sum of $42,000 principal, and $49,420 as interest, making in
the aggregate $91,420. 39 Fed. Rep. 292. Both parties appealed to this court.
Wilhiam G Wilson, for Frink and another, adminis.H
trator and administratrix of Snyder, deceased.
Mr Wfayne .MacVeagh and lif George . Bates, (with
whom was Mr Francts S. Bangs on the brief,) for McComb,
executrix.

OCTOBER TERIf, 1892.
Argument for McComb.

I. No such trust was established in McComb in favor of
the complainants' decedent as entitled the complainants to the
relief prayed for in the bill, or to the relief granted in the
decree.
II. The matters in controversy have already been passed
upon by a court of competent jurisdiction in the suit brought by
Bardwell against McComb in the Supreme Judicial Court of
iMassachusetts, which, begun in Boston in 1875, and terminated in 1878 in a verdict and judgment for the defendant,
raised the same questions and was decided upon practically
The case is
the same facts as belong in this controversy
therefore res judicata. Smith v Whitng, 11 ]Mass. 445.
The claim of a trust in McComb for Snyder was raised in
the Boston case and settled there. The discovery of new evidence, even if pertinent, does not affect the former adjudication. Kilheffer v HYess, 17 S. & R. 319, S. C. 17 Am. Dec.
658. And further, this new matter is wholly without value as
strengthening the plaintiffs' equities. L-awrence v Vernon, 3
Sumner, 22, Steam Packet Co. v Bradley, 5 Cranch C. C.
393, Block v Commqsszoners, 99 U S. 686, Packet Co. v
Sickles, 5 Wall. 580, Ballance v Forsyth, 24 How 183, Cot
" Tracy, 8 Connecticut, 268, S. C. 22 Am. Dec. 110, Phillips
v Bertck, 16 Johns. 136, Betts v Starr, 5 Connecticut, 550,
S. C. 13 Am. Dec. 91, Cist v Zeigler, 16 S. & R. 282, S. C.
16 Am. Dec. 573, Canaan v Greenwoods Turnpike Co., 1
Connecticut, 1, Przce v Dewey, 6 Sawyer, 493, S. C. 11 Fed.
Rep. 104.
III. The complainants are chargeable with laches. Wagner
v Bazrd, 7 How 234, Bowman v. Wathen, 1 How 189,
Hayward v NYatzonal Bank, 96 U. S. 711, Jenkvms v Pye,
12 Pet. 240, Brown v Buena V7ista County, 95 U S. 157,
Godden v Kimmell, 99 U S. 201, Rwhards v M'.ackall, 124
U S. 183, Preston v Preston, 95 U. S. 200, Spezdel v
Henrwc, 120 U. S 377, Redjeld v Ystalifera Iron Co., 110
U. S. 174.
IV McComb, even if a trustee for the complainants' decedent, committed no act, and neglected no duty to his cestu?
que t rust in respect to the shares of stock in suit, such as makes

McCOMB v. FRINK.
Opinion of the Court.

his estate liable for their original cost, with interest, or for
any other sum of money The Circuit Court, in holding that
the amount of the recovery is to be governed by the alleged
cost of the stock instead of by what it was worth, violated a
thoroughly well established and reasonable principle. Galigher v Jones, 129 U. S. 193, SrrtA v Bolles. 132 U S. 125.
XP&George Gray closed for Frink and another, adnnistrator and administratrix of Snyder, deceased.
:MR. JUsTICE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
That some kind of a trust was created by this declaration of
McComb appears on the face of the paper itself, and from its
language, taken in connection with the correspondence which
induced and accompanied it, it is also clear that it was an
absolute, unqualified, unconditional trust which was declared
by McComb. Whatever of doubt might from the mere
language of the declaration arise as to whether this trust was
limited or qualified by some arrangement with Josiah Bardwell, and whatever suggestiveness there might be in such
language, of a foundation for the claim now put forward, that
this subscription and stock was by arrangement with Bardwell
held primarily as security for advances made or to be made
by McComb to him, and for the benefit of Snyder, as cestui
que trust only thereafter, and subject to this, primary burden,
is clearly displaced by the two letters which called for and
accompanied the declaration. Bardwell's letter to McComb
is a request that he acknowledge the holding to be in trust for
Snyder, and because Snyder had paid therefor its cost and
interest. That clearly is a request for an absolute and unqualified declaration of trust, and because the property had
been fully paid for by Snyder to the original cestui que trust.
That MN[cComb intended and supposed by this declaration that
he was giving the absolute declaration of trust requested is
evident from the letter which he wrote accompanying it, for
in that he says "if it is not in conformity with your wishes
in any manner, please return it to me with such instructions

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to be carried out as you shall be disposed to make." In other
words, the transaction is this Bardwell writes asking for an
absolute declaration of trust in behalf of Snyder, McComb
sends this declaration, accompanying it with a letter saying
that if this does not comply with your wishes, send it back
with such changes as you desire. Evidently the reference to
an arrangement in the declaration was for the purpose of
identifying the stock and subscription, and that there might
not arise any pretence that any part of the subscription and
stock standing in his own name was held in trust for Snyder.
ie simply meant to identify the trust property as that which
all along had stood in his name as trustee, and to guard
against the assertion of a trust in some other portion of the
stock. If we go outside of the papers themselves, the testimony tends strongly to uphold the claim of plaintiffs that this
was an absolute and unconditional trust. Bardwell did get
from Snyder $45,000, as shown in. this way On April 22,
1869, Bardwell drew three drafts on Strang & Snyder, in
favor of McComb, for $15,000 each. On the same day this
receipt was given by McComb
"Received, Boston, April 22, 1869, of J Bardwell his three
drafts of $15,000 each, 30, 40, and 50 days' date, on Strang
& Snyder, New York, being in payment for one-fourth interest
in 10,000-share transaction in the stock of the Chicago and

Rock Island Railroad Co., to be managed by John F Tracy,
as agreed between myself and said Tracy, through Smith,

Randolph & Co., of New York, as brokers, for the account of
myself and ]Bardwell.

"El. S. M cCo~rn."

This was found among the papers of Mr. Snyder, with the
following minute attached to it, signed by Mr. Snyder
"The three drafts mentioned in the foregoing receipt were
paid by Strang & Snyder, and by them charged to my account
on their books after the transaction in Chicago and Rock
Island Railroad Company's stock was closed. The whole or
no part of the money or interest was returned to me, but

McCOMB v. FRINK.
Opinion of the Court.

$42,000 was applied to the subscription to stock in the Southern Railroad Association, for which amount I hold H. S.
McComb's receipt, as trustee, dated November 23, 1869.
"Boston, January 23, 1870.
C. B. Sxynm.."
McComb received and discounted these drafts, and sent the
proceeds to Smith, Randolph & Co., which, by their letter of
May 6, amounted to $44,709.38. On August 4, 1869, McComb
gave Bardwell a draft on Smith, Randolph & Co. for $44,709,
the exact amount of the deposit on May 6, the cents omitted,
and on August 6 a check on the Bank of North America for
82500, and on the 15th of September wrote to Bardwell,
stating, among other things, as follows
"The net of your account is.
From which deduct payment of
Leaving due you and subject to call.

.$36,719 80
2,500 00
. $34,219 89

"Shall I pay your trustee call S. R. R. A. due the 20th inst. 2
"Ever yours,
H. S. MeCoM1r."
These transactions, including the letters, show that Snyder
(or the firm of Strang & Snyder) advanced to Bardwell
$45,000, and there is no testimony that it was ever repaid to
Snyder, other than in this trust matter. The letter of September 15 also shows that McComb held money to the amount
of $34,000 and over, subject to Bardwell's call. It appears
also that Bardwell was very much embarrassed in October,
and that this embarrassment was known to Mc~omb.
The following is one letter that passed between them
"(Personal.)
BosToN, Oct. 5, 1869.
"My DEAn FRraiD McComm I am in trouble, and first to
you I write. I left here Saturday night for New York, and
returned Sunday, since Sunday I have not closed my eyes.
I have been duped and swindled by that man Barry, and it is
my own fault that makes the matter so much the worse. I
had his honor pledged to me, and was credulous enough to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.

believe.

Since Sept. 23 I have paid $260,000 for him.

From

a sick bed he came to see me in New York Sunday when my
worst fears were realized, and he owned that he had lost
$120,000 in stocks. After talking with him six hours I left,
feeling disgusted and tired. I only fear now that I do not
know the worst, he owes me $700,000 and I fear he has misapplied or used some $150,000 of acceptances, he said he had
them on hand unused, but I have reason to think otherwise,
when he told me that there were no more drafts on us, and
that as it stood Friday, so it was and no more. I came home
to find his drafts for $350,000 drawn on Saturday, these of
mine have gone back. The sufferings of hell cannot compare
but unfavorably with mine, but I won't write more.

"Yours always,

J

BARmvELL.

"Don't say a word about this to any one."
With knowledge of Bardwell's condition, as shown by this
letter, as well as otherwise, McComb gave this declaration of
trust. Can it be believed that it would have been issued in
that form, and sent in a letter accompanied with an implied
promise to put it in any other form that might be desired, if
at the time the stock was held by McComb as security for
advances made, and to be made, to a man so financially
embarrassed 2
Further, so far as appears from the testimony, McOomb
never suggested to Snyder, or, for that matter, to any one else,
that this was other than an absolute and unqualified declaration of trust, until July 21, 1874, and then in this way On
June 3, 1874, Snyder wrote to McComb
"I have unexpectedly been called on to pay $40,000, a debt
of F Skinner & Co. and myself, which I supposed was paid
long since. Not owing anything, my means are all invested
in a way that I cannot reach them at present. I can get
along with $30,000. What I want is for you to let me have
in some way the above amount, ($30,000,) so that I can use it
at once, and then you can reimburse yourself from the sale of
consolidated bonds when they are issued."

McCOMB

v. FRINK.

Opinion of the Court.

To which, on June 15, McComb replied as follows:
"I do not know how I can help you. I will do anything
I can consistently with the obligations that are already on me,
and hope to be able, at the meeting on Monday next, at New
York, to suggest something that will relieve you, and not
hurt me. You can depend upon my doing everything I can
reasonably be expected to do in the matter."
On July 16, Snyder wrote again, and urgently, saying
"I trust you will do me this favor, because I am really in
a tight place and am borrowing the money from day to day,
from my friends. I would not ask you for the favor if I could
possibly get along without it. Will you help me 2 Please let
me know when you will be in N. Y or where I can see you
next week."
In replying to this, on July 21, McComb said
"I can send you the $30,000 Southern R. R. Ass'n paper,
and will do it if you will return me the paper I signed, giving
you so much of the benefits of the stock which was in my
name as trustee for Mr. Bardwell, and which I held, by agreement from him, as collateral for advances made to him and
F Skinner & Co., which advances more than cover all this
stock."
And this is the first intimation that the trust was not wholly
for the benefit of Snyder. In addition, there is the testimony
of Charles Marsh, that in the year 1873 he was in the office
of the Southern Railroad Association, in the city of New
York, at a day on which there was to be a meeting of the
directors, and that while there McComb came in, and after
saying good morning and passing the time of day, said.
"Now, gentlemen, to-day I am prepared to offer you cost and
interest of your stock. I had to guarantee Mr. Snyder that
before he would take his at all, but this isn't anything you
want to sell, this stock." And again, the testimony of
Francis C. Cross that in June, 1874, he was present at a conversation between Snyder and McComb, which was substantially as follows
"M r. Snyder asked Mr. McComb to perform his agreement
in regard to the Southern Railroad Association stock. Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

McComb replied to Mr. Snyder that he had better keep it and
do as the other gentlemen were about to do, put in some more
money, that it was a good thing and was worth two for one.
Mr. Snyder told him that he wished the money, as he desired
to foster other interests that were pressing him. Mr. McComb
said that he had no money, but he would let him have some
notes to the extent of $30,000, and Mr. Snyder replied that he
would. If the notes were good he would use them and would
carry the balance for a time. No time was stated, however.
Mr. McComb told Mr. Snyder to come down to a meeting
that was to be held- as to the time of the meeting I have no
recollection -if he would come there he would fix it up with
him."
Further than that, on October 25, 1873, Edmund F Cutter
wrote to Mcomb
"Are the interests of F S. & C. in the Southern R. R'd
Association, on which you advanced 60 M dollars, still intact,
and are they worth the loan and principal How does the
60 M of Mr. Snyder's stand affected 2"
To which McComb replied as follows.
" WILMINGTON, DEL., October 27, 1873.
cc E. F Cutter, Esq., Boston, Mass.
"DAR SIR The South'n R. R. Association stands all right,
and everybody's interest stands upright and square.
" Yours truly,
H. S. McCom, Pres."

In June, 1875, Snyder began an action against McComb, in
the city of New York. It was an action at law to recover
$75,000 on account of the alleged conversion by McComb of
this trust property to his own use. Mr. McComb's testimony
was taken as follows
"Q. What has become of the original subscription mentioned in this letter 2 A. It is still in my possession or under
my control.
"Q. In what shape is it now 2 A. Stock of the compan y,
as it was then.

McCOMB v. FRINK.
Opinion of the Court.

"Q. In what name does it stand 2

A. H. S. McComb,

trustee.

"Q. Has it stood so ever since this paper was written 2 Q.
Continuously? A. Yes, sir.
" Q. I ask you how that subscription was paid 2 A. I presume it was paid by Mr. Bardwell to the company"
Subsequently the action was voluntarily dismissed by plaintiff.
Putting all these things together, there can be no reasonable
doubt as to the nature of the transaction. There was an absolute and unqualified declaration of trust given by McComb
to Snyder for the amount of this subscription so far as it had
been paid, and the Circuit Court did not err in so finding.
Again, it is insisted that the matters in dispute between the
parties have been once determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction, and the principle of resyudicata is invoked as a
defence to this action. It appears that, after the voluntary
dismissal of the action in the New York court, Snyder, in
October, 1875, commenced a like action at law in the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, which was tried without a
jury, and resulted in a judgment in favor of the defendant, on
December 23, 1878. The original declaration was in five
counts. To this the defendant filed an answer denying "each
and every allegation in each and every count of the plaintiff's
declaration," and specifically denying any indebtedness, and,
for a further defence, he demurred to the first four counts.
Thereafter, by leave of the court, these first four counts
were stricken out, and two substituted in their place. To this
amended declaration the defendant filed an answer denying
the allegations in the first two counts -the
new portions of
the declaration, and also, as a further defence, a demurrer
to the third count -that being the fifth count in the original
declaration. This amended declaration, m substance, alleged
that the defendant, on July 16, 1869, had in his possession
$45,000 belonging to the plaintiff; that in consideration of
plaintiff permitting such sum to remain in his (defendant's)
hand, he would purchase for plaintiff stock in the Southern
Railroad Association, and, further, that he would, if re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

quested, take the said shares of stock from plaintiff and pay
hin $45,000, with interest, that, relying upon such promise
and agreement, the plaintiff left the sum of $45,000 with defendant, but that he failed to purchase stock in the association, and that he, plaintiff, thereupon demanded payment of
the sum of $45,000 and interest, which was refused. The
second count was "for money had and received," the bill of
particulars attached being as follows
"Bill of Parzoulars.
(1) To cash retained by you to be applied to purchase of stock in the Southern Railroad
Association.
$45,000 00
(2) To interest on same, July 15, 1869, to October
29, 1875
16,978 50
$61,978 50"
The third count, being the fifth in the original declaration,
was an allegation of the conversion of six hundred shares of
stock, and in these words
"And the plaintiff further says that the defendant has
converted to his own use six hundred shares of the capital
stock of the Southern Railroad Association, a corporation duly
established by the laws of the States of Mississippi and Tennessee, the property of the plaintiff."
The record of the proceedings in the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts fails to show any ruling of the court on the
demurrer to this third count, and one of the counsel for the
plaintiff in that action testified that by mutual consent this
third count was abandoned, testimony which seems to be
supported by an extract from the brief of the defendant's
counsel, in which it is stated "the count in tort has been
abandoned." On the trial of that case the plaintiff made application to amend his declaration into a bill in equity, a bill
founded upon tiis trust, out such application was denied by
the court, such denial being, within the statutes of Massachusetts as well as the general practice, a matter of discretion.

McCO-B v. FRINK.
Opinion of the Court.

So that the case, as finally determined, was simply one at
law for breach of a contract to invest in the stock of the
Southern :Railroad Association.
This mere recital of the facts concerning that action at law
seems sufficient answer to the plea of res judicata,for among
the essentials of an estoppel by judgment is identity of the
cause of action. Atchson, Topeka &o. Railroad v Je~erson
County, 12 Kansas, 127, 2 Bouv Law Dic. title "Res Tudicata." When an action at law for breach of a contract to
invest in stocks fails because the testimony develops that the
investment was made and a declaration of trust given in respect to the stock so purchased, it would seem strange to hold
that such judgment is a bar to a suit in equity for a breach of
the trust, especially when it appears from the records in the
law case that an application to change the declaration into a
bill in equity in respect to the trust was denied. As was said
in Cromwell v County qf Sao, 9: 1U. S. 351, 353 "In all
cases, therefore, where it is sought to apply the estoppel of a
judgment rendered upon one cause of action to matters arising
in a suit upon a different cause of action, the inquiry must
always be as to the point or question actually litigated and
determined in the original action, not what might have been
litigated and determined. Only upon such matters is the
judgment conclusive in another action." What might have
been determined in the Massachusetts court if the amendment
of the declaration had been permitted can only be conjectured,
what was determined was that no such contract as charged
existed, or, if it existed, was broken. Copious extracts were
in evidence in this case from the brief of the defendant's
counsel m the Massachusetts case, which show that the defence relied upon was that no action at law could be maintained in consequence of the disclosure, of the trust receipt.
It is enough to quote these, which are but samples of others
"It is, of course, unnecessary to give any consideration to
the ' trust receipt,' except as it disproves the agreement alleged,
because "(1.) It is not the c6ntract alleged and declared on and for
breach of which money is sought.
VOL. CXLIX-

41

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"(2.) Because its only scope and effect is to create a trust,
for the enforcement of which no action of law can be brought,
but only a remedy sought in equity"
"It becomes wholly unnecessary, as it is entirely impracticable, to inquire, consider, or determine what anybody's rights
may be under the trust created or declared on in this transaction
"When, if ever, a bill in equity shall be brought, and all
parties in interest brought into court, that may be an interesting as it will be a necessary question. Till then it is enough
that the trust created and acted upon for more than six years
by all parties clearly negatives any other agreement concerning this original subscription, and necessitates a judgment for
the defendant in this suit."
Properly, therefore, the Circuit Court held against this
claim of i'es 2udicata.
It is suggested that the plaintiffs have been guilty of laches;
but in view of the fact that defendant, when called as a witness
in the first law action, testified that the stock stood as it always
had stood, and of the further fact that no breach of the trust
was discovered until just before the commencement of this
suit, this defence is also without merit.
The final question is as to the measure of damages. The
court charged the defendant with the amount invested by
plaintiff, and recognized by the declaration of trust, to wit,
$42,000, and interest. Both parties challenge the question of
correctness of this amount. The plaintiffs insist that McComb
sold his own stock for $125 a share, and that, therefore, in the
accounting he should be charged for the 800 shares held by
him in trust for Snyder at that price per share, for which sum,
together with interest to date, a decree should be passed. The
defendant claims thae McComb never did anything with this
trust stock, other than in the fair discharge of his duties as
trustee, that, owing to causes over which he had no control,
and for which he was not responsible, the stock finally ceased
to be of any value, and, therefore, that his estate should not
be called upon to account for anything. It becomes necessary

McCOMB v. FRINK.
Opinion of the Court.

to see exactly what McComb did with this stock. The Southern Railroad Association was the lessee of the Mississippi Central Railroad Company, and was incorporated for the purpose
of taking a lease of and operating said road. This road extended from Jackson, Tennessee, to Canton, Mississippi, there
it connected with the New Orleans, Jackson and Great Northern railroad, running from that place to New Orleans, Louisiana. McComb was a large holder of stock in that company
On November 8, 1871, he made an arrangement by which he
sold to the Pennsylvania Company 14,000 shares in the New
Orleans, Jackson and Great Northern Railroad Company, at
$50 per share, and 5000 shares in the Southern Railroad Association at $125 a share. At the same time he transferred to
the Pennsylvania Company an additional 14 ,000 shares in the
New Orleans, Jackson and Great Northern railroad, and 5000
shares in the Southern Railroad Association. Included in this
last 5000 shares was the 800 shares standing in the name of
McComb as trustee, which were transferred by an endorsement on the certificates, vesting apparently an absolute title in
the Pennsylvania Company
The stock which he sold was his own, and the whole cash
payment, $1,325,000, passed to him, and, so far as appears,
was appropriated to his own uses. By means of this transfer
the Pennsylvania Company obtained control of the Southern
Railroad Association, as well as of the New Orleans, Jackson
and Great Northern Railroad Company The transaction
between McComb and the Pennsylvania Company is evidenced by three documents, executed on November 8, 1871,
but though evidenced by these separate instruments, there
was mailifestly but a single transaction by which McComb
transferred to the Pennsylvania Company the control of these
two corporations, accomplishing this vesting of control by the
sale of his own stock, at a large price, and a transfer of this
trustee and other stock, without receiving a dollar. Obviously
it was the use of this latter stock that enabled him to sell his
own. If this were all, the obligation to account would unquestionably reach to $125 per share, but the purchase of McComb's
stock was subject to an obligation to repurchase at the end of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

two years, at the same price and thirty per cent advance, less
dividends received by the company This condition may well
be deemed to have entered largely into the fixing of the price,
and prevents that price from being a fair test of the value.
Neither should one or two extravagant statements made by
McComb, apparently to quiet any fears on the part of Snyder
as to his investment and to continue his confidence therein,
be considered sufficient to justify placing any such valuation
on the stock. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the
stock was worth at least what it had cost at the time of the
trust declaration. Indeed, we do not think this is seriously
questioned by the defendant. Little need be said with respect
to the contention of defendant, that McComb did no more
with this stock than a trustee might rightfully do, and that he
used it simply to induce the Pennsylvania Company to take
hold of this association, and manage it for the best interests
of all the stockholders. On the contrary, it is more correct to
say that he used this stock to induce the Pennsylvania Company to buy his own, or at least to increase the price at which
it bought. Evidently the Pennsylvania Company wanted the
control, and for that end a majority of the shares. It might
not have been willing to pay $125 a share if it had been
compelled to buy the 10,000 shares, but would naturally be
willing to pay a larger price for half if the other half could be
placed in its hands without cost, and thus the control obtained.
Very likely the cestut que trust would have preferred $125 in
cash to the promise of even the Pennsylvania Company to
manage the interests of the association for the benefit of all
stockholders.
We think, taking all the circumstances into consideration,
that the Circuit Court reached as nearly as possible what
justice demands when it awarded a return of the amount for
which McComb acknowledged himself a trustee and interest.
The decree will, therefore, be
Affirmed. The costs of thts court will be equally divided
between the partwes.

