PEARSALL v. SMITH.
Syllabus.

cation, and not embraced in such specific claim, are not claimed
by the patentee -at least, not claimed in and by that patent.
So far as that patent is concerned, the claim actually
made operates in law as a disclaimer of what is not claimed."
As No. 348,073 does not claim the composition of matter,
although it describes it, that composition must be regarded as
disclaimed, and as being public property, and there was no
invention m applying it to paper, as claimed m the patent
sued on.
Deoree afirmed.

PEARSAILL v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 198.

Argued and submitted April 18, 1893.-Decided May 1,1893.

An assignee in bankruptcy brought a suit in equity, in September, 1886, to
set aside transfers of property made by the bankrupt in 1874, in fraud
of creditors, and recorded prior to June, 1875. He had been declared a
bankrupt in August, 1878, and the assignment in bankruptcy had been
made in February, 1879. The answers set up the statute of limitations
of the State of six years, and the bankruptcy statute limitation of two
years. Judgment creditors of the bankrupt, included in is schedules
in bankruptcy, brought a suit in the Supreme Court of the State in July,
1875, against the present defendants to set aside as fraudulent the
conveyances in question, and duly filed a Uis pendens, in which suit the
same charges were made as in the present suit. The bill alleged that a
decree was made in that suit, in favor of the plaintiffs, in November,
1885, and that it was not until the assignee in bankruptcy was informed
of that decree, in July, 1886, that he received knowledge or information
of the transfers of the property, or of any facts or circumstances relating
thereto, or tending to show, or to lead to inquiry to, any fraudulent
transfer. The bill did not set forth what were the impediments to an
earlier prosecution of the claim, how the plaintiff came to be so long
ignorant of his rights, the means, if any, used by the defendants fraudulently to keep him in ignorance, or how and when he first obtained
knowledge of the matters alleged in the bill. Held, that the case was a
clear one in favor of the bar of limitation, both by the state statute and
by the bankruptcy statute.

THE case is stated in the opinion. After hearing counsel
for appellant the court declined to hear further argument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

)lYr Benjamm G Rite mgs, (with whom was -Y B. F
Tacy on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr .Matthew Daly, (with whom was -Yr Frederto R.
Ooudert on the brief,) and .Mr Paul -Fullerfor Slauson and
Moses, appellees.
J.Mr James 12. Angel for Smith and Willetts, appellees, and
.A6 James R. Angel and -Hr Elmer A. Allen for Jones,
appellee.
M .

JUSTICE BLATHOIFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York, by
Charles Jones, as assignee in bankruptcy of David M. Smith,
against David M[. Smith, Ella F Willetts, Richard S. Jones,
and Albert Slauson, and is a creditors' bill to set aside several
distinct transfers of property to several of the defendants,
alleged to have been made by Smith in the year 1874, in fraud
of the rights of creditors. The bill was filed September 11,
1886. The answers set up the statute of limitations of the
State of iNew York of six years, and the bankruptcy statute
limitation of two years. Albert Slauson, Austin M. Slauson,
and Robert H. Moses, composing the firm of A. Slauson &
Co., were added as defendants to the bill. They demurred to
it, and the demurrer was overruled. The opinion of the court
overruling the demurrer is reported in 33 Fed. Rep. 632.
Replications to the answers were filed, proofs were taken,
and the court, held by Judge Lacombe, dismissed the bill.
His opinion is reported in 38 Fed. Rep. 380. The assignee,
Charles Jones, appealed to this court. Thomas E. Pearsall
has been appointed his successor, and has taken his place as
appellant in this suit. Pending the appeal, Richard S. Jones,
one of the appellees, has died, and Frances A. Jones, as his
sole executrix, has been admitted as appellee in his place.
The conveyances sought to be set aside are those of three
separate parcels of real estate to the several defendants.

PEARSALL v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

David M. Smith was adjudged a bankrupt in 1878, and was
discharged from his debts in June, 1879. The conveyances
complained of were all made and recorded prior to June 1,
1875. Smith's petition in voluntary bankruptcy was filed
August 31, 1878. The assignment in bankruptcy to Charles
Jones was made February 10, 1879.
The opinion of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill considered, first, the New York state statute of limitations, § 382
of the Code of Civil Procedure, subdivision 5, which provides
that there must be commenced within six years after the cause
of action has accrued "an action to procure a judgment other
than for a sum of money, on the ground of fraud, in a case
which, on the thirty-first day of December, 1846, was cognizable by the court of chancery," and that "the cause of action
in such a case is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery by the plaintiff, or the person under whom he claims,
of the facts constituting the fraud." The Circuit Court held
that this suit was one of the class provided for by the terms
of § 382, subdivision 5, and that, if the plaintiff would be
barred of his relief in the state court by lapse of time, he
would be barred in the federal court also, citing Burke v
Smsth, 16 Wall. 390, 401, Clarke v Boorman's Executors, 18
Wall. 493, 509, Wood v Carpenter,101 U. S. 135, 138, Jirby
v Railroad Co., 120 U S. 130, 138. The Circuit Court further said, that the assignee in bankruptcy takes from the
bankrupt all the rights of property and of action previously
held by him, but that the right to maintain an action such as
the present one does not come to the assignee from that
source, that a transfer made to defraud creditors is valid
between the parties to it, that the debtor has no right of
action to set it aside, and that, therefore, no such right passes
to the assignee as part of the debtor's estate.
Section 5046 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
which is an embodiment of § 14 of the act of March 2, 1867,
ch. 176, (14 Stat. 522,) provides as follows "All property
conveyed by the bankrupt in fraud of his creditors, all rights
in equity, choses in action, patent rights, and copyrights, all
debts due him, or any person for his use, and all liens and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

securities therefor, and all his rights of action for property or
estate, real or personal, and for any cause of action which he
had against any person arising from contract, or from the
unlawful taking or detention, or injury to the property of the
bankrupt, and all his rights of redeeming such property or
estate, together with the like right, title, power, and authority
to sell, manage, dispose of, sue for, and recover or defend the
same, as the bankrupt might have had if no assignment had
been made, shall, in virtue of the adjudication of bankruptcy
and the appointment of his assignee, but subject to the exceptions stated in the preceding section," which are exemptions,
"be at once vested in such assignee."
Section 5057 of the Revised Statutes, which is an embodiment of § 2 of the act of March 2, 1867, ch. 176, (14 Stat. 518,)
provides as follows "No suit, either at law or in equity, shall
be maintainable in any court between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person claiming an adverse interest touching any
property or rights of property transferable to or vested in such
assignee, unless brought within two years from the time when
the cause of action accrued for or against such assignee. And
this provision shall not in any case revive a right of action
barred at the time when an assignee is appointed."
The Circuit Court remarked, that by operation only of the
express terms of § 5046, the right of action which, before the
adjudication in bankruptcy, belonged to the creditors, was
taken from them and given to the assignee, and that, when
the assignee asserted such right, he claimed under the creditors
and not under the bankrupt, citing Brownell v Curtis, 10
Paige, 210, Jones v Yates, 9 B. & C. 532, Fan Heusen. v
]?adoliff, 17 N. Y 580; Bradshaw v Klezn, 2 Bissell, 20, Eane
v ]?tee, 10 Nat. Bank. Reg. 469, In re Leland, 10 Blatchford,
503, 507, T1,7mble v TFoodhead, 102 U. S. 647, -Dudley v
Easton, 104 U S. 99.
The Circuit Court further said that, in determining as to the
effect of lapse of time upon the right of action in this case, it
became necessary, first, to inquire whether there was a discovery of the fraud by those under whom the plaintiff claims,
that actual personal knowledge of the facts constituting the

PEARSALL v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

fraud need not be shown, to charge a person who had been
quiescent for a period longer than that fixed by statute, with
discovery thereof, that it was enough if he was put upon
inquiry, with the means of knowledge accessible to him, citing
Burke v Smzt, 16 Wall. 390, 401, and TWood v OCapenter,
101 U S. 135, 138, that, in the present case, Joseph Kittel and
Joseph J Kittel were judgment creditors of the bankrupt, and
as such included in his schedules in bankruptcy, that, appearing by the attorney who brought the present suit and represents
the other creditors, the Kittels, on July 7, 1875, brought a suit
in the Supreme Court of the State of New York against those
who are defendants in the present suit, to set aside as fraudulent the very conveyances attacked in this suit, and duly filed
a spender , that, in their complaint in that suit, the Kittels
averred not only that those conveyances were made by an
insolvent, but also that the grantees had full knowledge of
the insolvency and participated in the fraud, and that the conveyances were without adequate consideration, that as to one
parcel, the Kittels expressly alleged that the nominal consideration for the conveyance was $1000, "a grossly inadequate
consideration, "1as to another parcel, that though there was a
pretended consideration of $18,000 in the deed, there was
"really no consideration whatever,"' and as to the third parcel,
that though the alleged consideration expressed in the conveyance was $4300, the transfer was made "in reality, if for any
consideration whatever, for a debt of $500; " that it was by
endeavoring to prove that the facts as to those conveyances
are substantially as they were set forth in the Kittels' suit,
that the plaintiff in this suit sought to make out his case, that
it, therefore, appeared that, upwards of eleven years before the
plaintiff brought this suit, all the facts constituting the fraud
had been discovered by one of the creditors under whom he
claims, that the six-years' statute of limitations began to run
at least from the commencement of the Kittels' suit, and that
the bar became complete long before the beginning of the
present suit.
The plaintiff alleges in his bill that a decree was made in
the Kittels' suit on November 30, 1885, in favor of the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

tiffs therein, and that it was not until he was informed of
that decree, which was in July, 1886, that he received any
knowledge or information of the conveyances and transfers of
Smith's property, or of any facts or circumstances relating
thereto or tending to show, or to lead to inquiry as to, any
fraudulent conveyance, transfer, or disposition of property by
Smith.
But this is not sufficient to avoid the allegation of laches in
bringing the present suit, or to bar the application of § 5057
of the Revised Statutes in regard to the two years' limitation.
-Bailey v Glover, 21 Wall. 342, Wood v Carpenter,101 U S.
135, Kirby v Lake Shore Railroad,120 U. S. 130, -Norrisv
-Haggyn,136 U. S. 386.
Although this court has attached to § 5057 of the Revised
Statutes a qualification, that qualification is that where relief
is sought on the ground of fraud, it is necessary, in order to
postpone the right of action on the part of the assignee in
bankruptcy until the discovery of the fraud, that ignorance of
it should have been produced by affirmative acts of the guilty
party, in concealing the facts, and that there should have been
no fault or want of diligence or care on the part of the person
who claims the right of action, in other words, that when
there has been no negligence or laches on the part of a plaintiff in coming to the knowledge of the fraud which is the
foundation of the suit, and when the fraud has been concealed,
or is of such character as to conceal itself, the statute does not
begin to run until the fraud is discovered by, or becomes
known to, the party suing, or those in privity with him, or
ought to have been so discovered or known.
In the present case, the deeds of conveyance by Smith were
recorded. The suit by the Kittels was a public suit. Notice
of is pendens was filed in it, giving the name and the address
of the attorney for the plaintiffs, and they were creditors
through whom the present plaintiff claims, their names being
included as creditors in the bankruptcy schedules. Charles
Jones, the assignee in bankruptcy, was a lawyer of long
standing, familiar with such matters. The bill does not set
forth what were the impediments to an earlier prosecution of

