a OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
AIR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

The differences between the gen-

eral facts in these cases and in that just considered are not controlling as to the result, and, for the reasons given in the opinion in
that case, the applications for the writ of habeas co2rus are severally
Dented.

In re FIUMES, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 20.

Original.

Argued April 17,1893.-Decided April 24, 1893.

A judgment of a Circuit Court to which a writ of error had been sued out,
with a supersedeas bond given, being affirmed here and remanded to the
trial court in the usual way, that court, on motion, summoned in the
sureties, and, although they proposed to interpose a plea of partial payment, proceeded to render judgment against them and the principal for
the full amount of the original judgment with interest and costs. An
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals having been dismissed for nonjoinder of the original defendant, they applied to this court for a writ of
mandamus, commanding the court below to vacate its judgment in so
far as it was rendered against the sureties, and to execute the mandate
by entering judgment and ordering execution against the principal only.
Held, that that judgment was rendered in the exercise of judicial determination, and not in the discharge of a ministerial duty, and that the
petitioners' remedy, if they deemed themselves aggrieved, was by writ
of error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.MrTV -HallettPhillips for petitioners.
Hr George T Whzte, opposing. )Lr William Rlhardson
and Air FJ'rancs Mfartin were with hin on the brief.
MR.

CHIEF

JUsTIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The Third National Bank of Chattanooga recovered a
money judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Alabama against Eugene C.

IN RE HUMES, Petitioner.
Opinon of the Court.

Gordon, April 14, 1888, to reverse which Gordon sued out a
writ of error from this court, giving a supersedeas bond m
the usual form with Milton Humes and C. C. Harris as sureties thereon. March 21, 1892, the judgment of the Circuit
Court was affirmed by this court, and the mandate was thereafterwards issued in the usual form. On the 12th of October,
1892, at a regular term of the Circuit Court, the bank made
a motion upon notice for judgment against the defendant
Gordon and his sureties. To this motion lumes and Harris
appeared and filled a demurrer, which was overruled, and they
then proposed to interpose a plea of partial payment, which
the court refused to permit to be filed or to hear any evidence
upon that subject, whereupon, without any other evidence
than the supersedeas bond and the mandate of this court, the
Circuit Court rendered judgment against Gordon, Humes, and
Harris for the principal, interest, and costs as shown in the
original judgment. To this judgment Hlumes and Harris
prosecuted a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which dismissed the writ because Gordon did not join in it,
and there was no summons and severance or equivalent proceeding. fardee v Wilson, 146 U S. 179, .fason, v. United
States, 136 U S. 581.
Thereupon Humes and Harris applied to tns court for leave
to file a petition for a writ of mandamus and for a rule requiring the judge of the Circuit Court to show cause why he
should not be commanded to execute the mandate of this
court by vacating the judgment in so far as it was rendered
and directed execution against petitioners, and to enter judgment and direct execution against the defendant Gordon without more. Leave was granted to file the petition and a rule
was entered thereon accordingly, to which return has been
duly made. The judgment rendered by the Circuit Court
recites that it appears to the satisfaction of the court that
judgment was recovered against Gordon, a writ of error sued
out and a supersedeas bond given, and further, from an inspection of the mandate of this court, that that judgment was
affirmed, "and the said cause remanded with directions to tins
court to take such further proceedings in said case as right
VOL. cx=-13

