OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the matter at issue, and should have submitted the case to the
jury, with instructions to render a verdict for the importers if
they found that the furniture was not "finished" within the
trade meaning of the term, and for the collector if they found
the contrary
The yudgment of the court below is 'eversed, and the case
'emanded, wth directons to award a new trzal, and proceed sn conformzty wth this oyz'on.

CADWALADER

v.

JESSUP AND

MOORE PAPER

COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT
No. 276.

OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Submitted April 27, 1893.- Decided May 10, 1893.

Old india-rubber shoes, invoiced as "rubber scrap" and entered as "scrap
rubber," were exempt from duty, under the similitude clause, § 2499, of
Title 33 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by § 6 of the act of March 3,
1883, (22 Stat. 491,) as being substantially crude rubber, under § 2503,
they having lost their commercial value as articles composed of indiarubber, or india-rubber fabrics, or india-rubber shoes.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M

Asststant Attorney General Parker for plaintiff in

error.
.X?' Edward L. Perkins for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Court of Common
Pleas, No. 3, for the county of Philadelphia, in the State of

Pennsylvania, by the Jessup and Moore Paper Company
against John Cadwalader, collector of customs for the district

CADWALADER v. JESSUP & MOORE.
Opinion of the Court.

of Philadelphia, to recover an alleged excess of customs duties,
paid by the plaintiff under protest. The case was removed by
the defendant by certwraz, into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The
amount claimed was $236.25. The invoice in the case was of
twenty-two bales of old "rubber scrap." They were entered
as "scrap rubber," and 25 per cent ad valorem was charged
on the merchandise, under the provision of Schedule N of
§ 2502 of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 513, which
imposed a duty of 25 per centum ad valorem on "articles composed of india-rubber, not specially enumerated or provided for
in this act."
Under the free list, § 2503 of the same act, under the head
"Sundries," the following articles, when imported, were made
exempt from duty "India-rubber, crude and milk of." Section
2499 of Title 33 of the Revised Statutes was made, by § 6 of
the same act, 22 Stat. 491, to read, after July 1, 1883, as follows "There shall be levied, collected and paid on each and
every non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either
in material, quality, texture or the use to which it may beapplied, to any article enumerated in this title as chargeable
with duty, the same rate of duty which is levied and charged
on the enumerated article it most resembles in any of the particulars before mentioned, and if any non-enumerated article
equally resembles two or more enumerated articles on which
different rates are chargeable, there shall be levied, collected,
and paid on such non-enumerated article the same rate of duty
as is chargeable on the article which it resembles paying the
highest duty; and on all articles manufactured from two or
more materials the duty shall be assessed at the highest rates
at which the component material of chief value may be chargeable. If two or more rates of duty should be applicable to any
imported article, it shall be classified for duty under the high.
est of such rates Pnovded, That non-enumerated articles
similar in material and quality and texture, and the use to
which they may be applied, to articles on the free list, and in
the manufacture of which no dutiable materials are used, shall
be free."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The articles imported were old india-rubber shoes, purchased
by manufacturers of india-rubber articles, to be ground into a
powder, subjected to a blowing process to extract fibres of the
lining, or to a high temperature to eliminate as much of the
sulphur as possible, and then sheeted out and manipulated in
the same manner and for the same purposes as crude rubber,
the material being only equal in value to a medium grade of
crude rubber.
It was contended by the importer that these old shoes, invoiced as "rubber scrap," and entered as "scrap rubber," were
free, as being substantially crude rubber, on the ground that the
evidence showed that they were non-enumerated articles, and
were similar in material and quality and texture, and the use
to which they were applied, within the meaning of § 2499, to
crude rubber, and were, therefore, exempt from duty The
importer duly filed a protest against the exaction of the duty,
and appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed
the decision of the collector.
The case was tried before the Circuit Court and a jury, and
evidence was given on both sides. At the close of the testimony, the plaintiff requested the court to charge the jury as
follows "1. Articles composed of india-rubber within the
meaning of the existing tariff laws (sec. 2502, Schedule N) are
articles prepared or manufactured from india-rubber, of which
the preparation or manufacture constitutes some portion of
their commercial value. If, therefore, you find that the commercial value possessed by the old rubber shoes upon which
the plaintiffs in this case allege that the duty in this instance
was improperly imposed was due solely to the rubber they
contained, and not to the preparation or manufacture which
they had undergone, they were not 'articles composed of rubber' within the meaning of the tariff laws as at present in
force." The court affirmed that proposition and the defendant excepted.
The~plaintiff also requested the court to charge the jury as
follows "2. If you find that the ' old rubber shoes' in question in this suit were not composed of india-rubber within the
meaning of the tariff law, and if you find that said 'old rubber

CADWALADER v. JESSUP & MOORE.
Opinion of the Court.

shoes' were similar in material, quality, texture and the use
to which they can be applied to crude rubber, your verdict
must be for the plaintiffs." The court affirmed that proposition, and the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff also requested the court to charge the jury as
follows "3. Under all the evidence, your verdict must be for
the plaintiffs." The court affirmed that proposition, and the
defendant excepted.
The defendant requested the court to charge the jury as
follows "1. If you believe that the importation in suit is
composed of india-rubber not specially enumerated or provided for in the act of March 3, 1883, your verdict should be
for the defendant. 2. If you believe that the importation in
suit bears a similitude in material, quality, texture, or the use
to which it may be applied, to an article composed of indiarubber, then your verdict should be for the defendant. 3.
Even if the importation in suit be used for the purpose of reclaiming, by chemical process, the rubber contained therein,
yet if the product is inferior in material, quality, and texture
to crude rubber, then it is not such a similitude to crude rubber as it is necessary under section 2499 for the plaintiff to
prove to entitle him to recover, and your verdict should be for
the defendant. 4. Your verdict in this case should be for the
defendant." The court refused each request, and the defendant excepted to each refusal.
The court said to the jury that, if the plaintiff's first point
was sound, the plaintiff was entitled to recover, that the
court would instruct the jury proforaa, for the purpose of
enabling them to find a verdict, that the law was correct as
stated in the plaintiff's first point, and the plaintiff was entitled to recover, but that the court reserved the right to enter
a verdict for the defendant, if it should be found that the law
was not correctly stated in the plaintiff's first point. The
court further said to the jury" "This action turns altogether
upon a question of law on the constructions which are given to
the act of Congress, and as we wish to give further time to
the consideration of this question, and to have argument before the full bench upon the subject, I instruct you that the
VOL. CXLix-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

law, as stated in plaintiff's first point, is a correct statement of
the law, and in that view, under the facts here, the plaintiff is
entitled to a verdict for the amount of duty exacted in excess
of what should have been charged. This will be subject to
consideration by the court hereafter, and the court reserves the
right to enter a verdict for the defendant in oase it should be
satisfied that the law is not as stated in this point." The jury
rendered a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $255.72.
Subsequently, the defendant moved the court to grant
judgment in his favor non obstante veredicto, the case was
argued, the motion was denied, and judgment was entered in
favor of the plaintiff for the amount of the verdict. The
defendant has brought a writ of error, but we are not furnished with any brief in its support.
The uncontradicted testimony is to the effect that the only
commercial use or value of the old india-rubber shoes, or scrap
rubber, or rubber scrap in question, is by reason of the indiarubber contained therein, as a substitute for crude rubber;
that the old shoes were of commercial use and value only by
reason of the india-rubber they contained, as a substitute for
crude rubber, and not by reason of any preparation or manufacture which they had undergone, that they could not fairly
be called "articles composed of india-rubber," and as such
dutiable at 25 per centum ad valorem, and that, although the
shoes may have been originally manufactured articles composed of india-rubber, they had lost their commercial value as
such articles, and substantially were merely the material called
"crude rubber." They were not india-rubber fabrics, or indiarubber shoes, because they had lost substantially their commercial value as such. .ileyer v Ar'thur, 91 U S. 570,
Iorthbngton v Robbtns, 139 U S. 337, 341, American Ndret
& Twzne Co. v TMorthnyton, 141 U. S. 468, J'tnge v Iledden, 146 U S. 233, 237
Unde, the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, (26 Stat. 607,)
paragraph 613, the following articles are made exempt from
duty " India-rubber, crude and milk of, and old scrap or
refuse india-rubber, which has been worn out by use and is fit
only for remanufacture." The proper description of the im-

