OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

that the assignment of naked claims against the government
for the purpose of suit, or in view of litigation or otherwise,
should not be countenanced. At common law, the transfer
of a mere right to recover in an action at law was forbidden
as violating the rule against maintenance and champerty, and
although the rigor of that rule has been relaxed, an assignment of a chose in action will not be sanctioned when it is
opposed to any rule of law or public policy
These considerations are apposite in arriving at the true
construction of sections 2931 and 3011, and we are clear that
the action provided for cannot be maintained by a stranger
suing solely in virtue of a purchase of claims from those who
did not see fit to prosecute them themselves.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded with a
direction to dismiss the complaint.

Judgment revereed.

SHAEFFER v. BLAIR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 178. Argued March 27,1893.-Decided May 1, 1893.

By a contract in writing, A and B agreed that certain lands, for the sale
and conveyance of most of which A held agreements of third persons,
should be purchased for the mutual interest of A and B, and the legal
title taken in A's name, and conveyed by him to B, that B should advance
to A the sums required to pay the purchase money, as well as other
expenses to be mutually agreed upon from time to time, and be repaid
his advances, with interest, out of the net proceeds of sales; that A
should attend to preparing the lands for sale, and sell them, subject to
B's approval, at prices mutually agreed upon, and retain a commission
of five per cent on the gross amount of sales, and, until B was reimbursed
for his advances, deposit the rest of the proceeds to B's credit in a bank
to be mutually agreed upon, that, when B had been so reimbursed, "then
the remainder of the property shall belong sixtv per cent to B and forty
per cent to A " and that the property should be prepared for sale "by
A or assigns" within a certain time, unless extended by mutual agreement. A fraudulently obtained from B much larger sums of money

SHAEFFER v. BLAIR.
Statement of the Case.
than were needed to pay for the lands, procured conveyances of the
lands to himself, and refused to convey them to B. Held, that, whether
the contract did or did not create a partnership, (and it seems that it did
not,) the equitable title in the lands, after reimbursing B for his advances
with interest, belonged three fifths to B and two fifths to A, and that
A's fraudulent misconduct, while it deprived him of the right to the
stipulated commissions, did not divest him of his title in the lands.

THis was a bill in equity, filed December 8, 18S5, by John
I. Blair, a citizen of Missouri, against Samuel 0. Shaeffer, a
citizen of Ohio, and other persons, citizens of other States,
claiming under him, setting forth a contract in writing between
the plaintiff and Shaeffer, dated February 4, 1881, (which is
copied in the margin,') and praying that Shaeffer might- be
I Whereas, by virtue of a certain contract made by Samuel C. Shaeffer,
of Lancaster, Ohio, with P. Cardenas, of New York city, for the purchase of
thirty-six and 4% acres of land in Jackson County, Missouri, and known as
lot 7 of the partition of the estate of Thomas West, deceasd, by the circuit
court of Jackson County, Missouri, on October 18, 1880, as per contract
dated November 1, 1883, for which said land the said Shaeffer was to pay
the said Cardenas the sum of $21,882 on or before February 8, 1884. Now
it is agreed, as said contract is made by said Shaeffer for said land, and for
prudential purposes, that the same shall be conveyed by warranty deed to
said Shaeffer- and that John I. Blair, of Blairstown, New Jersey, has paid
for the same by giving to said Shaeffer a check on the National Park Bank
of New York city for the sum of $21,882, signed by the president of the
Belvidere National Bank of New Jersey to enable him to pay for the said
land.
And whereas, by another agreement made by said Shaeffer with Marion
West, of Jackson County, Missouri, dated July 24, 1882, and October 21,
1882, whereby said Marion West sold the interests of Frank West, Thomas
West and Joseph C. West, minor heirs of Thomas West, deceased, and
known as lots 5, 6 and 8, of the partition of the estate of said Thomas
West, deceased, by the circuit court of Jackson County, Missouri, on
October 18, 1880; for which said land, by said contract, said Shaeffer was
to pay the sum of $44,559; $10,000 to be paid cash upon the delivery of
deed, and the remainder, $34,559, to wit, $17,279.50 on or before February
8, 1885, and $17,279.50 on or before February 1, 1886, bearing eight per
cent interest from February 1, 1883, and secured by mortgage on said
premises. The said John I. Blair has given to said Shaeffer a check, signed
by the president of the Belvidere National Bank of New Jersey, on the
National Park Bank of New York city, for $10,000, to enable said Shaeffer
to pay that much on account of said lands, and for prudential reasons to
obtain a deed for the same in his own name. The said Blair is to pay the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ordered to convey to the plaintiff the lands described in that
contract, and that it be adjudged that the defendants had no
title or interest therein, and for further relief.
balance of the purchase money at maturity, amounting to $34,559, given by
said Shaeffer and secured by mortgage.
This makes at this time the cash payments on the above two contracts
$21,882 and $10,000, making $31,882, which is to bear eight per cent interest
until paid out of the sales of the land aforesaid, the interest to be added to
the principal yearly, and bear eight per cent interest until paid.
Within four months after said Shaeffer shall have obtained the title to
said lands, or sooner, if desired by said Blair, said Shaeffer to make a warrantv deed to said Blair for said lands.
Now it is further agreed that, for the mutual interest of said Blair and
Shaeffer, it may be deemed advisable to obtain certain releases for pretended
claims made by the Anthony heirs to said property, the sum for said purpose to be mutually agreed upon, which sum said Blair agrees to furnish to
said Shaeffer, upon telegraphic notice, to aid him in securing said releases;
and said Shaeffer afterwards to deed by release deed said lands to said Blair.
Said money to iarsame rate of interest and governed by same conditions
as hereinbefore stipulated, the same to be endorsed on this contract, or
other written evidences given that said Blair paid the money.
It is deemed for the mutual interest of said Blair and Shaeffer, that said
Shaeffer purchase the sixty-nine acres of land from John S. West, adjoining
the above-described lands, at a price not to exceed $400 per acre, amounting
to $27,600, and to obtain a warranty deed therefor. Said John I. Blair has
given said Shaeffer the president's check of the Belvidere National Bank of
New Jersey, on the National Park Bank of New York city for $14,600,
as part payment for said sixty-nine acres of land. If said property cannot
be purchased for said $27,600, then said $14,600 check to be returned to said
Blair unused. Said Blair agrees to assume and pay $13,000 mortgage on
said property, which said Shaeffer will give to said West, payable in one
or two years, and bearing eight per cent interest, in case said purchase can be
made; said Shaeffer, within four months after obtaining title to said land,
to deed same to said Blair. All the money paid and furnished and assumed,
to pay for said land, by said Blair, to bear eight per cent interest, and be
added to the principal each year until paid.
All moneys necessary to stake off lots, grade streets, advertising, office
furniture, fixtures, rents, stationery, taxes, and such other expenses as may
become necessary for the improvements and sale of said property as may
be mutually agreed upon from time to time by said Blair and Shaeffer, shall
be furnished by said Blair.
Said Shaeffer is to deduct and receive five per cent commission upon gross
sales of all lots sold at the agreed price or over, made by said Blair and
Shaeffer; and the remainder to be deposited in some bank in Kansas City
that may be mutually agreed upon, to the credit of said John I. Blair, until

SHAEFFER v. BLAIR.
Statement of the Case.

At the hearing in the Circuit Court, upon pleadings, and
proofs, the case appeared to be in substance as follows In
February, 188-, Shaeffer obtained and received from the plaintiff sums of money amounting to $92,882.70, upon fraudulent
representations that they were needed to pay for the lands
described in the contract, and, within a month after its date,
procured conveyances of those lands to himself, by paying
therefor sums amounting to $59,789.30 only, and paid $500
for taxes and other necessary expenses, leaving the sum of
$32,593.40 due to the plaintiff, and afterwards refused, on
all the money he has paid or advanced, with interest as aforesaid, shall have
been returned to him. At the end of each month, said Shaeffer is to report
the amount to the credit of said Blair, the same to be subject to said Blair's
draft on account of the money advanced or paid for the property and otherwise as aforesaid.
All contracts for the sale of said land or lots to be made in triplicate, and
approved by said John I. Blair, or some one appointed byohim, on the back
of said contracts the word "approved" or ",rejected" to be written and
signed by said John I. Blair, as aforesaid, one copy of said contract to be
retained by said Shaeffer, and one by the purchaser. It shall be specified
on the face of said contracts that they shall not be valid unless approved
as specified, and all contracts to be made payable to said John I. Blair.
When said Blair shall have been paid in cash, for all the money advanced
and furnished by him for the purchase of said lands, and other moneys, and
the interest thereon, as specified, then the remainder of the property shall
belong, sixty per cent to said Blair and forty per cent to said Shaeffer; and
then said Shaeffer shall not be required to deposit in the aforesaid bank, as
aforesaid specified, to the credit of said Blair, more than sixty per cent of
the net proceeds of sales of said lands or lots.
If it is at this time desirable to divide said lots or land between said Blair
and Shaeffer, said Blair to take sixty per cent, and said Blair to convey the
title to forty per cent of said property or lots by warranty deed to Shaeffer;
or said Shaeffer to sell the lots or lands as aforesaid, and divide the net
proceeds of sale, sixty per cent to said Blair and forty per cent to said
Shaeffer.
It is understood that said property or any portion thereof, to be staked
out and prepared for sale within one year, by said Shaeffer or assigns, after
the Kansas City Belt Railway shall have been completed to said property
unless otherwise postponed in writing by said Blair and Shaeffer.
In witness whereof the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and
seals on this 4th day of February, 1884, at Kansas City, Missouri.
SAMrUEL C. SHAEFFER.

[SEAL.]

JOHN I. BLAIR.

[SEAL.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellee.

,demand, to convey the lands to the plaintiff. The three tracts
of land described in the contract contained, respectively, about
thirty-six and a half acres, about one hundred and thirty-eight
acres, and sixty-nine acres, near Kansas City, in the State of
-Missouri, and were worth more at the time of the contract than
the sums paid by the plaintiff, and greatly increased in value
afterwards.
In an action at law against Shaeffer, submitted to the
Circuit Court without a jury at the same time with the
present suit in equity, the plaintiff recovered judgment for
the aforesaid sum of $32,593.40. Upon that judgment no
writ or error was sued out.
In the present suit, the Circuit Court held that the contract
sued on created no partnership between the plaintiff and
Shaeffer, and conferred on Shaeffer only the right of an agent
to sell, with a share in the profits by way of compensation,
and that Shaeffer, by his fraudulent conduct, had forfeited all
his rights under the contract, including not only the five per
cent commission on sales, but the share of forty per cent in the
net profits remaining after payment of the sums advanced by
the plaintiff, and entered a decree for the plaintiff, as prayed
for. 33 Fed. Rep. 218. From this decree Shaeffer appealed
to this court.
.MHr C. D

far'&n and .fr

R. A. Harrsonfor appellant.

.Mr Charles 0 Tichenor for appellee.

I. It is contended that the payment by Blair for these lands
was only a loan to Shaeffer, with the lands as security But
the contract creates no debt in favor of Blair. It carefully
shields Shaeffer from any liability for the money which Blair
is compelled to pay from time to time. Blair even agrees "to
assume and pay" a mortgage which Shaeffer contemplates
giving under the contract for a part of the purchase money
Blair binds himself to pay everything, Shaeffer binds himself
to pay nothing, Shaeffer, under the contract, must get onetwentieth of the gross sales of the land, even if it is sold for
one-half its cost.

SHAEFFER v. ,BLAIR.
Argument for Appellee.

II. Another defence, as stated in the answer, is, that "it
does appear by said contract, and it is true and so intended
by said Blair and Shaeffer, that said contract created a partnership concerming said lands and the proceeds of the sale
thereof." Is this claim valid 2
There are certain tests by which this question must be
solved. What does the instrument show that they intended
by it in this respect 2 For persons cannot be made to assume
the relations of partners, as between themselves, when their
purpose is that no partnership shall exist. Burckle v Ecliart,
I Denio, 337, Beeiher v Bush, 45 Michigan, 188, Hazzard
v Hazzard, 1 Story, 371, London .Assurance Co. v Drennen,
116 U S. 461, .l-ecDonald v Aatney, 82 Missouri, 358.
It is nowhere stated in the contract that the parties were
to be partners. There is nothing said about a firm name, in
fact, there was no business to be carried on. The contract is
not in the form of partnership contracts. There is nothing
in it to lead Blair to suspect that he was making himself liable
to a suit for dissolution, subjecting the land Which he had
bought and paid for to the risk of going into the hands of a
receiver, to be sold under order of court, attended with delays,
vexation and great expense. The word "assigns" is significant, a word not used in a partnership contract. To assign is
to dissolve.
The relation of the parties to each other was simply that
of principal and agent. In no way was Blair the agent of
Shaeffer, and the latter never had the authority of a partnerThe contract made him an agent with limited powers, if he
exercised any discretion he violated his contract. He did not
have the power of an ordinary real estate agent, and his acts
could have created no partnership liabilities, even as to third
persons, for the contract was entitled to record and when
recorded was notice.
Lord Wensleydale says, in Cox v .irkman, 8 H. L. Cas.
268, 312
"The law as to partnership is undoubtedly a
branch of the law of principal and agent, and it would tend
to simplify and make more easy of solution the questions
which arise on this subject, if this true principle were more

OCTOBFR TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellee.

A man who allows another
constantly kept in view
to carry on trade, whether in his own name or not, to buy and
sell and to pay over all the profits to him, is undoubtedly the
principal, and the person so employed the agent, and the principal is liable for the agent's contracts in the course of his
employment." See also WTinel v Stone, 30 Maine, 384,
T/ompson v. Bowman, 6 Wall. 316.

In the leading case of .Neehan v Valentme, 145 U S. 611,
623, this court, while criticising what was said by Lord Wensleydale as to agency, approves of the rule laid down in Cox
v Hickman, and Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court,
says "If they do this, the incidents or consequences follow,
that the acts of one in conducting the partnership business are
the acts of all, that each is agent for the firm and for the
other partners, that each receives part of the profits as profits,
and takes part of the fund to which the creditors of the partnership have a right to look for the payment of their debts,
that all are liable as partners upon contracts made by any
of them with third persons within the scope of the partnership business, and that even an express stipulation between
them, 'that one shall not be so liable, though good between
themselves, is ineffectual as against third persons."
Here there was no community of interest in the land. True,
Shaeffer, at first, took the title not because he owned an interest, but for prudential reasons. He held it for Blair, and
was compelled to convey to him. Shaeffer was never to get
any interest unless the speculation turned out favorably, and
then solely as compensation, because there were profits. Such
an interest did not work a change, either in possession or title.
Drennen v London Assurance Co., supra, .Musser v Brink,

68 Missouri, 242. There was no community of profit, no
interest in the profits as principal, no specific interest in
profits as profits, in contradistinction to a stipulated portion of
the profits as compensation for services.
So, then, we say, Shaeffer was to have no partnership or
property right, from the start, in the profits, but his interest
was only at the end, when the land was sold, and not even
then, unless he had performed the services contemplated by

SHAEFFER v. BLAIR.
Opimon of the Court.

the contract on his part. Hanna v Fint, 16 California, 76,
Wfalker v Hirsch, 27 Ch. D. 460, Durkee v Gunn, 41 Kansas, 496, Holmes v Old Colony Railroad,5 Gray, 58. Seymour v. Freer,8 Wall. 202, is not in conflict with our contention.
If the contract of February 4, 1884, created neither the
relation of partnership nor that of debtor and creditor, it
made Shaeffer the agent of Blair for the purposes specified in
the contract. Dzernger v .Meyer, 42 Wisconsin, 311, Phono .Mutual LZe Ins. Co. v Holloway, 57 Connecticut, 310,
Vennur v. Gregory, 21 Iowa, 326, Balsbaugh v. Fazer, 19
Penn. St. 95, Farnsworth v. Hemmer, 1 Allen, 494, S. C.
79 Am. Dec. 756.
Blair's case is stronger than any case cited, for the evidence
shows that the fraud accomplished was by means of the contract, and was in pursuance of a design formed prior to the
execution of the contract. Even though the contract made
them partners, yet, under such circumstances, a court would
decree it a nullity, leaving Blair with the land which he
bought to put into the partnership. Hynes v. Stewart, 10 B.
Mon. 429, Gibson v Cunnngham, 92 Missouri, 131, -Yewbggmg v. Adam, 34: Ch. D. 582, Oter, v S&alzo, 145 U. S. 578.
Mn. JusTicE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision of this case turns upon the construction of the
contract of February 4, 1884, by which the parties agreed to
buy certain lands and to sell them again for the joint benefit
of both.
The provisions of that contract were, in substance, that
those lands, in the greater part of which Shaeffer already had
an equitable title under agreements of third persons to sell and
convey them to him, should be purchased, for the mutual
interest of the parties, that the legal title in all the lands
should be taken in Shaeffer's name, and be conveyed by him
to Blair, that Blair should advance the sums required to
enable Shaeffer to pay the purchase money of the lands, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court

well as the necessary expenses of preparing them for sale and
selling them, and should be repaid his advances, with interest,
out of the net proceeds of sales, that Shaeffer should stake
out the lands for sale, make the necessary improvements, sell
them, retain a commission of five per cent upon the gross
amount of sales, and, until Blair should have been reimbursed
for his advances, deposit the rest of the proceeds in a bank to
Blair's credit, that the expenses of improving and selling the
lands, the time within which they must be prepared for sale,
the price at which they might be sold, and the bank in which
the proceeds should be deposited by Shaeffer, should be mutually agreed upon between him and Blair, and all contracts of
sale by Shaeffer should be approved by Blair, and that, when
A- Blair should have been reimbursed for all his advances, "then
the remainder of the property shall belong, sixty per cent to
said Blair and forty per cent to said Shaeffer," and be divided
between them accordingly, either by Blair's conveying the
title in two fifths of the lands to Shaeffer, or by Shaeffer's
selling the lands and paying sixty per cent of the proceeds to
I Blair.
The contract evidently contemplated that, while the sales
to be made by Shaeffer should be subject to Blair's approval,
no sales should be made by Blair without Shaeffer's consent.
This clearly appears from several provisions of the contract.
It is by Shaeffer, or, as said in the last clause of the contract,
"by said Shaeffer or assigns," that the lands are to be staked
out into lots and prepared for sale. "Said Shaeffer is to
deduct and receive five per cent commission upon gross sales
of all lots sold at the agreed price or over, made by said Blair
and Shaeffer," that is to say, "of all lots sold" by Shaeffer
at the agreed price or over," the price (not the sales) being
"made by said Blair and Shaeffer." The provision that all
contracts of sale shall be made in triplicate, and approved in
writing by Blair, and one copy retained by Shaeffer, clearly
implies that all contracts of sale shall be initiated by Shaeffer.
And after Blair shall have been reimbursed his advances,
then, if the lands are not themselves divided between them, it
is Shaeffer who is to sell them and divide the proceeds.

SHAEFFER v. BLAIR.
Opmon of the Court.

In short, Shaeffer was to contribute to the venture his
equitable title in the greater part of the lands to be purchased,
as well as his own services, Blair was to contribute all the
money required to carry out the enterprise, the legal title
was to be taken in Shaeffer's name, and conveyed by him to
Blair, Shaeffer was to attend to preparing the lands for sale,
and to sell them, subject to Blair's approval, Shaeffer was to
receive a commission of five per cent on the gross amount of
sales, out of the rest of the proceeds, Blair was to be repaid
his advances, and after Blair had been reimbursed, the
property was to belong, three fifths to Blair and two fifths to
Shaeffer, and to be divided between them accordingly, either
in lands or in money
Taking into consideration the whole scope of the contract,
and the fact that, before it was made, Shaeffer had an equitable interest in the greater part of the lands, which was in fact,
and was evidently considered by both parties to be, of greater
value than the price which he had agreed to pay for them,
that the title to all the lands was to be taken in Shaeffer's
name in the first instance, and to be conveyed by him to
Blair; and especially the express stipulation that, after Blair
should have been fully reimbursed for his advances, out of the
proceeds of sales, "then the remainder of the property shall
belong, sixty per cent to said Blair and forty per cent to said
Shaeffer," and should be divided between them accordingly,
the conclusion appears to us to be inevitable, that the conveyance of the legal title by Shaeffer to Blair, like the deposit of
proceeds of sales made by Shaeffer to Blair's credit, was
intended as security only for Blair's advances; that Shaeffer
was to have and retain an equitable title in two fifths of the
land, subject to the claim of Blair for reimbursement, and
that Shaeffer's fraudulent misconduct, while it might properly
defeat any claim of his for commissions, did not divest him of
his equitable title in the lands, as recognized and stipulated
for in the contract.
There may doubtless be a partnership in the purchase and ,the resale of lands, as of any other property But this
contract contains no expression to indicate an intention of the
VoL. CXLIX-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

parties to become partners. It does not authorize either
party, without the consent of the other, to sell any property,
or to contract any debts, on behalf of both. If the enterprise
proves unsuccessful, the contract does not provide or contemplate that Shaeffer shall share the loss. And the phrase "said
8haeffer or assigns" in the last clause (unless supposed to be
inadvertently inserted) is hardly consistent with the idea of a
partnership. There is great difficulty, therefore, in the way
of construing this contract as creating a partnership between
Blair and Shaeffer. Thompson v Bowman, 6 Wall. 316,
Seymour v .Freer,8 Wall. 202; .iheehtn v Talentne, 145 U. S.
611, 623.
But it is unnecessary to express a decisive opinion upon that
point, because, whether Shaeffer was acting as a partner, or
only as an agent, in performing the duties required of him by
the contract, the fraudulent misconduct proved against him
deprived him of the right to the stipulated commissions.
Denver v Roane, 99 U S. 355, W-adsworth v Adams, 138
U S. 380. And whether he was or was not a partner, that misconduct did not operate to forfeit his equitable title in the lands.
The result is, that Blair is not entitled to the entire property,
except as security for the sums advanced by him, and for any
reasonable expenses, including the amount ascertained by the
judgment at law between the parties, (so far as they remain
unpaid,) with interest computed according to the contract, and
that, after reunbursing him for such advances and expenses,
the lands belong, in equity, three fifths to Blair and two fifths
to Shaeffer.
The decree of the Circuit Court, adjudging that Shaeffer has
no title or interest in the lands, is therefore erroneous, and
must be reversed, and the case is to be remanded to that
court, with directions to order that the lands, or so much
thereof as may be necessary to pay and satisfy the sums due to
the plaintiff for advances and expenses, be forthwith sold, and
the proceeds applied to the payment of those sums, and that
any lands or proceeds remaining, after so reimbursing the
plaintiff, be divided between him and Shaeffer in the proportions aforesaid.

