IRICHMOND & DANVILLE RAILROAD v. POWERS.

43

Statement of the Case.

RICHMOND AND DANVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
V. POWERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 200. Argued April 6,1893.-Decided April 17,1893.

Where, in an action against a common carrier to recover damages for injuries to a passenger, there is uncertainty as to the existence of either
negligence or contributory negligence, the question is not one of law,
but of fact, and to be settled by a 3ury; and this, whether the uncertainty
arises from a conflict in the testimony, or because the facts being undisputed, fair-minded men will honestly draw different conclusions from
them.

ON April 11, 1886, W D. Powers was run over by a train
belonging to the Richmond and Danville Railroad Company,
at a station known as " L u la," and so injured that he died in
a few hours. This action was brought to recover damages
therefor. The plaintiffs are his children, and the proper parties under the Georgia statutes to maintain the action. It
was commenced in the city court of Atlanta, Georgia, and
thence removed by the defendant to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the :Northern District of Georgia. A trial
was had in November, 1888, which resulted in a verdict and
judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for $9800. On the trial
the defendant asked the following instruction.
_ "The undisputed fact exists in this case that the deceased
man, Powers, being at the time about forty-five years of age,
and, so far as the evidence discloses, in full possession of all
his faculties, deliberately stepped upon the railroad track
immediately in front of an engine which was running towards
him at the rate of five or six miles an hour, and not more
than ten feet off, and was almost instantly run over and killed.
"To say that this was an ordinarily careful act or that this
conduct was not negligence on his part would do violence to
a plain and well-settled principle of law Admitting that he

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

was a passenger, and, therefore, not bound, as a traveller on
the highway approaching a crossing would be bound, to listen
and to look both ways before attempting to cross the track,
still the immediate presence, within a few feet, of a moving
locomotive would, it seems to me, have awakened all the
senses of an ordinarily careful man, and would have warned
him in more ways than one that he ought not to pat himself
on the track right in front of it.
"It cannot be doubted that this was a careless and dangerous step. If he had been ordinarily careful he would not
have been killed or injured, even if the defendant was negligent. There is nothing in the other testimony in the case
which relieves him from the consequences of this act of negligence. If he had not died and had brought suit he could not
have recovered, nor can these plaintiffs recover under these
facts, and it is, therefore, your duty under the law to find a
verdict for the defendant."
This instruction was refused, and exception duly take,/
-Mr Pope Barrow for plaintiff in error.
I respectfully submit that the unfortunate man was not
ordinarily careful and there was nothing in the case for a
jury Bancroft v Boston & Worcester Railroad, 97 Mass.
275, Schofteld v Chwago, .'ilwaukee & St. Paul Railway,
114 U S. 615 Central Railroad v Harrms, 76 Georgia, 501,
Atlanta Railroadv Loftn, 86 Georgia, 43, Amerwus, Preston &c. Railroadv Luckie, 87 Georgia, 6.
Mr Henry Jackson and .Mr T J Zeftwwh filed a brief
for plaintiff in error.
Ir Hloke Snitk for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRnwFR,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only error assigned is in the refusal of the court to
instruct the jury as requested, substantially that the deceased

RICHMOND & DANVILLE RAILROAD v. POWERS. 45
Opinion of the Court.

was guilty of such contributory negligence as to prevent a
recovery It is well settled that where there is uncertainty as
to the existence of either negligence or contributory negligence, the question is not one of law, but of fact, and to be
settled by a jury , and this, whether the uncertainty arises
from a conflict in the testimony, or because the facts being
undisputed, fairminded men will honestly draw different conclusions from them. Railroad Co. v Stout, 17 Wall. 657,
TFaskington & Georgetown Railroad v XMcDade, 135 TT S.
554, Dezaware & -Laceawanna 1Railroad v Converse, 139
U. S. 469. )
No objetion is made to the instructions which were given,
no suggestion that the law as to negligence and contributory
negligence was not properly stated to the jury, so we have
the question whether the facts as developed by the testimony
were such as to compel a declaration, as a matter of law, by
the court that there was contributory negligence-on the part
of the deceased, such as to prevent a recovery
rhat are the
facts as disclosed by the testimony 2 Lula is a station in Hall
County, Georgia, at which at that time both the north and
southbound trains of the defendant's road stopped for supper.
Deceased was a passenger on the northbound train. There
were two tracks in front of the station and eating-house. The
southbound train arrived first and ran along the inner track,
the one nearest to the station. After its passengers had all
gone in to supper, it moved back towards the north, and left
the space in front of the station and eating-house open. Soon
afterwards the northbound train came in and passed up on the
outer track. This was about eight o'clock in the evening.
The deceased did not intend to go any further than Lula, and
expected to spend the night there. The two tracks were
from eight to ten feet apart, the earth between the rails on
the inner track had been levelled up, covering the ties, so as to
make a smooth place for walking upon. There was no light
other than the head-lights of the locomotives, and from a bonfire of pine knots near the eating-house. After the northbound train had stopped and other passengers had left the
train for the purpose of going in to supper, deceased started

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

with two satchels, one in each hand, across the track to go to
the eating-house or hotel, and just at that time the southbound
train moved up, and ran upon and injured him. In reference
to the foregoing facts there was no disputeJ
SFurther than that, there was testimony tending to show
that, as deceased was leaving the train, a man with his wife
and two children, five and seven years of age, started to get
off the car, that deceased, putting down his satchels, stopped
to help them off, that there was no conductor, brakeman or
other officer of the company present to render any assistance,
that, after they were safely off the car, deceased took up his
satchels, and they all started iearly together in the direction
of the eating-house, at an angle across the inner track, that
while thus walking the southbound train came along, without
ringing a bell, at a rapid speed, that the engineer, being on
the right hand of the engine, could not see any one on the left
side of the track for quite a distance in front of the engine, and
the fireman was so occupied that he could not see the track at
all, that, just as the engine neared the party, somebody called
out, and the man who had been helped off the train by the deceased jumped, with his wife, pushing the children over, and
barely landing on the platform as the engine passed by, while
deceased, who was at the side but a trifle in the rear of the
others, was caught by it and run over. It did not appear that
any of the party had ever been at Lula before, or knew of the
existence of an inner track or the situation or surroundings,
although, it did appear that the deceased had been travelling
on the railroad. The man and his wife who thus narrowly escaped testified that they did not know there was a track upon
which they were walking, that no bell was rung, and that
they had no thought of an approaching train until the outcry,
upon which they jumped and barely saved themselves. What
the deceased heard and saw and knew is not affirmatively
shown, but the entire circumstances of the injury tend to show
that he was as ignorant as they in respect to these matters.
They had moved but a few steps from the car towards the
eating-house before the deceased was struck. 1fUpon such facts
as these, is it not a question, upon which minds might differ,

RICHMOND & DANVILLE RAILROAD v. POWERS. 47
Opinion of the Court.

as to whether the deceased was guilty of contributory negligence 2 Do not these facts tend, at least, to show that he was
exercising
passeneer wsndue care?) His tarrying behind the other passen
gers was owing simply to his effort to help those who needed
help, and in discharging a duty resting upon the officers of the
company, and neglected by them. After they had all alighted
from the car, they started together in the direction of the
eating-house, as disclosed by the bonfire, without knowledge
of an mtervening track, or without thought of an approaching
tram. :No bell was rung, no warning given until the moment
of the accident, and then too late for all of the party to save
themselves.
It seems as though there could be but one answer to these
questions. If these facts do not establish due care on his part,
they at least tend very strongly to prove it. It is true that
there was testimony tending to show a'different state of facts,
that the bell of the engine was rung as it moved down the
track in front of the station-house, that it was moving at a
very slow rate of speed -not
faster than a man would walk, that the deceased on alighting put down his satchels, waiting
for some one from the hotel to come and help him carry them,
and that he was there some minutes before he started for the
hotel. And, indeed, there was some testimony tending to show that there were no such persons present as the family
who claimed that they were helped off the train by deceased.
But, of course, all conflict in the testimony was settled by the
jury, and could not be determined by the courtand unless it
were affirmatively shown that the deceased w!
he Neft the
car and started towards the eating-house knew that he was
walking along a track, and that there was danger from
another train, and with such knowledge neither looked nor
took precautions to satisfy himself whether there was present
danger therefrom, it surely cannot be held that there was, as
a matter of law, contributory negligence on his part)
There was no error m refusing the instruction, and the
judgment is
Affrmed.

