OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

HOLLENDER v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 172. Argued April 10, 1893. -Decided May 10, 1893.

The word "liquors" is frequently if not generally, used to define spirits or
distilled beverages, in contradistinction to those that are fermented. It is
so used in Schedule H of the tariff act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 505, c. 121.
The word "liquors" as used in that section is obviously the result of misspelling, "liqueurs" being intended.
The multitude of articles upon which duty was imposed by the tariff act of
1883, are grouped in that act under fourteen schedules, each with a different title, and all that was intended by those titles was a general suggestion as to the character of the articles within the particular schedule, and
not any technically accurate definition of them.
Generally speaking, a "sound price" implies a sound article. It appearing
that the cost of the beer in question at the place of export, was equivalent to 17-?e, cents per gallon, and that upon being examined in New York
much of it was thrown into the streets as worthless, that but little of it
was sold,.and that for three cents per gallon, itmay be assumed that it
was a sound article when shipped at the place of export.
THE facts in this case are these On October 19, 1886, the
plaintiffs imported and entered at New York 226 casks, aggregating 2861 gallons of beer, on which the defendant, as collector of the port, exacted duty at twenty cents a gallon. This

was paid by the plaintiffs under protest, they insisting that
the beer had become

importation.

sour and worthless on the voyage of

They applied on October 26 for a rebate on

account, and to the extent, of this damage, under Rev Stat.

ยง 2927, which is as follows
"SEC.

2927. In respect to articles that have been damaged

during the voyage, whether subject to a duty ad valorem, or

chargeable with a specific duty, either by number, weight, or
measure, the appraisers shall ascertain and certify to what rate
or percentage the merchandise is damaged, and the rate of
percentage of damage, so ascertained and certified, shall be

deducted from the original amount, subject to a duty ad

HOLLENDER v. MAGONE.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

valorem, or from the actual or original number, weight or
measure, on which specific duties would have been computed."
But this application was refused on the ground that such an
allowance was prohibited by a proviso in Schedule Hl, act of
March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 505, c. 121, which says "there shall be
no allowance for breakage, leakage, or damage on wines, liquors,
cordials, or distilled spirits." Thereafter this suit was brought,
and on the trial thereof the court instructed the jury to find
for the defendant. 38 Fed. Rep. 912. Judgment having been
entered on such verdict, plaintiffs sued out a writ of error from
this court.
A r Edwzn B. Smith for plaintiffs in error.
.Ab Asszstant Attorney GeneraZ 3Yaury for defendant in
error.
There is no evidence that the price of 17f& cents per gallon,
paid for the beer in Germany, was a "sound price." Because
the statute authorizes the invoice to be taken at the customhouse as evidence of dutiable value does it follow that itamay
be used as evidence by the plaintiff in a personal action against
the collector 2 The invoice here is not invoked to prove market
value generally, (" Clicquot's Champagne," 3 Wall. 141, 148,)
but to prove that the particular merchandise here in question
was in good condition when shipped at the place of export.
The invoice as well as the bill of lading, is, as to the collector,
sued here for an abuse of official power, res snter alios acta.
"Liquors" is not a term of trade and commerce and cannot
be filched from the general vocabulary by any presumption
that it was used in a commercial sense. The attempt here is
the same m character as was made in Miaillard v 1awrence,
16 Hlow 251, and in Arnold v United States, 14:7 U S. 494.
The effect of the provision of the act of March 3, 1883,
denying the right to damage allowance on liquors under
section 2927 of the Revised Statutes is to restrict the operation
of a law in derogatwn of the revenue, and, therefore, the provision should be liberally interpreted. There is no natural

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

equity on the side of the importer to be exempt from paying
duty on the invoice value of merchandise damaged on the
voyage. He takes such risks and has no right to exemptions
unless clearly given by the law The labored attempt to
=tnvent a restrictive meaning for the repealing clause, and the
invitation to this court to go to the unheard of length of narrowing the sense of that clause by substituting the French
word "liqueurs" for the English "liquors" seem to reverse an
established canon of interpretation. It will be a long time
before this court will be found exercising its ingenuity for the
purpose of extending the operation of exemptions from taxation.
For the true meaning of "liquors" see People v Crilley,
20 Barb. 246, 248.
M . JusTic BniEWEB, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The principal question in this case is, whether beer is within
the term "liquors," as found in the proviso quoted. The
arguments in favor of such a conclusion are these First. The
word "liquors" is properly and often used in a generic sense,
as including all intoxicating beverages, and it ought, therefore,
to be construed as having that general meaning in this clause,
for if Congress had intended only a certain kind of liquor it
would have coupled some word of limitation with it. Second.
Schedule H, in which is found this proviso, and which in its
various paragraphs specifically mentions different kinds of
liquors, and among them beer, is entitled "Liquors." And
the schedule being thus, as it were, introduced by this term,
used obviously in its generic sense, it must be presumed that
wherever the word is found within the schedule, it is also used
in the same sense. Third. Unless "liquors" is given a meaning broad enough to include beer, it is superfluous, for "wines,
cordials, and distilled spirits" are ample to cover all intoxicating beverages other than malt liquors, such as ale and beer.
Granting that there is force in these arguments, we are con.
strained to hold that they are not so persuasive and convincing

HOLLEI'TDER v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

as those tending to show that the word is here used in a
narrower sense, and so as to exclude beer.
In the first place, the word "liquors" is frequently, if not
generally, used to define spirits or distilled beverages, in contradistinction to those that are fermented. Thus, in the
Century Dictionary, one of its definitions is "An intoxicating
beverage, especially a spirituous or distilled drink, as distinguished from fermented beverages, as wine and beer." See
also State v. Brittasn, 89 N. C. 574, 576, in which case the
court said. "The proof was that the defendant sold liquors,
and it must be taken that he sold spirituous liquors. Most
generally the term liquors implies spirituous liquors." The
context indicates that it is here used in this narrower sense.
The proviso names wines, liquors, cordials, and distilled spirits.
If "liquors" is here used in its generic sense, the other terms
are superfluous. That they are present emphasizes the fact
that the word is not so used.
Again In one paragraph in this section we find this combination "Cordials, liquors, arrack, absinthe, kirschwasser,
ratafia, and other similar spirituous beverages or bitters, containing spirits." Obviously the word "liquors" here means
liqueurs, that being the name of the kind of drinks of the
same general nature as those specially mentioned. This is
obvious not alone because of the rule noscitur a sociis, but by
a reference to the language found in prior tariff acts. Thus,
in that of 1842, is this language "On cordials and liqueurs of
all kinds, sixty cents per gallon, on arrack, absynthe, Kirschen
wasser, ratafia, and other similar spirituous beverages, not
otherwise specified, sixty cents per gallon." 5 Stat. 560. In
1846, we find this "Brandy and other spirits distilled from
grain or other materials; cordials, absynthe, arrack, curacoa,
kirschenwasser, liqueurs, maraschino, ratafia, and all other
spirituous beverages of a similar character." 9 Stat. 44. In
1861, this is the language. "On cordials and liquors of all
kinds, fifty cents per gallon, on arrack, absynthe, kirschenwasser, ratafia, and other similar spirituous beverages." 12
Stat. 180. In 1862, the following "On cordials, and liqueurs
of all kinds, and arrack, absynthe, kirschenwasser ratafia, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

other similar spirituous beverages, not otherwise provided for,
twenty-five cents per gallon." Id. 544. While n 1870, this
is the description "On cordials, liqueurs, arrack, absynthe,
kirschenwasser, vermuth, ratafla, and other similar spirituous
beverages, or bitters containing spirits, and not otherwise provided for, two dollars per proof gallon." 16 Stat. 263. And
this language, omitting vermuth, was carried into the Revised
Statutes. p. 464.
This retrospect of past legislation, as well as the character of
the other beverages named in combination, indicates the meaning of the word "liquors" as found in this paragraph of the
statute of 1883. It is simply a case of misspelling, and
"liqueurs" was intended. The use of the word in one part of
the body of the statute in conjunction with the term cordials
and obviously misspelled, and as obviously meant for
"liqueurs," is very persuasive that, when found in another
part of this same schedule in like conjunction with the word
"cordials," there is another case of misspelling, and "liqueurs"
is also there intended.
But, further, the whole arrangement of Schedule H points
to the fact that beer was not in the contemplation of Congress
in this proviso. The schedule is composed of eleven separate
paragraphs. The first treats of champagnes, and all other
sparkling wines, and names the duty thereon, the second provides for duties on still wines, and them alone. In that paragraph are two provisos First, "Provided, that any wines imported, containing more than twenty-four per centum of alcohol, shall be forfeited to the United States," and, second, the
proviso in question. The third names vermuth alone. The
fourth requires that " wines, brandy and other spirituous
liquors imported in bottles shall be packed in packages containing not less than one dozen bottles in each package," and
provides for an additional duty on each bottle. The fifth inposes a duty on " brandy and other spirits manufactured or
distilled from grain or other materials, and not specially enumerated or provided for in this act," and declares the standard
for determining the proof of brandy and other spirits or liquors.
The sixth on all compounds or preparations of which distilled

HOLLENDER v. IIAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

spirits are a component part of chief value, not specially enumerated, &c. The seventh is that heretofore mentioned in reference to cordials, liquors, &c. The eighth provides that no
lower rate of duty shall be collected or paid on brandy, spirits
and other spirituous beverages, than that fixed by law for the
description of first proof, but it shall be increased, &c. The
ninth imposes a duty on bay rum, or bay water, whether distilled or compounded. The tenth on ale, porter, and beer.
And the eleventh on ginger ale or ginger beer.
The facts that ginger ale and ginger beer are not intoxicating, and that bay rum and bay water would scarcely be called
beverages, show that there is little significance to be given to
the use of the word "liquors" in the title of this schedule.
The multitude of articles upon which duty was imposed by the
tariff of 1883 are grouped in that act under fourteen schedules,
each with a different title, and all that was intended by those
titles was a general suggestion as to the character of the articles within the particular schedule, and not any technically
accurate definition of them. It evidently seemed to Congress
unnecessary to create and entitle a separate schedule for the
matters named in these last three paragraphs, and they fall
more naturally under the descriptive title "liquors," than any
other used in the act. This takes away largely the force of
any argument that can be drawn from the word in the title.
Again the proviso is found in the second paragraph. The
natural limitation of a proviso is to those things that have been
previously mentioned. Before the proviso, there are named
only wines -sparkling
and still, so any word of general
description used therein would, in the absence of satisfactory
reasons to the contrary, be taken to refer to those articles, to
wit, wines. But "wines" being used in this proviso, the
subsequent terms, liquors, cordials and distilled spirits, must
mean something else. As there are several words of description, apparently beverages of different character were intended
by each. If, for instance, in any clause we should find the
two terms "wines" and "distilled spirits," we should believe
that some different article was intended by each term. So, if
we should find the phrase "wines and liquors," or "wines or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

liquors," is it not a proper inference that some other kind of
beverage than wine was intended by the word "liquors" 9
Obviously, as it seems to us, the word is used here in a special,
rather than a general sense, and when so used in a special
sense, it is almost invariably used to define spirituous rather
than malt liquors. Seldom is it used alone to define malt
liquors, as contradistinguished from those that are spirituous
and distilled.
In short, We think it may be laid down as a general proposition, that where the term "liquors" is used in a special
sense, spirituous and distilled beverages are intended, in contradistinction to fermented ones, that the use of the four
words in this proviso, in the order in which they are arranged
and in the place in which the proviso is found in the schedule,
indicates that " liquors" is used in a special rather than in a
general sense, and the conjunction of the words "liquors"
and "cordials," as found in another paragraph, and as interpreted by the past history of that particular part of the tariff
legislation, shows that "liqueurs" was intended by "liquors"
in this clause.
But it is further objected by counsel for the government
that there was no proof that the beer was sound when purchased. Generally speaking, it may be said that a sound price
implies a sound article. The bill of exceptions shows that
"it further appeared from the invoices and the testimony of
the liquidating clerk that the cost of this beer in Germany,
the place of export, was equivalent to 17Nou cents per gallon
in the money of account of the United States." How the
invoices read, and what was the testimony given by the
liquidating clerk, is not shown, the result only is stated when
it said that it appeared that the cost of this beer was
cents per gallon. As most of the beer on its arrival in New
York was thrown into the street as worthless, and only a
little of it sold, and that at three cents per gallon, it may be
assumed that that was a sound article for which the much
greater price was paid at the place of export. Evidently the
testimony in all these respects was considered sufficient, for
the Circuit Judge, as appears from the report in the Federal

