LEGGETT v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY.
Syllabus.
by him. He is not at liberty, any more than a private agent,
to act upon mere guesses and surmises, without information or
knowledge on the subject." This ruling of the court falls far
short of holding that the transcript of accounts is conclusive
upon the officer.
Our conclusion is that the order of the Postmaster General
and the certified accounts produced by the government in the
present case were only przma fact evidence of the balance
claimed against the defendants in error, and that there was no
error in the court below in so holding, and the judgment is
4ff rmed.
accordingly

UNITED STATES v. DuxAs. No. 231. Error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana. Submitted
April 20, 1893. Decided May 1, 1893. MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
Tins case, in all essential respects, is similar to that of United States
v. Dumas, No. 230, just decided, the only difference being that this
suit is based upon a bond for a different period, and against a different set of sureties, but it involves the same questions and on the
same state of facts as presented in the former case. For the reasons
given in the opinion in the former case the judgment below in tins
Affirmed.
case is

LEGGETT v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UIITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 225. Argued April 20, 21,1893. -Decided

May 10, 1893.

The second claim in reissued letters patent No. 5785, granted March 10, 1874,
to Edward W Leggett for an improvement in lining oil barrels with
glue, viz.. "for a barrel, cask, etc., coated or sized by the material and
by the mode or process whereby it is absorbed into and strengthened the
wood fibre, substantially as herein described" is void as it is an expansion of the claim in the original patent so as to embrace a claim not
specified therein.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
The first claim therein, viz. "the within described process of coating or
lining the inside of barrels, casks, etc., with glue, wherein the glutinous
material, instead of being produced by reduction from a previously solid
state, is permitted to attain only a certain liquid consistency and is then
applied to the package and permitted to harden thereon for the first time,
substantially as herein set forth and described," is void. (1) because
it was a mere commercial suggestion, and not such a discovery as involved the exercise of the inventive faculties, and, (2), by reason of
such prior use as to prevent the issue of any valid patent covering it.
The invalidity of a new claim in a reissued patent does not affect the validity
of a claim in the original patent, repeated in the reissue.
The poverty or pecuniary embarrassment of a patentee is not sufficient excuse for postponing the assertion of his rights, or preventing the application of the doctrine of laches.

THiE case is stated inthe opinion.

Mr -Edmund T-etnwoe, (with whom was Mr Samuel C.
Reed on the brief,) for appellant.
-Mr Cliwrles C. Beaman, (with whom was Xr Joseph HT
Choate on the brief,) for appellee.
MR. JusTicE JAoKsoN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought April 8, 1887, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York by Edward W Leggett, a citizen of New York, against
the Standard Oil Company, an Ohio corporation, for the
alleged infringement of reissued letters patent No. 5785,
granted to the complainant March 10, 1874, for an "improvement in lining oil barrels with glue."
The original patent No. 143,770 was issued October 21, 1873.
The specification and claim of this original patent are as
follows
"Be it known that I, Edward Wright Leggett, of the city,
county, and State of New York, have invented an improved
process of coating or lining the inside of barrels, casks, etc.,
for the purpose of rendering the same impervious to water,
oil, or any contained substance, of which the following is a
specification.

LEGGETT v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

"This invention relates to that class of processes employed
for the coating or lining of the insides of barrels for the abovementioned purpose, and consists in preparing from any suitable
glutinous substance glue, said glue being permitted to attain
but a certain consistency and then applied directly as a coating or lining.
"In carrying out my invention I proceed as follows Take
any of the materials from which glue may be made and proceed in the usual or any suitabl6 manner for the manufacture
of glue until the soup has attained a certain consistency
"This consistency must be considerably less than that which
is required wherein semi-fluid, solid, or cake glue is to be produced, and while it is in this half-finished state, so to speak, it
is applied directly to the inside of the barrel, or cask, where,
after due evaporation, it will be found that said cask or barrel
is lined thoroughly and completely with glue, inasmuch as a
pressure of steam generated by the heat applied is sufficient
to force the thin glutinous fluid well into the pores and recesses
of the wood, thus insuring a perfect lining.
"I am aware that barrels, etc., have been lined or coated
with glue when said glue has been subjected to a process of
reduction by dilution from its original consistency to a sufficiently liquid state, but I am not aware of any process wherein
the glutinous material has been permitted to attain only its
proper consistency and then applied directly, thus saving the
time, labor, and expense heretofore employed by continuing
the manufacture of the glutinous soup until it has attained a
semi-fluid or gelatinous consistency, thus necessitating a reduction by dilution and reheating before it is fit for application,
as set forth in this specification, travelling over, as it were, the
same ground, backward and forward, two or three times,
whereas by my process this trouble is entirely dispensed with
by operating as within described.
"This invention has nothing to do with the glue-lined barrel
as an article of manufacture, but relates particularly to a new
and inexpensive process of constructing a glue-lined barrel,
cask, etc.
"Heretofore the glue has been taken in its complete state
VOL. CXLIX-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

as an article of manufacture, has been reheated, diluted, and
then applied, but such a process necessarily carries with it all
the expense of preparing the glue at first as an article of trade
or commerce.
"1Myprocess contemplates taking the glue when at a proper
consistency and applying it to the inside of the package, permitting it to harden for the first time upon that surface.
"I claim as my invention
"The within-described process of coating or lining the
inside of barrels, casks, etc., with glue, wherein the glutinous
material, instead of being produced by reduction from a previously solid state, is permitted to attain only a certain liquid
consistency and is then applied to the package and permitted
to harden thereon for the first time, substantially as herein
set forth and described."
An application for the reissue of this patent was filed February 2, 1874, and contained substantially the same specification. It repeated the claim of the original patent, and in
addition thereto made a second claim for "a barrel, cask, etc.,
coated or sized by the material and by the mode or process
substantially as herein described." On February 6, 1874, the
examiner rejected the second claim thus made for the reason
"that a barrel coated by the process described has no features
or characters to distinguish it from a barrel coated with glue
as prepared in the ordinary way" Thereafter the patentee
amended the specification on which the reissue was applied
for by inserting the following
"The distinguishing feature of this improvement may be
found on examination to be the superior integrity of the
lining by the use of soup glue, by its peculiar character it is
more freely absorbed by the wood penetrating into fibre
deeper than by the ordinary mode. Hence the sizing or coating is not only upon the surface, but penetrates into the wood,
thereby presenting a thicker covering to the action of the oil,
and this sizing is not liable to be broken off or cracked in
handling the cask, as part of the coating is absorbed into the
fibre and cells of the wood, which gives additional strength to
it."

LEGGETT v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

The reissue was thereupon allowed March 10, 1874, with a
second claim for "a barrel, cask, etc., coated or sized by the
material and by the mode or process, whereby it is absorbed
into and strengthened by the wood fibre substantially as
herein described."
In both the original and reissued patents the specifications
disclaim any idea or invention in a glue-lined barrel as such.
The first claim of the reissue, like the first claim of the original, is limited to a process, and the specification of the original declares that the invention "relates particularly to a new
and inexpensive process of constructing a glue-lined barrel,
cask," etc. The reissued specification broadens this description by adding at this point the following words: "1better
adapted to the purpose designed by coating and sizing, as set
forth, than by the ordinary means," and by the additional
paragraph in the specification of the reissue, above recited.
.Among the defences set up in the answer were (1) noninfringement, (2) want of patentable novelty in the invention,
(3) anticipation thereof by various other specified American
patents, and (4) prior use of the patented process by a large
number of persons in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and
Massachusetts, whose names are given.
After replication filed and- after some of the proofs had
been taken by the respondent on the question of prior use of
the patented invention by other persons, the complainant, by
leave of court, filed an amended bill setting up, in addition to
the averments of the original bill, the claim that, prior to the
issue of his original patent, he had disclosed his secret or process to the defendant company .on its promise that no use
would be made of the process, or any part of it, without his
consent, but that the defendant, disregarding this promise,
did use said process without his permission, and thereby violated its said agreement with him, by reason whereof the
defendant in equity should be estopped from denying or in
any way questioning the validity of the complainant's invention and the letters patent issued therefor.
The defendant filed a supplemental answer denying the new
averments of the amended bill, and interposed the defences of

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

the statute of limitations and of laches, so far as the amended
bill sought or attempted to hold it liable in any way on the
alleged promise not to use complainant's secret or process.
Replication having been filed and voluminous proofs taken on
the questions presented by the pleadings, the court on the
hearing upon the merits entered a decree dismissing the complainant's bill with costs. From that decree the present
appeal is prosecuted. The opinion of the court below is
reported in 38 Fed. Rep. 842, and the ground upon which the
decision proceeded was that there was a lack of patentable
invention in the thing patented.
We are of opinion that there is no error in the judgment of
the court below for various reasons. In the first place, the
second claim of the reissue, secured, as it was, by important
changes in the specification of the original patent, was a
manifest enlargement or broadening of the patent. It is not
pretended that there was any mistake, accident, or inadvertence in either the specification or the claim of the original
patent such as would render it void or inoperative, and warrant
the granting of a reissue thereof with an additional and enlarged claim. After the complainant had secured his patent
for the process, which was all he could claim under the original
specification, he ascertained that he was still not protected
against the use by the defendant of barrels, casks, etc., coated
or lined by the process covered by his patent, and it was then
that he conceived the idea of a reissue which should be broad
enough to include not only the claim set forth in the original,
but also a claim for a barrel, cask, etc., coated or sized with
glue, by the process described. This was in effect an expansion of the claims in order to embrace an invention not specified in the original patent, and, therefore, rendered the second
claim of the reissue invalid, under the well-settled rule of this
court, as announced in MWiller v Brass Company, 104: U. S.
350, 3ian v Harwood, 112 U. S. 354:, Wollensa v 1eiher,
115 U. S. 96, and other cases. It is shown by the complainant's own testimony that he procured the reissue for the
purpose of having it cover barrels so as to make the defendant
an infringer. Furthermore, to give the second claim of the

LEGGETT v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

reissue any validity in its application to the barrel cannot be
permitted, in view of the rejection of the second claim first
presented in the application for reissue, and which necessitated
the modification of the specification as above stated, and
which declared that the "distinguishing feature of his improvement may be found on exam aha
n, to be the superior
integrity of the lining by the use of soup glue," etc. The
second claim being allowed upon this amendment of the
specification, if it had any validity at all, cannot properly
cover the coated barrel, cask, etc., as a product, but would
have to be limited in its operation to the "glue soup," or
material used in coating or sizing barrels, and the alleged
superiority thereof in being absorbed into and strengthened
by the wood fibre in some way distinguishable from and
superior to the coating with glue in the ordinary way But
there is, however, no testimony in the .record that barrels
coated or sized by the complainant's process are, in fact,
distinguishable from barrels lined in the ordinary way, or that
barrels so "glued" are any better than those coated by the
old process. The testimony shows that barrels lined under
either the old or the new process are practically indistinguishable.
This second claim of the reissue, being a manifest attempt
to broaden the original patent, cannot, in view of the amended
specification on which it was based or procured, be held to
cover a glue-lined barrel as an article of manufacture, which
was distinctly disclaimed by the original specification.
But the invalidity of this new claim in the reissue does not
impair the validity of the original claim, which is repeated
and made the first claim of the reissued patent. Gage v
Hering,107 U. S. 640, 646. The complainant's rights, therefore, must be determined upon the validity of the claim of the
original patent, and upon the estoppel set up against the
defendant, growing out of its alleged promise not to use his
process or secret without his consent. This latter claim cannot possibly be sustained, for the reason that the promise, if
made, in no way misled or deceived the patentee to his injury
or damage. According to his own testimony he had not

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

applied, and had not thought of applying, for a patent on his
process at the time of disclosing his secret, but shortly thereafter he concluded that he had acted unwisely in imparting it
to the defendant, and at once applied for and obtained his
original patent for the very purpose of protecting himself
against the defendant's use thereof. He did not, therefore,
rely upon that alleged promise, but took proceedings by
obtaining a patent to directly guard against its violation. He
did not disclose his process to the defendant as an invention,
or as one which he proposed to patent. Under such circumstances no estoppel arises against the defendant from questioning the validity of the patent, which was not then in existence,
and which the defendant did not know was to be claimed as
an invention.
So far as the alleged promise embodies any element of a
V contract or of an undertaking to compensate the complainant
for the use of his so-called secret, the statute of limitations and
laches interposed by the defendant was clearly a bar to any
recovery on that ground, because the alleged promise, if the
proof was sufficient to establish it, was made in September,
1873, and the amended bill seeking relief thereon was not
filed until January 13, 1888 -some fourteen or fifteen years
later. This lapse of time not only constitutes a bar, such as
the statute of limitations interposes, but shows such laches as
will clearly preclude any right to relief. Mc-Lean v Flemng, 96 U S. 245, Spezdel v Henna, 120 U S. 377, Galliher
v Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368, 372.
No sufficient reason is given for this delay in suing. It is
sought to be excused on the ground of the plaintiff's poverty
during this period, but in the case of Hayward v Natonal
Bank, 96 U S. 611, 618, this court said that a party's poverty
or pecuniary embarrassment was not a sufficient excuse for
postponing the assertion of his rights. So that this alleged
promise of the defendant can in no way avail the complainant
in the present case, either as a ground on which to predicate
any claim for relief or as an estoppel upon the defendant from
denying the validity of the patent.
In addition to these difficulties in the way of the complain-

LEGGETT v. STAIDARD OIL COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

ant succeeding in this case, his alleged invention was clearly
anticipated by the prior use and sale of liquid glue, or size,
used for various purposes, including that of coating barrels.
The patentee's claim of novelty is based upon the theory that
prior to 1873 and 1874 oil barrels were lined with the ordinary
glue of commerce dissolved into a hot liquid glue of the
proper consistency, and that the discovery made by him, after
repeated experiments, was that the same effect could be
accomplished, with better and less expensive results, by using
the hot liquid or "glue soup " at a proper consistency in the
process of manufacture, before it had been prepared for commercial purposes by drying; and that by the use of "glue
soup" labor, expense, and the loss incident to the process of
drying the jelly glue, so as to render it marketable in that
shape, were avoided. In other words, the claim of invention
in his patent is, that previous to his discovery the process in
lining barrels with glue had been to melt the dried glue of
commerce and pour it into a barrel, close up the barrel, and
roll it around until the inside surface thereof was thoroughly
coated, and that his discovery made it cheaper for the oil
people to manufacture their own glue and use it in the same
manner, but before it had been dried.
This use of the liquid glue before drying differed in no
essential respect from the use of the liquid glue which had
been obtained by melting the dried glue of commerce, and
certainly does not rise to the dignity of invention. It would
have occurred, and did occur, as the testimony shows, to manufacturers of glue where there was occasion or necessity for
using glue in large quantities. The alleged invention was
properly held by the court below to be a commercial suggestion that would naturally occur to any one engaged largely
in the use of glue. It was well known that liquid glue had
these coating and sticking qualities before it had ever been
dried for commercial purposes, and to use it in its liquid state
certainly did not embody the quality of invention. The only
object or reason in drying the glue at all is to preserve it for
transportation and commercial purposes, it being in its liquid
or jelly condition susceptible to atmospheric influences under

OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

the operation of which it is more liable to be spoiled than
when dried. It may be true, as claimed, that the adhesive
qualities of glue before it is dried are somewhat superior to
what they are after the glue has been dried, and then
remelted for actual use. But this is merely a question of
degree, and the application of the "glue soup" before drying
cannot properly be called a discovery, such as involves the
exercise of the inventive faculties.
But aside from this, and even admitting that such a
discovery and use of liquid glue would involve invention or
patentable novelty, it is clearly established by the evidence
in the record that there had been such a prior use of the
alleged discovery as to preclude the issue of any valid patent
covering it. Whatever advantages there may be in using
liquid glue, or "glue soup" before it is dried, over a similar
use of remelted dried glue, were well known prior to the date
of the complainant's application for the patent in question.
It is shown by the testimony that in various general publications and trade journals published in Germany in the years
1869, 1870, and 1871, and circulated in this country, the
advantages of using hot or liquid glue are set out, as well as
the description of the manufacture of glue jelly by different
parties and in different localities, and from extracts produced
from these journals, which are standard authorities on chemical industries, and contain information on the subject in
question, it is shown that manufacturers in Germany were
making and selling liquid glue in its jelly form for the same
purposes and uses for which the glue in its dried form is
ordinarily used, and that it was considered better and cheaper
to use it in that condition rather than go to the expense and
labor of first drying it. In the glue industries, both in this
country and in Germany, the fact was well recognized that
the adhesive qualities of glue, before it was dried, were
superior to what they were after the glue had been dried for
commerce, and that by using it before drying there would be
a great saving of time, expense, and loss. It was shown that
in some instances the glue jelly was prepared and put away in
hermetically-sealed casks for commercial use in the future.

LEGGETT v. STANDARD OIL COMPANY.
Opimon of the Court.

In addition to these publications relating to the use of "glue
soup," it is shown that glue in that state or condition had
been used in the extensive glue factory of Peter Cooper &
Company, at Williamsburg, (now a part of Brooklyn,) New
York, as early as 1859 or 1860. It is proven that in the
Cooper factory barrels used for the purpose of shipping neat's
foot oil were lined or coated with hot liquid glue, that had
never been dried, substantially in the same manner, and by
the identical process described in complainant's patent. In
fact, the process on which he claims a patent was well known

at that factory long prior to the date of his alleged invention,
and no one seems to have had any idea that it was either new,
or could be considered such a secret or discovery as involved
invention, or was entitled to protection.
It is furthermore shown by the testimony that precisely this
same process of lining oil barrels with hot "glue soup," was
used in the oil regions of Pennsylvania and Ohio as early as
1861.
It is not deemed necessary to go into this evidence'more in
detail. It is not successfully impeached or contradicted by
the complainant. In addition to this, the complainant concedes in his own testimony that his "glue soup" is the same
thing as "sizing," which was in use long prior to the date of
his invention by manufacturers of writing and wall paper.
It being thus clearly established that the use of liquid glue
was well known to glue manufacturers and oil refiners, and
had been actually applied in the very way and for the very
purposes described by the complainant, long before the date
of his alleged invention, it is too clear for discussion that he
could have no valid patent which would cover a process for
using liquid glue for coating or sizing purposes as a new
discovery or invention, and our conclusion, therefore, is that
the decree of the court below was clearly correct, and should
be
Afflrmwd.

