OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

the defendant's meter, the valves are adapted to the peculiar
motion of the defendant's piston and the peculiar separation
of discharging and receiving spaces, characteristic of that
meter, and not at all to any such structure as is required by
the Nash reissue.
In the Nash reissue, it is required that to get the best results
"the valve should open and close its inlet and outlet ports in
succession in such a manner as to keep the line of pressure as
nearly as possible at right angles to the direction of the motion
of the piston." And the specification explains "By the 'line
of pressure' I mean a line connecting the points of division
which separate the inlet from the outlet spaces c of the cylinder, as shown by the line z in Fig. 12, and by a 'line of
motion' I mean a line which is tangent to the path of the axis
of the piston at any point of such path as shown by the arrow
y in said figure." But such a requirement, interpreted by the
definitions given, is meaningless when applied to the defendant's meter.
In the Nash reissue, it is stated that "in the use of thc
meter, the inlet may become the outlet, and 'vwe versa."
But in the defendant's meter, the inlet must alvays be the
inlet, and by no possibility can it be made the outlet, and
while the Nash meter may be run in either direction, the defendant's meter would be inoperative if the inlet became the
outlet, and vce versa.
It is clear to us that there is no infringement, and that the
decree of the Circuit Court must be
Affrmed.

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED

NORTHERN
No. 1284.

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued April 7, 1893.-Decided April 17, 1893.

rhe act of March 16, 1878, 20 Stat. 30, c. 37, having provided that a person
charg-ed witlh the commission of crime may, at his own request, be a

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
competent witness on the trial, but that "his failure to make such request shall not create any presumption against him," all comment upon
such failure must be excluded from the jury.
person indicted in a District Court of the United States for using the
mails to give information where obscene and lewd publications could be
obtained, offered evidence, through his counsel, of his previous good
character, but did not offer himself as a witness. The district attorney
in summing up, said. "I want to say to you, gentlemen of the jury, that
if I am ever charged with a crime I will not stop by putting witnesses
on the stand to testify to my good character, but I will go upon the
stand and hold up my hand before high Heaven, and testify to my innocence of the crime." Defendant's counsel excepted to this, upon which
the court said. "Yes, I suppose the counsel should not comment upon
the defendant not taking the stand. While the United States court is
not governed by the State's statutes, I do not know that it ought to be
the subject of comments of counsel." Thereupon the assistant District
Attorney said. "I did not mean to refer to it in that light, and I do not
intend to refer in a single word to the fact that he did not testify in his
own behalf." To which counsel for defendant again excepted. Judgment being given against the defendant, andthe case being brought here
by writ of error; Held,
(1) That the exceptions and the writ of error properly brought the matter before this court;
(2) That the judgment below should be reversed.
TEE defendant below, George E. Wilson, the plaintiff in
error here, is a bookseller and publisher, carrying on his business in Chicago, Illinois. He was indicted in the 'United
States District Court for the Northern District of that State
for a violation of section two of the act of Congress of September 26, 1888, 25 Stat. 496, c. 1039, amending section 3893
of the Revised Statutes, relating to the use of the mails to
give information where and by what means obscene and lewd
publications might be obtained, and was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary of the State for
two years. To reverse that judgment he brought this case
to this court on writ of error.
The indictment charged, in different counts, that the defendant, by himself and another person, had deposited in the mail
at Chicago, for delivery to John Hobart, at O'Fallon, Illinois,
and Jack Horner, at Collinsville, Illinois, a letter and circular
giving information where certain designated lewd and obscene
books could be obtained. No attempt was made to show that

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

the letter and circular were mailed by the defendant in person,
but an attempt was made to show that some other person had
done the act at the instigation or request of the defendant,
and that he was responsible for it. The defendant did not
request to be a witness or offer himself as such, and the District
Attorney of the United States, in summing up the case to the
jury, commented upon the fact that he had not appeared on
the stand, as follows
"They say Wilson is a man of good character. It is a grand
thing for a young man in Chicago to be the son of an honest
man, because blood will tell. If the father is honest the
chances are the son will be honest too. Mlen live all their lives
to build up a good character, because it is a shield against the
attack of infamy They called two or three witnesses here
who testified to this young man's character as being good, so
far as they know, but I want to say to you, gentlemen of the
jury, that if I am ever charged with a crime, I will not stop
by putting witnesses on the stand to testify to my good character, but I will go upon the stand and hold up my hand
before high Heaven and testify to my innocence of the crime."
To this language of the District Attorney the counsel for the
defendant excepted, and called the court's attention to it, and
the court said "Yes, I suppose the counsel should not comment upon the defendant not taking the stand. While the
United States court is not governed by the State's statutes,
I do not know that it ought to be the subject of comments by
counsel." To which the District Attorney replied as follows
"I did not mean to refer to it in that light, and I do not
intend to refer in a single word to the fact that he did not
testify in his own behalf." To which the counsel for the
defendant thereupon excepted.
The act of Congress of March 16, 1878, 20 Stat. 30, c. 37,
provides "That in the trial of all indictments, informations,
complaints, and other proceedings against persons charged
with the commission of crimes, offences and misdemeanors, in
the United States courts, territorial courts, and courts-martial,
and courts of inquiry, in any State or Territory, including the
District of Columbia, the person so charged shall, at his own

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

request, but not otherwise, be a competent witness. And his
failure to make such request shall not create any presumption
against him."
The objections of the defendant's counsel to the language of
the District Attorney in his argument to the jury, in referring
to the defendant's failure to appear on the stand as a witness
and testify to his innocence of the charge against him, and to
the neglect of the court to forbid and condemn such reference,
were embodied in a bill of exceptions, and constitute one of
the grounds urged for a reversal of the judgment and the
award of a new trial.
.Mr C. Stuart Beattie, for plaintiff in error, cited Austin
v The People, 102 Illinois, 261, Baker v The People, 105
Illinois, 452, Angelo v. The People, 96 Illinois, 209, Qumn
v. The People, 123 Illinois, 333, _oyfe v Rumford, 66 Maine,
564, Thompson v State, 43 Texas, 268, State v Smith, 75
N. C. 306, Roxe v. Home Ins. Co., 33 Connecticut, 471,
Brown v Swneford, 44 Wisconsin, 282, State v Lee, 66
Missouri, 165, State v Foley, 12 Mo. App. 431, People v
.3fitchell, 62 California, 411, Ferguson v State, 49 Indiana,
33, Cross v State, 68 Alabama, 476, Flint v Commonwealth,
81 Kentucky, 186.

.Ar Asszstant Attorney General Parker for defendant in
error.
The court below committed no error in relation to the comments made by the District Attorney as to the examination of
a defendant in a criminal case, and such comments do not
require this court to grant a new trial.
The statute provides that in the trial of indictments in the
United States courts, "the person so charged shall, at his own
request, but not otherwise, be a competent witness. And his
failure to make such request shall not create any presumption
against him."
Two things appear- (1) If the defendant does not request
to be made a witness he is not competent. In this case he did

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

not become competent. In such a case he remains as though
the statute had never been enacted, and any comment of an
attorney would have the same force as though made in a case
before any legislation anywhere had given the person charged
the privilege of testifying in his own behalf. (2) "His failure
to make such request shall not create any presumption against
him."
The general subject of the legislation permitting persons
accused in criminal proceedings to testify in their own behalf
is elaborately presented in the fifteenth edition of Greenleaf's
Evidence (Vol. 1, pp. 467, 468, and Vol. 3, pp. 54 to 67).
It is there shown that in many States the enabling statutes
provide that the circumstance of the failure of the person
charged to request to be sworn shall not be commented upon
by the prosecuting attorney
This is the case in Illinois,
(3 Greenl. 56,) Indiana and Iowa, (Id. p. 57,) Kansas, (p. 58,)
Nebraska, (p. 62,) New Hampshire and Ohio, (p. 63,) Pennsylvania (p. 65) and Virginia (p. 66).
In Massachusetts the
statute is substantially the same as that of the United
States.
It is said (Id. p. 66) that even where the person charged
is allowed to testify in his own behalf he is still carefully
protected, and it is added "And while his counsel may comment to the jury upon the fact that no inference may be
drawn against him for not testifying, the prosecuting attorney
may not, in rebuttal of these comments, suggest that the
reason of his not testifying was his guilt, or comment in
any way upon his nonappearance, but if he does, the defendant's counsel must seasonably object and ask the judge to
instruct the jury to disregard the comment. He cannot
require the judge to take the case from the jury"
The
cases of Commonwealth v Scott, 123 Mass. 240, and Commonwealth v W7orcester, 141 Mass. 58, are referred to in this
connection.
The cases cited in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error
relate to statutes differing essentially from the national enactment, and no case is found which would require a new trial in
the case at bar.

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The counsel for defendant below did not ask the court to
give any directions or instructions to the jury in this connection, or to inform them that the omission of the defendant
They
should not "create any presumption against him."
"notified the court" of the exception, and the court said
"Yes, I suppose the counsel should not comment upon the
I do not know that
defendant not taking the stand.
it ought to be the subject of comments of counsel."
There is no ground given for any inference that the failure
of Wilson to the request to be made a witness in the case did
create "any presumption against him." The remarks made
by the District Attorney, which are complained of, are not of
sufficient consequence to reqmre this court to grant a new
trial.
Mml..JUsTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the

of the court.
opinion
/
The act of Congress permitting the defendant-in a criminal
action to appear as a witness in his own behalf upon his
request declares, as it will be seen, that his failure to request
to be a witness in the case shall not create anypresumption
against hm.
To prevent such presumption being created, comment,
especially hostile comment, upon such failure must necessarily
be excluded from the jury The minds of the jurors can only
remain unaffected from this circumstance by excluding all
reference to it.
At common law no one accused of crime could be compelled
to give evidence in a prosecution against himself, nor was he
permitted to testify in his own behalf. The accused might
rely upon the presumption of the law that he was innocent of
the charge, and leave the government to establish his guilt in
the best way it could.
This rule, while affording great protection to the accused
against unfounded accusation, in many cases deprived him
from explaining circumstances tending to create conclusions
of his guilt which he could readily have removed if permitted
VOL. CXLx-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to testify To relieve him from this embarrassment the law was
passed. In mercy to him, he is by the act in question permitted upon his request to testify in his own behalf in the
case. In a vast number of instances the innocence of the
defendant of the charge with which he was confronted has
been established.
But the act was framed with a due regard also to those
who might prefer to rely upon the presumption of innocence
which the law gives to every one, and not wish to be witnesses. It is not every one who can safely venture on the witness stand though entirely innocent of the charge against him.
Excessive timidity, nervousness when facing others and
attempting to explain transactions of a suspicious character,
and offences charged against him, will often confuse and
embarrass him to such a degree as to increase rather than
remove prejudices against him. It is not every one, however
honest, who would, therefore, willingly be placed on the witness stand. The statute, in tenderness to the weakness of
those who from the causes mentioned might refuse to ask to
be a witness, particularly when they may have been in some
degree compromised by their association with others, declares
that the failure of the defendant in a criminal action to
request to be a witness shall not create any presumption
against him.
In this case this provision of the statute was plainly disregarded. When the District Attorney, referring to the fact
that the defendant did not ask to be a witness, said to the jury,
"I want to say to you, that if I am ever charged with crime, I
will not stop by putting witnesses on the stand to testify to
my good character, but I will go upon the stand and hold up
my hand before high Heaven and testify to my innocence of
the crime," he intimated to them as plainly as if he had said
in so many words that it was a circumstance against the innocence of the defendant that he did not go on the stand and
testify Nothing could have been more effective with the
jury to induce them to disregard entirely the presumption of
innocence to which by the law he was entitled, and which by
the statute he could not lose by a failure to offer himself as a

WILSON1

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

witness. And when counsel for defendant called the attention
of the court to this language of the District Attorney it was
not met by any direct prohibition or emphatic condemnation
of the court, which only said "I suppose the counsel should
not comment upon the defendant not taking the stand." It
should have said that the counsel is forbidden by the statute
to make any comment which would create or tend to create a
presumption against the defendant from his failure to testify
Instead of stating, after mentioning that the United States
court is not governed by the State's statutes, "I do not know
that it ought to be the subject of comment by counsel," the
court should have said that any such comment would tend
necessarily to defeat the very prohibition of the statute. And
the reply of the District Attorney to the mild observation of
the court only intensified the fact to which he had already
called the attention of the jury "I did not mean to refer to
it in that light, and I do not intend to refer in a single word
to the fact that he did not testify in his own behalf," which
was equivalent to saying, "You gentlemen of the jury know
full well that an innocent man -would have gone on the stand
and have testified to his innocence, but I do not mean to refer
to the fact that he did not, for it is a circumstance which you
will take into consideration without it." By this action of the
court in refusing to condemn the language of the District
Attorney, and to express to the jury in emphatic terms that
they should not attach to the failure any importance whatever
as a presumption against the defendant, the impression was
left on the minds of the jury that if he were an innocent man
he would have gone on the stand as the District Attorney
stated he himself would have done.
This language of the District Attorney, and this action, or
rather want of action, of the court, are set forth in the bill of
exceptions, and although exceptions are generally taken to
some ruling, or want of ruling, by the court in the progress
of the trial in the admission or rejection of evidence or the
interpretation of instruments, yet they can be taken to its
action or want of proper action upon any proceeding in the
progress of thp trial from its commencement to its conclusion,

OCTOBER TER-M, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and when properly presented can be considered by the court
on writ of error.
The refusal of the court to condemn the reference of the
District Attorney and to prohibit any subsequent reference to
the failure of the defendant to appear as a witness tended to
his prejudice before the jury, and this effect should be corrected by setting the verdict aside and awarding a new trial.
Similar statutes to the one we have been considering have
been passed by several States, and the rulings upon them have
been substantially in accordance with our judgment in this
case.
In 1866, the legislature of Massachusetts passed an act
almost identical in terms with the act of Congress under
consideration. It provided that "in the trial of all indictments, complaints and other proceedings against persons
charged with the commission of crimes or offences, the person
so charged shall, at his own request, but not otherwise, be
deemed a competent witness, nor shall the neglect or refusal
to testify create any presumption against the defendant."
The provision has been since reenacted in substantially the
same terms. Mass. Stats. 1866, c. 260, 1870, c. 393, ยง 1, cl. 3,
Pub. Stats. 1882, p. 987, c. 169, ยง 18, cl. 3. And in the case of
Commonwealth v Scott, 123 Mass. 239, 240, 241, where the
indictment against the defendants was for breaking and entering a house in the night time with intent to commit larceny
therein, none of the defendants testified at the trial, and the
prosecuting attorney, in his closing argument, commented
upon this fact, when the counsel for the defendants interrupted him and asked the judge to rule that the fact that the
defendants did not testify could not be commented on by the
government. But the judge, having first stated the law that
the fact that they did not testify did not create any presumption against them, ruled that, inasmuch as the matter had been
referred to by their counsel, the prosecuting attorney had a
right to comment on the reasons given for their not going
upon the stand and testifying in their behalf, and also to give
the reasons which the government contended really existed for
their not testifying, and permitted the prosecuting attorney

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to proceed in his comments.

The jury having rendered a

verdict of guilty, the defendants alleged exceptions, and the
case went to the Supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth. The Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of the
court, after referring to the fact that the government had
no right to interrogate a person accused of crime, or to compel
him to testify, but was bound to sustain its charge by independent evidence, observed that "the statutes allowing persons
charged with the commission of crimes or offences to testify
in their own behalf were passed for their benefit and protection, and clearly recognize their constitutional privilege, by
providing that their neglect or refusal to testify shall not
create any presumption against them."
And again "The course of the closing argument for the
prosecution tended to persuade the jury that the omission of
the defendants to testify implied an admission or a consciousness of the crime charged, and the presiding judge in permitting such a course of argument, against the objection of
the defendants, and in ruling that the prosecuting attorney
had a right to comment on the reasons which the defendants'
counsel gave for their not going upon the stand and testifying
in their behalf, and also to give the reasons which the government contended really existed for their not testifying, committed an error which was manifestly prejudicial to the defendants, and which obliges this court to set aside the verdict
and order a new trial."
The criminal code of Illinois, after providing that in criminal cases the accused may, on his own motion, testify in the
case, declares, in a proviso, that "ins neglect to testify shall
not create any presumption against him, nor shall the court
permit any reference or comment to be made to or upon such
neglect."
In the case of Austin v The People, 102 Illinois, 261, 264,
a reference had been made to the neglect of the accused to
testify, both in the opening and concluding argument for the
prosecution, and the court, in setting aside the verdict of guilty
which was rendered in that case, said "When the statute
says that no _resumption against the accused shall be created

