CINCINNATI, HAMILTON, IAILROAD v. McKEEN. 259
Names of Counsel.

-Decree reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court
forfurther proceedings in accordancewith the oyrnson of
ths cowrt.
MRt. JUSTICE BREWER dissented.
MR. JusTioE FIELD was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision.

CINCINNATI, HAMILTON AND DAYTON RAILROAD COMPANY v. MoKEEN.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1024. Submitted December 12, 1892.-Decided May 1, 1893.

This case coming on to be heard before the Circuit Court of Appeals, consisting of the Circuit Judge and two District Judges, one of the 3udges
was found to be disqualified to sit in it, and another was unwilling to sit,
whereupon the court certified to this court questions and propositions of
law concerning which it desired the instruction of this court, and directed
the clerk to transmit with the certificate twenty copies of the printed
record in the cause. Held,
(1) That the certificate was irregular, as a quorum of the court did not
sit in the case;
(2) That it did not comply with rule 37 of this court, inasmuch as it did
not contain a proper statement of the facts on which the questions
or propositions of law arose;
(3) That the act of March 3, 1891, does not contemplate the certification
of questions or propositions of law to be answered in view of the
entire record in a cause; although this court may order an entire
record to be brought up in order to decide, as if the case had been
brought up by writ of error or appeal.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr Eawrence .Maxwell, Jr., for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr W
MRi.

. ff. Miller and Mr JoTn il. Butler for appellee.

CHIEF JUsTIo

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a certificate from the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. It appears therefrom that
the case came on to be heard before the Circuit Judge and
two District Judges holding that court, on January 13, 1892,
the Circuit Justice not being in attendance or able at that
time to attend, that one of said judges was unwilling and
another disqualified to sit upon the final hearing and determination of the appeal, and that it appearing to the court that
the appeal involved questions of law of great importance
which should be certified to the Supreme Court of the United
States, it was thereupon ordered that certain questions and
propositions of law be, and the same were thereby, certified
to this court as questions or propositions concerning which the
Circuit Court of Appeals desired the instruction of this court
for their proper decision. After stating the questions, the certificate concluded with a direction to the clerk to transmit to
the clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States, in connection with the certificate, twenty copies of the printed
record in the cause, and it is apparent that reference to that
record is necessary in order to the correct determination of
the questions. On December 12, 1892, a motion was made in
this court that the transcript of the record sent up by the
Circuit Court of Appeals be received, and that the whole
record and the cause be retained in this court for its consideration. On December 19, this motion was denied, and it
was further ordered that "counsel be allowed to submit briefs
on the questions whether the certificate in this cause is valid,
and if so, whether it is sufficient under the act creating the
Circuit Court of Appeals to be proceeded upon by this
court." lNo suggestions have been made or briefs submitted
by counsel.
We are of opinion that a certificate of questions or propositions of law concerning which a Circuit Court of Appeals

