WALKER v. SEEBERGER.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

the conclusions there urged upon us, nothing would be gained
by a minute discussion of the several arguments advanced. If
the subject bad come before usunembarrassed by previous decisions it would have been worthy of a more thorough discussion. As it is, we are content to abide by the views that have
heretofore prevailed in this court, expressed in two unanimous
decisions.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly Afflrmed
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BROWN concurred in
the judgment for reasons stated in the dissenting opinion in
.iartranftv -Meyer, No. 860, post, 544.

WALKER v. SEEBERGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 151. Argued April 11, 12, 1893.-Decided May 15,

1893.

Trimmings of various styles and materials, some composed entirely of
silk, some chiefly of silk, some chiefly of metal, and some being a combination of both silk and metal, used exclusively or chiefly for hat or
bonnet trimming, and not suitable, nor used to any appreciable extent
for any other purpose, are dutiable under Schedule N, of the act of
March 3, 1883, (22 Stat. 512,) at the rate of twenty per centum ad valorem
and not under Schedule L at the rate of fifty per centum, as articles
composed wholly of silk or of silk as their component material of chief
value; or under Schedule C, at the rate of forty-Ave per centum, as articles composed chiefly of metal.
Whether the goods in question were trimmings used exclusively or chiefly
in the making and ornamentation of hats, bonnets or hoods was a question for the determination of the jury and it was error in the trial court
to instruct otherwise.

THE case is stated m the opinion.
Mr A. I. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
.Ar Percy1. Shuman and _Mr Henry E. Tematn also filed
a brief for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

.Vr Solicitor General for defendant in error.'
MR. ,USTICE SnIAs delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by the firm of James H. Walker
& Co., in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, to recover from the collector of that
district moneys which were alleged to have been paid in excess
of the legitimate duties assessable on certain imported articles.
The history of the case, as we find it in the bill of exceptions,
shows that the goods in question were trimmings of various
styles and materials, some being composed entirely of silk,
some chiefly of silk, and some chiefly of metal, and some being
a combination of both silk and metal. The evidence further
tended to show that all the said trimmings were used either
exclusively or chiefly for hat or bonnet trimming, and in respect to all the merchandise the use was exclusively or chiefly
for the making or ornamenting of hats, bonnets, and hoods,
and that the goods were not suitable for and were not used to
an appreciable extent for any other purpose. A considerable
portion of said goods were manufactured expressly for the
plaintiffs, and upon their order, to be used, as the same were
used, as trimmings in the making and ornamenting of hats,
bonnets and hoods. The proof tended to show that most of
the trimmings in question had more or less specific commercial
names, which aided to distinguish one from another, and that
"trimmings" was their general name, and not their specific
one.

The importers claimed that these goods should have been
assessed under Schedule N of the act of March 3, 1883, (22
Stat. 512,) at the rate of twenty per centum ad valorem.
The collector assessed the duties under Schedule L, (22 Stat.
510,) at the rate of fifty per centum for the articles composed

wholly or chiefly of silk, and under Schedule C at the rate of
forty-five per centum for the articles composed chiefly of
metal.

I'For the
539.

argument of mr. Solicitor General in this case see ante, pp. 535-.

WALKER v. SEEBERGER.
Opinion of the Court.

Thecourt below charged the jury as follows: "The collector
classed these goods as a manufacture of silk and assessed a
duty of fifty per cent ad valorem upon them. The proof tends
to show that the goods in question are composed of chenille
Now it makes no difference whether these
and silk.
goods are used only for hats and bonnets or not. If they are
specially dutiable by name or commercial description in some
other clause of the statute than clause 448, then the plaintiff
has failed in his case." And as to other articles the court
said "There are no samples of these goods produced, but the
proof tended to show that they were used for making or ornamenting hats and bonnets. They were classed as a manufacture of silk, and if they were silk, as the proof on the part of
the plaintiff tends to show, then they would be properly classed
as silk goods, and not as bonnet material."
As to various other articles in question, the court instructed
the jury that if they were composed wholly or chiefly of silk
they were dutiable at the rate of fifty per centum ad valorem,
as manufactures of silk, notwithstanding that the evidence
showed that they were used only for hats and bonnets.
Under these instructions, which were duly excepted to, the
jury found, as to most of the articles, a verdict in favor of the
collector, and, judgment having been entered accordingly
the case is before us on a writ of error.
No extended discussion is required. We have just decided
in the case of Cadwalader v l',namaker, ante, p. 532, in
which the facts were substantially the same with those disclosed in the present record, that goods intended for trimmings
for hats, bonnets, and hoods, and found by the jury to be
chiefly so used, were properly assessed for duty, under Schedule
N, at twenty per centum ad valorem, notwithstanding that
such goods were composed wholly or chiefly of silk. In so
ruling we considered ourselves bound by our previous decisions. Hartranf. v Langfeld, 125 U. S. 128, Robertzon v.
Edelhof, 132 U. S. 614.
Under the law as there laid down, the case ought to have
been submitted to the jury to find whether the goods in
question were trimmings used wholly or chiefly in the making

