OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

and justice and the laws of the United States direct, in accordance with the opinion of the said Supreme Court." And judgment was then given, as before stated, against Gordon, Humes,
and Harris.
We are of opinion that this application must be denied.
The argument for petitioners is that the Circuit Court was
proceeding wholly in execution of our mandate, that in doing
so the judgment rendered went beyond its requirements, and
that, therefore, petitioners are entitled to the remedy by
mandamus to correct action in excess of the jurisdiction of
the court below In re Washngton & Georgetown Railroad,
140 U. S.91, Ganes v Rugg, 148 U. S.228. But, without
considering or determining any other question, it is sufficient
to observe that these petitioners were not parties to the original
judgment, or to the writ of error, and were not so concerned
in the execution of the mandate as to be entitled to ask for a
review of the action of the Circuit Court m that regard by
mandamus. The judgment against them was rendered in the
exercise of judicial determination, and not in the discharge of
a numsterial duty, and their remedy, if they deem themselves
aggrieved, lies in a writ of error. Ex parte F1vipvm, 94 U. S.
348.
WVit densed.

MEXICAN

CENTRAL RAILWAY
PINKNEY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COMPANY

v.

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 119. Submitted April 17, 1893. - Decided May 1, 1893.

To give a Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction on the ground of
diverse citizenship, the facts showing the requisite diverse citizenship
must appear in such papers as properly constitute the record of the
case.
The refusal by the trial court, during the progress of the trial, of leave to
Ale a plea on the question of the plaintiff's citizenship and to permit issue

EXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

195

Opinion of the Court.
to be joined thereon is within the discretion of that court auri5'j otreviEwable bere.
A person m charge of a joint railroad warehouse in a railroad centre in
Texas, the property of one of several companies which unite in bearing
the expense of maintaining it and in selecting its employ6s and in controlling its expenses, who makes no contracts and handles no moneys on
behalf of another railroad centering there, but not participating in the
selection of the employ~s and in controlling expenses, and who is not on
the pay-roll of the latter company, is not its "local agent" upon whom
process may be served under the provisions of the statutes of that State
(Sayles :Revised Civ. Stats. Art. 1223a).
The provisions of the Texas statutes which give to a special appearance,
made to challenge the court's jurisdiction, the force and effect of a general appearance, so as to confer jurisdiction over the person of the defendant, are not binding upon Federal courts sitting in that State, under the
rule of procedure prescribed by the fifth section of the act of June 1,
1872, as reproduced in Rev. Stat. § 914.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Af A. . BTitton, Mr A. B. Browne and Xr
Stac7kpole for plaintiff in error.

-T Lewzs

. F Phillvs and M r Frederto D. .MoKenney for de.MPl
fendant in error.
MR. JusTIci,

Jionsox delivered the opimon of the court.

This writ of error brings up for our consideration the general question whether the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Western Dictrict of Texas acquired or rightfully exercised jurisdiction m the present case. Tis jurisdictional question arises as follows The defendant in error, Alexander
Pinkney, brought an action in that court against the plaintiff
in error, the Mexican Central Railway Company, Limited, to
recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have been
sustained while in the performance of his duties as a brakeman in the employ of the company
In his original petition the plaintiff alleged that he was a
resident, citizen, and inhabitant of the county of El -Paso, in
the Western District of Texas, that the defendant was a citi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

zen of Massachusetts, being a corporation organized under the
laws of that State, and having its principal office and place of
business in Boston, and that it was owning, operating, and
maintaining, or operating and maintaining, a line of railroad
running from El Paso, in Texas, southwardly through the
Republic of Mexico to the city of Mexico, and had an office
in El Paso, and a local agent there named Harry Lawton.
Upon the filing of this petition a citation or summons was
issued, and was served upon Lawton by the marshal of the
district, who made return thereon as follows "Executed on
the 23d day of September, 1891, by delivering to H. Lawton,
local agent of the Mexican Central Railway Company, at El
Paso, Texas, in person, a true copy of this writ."
On the 30th of September, 1891, the defendant entered a
special appearance for the purpose of excepting to the service
of the citation, and filed a plea in abatement thereto, as
follows
"INow comes the defendant in the above-styled and numbered cause and, appearing only for the purpose of excepting
to the service of the citation herein, and not appearing generally or for any other purpose, says
"1st. That Harry Lawton, upon whom the citation herein
was served as the local agent of this defendant, is not the
president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, general manager or any officer of this defendant, and, neither said Lawton
nor any 'joint agent,' or agent at 'the joint warehouse' in
the city of El Paso, Texas, has ever been designated by this
defendant as its officer or agent upon whom citation might be
served in this State and county, and is not authorized by this
defendant to receive or accept citation on its behalf.
"2d. That before the establishment of what is known as
the Ijoint warehouse,' in the city of El Paso, Texas, over
which said Lawton has control and management, importers of
goods, their brokers and agents, were put to great trouble and
inconvenience on account of the lack of the proper and necessary facilities for handling, examining, weighing and classifying goods billed to and from points in the Republic of Mexico upon their arrival at said city of El Paso over the various

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

197(

Opinion of the Court.

roads hereinafter mentioned, and on account of said deficienoies owners of goods destined to points in the Republic of
Mexico were frequently subjected to fines and penalties under
the custom laws of Mexico on account of inaccuracies in the
importation papers required therefor by said Mexican government, that in the interest and convenience of importers of
American as well as of Mexican goods and merchandise, and
in order thereby to increase the traffic of this defendant, and
the other railroads hereinafter mentioned, there was established and since maintained said 'joint warehouse,' where
goods, wares, and merchandise destined to points m said republic upon their arrival at saad El Paso are transferred, deposited and held by the agent in charge thereof for examination, weighing and classification as aforesaid, prior to their
entry into said republic, and where the import duties on
goods coming from said republic over defendant's line may be
conveniently paid and such goods transferred and turned over
to the proper roads by the agent in charge of said 'joint
warehouse.'
" 3d. That at the solicitation of the railroads then jointly
interested therein said warehouse was constructed and established in or about the year A. D. 1887, by the Atchi~on,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company, on property owned
by it then and since, until the same was duly passed by transfer to the Rio Grande and El Paso Railroad Company, which
now and ever since said transfer has owned said warehouse
and the property upon wnch the same is located.
"4th. That this defendant pays one-half of all the expense
incurred in the maintenance and operation of said 'joint
warehouse,' while said Rio Grande and El Paso Railroad
Company, the Texas and Pacific Railroad Company, the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railroad Company, and
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company bear the balance
thereof upon a tonnage basis.
"5th. That said Lawton and all ' joint agents' are selected
by said Rio Grande and El Paso Railroad Company, and, witfr
the approval of the other companies last aforesaid and tins
defendant, are appointed by said R. G. & E. P R. R. Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opunon of the Court.

upon whose pay-rolls the names of such 'joint agents' and
the members of their force appear as employes of said lastmentioned company, which pays the salaries and wages thereof.
"6th. That said Lawton, as 'joint agent,' and his force are
under bond to said Rio Grande and El Paso Railroad Company, Texas and Pacific Railroad Company, Galveston,
Harrisburg and San Antomo Railroad Company, and
Southern Pacific Railroad Company, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties required of them by said
last-mentioned compames, to which reports are made, and of
and for which money is collected and received by said
Lawton.
"TIth. That said Ilawton, being unauthorized so to do,
makes no contracts, and collects and handles no money for or
on behalf of this defendant, is under no bond to it, keeps no
accounts of or for it, is not on its pay-rolls, was not selected
or appointed by it, and this defendant is without power to
discharge him, all of which defendant is ready to verify
Wherefore defendant says that said Lawton is not its local
agent or other employe or agent, that the service of the citation herein is insufficient, and prays that the return thereon
be quashed."
On the 6th of April, 1892, by leave of the court, the plaintiff filed an amended petition setting out with considerable
detail the facts upon which he based his claim that Lawton
was an agent of the defendant upon whom service could be
made, (which facts were not materially different from those
set out m the plea and motion to quash the return to the citation,) and making substantially the same allegations as respects the personal injuries sustained by hn as were contained
in the original petition.
The plaintiff afterwards demurred to the plea in abatement
and motion to quash the return to the citation, and the
demurrer having been sustained and the service held to have
been good, the defendant excepted. Thereafter the defendant filed an answer setting up (1) a general demurrer, (2)
a general denial, and (3) a plea of contributory negligence,
and the cause thereupon went to trial before the court and

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

199

Opinion of the Court.

a jury, resulting In a verdict and judgment m favor of the
plaintiff for the sum of $3000.
On the trial of the case evidence was brought out on crossexamination of the plaintiff, who testified in his own behalf,
winch counsel for the defendant claimed tended to show that
the plaintiff was not a citizen of the district in which the
action was brought, and they thereupon moved the court to
permit defendant to file a plea to the effect that plaintiff was
not a resident or citizen of the State of Texas when the action
-as brought, and had never been a resident of that State, but
was a deserter from the army of the United States and was
a resident and citizen of Arizona Territory, where he had
enlisted and where his troop was stationed, so as to raise and
present an issue as to the jurisdiction of the court on the
ground of citizenship of the plaintiff. But the court ruled
that no amendment to the pleadings would be permitted, and
that the issue could not then be raised, but that defendant
might ask plaintiff as to Ins residence and citizenship. To
winch ruling the defendant excepted.
The assignments of error are as follows
"First. The court erred in assuming jurisdiction over this
cause, for the reason that the record herein fails to show the
residence and citizenship of the parties to this suit at the time
of the institution of the same.
"Second. The court erred in sustaining plaintiff's demurrer
to defendant's exception to the service of the citation and
motion to quash the return thereof, and in holding that the
service on one Harry Lawton, as defendant's agent, was
good- 1st, for the reason that plaintiff's demurrer was insufficient in law, 2nd, for the reason that the return of said
citation was defective and insufficient, and, 3rd, for the reason
that defendant's said exception and motion showed that said
Lawton was not the local agent of defendant.
"Third. The court erred in refusing to permit issue to be
joined and tried as to its jurisdiction, and in refusing to permit defendant to file its plea to the effect that plaintiff was
not a resident and citizen of the State of Texas, as in his complaint averred, at the time his suit was filed, for the reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

V

that it was the right of the defendant to show, and it was the
duty of the court to hear, at any stage of the trial, that
plaintiff had wrongfully misstated Ins residence and citizenship in the attempt to fraudulently confer jurisdiction upon
the court, which had in fact no jurisdiction, plaintiff being a
resident and citizen of the Territory of Arizona and the defendant, as shown by the record herein, being a corporation
created and existing under the laws of the State of Massachusetts, and therefore a resident and citizen of that State."
With respect to the first assignment of error, the point -s
made that the averment of citizenship of the plaintiff was
not sufficiently set out in the amended petition, it being
snply alleged therein that the "plaintiff is a resident, citizen,
and inhabitant of El Paso County, Texas," which averment
referred to the date of the filing of that petition, and not to
the date of the commencement of the action. But the original petition, which was the first pleading filed in the case,
made the proper averments, as respects the citizenship of the
parties, to bring the case within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, and in our opinion that was sufficient. The rule is
that, to give the Circuit Courts of the United States jurisdiction on the ground of the diverse citizenship of the parties,
the facts showing the requisite diverse citizenship must appear
in such papers as properly constitute the record of the case.
The original petition is properly a part of the record, and,
as that made the proper averments as to the citizenship of the
parties, the point raised by the first assignment of error is not
well taken.
The third assignment of error relates to matters purely
within the discretion of the trial court, and is, therefore, of
no avail. The proposition is not controverted that if it
appears in the course of the trial that the controversy is
not one of which the court could take cognizance, by reason
of the citizenship of the parties to it, the Circuit Court has
the right, and it is its duty, to dismiss the cause for the want
of jurisdiction. But that is not this case. The question presented by this assignment of error is, that the court erred in
refusing leave to file a plea, during the progress of the trial,

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

201

Opinion of the Court.

on the question of the plaintiff's citizenship, and m refusing to
permit issue to be joined thereon. It is well settled that mere
matters of procedure, such as the granting or refusing of motions for new trials, and questions respecting amendments to
the pleadings, are purely discretionary matters for the consideration of the trial court, and, unless there has been gross.
abuse of that discretion, they are not reviewable in tins court
on writ of error. And even if such questions were reviewable
here generally, on writ of error, they are not reviewable in
this proceeding, because they do not go to the question of
jurisdiction in the court below, which is the only question we
can consider upon the present writ of error.
This brings us to the consideration of the questions presented by the second assignment of error, wnch are (1) as to
whether, upon the record, as made by the plea in abatement
and motion to quash the return to the citation, and the demurrer thereto, Lawton was a local agent of the defendant
upon whom service could be made, within the general meaning of that term, and under the statutes of Texas relating to
the method of obtaining service upon foreign corporations
doing business in that State, and (2) as to whether, even if
the service was bad, the special appearance of the defendant
for the sole purpose of excepting to it, and, after its plea and
motion were overruled, its filing a general answer, can be
deemed in any sense a general appearance within the meaning
of the statutes of Texas relating to such matters of practice,
such as operated to confer jurisdiction on the Circuit Court of
the United States.
The statute of Texas relating to service of process on foreign
corporations is as follows
"In any suit against a foreign, private, or public corporation, joint stock company or association, or acting corporation
or association, citation or other process may be served on the
president, vice-president, secretary, or treasurer, or general
manager, or upon any local agent within this State, of such
corporation, joint stock company, or association, or acting corporation or association." 1 Sayles' Rev Civ. Stat. Texas, 417,
Art. 1223a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the allegations of the plea in abatement or motion to
quash the return to the citation, and admitted by the demurrer,
was Lawton a" local agent" of the defendant company, within
the meaning of this statute 2 We think not. The joint warehouse in which Lawton was employed, and the ground on
which it is located, was the property of the Rio Grande and
El Paso Railroad Company The whole force of employes
and agents in that warehouse were selected by that railroad
company, with the approval of certain other named companies,
not including the defendant, they were on the pay-rolls of
that company, and were bonded to it and the other companies, and Lawton made his reports of the moneys collected
and received by him to those companies. The seventh paragraph of the plea in abatement makes this terse and comprehensive statement "Lawton, being unauthorized so to do,
nakes no contracts and collects and handles no money for or
on behalf of this defendant, is under no bond to it, keeps
no accounts of or for it, is not on its pay-rolls, was not selected or appointed by it, and this defendant is without power
to discharge him." The only ground upon which it could
possibly be contended that Lawton was a local agent of the
defendant company, within the meaning of this statute, is
that the company paid one-half of the expense incurred in
the maintenance and operation of the joint warehouse. But
surely this fact alone would not create the relation of principal and agent between Lawton and the defendant. While it
may be somewhat difficult to define the line between those
who represent a foreign corporation and those who do not,
within the meaning of the Texas statute quoted, it is perfectly
clear to our minds that the relation between Lawton and the
defendant was not such as to render him a "local agent"
upon whom process against the company could be served, for
in no proper sense was he the direct representative of the
company, any more than a general ticket agent, employed by
one of the great trunk lines running out of New York to the
West, who sells a through ticket to the city of Mexico, which
would entitle the holder of it to transportation to the city of
Iexico over the road of the plaintiff in error, would be its

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

203

Opinion of the Court.

agent, although it might bear some proportion of the expense
of the general office m New York.
The contention on the part of the defendant in error, however, is, that even admitting that the service in this case was
not sufficient to bring the railway company into court; still,
under the laws of Texas, as construed by the highest court
of the State, the special appearance of the company for the
purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of the court in the
premises, and its subsequent answer on the merits, after its
motion to quash the return to the citation had been overruled,
amounted to, or was in effect, a general appearance m the
case, and gave the Circuit Court jurisdiction. In other words,
the point is made that, as the state laws regulating the
procedure and practice of the state courts m actions at law
furnish the rules for procedure in like cases in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, under section 914 of the Revised
Statutes, and as, under the statutes of Texas, a special appearance of a defendant to question or object to the jurisdiction of
the court for want of personal or proper service of process,
even if his objection is sustained, becomes a general appearance to the next term of the court, therefore the court below
in this case, by reason of the special appearance of the defendant, acquired jurisdiction of its person, notwithstanding the
fact that the original service may have been insufficient and
bad.
These statutes regulating the procedure in the state courts
of Texas have been before this court for consideration in
several recent cases. In York v Texas, 137 U. S. 15, the
question was whether this state legislation (Arts. 1242 to 1245,
IRev. Stats. Texas) providing that a defendant who appears
only to obtain the judgment of the court upon the sufficiency
of the service of the process upon him is thereafter subject to
the jurisdiction of the court, although the process against him
is adjudged to have been insufficient to bring him into court
for any purpose, was "due process of law," within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, and
this court held that it was. A like decision was rendered in the
subsequent case of Eauffma v Wootters, 138 U. S. 285, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the ruling in York v Texas was reaffirmed. Those were
cases arising in the state courts, and were brought here on
writs of error to the Supreme Court of the State, and it was,
therefore, properly said in the opinion in York v Texas, p. 20,
that "the State has full power over remedies and procedure
in its own courts, and can make any order it pleases in respect
thereto, provided that substance of right is secured without
unreasonable burden to parties and litigants," citing Antont v
Greenhow, 107 U S. 769.
In the case of Southern Pacj-c Co. v Denton, 146 U S.
202, decided at this term of the court, questions somewhat
similar to those m this case were brought before us. In that
case an action had been brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas by a citizen
of the Eastern District of that State against a corporation
organized under the laws of Kentucky, and therefore a citizen
of that State, and which was doing business in said Western
District. The defendant demurred to the action on the
ground that, under the first section of the act of Congress,
approved March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected
by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 434, it could not
be sued in the Western District of Texas, but if suable at all in
the federal courts of that State it must be sued in the Eastern
District of the State, of wich district the plaintiff was a
citizen. The demurrer was overruled and exceptions saved
by the defendant, after which it filed an answer and went to
trial upon the merits of the case, the trial resulting in a
verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of
$4515. The defendant thereupon sued out a writ of error
from this court, on the question of jurisdiction, under the act
of Congress approved February 25, 1889, (25 Stat. 693,) and
the case was decided here on a motion to disimss that writ of
error. The motion was overruled and the judgment of the
Circuit Court reversed, and the cause remanded with directions
to render judgment for the defendant upon its demurrer.
It was held by the court that, under the act of Congress
approved March 3, 1887, as corrected by the act of August 13,
1888, above referred to, the defendant was not suable in the

M'EXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

205

Opinion of the Court.

Western District of Texas, because neither it nor the plaintiff
was a citizen of that district. In that case the appearance of
the defendant to question the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
was relied on, under the Texas statutes, and the authority of
the Texas decisions and the decisions of this court in Fork
v. Texas and ffaufmanr v Wootters, above cited, to save the
jurisdiction, but this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray, in
reply to tins contention, said (p. 208)
"It is further contended, on behalf of the defendant in
error, that the case is controlled by those provisions of the
statutes of Texas, winch make an appearance in behalf of a
defendant, although in terms limited to the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of the court, a waiver of inmunity from
the jurisdiction by reason of non-residence, and which have
been held by this court not to violate the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, forbidding any
State to deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law Rev Stats. of Texas of 1879, Arts. 12411244, York v State, 73 Texas, 651, S. C. nom. York v
Texas, 137 U. S. 15, Kau'man, v Mootters, 138 U. S.285,
St. Loums &e. Railway v Whitley, 77 Texas, 126, Etna Zns.
Co. v Hanna, 81 Texas, 487.
"But the question in tins case is not of the validity of those
provisions as applied to actions in the courts of the State, but
whether they can be held applicable to actions m the courts of
the United States. This depends on the true construction of
the act of Congress, by which ' the practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than equity and
admiralty causes, in the Oircit and District Courts, shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding, existing at the time i like causes in
the courts of record of the State within which such Circuit or
District Courts are held.' Rev Stat. § 914, Act of June 1,
1872, c. 255, § 5, 17 Stat. 197.
"In one of the earliest cases that arose under this act, tins
court saad. 'The conformity is reqmred to be "as near as
may be" -not as near as may be possible, or as near as may
be practicable. Tins indefiniteness may have been suggested

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

by a purpose it devolved upon the judges to be affected the
duty of construing and deciding, and gave them the power to
reject, as Congress doubtless expected they would do, any subordinate provision in such state statutes which, in their judgment, would unwisely encumber the admimstration of the law
or tend to defeat the ends of justice in their tribunals.' Indianapolis & St. Louts Railroad v .Horst, 93 U. S. 291, 300, 301.
"Under this act, the Circuit Courts of the United States
follow the practice of the courts of the State in regard to the
form and order of pleading, including the manner in which
objections may be taken to the jurisdiction, and the question
whether objections to the jurisdiction and defences on the
merits shall be pleaded successively or together. Delaware
County v .Debold Safe Co., 133 U S. 473, 488, Roberts v
Lewws, 144 U. S. 653. But the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of the United States has been defined and limited by
the acts of Congress, and can be neither restricted nor enlarged by the statutes of a State. Toland v. Sprague,12 Pet.
300, 328, Cowles v Mercer County, 7 Wall. 118, Railway Co.
v W7i4tton, 13 Wall. 270, 286, Phelys v Oas,117 U. S.236,
239. And whenever Congress has legislated upon any matter
of practice, and prescribed a definite rule for the government
of its own courts, it is to that extent exclusive of the legislation of the State upon the same matter. Exyarte -Fisk,113
U S. 713, 721, Whz ford v Clark County, 119 U. S.522.
"The acts of Congress, prescribing m what districts suits
between citizens or corporations of different States shall be
brought, manifest the intention of Congress that such suits
shall be brought and tried in such a district only, and that
no person or corporation shall be compelled to answer to such
a suit in any other district. Congress cannot have intended
that it should be within the power of a State by its statutes
to prevent a defendant, sued in a Circuit Court of the United
States m a district m which Congress has said that he shall
not be compelled to answer, from obtaining a determination
of that matter by that court in the first instance, and by this
court on writ of error. To conform to such statutes of a State
would ' unwisely encumber the administration of the law' as

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

207

. Opmion of the Court.

well as 'tend to defeat the ends of justice' in the national
tribunals. The necessary conclusion is that the provisions
referred to, in the practice act of the State of Texas, have no
application to actions in the courts of the United States."
While the decision in the Denton case does not fully cover
the case at bar, still the reasoning on which the court reached
its conclusion therein has a bearing upon the question under
consideration, which occupies rather a middle ground between
the question presented in York v Texas, above cited, and
that presented in the .Dentarn case, and is not directly or authoritatively controlled by either of those decisions. In the
present case, the precise question is whether the provisions of
the Texas statutes which give to a special appearance, made
to challenge the court's jurisdiction, the force and effect of a
general appearance, so as to confer jurisdiction over the person
of a defendant, are binding upon the Federal courts sitting in
that State, under the rule of procedure prescribed by the 5th
section of the act of June 1, 1872, as reproduced in § 914 of
the Revised Statutes.
The words of this section, "as near as may be," were intended to qualify what would otherwise have been a mandatory provision, and have the effect to leave the Federal courts
some degree of discretion in conforming entirely to the state
procedure. These words imply that, in certain cases, it would
not be practicable, without injustice or inconvemence, to conform literally to the entire practice prescribed for its own
courts by a State in which Federal courts might be sitting.
This qualification is indicated in .Idianapolis & St. Louis
Railroad v forst, 93 U. S.291, 300, 301.
But aside from tns view, there are other provisions of the
statutes which clearly manifest an intention on the part of
Congress not to leave the jurisdiction of the inferior Federal
courts to the regulation and control of state legislation. Thus
by section 1011, Revised Statutes, as corrected by the act of
February 18, 18'[5, c. 80, it is provided that "there shall be no
reversal in the Supreme Court, or in a Circuit Court upon a
writ of error, for error in ruling any plea in abatement, other
than a plea to the jurisdiction of the court." 18 Stat. 318.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

This entirely preserves to this court the right and duty to
pass upon the jurisdiction of the lower court.
So, too, by the act of February 25, 1889, 25 Stat. 693, c. 236,
it is provided that "in all cases where a final judgment or
decree shall be rendered in a Circuit Court of the United
States in which there shall have been a question involving the
jurisdiction of the court, the party against whom the judgment or decree is rendered shall be entitled to an appeal or
writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States to
review such judgment or decree, without reference to the
amount of the same, but m cases where the decree or judgment does not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, the
Supreme Court shall not review any question raised upon the
record except such question of jurisdiction," and it is further
provided that "such writ of error or appeal shall be taken
and allowed under the same provisions of law as apply to
other writs of error or appeals."
By the first clause of section 5 of the act of iMarch 3, 1891,
26 Stat. 826, 827, c. 517, it is provided that "appeals or writs
of error may be taken from the District Courts, or from the
existing Circuit Courts, direct to the Supreme Court
in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is m issue,
in such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for decision."
These provisions of the Federal statutes which confer upon
litigants in the Federal courts the right to have the jurisdiction of such courts reviewed by this court by appeal or writ
of error would be practically destroyed or rendered inoperative
and of no effect if state statutes, such as those of Texas, could
make an appearance to question the jurisdiction of aFederal
court a general appearance, so as to bind the person of the
defendant. It would be an idle ceremony to bring to this
court for review the question of the Circuit Court's jurisdiction, arising out of a failure to serve the defendant with
process, if the defendant's special appearance before the lower
court to challenge its jurisdiction should, under state laws,
amount to a general appearance which conferred such jurms-

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. PINKNEY.

209

Opinion of the Court.

diction. The effect of the statutes of a State giving such an
operation to an appearance for the sole purpose of objecting
to the jurisdiction of the court, would be practically to defeat
the provisions of the Federal statutes which entitle a party to
the right to have this court review the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Under well settled principles
this could not and should not be permitted, for wherever
Congress has legislated on, or m reference to, a particular
subject involving practice or procedure, the state statutes are
never held to be controlling. In Harkness v -Hyde, 98 U. S.
46, it was held by this court that illegality in the service of
process by which jurisdiction is to be obtained is not waived
by the special appearance of the defendant to move that the
service be set aside, nor after such motion is denied by his
answering to the merits. Such illegality is considered as
waived only when he, without having insisted upon it, pleads
in the first instance to the merits. We are of opimon that
under the statutes of the United States the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, sitting in Texas, is not to be controlled by the
statutes of that State above referred to. Jurisdiction I
acquired as against the person by service of process; but as,
against property within the jurisdiction of the court, personal t
service is not required. Boswell v Otks, 9 How 336, Pen-,
noyer v _Nq, 95 U. S. 714. But it is well settled that no,
court can exercise, at common law, jurisdiction over a party
unless he is served with the process within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court, or voluntarily appears. Kendall v.
UntedS&ates, 12 Pet. 524, ZHarvw v H1ardeman, 14 How,,
334.
In the present case, when it was established by the facts
stated in the plea in abatement, and admitted by the demurrer
thereto, that the plaintiff in error was never brought before
the court by any proper or legal process, the Circuit Court
was without jurisdiction to proceed in the case, and m so
doing, and in assuming jurisdiction and proceeding to trial on
the merits, its action was erroneous.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the judgment of the lower
court must be reversed, that the cause be remanded to the
VOL. cxL -14

