OCTOBER TERYT,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

tiffs have, we think they have taken all the precautions which
they were bound to take to prevent a fraudulent imposition of
their thread upon the public, and that the decree of the court
below dismissing the bill should, therefore, be

SHEFFIELD FURNACE COMPANY v. WITHEROW
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAA.
No. 190. Argued April 28, 1893.-Decided May 10, 1893.
A demurrer lacking the affidavit of defendant and certificate of counsel is
fatally defective, and a decree pro confesso may be entered unless something takes place between the filing of the demurrer and the entry of the
decree to take away the right.
The filing of an amended bill after a demurrer, without first obtaining an
order of the court therefor, and the withdrawal of it by the complainant's solicitor in consequence, without paying to the defendant the costs
occasioned thereby and furnishing him with a copy with proper references, do not take away such right.
When one party contracts to erect a building for another party on land of
the latter. and a law of the State gives a mechanics' lien upon the land
upon which the building stands, the parties may contract that the lien
shall extend to other adjoining land of the latter party.
When the state law gives either an action at law or a remedy in equity to
enforce a mechanics' lien, proceedings in a Federal court to enforce it
may be had in equity.

ON May 27, 1886, the appellee, plaintiff below, made a
proposition to defendant to construct on its premises a blast
furnace for the sum of $124,000, $80,000 to be paid on
monthly estimates as the work progressed, the balance to be
secured, "said security to be either a mechanics' lien or first
mortgage on all the furnace company's interests in Sheffield,
at my option." This proposition was accepted on
June 2. The work was completed and accepted on April 24,
1888. On June 27, 1888, plaintiff filed in the office of the
probate court of the proper county a statement for a

SHEFFIELD FURNACE CO. v. WITHEROW

575

Counsel for Appellant.

mechanics' lien, in conformity with the provisions of the statestatute. In this statement the furnace is stated to be situated
at Sheffield, Colbert County, Alabama, on a site containing
about twenty acres, described as follows "Twenty acres of
land in fractional section 29,
contiguous to the city
of Sheffield," etc. On September 5, 1888, plaintiff filed his
bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Alabama to foreclose this mechanics' lien. The
bill averred that a contract was entered into for the construetion of the furnace, that the amount due was $63,279.43,
that a statement of lien had been filed, and prayed for foreclosure, and for general relief. In the bill the contract was
not set out at length, but it was alleged that it was in writing,
and would be produced at the hearing if necessary Attached
to the bill of complaint was the statement filed in the probate
court. A subpcena was duly served upon the defendant on
September 6. On October 1 the defendant applied for and
received a copy of the bill. On October 3 it filed a paper
which it called a demurrer, but which did not have the certificate of counsel or the affidavit of defendant, essential to
a demurrer, as required by equity rule 31. On the rule day
in November (November 5) a decreepro confesso was entered,
and on December 19 a final decree was also entered, finding
the amount due as claimed, the existence of a lien upon the
twenty acres, and ordering a foreclosure and sale. At the
final hearing the plaintiff produced the lien papers, which
were filed in the office of the probate court, the contract
between the parties, a certificate from the superintendent of
the company defendant of compliance with the terms of the
contract, and an affidavit of counsel for the plaintiff to the
genuineness of these documents. At the next term, and on
February 4, 1889, a motion and petition was filed by defendant in the Circuit Court to set aside the final decree, which
was overruled on the 15th of February, 1889. An appeal to
this court was duly perfected.
Mr T 1. Roulhac, (with whom was .Xr Bschard TW
Walker on the brief,) and Ar H. . Tompkzns for appellant.

OCTOBER TERr, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr Wayne .Me Teagh and _Mr HZenry B. Tompkzns, (with
whom was .Mrb A. I. Wintersteen on the brief,) for appellee.
MR. JUSTIOE BREW R,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Inasmuch as the so-called demurrer was fatally defective
in lacking the affidavit of defendant and certificate of counsel,
required by rule 31, there was no error in disregarding it,
and entering a decree pro confesso at the November rules.
Equity Rule 18, H ational Bank v Insurance Company, 104
U S. 54, 76. And such a decree after the November rules
would entitle the plaintiff to a final decree as taken on
December 19, Equity Rule 19, Thomson v Wooster, 114 U S.
104, unless something had taken place intermediate to take
away such right. It appears that on the 14th day of November the plaintiff filed an amendment to the original bill, which
amendment consisted substantially of allegations that the
twenty-acre tract was within the limits of the city of Sheffield,
and that the furnace and its appurtenances were in the middle
of said tract, and occupied more than one acre of land, and
required for convenience and profit the whole of the tract,
upon which appears, after the endorsement of the clerk of its
filing, a further endorsement, as follows
"The filing of this amended bill is erroneous, and the same
is withdrawn, no order of the court having been obtained
ordering the filing thereof. Henry B. Tompkins, sol. for
complainant."
This proceeding on the part of the plaintiff, it is insisted,
destroyed his right to take the final decree, but this is a mistake. While under equity rule 28 the plaintiff might, after a
copy of the bill had been taken out of the office by the defendant, and before plea, answer, or demurrer, amend the bill
without order of the court, yet, before he could claim any
benefit of such amendment, he was required to pay to the.
defendant the costs occasioned thereby, and without delay
furnish it a copy thereof free of expense, with full reference
to the places where the amendments were to be inserted. As

SHEFFIELD FURNACE CO. v. WITHEROW

577

Opinion of the Court.

he had done neither of these things, he could claim no benefit
from the filing of the amended bill, and when he entered upon
it a withdrawal he left the case to stand as though no amendment had been attempted. Besides, the defendant, being in
default, was in no position to take advantage of the plaintiff's
action in withdrawing the amendment. There was, therefore,
nothing erroneous in the matter of procedure - nothing which
would compel the court at a subsequent term to set aside the
decree.
While in this motion and petition there are stated many
matters in which it is claimed there was error, on account of
which the decree should be set aside, and the defendant given
leave to plead, and while there is a general allegation that it
has a full, perfect, and meritorious defence to the demand set
up in the bill, yet it is not alleged that the contract for the
building of the furnace was not made as stated, or that the
statement for lien was not filed, or that the amount claimed to
be due was not due and unpaid. So that the case is presented
of an effort on the part of defendant to avoid or delay the payment of a just debt. Of course, it need not be said that under
such circumstances a court of equity will not strain a point to
assist a defendant. It is 'insisted in this motion to set aside
the decree that the twenty acres described in the bill and
decree are the absolute property of some other person or persons than the defendant. Even if that be true, we do not see
how the defendant is prejudiced. If the plaintiff has made a
mistake, and is attempting to sell somebody else's land, the
owner is the party who has the right to complain, and the
defendant, whose property is not touched, has no ground to
object.
But the two principal matters are these. First. It is insisted
that this mechanics' lien depends for its validity and scope on
the Alabama statutes, that under those statutes the lien is
limited to one acre, to be selected by the party entitled to the
lien, unless the premises are within a city, town, or village, in
which case it may extend to the entire lot or parcel of land
upon which the improvement is situated, that the bill refers
for a description of the property to the statement filed with
VOL. cxxx-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

the probate court, that such statement describes the land as
contiguous to the city of Sheffield, and does not show that it
is within the limits of any city, town, or village, that, therefore, the limit to which the lien and decree could go was one
acre of the tract, and that such acre was not described, that
the amendment which was attempted to be made averred that
this land was in the city of Sheffield, and was a single lot or
piece of ground necessary for the operation of the furnace,
and that only by a consideration of matters thus presented in
the amendment could the decree properly extend to the twenty
acres. It is a sufficient answer to this contention to say that
the bill claimed a lien on the twenty acres, that nothing in
the bill or statement affirmatively shows that the land was not
within the limits of some city, town, or village, and that the
contract which was produced stipulated for security by mechanics' lien or first mortgage on all the furnace company's
interests in Sheffield. Surely parties can contract to extend
the area of property to be covered by a lien. Such a stipulation is tantamount to an equitable mortgage. .Yetchum v St.
.Louss, 101 U. S. 306, 316, 317 , 3 Pomeroy's q. Juris. see.
1235, PzncA v Anthony, 8 Allen, 536. The plaintiff under
his contract was entitled to a written and express mortgage of
the entire realty of the company at Sheffield, and when he
demanded in his bill that the statutory lien which he had filed
should be extended to the twenty acres he was only relying
upon the promise made by the defendant that the lien should
extend to that tract, a promise which the defendant ight
lawfully make, although, as to the excess of ground over one
acre, the contract may be only in the nature of an equitable
mortgage. This objection to the decree cannot be sustained.
But the main reliance of the defendant is on the proposition
that the statutes of Alabama provide for an action at law to
enforce a mechanics' lien. This lien being a statutory right,
it is insisted that the remedy prescribed by the statute is the
one which must be pursued even in the Federal courts, and
that, as the plaintiff had therefore a right to maintain an
action at law in the Circuit Court, he could not proceed by a
suit in equity, which in the Federal courts can only be main-

SHEFFIELD FURNACE 00. v. WITHEROW

579

Opinion of the Court.

tamed when there is no adequate remedy at law While the
Alabama statutes in force at the time of this suit (Code of
Alabama, 1886, section 3048) in terms authorize the foreclosure
of a mechanics' lien by bill in equity, without alleging or
proving any special ground of equitable jurisdiction, yet the
contention is that the plaintiff cannot avail himself in the
Federal court of this last statutory remedy, although he could
pursue either in the state courts, because, as stated, if there
be an action at law there cannot, under the settled rules of
Federal procedure, be also a suit in equity It certainly would
be curious that state legislation which gives to a party the
choice, in the state courts, between an action at law and a
suit in equity to enforce his rights, enables him to maintain in
the Federal courts only an action at law, and forbids a suit in
equity, when the latter is the ordinary and appropriate method
for enforcing such rights. And the foreclosure of a mechanics'
lien is essentially an equitable proceeding. As said by Mr.
Justice Field, speaking for the court in Oa/vw v Alvord, 94
U. S. 545, 546 "It is essentially a. suit in equity, requiring
specific directions for the sale of the property, such as are
usually given upon the foreclosure of mortgages and sale of
mortgaged premises." Idaho & Oregon Land Improvement
6o. v B'adbury, 132 U. S.509. And it may well be affirmed
that a State, by prescribing an action at law to enforce even
statutory rights, cannot oust a Federal court, sitting in equity,
of its jurisdiction to enforce such rights, provided they are of
an equitable nature. In Robnson v Campbell, (3 Wheat. 212,
222,) it was said " A construction, therefore, that would adopt
the state practice in all its extent would at once extinguish, in
such States, the exercise of equitable jurisdiction. The acts. of
Congress have distinguished between remedies at common law
and in equity, yet this construction would confound them. The
court, therefore, thinks that to effectuate the purposes of the
legislature the remedies in the courts of the United States are
to be at common law or in equity, not according to the practice
of state courts, but according to the principles of common law
and equity, as distinguished and defined in that country from
which we derive our knowledge of those principles." Hfooper

