OCTOBER TERM) 1892.
Statement of the Case.

failure and abandoned, the evidence is equally clear that
Aldrich, after putting the goods upon the market for a year
and a half, abandoned the business and has not resumed it.
There does not seem to be much to choose between them in
this particular.
This case is substantially like that of Underwood v Gerber,
ante, 224, decided at the present term, in which the patentee
claimed a fabric coated with a composition composed of a
precipitate of dye matter, in composition with oil, wax or
oleaginous matter, without claiming the composition of this
matter. The patent was treated as one for applying the composition to paper, and was found to be without novelty
The decree of the court below, will, therefore, be
Affirmed.

COATS v. MERRICK THREAD COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 261. Argued April 27, 28, 1893. -Decided

May 10, 1893.

Irrespective of any question of trade-marks, rival manufacturers have no
right, by imitative devices, to beguile the public into buying their wares
under the impression that they are buying those of their rivals.
The proofs establish that there was no intention on the part of the appellees to impose their thread upon the public as that of the plaintiff in
error, or to mislead the dealers who purchased of them.
When the letters patent to Hezekiah Conant, protecting" a new design for
embossing the ends of sewing-thread spools" expired, the public became
entitled to use them for the purpose for which the assignee of Conant
used them.

THIs was a bill in equity by the firm of J & P Coats, of
Paisley, Scotland, to enjoin the defendants, the Merrick Thread
Company, a Massachusetts corporation, and Herbert F Palmer,
its managing agent in New York, from infringing plaintiffs'
trade-mark, and unfairly competing with them, by simulating

COATS v. MERRICK THREAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

certain labels and symbols used by the plaintiffs upon the ends
of wooden spools upon which sewing thread is wound.
The bill set forth in substance that plaintiffs had, since 1830,
been engaged in the manufacture and sale of sewing threads
on spools, and since the year 1840 the thread made by them
had been and still was sold largely in the United States, that
since about the year 1869 said firm had also been engaged in
the manufacture of thread at Pawtucket, in the State of Rhode
Island, that their business was very large and valuable, and
their thread was well known to the trade as "J & P Coats'
thread," that all the thread manufactured by plaintiffs, which
is wound on spools of 200-yard lengths, had been and still was
composed of six separate strands twisted together, known as
"six-cord" thread, and was designated upon their labels and
wrappers as "Best Six Cord." That about the year 1842, the
name "J & P Coats," with the quantity reeled on each spool,
and the words "Best Six Cord," with a designating number,
were placed upon a circular black and gilt label upon the end of
every spool, and had always been one of the designating trademarks of the plaintiffs in the United States; that in 1869 they
adopted the idea of embossing upon the natural wood and
upon the outer edge of the heads of the spools numerals corresponding with those upon the paper labels pasted upon the
centre of said spool heads, the object of such embossing being
to show the number of the thread in case the paper label showing such number should be defaced or removed, and also to
give a distinctive appearance to the plaintiffs' spools, and to
indicate the origin and manufacture of the thread. The
bill further averred that on the 9th of February, 1875, plaintiffs registered as a trade-mark at the Patent Office the
central label of paper, and the peripheral band of natural
wood, embossed with an ornamental design of crossed lines
and central stars, with intermediate spaces, in which were
embossed numerals corresponding to those in the centre of
the label.
The bill further charged the defendant, the Merrick Thread
Company, with being the manufacturers of both the "threecord" thread, a thread of inferior grade, and also of "six-

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Counsel for Appellees.

cord" thread on spools in length of 200 yards, that for the
three-cord thread the defendants used paper labels, wholly
unlike, in color or design, to any labels used by the plaintiffs,
but that in selling in competition with the plaintiffs the sixcord thread, they used labels upon the spools made in colorable imitation of the plaintiffs', and intended as a counterfeit of
their designs and trade-mark, the object being to so imitate
the general appearance of plaintiffs' thread that the same
may pass into the bands of tailors, illiterate men, and others
buying at retail and using sewing thread, as the genuine thread
of plaintiffs.
In their answer the defendants denied the material allegations of the bill, and that the marks, embossment and labels
used by the Merrick Thread Company were a simulation or
infringement upon the plaintiffs' labels and trade-marks, but,
upon the contrary, averred that they had endeavored to mark
their goods so that no one could mistake their origin, and that
their labels were so different from those of the plaintiffs and
other manufacturers that they were plainly distinguishable
from them by ordinary purchasers. They further averred
that the use of embossing the number of the spool thread on
the wood of the spool head around the paper label was, on
April 5, 1870, patented as a design to one Rezekiah Conant,
which patent had long since expired, and alleged that since
such expiration the defendants had the free right to use such
design, including any paper label which was not in and by
itself an infringement of any lawful trade-mark of the
plaintiffs.
On a hearing in the court below upon pleadings and proofs
the bill was dismissed, (36 Fed. Rep. 324,) on the ground that
defendants were not shown to have made an unlawful use of
the plaintiffs' labels. Plaintiffs thereupon appealed to this
court.
.XPf _FrePderc I.

Betts for appellants.

-Hr W C. Witter, (with whom was J!r
the brief,) for appellees.

HF
. JKenyom on

COATS v. MERRtICK TtREAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

:ri. JUsTiCE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The gravamen of the plaintiffs' bill is contained in the allegation that the defendants have been guilty of an unlawful
and unfair competition in business, in that they have been in-

fringing the rights of plaintiffs in and to certain marks, symbols and labels, by selling in competition with the plaintiffs
a spool thread of "six cords" put up on spools of 200 yards'
length, which thread is not manufactured by these plaintiffs,
but is put upon the market and sold among retailers and customers, as well in the city of New York as in other and distant parts of the United States, as and for the thread of the
plaintiffs, by reason of the labels, marks, and devices upon the
spools whereon the said thread is wound.
It will be observed in this connection that no complaint is
made of the conduct of the defendants with respect to any
other thread than that of six cords put up in spools of 200
yards in length, notwithstanding that both plaintiffs and defendants have been long engaged in the manufacture of thread
of several different sizes and lengths. Nor is it alleged that
defendants have used any other means of imposing their thread
upon the public as that of the plaintiffs, except by the imitation of their device upon one end of the spool. The dissimilarity between the labels on the other end of the spool is so
great that it is not and could not be claimed that any intent
to imitate existed.
It is admitted, however, that six-cord spool cotton is the
thread most largely used for domestic consumption, and, put
up on spools of 200 yards' length, in numbers from 8 to 100,
is best known and purchased by the great mass of consumers;
and that it is as manufacturers of this description of thread
that the plaintiffs are and have for a, long time been known
throughout the country
The controversy between the two parties then is reduced to
the single question whether, comparing the two designs upon
the main or upper end of the spool, there is such resemblance
as to indicate an intent on the part of defendants to put off

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

their thread upon the public as that of the plaintiffs, and thus
to trade upon their reputation. There can be no question of
the soundness of the plaintiffs' proposition that, irrespective
of the technical question of trade-mark, the defendants have
no right to dress their goods up in such manner as to deceive
an intending purchaser, and induce him to believe he is buying those of the plaintiffs. Rival manufacturers may lawfully
compete for the patronage of the public in the quality and price
of their goods, in the beauty and tastefulness of their enclosing
packages, in the extent of their advertising, and in the employment of agents, but they have no right, by imitative devices, to beguile the public into buying their wares under the
impression they are buying those of their rivals. Perry v
T'ueftt, 6 Beav 66, Croft v Day, 7 Beav 81, Lee v Haley,
L. R. 5 Gh. 155, Wotherspoon v Currme, L. R. 5 H. L. 508,
Johnston v Ewzng, 7 App. Cas. 219, Thompson v .Montgomery, 41 Ch. D 35, Taylor v Caqpenter, 2 Sand. Oh. 603,
feLean v
Amoskeag -ffg. Co. v Spear, 2 Sand. iN. Y 599,
Fleming, 96 U S. 245, Boardmanv .lfertden Britannza Co.,
35 Connecticut, 402, Gilman v Hunnewell, 122 Mass. 139.
For the better understanding of the question in this case,
the respective devices of the plaintiffs and defendants are here
given in juxtaposition

0oUVV

40

It will be seen that in both devices there is a paper label,
circular in form, much smaller than the head of the spool,
containing, in black letters upon a gilt ground, the name of
the manufacturer, the number of the thread, and the words
"Best Six Cord," arranged in circular form to correspond
with the shape of the label. Around this label in each case is

COATS v. MERRICK THREAD CO.
Oplion of the Court.

a peripheral border of natural wood, having the number of
the thread embossed upon such periphery The differences
are less conspicuous than the general resemblance between the
two. At the same time they are such as could not fail to
impress themselves upon a person who examined them with a
view to ascertain who was the real manufacturer of the thread.
Plaintiffs' label contains the words "J & P Coats, Best Six
Cord" in a gilt band around the border, and in the centre the
symbol "200 Yds." and the number of the thread. Defendants' label contains the words "Jvferrick Thread Co.," and the
number of their thread in the gilt band upon the border, and
in the centre the words "Best Six Cord," enclosing a star.
The periphery of defendants' spool is also embossed with four
stars, instead of the loops of the plaintiffs, as well as the number of the thread.
As bearing upon the question of fraudulent intent, the history of these labels is pertinent. Since 1830, plaintiffs have
been engaged in the manufacture of thread at Paisley, Scotland, in the name of J & P Coats. About 1840, their thread
was first put upon the market in this country, and for more than
twenty-five years past they have been manufacturing thread
at Pawtucket, Rhode Island, in the name of the Conant
Thread Company Prior to this time, six-cord thread was
not made in this country, a kind of thread known as glace,
and composed of three cords, being the only thing made prior
to 1865. At about the same time the manufacture of this
thread was also begun by the Willimantic Linen Company,
George A. Clark & Co. and the defendants. From the time
plaintiffs' thread began to be exported to this country to the
present time their spools have borne the black and gold label,
represented above, and still in use. For the past thirty years
they have been by far the largest manufacturers and dealers
in spool thread in this country On April 5, 1810, -Mr.Conant,
the treasurer of the company, obtained a design patent "for
embossing the ends of sewing-thread spools," which was subsequently assigned to the plaintiffs, and which covered a "design for ornamenting the ends of the sewing-thread spools,
which consists of a chain of loops, aa, within which loops is a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

number expressive of the number of the thread wound on the
spool, substantially as shown and described." The purpose of
the design was stated to be "to preserve the number of the
thread with which the spool is wound after the label has been
destroyed by the act of setting the spool upon the spool-stand
of a sewing-machine." This patent expired in 1877. In 1875,
(February 9,) plaintiffs registered a trade-mark consisting of
"a central label of paper formed of concentric circles of black
on a light ground containing on one of the light bands the
words J & P Coats,' ' Best Six Cord,' and on the central
black circle the figures and letters '200 Yds.,' and a numeral,
On the end of the spool, surrounding the label, is a
peripheral band of the natural wood embossed with an ornamental design of crossed lines and central stars, with intermediate spaces, in which are embossed numerals corresponding to
that on the centre of the label." The essential features.of
this trade-mark were declared to be "the label of concentric
rings, having in the central spot a numeral, and an embossed
peripheral border of the natural wood, including among its
ornamental designs the same numeral as that displayed in tho
centre." This trade-mark has been in use by the plaintiffs
from its date to the present time.
Upon the part of the defendants, it was shown that the
Merrick Thread Company was organized under that name in
1865, soon after which it began and has ever since continued
to make at its mills at Holyoke, Mass., 200-yard spools of sixcord thread, and to designate it on one head of the spool with
a black and gold label of concentric rings bearing thereon the
name, size, and quality of the thread, following in this particular the method of designating such thread which has been in
vogue for more than fifty years, and without which it is claimed
to be impossible to market such thread. About the same time,
plaintiffs began to manufacture at Pawtucket, Rhode Island,
the same article, and to designate it with the usual black and
gold label - the same label they had used abroad upon a thread
marketed here. For a dozen years or more the defendants
continued this method of designating their thread without
objection from the plaintiffs, but, after the expiration of plain-

COATS v. MERRICK THREAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs' design patent, and in 1878, defendants embossed this
numerical design, somewhat changed, upon their own spool
heads, in connection with their own label. Whereupon plaintiffs notified them of their claim to an exclusive use of this
combination, and some time thereafter brought this suit, claiming that defendants were guilty of unfair competition in
business.
In disproof of any intention upon their part to impose their
thread upon the public as that of the plaintiffs, defendants
show that their thread was expressly advertised through the
country as that of the "1Merrick Thread Company," or the
"1Star Thread," and also put in evidence the cabinets furnished
by the defendants for the exhibition of their threads in the
retail shops, upon which is conspicuously labelled in large gilt
letters the words "Merrick's Six Cord Spool Cotton," as well
as their advertising or show cards, of which several specimens
were shown, which were also lettered conspicuously in the
same manner. Their wrappers and boxes are also so clearly
distinguishable from those of the plaintiffs that it would be
hardly possible to mistake one for the other. We think the
defendants have clearly disproved any intention on their part.
to mislead the dealers who purchase of them. Indeed, such
dealers could not possibly fail to know what they were buying,
and the fraud, if any, was practised on the buyer of a single
or a small number of spools, who might be induced to purchase
the thread of the defendants for that of the plaintiffs.
In answer to the question whether the defendants have
been guilty of a fraudulent imitation of the plaintiffs' marks
and symbols, it is also pertinent to consider to what extent
the black and gold label, which constitutes an important feature of this device, had been used by others with their consent,
and to what extent it has become recognized as a means of
identifying the best six-cord thread. If the plaintiffs had
been the first and only ones to make use of this label, another
person seizing upon and appropriating a black and gold label
of the same size, and for the same purpose, might be held
guilty of infringement, when, if the plaintiffs had no exclusive
right thereto, and defendants had done only what others had

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

done before, they would not be so considered. In this connection it appears that the Willimantic Linen Company, which
now seems to be in combination with the plaintiffs, began the
use of the black and gold label of concentric rings as early as
1865, as a designation of six-cord 200-yard spool thread, and
that other firms, both before and after that, made use of
similar labels for the same purpose, including those of Orrs &
McNaught, (from 1855 to 1870,) George A. Clark, J & J
Clark, the Williston Mills, the Semples, the firm of Kerr &
Co., the Hadley Co., E. Ashworth & Sons, and others at
different times from 1850 to the present, who have made use
of black and gold labels bearing nearly, though, it must be
admitted, not quite as close, a resemblance to plaintiffs as do
those of defendants. There was also evidence that as early
as 1821 the thread of John Clark, Jr., or of J & J Clark,
was imported into this country with labels in black and gold in
concentric rings, with the makers' name upon them. Indeed,
the testimony indicates that the black and gold labels have
become so identified with this luality -of thread by inmemorial usage that it would be impossible to introduce or sell a
new manufacture of such thread without making use of that
character of label, and that a six-cord thread attempted to be
put upon the market with a label of any other general color
would be suspected of being a three-cord or basting cotton,
and practically unsalable as six-cord. In fact, the defendants
produced testimony tending to show that in two instances
attempts have been made to put a six-cord thread upon the
market without a black and gold label, but in one case at
least the project had to be abandoned, and the manufacturer
was obliged to return to the usual black and gold label. In
addition to this, it appeared that the Merrick Thread Company began to make and put upon the market 200-yard sixcord thread in the early part of 1868, and made use of a black
and gold label, bearing the name of the American Thread
Company, which in 1877 was changed to the Merrick Thread
Company, the word "American" being placed upon the other
end of the spool to preserve the identity of the thread.
Regarding it, then, as established that other manufacturers

COATS v. MERRICK THREAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

had by long practice, and with the acquiescence of the plaintiffs, acquired the right to make use of the black and gold
label, it is difficult to see how the defendants could have
advertised more clearly the fact that it was their own thread,
or better accentuated the distinction between its own and
Coats' than it did by the alleged infringing label. Of course,
a person seeking to distinguish his label from that of another
labors under certain disadvantages in the fact that the shape
of the head almost necessarily requires the label to be round,
and the size of the spool demands that it shall be small. In
the defendants' spool not only did the words "Merrick Thread
Co." clearly and distinctly appear, but the number of the
thread is placed conspicuously in the margin, and the centre
is ornamented with a star, which does not appear upon the
plaintiffs' As already observed, the label upon the reverse
end of the spool is wholly different from that of the plaintiffs. It is clear that neither the words "Best Six Cord,"
nor "200 Yds." are capable of exclusive appropriation, as
they are descriptive, and indicative only of quality and
length.
The propriety of the employment of the embossed periphery
depends upon somewhat different considerations. In 1870,
Kezekiah Conant, of Pawtucket, Rhode Island, the manager
of plaintiffs' American manufactory, took out the design
patent for this embossed periphery This patent seems to have
been respected until 1871, when it expired, shortly after
which the defendants introduced upon the periphery of their
spool corresponding numerals, but with stars substituted for
plaintiffs' loops. Defendants were guilty of no wrong to the
plaintiffs in making use of corresponding designs for their own
spool heads after the expiration of plaintiffs' patent. There
was no attempt to imitate the peculiar chain or loop characteristic of this design, but the embossed numerals were made
use of for the same purpose for which they had been originally designed, namely, to preserve the number of the thread
when the label became defaced, or lost, or destroyed by the
use of the spool in the sewing machine. Indeed, the idea of
stamping the numeral upon the periphery of the spool does

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

not seem to have been original with Conant, but appears to

have been used by the defendants as early as 1867.
However this may be, plaintiffs' right to the use of the
embossed periphery expired with their patent, and the public
had the same right to make use of it as if it never had been
patented. Without deciding whether if the embossed periphery had contained a word which was capable of being
appropriated as a trade-mark, defendants could have appropriated the same upon the expiration of their patent, it is clear
that no such monopoly could be claimed of mere numerals,
used descriptively, and therefore not capable of exclusive appropriation because they represent the number of the thread, and
are, therefore, of value as information to the public. Amoskeag .Mfg. Co. v T2.aier, 101 U S. 51.

Clearly the plaintiffs

cannot, as patentees, claim a monopoly of these numerals beyond the life of the patent, and it is equally clear that, where
used for the purpose of imparting information, they are not
susceptible of exclusive appropriation as a trade-mark, but are
the common property of all mankind. The patent being, not
simply for the embossed number, but for embossing the same
upon the periphery of the spool head, defendants were entitled, upon the expiration of such patent, to use them for a
like purpose. Neither was there anything misleading to the
public in such use of them, as the testimony is clear and uncontradicted that thread is bought and sold not by its distinctive marks, but by the name of the maker.
Plaintiffs, however, claim that, being the first to use the
combination of a black and gold Tabel with an embossed periphery, they should be protected against any such imitation
by others as would mislead any ordinary purchaser of thread
in small quantities. A large number of witnesses were sworn
upon this subject, whose testimony tended to show that they
had either purchased themselves or seen others purchase defendants' thread, supposing it to be Coats' This testimony
was not, however, wholly satisfactory, and threw but little
light upon the controversy
There is no doubt a general resemblance between the heads
of all spools containing a black and gold label which might

COATS v. MERRICK THREAD CO.
Opmnon of the Court.

induce a careless purchaser to accept one for the other. Defendants, however, were not bound to any such degree of care
as would prevent this. Having, as we have already held,
the right to use the black and gold label, and the periphery
embossed with the number of the thread, they were only
bound to take such care as the use of such devices, and the
limited space in which they were used, would allow In short,
they could do little more than place their own name conspicuously upon the label, to rearrange the number by placing
it in the border instead of the centre of the label, and to omit
loops of the plaintiffs' periphery, and substitute their own star
between the numerals. Having done this, we think they are
relieved from further responsibility If the purchaser of such
thread desires a particular make he should either call for
such, in which case the dealer, if he put off on him a different
make, would be guilty of fraud, for which the defendants would
not be responsible, or should examine himself the lettering
upon the spools. He is chargeable with knowledge of the fact
that any manufacturer of six-cord thread has a right to use a
black and gold label, and is bound to examine such label with
sufficient care to ascertain the name of the manufacturer. Indeed, the intent to imitate plaintiffs' spool heads, if any such
intent existed, is manifest rather in the label than in the periphery, but plaintiffs having submitted to this without protest
for twelve years, have waived their right to relief upon this
ground. _YcLaughlin v People's .Railway Co., 21 Fed. Rep.
574, Ladd v Cameron, 25 Fed. iRep. 37, Green v French, 4
Bann. & Ard. 169, 3 IRob. on Pats. ยง 1194. Having already
held that defendants had a right to make use of the embossed numeral in the periphery, their union of the two devices
upon the same spool head, both being originally designed to
be used in conjunction, cannot be made the basis of a suit.
Upon the whole, we think the plaintiffs have failed to prove
a case of unfair competition, or any illegal attempt of the defendants to impose their thread upon the public as that of the
plaintiffs, that with the right to use the black and gold label
as other manufacturers have and continue to use it, and with
the same right to use the embossed numerals which the plain-

