OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

UNION PAciFIc RAILWAY COMPANY v. TAGGART. Error to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado.
No. 212. Argued with 211.
This case depends upon the same facts as the one previously decided, and is controlled by the cecision of that case, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
WONG QUAN v. UNITED STATES.
LEE JOE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERIN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 1345, 1316,1347. Argued May 10, 1893.-Decided May 15, 1893.

The right to exclude or to expel aliens, or any class of aliens, absolutely or
upon certain conditions, in war or in peace, is an inherent and inalienable
right of every sovereign and independent nation.
In the United States, the power to exclude or to expel aliens is vested in
the political departments of the national government, and is to be regulated by treaty or by act of Congress, and to be executed by the executive
authority according to the regulations so established, except so far as
the judicial department is authorized by treaty or by statute, or is reqnired by the Constitution, to intervene.
The power of Congress to expel, like the power to exclude, aliens, or any
specified class of aliens, from the country may be exercised entirely
through executive officers; or Congress may call in the aid of the judiciary to ascertain any contested facts on which an alien's right to remain
in the country has been made by Congress to depend.
Congress has the rmht to provide a system of registration and identification
of any class of aliens within the country and to take all proper means
to carry out that system.
The provisions of an act of Congress, passed in the exercise of its constitutional authority, must, if clear and explicit, be upheld by the courts,
even in contravention of stipulations in an earlier treaty.
Section 6 of the act of Mlay 5, 1892, c. 60, requiring all Chinese laborers

FONG YUE TING. v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
within the United States at the time of its passage, "1and who are entitled
to remain in the United States," to apply within a year to a collector of
internal revenue for a certificate of residence; and providing that any
one who does not do so, or is afterwards found in the United States
without such a certificate, "1shall be deemed and adjudged to be unlawfully in the United States," and may be arrested by any officer of the
customs, or collector of internal revenue, or marshal, or deputy of either,
and taken before a United States judge, who shall order him to be deported from the United States to his own country, unless he shall clearly
establish to the satisfaction of the judge that by reason of accident,
sickness, or other unavoidable cause, he was unable to procure his certificate, and "by at least one credible white witness" that he was a resident
of the United States at the time of the passage of the act; is constitutional and valid.

THESE -were three writs of habeas corpus, granted by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, upon petitions of Chinese laborers, arrested and
held by the marshal of the district for not having certificates
of residence, under section 6 of the act of May 5, 1892, c. 60,
wlhch is copied in the margin.'

I An act to prohibit the coming of Chinese persons into the United States.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That all laws now in force, prohibiting and regulating the coming into this country of Chinese persons and
persons of Chinese descent, are hereby continued in force for a period often years from the passage of this act.
SEc. 2. That any Chinese person or person of Chinese descent, when
convicted and adjudged under any of said laws to be not lawfully entitled
to be or remain in the United States, shall be removed from the United
States to China, unless he or they shall make it appear to the justice, judge or
commissioner before whom he or they are tried, that he or they are subjects
or citizens of some other country, in which case he or they shall be removed from the United States to such country- Provided, that in any case
where such other country, of which such Chinese person shall claim to be
a citizen or subject, shall demand any tax as a condition of the removal of
such person to that country he or she shall be removed to China.
SEc. 3. That any Chinese person, or person of Chinese descent, arrested
under the provisions of this act or the acts hereby extended, shall be adjudged to be unlawfully within the United States, unless such person shall
establish, by affirmative proof, to the satisfaction of such justice, judge or
commissioner, his lawful right to remain in the United States.

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The rules and regulations made and promulgated by the
Secretary of the Treasury under section 7 of that act prescribe

SEc. 4. That any such Chinese person, or person of Chinese descent,
convicted and adjudged to be not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the
United States, shall be imprisoned at hard labor for a period of not exceeding one year, and thereafter removed from the United States, as hereinbefore provided.
SEC. a. That after the passage of this act, on an application to any judge
or court of the United States in the first instance for a writ of habeas corpus, by a Chinese person seeking to land in the United States, to whom
that privilege has been denied, no bail shall be allowed, and such application
shall be heard and determined promptly without unnecessary delay.
SEC. 6. And it shall be the duty of all Chinese laborers, within the limits
of the United States at the time of the passage of this act, and who are
entitled to remain in the United States, to apply to the collector of internal
revenue of their respective districts, within one year after the passage of
this act, for a certificate of residence; and any Chinese laborer, within the
limits of the United States, who shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply
with the provisions of this act, or who, after one year from the passage
hereof, shall be found within the jurisdiction of the United States without
such certificate of residence, shall be deemed and adjudged to be unlawfully
within the United States, and may be arrested by any United States customs
official, collector of internal revenue or his deputies, United States marshal
or his deputies, and taken before a United States judge, whose duty it shall
be to order that he be deported from the United States as hereinbefore
provided, unless he shall establish clearly, to the satisfaction of said judge,
that by reason of accident, sickness, or other unavoidable cause, he has
been unable to procure his certificate, and to the satisfaction of the court,
and by at least one credible white witness, that he was a resident of the
United States at the time of the passage of this act, and if upon the hearing it shall appear that he is so entitled to a certificate, it shall be granted,
upon his paying the cost. Should it appear that said Chinaman had procured
a certificate which has been lost or destroyed, he shall be detained and judgment suspended a reasonable time to enable him to procure a duplicate from
the officer granting it; and in such cases the cost of said arrest and trial
shall be in the discretion of the court. And any Chinese person other than
a Chinese laborer, having a right to be and remain in the United States,
desiring such certificate as evidence of such right, may apply for and receive the same without charge.
SEC. 7. That immediately after the passage of this act the Secretary of
the Treasury shall make such rules and regulations as may be necessary
for the efficient execution of this act, and shall prescribe the necessary
forms and furnish the necessary blanks to enable collectors of internal revenue to issue the certificates required hereby, and make such provisions

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.

70i

Statement of the Case.

forms for applications for certificates of residence, for aifidavits in support thereof, and for the certificates themselves,
contain the provisions copied in the margin,' and also provide
0

that certificates may be procured in localities convenient to the applicants;
such certificates shall be issued without charge to the applicant, and shall
contain the name, age, local residence and occupation of the applicant, and
such other description of the applicant as shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury; and a duplicate thereof shall be filed in the office of
the collector of internal revenue for the district within which such Chinaman makes application.
Sc. 8. That any person who shall knowingly and falsely alter or substitute any name for the name written in such certificate, or forge such
certificate, or knowingly utter any forged or fraudulent certificate, or
falsely personate any person named in such certificate, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, or imprisoned in the penitentiary for a term
of not more than five years.
SEc. 9. The Secretary of the Treasury may authorize the payment of
such compensation in the nature of fees to the collectors of internal revenue, for services performed under the provisions of this act, in addition
to salaries now allowed by law, as he shall deem necessary not exceeding
the sum of one dollar for each certificate issued.
'Collectors of internal revenue will receive applications on the following
form, at their own offices, from such Chinese as are conveniently located
thereto, and will cause their deputies to proceed to the towns or cities in
their respective divisions where any considerable number of Chinese are
residing, for the purpose of receiving applications. No application -will be
received later than MBay 5, 1893.
Collectors and deputies will give such notice, through leading Chinese,
or by notices posted in the Chinese quarter of the various localities, as
will be sufficient to apprise all Chinese residing in their districts of their
readiness to receive applications and the time and place where they may be
made. All applications received by deputies must be forwarded to the collector's office, from whose office all certificates of residence will be issued,
and sent to the deputy for delivery.
The affidavit of at least one credible witness of good character to the
fact of residence and lawful status within the United States must be furnished with every application. If the applicant is unable to furnish such
witness satisfactory to the collector or his deputy his application will be
rejected, unless he shall furnish other proof of his right to remain in the
United States, in which case the application, with the proofs presented,
shall be forwarded to the commissioner of internal revenue for his decision.
The witness must appear before the collector or his deputy, and be fully
questioned in regard to his testimony before being sworn.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

for recording duplicates of the certificates in the office of the
collector of internal revenue.
The first petition alleged that the petitioner was a person
of the Chinese race, born in China, and not a naturalized citizen of the United States, that in or before 1879 he came to
the United States, with the intention of remaining and taking
up his residence therein, and with no definite intention of returning to China, and had ever since been a permanent resident of the United States, and for more than a year last past
had resided in the city, county and State of New York, and
within the second district for the collection of internal revenue in that State, that he had not, since the passage of the
act of 1892, applied to the collector of internal revenue of
that district for a certificate of residence, as required by section 6, and was and always had been without such certificate
of residence, and that he was arrested by the marshal,
claiming authority to do so under that section, without any
writ or warrant. The return of the marshal stated that the
petitioner was found by him within the jurisdiction of the
United States, and in the Southern District of New York,
without the certificate of residence required by that section,
that he had therefore arrested him with the purpose and intention of taking him before a United States judge within
that district, and that the petitioner admitted to the marshal,
in reply to questions put through an interpreter, that he was
a Chinese laborer, and was without the required certificate of
residence.
The second petition contained similar allegations, and
further alleged that the petitioner was taken by the marshal
before the District Judge for the Southern District of New
York, and that "the said United States Judge, without any
hearing of any kind, thereupon ordered that your petitioner be
In all cases of loss or destruction of original certificates of residence,
where it can be established to the satisfaction of the collector of the district in which the certificate was issued that such loss or destruction was
accidental, and without fault or negligence on the part of the applicant, a
duplicate of the original may be issued under the same conditions that
governed the original issue.

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

remanded to the custody of the marshal in and for the Southern District of New York, and deported forthwith from the
United States, as is provided in said act of May 5, 1892, all of
which more fully appears by said order, a copy of which is
hereto. annexed and made a part hereof," and which is copied
m the margin 1 and that he was detained by virtue of the
marshal's claim of authority and the judge's order. The
marshal returned that he held the petitioner under that order.
In the third case the petition alleged, and the judge's order
showed, the following state of facts On April 11, 1893, the
petitioner applied to the collector of internal revenue for a
certificate of residence, the collector refused to give him a
certificate, on the ground that the witnesses whom he produced to prove that he was entitled to the certificate were
persons of the Chinese race and not credible witnesses, and
required of him to produce a witness other than a Ohinaman
to prove that he was entitled to the certificate, which he was
unable to do, because there was no person other than one of
1 In the matter of the arrest and deportation of Wong Quan, a Chinese
laborer.
Wong Quan, a Chinese laborer, having been arrested in the city of New
York on the 6th day of May 1893, and brought before me, a United States
Judge, by John W. Jacobus, the marshal of the United States in and for the
Southern District of New York, as being a Chinese laborer found within
the jurisdiction of the United States after the expiration of one year from
the passage of the act of Congress, approved on the 5th day of May, 1892,
and entitled "An act to prohibit the coming of Chinese persons into the
United States," without having the certificate of residence required by said
act; and the said Wong Quan having failed to clearly establish to my satisfaction that by reason of accident, sickness or other unavoidable cause, he
had been unable to procure the said certificate, or that he had procured such
certificate and that the same had been lost or destroyed Now, on motion
of Edward Mitchell, the United States attorney in and for the Southern
District of New York, it is Ordered, that the said Wong Quan be, and he
hereby is, remanded to the custody of the said John W Jacobus, the United
States marshal in and for the Southern District of New York; and it is
further Ordered, that the said Wong Quan be deported from the United
States of America in accordance with the provisions of said act of Congress,
approved on the 5th day of May, 1892.

ADDISON BRowN,
Dated New York, May 6, 1893.
United States District Judge for the Southern Districtof New York.

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the Chinese race who knew and could truthfully swear that
he was lawfully within the United States on May 5, 1892, and
then entitled to remain therein, and because of such unavoidable cause he was unable to produce a certificate of residence,
and was now without one. The petitioner was arrested by the
marshal, and taken before the judge, and clearly established,
to the satisfaction of the judge, that he was unable to procure a certificate of residence, by reason of the unavoidable
cause aforesaid, and also established, to the judge's satisfaction, by the testimony of a Chinese resident of New York,
that the petitioner was a resident of the United States at the
time of the passage of the act, but having failed to establish
this fact clearly to the satisfaction of the court by at least one
credible white witness, as required by the statute, the judge
ordered the petitioner to be remanded to the custody of the
marshal, and to be deported from the United States, as provided in the act.
Each petition alleged that the petitioner was arrested and
detained without due process of law, and that section 6 of the
act of Alay 5, 1892, was unconstitutional and void.
In each case, the Circuit Court, after a hearing upon the
writ of habeas corpus and the return of the marshal, dismissed
the writ of habeas corpus, and allowed an appeal of the petitioner to this court, and admitted him to bail pending the
appeal. All the proceedings, from the arrest to the appeal,
took place on May 6.
Afr Joseph H. Choate and XAb J Hubley Aslton for appellants.
.Mr Maxwell 1varts was on Mr. Choate's brief.
Mr Solicitor General for appellees.
MR. JusTicE GRAY, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The general principles of public law which lie at the foundation of these cases are clearly established by previous judg-

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ments of this court, and by the authorities therein referred
to.
In the recent case of lAish?,mura E/iu v Unted States, 142
U. S. 651, 659, the court, in sustaining the action of the executive department, putting in force an act of Congress for the
exclusion of aliens, said "It is an accepted maxim of international law, that every sovereign nation has the power, as
inherent in sovereignty, and essential to self-preservation, to
forbid the entrance of foreigners within its dominions, or to
admit them only in such cases and upon such conditions as it
may see fit to prescribe. In the United States, this power is
vested in the national government, to wnch the Constitution
has committed the entire control of international relations, in
peace as well as in war. It belongs to the political department of the government, and may be exercised either through
treaties made by the President. and Senate, or through statutes enacted by Congress."
The same views were more fully expounded in the earlier
case of Ohae Chan P-ng v Unted States, 130 U. S. 581, in
which the validity of a former act of Congress, excluding Chinese laborers from the United States, under the circumstances
therein stated, was affirmed.
In the elaborate opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Field, in
behalf of the court, it was said "Those laborers are not citizens of the United States, they are aliens. That the government of the United States, through the action of the legislative
department, can exclude aliens from its territory is a proposition which we do not think open to controversy Jurisdiction
over its own territory to that extent is an incident of every
independent nation. It is a part of its independence. If it
could not exclude aliens, it would be to that extent subject to
the control of another power." "The United States, in their
relation to foreign countries and their subjects or citizens, are
one nation, invested with powers which belong to independent
nations, the exercise of which can be invoked for the maintenance of its absolute independence and security throughout
its entire territory" 130 U. S. 603, 604.
It was also said, repeating the language of Mr. Justice
VOL. CXLIX-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Bradley in Knox v Zee, 12 Wall. 457, 555 "The United
States is not only a government, but it is a national government, and the only government in this country that has the
character of nationality It is invested with power over all
the foreign relations of the country, war, peace, and negotiations and intercourse with other nations, all of which axe forbidden to the state governments." 130 U S. 605. And it
was added "For local interests the several States of the
Union exist, but for international purposes, embracing our
relations with foreign nations, we are but one people, one
nation, one power." 130 U. S. 606.
The court then went on to say "To preserve its independence, and give security against foreign aggression and
encroachment, is the highest duty of every nation, and to
attain these ends nearly all other considerations are to be subordinated. It matters not in-what form such aggression and
encroachment come, whether from the foreign nation acting
in its national character, or from vast hordes of its people
crowding in upon us. The government, possessing the powers
which are to be exercised for protection and security, is
clothed with authority to determine the occasion on which
the powers shall be called forth, and its determination, so far
as the subjects affected are concerned, is necessarily conclusive
upon all its departments and officers. If, therefore, the government of the Uuited States, through its legislative department, considers the presence of foreigners of a different race
in this country, who will not assimilate with us, to be dangerous to its peace and security, their exclusion is not to be
stayed because at the time there are no actual hostilities with
the nation of which the foreigners are subjects. The existence
of war would render the necessity of the proceeding only
more obvious and pressing. The same necessity, in a less
pressing degree, may arise when war does not exist, and the
same authority which adjudges the necessity in one case must
also determme it in the other. In both cases, its determination isconclusive upon the judiciary If the government of
the country of which the foreigners excluded are subjects is
dissatisfied -with this action, it can make complaint to the

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

executive head of our government, or resort to any other
measure which, in its judgment, its interests or dignity may
demand, and there lies its only remedy The power of the
government to exclude foreigners from the country, whenever,
in its judgment, the public interests require such exclusion,
has been asserted m repeated instances, and never demed by
the executive or legislative departments." 130 U. S. 606, 607.
This statement was supported by many citations from the
diplomatic correspondence of successive Secretaries of State,
collected in Wharton's International Law Digest, § 206.
The right of a nation to expel or deport foreigners, who
have not been naturalized or taken any steps towards becoming citizens of the country, rests upon the same grounds, and
is as absolute and unqualified as the right to prohibit and prevent their entrance into the country
This is clearly affirmed in dispatches referred to by the
court in Chao Chan Png'scase. In 1856, Mr. Marcy wrote
"Every society possesses the undoubted right to determine
who shall compose its members, and it is exercised by all
nations, both m peace and war. A memorable example of
the exercise of this power in time of peace was the passage of
the alien law of the United States in the year 1798." In
1869, Mr. Fish wrote "The control of the people within its
limits, and the right to expel from its territory persons who
are dangerous to the peace of the State, are too clearly within
the essential attributes of sovereignty to be seriously contested." Wharton's International Law Digest, § 206, 130
1J. S.607.
The statements of leading commentators on the law of
nations are to the same effect.
Vattel says "Every nation has the right to refuse to admit
a foreigner into the country, when he cannot enter without
putting the nation in evident danger, or doing it a manifest
injury What it owes to itself, the care of its own safety,
gives it this right, and in virtue of its natural liberty, it belongs to the nation to judge whether its circumstances will or
will not justify the admission of the foreigner." "Thus, also,
it has a right to send them elsewhere, if it has just cause to

OCTOBER TERMI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

fear that they will corrupt the manners of the citizens, that
they will create religious disturbances, or occasion any other
disorder, contrary to the public safety In a word, it has a
right, and is even obliged, in this respect, to follow the rules
which prudence dictates." Vattel's Law of Nations, lib. 1, c.

19, §§ 230, 231.
Ortolan says "The government of each state has always
the right to compel foreigners who are found within its territory to go away, by having them taken to the frontier.
This right is based on the fact that, the foreigner not making
part of the nation, his individual reception into the territory
is matter of pure permission, of simple tolerance, and creates
no obligation. The exercise of this right may be subjected,
doubtless, to certain forms by the domestic laws of each
country, but the right exists none the less, universally recognized and put in force. In France, no special form is now
prescribed in this matter, the exercise of this right of expulsion is wholly left to the executive power." Ortolan, Diplomatie de la Mer, lib. 2, c. 14. (4th ed.) p. 297.
Phillimore says "It is a received maxim of international
law, that the government of a state may prohibit the entrance of strangers into the country, and may therefore regulate the conditions under which they shall be allowed to
remain in it. or may require and compel their departure from
,it." 1 Phillimore's International Law, (3d ed.) c. 10, § 220.
Bar says "Banishment and extradition must not be confounded. The former is simply a question of expediency and
humanity, since no state is bound to receive all foreigners,
although, perhaps, to exclude all would be to say good-bye to
the international union of all civilized states, and although in
some states, such as England, strangers can only be expelled
by means of special acts of the legislative power, no state has
renounced its right to expel them, as is shown by the alien
bills which the government of England has at times used to
invest itself with the right of expulsion." "Banishment is
regulated by rules of expediency and humanity, and is a
matter for the police of the state. No doubt the police can
apprehend any foreigner who refuses to quit the country in

FONG YUE TING v. UIITED STATES.

709,

Opinion of the Court.

spite of authoritative orders to do so, and convey him to the
frontier." Bar's International Law, (Gillespie's ed. 1883) 708
note, 711.
In the passages just quoted from Gillespie's translation of
Bar, "banishment" is evidently used in the sense of expulsion
or deportation by the political authority on the ground of
expediency, and not in the sense of transportation or exile by
way of punishment for crime. Strictly speaking, "transportation," "extradition" and "deportation," although each has
the effect of removing a person from the country, are different
things, and have different purposes. "Transportation" is by
way of pumshment of one convicted of an offence agamst the
laws of the country
"Extradition" is the surrender to
another country of one accused of an offence against its laws,
there to be tried, and, if found guilty, punished. "Deporta-.
tion" is the removal of an alien out of the country, simply
because his presence is deemed inconsistent with the public:
welfare, and without any punishment being imposed or con,
templated, either under the laws of the country out of which
he is sent, or under those of the country to which he is taken.
in England, the only question that has ever been made in
regard to the power to expel aliens has been whether it could
be exercised by the King without the consent of Parliament.
It was formerly exercised by the King, but in later times by
Parliament, which passed several acts on the subject between
1793 and 1848. 2 Inst. 57, 1 Chalmers Opinions, 26, 1 BI.
Com. 260, Chitty on the Prerogative, 49, 1 Phillimore, c. 10,
220 and note, 30 Parl. Hist. 157, 167, 188, 217, 229, 34
Hansard Parl. Deb. (1st series) 441, 445, 471, 1065-1071, 6.
Law Quart. Rev 27.
Eminent English judges, sitting in the Judicial Committee.
of the Privy Council, have gone very far in supporting the exclusion or expulsion, by the executive authority of a colony,
of aliens having no absolute right to enter its territory or,
to remain therein.
In 1837, in a case arising in the Island of Mauritius, which.
had been conquered by Great Britain from France in 1810,
and in which the law of France continued in force, Lord

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Lyndhurst, Lord Brougham and Justices Bosanquet and
Erskine, although considering it a case of great hardship,
sustained the validity of an order of the English governor,
deporting a friendly alien who had long resided and carried
on business in the island, and had enjoyed the privileges and
exercised the rights of a person duly domiciled, but who had
not, as required by the French law, obtained from the colonial
government formal and express authority to establish a domicil
there. I 're Adam, 1 Moore P C. 460.
In a recent appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Colony of Victoria, a collector of customs, sued by a
Chinese inmigrant for preventing him from landing in the
colony, had pleaded a justification under the order of a colonial minister claiming to exercise an alleged prerogative of
the Crown to exclude alien friends, and denied the right of a
court of law to examine his action, on the ground that what
he had done was an act of state, and the plaintiff had demurred to the plea. Lord Chancellor Halsbury, speaking for
himself, for Lord Herschell (now Lord Chancellor) and for
other lords, after deciding against the plaintiff on a question
of statutory construction, took occasion to observe "The
facts appearing on the record raise, quite apart from the
statutes referred to, a grave question as to the plaintiff's right
to maintain the action. He can only do so if he can establish
that an alien has a legal right, enforceable by action, to enter
British territory No authority exists for the proposition that
an alien has any such right. Circumstances may occur in
which the refusal to permit an alien to land might be such an
interference with international comity as would properly give
rise to diplomatic remonstrance from the country of which he
was a native, but it is quite another thing to assert that an
alien, excluded from any part of ]her Majesty's dominions by
the executive government there, can maintain an action in a
British court, and raise such questions as were argued before
their lordships on the present appeal -whether the proper
officer for giving or refusing access to the country has been
duly authorized by his own colonial government, whether the
colonial government has received sufficient delegated authority

FONG YU-E TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

from the Crown to exercise the authority which the Crown
had a right to exercise through the colonial government if
properly communicated to it, and whether the Crown has the
right without parliamentary authority to exclude an alien.
Their lordships cannot assent to the proposition that an alien
refused permission to enter British territory can, in an action
in a British court, compel the decision of such matters as these,
involving delicate and difficult constitutional questions affecting the respective rights of the Crown and Parliament, and
the relations of this country to her self-governing colonies.
When once it is admitted that there is no absolute and unqualified right of action on behalf of an alien refused admission to British territory, their lordships are of opinion that
it would be impossible, upon the facts which the demurrer
admits, for an alien to maintain an action." -Musgrovev. Chun
Teeong Toy, App. Cas. (1891) 272, 282, 283.
The right to exclude or to expel all aliens, or any class of
aliens, absolutely or upon certain conditions, in war or in
peace, being an inherent and inalienable right of every sovereign and independent nation, essential to its safety, its independence and its welfare, the question now before the court
is whether the manner in which Congress has exercised this
right in sections 6 and 7 of the act of 1892 is consistent with
the Constitution.
The United States are a sovereign and independent nation,
and are vested by the Constitution with the entire control of
international relations. and with all the powers of government necessary to maintain that control and to make it
effective. The only government of this country, which other
nations recognize or treat with, is the government of the
Union, and the only American flag known throughout the
world is the flag of the United States.
The Constitution of the United States speaks with no uncertain sound upon this subject. That instrument, established
by the people of the United States as the fundamental law of
the land, has conferred upon the President the executive
power, has made him the commander-in-chief of the army
and navy; has authorized him, by and with the consent of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Senate, to make treaties, and to appoint ambassadors, public
ministers and consuls, and has made it his duty to take care
that the laws be faithfully executed. The Constitution has
granted to Congress the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, including the entrance of ships, the importation of goods and the bringing of persons into the ports of
the United States, to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on
the high seas, and offences against the law of nations, to declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make
rules concerning captures on land and water, to raise and
support armies, to provide and maintain a navy, and to make
rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval
forces, and to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution these powers, and all other powers vested
by the Constitution in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof. And the several
States are expressly forbidden to enter into any treaty, alliance or confederation, to grant letters of marque and reprisal, to enter into any agreement or compact with another
State, or with a foreign power, or to engage in war, unless
actually invaded, or m such imminent danger as will not
admit of delay
In exercising the great power which the people of the
United States, by establishing a written Constitution as the
supreme and paramount law, have vested in this court, of
determining, whenever the question is properly brought before it, whether the acts of the legislature or of the executive
are consistent with the Constitution, it behooves the court to
be careful that it does not undertake to pass upon political
questions, the final decision of which has been committed by
the Constitution to the other departments of the government.
As long ago said by Chief Justice Marshall, and since constantly maintained by this court "The sound construction of
the Constitution must allow to the national legislature that
discretion, with respect to the means by which the powers it
confers are to be carried into execution, which will enable
that body to perform the high duties assigned to it, in the

FO1G YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

manner most beneficial to the people. Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and all
means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to
that end, which are not prohibited, but consistent with the
letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
"Where the law is not prohibited, and is really calculated to
effect any of the objects intrusted to the government, to
undertake here to inquire into the degree of its necessity
would be to pass the line which circumscribes the judicial department, and to tread on legislative ground. This court
disclaims all pretensions to such a power." "M:Cullochv
Aaryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421, 423, Juilliard v Greenman,
110 U. S. 421, 440, 450, Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651,
658, In re Rapter, 143 U S. 110, 134, Logan v United
States, 144 U S. 263, 283.
The power to exclude or to expel aliens, being a power
affecting international relations, is vested in the political departments of the government, and is to be regulated by treaty
or by act of Congress, and to be executed by the executive
authority according to the regulations so established, except
so far as the judicial department has been authorized by treaty
or by statute, or is required by the paramount law of the
Constitution, to intervene.
In _JAisk tmura Pknu's case, it was adjudged that, although
Congress might, if it saw fit, authorize the courts to investigate and ascertain the facts upon which the alien's right to
land was made by the statutes to depend, yet Congress might
intrust the-final determination of those facts to an executive
officer, and that, if it did so, his order was due process of law,
and no other tribunal, unless expressly authorized by law to
do so, was at liberty to reexamine the evidence on which he
acted, or to controvert its sufficiency 142 U S. 660.
The power to exclude aliens and the power to expel them
rest upon one foundation, are derived from one source, are
supported by the same reasons, and are in truth but parts of
one and the same power.
The power of Congress, therefore, to expel, like the power
to exclude aliens, or any specified class of aliens, from the

711

OCTOBER TERMt, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

country, may be exercised entirely through executive officers,
or Congress may call in the aid of the judiciary to ascertain
any contested facts on which an alien's right to be in the
country has been made by Congress to depend.
Congress, having the right, as it may see fit, to expel aliens
of a particular class, or to permit them to remain, has undoubtedly the right to provide a system of registration and
identification of the members of that class within the country,
and to take all proper means to carry out the system which it
provides.
It is no new thing for the law-making power, acting either
through treaties made by the President and Senate, or by the
more common method of acts of Congress, to submit the decision of questions, not necessarily of judicial cognizance,
either to the final determination of executive officers, or to
the decision of such officers in the first instance, with such
opportunity for judicial review of their action as Congress
may see fit to authorize or permit.
For instance, the surrender, pursuant to treaty stipulations,
of persons residing or found in this country, and charged with
crime in another, may be made by the executive authority of
the President alone, when no provision has been made by
treaty or by statute for an examination of the case by a judge
or magistrate. Such was the case of Jonathan Robbins,
under article 27 of the Treaty with Great Britain of 1794, in
which the President's power in tins regard was demonstrated
in the masterly and conclusive argument of John M-arshall in
the House of Representatives. 8 Stat. 129, Wharton's State
Trials, 392, Bee, 286, 5 Wheat. appx. 3. But provision may
be made, as it has been by later acts of Congress, for a preliminary examination before a judge or commissioner, and in
such case the sufficiency of the evidence on which he acts
cannot be reviewed by any other tribunal, except as permitted
by statute. Act of August 12, 1848, c. 167, 9 Stat. 302, Rev.
Stat. §§ 5270-5274, Ex parte Mletzger, 5 How 176, Benson
v .MeMahon, 127 U S. 457, In re Otezza, 136 U S. 330.
So claims to recover back duties illegally exacted on imports
may, if Congress so provides, be finally determined by the

FON1G YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of the Treasury Cary v Curtis, 3 How 236,
Curtis v Fiedler,2 Black, 461, 478, 479, Arnsozn v. Jiurphy,
109 U. S. 238, 240. But Congress may, as it did for long
periods, permit them to be tried by suit against the collector
of customs. Or it may, as by the existing statutes, provide
for their determination by a board of general appraisers, and
allow the decisions of that board to be reviewed by the courts
in such particulars only as may be prescribed by law Act of
June 10, 1890, c. 407, §§ 14, 15, 25, 26 Stat. 137, 138, 141, In.
re Fassett, 142 U. S. 479,486, 487, Passavantv Unt'ed States,
148 U. S.214.
To repeat the careful and weighty words uttered by Mr. Justice Curtis, in delivering a unanimous judgment of this court
upon the question what is due process of law" "To avoid misconstruction upon so grave a subject, we think it proper to state
that we do not consider Congress can either withdraw from
judicial cogznzance any matter which, from its nature, is the
subject of a suit at the common law, or in equity, or admiralty, nor, on the other hand, can -it bring under the judicial
power a matter which, from its nature, is not a subject for judicial determination. At the same time, there are matters,
involving public rights, which may be presented in such form
that the judicial power is capable of acting on them, and
which are susceptible of judicial determination, but which
Congress may or may not bring within the cognizance of the
courts of the United States, as it may deem proper." 2lurray v -o boken Co., 18 How 272, 284.
Before examining in detail the provisions of the act of 1892
now in question, it will be convenient to refer to the previous
statutes, treaties and decisions upon this subject.
The act of Congress of July 27, 1868, c. 249, (regnacted in
sections 1999-2001 of the Revised Statutes,) began with these
recitals "Whereas the right of expatriation is a natural and
inherent right of all people, indispensable to the enjoyment
of the rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and
whereas in the recognition of this principle this government
has freely received emigrants from all nations, and invested
them with the rights of citizenship." It then declared that

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

any order or decision of any officer of the United States to
the contrary was inconsistent with the fundamental principles
of this government, enacted that "all naturalized citizens of
the United States, while in foreign states, shall be entitled to
and shall receive from this government the same protection of
persons and property that is accorded to native-born citizens
in like situations and circumstances," and made it the duty
of the President to take measures to protect the rights in that
respect of "any citizen of the United States." 15 Stat. 223,
224.
That act, like any other, is subject to alteration by Congress whenever the public welfare requires it. The right of
protection which it confers is limited to citizens of the United
States. Chinese persons not born in this country have never
been recognized as citizens of the United States, nor authorized to become such under the naturalization laws. Rev
Stat. (2d ed.) §§ 2165, 2169, Acts of April 14, 1802, c. 28, 2
Stat. 153, May 26, 1824, c. 186, 4 Stat. 69, July 14, 1870,
c. 254, § 7, 16 Stat. 256, February 18, 1875, c. 80, 18 Stat.
318, In re Ah Yup, 5 Sawyer, 155, Act of May 6, 1882,
c. 126, § 14, 22 Stat. 61.
The treaty made between the United States and China on
July 28, 1868, contained the following stipulations
"ARTICLE

V

The United States of America and the

Emperor of China cordially recognize the inherent and
inalienable right of man to change his home and allegiance,
and also the mutual advantage of the free migration and
emigration of their citizens and subjects, respectively, from
one country to the other, for purposes of curiosity, of trade,
or as permanent residents."
" ARTICLE VI. Citizens of the United States visiting or residing in China," "and reciprocally, Chinese subjects visiting
or residing in the United States, shall enjoy the same privileges, immunities and exemptions, in respect to travel or residence, as may there be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of
the most favored nation. But nothing herein contained shall be
held to confer naturalization upon citizens of the United States
in China, nor upon the subjects of China in the United States."

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

After some years' experience under that treaty, the government of the United States was brought to the opinion that
the presence within our territory of large numbers of Chinese
laborers, of a distinct race and religion, remaimng strangers
in the land, residing apart by themselves, tenaciously adhering to the customs and usages of their own country, unfamiliar
with our institutions, and apparently incapable of assimilating
with our people, might endanger good order, and be injurious
to the public interests, and therefore requested and obtained
from China a modification of the treaty
Chew Ieong v
United States, 112 U. S. 536, 542, 543, Chao C/an Ptng
v United States, 130 U S. 581, 595, 596.
On November 17, 1880, a supplemental treaty was accordingly concluded between the two countries, which contained
the following preamble and stipulations
"Whereas the government of the United States, because of
the constantly increasing immigration of Chinese laborers to
the territory of the United States, and the embarrassments
consequent upon such immigration, now desires to negotiate
a modification of the existing treaties which shall not be in
direct contravention of their spirit "
"ARTIcLE I. Whenever, in the opinion of the government
of the United States, the coming of the Chinese laborers to
the United States, or their residence therein, affects or
threatens to affect the interests of that country, or to
endanger the good order of the said country, or of any
locality within the territory thereof, the government of China
agrees that the government of the United States may
regulate, limit or suspend such coming or residence, but mar
not absolutely prohibit it. The limitation or suspension shal
be reasonable, and shall apply only to Chinese who may go to
the United States as laborers, other classes not being included
in the limitations. Legislation taken in regard to Chinese
laborers will be of such a character only as is necessary to
enforce the regulation, limitation or suspension of immigration, and immigrants shall not be subject to personal maltreatment or abuse.
"AniTIcLE II. Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

United States as teachers, students, merchants or from

curiosity, together with their body and household servants,
and Chinese laborers who are now m the United States, shall
be allowed to go and come of their own free will and accord,
and shall be accorded all the rights, privileges, immunities
and exemptions which are accorded to the citizens and
subjects of the most favored nation.
"1ARTIcLE III. If Chinese laborers, or Chinese of any other
class, now either permanently or temporarily residing in the
territory of the Unitea States, meet with ill treatment at the
hands of any other persons, the government of the United
States will exert all its power to devise measures for their
protection, and to secure to them the same rights, privileges,
immunities and exemptions as may be enjoyed by the citizens
or subjects of the most favored nation, and to which they are
entitled by treaty" 22 Stat. 826, 827.
The act of May 6, 1882, c. 126, entitled "An act to execute
certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese," and amended
by the act of July 5,1884, c. 220, began with the recital that,
"in the opinion of the government of the United States, the
coming of Chinese laborers to this country endangers the
good order of certain localities within the territories thereof,"
and, in section 1, suspended their coming for ten years, and
enacted that it should "not be lawful for any Chinese laborer
to come from any foreign port or place, or, having so come,
to remain within the United States," in section 3,that this
provision should not apply to Chinese laborers who were in
the United States on November 17, 1880, or who came here
within ninety days after the passage of the act of 1882, and
who should produce evidence of that fact, as afterwards
required by the act, to the master of the vessel and to the
collector of the port, and, in section 4, that "for the purpose
of properly identifying Chinese laborers who were in the
United States" at such time, "and in order to furnish them
with the proper evidence of their right to go from and come
to the United States," as provided by that act and by the
treaty of November 17, 1880, the collector of customs of the
district, from which any Chinese laborers should depart from

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

I

the United States by sea, should go on board the vessel, and
make and register a list of them, with all facts necessary
for their identity, and should give to each a corresponding
certificate, which should entitle hun "to return to and regnter
the United States, upon producing and delivering the same to
the collector of customs," to be cancelled. The form of
certificate prescribed by the act of 1884 differed in some
particulars from that prescribed by the act of 1882, and the
act of 1884 added that "said certificate shall be the only
evidence to establish Ins right of reentry" Each act further
enacted, in section 5, that any such Chinese laborer, being in
the United States and desiring to depart by land, should be
entitled to a like certificate of identity, and in section 12,
that no Chinese person should be permitted to enter the
United States by land, without producing such a certificate,
and that "any Chinese person found unlawfully within the
United States shall be caused to be removed therefrom to the
country from whence he came, and at the cost of the United
States, after being brought before some justice, judge or
commissioner of a court of the United States, and found to be
one not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United States."
The act of 1884 further enacted, in section 16, that a violation
of any of the provisions of the act, the punishment of which
was not therein otherwise provided for, should be deemed a
misdemeanor, and be punishable by fine not exceeding $1000,
or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. 22 Stat. 58-60, 23 Stat. 115118.
Under those acts, this court held, m Chew Heong v United
States, 112 U. S. 536, that the clause of section 4 of the act
of 1884, making the certificate of identity the only evidence to establish a right to regnter the United States, was
not applicable to a Chinese laborer who resided in the United
States at the date of the treaty of 1880, departed by sea before
the passage of the act of 1882, remained out of the United
States until after the passage of the act of 1884, and then
returned by sea, and in Unded States v Yung AA Lung, 124:
U. S. 621, that a Chinese laborer, who resided m the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

States at the date of the treaty of 1880, and until 1883, when
he left San Francisco for China, taking with him a certificate
of identity from the collector of the port in the form provided by the act of 1882, which was stolen from him in
China, was entitled to land again in the United States in 1885,
on proving by other evidence these facts, and his identity with
the person described in the register kept by the collector of
customs as the one to whom that certificate was issued.
Both those decisions proceeded upon a consideration of the
various provisions of the acts of 1882 and 1884, giving weight
to the presumption that they should not, unless unavoidably,
be construed as operating retrospectively, or as contravening
the stipulations of the treaty In the first of those cases
Justices Field and Bradley, and in the second case Justices
Field, Harlan and Lamar, dissented from the judgment, being
of opinion that the necessary construction of those acts was
against the Chinese laborer. And in none of the opinions in
either case was it suggested that the acts in question, if construed as contended by the United States, and so as to contravene the treaty, would be unconstitutional or inoperative.
In our jurisprudence, it is well settled that the provisions of
an act of Congress, passed in the exercise of its constitutional
authority, on this, as on any other subject, if clear and explicit,
must be upheld by the courts, even in contravention of express
stipulations in an earlier treaty As was said by this court in
Mlae Macn Pyng's case, following previous decisions "The
treaties were of no greater legal obligation than the act of
Congress. By the Constitution, laws made in pursuance
thereof and treaties made under the authority of the United
States are both declared to be the supreme law of the land,
and no paramount authority is given to one over the other.
A treaty, it is true, is in its nature a contract between nations,
and is often merely promissory in its character, requiring legislation to carry its stipulations into effect. Such legislation
will be open to future repeal or amendment. If the treaty
operates by its own force, and relates to a subject within the
power of Congress, it can be deemed in that particular only
the equivalent of a legislative act, to be repealed or modi-

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

fled at the pleasure of Congress. In either case, the last
expression of the sovereign will must control." " So far as a
treaty made by the United States with any foreign nation
can become the subject of judicial cognizance m the courts
of tis country, it is subject to such acts as Congress may pass
for its enforcement, modification or repeal." 130 U. S. 600.
See also Foster v YTeilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314, Eye v Robertson.,
112 U. S. 580, 597-599 Whtney v Robertson, 124 U S.
190.

By the supplementary act of October 1, 1888, c. 1061, it
was enacted, in section 1, that "from and after the passage
of this act, it shall be unlawful for any Chinese laborer, who
shall at any time heretofore have been, or who may now or
hereafter be, a resident within the United States, and who
shall have departed or shall depart therefrom, and shall not
have returned before the passage of this act, to return to, or
remain in, the United States;" and m section 2, that "no certificates of identity, provided for in the fourth and fifth sections of the act to which this is a supplement, shall hereafter
be issued, and every certificate heretofore issued in pursuance
thereof is hereby declared void and of no effect, and the Chinese laborer claiming admission by virtue thereof shall not be
permitted to enter the United States." 25 Stat. 504.
In the case of Chae /ian Ping, already often referred to,
a Chinese laborer, who had resided m San Francisco from
1875 until June 2, 1887, when he left that port for China, having m Ins possession a certificate issued to him on that day by
the collector of customs, according to the act of 1884, and in
terms entitling hn to return to the United States, returned
to the same port on October 8, 1888, and was refused by the
collector permission to land, because of the provisions of the
act of October 1, 1888, above cited. It was strongly contended in his behalf, that by his residence in the United
States for twelve years preceding June 2, 1887, in accordance
with the fifth article of the treaty of 1868, he had now a lawful right to be in the United States, and had a vested right
to return to the United States, which could not be taken
from him by any exercise of mere legislative power by ConvoL. c=-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

gress, that he had acquired such a right by contract between
hn and the United States, by virtue of his acceptance of the
offer, contained in the acts of 1882 and 1881, to every Chinese
person then here, if he should leave the country complying
with specified conditions, to permit him to return, that, as
applied to him, the act of 1888 was unconstitutional, as being
a bill of attainder and an ex _ost facto law, and that the
depriving him of his right to return was punishment, which
could not be nfflicted except by judicial sentence. The contention was thus summed up at the beginning of the opinion
"The validity of the act is assailed as being in effect an expulsion from the country of Chinese laborers, m violation of
existing treaties between the United States and the government of China, and of rights vested in them under the laws
of Congress." 130 U. S. 584-589.
Yet the court unanimously held that the statute of 1888 was
constitutional, and that the action of the collector in refusing
him permission to land was lawful, and, after the passages
already quoted, said "The power of exclusion of foreigners
being an incident of sovereignty belonging to the government
of the United States, as a part of those sovereign powers delegated by the Constitution, the right to its exercise at any time
when, in the judgment of the government, the interests of the
country require it, cannot be granted away or restrained on
behalf of any one. The powers of government are delegated
in trust to the United States, and are incapable of transfer to
any other parties. They cannot be abandoned or surrendered.
Nor can their exercise be hampered, when needed for the
public good, by any considerations of private interest. The
exercise of these public trusts is not the subject of barter or
contract. Whatever license, therefore, Chinese laborers may
have obtained, previous to the act of October 1, 1888, to
return to the United States after their departure, is held at
the will of the government, revocable at any time, at its
pleasure." "The rights and interests created by a treaty,
which have become so vested that its expiration or abrogation
will not destroy or impair them, are such as are connected
with and lie in property, capable of sale and transfer or other

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

disposition, not such as are personal and untransferable in
their character." "But far different is this case, where a
continued suspension of the exercise of a governmental power
is insisted upon as a right, because, by the favor and consent
of the government, it has not heretofore been exerted with
respect to the appellant or to the class to which he belongs.
Between property rights not affected by the termination or
abrogation of a treaty, and expectations of benefits from the
continuance of existing legislation, there is as wide a difference as between realization and hopes." 130 U. S. 609, 610.
It thus appears that m that case it was directly adjudged,
upon full argument and consideration, that a Chinese laborer,
who had been admitted into the United States while the
treaty of 1868 was in force, by which the United States and
China "cordially recognize the inherent and inalienable right
of man to change Ins home and allegiance, and also the
mutual advantage of the free migration and emigration of
their citizens and subjects, respectively, from one country to
the other," not only for the purpose of curiosity or of trade,
but "as permanent residents," and who had continued to
reside here for twelve years, and who had then gone back to
China, after receiving a certificate, in the form provided by
act of Congress, entitling hun to return to the United States,
might be refused re-admission into the United States, without
judicial trial or hearing, and snnply by reason of another act
of Congress, passed during his absence, and declaring all such
certificates to be void, and prohibiting all Chinese laborers
who had at any time been residents in the United States, and
had departed therefrom and not returned before the passage
of this act, from coming into the United States.
In view of that decision, which, as before observed, was a
unanimous judgment of the court, and which had the concurrence of all the justices who had delivered opinions in the
cases arising under the acts of 1882 and 1884, it appears to be
impossible to hold that a Chinese laborer acquired, under any
of the treaties or acts of Congress, any right, as a denizen or
otherwise, to be and remain in this country, except by the
license, permission and sufferance of Congress, to be with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

drawn whenever, in its opinion, the public welfare might
require it.
By the law of nations, doubtless, aliens residing in a
country, with the intention of malung it a permanent place of
abode, acqire, in one sense, a domicil there, and, while they
are permitted by the nation to retain such a residence and
domicil, are subject to its laws, and may invoke its protection
against other nations. This is recognized by those publicists
who, as has been seen, maintain in the strongest terms the
right of the nation to expel any or all aliens at its pleasure.
Yattel, lib. 1, c. 19, § 213, 1 Phillimore, c. 18, § 321, Mr.
Marcy, in Jfoszta's case, Wharton's International Law Digest,
§ 198. See also Law Ow Bew v Untted States, 144 U S. 47,
62, Merlin, Repertoire de Jurisprudence, Domicile, § 13,
quoted in the case, above cited, of 1n. re Adam, 1 Moore P C.
460, 472, 473.
Chinese laborers, therefore, like all other aliens residing in
the United States for a shorter or longer time, are entitled,
so long as they are permitted by the government of the
United States to, remain in the country, to the safeguards of
the Constitution, and to the protection of the laws, in regard
to their rights of person and of property, and to their civil
and criminal responsibility But they continue to be aliens,
having taken no steps towards becoming citizens, and incapable of becoming such under the naturalization laws, and
therefore remain subject to the power of Congress to expel
them, or to order them to be removed and deported from the
country, whenever in its judgment their removal is necessary
or expedient for the public interest.
Nothing inconsistent with these views was decided or
suggested by the court in CIty Lung v Freeman, 92 U. S.
275, or in Yick
v llopkms,
_o
118 U S. 356, cited for the
appellants.
In Chy Lung v. Freeman, a statute of the State of California,
restricting the immigration of Chinese persons, was held to
be unconstitutional and void, because it contravened the grant
in the Constitution to CongTess of the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations.

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

In Yiek "1To v Hopqmn, the point decided was that the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, forbidding any State to deprve any person of life,
liberty or property without due process of law or to deny to
any person withm its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws, was violated by a municipal ordinance of San Francisco,
which conferred upon the board of supervisors arbitrary
power, without regard to competency of persons or to fitness
of places, to grant or refuse licenses to carry on public
laundries, and which was executed by the supervisors by
refusing licenses to all Chinese residents, and grantnmg them
to other persons under like circumstances. The question there
was of the power of a State over aliens continuing to reside
within its jurisdiction, not of the power of the United States
to put an end to their residence in the country
The act of Mlay 5, 1892, c. 60, is entitled "An act to prohibit
the coming of Chinese persons into the United States", and
provides, in section 1, that "all laws now in force, prohibiting
and regulating the coming into this country of Chinese persons and persons of Chinese descent, are hereby continued in
force for a period of ten years from the passage of this
act."
The rest of the act (laying aside, as immaterial, section 5,
relating to an application.for a writ of habeas corpus "by a
Chinese person seeking to land in the United States, to whom
that privilege has been denied,") deals with two classes of
Chinese persons, first, those "not lawfully entitled to be or
remain in the United States," and second, those "entitled to
remain in the United States." These words of description
neither confer nor take away any right, but simply designate
the Chinese persons who were not, or who were, authorized or
permitted to remain in the United States under the laws and
treaties existing at the time of the passage of this act, but
subject, nevertheless, to the power of the United States,
absolutely or conditionally, to withdraw the permission and
to terminate the authority to remain.
Sections 2-4 concern Chinese "not lawfully entitled to be
or remain in the United States;" and provide that, after trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

before a justice, judge or commissioner, a "Chinese person, or person of Chinese descent, convicted and adjudged
to be not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United
States," shall be unprisoned at hard labor for not more than a
year, and be afterwards removed to China or other country
of which he appears to be a citizen or subject.
The subsequent sections relate to Chinese laborers "entitled
to remain in the United States" under previous laws. Sections 6 and 7 are the only sections which have any bearing on
the cases before us, and the only ones, therefore, the construction or effect of which need now be considered.
The manifest objects of these sections are to provide a system of registration and identification of such Chinese laborers,
to require them to obtain certificates of residence, and, if they
do not do so within a year, to have them deported from the
United States.
Section 6, in the first place, provides that "it shall be the
duty of all Chinese laborers, within the limits of the United
States at the time of the passage of this act, and who are entitled to remain in the United States, to apply to the collector of
internal revenue of their respective districts, within one year
after the passage of this act, for a certificate of residence."
This provision, by making it the dutty of the Chinese laborer
to apply to the collector of internal revenue of the district for
a certificate, necessarily implies a correlative duty of the collector to grant him a certificate, upon due proof of the requisite facts. What this proof shall be is not defined in the statute, but is committed to the supervision of the Secretary of
the Treasury by section 7, which directs hun to make such
rules and regulations as may be necessary for the efficient
execution of the act, to prescribe the necessary forms, and to
make such provisions that certificates may be procured in localities convenient to the applicants, and without charge to
them, and the Secretary of the Treasury has, by such rules
and regulations, provided that the fact of residence shall be
proved by "at least one credible witness of good character,"
or, in case of necessity, by other proof. The statute and the
regulations, in order to make sure that every such Chinese

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

laborer may have a certificate, m the nature of a passport,
with which he may go into any part of the United States, and
that the United States may preserve a record of all such certificates issued, direct that a duplicate of each certificate shall
be recorded m the office of the collector who granted it, and
may be issued to the laborer upon proof of loss or destruction
of his original certificate. There can be no doubt of the validity of these provisions and regulations, unless they are invalidated by the other provisions of section 6.
This section proceeds to enact that any Chinese laborer
within the limits of the United States, who shall neglect, fail
or refuse to apply for a certificate of residence witlnn the year,
or who shall afterwards be found within the jurisdiction of
the United States without such a certificate, "shall be deemed
and adjudged to be unlawfully within the United States."
The meaning of this clause, as shown by those which follow,
is not that this fact shall thereupon be held to be conclusively
established against him, but only that the want of a certificate
shall beprzmmafacw evidence that he is not entitled to remain in the United States, for the section goes on to direct
that he "may be arrested by any customs official, collector of
internal revenue or his deputies, United States marshal or his
deputies, and taken before a United States judge;" and that
it shall thereupon be the duty of the judge to order that the
laborer "be deported from the United States " to China, (or to
any other country which he is a citizen or subject of, and which
does not demand any tax as a condition of his removal to it,)
"unless he shall establish clearly, to the satisfaction of said
judge, that by reason of accident, sickness or other unavoidable cause, he has been unable to procure his certificate, and
to the satisfaction of the court, and by at least one credible
white witness, that he was a resident of the United States at
the time of the passage of this act, and if, upon the hearing,
it shall appear that he is so entitled to a certificate, it shall be
granted upon his paying the cost. Should it appear that said
Chinaman had procured a certificate which has been lost or
destroyed, he shall be detained and judgment suspended a
reasonable time to enable him to procure a duplicate from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

officer granting it, and in such cases the cost of said arrest
and trial shall be in the discretion of the court."
For the reasons stated in the earlier part of this opinion,
Congress, under the power to exclude or expel aliens, might
have directed any Chinese laborer, found in the United States
without a certificate of residence, to be removed out of the
country by executive officers, without judicial trial or examination, just as it might have authorized such officers
absolutely to prevent his entrance into the country
But
Congress has not undertaken to do this.
The effect of the provisions of section 6 of the act of 1892
is that, if a Chinese Iaborer, after the opportunity afforded
him to obtain a certificate of residence within a year, at a
convenient place, and without cost, is found without such a
certificate, he shall be so far presumed to be not entitled to
remain within the United States, that an officer of the customs, or a collector of internal revenue, or a marshal, or a
deputy of either, may arrest him, not with a view to imprisonment or punishment, or to his immediate deportation
without further inquiry, but in order to take him before a
judge, for the purpose of a judicial hearing and determination
of the only facts which, under the act of Congress, can have a
material bearing upon the question whether he shall be sent
out of the country, or be permitted to remain.
The powers and duties of the executive officers named
being ordinarily limited to their own districts, the reasonable
inference is that they must take him before a judge within
the same judicial district, and such was the course pursued
in the cases before us.
The designation of the judge, in general terms, as "a
United States judge," is an apt and sufficient description of a
judge of a court of the United States, and is equivalent to or
synonymous with the designation, in other statutes, of the
judges authorized to issue writs of habeas corpus, or warrants
to arrest persons accused of crime. Rev Stat. §§ 752, 1014.
When, in the form prescribed by law, the executive officer,
acting in behalf of the United States, brings the Chinese
laborer before the judge, in order that he may be heard, and

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the facts upon which depends his right to remain in the
country be decided , a case is duly submitted to the judicial
power, for here are all the elements of a civil case -a complainant, a defendant and a judge - actor, reus et judex. 3
BL. Com. 25, Osborn v Bank qf Unted States, 9 Wheat.
738, 819. No formal complaint or pleadings are required,
and the want of them does not affect the authority of the
judge, or the validity of the statute.
If no evidence is offered by the Chinaman, the judge makes
the order of deportation, as upon a default. If he produces
competent evidence to explain the fact of his not haying a
certificate, it must be considered by the judge, and if he
thereupon appears to be entitled to a certificate, it is to be
granted to hin. If he proves that the collector of internal
revenue has unlawfully refused to give him a certificate, he
proves an "unavoidable cause," within the meaning of the
act, for not procuring one. If he proves that he had procured a certificate which has been lost or destroyed, he is to
be allowed a reasonable time to procure a duplicate thereof.
The provision which puts the burden of proof upon him of
rebutting the presumption arising from his having no certificate, as well as the requirement of proof, "by at least one
credible white witness, that he was a resident of the United
States at the time of the passage of this act," is within the
acknowledged power of every legislature to prescribe the
evidence which shall be received, and the effect of that evidence, in the courts of its own government. Odgen v Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 262, 349, Pillow v -Roberts,13 How 472,
476, iliquot's Champagne,3 Wall. 114,143, Exparte Fisk, 113
U. S. 713, 721, Holmes v Hunt, 122 Mlass. 505, 516-519.
The competency of all witnesses, without regard to their color,
to testify in the courts of the United States, rests on acts of
Congress, which Congress may at its discretion modify or
repeal. Rev Stat. §§ 858, 1977. The reason for requiring a
Chinese alien, claiming the privilege of remaining in the
United States, to prove the fact of his residence here, at the
time of the passage of the act, "by at least one credible white
witness," may have been the experience of Congress, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

mentioned by Mr. Justice Field in Ckae Chan Png's case,
that the enforcement of former acts, under which the testimony of Chinese persons was admitted to prove similar facts,
"was attended with great embarrassment, from the suspicious
nature, in many instances, of the testimony offered to establish
the residence of the parties, arising from the loose notions
entertained by the witnesses of the obligation of an oath."
130 U. S. 598. And this requirement, not allowing such a
fact to be proved solely by the testimony of aliens in a like
situation, or of the same race, is quite analogous to the provision, which has existed for seventy-seven years in the naturalization laws, by which aliens applying for naturalization must
prove their residence within the limits and under the jurisdiction of the United States, for five years next preceding, "by
the oath or affirmation of citizens of the United States." Acts
of March 22, 1816, c. 32, § 2, 3 Stat. 259, May 24, 1828,
c. 116, § 2, 4: Stat. 311, Rev Stat. § 2165, ol. 6, 2 Kent
Com. 65.
The proceeding before a United States judge, as provided
for in section 6 of the act of 1892, is in no proper sense a trial
and sentence for a crime or offence. It is simply the ascertainment, by appropriate and lawful means, of the fact
whether the conditions exist upon which Congress has enacted
that an alien of this class may remain within the country
The order of deportation is not a punishment for crime. It
is not a banishment, in the sense in which that word is often
applied to the expulsion of a citizen from his country by way
of punishment. It is but a method of enforcing the return to
his own country of an alien who has not complied with the
conditions upon the performance of which the government of
the nation, acting within its constitutional authority and
through the proper departments, has determined that his continuing to reside here shall depend. He has not, therefore,
been deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process
of law, and the provisions of the Constitution, securing the
right of trial by jury, and prohibiting unreasonable searches
and seizures, and cruel and unusual punishments, have no
application.

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The question whether, and upon what conditions, these
aliens shall be permitted to remain within the United States
being one to be determined by the political departments of
the government, the judicial department cannot properly
express an opinion upon the wisdom, the policy or the justice
of the measures enacted by Congress in the exercise of the
powers confided to it by the Constitution over tins subject.
The three cases now befgre us do not differ from one
another in any material particular.
In the first case, the petitioner had wholly neglected, failed
and refused to apply to the collector of internal revenue for a
certificate of residence, and, being found without such a certificate after a year from the passage of the act of 1892, was
arrested by the United States marshal, with the purpose, as
the return states, of taking him before a United States judge
within the district, and thereupon, before any further proceeding, sued out a writ of habeas corpus.
In the .second case, the petitioner had likewise neglected,
failed and refused to apply to the collector of internal
revenue for a certificate of residence, and, being found without one, was arrested by the marshal and taken before the
District Judge of the United States, who ordered him to be
remanded to the custody of the marshal, and to be deported
from the United States, in accordance with the provisions
of the act. The allegation in the petition, that the judge's
order was made "without any hearing of any kind," is
shown to be untrue by the recital in the order itself, (a copy
of which is annexed to and made part of the petition,) that
he had failed to clearly establish to the judge's satisfaction
that by reason of accident, sickness or other unavoidable
cause, he had been unable to procure a certificate, or that he
had procured one and it had been lost or destroyed.
In the third case, the petitioner had, within the year,
applied to a collector of internal revenue for a certificate of
residence, and had been refused it, because he produced and
could produce none but Chinese witnesses to prove the residence necessary to entitle him to a certificate. Being found
without a certificate of residence, he was arrested by the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

marshal, and taken before the United States District Judge,
and established to the satisfaction of the judge, that, because
of the collector's refusal to give him a certificate of residence
he was without one by unavoidable cause, and also proved,
by a Chinese witness only, that he was a resident of the
United States at the time of the passage of the act of 1S92.
Thereupon the judge ordered him to be remanded to the
custody of the marshal, and to be deported from the United
States, as provided m that act.
It would seem that the collector of internal revenue, when
applied to for a certificate, might properly decline to find the
requisite fact of residence upon testimony which, by an
express provision of the act, would be insufficient to prove
that fact at a hearing before the judge. But if the collector
might have received and acted upon such testimony, and did,
upon any ground, unjustifiably refuse a certificate of residence, the only remedy of the applicant was to prove by
competent and sufficient evidence at the hearing before the
judge the facts requisite to entitle him to a certificate. To
one of those facts, that of residence, the statute, which, for
the reasons already stated, appears to us to be within the
constitutional authority of Congress to enact, peremptorily
requires at that hearing the testimony of a credible white
witness. And itwas because no such testimony was produced,
that the order of deportation was made.
Upon careful consideration of the subject, the only conclusion which appears to us to be consistent with the principles
of international law, with the Constitution and laws of the
United States, and with the previous decisions of this court,
is that in each of these cases the judgment of the Circuit
Court, dismissing the writ of kabeas corpus, is right and
must be
Aflr'med.
MP. JUSTIoE BIEwEI dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
these cases, and the questions being of importance, I deem it
not improper to briefly state my reasons therefor.

FONG YUE TIiNG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

I rest my dissent on three propositions First, that the
persons against whom the penalties of section 6 of the act of
1892 are directed are persons lawfully residing within the
United States, secondly, that as such they are within the
protection of the Constitution, and secured by its guarantees
against oppression and wrong, and, third, that section 6
deprives them of liberty and inposes punishment without due
process of lAw, and m disregard of constitutional guarantees,
especially those found in the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Eighth
Articles of the Amendments.
And, first, these persons are lawfully residing within the
limits of the United States. By the treaty of July 28, 1868,
16 Stat. 739, 740, commonly known as the "Burlingame
Treaty," it was provided, article 5 "The United States of
America and the Emperor of China cordially recognize the
inherent and inalienable right of man to change his home and
allegiance, and also the mutual advantage of the free migration and emigration of their citizens and subjects, respectively,
from the one country to the other, for purposes of curiosity,
of trade, or as permanent residents." And article 6 "Citizens of the United States visiting or residing in China
shall enjoy the same privileges, immunities, or exemptions in
respect to travel or residence, as may there be enjoyed by
the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation. And,
reciprocally, Chinese subjects visiting or residing in the United
States shall enjoy the same privileges, immunities, and exemptions in respect to travel or residence, as may there be enjoyed
by the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation." At
that time we sought Chinese engration. The subsequent
treaty of November 17, 1880, 22 Stat. 826, which looked to a
restriction of Chinese emigration, nevertheless contained in
article 2 this provision
"ArTicLF II. Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the
United States as teachers, students, merchants, or from curiosity, together with their body and household servants, and
Chinese laborers who are now in the United States shall be
allowed to go and come of their own free will and accord,
and shall be accorded all the rights, privileges, unmunitics,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

and exemptions which are accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most favored nation."
While subsequently to this treaty, Congress passed several
acts -May 6, 1882, 22 Stat. 58, c. 126, July 5, 1884, 23 Stat.
115, c. 220, October 1, 1888, 25 Stat. 504, c. 1064- to restrict the entrance into this country of Chinese laborers, and
while the validity of this restriction was sustained iu the
Chnese Excluszon case, 130 U S. 581, yet no act has been
passed denying the right of those laborers who had once lawfully entered the country to remain, and they are here not as
travellers or only temporarily We must take judicial notice
of that which is disclosed by the census, and which is also a
matter of common knowledge. There are 100,000 and more
of these persons living in this country, making their homes
here, and striving by their labor to earn a livelihood. They
are not travellers, but resident aliens.
But, further, this section six recognizes the fact of a lawful
residence, and only applies to those who have such, for the
parties named m the section, and to be reached by its provisions, are "Chinese laborers within the limits of the United
States at the time of the passage of this act, and who are
entitled to remain in the United States." These appellants,
therefore, are lawfully within the United States, and are here
as residents, and not as travellers. They have lived in this
country, respectively, since 1879, 1877, and 1874- almost as
long a time as some of those who were members of the Congress that passed this act of punishment and expulsion.
That those who have become domiciled in a country are
entitled to a more distinct and larger measure of protection
than those who are simply passing through, or temporarily in
it, has long been recognized by the law of nations. It was
said by this court, in the case of Thke Venus, 8 Cranch, 253,
278 "The writers upon the law of nations distinguish between a temporary residence in a foreign country, for a special
purpose, and a residence accompanied with an intention to
make it a permanent place of abode. The latter is styled by
Vattel, dom'tiZ, which he defines to be 'a habitation fixed m
any place, with an intention of always staying there.' Such

FONG YUE TING v. 'UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

a person, says this author, becomes a member of the new
society, at least as a permanent inhabitant, and is a kind of
citizen of an inferior order from the native citizens, but is,
nevertheless, united and subject to the society, without participating in all its advantages. This right of domicil, he continues, is not established, unless the person makes sufficiently
known his intention of fixing there, either tacitly or by an
express declaration. (Vatt. pp. 92, 93.) Grotius nowhere
uses the word do~mil, but he also distinguishes between those
who stay in a foreign country by the necessity of their affairs,
or from any other temporary cause. and those who reside
there from a permanent cause. The former he denominates
strangers, and the latter subjects." The rule is thus laid
down by Sir Robert Phillimore "It has been said that these
rules of law are applicable to naturalized as well as native
citizens. But there is a class of persons which cannot be,
strictly speaking, included under either of these denommations, namely, the class of those who have ceased to reside in
their native country, and have taken up a permanent abode
in another. These are domiciled inhabitants, they
have not put on a new citizenship through some formal mode
enjoined by'the law of the new country They are de facto
though not de jure citizens of the country of their doncil."
1 Phillimore, International Law, Ohap. XVIII, p. 34,7.
In the _[foszta case it was said by Secretary Marcy "This
right to protect persons having a domicil, though not nativeborn or naturalized citizens, rests on the firm foundation of
justice, and the claim to be protected is earned by considerations which the protecting power is not at liberty to disregard.
Such domiciled citizen pays the same price for his protection
as native-born or naturalized citizens pay for theirs. He is
under the bonds of allegiance to the country of his residence,
and if he breaks them incurs the same penalties, he owes the
same obedience to the civil laws
, his property is in
the same way and to the same extent as theirs liable to contribute to the support of the government.
In nearly
all respects his and their condition as to the duties and burdens
of government are undistmugmshable." 2 Wharton Int. Law
Digest, § 198.

OCTOBER TERM 1892.
Dissenting Opinion

Brewer, J.

And in Lau Ow Bew v Unzted ,States,1441 U S. 47, 61, this
court declared that "by general international law, foreigners
who have become domiciled in a country other than their own,
acquire rights and must discharge duties in many respects the
same as possessed by and imposed upon the citizens of that
country, and no restriction on the footing upon which such
persons stand by reason of their domicil,
is to be
presumed."
Indeed, there is force in the contention of counsel for
appellants, that these persons are "denizens" within the true
meaning and spirit of that word as used in the common law
The old definition was this
"A denizen of England by letters patent for life, in tayl or
in fee, whereby he becomes a subject in regard of his person."
Craw v Riamsey, Vaughan's Reports, 278.
And again
"A denizen is an alien born, but who has obtained ex
donatione qregs letters patent to make him an English subject,
A

denizen is in a kind of middle state, between an

alien and a natural-born subject, and partakes of both of
them." 1 B1. Com. 374.
In respect to this, after quoting from some of the early constitutions of the States, in which the word "denizen" isfound,
counsel say "It is claimed that the appellants in this case
come completely within the definition quoted above. They
are alien born, but they have obtained the same thing as
letters patent from this country They occupy a middle state
between an alien and a native. They partake of both of
them. They cannot vote, or, as it is stated in Bacon's Abridgment, they have no power of making laws,' as a native-born
subject can, nor are they here as ordinary aliens. An ordinary alien within this country has come here under no prohibition, and no invitation, but the appellants have come under
the direct request and invitation and under the 'patent' of
the Federal government. They have been guaranteed 'the
same privileges, immunities, and exemptions in respect to
residence' (Burlingame Treaty concluded July 28,
1868) as that enjoyed in the United States by the citizens and

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion

Brewer, J.

subjects of the most favored nation. They have been told
that if they would come here they would be treated just the
same as we treat an Englishman, an Irishman, or a Frenchman.
They have been invited here, and their position is much
stronger than that of an alien, in regard to whom there is no
guarantee from the government, and who has come not in response to any invitation, but has simply drifted here because
there is no prohibition to keep him out. They certainly come
within the meamng of ' denizen' as used in the constitutions
of the States."
But whatever rights a resident alien might have in any
other nation, here he is within the express protection of the
Constitution, especially in respect to those guarantees which
are declared in the original amendments. It has been
repeated so often as to become axiomatic, that tins government is one of enumerated and delegated powers, and, as
declared in Article 10 of the amendments, "the powers not
delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."
It is said that the power here asserted is inherent in
sovereignty
This doctrine of powers inherent in sovereignty is one both indefinite and dangerous. Where are
the limits to such powers to be found, and by whom are
they to be pronounced 2 Is it within legislative capacity to
declare the limits2 , If so, then the mere assertion of an
inherent power creates it, and despotism exists. May the
courts establish the boundaries ? Whence do they obtaan
the authority for this2 Shall they look to the practices of
other nations to ascertain the limits2 The governments of
other nations have elastic powers - ours is fixed and bounded
by a written constitution. The expulsion of a race may be
within the inherent powers of a despotism. History, before
the adoption of this Constitution, was not destitute of examples of the exercise of such a power, and its framers
were familiar with history, and wisely, as it seems to me,
they gave to this government no general power to banish.
Banishment may be resorted to as punishment for crime, but
VOL. cxLIx-47

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

among the powers reserved to the people and not delegated
to the government is that of determimng whether whole
classes in our midst shall, for no crine but that of their race
and birthplace, be driven from our territory
Whatever may be true as to exclusion, and as to that see
Chinese Excluswn case. 130 U. S. 581, and .L3isAmiura M.bu
v United States, 142 U S. 651, I deny that there is any arbitrary and unrestrained power to banish residents, even resident
aliens. What, it may be asked, is the reason for any difference9, The answer is obvious. The Constitution has no
extraterritorial effect, and those who have not come lawfully
within our territory cannot claim any protection from its
provisions. And it may be that the national government,
having full control of all matters relating to other nations,
has the power to build, as it were, a Chinese wall around our
borders and absolutely forbid aliens to enter. But the Constitution has potency everywhere within the limits of our
territory, and the powers which the national government may
exercise within such limits are those, and only those, given to
it by that instrument. Now, the power to remove resident
aliens is, confessedly, not expressed. Even if it be among the
powers implied, yet still it can be exercised only in subordination to the limitations and restrictions imposed by the Constitution. 'In the case of .Monongahela Savngaton Company
v Unded States, 148 U S. 312. 336, it was said "But like
the other powers granted to Congress by the Constitution.
the power to regulate commerce is subject to all the limitations imposed by such instrument, and among them is that
of the Fifth Amendment we have heretofore quoted. Congress has supreme control over the regulation of commerce,
but if, in exercising that supreme control, it deems it necessary to take private property, then it must proceed subject
to the limitations imposed by this Fifth Amendment, and
can take only on payment of just compensation." And if
that be true of the powers expressly granted, it must as certainly be true of those that are only granted by implication.
When the first ten amendments were presented for adoption

FONTG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
issenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

they were preceded by a preamble stating that the conventions of many States had at the time of their adopting the
Constitution expressed a desire, "Imorder to prevent misconception or abuse of its powers, that further declaratory and
restrictive clauses should be added." It is worthy of notice
that in them the word "citizen" is not found. In some of
them the descriptive word is "people," but in the Fifth it is
broader, and the word is "person," and in the Sixth it is the
"accused," while in the Third, Seventh, and Eighth there is
no limitation as to the beneficiaries suggested by any descriptive word.
In the case of Yick IFo v Hopk'zns, 118 U S.356, 369, it
was said "The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
is not confined to the protection of citizens. It says ' Nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.' These provisions are umversal in their application to all persons within
the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of
race, of color, or of nationality, and the equal protection of
the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws." The
matter considered in that case was of a local nature, a micipal ordinance for regulating the carrying on of public laundries, something fairly within the police power of a State,
and yet because its provisions conflicted with the guarantees
of the Fourteenth Amendment, the ordinance was declared
void.
If the use of the word "person" in the Fourteenth Amendment protects all individuals lawfully within the State, the
use of the same word "person" in the Fifth must be equally
comprehensive, and secures to all persons lawfully within the
territory of the United States the protection named therein,
and a like conclusion must follow as to the Sixth.
I pass, therefore, to the consideration of my third proposition Section 6 deprives of "life, liberty, and property without due process of law" It imposes punishment without a
trial, and punishment cruel and severe. It places the liberty
of one individual subject to the unrestrained control of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

another. Notice its provisions It first commands all to
register. He who does not register violates that law, and
may be punished, and so the section goes on to say that one who
has not complied with its requirements, and has no certificate
of residence, "shall be deemed and adjudged to be unlawfully
within the United States," and then it imposes as a penalty
his deportation from the country Deportation is punishment. It involves first an arrest, a deprival of liberty, and,
second, a removal from home, from family, from business,
from property In Rapalje & Lawrence's Law Dictionary,
(vol. 1, page 109,) "banishment" is thus defined "A punishment by forced exile, either for years or for life, inflicted
principally upon political offenders, 'transportation' being
the word used to express a similar pumshment of ordinary
criminals." In 4 B1. Com. 377, it is said "Some punishments
consist in exile or banishment, by abjuration of the realm, or
transportation." In Yattel we find that "banishment is only
applied to condemnation in due course of law"
Note to
§ 228, Book 1, c. 19, in 1 Vattel.
But it needs no citation of authorities to support the proposition that deportation is punishment. Every one knows that
to be forcibly taken away from home, and family, and friends,
and business, and property, and sent across the ocean to a
distant land, is puishment, and that oftentimes most severe
and cruel. Apt and just are the words of one of the framers
of this Constitution, President Aadison, when be says (4
Elliot's Debates, 555) "If the banishment of an alien from a
country into which he has been invited as the asylum most
auspicious to his happiness-a country where he may have
formed the most tender connections, where he may have invested his entire property, and acquired property of the real
and permanent, as well as the movable and temporary kind,
where he enjoys, under the laws, a greater share of the blessings of personal security and personal liberty than he can
elsewhere hope for,
if, moreover, in the execution
of the sentence against him he is to be exposed, not only to
the ordinary dangers of the sea, but to the peculiar casualties
incident to a crisis of war and of unusual licentiousness on

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

that element, and possibly to vindictive purposes, which his
immigration itself may have provoked -if a banishment of
this sort be not a punishment, and among the severest'of punishments, it will be difficult to imagine a doom to which the
name can be applied."
But punishment nnplies a trial "No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law" Due process requires that a man be heard before he is
condemned, and both heard and condemned in the due and
orderly procedure of a trial as recognized by the common law
from time immemorial. It was said by this court in Hagarv
JReclamaton _Dtstmct, 111 U S. 701, 108, "undoubtedly where
life and liberty are involved, due process requires that there
be a regular course of judicial proceedings, which imply that
the party to be affected shall have notice and an opportunity
to be heard." And by Mr. Justice Bradley, in defining "due
process of law" in Davtdson v NYew Orleans, 96 U S. 97,107,
"if found to be suitable or admissible in the special case, it
will be adjudged to be ' due process of law,' but if found to be
arbitrary, oppressive, and unjust, it may be declared to be not
' due process of law '" And no person who has once come
within the protection of the Constitution can be punished
without a trial. It may be summary, as for petty offences
and in cases of contempt, but still a trial, as known to the
common law It is said that a person may be extradited without a previous trial, but extradition is snnply one step in the
process of arresting and securing for trial. He may be removed by extradition from California to New York, or from
this country to another, but such proceeding is not oppressive
or unjust, but suitable and necessary, and, therefore, due process of law But here, the Chinese are not arrested and extradited for trial, but arrested and, without a trial, punished by
banishment.
Again, it is absolutely within the discretion of the collector
to give or refuse a certificate to one who applies therefor.
Nowhere is it provided what evidence shall be furnished to
the collector, and nowhere is it made mandatory upon him to
grant a certificate on the production of such evidence. It can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.
f

not be due process of law to impose punishment on any person
for failing to have that in his possession, the possession of
which he can obtain only at the arbitrary and unregulated
discretion of any official. It will not do to say that the presumption is that the official will act reasonably and not arbitrarily When the right to liberty and residence is involved,
some other protection than the mere discretion of any official
is required. Well was it said by M,'r. Justice Matthews, in the
case of Yick W'o -. fopkimn, supra, on page 369 "When we
consider the nature and the theory of our institutions of government, the principles upon which they are supposed to rest,
and review the history of their development, we are constrained to conclude that they do not mean to leave room
for the play and action of purely personal and arbitrary
power."
Again, a person found without such certificate may be
taken before a United States Judge. What judge 2 A judge
m the'district in which the party resides or is found
There
is no limitation in this respect. A Chinese laborer in San.
Francisco may be arrested by a deputy United States marshal,
and taken before a judge in Oregon, and when so taken
before that judge, it is made his duty to deport such laborer
unless he proves his innocence of any violation of the law, and
that, too, by at least one credible white witness. And how
shall he obtain that witness 9 No provision is made in the
statute therefor. Will it be said that Article 6 of the amendments gives to the accused a right to have a compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor 2 . The reply is,
that if he is entitled to one part of that article, he is entitled
to all, and among them is the right to a speedy and public
trial by an impartial jury of the State and district. The only
theory upon which this proceeding can be sustained is that he
has no right to any benefits of this Article 6, and if he has
no right thereto, and the statute has made no provision for securing his witnesses or limiting the proceeding to a judge of
the district where he resides, the result follows inevitably, as
stated, that he may be arrested by any one of the numerous
officials named in the statute, and carried before any judge in

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J.

the United States that such official may select, and, then, unless he proves that which he is given no means of proving, be
punished by removal from home, friends, family, property,
business, to another country
It is said that these Chinese are entitled, while they remain,
to the safeguards of the Constitution and to the protection of
the laws in regard to their rights of person and of property,
but that they continue to be aliens, subject to the absolute
power of Congress to forcibly remove them. In other words,
the guarantees of "life, liberty, and property," named in the
Constitution, are theirs by sufferance and not of right. Of
what avail are such guarantees 2
Once more Supposing a Chinaman from San Francisco,
having obtained a certificate, should go to New York or other
place in pursuit of work, and on the way his certificate be
lost or destroyed. H:e is subject to arrest and detention, the
cost of which is in the discretion of the court, and judgment
of deportation will be suspended a reasonable time to enable
him to obtain a duplicate from the officer granting it. In
other words, he cannot move about in safety without carry
ing with 'hn this certificate. The situation was well
described by Senator Sherman m the debate in the Senate
"They are here ticket-of-leave men, precisely as, under the
Australian law, a convict is allowed to go at large upon a
ticket-of-leave, these people are to be allowed to go at large
and earn their livelihood, but they must have their tickets-ofleave m their possession." And he added "This inaugurates in our system of government a new departure, one, I
believe, never before practised, although it was suggested in
conference that some such rules had been adopted in slavery
tunes to secure the peace of society"
It is true this statute is directed only against the obnoxious Chinese, but if the power exists, who shall say it
will not be exercised to-morrow against other classes and
other people 2 If the guarantees of these amendments can
be thus ignored in order to get rid of this distasteful class,
what security have others that a like disregard of its provisions may not be resorted to 2 Profound and wise were the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion

Field, J.

observations of Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court in
Boyd v United States, 116 U S. 616, 635 "Illegitimate and
unconstitutional practices get their first footing in that way,
namely, by silent approaches and slight deviations from legal
modes of procedure. This can only be obviated by adhering
to the rule that constitutional provisions for the security of
person and property should be liberally construed. A close
and literal construction deprives them of half their efficacy,
and leads to gradual depreciation of the right, as if it consisted
more in sound than in substance. It is the duty of the courts
to be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and
against any stealthy encroachments thereon. Their motto
should be obstaprncnmpiis."
In the Yice Wo case, in winch was presented a municipal
ordinance, fair on its face, but contrived to work oppression
to a few engaged in a single occupation, this court saw no
difficulty in finding a constitutional barrier to such injustice.
But this greater wrong, by which a hundred thousand people
are subject to arrest and forcible deportation from the country, is beyond the reach of the protecting power of the Constitution. Its grievous wrong suggests this declaration of
wisdom, coming from the dawn of English history "Verily
he who dooms a worse doom to the friendless and the comer
from afar than to his fellow, injures himself." (The Laws of
King Cnut, 1 Thorpe's Ancient Laws and Institutes of England, p. 397.)
In view of this enactment of the highest legislative body of
the foremost Christian nation, may not the thoughtful Chinese
disciple of Confucius fairly ask, Why do they send missionaries here 2
MR.JUSTICE

FIELD

dissenting.'

I also wish to say a few words upon these cases and upon
the extraordinary doctrines announced m support of the
orders of the court below
I Mr. Justice Field's dissenting opinion bears the titles of the three cases,
Nos. 1345, 1346, and 1347, and is further generally entitled Chinese Deportation Cases."

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

With the treaties between the United States and China, and
the subsequent legislation adopted by Congress to prevent the
immigration of Chinese laborers into this country, resulting in
the Exclusion Act of October 1, 1888, the court is familiar.
They have often been before us and have been considered in
almost every phase. The act of 1888 declared that after its
passage it should be unlawful for any Chinese laborer-who
might then or thereafter be a resident of the United States,
who should depart therefrom and not return before the passage of the act - to return or remain in the United States.
The validity of this act was sustained by this court. 130 U S.
581. In the opimon announcing the decision we considered
the treaties with China, and also the legislation of Congress
and the causes which led to its enactment. The court cited
numerous instances in which statesmen and jurists of eminence
had held that it was the undoubted right of every independent nation to exclude foreigners from its limits whenever in
its judgment the public interests demanded such exclusion.
"The power of exclusion of foreigners," said the court,
"being an incident of sovereignty belonging to the government of the United States as a part of those sovereign powers
delegated by the Constitution, the right to its exercise at any
tne when, in the judgment of the government the interests
of the country require it, cannot be granted away or restrained
on behalf of any one. The powers of government are delegated in trust to the United States and are incapable of transfer to any other parties. They cannot be abandoned or
surrendered.
Nor can their exercise be hampered, when
needed for the public good, by any considerations of private
interest. The exercise of these public trusts is not the subject of barter or contract. Whatever license, therefore,
Chinese laborers may have obtained previous to the act of
October 1, 1888, to return to the United States after their departure, is held at the will of the government, revocable at
any tne at its pleasure. Whether a proper consideration by
our government of its previous laws, or a proper respect for
the nation whose subjects are affected by its action, ought to
have qualified its inhibition and made it applicable only to

OCTOBER TERTM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

persons departing from the country after the passage of the
act, are not questions for judicial determination. If there be
any just ground of complaint on the part of China it must be
made to the political department of our government, which is
alone competent to act upon the subject." p. 609.
I had the honor to be the organ of the court in announcing
this opinion and judgment. I still adhere to the views there
expressed in all particulars, but between legislation for the
exclusion of Chinese persons-that is, to prevent them from
entering the country -and legislation for the deportation of
those who have acquired a residence in the country under a
treaty with China, there is a wide and essential difference.
The power of the government to exclude foreigners from this
country, that is, to prevent them from entering it, whenever
the Dublic interests in its judgment reqmre such exclusion, has
been repeatedly asserted by the legislative and executive departments of our government and never denied, but its power
to deport from the country persons lawfully domiciled therein
by its consent, and engaged in the ordinary pursuits of life,
has never been asserted by the legislative or executive departments except for crime, or as an act of war in view of existing
or anticipated hostilities, unless the alien act of June 25, 1798,
can be considered as recognizing that doctrine. 1 Stat. 570,
c. 58. That act vested in the President power to order all
such aliens as he should adjudge dangerous to the peace and
safety of the United States, or should have reasonable grounds
to suspect were concerned in any treasonable or secret machinations against the government, to depart out of the territory of the United States within such time as should be
expressed in his order. And in case any alien when thus
ordered to depart should be found at large within the United
States after the term limited in the order, not having obtained
a license from the President to reside therein, or having obtained such license should not have conformed thereto, he
should on conviction thereof be imprisoned for a term not exceeding three years, and should never afterwards be admitted
to become a citizen of the United States, with a proviso that
if the alien thus ordered to depart should prove to the satis-

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

faction of the President, by evidence to be taken before such
person or persons as he should direct, that no injury or danger
to the United States would arise from suffering ban to reside
therein, the President might grant a license to him to remain
within the United States for such time as he should judge
proper and at such place as he should designate. The act also
provided that the President might require such alien to enter
into a bond to the United States in such penal sum as he
might direct, with one or more sureties to the satisfaction of
the person authorized by the President to take the same, conditioned for his good behavior during his residence in the
United States, and not to violate his license, which the President might revoke whenever he should think proper. The
act also provided that it should be lawful for the President,
whenever he deemed it necessary for the public safety, to
order to be removed out of the territory of the United States
any alien in prison in pursuance of the act, and to cause to be
arrested and sent out of the United States such aliens as may
have been ordered to depart, and had not obtained a license,
in all cases where, in the opinion of the President, the public
safety required a speedy removal. And that if any alien thus
removed or sent out of the United States should voluntarily
return, unless by permission of the President, such alien, being
convicted thereof, should be imprisoned so long as in the opinion of the President the public safety might require.
The passage of this act produced great excitement throughout the country and was severely denounced by many of its
ablest statesmen and jurists as unconstitutional and barbarous, and among them may be mentioned the great names of
Jefferson and Madison, who are throughout our country
honored and revered for their lifelong devotion to principles
of constitutional liberty It was defended by its advocates as
a war measure. John Adams, the President of the United
States at the time, who approved the bill and against whom
the responsibility for its passage was charged, states in his
correspondence that the bill was intended as a measure of
that character. 9 John Adams's Works, 291. The State of
Virginia denounced it in severe terms. Its general assembly

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion Field, J.

passed resolutions upon the act and another act of the same
session of Congress known as the "sedition act." Upon the first
-the alien act- one of the resolutions declared that it exercised a power nowhere delegated to the Federal government,
and which, by uniting legislative and judicial powers to those
of executive, subverted the general principles of free government as well as the particular organization and positive provisions of the Federal Constitution. 4 Elliot's Deb. 528. The
resolutions upon both acts were transmitted to the legislatures of different States, and their communications in answer
to them were referred to a committee of the general assembly of Virginia, of which Mr. Mfadison was a member, and
upon them his celebrated report was made. With reference
to the alien act, after observing that it was incumbent in this,
as in every other exercise of power by the Federal government, to prove from the Constitution that it granted the particular power exercised, and also that much confusion and
fallacy had been thrown into the question to be considered by
blending the two cases of aliens, nemers of a hostile naftwn,
and aliens, members of friendly nations, he said. "With

respect to alien enemies, no doubt has been intimated as to
the Federal authority over them, the Constitution having
expressly delegated to Congress the power to declare war
against any nation, and, of course, to treat it and all its members as enemies. With respect to aliens who are not enemies,
but members of nations in peace and amity with the United
States, the power assumed by the act of Congress is denied to
be constitutional, and it is accordingly against this act that
the protest of the general assembly is expressly and exclusively directed." 4 Elliot's Deb. 554.
"Were it admitted, as is contended, that the ' act concerning aliens' has for its object, not a penal, but a preventive
justice, it would still remain to be proved that it comes within
the constitutional power of the Federal legislature, and, if
within its power, that the legislature has exercised it in a constitutional manner.
It can never be admitted that
the removal of aliens, authorized by the act, is to be considered, not as punishment for an offence, but as a measure of

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion

Field, J.

precaution and prevention. If the banishment of an alien
from a country into which he has been invited as the asylum
most auspicious to his happiness - a country where he may
have formed the most tender connections, where he may have
invested his entire property, and acquired property of the real
and permanent as well as the movable and temporary kind,
where he enjoys, under the laws, a greater share of the
blessings of personal security and personal liberty, than he
can elsewhere hope for,
if a banishment of this
sort be not a punishment, and among the severest of punishments, it would be difficult to imagine a doom to which the
name can be applied. And, if it be a punishment, it will
remain to be mnqmred whether it can be constitutionally inflicted, on mere suspicion, by the single will of the executive
magistrate, on persons convicted of no personal offence
against the laws of the land, nor involved in any offence
against the law of nations, charged on the foreign state of
which they are members." 4 Elliot's Deb. 554, 555.
It does not follow, because aliens are not parties to the Constitution, as citizens are parties to it, that, whilst they actually conform to it, they have no right to its protection.
Aliens are not more parties to the laws than they are parties
to the Constitution, yet it will not be disputed that, as they
owe, on one hand, a temporary obedience, they are entitled,
in return, to their protection and advantage.
If aliens had no rights under the Constitution, they might
not only be banished, but even capitally punished without a
jury or the other incidents to a fair trial. But, so far has a
contrary principle been carried, in every part of the United
States, that, except on charges of treason, an alien has,
besides all the common privileges, the special one of being
tried by a jury of which one-half may be also aliens.
o
"It is said, further, that, by the law and practice of nations,
aliens may be removed, at discretion, for offences against the
law of nations, that Congress is authorized to define and
punish such offences, and that to be dangerous to the peace
of society is, in aliens, one of those offences.
"The distinction between alien enemies and alien friends is

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

a clear and conclusive answer to this argument. Alien
enemies are under the law of nations, and liable to be punished for offences against it. Alien friends, except m the
single case of public ministers, are under the municipal law,
and must be tried and punished according to that law only"
4 Elliot's Deb. 556. Massachusetts, evidently considering the
alien act as a war measure, adopted in anticipation of probable
hostilities, said, in answer to the resolutions of Virgina,
among other things, that "the removal of aliens is the usual
preliminary of hostility, and is justified by the invariable
usages of nations. Actual hostility had, unhappily, been long
experienced, and a formal declaration of it the government
had reason daily to expect." 4 Elliot's Deb. 535.
The duration of the act was limited to two years, and it
has ever since been the subject of universal condemnation.
In no other instance, until the law before us was passed, has
any public man had the boldness to advocate the deportation
of friendly aliens in time of peace. I repeat the statement,
that in no other instance has the deportation of friendly aliens
been advocated as a lawful measure by any department of
our government. And it will surprise most people to learn
that any such dangerous and despotic power lies in our government-a power which will authorize it to expel at
pleasure, in time of peace, the whole body of friendly
foreigners of any country domiciled herein by its permission,
a power which can be brought into exercise whenever it may
suit the pleasure of Congress, and be enforced without regard
to the guarantees of the Constitution intended for the protection of the rights of all persons in their liberty and propertv Is it possible that Congress can, at its pleasure, in
disregard of the guarantees of the Constitution, expel at any
time the Irish, German, French, and English who may have
taken up their residence here on the invitation of the government, while we are at peace with the countries from
which they came, simply on the ground that they have not
been naturalized 9,
Notwithstanding the activity of the public authorities in
enforcing the exclusion act of 1888, it was constantly evaded.

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

Chinese laborers came into the country by water and by land,
they came through the open ports and by rivers reaching the
seas, and they came by way of the Canadas and Mexico.
New means of ingress were discovered, and m spite of the
vigilance of the police and customs officers great numbers
clandestinely found their way into the country Their resemblance to each other rendered it difficult, and often impossible,
to prevent this evasion of the laws. It was under these circumstances that the act of May 5, 1892, c. 60, was passed. It
had two objects in view There were two classes of Chinese
persons in the country, those who had evaded the laws excluding them and entered clandestinely, and those who had
entered lawfully and resided therein under the treaty with
China.
The act of 1892 extended, for the period of ten years from
its passage, all laws then in force prohibiting and regulating
the coming into the country of Chinese persons, or persons of
Chinese descent, and it provided that any person, when convicted or adjudged under any of those laws of not legally
being or remaimng in the United States, should be removed
therefrom to China, or to such other country as it might
appear he was a subject of, unless such other country should
demand a tax as a condition of his removal thereto, in which
case he should be removed to China. The act also provided
that a Chinese person arrested under its provisions, or the
provisions of the acts extended, should be adjudged to be unlawfully within the United States, unless he should establish
by affirmative proof his lawful right to remain -within the
United States, and that any "Chinese person, or person of
Chinese descent, "convicted. and adjudged not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United States, should be inprisoned at hard labor for a period not exceeding one year, and
thereafter removed from the United States." With this class
of Chinese, and with the provisions of law applicable to them,
we have no concern in the present case. We have only to
consider the provisions of the act applicable to the second
class of Chinese persons, those who had a lawful right to remain in the United States. By the additional articles to the

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

treaty of 1858, adopted in 1868, generally called the Burlingame treaty, the governments of the two countries recognized
"the inherent and inalienable right of man to change his
home and allegiance, and also the mutual advantage of free
migration and emigration of their citizens and subjects, respectively, from the one country to the other for purposes of
curiosity, of trade, or as permanent residence, " and accordingly the treaty in the additional articles provided that citizens
of the United States visiting or residing in China, and Chinese
subjects visiting or residing in the United States, should reciprocally enjoy the same privileges, immunities, and exemptions
in respect to travel or residence as should be enjoyed by citizens or subjects of the most favored nation, in the country in
which they should, respectively, be visiting or residing. 16
Stat. 739, '740. The supplemental treaty of November 17.
1880, providing for the limitation or suspension of the emigration of Chinese laborers, declared that "the limitation or
suspension shall be reasonable and apply only to Chinese who
may go to the United States as laborers, other classes not
being included in the limitation," and that "Chinese subjects,
whether residing in the United States as teachers, students,
merchants, or from curiosity, together with their body and
household servants, and Chinese laborers who were then in
the United States, shall be allowed to go and come of their
own free will and accord, and shall be accorded all rights,
privileges, immunities, and exemptions, which are accorded to
the citizens and subjects of the most favored nation."
There are many thousands of Chinese laborers who came to
the country and resided in it under the additional articles of
the treaty adopted in 1868, and-were in the country at the
time of the adoption of the supplemental treaty of November,
1880. To these laborers thus lawfully within the limits of
the United States section six of the act of May 5, 1892, relates.
That section, so far as applicable to the present cases, is as
follows
"SEC. 6. And it shall be the duty of all Chinese laborers
within the limits of the Umted States at the time of the
passage of this act and who are entitled to r'emazn m the

FOIG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

Uned States, to apply to the collector of internal revenue of
their respective districts, within one year after the passage of
tins act, for a certificate of residence, and any Chinese laborer
within the United States, who shall neglect, fail or refuse to
comply with the provisions of tins act, or who, after one year
from the passage hereof, shall'be found within the jurisdiction
of the United States without such certificate of residence,
shall be deemed and adjudged to be unlawfully within the
United States, and may be arrested by any United States
customs official, collector of internal revenue or his deputies,
United States marshal or Ins deputies, and taken before a
United States judge, whose duty it shall be to order that he
be deported from the United States, as hereinbefore provided,
unless he shall establish clearly to the satisfaction of the said
judge that by reason of accident, sickness or other unavoidable
cause, be has been unable to procure his certificate, and to the
satisfaction of the court, and by at least one credible white
witness, that he was a resident of the United States at the
time of the passage of this act, and if upon the hearing it
shall appear that he is so entitled to a certificate, it shall be
granted upon his paying the cost. Should it appear that said
Chinaman had procured a certificate which has been lost or
destroyed, he shall be detained and judgment suspended a
reasonable time to enable him to procure a duplicate from the
officer granting it, and in such cases the cost of said arrest
and trial shall be in the discretion of the court."
The purpose of this section was to secure the means of
readily identifying the Chinese laborers present in the
country and entitled to remain, from those who may have
clandestinely entered the country in violation of its laws.
Those entitled to remain, by having a certificate of their
identification, would enable the officers of the government to
readily discover and bring to punishment those not entitled to
enter but who are excluded. To procure such a certificate
was not a hardship to the laborers, but a means to secure full
protection to them, and at the same time prevent an evasion
of the law
This object being constitutional, the only question for our
VOL. cx=i--48

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
fDissenting Opinion

Field, J.

consideration is the lawfulness of the procedure provided for
its accomplishment, and this must be tested by the provisions
of the Constitution and laws intended for the protection of all
persons against encroachment upon their rights. Aliens from
countries at peace with us, domiciled within our country by
its consent, are entitled to all the guaranties for the
protection of their persons and property which are secured to
native-born citizens. The moment any human being from a
country at peace with us comes within the jurisdiction of the
United States, with their consent- and such consent will
always be implied when not expressly withheld, and m the
case of the Chinese laborers before us was in terms given
by the treaty referred to- he becomes subject to all their
laws, is amenable to their punishment and entitled to their
protection. Arbitrary and despotic power can no more be
exercised over them with reference to their persons and
property, than over the persons and property of native-born
citizens. They differ only from citizens in that they cannot
vote or hold any public office. As men having our common
humanity, they are protected by all the guaranties of the
Constitution. To hold that they are subject to any different
law or are less protected in any particular than other persons,
is in my judgment to ignore the teachings of our history, the
practice of our government, and the language of our Constitution. Let us test this doctrine by an illustration. If a
foreigner who resides in the country by its consent commits a
public offence, is he subject to be cut down, maltreated,
imprisoned, or put to death by violence, without accusation
made, trial had, and judgment of an established tribunal
following the regular forms of judicial procedure2 If any
rule in the administration of justice is to be omitted or
discarded in his case, what rule is it to be29 If one rule may
lawfully be laid aside in his case, another rule may also be
laid aside, and all rules may be discarded. In such instances
a rule of evidence may be set aside in one case, a rule of
pleading in another, the testimony of eye-witnesses may be
rejected and hearsay adopted, or no evidence at all may be
received, but simply an inspection of the accused, as is often

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

the case in tribunals of Asiatic countries where personal
caprice and not settled rules prevail. That would be to
establish a pure, simple, undisguised despotism and tyranny
with respect to foreigners resident in the country by its
consent, and such an exercise of power is not permissible
under our Constitution. Arbitrary and tyrannical power has
no place in our system. As said by this court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Matthews, in Tiek Wo v. JHokins, 118 U. S. 356,
369 "When we consider the nature and theory of our
institutions of government, the principles upon which they
are supposed to rest, and view the history of their development, we are constrained to conclude they do not mean to
leave room for the play and action of purely personal and
The fundamental rights to life,
arbitrary power.
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as individual possessions
are secured by those maxims of constitutional law which are
the monuments, showing the victorious progress of the race in
securing to man the blessings of civilization under the reign
of just and equal laws." What once I had occasion to say of
the protection afforded by our government I repeat "It is
certainly something in which a citizen of the United States
may feel a generous pride that the government of his country
extends protection to all persons within its jurisdiction, and
that every blow aimed at any of them, however humble,
come from what quarter it may, is 'caught upon the broad
shield of our blessed Constitution and our equal laws.'" H o
Ah Kow v. Yurnan, 5 Sawyer, 552, 563.
I utterly dissent from and reject the doctrine expressed in
the opinion of the majority, that "Congress, under the power
to exclude or expel aliens, might have directed any Chinese
laborer found in the United States without a certificate of
residence to be removed out of the country by executive
officers, without judicial trial or examination, just as it might
have authorized such officers absolutely to prevent his
An arrest in that way for that
entrance into the country"
purpose would not be a reasonable seizure of the person
within the meaning of the Fourth Article of the amendments
to the Constitution. It would be brutal and oppressive. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

existence of the power thus stated is only consistent with the
admission that the government is one of unlimited and
despotic power so far as aliens domiciled in the country are
concerned. According to its theory, Congress might have
ordered executive officers to take the Chinese laborers to the
ocean and put them into a boat and set them adrift, or to
take them to the borders of Mexico and turn them loose
there, and in both cases without any means of support,
indeed, it might have sanctioned towards these laborers the

most shocking brutality conceivable.

I utterly repudiate all

such notions, and reply that brutality, inhumanity, and
cruelty cannot be made elements in any procedure for the
enforcement of the laws of the United States.
The majority of the court have, m their opinion, made
numerous citations from the courts and the utterances of
individuals upon the power of the government of an independent nation to exclude foreigners from entering its
limits, but none, beyond a few loose observations, as to its

power to expel and deport from the country those who are
domiciled therein by its consent. The citation from the
opinion in the recent case of ]Arishsmura Ekzu v United

States, (the Japanese case,) 142 U. S. 651, the citation from
the opinion in Ckae Chan Pking v Un'ded States, (the Chinese
Exclusion case,) 130 U S. 581, 604, 606, the citation in the
case before the judiciary committee of the Privy Councilall have reference to the exclusion of foreigners from entering
the country They do not touch upon the question of deportmg them from the country after they have been domiciled
within it by the consent of its government, which is the real
question in the case. The citation from Vattel is only as to
the power of exclusion, that is, from coming to the country
The citation from Phillimore is to the same effect. As there
stated, the government allowing the introduction of aliens
may prescribe the conditions on which they shall be allowed
to remain, the conditions being imposed whenever they enter
the country There is no dispute about the power of Congress to prevent the landing of aliens in the country, the
question is as to the power of Congress to deport them with-

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

out regard to the guaranties of the Constitution. The statement that in England the power to expel aliens has always
been recognized and often exercised, and the only question
that has ever been as to this power is whether it could be exercised by the King without the consent of Parliament, is, I
think, not strictly accurate. The citations given by Mr. Ohoate
in his brief show conclusively, it seems to me, that deportation
from the realm has not been exercised in England since Magna
Charta, except in punishment for crime, or as a measure in
view of existing or anticipated hostilities. But even if that
power were exercised by every government of Europe, it
would have no bearing in these cases. It may be admitted
that the power has been exercised by the various governments
of Europe. Spain expelled the Moors, England, in the reign
of Edward I, banished fifteen thousand Jews I and Louis
XIV, in 1685, by revoking the Edict of Nantes, which gave
religious liberty to Protestants in France, drove out the
Huguenots. Nor does such severity of European governments belong only to the distant past. Within three years
Russia has banished many thousands of Jews, and apparently
intends the expulsion of the whole race -an act of barbarity
which has aroused the indignation of all Christendom. Such
was the feeling in this country that, friendly as our relations
with Russia had always beQn, President Harrison felt compelled to call the attention of Congress to it in his message in
1891 as a fit subject for national remonstrance. Indeed, all the
instances mentioned have been condemned for their barbarity
and cruelty, and no power to perpetrate such barbarity is to
be implied from the nature of our government, and certainly
is not found in any delegated powers under the Constitution.
The government of the United States is one of limited and
delegated powers. It takes nothing from the usages or the
former action of European governments, nor does it take any
power by any supposed inherent sovereignty There is a
great deal of confusion in the use of the word "sovereignty"
1 The Jews during his reign were cruelly despoiled, and in 1290 ordered,
under penalty of death, to quit England forever before a certain day.American Encyclopmdia, vol. 6, p. 434.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

Sovereignty or supreme power is in this
country vested in the people, and only in the people. By
them certain sovereign powers have been delegated to the
government of the United States and other sovereign powers
reserved to the States or to themselves. This is not a matter
of inference and argument, but is the express declaration of
the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution, passed to avoid
any misinterpretation of the powers of the general government. That amendment declares that "The powers not
delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States, respectively, or to the people." When, therefore, power is exercised
by Congress, authority for it must be found in express terms
in the Constitution, or in the means necessary or proper for
the execution of the power expressed. If it cannot be thus
found, it does not exist.
It will be seen by its provisions that the sixth section recograzes the right of certain Chinese laborers to remain in.the
United States, but to render null that right it declares that
if within one year after the passage of the act any Chinese
laborer shall have neglected, failed, or refused to comply with
the provisions of the act to obtain a certificate of residence, or
shall be found within the jurisdiction of the United States
without a certificate of residence, he shall be deemed and
adjudged to be unlawfully within the United States, and may
be arrested by any United States customs official, collector
of internal revenue or his deputies, a United States marshal or
his deputies, and taken before a United States judge, whose
duty it shall be to order that he be deported from the United
States, unless he shall establish clearly to the satisfaction
of the judge that by reason of accident, sickness, or other
unavoidable cause he has been unable to secure his certificate,
and to the satisfaction of the judge by at least one credible
white witness that he was a resident of the United States at
the time of the passage of the act. His deportation is thus
imposed for neglect to obtain a certificate of residence, from
which he can only escape by showing his inability to secure
it from one of the causes named. That is the punishment
by law writers.

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.

759

Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

for his neglect, and that being of an infamous character
can only be imposed after indictment, trial, and conviction.
If applied to a citizen, none of the justices of this court
would hesitate a moment to pronounce it illegal. Had the
punishment been a fine, or anything else than of an infamous character, it might have been imposed without
indictment, but not so now, unless we hold that a foreigner from a country at peace with us, though domiciled
by the consent of our government, is withdrawn from all
the guaranties of due process of law prescribed by the Constitution, when charged with an offence to which the grave
punishment designated is affixed.
The punishment is beyond all reason in its severity It is
out of all proportion to the alleged offence. It is cruel and
unusual. As to its cruelty, nothing can exceed a forcible
deportation from a country of one's residence, and the breaking up of all the relations of friendship, family and business
there contracted. The laborer may be seized at a distance
from his home, his family and his business, and taken before
the judge for his condemnation, without permission to visit
his home, see his family, or complete any unfinished business.
]vlr. MNadison well pictures its character in his powerful
denunciation of the alien law of 1798 in his celebrated report
upon the resolutions, from which we have cited, and concludes, as we have seen, that if a banishment of the sort
described be not a -Purtshment,and among the severest of
.punshments,it will be difflcult to smagne a doom to whqch
the name can be applied.
Again, when taken before a United States judge, he is reqmred, in order to avoid the doom declared, to establish clearly
to the satisfaction of the judge that by reason of accident, sickness, or other unavoidable cause, he was unable to secure his
certificate, and that he was a resident of the United States
at the time, by at least one credible white wdtness. Here the
government undertakes to exact of the party arrested the
testimony of a witness of a particular color, though conclusive
and incontestible testimony from others may be adduced.
The law might as well have said, that unless the laborer

OCTOBER TERMV, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Field, J.

should also present a particular person as a witness who could
not be produced, from sickness, absence, or other cause, such as
the archbishop of the State, to establish the fact of residence,
he should be held to be unlawfully within the United States.
There are numerous other objections to the provisions of
the act under consideration. Every step in the procedure provided, as truly said by counsel, tramples upon some constitutional right. Grossly it violates the Fourth Amendment,
which declares that "The right of the people to be secure
in their persons,
against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrant shall issue but
upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and
particularly describing the
persons
to be
seized."
The act provides for the seizure of the person without oath
or affirmation or warrant, and without showing any probable
cause by the officials mentioned. The arrest, as observed by
counsel, involves a search of his person for the certificate
which he is required to have always with him. Who will
have the hardihood and effrontery to say this is not an "unreasonable search and seizure of the person" 9 Until now it
has never been asserted by any court or judge of high authority that foreigners domiciled in this country by the consent of
our government could be deprived of the securities of this
amendment, that their persons could be subjected to unreasonable searches and seizures, and that they could be arrested
without warrant upon probable cause supported by oath or
affirmation.
I will not pursue the subject further. The decision of the
court and the sanction it would give to legislation depriving
resident aliens of the guaranties of the Constitution fills me
with apprehensions. Those guaranties are of priceless value
to every one resident m the country, whether citizen or alien.
I cannot but regard the decision as a blow against constitutional liberty, when it declares that Congress has the right to
disregard the guaranties of the Constitution intended for the
protection of all men, domiciled in the country with the consehit of the government, in their rights of person and property

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.
Issenting Opmion

761

Fuller, C. 3.

How far will its legislation go? The unnaturalized resident
feels it to-day, but if Congress can disregard the guaranties
with respect to any one domiciled in this country with its consent, it may disregard the guaranties with respect to naturalized
citizens. What assurance have we that it may not declare
that naturalized citizens of a particular country cannot remain
in the United States after a certain day, unless they have in
their possession a certificate that they are of good moral character and attached to the principles of our Constitution, which
certificate they must obtain from a collector of internal revenue upon the testimony of at least one competent witness of
a class or nationality to be designated by the government 2
What answer could the naturalized citizen in that case make
to his arrest for deportation, which cannot be urged in behalf
of the Chinese laborers of to-day 2
I am of the opinion that the orders of the court below
should be reversed, and the petitioners should be discharged.
MR.

CHiEF JUSTICE FULLER

dissenting.

I also dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court
m these cases.
If the protection of the Constitution extends to Chinese
laborers who are lawfully within and entitled to remain m
the United States under previous treaties and laws, then the
question whether this act of Congress so far as it relates to
them is in conflict with that instrument, is a judicial question,
and its determination belongs to the judicial department.
However reluctant courts may be to pass upon the constitutionality of legislative acts, it is of the very essence of judicial
duty to do so when the discharge of that duty is properly
invoked.
I entertam no doubt that the provisions of the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments, which forbid that any person shall
be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law, are in the language of Mr. Justice Matthews, already
quoted by my brother Brewer, "universal in their application
to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction, without

762

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Fuller, C.J.

regard to any differences of race, of color, or of nationality,"
and although in Tick Wo's case only the validity of a mumcipal ordinance was involved, the rule laid down as much
applies to Congress under the Fifth Amendment as to the
States under the Fourteenth. The right to remain in the
United States, in the enjoyment of all the rights, privileges,
immunities, and exemptions accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most favored nation, is a valuable right, and certainly a right which cannot be taken away without taking
away the liberty of its possessor. This cannot be done by
mere legislation.
The argument is that friendly aliens, who have lawfully
acquired a domicil in this country, are entitled to avail themselves of the safeguards of the Constitution only while perinitted to remain, and that the power to expel them and the
manner of its exercise are unaffected by that instrument. It
is difficult to see how this can be so in view of the operation
of the power upon the existing rights of individuals, and to
say that the residence of the alien, when invited and secured
by treaties and laws, isheld in subordination to the exertion
against hn, as an alien, of the absolute and unqualified power
asserted, is to import a condition not recognized by the fundamental law Conceding that the exercise of the power to
exclude is committed to the political department, and that the
denial of entrance is not necessarily the subject of judicial
cognizance, the exercise of the power to expel, the manner in
which the right to remain may be terminated, rest on different ground, since limitations exist or are imposed upon the
deprivation of that which has been lawfully acquired. And
while the general government isinvested, in respect of foreign countries and their subjects or citizens, with the powers
necessary to the maintenance of its absolute independence and
security throughout its entire territory, it cannot, in virtue of
any delegated power, or power implied therefrom, or of a supposed inherent sovereignty, arbitrarily deal with persons lawfully within the peace of its dominion. But the act before us
is not an act to abrogate or repeal treaties or laws in respect
of Chinese laborers entitled to remain in the United States, or

FONG YUE TING v. UNITED STATES.

763

Dissenting Opinion. Fuller, C.J.

to expel them from the country, and no such intent can be
imputed to Congress. As to them, registration for the purpose of identification is required, and the deportation denounced for failure to do so is by way of punishment to
coerce compliance with that requisition. No euphuism can
disguise the character of the act in this regard. It directs
the performance of a judicial function in a particular way,
and inflicts punishment without a judicial trial. It is, in
effect, a legislative sentence of bamshment, and, as such, absolutely void. Moreover, it contains within it the germs of the
assertion of an unlimited and arbitrary power, in general,
incompatible with the immutable principles of justice, mconsistent with the nature of our government, and in conflict
with the written Constitution by which that government was
created and those principles secured.

