PORTER v. SABIN.
Statement of the Case.

PORTER v. SABIN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 221.

Argued April 19, 20, 1893. -Decided

May 15,1893.

After a state court has appointed a receiver of all the property of a corporation, and while the receivership exists, stockholders of the corporation cannot bring a suit against the officers in a court of the United
States for fraudulent misappropriation of its property, without making
the receiver, as well as the corporation, a party to the suit; although
the state court has denied a petition of the receiver for authority to
bring the suit, as well as an application of the stockholders for leave to
make him a party to it.

Tnis was a bill in equity, filed September 9, 1887, and
amended January 7, 1888, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Minnesota, by Henry H. Porter and
Ransom R. Cable, citizens of Illinois, and stockholders in the
Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company, a corporation of Minnesota, in behalf of themselves and of all other
stockholders in that corporation, against Dwight M. Sabin, its
former president, and Joseph C. O'Gorman, its former auditor
and treasurer, and both citizens of Minnesota. The amended
bill made that corporation, and the Minnesota Thresher Alanufacturing Company, also a corporation of Minnesota, parties
defendant, and alleged in substance as follows
That Sabin and O'Gorman, as such officers of the Northwestern Company, during the period from 1882 to May 10,
1884, had the entire control and management of its business,
and, without the authority or knowledge of the corporation
or of its board of directors, or of these plaintiffs, fraudulently
issued large amounts of its commercial paper for the benefit of
other companies, and, in order to conceal their fraudulent
transactions, made false entries in the books of the corporation, by reason of all which it became insolvent and its capital
was wholly lost.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

That on May 10, 1884, upon proceedings commenced against
the corporation by some of its creditors in a court of the
State of Minnesota, Edward S. Brown was appointed receiver of its estate and effects, and had since had the custody
and possession thereof.
That on September 6, 1887, the plaintiffs caused to be presented to the state court a petition of the receiver, stating that
he had been requested by the plaintiffs and others to commence a suit against Sabin and O'Gorman to recover from
them such sums of money and the value of such property as
had been lost to the corporation by their official misconduct,
and did not deem it expedient to do so without the sanction
of the court, and praying the court to make such order in the
premises as it might deem expedient, that the petition of the
receiver was opposed by a majority of the stockholders of
the corporation, acting under the influence and in the interest
of Sabin and O'Gorman, and was denied by the court.
"That, because of the unauthorized and fraudulent acts of
said officers as aforesaid, and of the loss sustained by the
Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company in consequence thereof, a right of action exists in favor of said corporation against said officers to recover the amount of such
loss, that, upon the appointment of a receiver of said corporation as aforesaid, such receiver was primarily the proper
person to bring such a suit, that having made application to
said receiver to bring such suit, which application has been
duly presented to the court and authority to bring such action
having been refused," these plaintiffs, "acting in their own
behalf, and in behalf of the other stockholders of said corporation if they should choose to come m and be made parties to
these proceedings, have the right to maintain said action for
the common benefit of all parties interested in the result
thereof."
That after the filing of the original bill, and on- the same
day, the plaintiffs applied to the state court for an order perinitting the receiver to be made a party to the bill, that the
application was opposed by Henry D. Hyde, claiming to
represent creditors and stockholders, and particularly the

PORTER v. SABIN.
Statement of the Case.

Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Company, and that the
court demed that application, as well as a further application
then made by the plaintiffs to exclude, from a contemplated
order of sale then pending before it, the cause of action set
out in the bill, and all other actions which stockholders might
maintain in right of the corporation.
That the Northwestern Company had never been dissolved
by any legal authority, and was still in existence, but that
all its property and tangible assets had been placed in the
hands of the receiver appointed by the state court, and under
an order of that court had been sold by public auction as
a whole, and delivered to the purchaser.
That the Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Company was
organized, under a general statute of Minnesota, for the purpose of purchasing at judicial sale all the stock and assets of
the Northwestern Company, including its good will, and of
continuing the business of that company, except the manufacture of cars, that Sabin and O'Gorman, for the purpose of
suppressing inquiry into their official acts and misconduct,
obtained control of the. direction and management of the
Minnesota Company, and procured that company to apply to
the state court for an order directing the sale of the assets
and rights of action of the Northwestern Company, as a
whole, that the court, notwithstanding the plaintiffs "protested against such sale of all of said assets, and particularly
the sale of such rights of action as the stockholders would
have a right to maintain in the name of said corporation if
the corporation itself was unable or unwilling to do so, or
if the receiver was not authorized to do so," made an order for
the sale of the entire assets of the corporation as a whole,
described in the order of sale as follows "All the stock,
property, things in action, and effects of the defendant, the
Northwestern Manufacturing and Car Company, of which E.
S. Brown has been appointed receiver in this action, or to
which the receiver may be entitled as the same shall exist at
the time of such sale, including all real estate, buildings,
machinery, tools, patterns, fixtures, materials, articles manufactured, unmanufactured, or in process of manufacture, cash

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellants.

in hand, book accounts, letters patent, choses in action, bills
receivable, and all other property, assets, claims, liens and
demands of every name and nature, either in law or equity,
and wherever situate," that said property was accordingly
sold on October 27, 1887, to Hyde, as agent and trustee for
the Minnesota Company/for the sum of $1,105,000; that the
court afterwards confirmed the sale, and directed the receiver,
upon payment of the purchase money, to deliver to the purchaser all the assets included in the order of sale, which had
not yet been delivered, and that the Minnesota Company
was a party to the fraudulent scheme of Sabin and O'Gorman,
and was not a purchaser in good faith, and acquired no title
to the right of action involved in this suit.
"That the rights of action involved in this suit are of such
a character that they can only be prosecuted by the corporation or its receiver or some one or more of its stockholders,
and that it is not such an action or right of action as the corporation itself or its receiver, acting under the direction of the
court, could sell or transfer to a purchaser so as to qualify
such purchaser with the right to maintain such action and
thereby deprive the stockholders of their rights in the
premises."
The bill prayed for an account against Sabin and O'Gorman,
and for payment and distribution of the sums thereupon
found due, and that the Minnesota Company be declared to
have no interest in this cause of action, or, at most, an interest
subordinate to that of the plaintiffs and other stockholders
who might become parties, and for further relief.
The defendants demurred to the bill 1st. For want of
jurisdiction, because the state court which appointed the receiver was the only court having jurisdiction in the premises.
2d. For want of equity 3d. Because the receiver was a
necessary party
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and dismissed
the bill. 36 Fed. Rep. 475. The plaintiffs appealed to this
court.

Xr J M. Flower for appellants.

PORTER v. SABIN.
Argument for Appellants.

I. The amended bill sets forth an equitable right of action.
It is well settled that fraudulent or unauthorized acts of
directors or officers of a corporation are injuries to the corporation, to remedy which the corporation may bring suit, as if
the wrongs were inflicted by third parties. The transactions
which brought about the condition of affairs described in the
bill were very numerous, and to ascertain and establish the
extent of the losses inflicted upon the company thereby, as
well as the methods adopted to cover up and conceal the
same, involves the examination of very long and complicated
accounts. Equity will, unquestionably, take jurisdiction on
the ground of fraud, the necessity for an accounting, and
because the rights and interests of numerous stockholders, to
say nothing of creditors, are at stake, for which there is really
no remedy elsewhere.
II. The complainants are entitled to bring this suit. When
corporate directors have committed breaches of trust, either
by their frauds, ultra vires acts or negligence, and the corporation is unable or unwilling to institute a suit to remedy the
wrong, a single stockholder may institute that suit, suing on
behalf of himself and other stockholders and for the benefit
of the corporation, to bring about a redress of the wrong done
directly to the corporation, and indirectly to all stockholders.
Atwool v Merryweather, L. ZR. 5 Eq. 46d n, 468, -Dodge v
Wooleey, 18 How 331, Hawes v. Oakland, 10d U. S. 450.
As to when a formal demand upon a corporation, or its
board of directors, to bring suit, may be dispensed with by
the stockholders before commencing suit, the general doctrine
seems to be, that when fraud and acts ultra vires are complained of, and the directory, or a majority of the stockholders,
or the management of the corporation, is under the control
of the guilty parties, the court will not require that demand
should be made upon them to institute an action, in the name
of the corporation, to convict themselves of fraud, before the
jurisdiction of an equitable tribunal can be invoked by an
innocent and injured stockholder. Hawes v. Oakland, 104
U. S. 450,[Tazewell Co. v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 12
Fed. IRep. 752, Heath v. Erse Railway, 8 ]Blatchford, 34:7'.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

III. The receiver is not a necessary party to this suit. The
circumstances surrounding this case are so exceptional in ther
character that no settled law of adjudication ought to be arbitrarily applied, if it be within the legitimate exercise of the
powers of the court to create an exceptional rule which, while
protecting the delinquent parties in the enjoyment of all their
legal rights and providing for an equitable distribution of the
fund, shall afford ample opportunity for a judicial investigation and determination of the fraudulent acts complained of.
fr

Cushman-K. Damns for appellees.

M1r Frank B. Kellogg filed a brief for Sabin and O'Gorman, appellees.
-Mr Frank TV l. Cutcheon fied a brief for The Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Co., appellee.
MR. JusTicE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The right to maintain a suit against the officers of a corporation for fraudulent misappropriation of its property is a
right of the corporation, and it is only when the corporation
will not bring the suit, that it can be brought by one or more
stockholders in behalf of all. Hawes v Oakland, 104 U S.
450. The suit, when brought by stockholders, is still a suit to
enforce a right of the corporation, and to recover a sum of
money due to the corporation, and the corporation is a necessary party, in order that it may be bouna by the judgment.
Davenportv Dows, 18 Wall. 626. If the corporation becomes
insolvent, and a receiver of all its estate and effects is appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the right to
enforce this and all other rights of property of the corporation
vests in the receiver, and he is the proper party to bring suit,
and, if he does not himself sue, should properly be made a
defendant to any suit by stockholders in the right of the corporation. All this is admitted in the plaintiffs' bill, as well as
in the brief and argument submitted in their behalf.

PORTER v. SABIN.
Opinion of the Court.

The grounds on which they attempt to maintain this suit
are that the court which appointed the receiver has demed
his petition for authority to bring it, as well as an application
of the plaintiffs for leave to make him a party to this bill.
Their position rests on a misunderstanding of the nature of
the office and duties of a receiver appointed by a court exercising chancery powers, and of the extent of the jurisdiction
and authority of the court itself.
In Brtnekerhof v Bostwtck, 88 N. Y 52, and Ackerman, v
Halsey, 10 Stewart, (37 N. J Eq.) 356, cited for the plaintiffs,
in which stockholders of a national bank were permitted to
bring such a suit when a receiver had refused to bring it, the
receiver was not appointed by a judicial tribunal, but by the
comptroller of the currency, an executive officer.
When a court exercising jurisdiction in equity .appoints a
receiver of all the property of a corporation, the court assumes
the administration of the estate, the possession of the receiver
is the possession of the court, and the court itself holds and
administers the estate, through the receiver as its officer, for
the benefit of those whom the court shall ultimately adjudge
to be entitled" to it. Wiswall v Sa pnson, 14 How 52, 65,
Peale v Phipps,14 How 368, 374, Booth v Clark, 17 How
322, 331, Unzon. Bank v Eansas City Bank, 136 U. S. 223,
Thompson v Phenzx Ins. 6o., 136 U. S. 287, 297.
It is for that court, in its discretion, to decide whether it
will determine for itself all claims of or against the receiver,
or will allow them to be litigated elsewhere. It may direct
claims in favor of the corporation to be sued on by the
receiver in other tribunals, or may leave him to adjust and
settle them without suit, as in its judgment may be most
beneficial to those interested in the estate. Any claim against
the receiver or the corporation, the court may permit to be
put in suit in another tribunal against the receiver, or may
reserve to itself the determination of, and no suit, unless
expressly authorized by statute, can be brought against the
receiver without the permission of the court which appointed
him. Barton v Barbour, 104 U. S. 126, Texas & Pac?.#c
Railway v Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 601.

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The reasons are yet stronger for not allowing a suit against
a receiver appointed by a state court to be maintained, or the
administration by that court of the estate in the receiver's
hands to be interfered with, by a court of the United States,
deriving its authority from another government, though exercising jurisdiction over the same territory The whole property of the corporation within the jurisdiction of the court
which appointed the receiver, including all its rights of action,
except so far as already lawfully disposed of under orders of
that court, remains in its custody, to be administered and
distributed by it. Until the administration of the estate has
been completed and the receivership terminated, no court of
the one government can by collateral suit assume to deal
with rights of property or of action, constituting part of the
estate within the exclusive jurisdiction and control of the
courts of the other. Wiswall v Sampson, Peal v Phupps
and Barton v. Barbour, above cited, Williams v Bencdict,
8 How 107, Pulliamv Osborne, 17 How 471, 475, People's
Bank v. Calhoun, 102 U. S. 256, Hezdritter v Elizabeth Oil
Cloth Co., 112 U. S. 294, J& re Tyler, ante, 164.
The state court, upon further hearing or information, may
hereafter reconsider its former orders, so far as no rights have
lawfully vested under them, and may permit its receiver to
sue or be sued upon any controverted claim. But should it
prefer not to do so, the right of action of the corporation
against its delinquent officers, like other property and rights
of the corporation, will remain within the exclusive jurisdiction
of that court, so long as the receivership exists.
It is not material to the decision of this case whether the
sale of the entire assets of the corporation by order of
the state court did or did not pass this right of action to
the purchaser. If it did, neither the corporation, nor the receiver or any other person asserting this right in its behalf,
can maintain an action thereon. If it did not, the right
of action remains part of the estate of the corporation
within the exclusive custody and jurisdiction of the state
court.
Decree aflrmed.

