CHANDLER v. CALUMET & HECLA MINING 00.

79

Statement of the Case.

CHANDLER v. CALUMET AND HECLA MINING
COMPANY
ERROI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 102.

Argued April 6,7,1893. -Decided

April 24,1893.

Swamp lands in Michigan which were not embraced in the list of such
lands, made by the Surveyor General February 12, 1853, as coming
within the provisions of the grant to the State of September 28, 1850, 9
Stat. 514, c. 84, which list was approved by the Secretary of the Interior
January 11, 1854, and which lands were patented to the State March 3,
1856, as so listed and approved, were not included within the said grant
of September 28, 1850.
These several official acts, by the proper officers, operated as an adjudication
as to what were swamp lauds within the grant of September 28, 1850,
and to exclude contradictory parol evidence.
The grant by the State, May 25, 1855, of the land in controversy here,
operated to convey it to the grantee, whether the State's title was
acquired under the swamp land act, or under the grant of August 6,
1852, 10 Stat. 35, c. 92, for the purpose of building a ship canal.
Railroad Co. v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95, explained, qualified and distinguished
from this case.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff in
error, a citizen of Illinois, against the defendant in

error, a

Michigan corporation, to recover a tract of forty acres of land
in Houghton County, Michigan, particularly described as the
southeast quarter of

the northwest

quarter of section 23,

township 56 north, range 33 west.
Both parties to the controversy derive their title from the
State of M ichigan, the plaintiff under a patent of the State
issued to him on November 3, 1887, and the defendant by
various mesne conveyances, under a state patent issued to the
St. Mary's Falls Ship Canal Company, a New York corporation, on May 25, 1855. The material and uncontroverted facts
of the case, on which the questions involved depend, are the
following. By the act of Congress, approved September 28,
1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 81, known as the swamp land act, there

OCTOBERl

TERTIA,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

was granted to the State of Michigan the whole of the swamp
and overflowed lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation,
within the State, and it was made the duty of the Secretary
of the Interior to make lists and plats of such lands, and transmit them to the governor of the State, and cause patents
therefor to issue conveying such lands in fee simple. After
the passage of this act the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, by correspondence with the authorities of the State,
suggested, through the surveyor general thereof, as a mode or
method of selecting or segregating the swamp from the other
public lands, that the field-notes of the United States surveys
of lands should be accepted by the State as the basis of identification of the swamp lands which were intended to be granted
by Congress. An act of the legislature of Michigan, passed
June 28, 1851, No. 187 Sess. Laws, 1851, p. 322, accepted the
grant, and adopted, as suggested by the Secretary of the Interior, or the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the
field-notes -of the United States surveys as a basis upon which
the swamp lands should be identified and segregated. The
surveyor general, on February 12, 1853, made lists of lands
which he ascertained to be swamp and within the provisions
of the grant, from the field-notes so agreed upon. Those lists
were transmitted to the Secretary of the Interior, and by him
approved January 11, 1854, and under date of February 24,
1854, a copy of said lists was certified by the Commissioner of
the General Land Office to the governor of the State, and
thereafter, on March 3, 1856, a patent was issued to the State
for the lands described in said lists. The lists of the lands so
selected and approved to the State were lodged in the Michigan land office. The lands thus selected and patented to the
State, while embracing some portion of township 56 north,
range 33 west, did not include the land in controversy
By an act of Congress, approved August 26, 1852, 10 Stat.
35, c. 92, there was granted to the State of Michigan, for the
purpose of building a ship canal around the Falls of St. Mary's,
"seven hundred and fifty thousand acres of public lands, to
be selected in subdivisiohs, agreeable to the United States surveys, by an agent or agents to be appointed by the governor

OHANDLER%v. CALUMET & REOLA. MINING CO-

81

Statement of the Case.

of said State, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, from any land within said State subject to private
entry"1 The State accepted this grant by acts of its legislature approved respectively February 5 and February 12, 1853,
Session Laws 1853, Nos. 38 and 61, pp. 48, 86, and authorized
commissioners of the State to enter into a contract for the
building of such canal. In pursuance of this authority a contract was entered into between the State and certain designated parties for the construction of the ship canal, by the
terms of which the parties undertaking its construction, or
their assignees, were to receive from the State of Michigan
7.50,000 acres of land at $1.25 per acre, to be located under
the provisions of the act of August 26, 1852. The terms of
this contract need not be specially set forth, as no question
arises thereon.
The parties undertaking the construction of the canal subsequently assigned and transferred all their rights and privileges in the contract to the St. Mary's Falls Ship Canal Company By the act of the legislature authorizing the contract
for the construction of the canal, the State undertook the
selection of the lands under said grant, and the contractors
were to receive the lands so selected in payment for the work
of building the canal. The fifth section of the act of the
state legislature provided that "when and as fast as the lands
shall have been selected and located, an accurate description
thereof, certified by the persons appointed to select the same,
shall be filed in the office of the commissioner of the state
land office, whose duty it shall be to transmit to the Commissioner of the General Land Office a true copy of said list, and
to designate and mark upon the books and plats in his office
the said lands as St. Mary's Canal lands."
By section 6 it was provided that after the completion of
the canal, within the time specified, to the satisfaction of, and
the acceptance thereof by, the comnnssioners, the governor,
and engineer, and a certificate of that fact filed in the office
of the state land office, it was made the duty of said commissioner "forthwith to make certificates of purchase for so much
of said lands as by the terms of the contract for the construcVOL. CXLX-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

tion of said canal are to be conveyed for the purpose of defraying its costs and the expenses hereinbefore provided for,
which certificates shall run to such persons and for such portions of said lands so selected and to be conveyed as the contractor may designate, and shall forthwith be delivered to the
secretary of State, and patents shall immediately be issued
thereon, as in other cases."
The St. Mary's Falls Ship Canal Company, as the assignee
of the construction contract, completed the canal and became
entitled to the consideration which the State was to pay
therefor.
The agents appointed by the State to select and locate the
lands granted for the purpose of building the canal made
selections to the amount required, the list of which was filed
in the general land office of the State, and was certified to the
Secretary of the Interior, who, under date of January 24, 1855,
duly approved the same to the State of Michigan, under the
act of Congress of August 26, 1852. The list of selected
lands under this grant, and so approved by the Department
of the Interior, included the demanded premises, and on
May 25, 1855, the governor of the State, in pursuance of the
foregoing legislation and contract on the subject, issued a
patent to the St. Mary's Falls Ship Canal Company for a large
portion of these selected lands, including therein, by particular
description, the premises in controversy, which by mesne conveyances passed to the defendant in error, which entered into
possession of the same, and was in actual possession thereof at
the commencement of the present suit. This conveyance was
duly recorded, and after the expiration of five years from the
date of the patent, during which they were exempt from taxation, the lands so patented to the canal company have been
continually subject to taxes by the State.
It is shown from the foregoing statement of facts, and it is
conceded, that the demanded premises had never been selected
as a part of the swamp lands granted to the State, nor had the
same ever been approved to the State as such, and that no list
or plat of swamp lands in Michigan, made by, or by the
authority of, the Secretary of the Interior, contained or

CHANDLER v. CALUMET & HECLA MINING CO.

83

Statement of the Case.

described the tract in question as swamp land, although a
portion of the land in the vicinity thereof, and in the same
township, was included in the lists of such lands which were
selected and approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
It thus appears that the plaintiff and the defendant have
each a conveyance from the State of Michigan for the
particular tract of land in controversy, and that the conveyance to the defendant in error was prior in time to the conveyance to the plaintiff m error. The latter, however, claims
that the demanded premises were a part of the swamp and
overflowed lands granted to the State by the act of Congress
of September 28, 1850, and as such were conveyed to him by
the patent of the State issued on November 3, 1887, and that
he thereby acquired a title to the same, superior to that which
the defendant in error acquired under the prior patent to the
canal company, through which the defendant in error derives
its title. In support of this contention it is urged that the
swamp land act was in effect a grant v.prcesenti, so that the
title of the State to such lands dated from the date of that act,
and consequently the State did not and could not acquire title
to the tract in question under the act of August 26, 1852.
On the other hand, the defendant in error insists that the
act of the State and of the Department of the Interior, in the
selection of lands under the swamp land act, amounted to an
adjudication or a determination on the part of the Department of the Interior, that the parcel of land in question was
not embraced within the provisions of the act of 1850, and
that the same, having been affirmatively and particularly
selected and certified to the State, under the grant of August
26, 1852, was a direct adjudication, that it came properly
within the canal grant, that the legal effect and operation of
the two selections, considered together, made with the consent
and concurrence of the State, was to exclude, by implication, the particular premises here involved from the operation
of the former grant, and to expressly include the same within
the latter grant, and that this adjudication or determination
of the department cannot be collaterally attacked or called in
question in an action at law The defendant in error further

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

contends that, even conceding that the title of the State to
the lands in question was derived under the act of 1850, it
acquired the superior title thereto, under and by virtue of the
conveyance made to the St. Mary's Falls Ship Canal Company
by the State's patent of May 25, 1855, which operated to pass
to said company whatever title the State had to the premises
in question, independently of the source from which it had
derived its title.
On the trial of the case by the court and jury the plaintiff,
to maintain the issues on his part, introduced his patent from
the State, and offered oral evidence to prove that the tract
conveyed thereby, and involved in the suit, with the exception
of about seven acres thereof, was in fact swamp and overflowed
land, being wet and unfit for cultivation, within the meaning
of the swamp land act of Congress, and was so at the time of
the approval of the act. To this evidence the defendant objected, and the court, reserving its ruling thereon until after
the defendant had introduced its proof, sustained the objection,
and refused to allow the evidence to go to the jury, to which
ruling the plaintiff excepted.
After all the evidence in the case had been introduced, the
plaintiff, by his counsel, requested the court to direct the jury
to return a verdict in his favor. This the court refused to do,
and instructed the jury to bring in a verdict for the defendant,
which was accordingly done, and judgment was entered
thereon, to which the plaintiff excepted, and to reverse this
judgment the present writ of error is prosecuted.
The opinion of the court below is reported in 36 Fed. Rep.
665, and its action in rejecting the oral testimony and in
directing a verdict for the defendant was rested upon two
grounds First, that after the Secretary of the Interior had
discharged his duty and approved the list of swamp lands,
made, in accordance with his suggestion, from field-notes of
government surveys with the consent of the State, which
selection and identification did not include the parcel of land
in question, although embracing other lands in the same township, there was in effect a determination that the land in controversy was not covered by or embraced within the swamp

CHANDLER v. CALUMTET & HECLA MIING CO.

85

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

land grant, and, secondly, that the State, having accepted
the parcel of land in question, under the grant of 1852, and
having conveyed the same to the canal company, was estopped
from thereafter asserting any title thereto.
.fb James - .Redington and Mi J .M. WTHson, (with
whom was AMr Frank E Robson on the brief,) for plaintiff
in error.
I. Upon the facts shown by the record the title of the
plaintiff in error is good, and he was entitled to a verdict and
judgment without oral proof of the actual character of the
land.
That the swamp land act of 1850 operated as a grant sn
presenti to the States then in existence, including the State
of Michigan, and vested title as of the date of its passage, is
settled by abundant and uninterrupted authority Railroad
Co. v Smith, 9 Wall. 95, French v Fyan, 93 U. S. 169,
.Martin v .Marbe, 97 U S. 345, Bice v Sioux City &c. Railroad, 110 U S. 695, TFrzght v. Roseberry, 121 U S. 488.
Starting with this fundamental consideration, it is entirely
clear that if the tract in controversy is shown by the record
to have been swamp and overflowed at the date of the act of
September 28, 1850, then the plaintiff has the paramount and
conclusive legal title. In other words, if by any proper and
legitimate means, identification of the tract in question as
swamp and overflowed land appears in the record, then the
charge of the court below was error, the jury should have
been charged to find for the plaintiff and the judgment of
this court should remand the case for new trial.
Such an identification, independently of any present investigation as to the fact, appears in the record. The Surveyor
General, while the official plat of this land was still within
his custody, placed thereon the usual official mark to show
that the entire forty-acre tract was to be classed as swamp
and so returned to the General Land Office. There can be
no reasonable doubt that it was the intention of that officer
at the time of making up his list to be reported to the Coin-

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintif in Error.

missioner, to include this particular forty acres as swamp,
and that its omission from his list and the consequent fact
that no patent has ever issued thereon, were results of a mere
clerical mistake. That plat and the papers on which it was
based constitute the real adjudication.
It follows that the tract in controversy was fully identified
and set apart as swamp by the rule of determination adopted
by the government, and that this identification, according to
this rule, was complete and perfect. This being so, the failure
of the Surveyor General to list and of the Secretary of the
Interior to patent the tract can have no effect upon the situation, for a patent was not necessary to pass the title. Wilcox
v Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, Grtgnon's Zessee v Astor, 2 How
319, ]?etckart v .Felps, 6 Wall. 160,. Langdeau v. Hanes, 21
Wall. 521, Ryan v Garter, 93 U S. 78, 3rorrow v Whztney,
95 U. S. 551, JVl'tney v .J.lorrow, 112 U. S. 693.
II. But the clain of the plaintiff rests upon even more cer
tam foundation. It is submitted with the utmost confidence
that independently of any question of prior identification, the
plaintiff had the right, by parol testimony, to prove the character of the tract in question at the date of the swamp grant
and thus identify it as a piece or parcel of land which passed
to the State, under said grant, on the 28th day of September,
1850.
The field-notes of the survey and the annotation made upon
the township plat in the Surveyor General's office were an
adjudication as to the character of the land, or, upon the contrary, they were not. If they were such an adjudication, then
the tract is already identified and title to it vested in 1850.
If they are not such an adjudication, then, in respect of this
tract, the Secretary of the Interior has utterly failed to make
the identification required by the act, and it is competent for
the State or her grantee to do so by parol testimony in any
court and in any form of proceeding where it may be material.
This question is by no means a new one in this court. On
the contrary, it has repeatedly arisen, and the court has uniformly recognized this right to resort to parol testimonv,

CHANDLER v. CALUMET & HEOLA MINING CO. 87
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

under the circumstances stated. In at least three well-considered cases this doctrine has been positively and directly declared to be law Railroadl Co. v Smsth, 9 Wall. 95, _rench
fright v 1?oseberry, 121 U S. 488.
v Fyan, 93 U S. 169,
(See also 3lartw v Marks, 97 U S.345.)
Here are three decisions of this court fully recognizing the
proposition that parol evidence is admissible to identify lands
falling within the swamp grant. In Railroad Co. v Snmth
that was the sole and only question presented, and there is no
distinction or difference whatever between that case and the
case at bar, except that in the former the testimony was
offered for the defendant instead of the plaintiff in ejectment.
In Fench v Fyan the general doctrine is again clearly
announced, and in Wright v Roselerry the principle is reiterated with emphasis after elaborate consideration and discussion of every authority bearing on the subject.
The doctrine thus announced and upon which we rely is
that where the Secretary has neglected or failed, under the
provisions of the second section of the act of 1850, by some
legal or proper method to identify a tract of land which, as
matter of fact, -was swamp and overflowed in 1850, it is competent for the State or its grantee, m any forum and in any
form of action where it may be material, to establish the real
fact by parol testimony and thus identify land as inuring to
the State under the grant. This, we submit, is the clear doctrine of the above authorities and conclusive of the question
at bar.
We do not deny the general proposition that the Secretary
of the Interior was created, by the act of 1850, a special tribunal with jurisdiction to determine the character of the lands
to inure to the State under that grant, and that when he has
once finally acted upon a particular case, duly and properly
presented, his decision is conclusive as a finding of fact. This
is undoubtedly the law, no matter whether the field-notes
were accepted or not as a basis of adjudication, and no matter
what character or class of evidence was submitted to and considered by him. But we do insist that when in respect to a
particular tract the Secretary has never so acted, or where he

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

has refused or neglected to so act, or where, from circumstances other than those affecting the character of the land,
he is deprived of the power to act, then the State, whether
she has accepted the field-notes or otherwise, is entitled, in
judicial proceedings, wherever material, to show the character
of the land by parol evidence.
M1r T E. Chadbourne and JXr Ashley Pond for defendant
in error.
MR. JTUSTIOE JAOKsoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The plaintiff has assigned for errors (1) that the trial court
improperly excluded the oral evidence offered to show that the
demanded premises were in fact swamp lands when the act of
September 28, 1850, was passed, and (2) that the court should
have directed a verdict for the plaintiff instead of for the
defendant.
In support of the first proposition, the plaintiff in error
relies upon the case- of Railroad Company v Smith, 9 Wall.
95, in which oral evidence was admitted to establish the fact
that the parcel of land there in dispute was swamp and overflowed land at the date of the swamp land act. But in that
case there was no selection or identification of the land under
either the swamp land act, or under the subsequent grant for
railroad purposes. The selection and identification under each
of said acts was left open and undetermined when the respective titles, involved therein, were acquired. It also further appeared in that case that the State neither made any selection
of the lands granted for railroad purposes, nor conveyed to
the railroad company any particular lands, but simply assigned
or transferred generally the lands granted to the State by
Congress, which were at the time only a "float," requiring
identification and selection to make the grant operative to
pass title to any portion of the public domain.
The facts of the present case present the direct converse of
the situation which existed in the case of Railroad Comnpany

CHANDLER v. CALUMET & HECLA MIIING 00.

89

Opinion of the Court.

v Smith. But aside from this, the rule as to oral evidence,
recogmzed in that case, was afterwards explained, and limited
in its operation to cases in which there had been non-action or
refusal to act on the part of the Secretary of the Interior in
selecting lands granted, as appears in the subsequent cases of
French v Fyan, 93 U. S. 169, 113, and hrhardt v Hogaboom,
115 U. S. 6[, 69, where parol evidence was offered to show
that patented lands were not of the character described.
In FTrench v Fyan, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Miller, said in reference to such evidence "The case of Railroad Company v Smith, 9 Wall. 95, is relied on as justifying
the offer of parol testimony in the one before us. In that case,
it was held that parol evidence was competent to prove that a
particular piece of land was swamp land, within the meaning
of the act of Congress. But a careful examination will show
that it was done with hesitation, and with some dissent in the
court. The admission was placed expressly on the ground
that the Secretary of the Interior had neglected or refused to
do his duty, that he had made no selection or lists whatever,
and would issue no patents, although many years had elapsed
since the passage of the act. The court said 'The matter to
be shown is one of observation and examination, and whether
arising before the Secretary, whose duty it was primarily to
decide it, or before the court -whose duty 't became, because the
Secretary hadfailedto do st, this was clearly the best evidence
to be had, and was sufficient for the purpose.' There was no
means, as this court has decided, to compel him to act, and if
the party claiming under the State in that case could not be
permitted to prove that the land which the State had conveyed to him as swamp land was in fact such, a total failure
of justice would occur, and the entire grant to the State might
be defeated by this neglect or refusal of the Secretary to perform his duty There is in this no conflict with what we
decide in the present case, but, on the contrary, the strongest
implication, that if, in that case, the Secretary had made any
decision, the evidence would have been excluded."
In the case of French v Fyan it was held that, while the
swamp land grant was a grant =rvrwsentz, by which the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to such lands passed at once to the State in which they lay,
it was made the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to identify them, make lists thereof, and cause a patent to be issued
therefor, and that the patent so issued could not be impeached
in an action at law by showing that the land which it conveyed was not in fact swamp and overflowed land, as the
plaintiff in that case sought to do.
In the subsequent case of Ehrhardt v Hogaboom, 115 U S.
67, 68, 69, the plaintiff deraigned title through a patent of the
United States for the demanded premises, bearing date June
10, 1875, which was given in evidence, while the defendant
claimed that twenty acres thereof were swamp and overflowed
lands which passed to the State of California under the act
of Congress of September 28, 1850, and offered parol evidence
to establish this fact, but the evidence was rejected. It did
not appear in that case that the demanded premises formed a
part of any land selected by the State or claimed by her as
swamp and overflowed land. In that case this court held,
speaking through Mr. Justice Field, that "a patent of the
United States, regular on its face, cannot, in an action at law,
be held inoperative as to any lands covered by it, upon parol
testimony that they were swamp and overflowed, and, therefore, unfit for cultivation, and hence passed to the State under
the grant of such land on her admission into the Union",
and after citing and approving the decision made in French v
Fyan, above cited, proceeded as follows "In that case parol
evidence to show that the land covered by a patent to
Missouri under the act was not swamp and overflowed land,
was held to be inadmissible. On the same principle, parol
testimony to show that the land covered by a patent of the
United States to a settler under the preemption laws was such
swamp and overflowed land must be held to be inadmissible
to defeat the patent. It is the duty of the Land Department,
of which the Secretary is the head, to determine whether
land patented to a settler is of the class subject to settlement
under the preemption laws, and his judgment as to this fact is
not open to contestation in an action at law by a mere intruder
without title. As was said in the case cited of the patent to

CHANDLER v. CALUMET & HECLA MINING CO. 91
Opinion of the Court.

the State, it may be said in this case of the patent to the preemptioner, it would be a departure from sound principle and
contrary to well-considered judgments of this court to permit,
in such action, the validity of the patent to be subjected to
the test of the verdict of a jury on oral testimony"
Nothing that was said or involved in W'Yight v Boseberry,
121 U S. 488, where the subject of these grants was exhaustively considered by the court, is in conflict with the rulings
announced in these cases. In TVgjht v Roseberry, patents
for lands had been issued to the defendants, or their grantors,
by the United States, under the pre~mption laws, upon claims
initiated subsequently to the swamp land grant to the State,
and it was held that such patents were not conclusive at law
as against the parties claiming under the latter grant, and
that in an action for their possession evidence was admissible
to determine whether or not the lands were in fact swamp and
overflowed at the date of the swamp land grant, and that if
proved to have been such the rights of subsequent claimants,
under other laws, would be subordinate thereto. In that case
the lower court held that the title to the demanded premises
never vested in the State for want of a certificate by the Department of the Interior that they were swamp and overflowed
lands, and that the State could not make title to the plaintiff
upon which he could maintain an action of ejectment against
persons in possession under a patent of the United States.
This principle was denied by this court in an elaborate opinion
announced by Mir. Justice Field, fully reviewing all the decisions on the subject, who said, p. 509, that "the result of
these decisions is, that the grant of 1850 is one snprosent ,
passing title to the lands as of its date, but requiring identification of the lands to render the title perfect, that the action
of the Secretary in identifying them is conclusive against collateral attack, as the judgment of a special tribunal to which
the determination of the matter is intrusted, but when that
officer has neglected or failed to make the identification it is
competent for the grantees of the State, to prevent their rights
from being defeated, to identify the lands in any other appropriate mode which will effect that object. A resort to such

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

mode of identification would also seem to be permissible,
where the Secretary declares his inability to certify the lands
to the State for any cause other than a consideration of their
character."
Under the principle announced in that case, and under the
foregoing facts in the present case, it would seem that there
had been such affirmative action on the part of the Secretary
of the Interior in identifying the lands in this particular township, containing the lands in controversy, as would amount to
an identification of the lands therein, which pass to the State
by the swamp land grant, and that the selection by the State
of the demanded premises under the canal grant of 1852, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, and the certification of the department to the State that they were covered
by the latter grant, may well be considered such an adjudication of the question as should exclude the introduction of
parol evidence to contradict it. The exclusion of the land in
dispute from the swamp lands, selected and patented to the
State, and its inclusion in the selection of the State as land
coming within the grant of 1852, with the approval of such
selection by the Interior Department and the certification
thereof to the State, operated to pass the title thereto as completely as could have been done by formal patent, .Fraseor v
O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102, and being followed by the State's
conveyance to the canal company, presented such official action and such documentary evidence of title as should not
be open to question by parol testimony in an action at law
Under the facts of this case we are of opinion that the plaintiff iu error could not properly establish by oral evidence that
the land in dispute was in fact swamp land, for the purpose of
contradicting and invalidating the department's certification
thereof to the State and the latter's patent to the canal
company
But assuming that this parol testimony offered by the plaintiff in error was competent, and that it would have established that the land in controversy was swamp land that
passed to the State by the act of 1850, what then would be
the rights of the parties to this suit, under their respective

CHANDLER v. CALUMET & HECLA MINING CO.

93

Opinion of the Court.

patents from the State? Can it be maintained that, because
the State acquired title thereto under the act of 1850, its patent therefor to the canal company made in 1855 would be
over-reached and superseded by its subsequent patent to the
plaintiff in 18872 We are at a loss to understand upon what
principle this can be asserted, for, even conceding that the
State, in patenting the demanded premises to the canal company, acted under mistake or misapprehension as to the character of the land so conveyed, still so long as that patent
remains uncancelled and unrevoked by the State, it must be
held that its legal effect was and is to pass whatever title the
State had to the tract in question, however that title may
have been originally acquired by the State.
In the cases relied upon by the plaintiff in error there had
been no particular lands conveyed by the State under grants
subsequent to the act of 1850, and there was no presumption
of law or fact that its patent was intended to convey lands
which accrued to it under the swamp land grant. But in the
case under consideration, even assuming that the State's title
was acquired under the latter grant, it had a title for any and
all purposes to which it might choose to apply or devote the
property, and when it applied it to the purpose of constructing the canal, and actually conveyed it to the canal company,
it was not in a position thereafter, so long as that conveyance
remained in force, to transfer the same land to another purchaser.
It is well settled that the State could have impeached the
title thus conveyed to the canal company only by a bill in
chancery to cancel or annul it, either for fraud on the part of
the grantee, or mistake or misconstruction of the law on the'
part of its officers in issuing the patent, and until so cancelled
or annulled it could not issue to another party any valid patent for the same land. United States v Hughes, 11 How
552, Rughes v Unted States, 4 Wall. 232, MJoore v Biobbins, 96 U. S. 530. This is also the view taken of the question in .ifichtgan v Flint and Pere Marquette Railroad,89
Alichigan, 481, 494. In that case the prior patent of the
State was held to estop it from subsequently asserting title t&

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the parcel of land conveyed, while its patent for the same land
was outstanding. But whether there is any technical estoppel
in the ordinary sense or not, it cannot be maintained that the
State can issue two patents, at different dates, to different parties for the same land, so as to convey by the second patent a
title superior to that acquired under the first patent. Neither
can the second patentee, under such circumstances, in an action
at law be heard to impeach the prior patent for any fraud
committed by the grantee against the State, or any mistake
committed by its officers acting within the scope of their
authority, and having jurisdiction to act and to execute the
conveyance sought to be impeached.
The patent to the canal company is not shown to be void,
because the State acquired title to the parcel in question, if it
did so acquire it, under the swamp land grant, rather than
under the act of 1852. Neither the State nor its subsequent
patentee is in a position to cancel or annul the title which it
had authority to make, and which it had previously conveyed
to the canal company The patent to the canal company did
not on its face, or by its terms, purport to convey only such
lands and such title as the State was entitled to under the
grant of 1852. On the contrary, it conveyed by accurate description the particular tract or parcel of land in controversy
It is, therefore, wholly immaterial under which of the two
Congressional grants the State acquired its title to said lands.
The canal grant of 1852 did not by its terms make the State
a trustee, in any proper sense of the word, in reference to the
lands granted by that act, but if it did, the State, as a trustee,
made the selection of the lands covered by that grant, and in
that selection included the particular parcel in question, and
thereafter conveyed it to the canal company, and having full
authority to so appropriate it, even if the title had previously
accrued to it under the swamp land act of 1850, its conveyance of the same to the canal company for a full and adequate consideration cannot, upon any well-settled principle, be
held void either as to the State or any subsequent grantee
from the State. So that, independently of any question arising upon the action of the court in excluding the parol evi-

