ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. 465
Statement of the Case.

U. S. 450, or where, upon an exannation of the record, the
requisite amount is found not to have been involved, as in
Walter v. Northeastern Railroad,147 U. S. 370.
I have never known of a Federal court admitting its inability to do justice between the parties and remanding the
case upon that ground. In Thompson v. RailroadCompantes,
6 Wall. 134, it appeared only that a civil action, removed
from a state court, which was essentially a common law
action, could not be proceeded with m a Federal court as an
equity case-a proposition I certainly should not deny
Indeed, in that case it was said that "as the action was a
purely legal one, if they [the plaintiffs] could have maintained
it in their names in the state courts, they had an equal right
to maintain it in their names when it arrived in the Federal
court." The only error was in not proceeding with it as a
common law action in the Federal court.
I am authorized to state that MR.JusTcE JACKSON concurs
in this dissent.

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH
COMPANY
PETITION FOR A REHEARING OF A CASE DECIDED 'MARCH 6, 1893,
AND REPORTED 148 U. s. 92.
No. 94. Submitted April 27,1893.-Decided May 15,1893.

The city of St. Louis is authorized by the Constitution and laws of Missouri, to impose upon a telegraph company putting its poles in the
streets of the city, a charge in the nature of rental for the exclusive use
of the parts so used.

THE defendants in error in this cause, decided on the 6th of
March last and reported 148 U. S.92, having asked leave to
file a petition for a rehearing, the court, in granting leave,
also gave the parties leave to file briefs on the question
"Whether the city of St. Louis has such interest in and
VOL. cxLIx-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel opposing the petition.

control over the streets, alleys and public places within its
limits as authorizes it to impose upon the telegraph company
a charge in the nature of rental for the exclusive use of portions thereof in the manner stated."
Ar John F Dillon, Hr Rush Taggart and -Mr Elenenwus
Smith for petitioner filed a brief citing Scheme and Charter
of the city of St. Louis, adopted August, 1876, 2 Rev. Stats.
Missouri, 1879, p. 1572, Constitution of Missouri, Art. IX, ยง
23, Art. XII, ยง 20, St. Louts v Bell Telephone Co., 96 Missouri, 623, Julia Building Assoctatwo v Bell Telephone Co.,
13 Mo. App. 477, S. C. affirmed 88 Missouri, 258, Glasgow v
St. Lousl, 87 Missouri, 678, Belcher Sugar Reftning Co. v
St. Lous Gratn Elevator Co., 101 Missouri, 192, Lackland v
Northern 3Iissourz Railroad,31 Missouri, 180, 185, Glaessner
v .Anheuser Busch Brewng Association, 100 Missouri, 508,
514, Cummings v St. Louts, 90 Missouri, 259, .Matthews v.
Alexandra, 68 Missouri, 115, Ferrenbach v Turner, 86 Missouri, 416, Atlantto & Paeo2c Railroad v St. Louts, 66
Missouri, 228.
They contended that these cases showed conclusively (1)
That under the provisions of the "Scheme and Charter" of
1876, as well as the charters of the city that existed prior to
that date, the superior and paramount control of the streets
of the city of St. Louis is in the public represented by the
Legislature of the State (2) That the city has absolutely no
power to rent, lease or in any manner convey any portion of
the streets of the city for any use inconsistent with the public
street uses proper" (3) That the city has no power to lease or
inany manner dispose of any portion of the streets for private
purposes, and only so far as public enterprises are concerned
to the extent specially delegated (4) That so far as a municipal corporation of the State of Missouri is concerned, it has
not the power to rent portions of the street in the manner in
which it has power to rent its unoccupied buildings, park
privileges, etc.
.r

W C. Marshall filed a brief opposing.

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. 467
Opnion of the Court.

BREWER, X In the opinion heretofore announced it was
said "-We do not understand it to be questioned by counsel
for the defendant that, under the constitution and laws of
Missouri, the city of St. Louis has the full control of its streets
in this respect and represents the public in relation thereto."
A petition for a rehearing has been fied, in which it is claimed
that the court misunderstood the position of counsel, and,
further, that in fact the city of St. Louis has no such control. Leave having been given therefor briefs on the question
whether such control exists have been filed by both sides, that
of the Telegraph Company being quite full and elaborate.
We see no reason to change the views expressed as to the
power of the city of St. Louis in this matter. Control over
the streets resides somewhere. As the legislative power of a
5tate is vested in the legislature, generally that body has the
supreme control, and it delegates to municipal corporations
such measure thereof as it deems best. The city of St. Louis
occupies a unique position. It does not, like most cities, derive
its powers by grant from the legislature, but it framed its own
charter under express authority from the people of the State,
given in the constitution. Sections 20 and 21 of Article 9 of the
Constitution of 1875 of the State of Missouri authorized the election of thirteen freeholders to prepare a charter to be submitted
to the qualified voters of the city, which, when ratified by them,
was to "become the organic law of the city" Section 22 provided for amendments, to be made at intervals of not less than
two years and upon the approval of three-fifths of the voters.
Sections 23 and 25 required the charter and amendments to
always be in harmouy with and subject to the constitution
and laws of Missouri, and gave to the general assembly the
same power over this city, notwithstanding the provisions of
this article, as was had over other cities. In pursuance of
these provisions of the constitution a charter was prepared
and adopted, and is, therefore, the "organic law" of the city
of St. Louis, and the powers granted by it, so far as they are
in harmony with the constitution and laws of the State, and
have not been set aside by any act of the general assembly,
are the powers vested in the city And this charter is an or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ganic act, so defined in the constitution, and is to be construed
as organic acts are construed. The city is in a very just sense
an "mpertum

=r smperw."

Its powers are self-appointed,

and the reserved control existing in the general assembly does
not take away this peculiar feature of its charter.
An examination of this charter (2 Rev. Stat. Mo. 1879, pp.
1572, and following) will disclose that very large and general
powers are given to the city, but it would unnecessarily prolong this opinion to quote the many sections defining these
powers. It must suffice to notice those directly in point.
Paragraph 2 of section 26 of article 3 gives the mayor and
assembly power, by ordinance "to establish, open, vacate, alter,
widen, extend, pave, or otherwise improve and sprinkle all
streets, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, wharves, and public grounds
and squares, and provide for the payment of the costs and expenses thereof in the manner in this charter prescribed, and
also to provide for the grading, lighting, cleaning and repairing the same, and to condemn private property for public uses,
as provided for in this charter, to construct and keep in repair
all bridges, streets, sewers and drains, and to regulate the use
thereof," &c. The 5th paragraph of the same article grants
power "to license, tax, and regulate
telegraph companies or corporations, street railroad cars," &c. Article 6
treats of public improvements, including the opening of streets.
Section 2 provides for condemmng private property, and "for
establishing, opening, widening or altering any street, avenue,alley, wharf, market place or public square, or route for a
sewer or water pipe." By section 4, commissioners are to be
appointed to assess the damages. By seqtion 5, it is made the
duty of these commissioners to ascertain the actual value of the
land and premises proposed to be taken, and the actual damages done to the property thereby, "and for the payment of
such values and damages to assess against the city the amount
of benefit to the public generally, and the balance against the
owner or owners of all property which shall be especially
benefited by the proposed improvement in the opinion of the
commissioners, to the amount that each lot of such owner
shall be benefited by the improvement." Except, therefore,

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPTH C0.

469

Opimon of the Court.

for the special benefit done to the adjacent property, the city
pays out of its treasury for the opening of streets, and this
power of the city to open and establish streets, and the duty
of paying the damages therefor out of the city treasury, were
not created for the first time by this charter, but have been
the rule as far back as 1839.
Further than that, with the charter was, as authorized by
the constitution, a scheme for an enlargement of the boundaries of the city of St. Louis, and an adjustment of the relations consequent thereon between the city and the county
The boundaries were enlarged, and by section 10 of the
scheme it was provided that "SEc. 10. All the public buildings, institutions, public parks,
and property of every character and description heretofore
owned and controlled by the county of St. Louis within the
limits as extended, including the court-house, the county jail,
the insane asylum, and the poor-house, are hereby transferred
and made over to the city of St. Louis, and all the right,
title and interest of the county of St. Louis in said property,
and m all public roads and highways within the enlarged
limits, is hereby vested in the city of St. Louis, and divested
out of the county, and m consideration of the city becoming
the proprietor of all the county buildings and property withm
its enlarged limits, the city hereby assumes the whole of the
existing county debt and the entire park tax." (2 Rev Stat.
XMo. 18M9, p. 1565.)
Obviously, the intent and scope of this charter are to vest in
the city a very enlarged control over public property and property devoted to public uses within the territorial limits.
It is given power to open and establish streets, to improve
them as it sees fit, and to regulate their use, paying for all
this out of its own funds. The word "regulate" is one of
broad import. It is the word used in the Federal Constitution to define the power of Congress over foreign and interstate commerce, and he who reads the many opinions of this
court will perceive how broad and comprehensive it has been
held to be. If the city gives a right to the use of the streets
or public grounds, as it did by ordinance :No. 11,604, it simply

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

regulates the use when it prescribes the terms and conditions
upon which they shall be used. If it should see fit to construct an expensive boulevard in the city, and then limit the
use to vehicles of a certain kind or exact a toll from all who
use it, would that be other than a regulation of the use 9 And
so it is only a matter of regulation of use when the city
grants to the telegraph company the right to use exclusively
a portion of the street, on condition of contributing something
towards the expense it has been to in opening and improving
the street. Unless, therefore, the telegraph company has
some superior right which excludes it from subjection to this
control on the part of the city over the streets, it would seem
that the power to require payment of some reasonable sum
for the exclusive use of a portion of the streets was within the
grant of power to regulate the use. That the company gets
no such right from the general government is shown by the
opinion heretofore delivered, nor has it any such from the
State. The law in force in Missouri from 1866, gives certain
rights m streets to "companies organized under the provisions
of this article." Of course, the defendant, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, can clann
no benefit of this. It is true that, prior to that time, and by
the act of November 1, 1855, (2 Rev Stat. Mo. 1855, p. 1520,)
the right was given to every telegraph corporation to construct its lines along the highways and public roads, but that
was superseded by the legislation of 1866, and when in force
it was only a permission, a license, which might be revoked at
any time, and, further, whatever rights, if any, this defendant may have acquired to continue the use of the streets
already occupied at the time of the revision of 1866, it cannot
with any show of reason be contended that it received an irrevocable power to traverse the State and occupy any other
streets and highways.
Neither have we found in the various decisions of the courts
of Missouri, to which our attention has been called, any denial
of the power of the city in this respect. It is true, in Glasgow
v St. -Louts,87 Missouri, 678, Cummsngs v St. Louts, 90 Missouri, 269, Glaessner v Brewing Association, 100 Missouri,

ST. LOUIS v. WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. 471
Opinion of the Court.

508, and Belchlu Sugar RPqftng Co. v St. Loue &c. Gram.
Elevator Co., 101 Missouri, 192, the power of the city to devote the streets or public grounds to purely private uses was,
denied, but in the cases of JuliaBuilding Assoczation v Bell
Telephone Co., 88 Missouri, 258, and St. 1oui v Bell Telephone
Co., 96 Missouri, 623, it was expressly held that the use of the
streets for telephone poles was not a private use, (and of
course telegraph poles stand on the same footing,) and that a
private corporation carrying on the public service of transportation of messages might be permitted to use the streets for
its poles. Counsel rely strongly upon the latter of these cases,
in which the power of the city to regulate the charges for
telephone service was denied. But obviously that decision
does not cover this case. The relation of a telephone or telegraph company to its patrons, after the use of the streets has
been granted, does not affect the use, and power to regulate
the use does not carry with it by implication power to regulate the dealings between the corporation having such use and
its individual patrons, but what the company shall pay to the
city for the use is diredtly involved in a regulation of the use.
The determination of the amount to be paid for the use is as
much a matter of regulation as determining the place which
may be used or the size or height of the poles. The very
argument made by the court to show that fixing telephone
charges is not a regulation of the use, is persuasive that fixing
a price for the use is such a regulation. Counsel also refer to
the case of Atlantic and Pac.f R ailroad v St. Iouis, 66
Missouri, 228, but there is nothing in that case which throws
any light upon this. In that it appeared that there was an
act of the legislature giving to the railroad company a specific right in respect to the construction of a track within the
city limits, and it was held that the company was entitled to
the benefit of that act, and to claim the right given by the
general assembly, although it had after the passage of the act
proceeded in the construction of the track under an ordinance of the city purporting to give it the privilege. But, as
we have seen, the act of November 17, 1855, vested in defendant no general and irrevocable power to occupy the streets in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

any city in the State through all time. We find nothing,
therefore, in the cases cited from the Missouri courts which
militates with the conclusions we have drawn as to the power
of the city m this respect.
One other matter deserves notice It will be seen by referring to our former opinion that one of the contentions of the
counsel for the telegraph company was that by ordinance
No. 11,604 the city had contracted with the company to permit the erection of these poles in consideration of the right of
the city to occupy and use the top cross-arm free of charge.
We quote this statement of counsel's claim from their brief
"Ordinance 11,604 granted defendant authority to set its poles
in the streets of the city without any limitation as to tne, for
valuable considerations stipulated, and having been accepted
and acted on by defendant, and all of its conditions complied
with, and the city having acquired valuable rights and pnvileges thereunder, said ordinance and its acceptance constitute
a contract, which the city cannot alter in its essential terms
without the consent of the defendant, nor can it impose new
and burdensome considerations." Alnd in respect to this,
further on they say "No question is or can be raised as to
the validity of the contract made by ordinance No. 11,604,
and its acceptance." But if the city bad power to contract
with defendant for the use of the streets, it was because it had
control over that use. If it can sell the use for a consideration, it can reqire payment of a consideration for the use,
and when counsel say that no question can be made as to the
validity of such a contract, do they not concede that the city
has such control over the use of the streets as enables it to
demand pay therefor2
The petition for a rehearing is
Denwed.

