OCTOBER TERK, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

NATIONAL METER COMPANY v. YONKERS
WATER COMMISSIONERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 192. Argued Harch 29, 1893. -Decided

April 17, 1893.

Claims 3, 4, o and 6 of reissued letters patent No. 10,806, granted February
8. 1887 to the National Meter Company, as assignee of Lewis Hallock
Nash, for improvements in water-meters, on the surrender of original
letters patent No. 211,582, granted to said Nash, January 21, 1879, are
not infringed by water-meters constructed according to letters patent
reissued to the Hersey Meter Company, No. 10,778, November 2, 1886, as
assignees of James A. Tilden, and to letters patent No. 357,159, granted
to James A. Tilden, February 1, 1887, and to letters patent granted to
said company as assignee of said Tilden, No. 385,970, July 10, 1888.
The Nash piston has a side-rocking movement across the centre of the
cylinder, upon successive bearing points made by the contact of a projection on the piston with the recess in the cylinder, or conversely and
the piston rotates upon its own axis, so that each projection comes
successively into each recess of the cylinder. But in the defendant's
structure, there is no side-rocking, nor any rotary motion, and each projection in the piston always operates in connection with one particular
corresponding recess in the cylinder, and never leaves that recess.
IN EquITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr J Edgar Bull and Jfqr Edmund Wetmore for appellant.
-Hr Frederick P Fish and Yr Frederck H. Betts, (with
whom was Mr George L. Roberts on the brief,) for appellee.
MR. JUSTIoE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by the
National Meter Company, a New York corporation, against
the Board of Water Commissioners of the city of Yonkers,
another New York corporation, founded on reissued letters

NATIONAL METER CO. v. YONKERS.
Opinion of the ICourt.

patent of the United States No. 10,806, granted February 8,
1887, to the plaintiff as assignee of Lewis Hallock Nash, for
improvements in water-meters. The application for the reissue
was filed December 18, 1886, on the surrender of original
letters patent No. 211,582, granted to said Nash, January 21,
1879, for improvements in water-meters, the application therefor having been filed September 4, 1878. The claims of the
reissue alleged to have been infringed are claims 3, 4, 5 and 6,

which are as follows:
"3. A piston for water-meters, pumps, and motors provided
with internal water passages, and having alternate bearing
points or projections and recesses adapted, by means of a
cylinder-chamber having alternate bearing points or projections and recesses, to have an eccentric or side-rocking movement within and upon continually-changing lines across the
centre of said chamber to effect its division at two or more
points on its sides into receiving and discharging spaces cc,
which communicate with the inlet and outlet.
"4. A piston for water-meters, pumps, and motors having
alternate bearing points or projections and recesses adapted,
by means of a cylinder-chamber having alternate bearing
points or projections and recesses, to have an eccentric or siderocking movement within and upon continually-changing lines
across the centre of said chamber to effect its division at two
or more points on its sides into receiving and discharging
spaces cc, which communicate with the. inlet aud outlet, said
piston having a free movement within. said cylinder, controlled
only by the shape of the cylinder, the shape of the piston and
the flow of water through the meter.
"5. A piston for water-meters, pumps, and motors having
alternate bearing points or projections and recesses adapted,
by means of a cylinder-chamber having alternate bearing
points or projections and recesses, to have an eccentric or siderocking motion within and upon continually-changing lines
across the centre of said chamber to effect its division at two
or more points on its sides into receiving and discharging
spaces cc, which communicate with the inlet and outlet, said
piston being formed of hard rubber and having a free moveVOL. CxLIX-4

OCTOBER TERIf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ment within said cylinder controlled by the shape of the
piston, the shape of the cylinder, and the flow of the water
through the meter.
"6. A piston for water-meters, pumps, and motors having
alternate bearing points or projections and recesses adapted,
by means of a cylinder-chamber having alternate bearing
points or projections and recesses, to have an eccentric or siderocking movement within and upon continually changing lines
across the centre of said chamber to effect its division at two
or more points on its sides into receiving and discharging
spaces cc, which communicate with the inlet and outlet, combined with ports controlled by said piston itself in its motion
within said chamber."
The defences set up in the answer are (1) that the reissue is
invalid as to the said four claims, because it was applied for
and secured eight years after the grant of the original patent,
not for the purpose contemplated by the statute, of correcting
any error that arose from inadvertence, accident or mistake,
but for the purpose of changing the patent so that it would
claim combinations of devices which were not the subject of
the claims of the original patent, nor described therein as
being the inventions of Nash for which he obtained said
original patent, in order that, by means of the reissue, the
plaintiff might prevent the Hersey Meter Company, which
manufactured the meters used by the defendant, and had
assumed the defence of the suit, from carrying on its business,
and, further, on the ground that Nash and the plaintiff
unreasonably and fraudulently delayed undertaking to correct
the alleged defects by a reissue, and did not make application
for the reissue until the Hersey company had made and sold
large numbers of meters of the type in question, and that the
reissue was applied for and obtained for the sole purpose of
procuring a new patent for other and different inventions
from those forming the subject-matter of the claims of the
original patent, and, further, that the reissue was procured
by deceiving the Patent Office, and by fraudulent and untrue
representations to that office, and that any right to the reissue
was forfeited by the plaintiff's delay and laches, in not apply-

NATIONAL METER CO. v. YONKERS.
Opinion of the Court.

ing for it until long after the plaintiff bad full knowledge of

all the facts upon which such application purported to be
based, and long after the Hersey company had made, sold and
introduced into use meters identical with those used by the
defendant, (2) that lNash did not particularly point out and
distinctly claim the part, improvement or combination which
he claimed as his invention or discovery, but, on the contrary,
wilfully and fraudulently made his claims, in the original
patent and the reissue in ambiguous language, intended
to mislead the public, with the view of making it difficult to
determine the real scope of his claims, and of reserving
the right to contend for such interpretation thereof as the
exigencies of any particular case might, in his judgment
or that of his assignee, require, (3) non-infringement, and
that the meter used by the defendant is substantially different,
in construction and mode of operation, from the meter of the
reissue; and that no invention is shown or described in the
reissue upon which is, or could have been based any claim
which would be infringed by the defendant's meter.
Proofs were taken, and the case was heard before Judge
Wallace, who delivered an opinion, (38 Fed. Rep. 588,) holding that the defendant's meter did not infringe any of the,
claims in question, and entered a decree dismissing the bill,
with costs. From that decree the plaintiff appealed to this
court.
We do not find it necessary to consider the question of the
validity of the reissue, because we are of opinion that the
decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed on the ground
that the defendant has not infringed.
The original patent had eight claims, as follows
"1. A piston for water-meters, pumps, and motors having
alternate bearing points or projections and recesses adapted,
by means of a cylinder-chamber having alternate bearing
points or projections and recesses, to have an eccentric or siderocking movement within and upon continually-changing lines
across the centre of said chamber to effect its division at two
or more points on its sides into receiving and discharging
spaces cc, which communicate with the inlet and outlet.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"2. The piston of a water-meter, pump, or motor constructed with alternate recesses and bearing points or projections a and b, and a cylinder-chamber having alternate
wall-recesses and bearing points or projections a' and ',
adapted to intermatch with each other at one or more bearing
points at one side of the cylinder and allow the projections of
each part to bear upon and to pass each other at two or more
points at a different side of the chamber, to allow the piston
to revolve while it also rocks in constantly-changing lines
across the centre of the cylinder-chamber, for the purpose
stated.
"3. The piston of a water-meter adapted to have an eccentric or side-rocking movement across the centre of the cylinder
chamber and a revolving motion, combined with a registering
mechanism by means of a free or shifting connection acting
with the continually-changing side-rocking movements of the
piston while maintaining a driving relation with the dial
mechanism.
"4. The combination, with a piston having an eccentric or
side-rocking motion across the centre of the cylinder-chamber
and a revolving motion around its own centre to divide the
-cylinder at two or more bearing points on its sides, of a valve
controlled by the movements of said piston and adapted to
open and to close receiving and discharging ports in succession, to effect the purpose stated.
"5. A rotary piston having a valve formed therein by
opposite end ports or depressions, and adapted to act, m
connection with receiving and discharging ports or passages
in the cylinder-chamber, to form a valve and piston. into and
through which the water entering at the inlet-cylinder end
ports passes through one end of the valve into the cylinder on
one side thereof, and, re6ntering the valve from the other
side of said cylinder, passes out at the opposite end ports of
said valve, to effect the purpose stated.
"6. A rotary valve-piston having opposite end ports dd'
communicating with the piston sides by diagonal passages ee',
in combination with a cylinder having receiving and discharging ports, communicating with said opposite valve end ports

NATIONAL METER CO. v. YONKERS.
Opinion of the Court.

and with the receiving and discharging spaces of said cylinder,
whereby said valve opens some and closes others of its ports
in succession, and to effect the equalization of the pressure of
the water at right angles to the direction of the side-rocking
and rotary movements of the said valve-piston, as stated.
"7. The inlet device L, having side walls, a perforated end,
and an open-end bearing rnm, seated adjustably in and forming
the inlet-port J of the cylinder-chamber, in combination with
the rotary piston, against one end of which the said device
bears, for the purpose stated.
"8. The spaces or recesses c in the walls of the cylinder,
between the bearing points ' and the recesses a', in combination with the piston having alternate bearing points and
recesses, whereby to prevent the choking of the flow and
insure a uniform action of a piston adapted for operation with
a side-rocking motion across the centre of the cylinder and a
rotary motion around its own centre."
The meters alleged to infringe were constructed under
patents granted to Hersey Brothers, as assignees of James A.
Tilden. The first one was No. 324,503, dated August 18, 1885,
on an application filed December 22, 1884, for a rotary fluidmeter. It was reissued to the Hersey Meter Company,
November 2, 1886, as reissue No. 10,778, on an application for
reissue filed September 30, 1886. Another patent was granted
to James A. Tilden, February 1, 1887, No. 357,159, on an
application filed August 15, 1885, for a water-meter with a
revolving, non-rotating piston. A third patent was granted
to the Hersey Meter Company, as assignee of James A. Tilden,
No. 385,970, for a rotary fluid-meter, July 10, 1888, on an
application filed January 25, 1887. The manufacture of the
alleged infringing meters was begun, a large number of them
were put upon the market, and they were extensively advertised, prior to the filing of the application for reissue No.
10,806.
Nash took one form of the Galloway rotary engine, that
described in Reuleaux's "Kinematics of Machinery," translated
by Kennedy and published in London, England, in 1876, and
made improvements upon it which were necessary and valu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

able to adapt it for practical use as a water-meter. The
Galloway engine was a steam engine. At that time, it was
well known that steam and water engines, whether rotary or
reciprocating, could be used as meters to measure the flow of
fluids passed through them, and various forms of both kinds
had been used as meters. The original patent of iNash states
that it is contemplated to use the apparatus as a motor or as a
pump, and so does the reissue.
Galloway had patented another form of engine in England,
by English patent iNo. 11,485, sealed December 14, 1846, and
specification enrolled June 14, 1847. Tilden, the inventor of
the defendant's water-meter, took the form of this latter Galloway engine, and made such improvements upon it as were
necessary to adapt it to practical use as a water-meter. Both
Nash and Tilden supplied the arrangements of ports and discharging spaces necessary for the special form of piston and
cylinder-chamber in the respective Galloway engines, adding
also a registering device, to operate by attachment to the piston.
In the Galloway engine described in the "Kinematics," there
is a piston having projections and a cylinder having recesses,
but the recesses are more in number than the projections on
the piston. In the engine of Galloway's patent of 1846, the
piston has the same number of projections that the cylinder
has of recesses. In the engine in the "Kinematics," and in
the plaintiff's apparatus, the piston has a side rocking movement across the centre of the cylinder, upon successive bearing
points made by the contact of a projection on the piston with
the recess in the cylinder, or conversely; and the piston rotates
upon its own axis, so that each projection comes successively
into each recess of the cylinder. But in the piston of Galloway's patent, and in the defendant's structure, there is no
side rocking, nor any rotary motion, and each projection on
the piston always operates in connection with one particular
corresponding recess in the cylinder, and never leaves that
recess.
The descriptions of the apparatus in the original and reissued
patents of Nash are the same, but in reissue No. 10,806 there
is a disclaimer in these words, which was not in the original

NATIONAL METER CO. v. YONKERS.
Opimon of the Court.

specification "1 do not claim, broadly, a piston for watermeters, pumps, and motors having alternate bearing points or
projections and recesses adapted, by means of a cylinderchamber having alternate bearing points or projections and
recesses, to have an eccentric or side-rocking movement within
and upon continually-changing lines across the centre of said
chamber to effect its division at two or more points on its
sides into receiving and discharging spaces cc, which communicate with the inlet and outlet, as a motor having a piston
of substantially such construction and movement within a
cylinder-chamber having such construction is shown and described in the English patent of Elijah Galloway, December
14, 1846, No. 11,485, but what I do claim are said elements
in combination with additional elements, as hereinafter specified, thereby limiting my claims to the novel features embraced
in my meter."

In all of the eight claims of the original patent, except
claim 1, a piston revolving about its centre was an element in
the combination claimed, and it is a feature in each one of
claims 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the reissue. The theory upon which
the disclaimer was inserted appears to have been that claim 1
of the original patent did not specify a piston revolving about
its centre, and therefore was sufficiently broad to include the
arrangement in the Galloway patented engine of 1846. But
it does not seem doubtful that such a piston was a necessary
element of claim 1 of the original patent, and that it forms an
element of every new claim of the reissue. The only piston
described in the specification of the original patent, and, therefore, the only one whch could have been referred to in claim 1
of the original patent, is one having the side rocking and
rotating movement which constitutes the compound motion
described in the original specification, which motion is due to
the fact that the piston has one or several less projections than
the cylinder has recesses. The defendant's meter does not
have such a piston, and, therefore, does not infringe any of
the claims of the reissue.
The forms of the two Galloway engines are essentially different, and necessitate a different construction and arrange-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the coiperating devices, to adapt them to efficient
service as water-meters. As said by the Circuit Court in its

opinion "The inventions of Nash and Tilden commence
upon different lines and result in a combination having a different mode of operation. The time and order of controlling
the valves differ in each, and require a different arrangement
of the valve ports, with reference to the valves which open
and close them. In Nash's meter the ports for both entrance
and discharge of water are in the ends or sides of the piston,
while in Tilden's the ports are not in the piston, but in the
ends or heads of the cylinder case, and are so located that the
contact of the piston with the cylinder divides each recess into
one filling and one discharging passage. In the former the
ends of the cylinder act as the valves, in the latter the piston
itself acts as the valves. In Nash's meter the rotary and side
rocking or compound movement of the piston opens some and
closes others of the ports in succession, in such a manner as
to equalize the pressure of the water at right angles to the
direction of the movements of the piston. In Tilden's meter
it is an essential feature that there shall be not merely water
pressure which moves the piston about the cylinder-chamber,
but additional side pressure, which, in Nash's meter, must be
avoided, and it is only because it has a pressure of water not
found in Nash's meter that it is operative at all."
In the Nash reissue, it is required that the piston patented
should have an "eccentric or side-rocking motion across the
centre of a cylinder-chamber to effect its division at two or
more points into receiving and discharging spaces." But the
defendant's piston has no such motion, and the cylinder-chamber of its meter is not divided by the piston "at two or more
points, into receiving and discharging spaces," in the sense of
the Nash reissue.
In the Nash reissue, it is required that "with this eccentric
or side-rocking action the piston also revolves round its own
centre,
for as the piston rocks from one bearing
point to another directly across the centre of the cylinder it
is at the same time revolved." But the defendant's piston
has no motion of revolution about its own centre.

NATIONAL METER CO. v. YONKERS.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Nash reissue, it is required that "in the rotation of
the piston around its own centre one or more projecting bearing points of the piston will pass into corresponding recesses
at one point of the cylinder, and in contact with and over one
or more projecting bearing points of the cylinder at a different
point, thereby always maintaining a direct contact of the piston
and cylinder at two or more dividing points within the continually changing cylinder spaces." But in the defendant's
meter, the bearing points of the piston are always in their
own special recesses in the case, and are never in contact with,
and never pass over, any of the projecting bearing points of
the cylinder; and there never is a direct contact of the piston
and cylinder at two or more dividing points, within the meaning of the Nash reissue.
In the Nash reissue, it is required that the valves should
be "arranged so that the cylinder spaces on one side of the
piston as it revolves have free inlet for the water through one
set of the valve ports, while the spaces on the other side of
the piston have free outlets for the water through the other
ports of the valve." But in the defendant's meter, the division between the inlet and outlet ports is not made by the
piston, and all the displacement of the water is effected in the
individual chambers of the cylinder, and no two chambers are
ever connected while measuring water.
In the Nash reissue, it is required that the valves should so
open and close the ports in succession '' as to keep the line of
pressure of the water as nearly as possible at right angles to
the direction of the eccentric or side-rocking and rotary movements of the piston, and thereby avoid any undue lateral pressure of the water upon the piston." But in the defendant's
meter, the motion of the piston is of an entirely different character. The "lateral pressure of the water upon the piston,"
which the Nash structure is designed to avoid, is an essential
feature of the operation, and without it, the piston of the
defendant's meter would not be kept up against the side of
the case, and no water could be measured.
In the Nash reissue, it is required that when a separate

valve controlled by the piston is not employed, the valve is

OCTOBER TERMNE, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"formed by inlet and outlet openings or ports in the ends of
the piston communicating by means of passages in or through
the piston with the spaces of the cylinder." But in the
defendant's meter, no separate valve is employed, and there
are no ports in the ends of the piston, and no passages in or
through the piston, which communicate with the spaces of the
cylinder, the single passage in the centre of the defendant's
piston is a portion of the discharge-pipe, and it is required
only in order to accommodate the water discharged at the
bottom of the meter (a double discharge, namely, at the top
and bottom of the meter, being used for the purpose of balancing the piston).
In the Nash reissue, it is required that the piston and
cylinder should have "1bearing or contacting surfaces
formed by alternate recesses aa' and projections bb' of such
form or configuration as to allow of the rotation of the piston
not only upon its own axis but around and across the centre
of the cylinder, and the space within the cylinder must be of
such form and sufficiently larger than the piston H to allow
it to have this compound motion." But in the defendant's
meter, the projections and recesses are of such form as to prevent the rotation of the piston upon its own axis, and also to
prevent its motion around and across the centre of the cylinder, and the space within the cylinder is not of such form as,
and not sufficiently larger than the piston, to allow the latter
to have that compound motion.
In the Nash reissue, it is stated that "the object of this
compound motion is to form bearing points or lines of contact
of the piston with the cylinder-walls on opposite sides thereof,
at the same time, as shown in Figs. 3 and 12, whereby to
divide the cylinder into receiving and discharging spaces."
But in the defendant's meter, no bearing points, or lines of
contact of the piston with the cylinder-walls, on opposite sides
thereof at the same time, are formed, and the receiving and
discharging spaces are differently situated, and are divided in
an entirely different way and on different lines.
In the Nash reissue, it is required that "of whatever form
these alternate recesses and projections, they must be such

IATIONAL METER CO. v. YONKERS.
Opinion of the Court.

that while they are in contact upon one side of the cylinder
they must also at the same time have a contact at the opposite
or a .different side of said cylinder, and in this way divide the
cylinder into spaces." But in the defendant's meter, the projections and recesses are of such form that such required mode
of dividing the cylinder into spaces by contacts on opposite or
different sides of the cylinder is impossible.
In the Nash reissue it is stated that "in this contact it will
be observed that upon one side of the cylinder and piston such
contact takes place between a recess and projection, or intermediately between these points, while upon the opposite side
such contact is made by corresponding projections, as shown
in Figs. 3 and 12." But in the defendant's meter, no such
contact ever takes place, and there is no contact upon opposite
sides of the cylinder, and in each particular chamber, receiving and discharging spaces are formed by that projection of
the piston which is in that chamber from the first and never
leaves it.
In the Nash reissue, it is stated that "the compound motion
of the piston and the contacting dividing points are due to the
fact that the piston has one or more less points of projection
than the cylinder." But in the defendant's meter there are
the same number of projections on the piston and on the cylinder, and consequently no compound motion of the piston is
possible.
In the Nash reissue, it is stated that the function of either
form of valve described "is to regulate the flow of water in
and out of the spaces of the cylinder in such manner as to produce the compound rotation and cross movement of the
piston." But in the defendant's meter, the water is admitted
and discharged in such a way as to prevent any motion of the
piston except a sliding movement, which is neither a compound
rotation nor a cross movement, within the meaning of the
Nash reissue.
In the Nash reissue, it is required that the valve and piston
should "co6perate to produce the results stated," viz., the compound motion of the piston and the proper control of the flow
But in
of the water in and out of the spaces of the cylinder.

