OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

rate argument and careful consideration, and the stipulation
in that regard was fully complied with. If it had been
intended to reserve the present contention, it is enough to say
that that intention was not expressed and cannot be inferred,
and the matter was determined by our judgment. The Circuit Court properly attempted to exercise no discretion in the
premises, but discharged its duty by carrying the mandate
into effect according to its terms. This court awarded execution against the company for the costs here, but it was for the
Circuit Court to award execution for the amount of the judgment, as it was directed to do, and as it did, and interest was
properly included at the rate which obtained under the law of
Texas at the time judgment was rendered, the change in the
law in that respect operating only prospectively
Inasmuch
as its action conformed to the mandate, and there were no
proceedings subsequent thereto not settled by the terms of the
mandate itself, the case falls within the rule often heretofore
laid down and a second writ of error cannot be maintained.
Cook v Burnley, 11 Wall. 672, 677, Stewart v Salamon, 97
U S. 361, Humphrey v Baker, 103 U S. 736.
For these reasons, the answer to the first question certified
must be that, upon the facts stated in the certificate, the Circuit Court of Appeals cannot review by writ of error this
judgment of the Circuit Court in execution of the mandate of
this court. This dispenses with the necessity of answering the
other questions certified.
Ordered accordingly.

HAGER v. SWAY1NE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 232.

Submitted April 21, 1893.-

Decided May 1, 1893.

The action which § 3011 Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of February 27,
1877, 19 Stat. 240, 247, c. 69, authorizes to be brought to recover back
an excess of duties paid, cannot be maintained by a stranger, suing solely
in virtue of a purchase of claims from those who did not see fit to
prosecute them themselves.

HAGER v. SWAYNE.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.frA Assistant Attorney General Parker for plaintiff in
error.
0
_Mr CharlesPage for defendant in error.
MR. CmEF

JusTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an action brought by R. H. Swayne in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of California to recover from the defendant, Joseph S. lager,
collector of the port of San Francisco, the sum of $3'199.56 on
account of duties illegally exacted by the collector on divers
importations of cotton shoes and silk shoes, brought into said
port in the year 1886 by several importers from ports in
China. The complaint contained forty-seven counts for
various amounts alleged to be due upon an equal number of
importations made by many different firms and persons, and
the plaintiff claimed to be entitled to recover the aggregate
sum by reason of having become the owner of these several
claims by way of purchase and assignment.
Issue having been joined, a trial by jury was waived by
stipulation, and it was agreed that all the importations of
cotton shoes referred to in the several counts might be considered under one head, and all the importations of silk shoes
under another. The Circuit Court thereupon made its findings of fact and therefrom its conclusion of law that the plaintiff was entitled to recover the entire sum sued for. Judgment was accordingly entered against the collector, who
brought the case by writ of error to this court.
The upper part of the shoes was composed of cotton or of
silk and a portion of the soles was of felt, made up of coarse
animal hair of different kinds and of wood fibre and starch or
glue, all of which had been felted, mixed, and pressed into
layers, which layers were in turn pressed together until the
requisite thickness was reached. The most valuable material

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

of the shoe was the silk or cotton respectively, and no part
contained hair of any kind in the textile fabric, nor were they
made up by the tailor, seamstress, or manufacturer of similar
character to a tailor or seamstress.
The collector decided that these shoes were dutiable under
the paragraph of Schedule K of the tariff act of March 3, 1883,
22 Stat. 509, c. 121, fixing duty on wearing apparel of every
description not specially numerated or provided for, composed
wholly or in part of wool, worsted, the hair of the alpaca,
goat, or other animals, made up or manufactured wholly or in
part by the tailor, seamstress, or manufacturer, at the rate of

forty cents per pound and in addition thereto thirty-five per
centum ad valorem, and exacted of the importers payment of
the duties accordingly The importers, as found by the court,
"for the purpose of getting possession of their said merchandise, paid the amount so required of them, but within the time
required by law notified the collector of their dissatisfaction
with and protest against his decision, and appealed to the
Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed the decision of the
collector. The importers thereupon, for value, assigned their
claims to the plaintiff, who, within the time required by law,
commenced this action for the recovery of the said excess of
duties." The Circuit Court held that the cotton shoes fell
under the paragraph of Schedule I, (22 Stat. 506,) imposing
thirty-five per cent ad valorem on manufactures of cotton not
specially enumerated or provided for, and the silk shoes under
the last paragraph of Schedule L, imposing fifty per cent on
goods not specially enumerated, made of silk or of which silk
was the component material of chief value. 37 Fed. Rep.
780.
It was held by this court in Arnson v MHurphy, 109 U S.
238, that the common-law right of action against a collector
to recover duties illegally collected was taken away by act of
Congress, and a statutory remedy given, which was exclusive.
Rev Stat. §§ 2931, 3011. Arnson v Murphy, 115 U. S. 579,
Cheatham v United States, 92 U S. 85. While the commonlaw right was outstanding, the collector withheld as an indemnity the sum in dispute, but Congress provided that he must

HAGER v. SWAYINE.
Opinion of the Court.

pay into the Treasury all moneys received officially, and that
the Secretary of the Treasury should refund erroneous and
illegal exactions. Rev. Stat. §§ 3010, 3012-.
The suit to recover back an excess of duties necessarily could
only be maintained as affirmatively specified in the statute.
Section 3011 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act
of Congress of February 27, 1877, 19 Stat. 240, 247, c. 69,
provides
"Any person who shall have made payment under protest
and in order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for
him, to any collector, or person acting as collector, of any
money as duties, when such amount of duties was not, or was
not wholly, authorized by law, may maintain an action in the
nature of an action at law, which shall be triable by jury, to
ascertain the validity of such demand and payment of duties,
and to recover back any excess so paid. But no recovery shall
be allowed in such action unless a protest and appeal shall have
been taken as prescribed in section twenty-nine hundred and
thirty-one."
Section 2931 reads as follows
"On the entry of any vessel, or of any merchandise, the
decision of the collector of customs at the port of importation
and entry, as to the rate and amount of duties to be paid on
the tonnage of such vessel or on such merchandise, and the
dutiable costs and charges thereon, shall be final and conclusive
against all persons interested therein, unless the owner, master,
commander, or consignee of such vessel, in the case of duties
levied on tonnage, or the owner, importer, consignee, or agent
of the merchandise, in the case of duties levied on merchandise,
or the costs and charges thereon, shall, within ten days after
the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by the proper
officers of the customs, as well in cases of merchandise entered
in bond as for consumption, give notice in writing to the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision, setting
forth therein, distinctly and specifically, the grounds of his
objection thereto, and shall within thirty days after the date
of such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal therefrom to the
Secretary of the Treasury The decision of the Secretary on

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

such appeal shall be final and conclusive, and such vessel, or
merchandise, or costs and charges, shall be liable to duty
accordingly, unless suit shall be brought within ninety days
after the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury on such
appeal for any duties which shall have been paid before the
date of such decision on such vessel, or on such merchandise,
or costs or charges, or within ninety days after the payment
of duties paid after the decision of the Secretary No suit
shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of any duties
alleged to have been erroneously or illegally exacted, until the
decision of the Secretary of the Treasury shall have been first
had on such appeal, unless the decision of the Secretary shall
be delayed more than ninety days from the date of such appeal
in case of an entry at any port east of the Rocky Mountains,
or more than five months in case of an entry west of those
mountains."
From these sections it appears that it is the "owner, importer, consignee, or agent of the merchandise, in the case of
duties levied on merchandise," who must protest and appeal,
and he is the person who, having made payment under protest
"in order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for
him," may maintain the action. It does not follow that
devisees, representatives of the estate of deceased persons,
assignees in bankruptcy or by operation of law, are excluded
from bringing suit, for they take by devolution, and are
regarded as succeeding in interest to the original party But
the statute does not contemplate that a stranger may bring
the action, and such is a voluntary assignee of the mere naked
right.
In Castro v. Seeberger, 40 Fed. Rep. 531, Castro had purchased the merchandise of the importer while it was in bond,
and pending an appeal, and after the decision of the appeal
paid the duties assessed in order to obtain possession of the
property, and thereupon brought the suit, and it was decided
by Judge Blodgett, holding the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Illinois, that the claim against the collector became
attached to and followed the merchandise so as to make the
purchaser, who paid the charges, constructively the importer

HAGER v. SWAYNE.
Opimon of the Court.

and entitled to maintain the action under the statute. The
purchaser obtained an interest in the thing itself. The case
here is wholly different; for these importers, after the decision
of the Secretary, paid the duties and took the goods themselves, and then attempted to assign a bare right of action to
this plaintiff.
By section 3471, all transfers and assignments made of any
claim upon the United States, or of any part or share thereof,
or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever might be the consideration therefor, and all powers of
attorney, orders, or other authorities for receiving payment
of any such claim, or of any part or share thereof, were
declared to be absolutely null and void, unless they were freely
made and executed in the presence of at least two attesting
witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for the
payment thereof. The language is general which declares
the nullity of such assignments, and the only cases where they
are recognized is where a warrant has already issued. If
there are any cases where the claim cannot be paid by
warrant, then they do not come within the exception, but are
affected by the general language. 16 Op. Atty Gen. 261.
The mischiefs designed to be remedied by this section were
declared by Mr. Justice Miller in Goodmazn v Hiblack, 102
U. S. 556, to be mainly two, first, the danger that the rights
of the government might be embarrassed by having to deal
with several persons instead of one, and by the introduction
of a party who was a stranger to the original transaction,
second, that by a transfer of such claim against the government to one or more persons not originally interested in it,
the way might be conveniently opened to such improper
influences in prosecuting the claim before the Departmerits,
the courts, or the Congress, as desperate cases, where the
award is contingent on success, so often suggest.
It has been frequently held that the section does not include
transfers by operation of law, or by will, in bankruptcy, or
insolvency But/er v Goreley, 146 U S. 303, and cases cited.
But the legislation shows that the intent of Congress was

