OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

is no condition or restriction in the present case in the title of
the defendant. He was the assignee and owner of the patent
for the State of Michigan.
Judgment affirmed.

MINNEAPOLIS

AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. EMMONS.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINESOTA.
No. 240. Submitted April 21, 1893.-Decided May 10, 1893.

The statutes of the State of Minnesota, requiring railway companies to
fence their roads, are not in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States.

THnE case is stated in the opinion.

.Afr Albert E. Clarke for plaintiff in error.
_Lr
MR.

ddward J ffill for defendant in error.
JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff below, the defendant in error here, is a citizen
of Minnesota, and for some years previously and at the commencement of this action was the owner of a farm in that
State of one hundred and sixty acres, which he occupied with
his family as a homestead. He enclosed the farm with a suitable fence, cultivated it, and kept stock upon it. In October,
1879, he sold and conveyed to the defendant, a railway cor)oration organized under the laws of the State, a right of way
for a railroad across the farm fifty feet wide on each side of
the road. Soon afterwards the company constructed the road
on the right of the way purchased, but neglected to build and
maintain any fences on either side of it, or cattle guards where
the road enters and leaves the land purchased, as required by

M DiEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v. EMMONS.

365

Opinion of the Court.

the statute of the State, and to recover damages for such
failure the present action was brought.
The statute which was passed by the legislature in 1876
provided that all railroad companies in the State should, within
six months after its passage, "build or cause to be built
good and sufficient cattle guards at all wagon crossings, and
good and substantial fences on each side" of their roads, and
declared that they should be liable for domestic animals killed
or injured by their negligence, and that a failure to build and
maintain cattle guards and fences as above provided should
be deemed an "act of negligence on the part of such compares," and, by its fourth section, that any company or corporation owning and operating a line of railroad within the
State, which had failed and neglected to fence its roads, and
to erect crossings and maintain cattle guards, as required by
the terms of its charter, and the amendments thereof, should
thereafter "be liable, in case of litigation, for treble the amount
of damages suffered by any person, in consequence of such
neglect, to be recovered in a civil action, or actual damages
if paid within ten days after notice of such damages." General Laws, Minnesota, 1876, c. 24.
In 1877 this last section was amended so as to declare that
"any company or corporation guilty of the failure or neglect
mentioned should be liable for all damages sustained by any
person in consequence of such failure or neglect." General
Laws, Minnesota, 1877, c. 73, General Statutes, Minnesota,
1878, c. 34, ยง 57.
On the trial it appeared in evidence that the defendant had
operated its road and run daily trains through the farm, without building the required fences on each side of its track, or
constructing cattle guards at the wagon crossings, and the
plaintiff, who kept cattle upon his land, was in consequence
obliged, at much expense, to watch his cattle for some years
before the commencement of this action, to keep them from
being killed by passing trains, which subjected him to great
inconvenience, loss of time, and expenditure of money, and
deprived him of the free and beneficial use and enjoyment of
his land, and lessened its value. He recovered a verdict of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

one thousand dollars for the damages sustained, upon which,
and for costs, judgment was entered in his favor.
This case had, on a previous occasion, been before the
Supreme Court of the State on appeal. The court below had
held that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and dismissed it and refused a motion
for a new trial. On appeal from the order denying the motion
the ruling below was reversed and a new trial granted. In
giving its decision, the Supreme Court, among other things,
held that to regulate the carrying on of any business liable to
be injurious to the property of others, like that of operating a
railroad, so that it shall do the least possible injury to such
property, was as much within the police power of the State as
regulating it with a view to protect life from its dangers, and
that the State might, under that power, require railroads to
be so constructed, maintained, and operated, and so protected
and enclosed, that they would injure as little as possible the
farms or lands through or alongside of which they run, and
that the legislation of the. State having this object in view
was valid.
It was objected below that the statute, as thus interpreted,
denied to the railroad companies the equal protection of the
laws of the State, as required by the first section of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The point of the objection, as indicated in the opinion of the Supreme Court, so far as we can
understand it, was this, that the statute in requiring railway
companies to fence their roads was a police regulation, having
for its object to prevent animals from getting on the tracks
and the consequent danger of injury to the animals themselves
and to railway passengers and emploves, and, therefore, to
impose penalties and authorize a recovery-of damages for noncompliance with the law for other than the resultant injuries
to animals and railway passengers and employes, was in excess
of the police power of the State, and a departure from its
general law, which imposed penalties and damages only for
the direct injuries sought to be prevented, and did not extend
them so as to cover consequential and possible resulting
injuries.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v. EAIMMONS. 367
Opinion of the Court.

The answer to this is that there is no inhibition upon a
State to impose such penalties for disregard of its police regulations as will insure prompt obedience to their requirements.
For what injuries the party violating their requirements shall
be liable, whether immediate or remote, is a matter of legislative discretion. The operating of railroads without fences
and cattle guards undoubtedly increases the danger which
attends the operation of all railroads. It is only by such
fences and guards that the straying of cattle, running at large,
upon the tracks can be prevented and security had against
accidents from that source, and the extent of the penalties
which should be imposed by the State for any disregard of its
legislation in that respect is a matter entirely within its control. It was not essential that the penalty should be confined
to damages for the actual loss to the owner of cattle injured
by the want of fences and guards, it was entirely competent
for the legislature to subject the company to any incidental or
consequential damages, such as the loss of rent, the expenses
of keeping watch to guard cattle from straying upon the
tracks, or any other expenditure to which the adjoimng owner
was subjected in consequence of failure of the company to
construct the required fences and cattle guards. No discrimination is made against any particular railroad companies or
corporations, all are treated alike, and required to perform
the same duty, and, therefore, no invasion was attempted of
the equality of protection ordained by the Fourteenth Amendment.
It was also objected that the statutes of Minnesota, in requiring the defendant to build partition fences for the benefit
of adjoining land owners, or to pay damages for not building
them, imposes upon-the company a duty not required by contract, common law, or its charter, and is, therefore, a violation
of the right conferred by the charter to buy and hold lands
for specified purposes, the same as any other land owner.
To this position we answer that the extent of the obligations
and duties required of railway corporations or companies by
their charters does not create any limitation upon the State
against imposing all such further duties as may be deemed

