CATES v. ALLEN.
Syllabus.

been allowed to avail itself of the old membership, still its
liability, if any, would be for a conversion, and the defences
of laches and limitations would apply
Viewed as an action for conversion, recovery was clearly
barred as to the plaut and the good will, and also as to this
certificate, which was issued independently of the mortgage
and not embraced within it. And so far as the bill proceeds
upon the theory that the plant, the good will and the memberslnp ought on equitable principles to be held subject to the
lien of the mortgage, the court properly declined to assist a
complainant that had slept upon its alleged rights for nearly
eight years, and shown no excuse for its laches in asserting
them. Oases sustaining the proposition that a mortgage may
be foreclosed even after the debt has become barred by limitation have no application, nor does the fact that the Bowman
note was still alive when the suit was instituted, since the
question In this aspect is whether either or any of these
alleged properties should on equitable gtounds be brought
within the operation of the mortgage, and upon that question
we regard the delay of the complaanant as an insuperable
obstacle to a decree m its favor.
Decree afirmed.

CATES v. ALLEN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT couRT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 153.

Argued March 22, 1893.-Decided May 10, 1893.

,A contract, creditor who has not reduced his claim to judgment has no
standing in a Circuit Court of the United States, sitting as a court of
eauitv) upon a bill to set aside and vacate a fraudulent conveyance.
,Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106, affirmed and applied.
Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, and Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146,
distinguished.
The fact that a court of chancery may summon a jury cannot be regarded
as the equivalent of the right of a trial by jury, secured by the Seventh
Amendment to the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
When a suit over which a state court has full jurisdiction in equity is
removed to a Circuit Court of the United States on the ground of diverse
citizenship, and it appears that the courts of the United States have no
jurisdiction in equity over such a controversy the cause should be
remanded to the state court, instead of dismissing it for want of
jurisdiction.

R. C. CATES, D. Andrews and L. L. Cates, as individuals
and as composing the firms of Luke Cates & Company and
Andrews, Cates & Company, made their deed of assignment
for the benefit of creditors, December 7, 1886, whereby they
conveyed their property to assignees therein mentioned to be
converted into money and applied to the payment of their
debts, certain creditors being preferred. J H. Allen, T. W
West, and J C. Bush, citizens, respectively, of Louisiana, Missouri, and Alabama, and doing business in New Orleans as
general commission merchants and cotton factors, under the
name of Allen, West and Bush, filed their bill of complaint,
December 8, 1886, in the chancery court of Lee County, Mississippi, against IR. C. Cates, L. L. Cates, D Andrews, and the
assignees mentioned in the assignment, alleging an indebtedness to the complainants of more than 816,000 on open account,
and charging that the assignment above mentioned was fraudulent in law and in fact, made without any valuable consideration, and with the fraudulent intent to hinder, delay, and
defraud the complainants and other creditors, and that the
same ouight to be set aside and the property assigned subjected to the payment of complainants' demand. The bill
also charged that one of the assignees, who at the time of the
filing of the bill was in possession of a large part of the
assigned property, was insolvent, and that it would be dangerous to allow him to remain in the possession and control
thereof, that he was in possession of the books 6f account
and choses in action of the assignors, and was proceeding to
collect the same, that there was danger that they would be
lost to complainants and the other creditors, and that irreparable injury might thereby result. The bill prayed for answers
under oath, and that on final hearing the assignment might
be decreed to be void and set aside, that all the property

CATES v. ALLEN.
Counsel for Appellants.

covered by the assignment might be subjected to the payment
of complainants' debts and then to the payment of such other
demands as might be brought before the court, for an injunction, for a writ of sequestration, for a receiver, that the filing
of the bill be held to give complainants the first lien on the
effects of the said debtors in the hands of the assignees, or
either of the parties or any other person, and for general
relief. A writ of sequestration was issued and the sheriff took
possession of the property, and a number of other creditors,
were subsequently admitted as co-complainants.
On December 15, 1886, Allen, West, and Bush and their
co-complainants filed their petition to remove the cause into
the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Mississippi, exercising the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of
the United States, and bond was given and the cause removed
accordingly Receivers were thereafter appointed, and on
April 15, 1887, the Tishomingo Savings Institution, a pre:
ferred creditor, was made a defendant. A demurrer was filed
alleging as grounds that there was no equity on the face of
the bill, that the claims of complainants had not been reduced
to judgment, that they had no lien and were not entitled to
file a bill under the law, and for want of proper parties. This
demurrer was overruled and defendants answered. Evidence
was taken and hearing had, and on October 28, 1887, the court
adjudged the assignment to be fraudulent and void, and set
the same aside, found the sum of $17,732.71 to be due Allen,
West, and Bush, decreed that indebtedness to be a first lien
and charge on the assets of Andrews, Cates & Co., and ordered
the receiver to pay said sum out of the proceeds of the sales
and collections of and from the assets of that firm. Various
other orders were entered in that behalf and with reference,
to other funds and appropriations for the claims of other
creditors, which it is unnecessary to notice. The report of
the receiver showed amounts paid to Allen, West, and Bush
of nearly $14,000.
-Mr .
f. .Bmtow,with whom was
the brief, for appellants.

r

B. Walker on

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

.M?" JoUn . Allen for appellees.
The first question presented in this case is one not
altogether free from difficulty, and one which has not, so far
as I am aware, been directly passed upon by this court.
That is the question as to whether or not the United States
equity court will entertain a suit properly begun in a state
chancery court, and removed in accordance with the laws for
removal of causes from state to Federal courts, where the
Federal Court would not have taken original jurisdiction.
I am aware that since the final decree in the case under consideration that in the case of Scott v Neely, 140 U. S. 106, this
court has decided that a simple contract creditor cannot avail
himself of the rights given by sections 1843 and 1845 of the
code of Mississippi by filing a bill in the United States court.
If the principles laid down in this case are applicable to
removed cases, it would seem to settle the 3urisdictional
question against us. I cannot believe, however , that this case
is necessarily controlled by the reasoning in the case of Scott
v NYeely. We have here a case properly brought and cogrnzable in the chancery court of Lee county, Mississippi. If
the allegations of the bill were true it entitled us not only to
have the assignment set aside but gave us a lien on all the
property assigned from the filing of the bill, and entitled us
to a decree for the amount of our debt, to be satisfied out of
this property
Now, then, being citizens of different States, from the
appellants, the defendants b~low, and having a controversy
with a sufficient amount in controversy, we were entitled
under the removal statute to remove the case to the United
States Circuit Court, and this we did. Now the question
is did we forfeit any of our rights by this removal 2
Does the law give us the right to remove and then destroy
every right we had in the state court by the removal 2 I am
sure this cannot be the law Counsel for appellants admit
that there are some cases of which the Federal Court would
not have had original jurisdiction, but of which they can
acquire jurisdiction by removal, and they cite the following

CATES v. ALLEN.
Argument for Appellees.

cases m support of this position Barney v. Bank, 5 Blatchford, 107, Sayles v Ins. Co. 2 Curtis, 212, Warner v Railroad, 13 Blatchford, 231. I have examined these cases, but
I do not find that they disclose a distinction m principle
between them and this case.
This court has said time and again that a person loses no
right by coming into the United States court. If this be
true, we have certainly lost none. We have the right in the
state court to try the issues raised by our bill and to have a
decree condemning the. property and giving us our money if
we proved our case. Now we had the right of removal. Did
we loose our other rights by exercising the right of removal2
Suppose the petition for removal had been made by the
defendants in the court below Who can say they were not
entitled to remove their case to the United States court 2
Then if they had the right of removal, could they remove a
case from a court in winch their adversary had a good case to
a court where by the act of removal the case was destroyed 2
This could not be. If such were the case it would furnish a
new method of defence. Then so far as the proceeding in
the United States court is concerned, it makes no difference
winch party removed the case.
The conclusions reached by this court in the case of &ott
v. ]feely were founded on the judiciary act of 1789, defining
the jurisdiction of. equity courts and the further reasoning
that to enforce the Mississippi statute in the United States
equity court would be to deprive parties of their constitutional
right to a trial by jury I recognize the soundness of the
reasoning in that case, based on-the Federal statutes defining
the jurisdiction of equity courts, but it does seem to me that
the removal statute being an enactment of equal dignity, and
of a later date amounts to a modification of the act of 1789,
which would give the United States equity court jurisdiction
to try and dispose of this case.
So far as the constitutional objection, that the appellants
were deprived of the right of trial by jury is concerned, I do
not thnk it can avail the appellants in this case. I do not
understand that because a case is tried on the equity side of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the docket, that a party is necessarily deprived of the right
to try an issue properly triable by a jury
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE FULLFR,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.

-.

Complainants were simple contract creditors, who had not
reduced their claims to judgment, and therefore had no standing in the United States Circuit Court, sitting as a court of
equity, upon a bill to set aside and vacate a fraudulent conveyance. The suit was originally brought in the state court
under sections 1843 and 1845 of the Code of Mississippi of 1880,
which provided that the chancery courts of that State should
have jurisdiction of bills exhibited by creditors who had not
obtained judgments at law, or, having judgments, had not
had executions returned unsatisfied, to set aside fraudulent
conveyances of property or other devices resorted to for the
purpose of hindering, delaying, or defrauding creditors, and
might subject the property to the satisfaction of the demands
of such creditors as if the complainants had had judgment
and execution thereon returned no property found, and that
"the creditor in such case shall have a lien upon the property
described therein from the filing of his bill, except as against
bona fide purchasers before the service of process upon the
defendant in such bill."
These sections were considered in Scott v. ]'teely, 140 U S.
106, and it was therein determined that the Circuit Courts of
the United States in Mississippi could not under their operation take jurisdiction of a bill in equity to subject the property
of the defendants to the payment of a simple contract debt
in advance of any proceeding at law, either to establish the
validity or amount of the debt, or to enforce its collection.
It was there shown that the Constitution of the United States,
in creating and defining the judicial power of the general
government, had established the distinction between law and
equity, and that equitable relief in aid of demands cognizable

in the courts of the United States only on their law side could
not be sought in the same action, although allowable in the

CATES v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

state courts by virtue of state legislation, Bennett v. Buttervworth, 11 How 669, Tiompson v Railroad Comlpanzes, 6
Wall. 134, &cott v Armstrong, 146 U S. 499, 512, and that
the Code of Mississippi in giving to a simple contract creditor
a right to seek in equity, in advance of any judgment or legal
proceedings upon his contract, the removal of obstacles to the
recovery of his claim caused by fraudulent conveyances of
property whereby the whole suit involving the determination
of the validity of the contract and the amount due thereon is
treated as one in equity to be beard and disposed of without
a trial by jury, could not be enforced in the courts of the
United States because in conflict with the constitutional provision by which the right to a trial by jury is secured.
The principle that a general creditor cannot assail as fraudulent against creditors, an assignment or transfer of property
made by his debtor until the creditor has first established his
debt by the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction,
and has either acquired a lien upon the property, or is in a
situation to _efect a lien thereon and subject it to thepayment of his judgment, upon the removal of the obstacle presented by the fraudulent assignment or transfer, is elementary
Waite on Fraud. Con. sec. 73, and cases cited. The existence
of judgment, or of judgment and execution, is necessary, first,
as adjudicating and definitely establishing the legal demand,
and, second, as exhausting the legal remedy
This was well settled in Mississippi prior to the enactment
in question. In Partee v. .athews, 53 Mississippi, 140, it was
ruled by the Supreme Court that no creditor but one who has
a lien by judgment or otherwise, in full force at the time the
bill is filed, can attack in equity a transfer of property as
fraudulent, and that, as between equitable and legal assets,
the creditor must exhaust legal means, by the issue of execution and its return nulla bona, in order to reach the first,
while, as to the latter, a judgment which acts as a lien on the
property sought to be charged would be sufficient as the basis
of a bill.
In Flem-mg v Grafton, 54 Mississippi, 79, the subject was
very much considered, and the English and American author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opumon of the Court.

ities cited to a large extent,, and the opinion concludes
"Courts of equity are not ordinarily tribunals for the collection of debts, some special reason must be offered by the
creditor before they will extend aid to him. If he is a judgment creditor, he must show that he has a lien, either by
judgment, if the statute gives such lien, if it arises from the
execution, he must show that one has been issued, or, if it
arises from a levy of the writ, that must have been made."
In Scott v 2Steely, it was said by Mr. Justice Field, (p. 113,)
speaking for the court "In all cases where a court of equity
interferes to aid the enforcement of a remedy at law, there
must be an acknowledged debt, or one established by a judgment rendered, accompanied by a right to the appropriation
of the property of the debtor for its payment, or, to speak
with greater accuracy, there must be, in addition to such
acknowledged or established debt, an interest in the property
or a lien thereon created by contract or by some distinct legal
proceeding. Smith v Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 398, 401, Angell v. -Draper,1 Vern. 398, 399, Shirley v. Watts, 3 Atk.
200, TFiggins v. Armstrong, 2 Johns. 144, ]JlcElwamn v
WIillis, 9 Wend. 548, 556, Gr2ppen v. Hudson, 3 Kernan,
161, Jones v Green, 1 Wall. 330.
It is the existence,
before the suit in equity is instituted, of a lien upon or interest
in the property, created by contract or by contribution to its
value by labor or material, or by judicial proceedings had,
which distinguishes cases for the enforcement of such lien or
interest from the case at bar."
The mere fact that a party is a creditor is not enough. :He
must be a creditor with a specific right or equity in the property, and this is the foundation of the jurisdiction in chancery, because jurisdiction on account of the alleged fraud of
the debtor does not attach as against the immediate parties to
the impugned transfer, except in aid of the legal right.
Doubtless new classes of cases may by legislative action be
directed to be tried in chancery, but they must, when tested
by the general principles of equity, be of an equitable character, or based on some recognized ground of equity interposition. This will be found to be true of the decisions in

CATES v. ALLEN.
Opinon of the Court.

Holland v OkalZen, 110 U S. 15, Wk'hehead v. ,Shattuck,
138 U. S. 146, and like cases.
The fact that section 1845 aims to create a lien by the filing
of the bill does not affect the question, for in order to invoke
equity interposition in the United States courts the lien must
exist at the time the bill is filed and form its basis, and to
allow a lien resulting from the issue of process to constitute
such ground would be to permit state legislation to withdraw
all actions at law from the one court to the other, and unite
legal and equitable claims in the same action, which.cannot
be allowed in the practice of the courts of the United States,
in which the distinction between law and equity is matter of
substance and not merely of form and procedure. And as the
ascertainment of the complainants' demand is by action at
law, the fact that the chancery court has the power to summon a jury on occasion cannot be regarded as the equivalent
of the right of trial by jury secured by the Seventh Amendment. Tfhitehead v Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146, Buzard v.
.Houston, 119 U S. 311. 0
The result is that this decree must be reversed, as the case
comes directly within Scott v .Seely, from the rule laid down
in which we have no disposition to recede. It is suggested
that the bill might be sustained under the prayer for general
relief, as brought for the administration of the assets under
the assignment, but such relief would not be agreeable to the
case made by the bill, which was directed to the setting aside
of that instrument. The Circuit Court was, therefore, in error
in proceeding in the case.
The bill was originally fied in the state court and removed
December 15, 1886, under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat.
, c. 137, on the ground of diverse citizenship. By the fifth
section of that act, if, in any suit "removed from a state court
to a Circuit Court of the United States, it shall appear to the
satisfaction of said Circuit Court, at any tune after such suit has
been brought or removed thereto, that such suit does not really
and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly
the said
within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court,
Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein but shall dismiss

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the suit or remand it to the court from which it was removed
as justice may require, and shall make such order as to costs
as shall be just." Under the act of March 3,1887, 24 Stat.
552, c. 373, a Circuit Court may remand a case upon deciding
that it was improperly removed. So far as citizenship and
amount were concerned the plaintiffs were entitled to file
their petition for removal, but the nature of the controversy
was such that the suit was not properly cognizable in the
Circuit Court for the reasons heretofore given. While there
are cases where the courts of the United States may acquire
jurisdiction by removal from state courts when jurisdiction
would not have attached if the suits had been originally
brought therein, those are cases of jurisdiction over the parties
and not of jurisdiction based upon the subject-matter of the
litigation, and furnish no rule for the disposition of cases such
as that before us. But it is not to be concluded where diverse
citizenship might enable the parties to remove a case but for
the objection arising from the nature of the controversy, that,
if .such removal has been had, the suit must be dismissed on
the ground of want of jurisdiction. On the contrary, we are
of opinion that it is the duty of the Circuit Court under such
circumstances to remand the cause. The Circuit Court has
jurisdiction to determine whether or not the case was properly
removed, and this court has jurisdiction to pass upon that
determination.
In Thompson v Railroad Companies, 6 Wall. 134, an ordinary action at law was brought in the state court and removed
to the United States court, where a bill in equity was substituted by leave of court, and the suit progressed as a suit in
chancery It was held that the distinctions between the two
kinds of proceeding could not be obliterated by state legislation, and the decree was reversed, and the cause remanded
with directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice. In the
case before us a bill in equity sustainable m the state court
was removed by the complainants under the act of 1875, and
it was the duty of the Circuit Court upon ascertaining that it
was improperly removed to remand the case. Under the acts
of Congress that court was not compelled to dismiss the case,

CATES v. ALLEN.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, Jackson, JJ.

but might have remanded it, and we may, therefore, direct it
to do now what should have been done in the first instance.
.Nansfteld, Coldwater &c. Railway v. Swan, 111 U S. 379.
It will be for the state court to determine what orders
should be made, if any, m regard to the amounts complainants
have received under the decrees of the Circuit Court. As the
removal was upon the application of appellees, they must be
cast in the costs.
The decree of the Circuit Court us accordingly reversed with
costs against the appellees, and the cause remanded to the
Circuit Court wtth directions to render yudgment against
them for costs in that court, and to remand the cause to
the chancer/ court of Zee County, .Missss pp, and it zs so
ordered.
MR.

BizowN, with whom concurred Mu.
dissenting.

JUSTIcE

TACoxsoN,

JusTi-E

This was a bill m equity filed m the state court by
creditors, to set aside an alleged fraudulent assignment, under
a provision of the Mississippi Code, which gives the chancery
court of that State jurisdiction of bills by creditors who have
not obtained judgments, or, having judgments, have not had
executions returned unsatisfied, to set aside fraudulent conveyances of property, or other devices resorted to for the purpose of defrauding creditors. The case was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States under the act of 1875, the
second section of which provides "That any suit of a civil
nature, at law or in equity, now pending or hereafter brought
in any state court, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars,
m which there shall be a controversy between citizens
of different States,
either party may remove said
suit," etc.
In the opinion of the court this case is controlled by that of
Scott v iYeely, 140 U S. 106, in which it was held that the
Circuit Courts of the United States in Mississippi could not,
under this provision of the code of that State, take jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Jackson, JJ.

tion of a bill in equity to subject the property of the defendants to the payment of a simple contract debt of one of them
in advance of any proceedings at law, either to establish the
validity and amount of the debt, or to force its collection, for
the reason that m such proceedings the defendant is entitled
under the Constitution to a trial by jury of the existence or
the amount of the debt. While I freely concede the general
rule to be as stated, that a bill of this kind will not be entertaned without a prior judgment and execution at law, I am
unwilling to admit that the Federal courts are incompetent
to administer a state law which provides that such a bill may
be filed by a simple contract creditor, where the requisite
diversity of citizenship exists, and the requisite amount is
involved. In a case where such a bill was filed in the state
court the statute then in force gave to either party the
absolute light of removal of the suit to the Federal court,
upon the clear assumption that the Federal court had the
same power to administer the law that the state court had.
I freely concede that, if the state system of jurisprudence
should invest the court of chancery with an ordinary common
law jurisdiction, as, for example, with jurisdiction of an action
upon a promissory note, such cause, when removed to the
Federal court, would simply be placed on the common law
side, and be tried by a jury But in this case the jurisdiction
of the Federal court as a court of chancery may be supported,
not only upon the ground that the proof of the debt is merely
an incidental feature of the bill, but upon the further ground,
stated in the statute, that "the creditor in such case shall
have a lien upon the property described therein from the
filing of his bill," etc., a fact which in Case v Beauregard
101 U S. 688, was held to obviate the necessity of a prior
judgment and execution.
I had always supposed it to be a cardinal rule of Federal
jurisprudence that the Federal courts are competent to administer any state statute investing parties with a substantial
right. As was said in Exparte Afciiel, 13 Wall. 236, 243
"A state law cannot give jurisdiction to any Federal court,
but that is not a question in this case. A state law may give

CATES v. ALLEN.
Dissenting Opinion

Brown, Jackson, JJ.

a substantial right of such a character that where there is no
impediment arising from the residence of the parties, the
right may be enforced in the proper Federal tribunal, whether
it be a court of equity, of admiralty, or of common law The
statute in such cases does not confer the jurisdiction. That
exists already, and it is invoked to give effect to the right by
applying the appropriate remedy This principle may be laid
down as amomatic in our National jurisprudence. A party
forfeits nothing by going into a Federal tribunal. Jurisdiction having attached, his case is tried there upon the same
principles, and its determination is governed by the same
considerations, as if it had been brought in the proper state
tribunal of the same locality" So also in Davw v Gray, 16
Wall. 203, 221 "A party by going into a National court
does not lose any right or appropriate remedy of which he
might have availed himself in the state courts of the same
locality The wise policy of the Constitution gives him a
choice of tribunals." So also in the case of Broderick's Till,
21 Wall. 503, 520, it is said that "whilst it is true that alterations in the jurisdiction of the state courts cannot affect the
equitable jurisdiction of Circuit Courts of the United States,
so long as the equitable rights themselves remain, yet an
enlargement of equitable rights may be administered by the
Circuit Courts as well as by the courts of the. State." In the
case of Hlloand v Challen, 110 U. S. 15, a statute of Nebraska
providing that an action might be brought and prosecuted to
a final decree by any person claiming title to real estate,
whether in actual possession or not, against any person claiming an adverse estate or interest therein, for the purpose of
determining such estate and interest, and quieting title, was
held to be enforceable m the Federal courts, although it
dispensed with the general rule of equity that, in order to
maintain a bill to qmet title, it was necessary that the party
should be in possession, and that his title should have been
established by law The statute under consideration merely
dispenses with the general rule of courts of equity that in
order to maintain a creditor's bill a prior judgment and execution at law is necessary, and the case appears to me to be
directly in point

OCTOBER

TERM, 1892.

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Jackson, JJ.

In this case the court of equity proceeds to establish the
debt, not as a personal judgment against the debtor, which
may be sued upon in any other court, but for a purpose special
to that case, in order to reach property which has been fraudulently conveyed and to appropriate it to the paynent of the
debt. If the object of the proceeding were the establishment
of a debt for all purposes, which should become re8 adjudicata
in other proceedings, and be suable elsewhere as an established
claim against the debtor, or were not a mere incident to the
chancery jurisdiction, I can understand why the constitutional
provision might apply But m this case I see no more reason
for requiring a common law action to establish the debt than
m case of the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement
of a mechanics' lien, where proof of an existing debt is equally
necessary to warrant a decree. In Stewart v Dunham, 115
UI. S. 61, a bill in equity was filed by creditors m the chancery
court of IMississippi under this statute, was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States, and was prosecuted to a
decree in that court, although it is but just to say that no
question seems to have been made with regard to the 3urisdiction in this particular. The same may be said of Dewey v
West ]F? rmont Gas Coal Co., 123 U. S. 329, in which a bill under
a similar statute of West Virginia was sustained in an opinion
by Mr. Justice Matthews. Indeed, proceedings under these
statutes, which are common to many of the States, are m the
nature of an equitable attachment, and operate to impound
the debtor's property for the payment of the claim.
The logical consequence of the position assumed by the
court in this case is that it is compelled to remand the case
for a reason entirely outside of the removal acts, and thus to
deny to the removing party the benefit of the act. I understand the duty imposed by the fifth section of the act to
remand a cause which it appears "does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within
the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court," to be limited to disputes or controversies not within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court by reason of the reqmsite citizenship not really existing,
or being collusively obtained, as in .awes v Oakland, 104

