OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

by his neglect to testify, it clearly meant that m cases where
the defendant should not choose to avail himself of the privilege offered by the statute, the trial should be conducted in the
same manner and upon the same presumptions as if the statute
had not been passed." And again "We do not see how this
statute can be completely enforced, unless it be adopted as a
rule of practice that such improper and forbidden reference
by counsel for the prosecution shall be regarded good ground
for a new trial in all cases where the proofs of guilt are not
so clear and conclusive that the court can say affirmatively the
accused could not have been harmed from that cause."
This view of the effect of the objections taken to the course
of the district attorney, and to the failure of the court to
properly condemn it, renders it unnecessary to consider any
other alleged errors.
Thejudgment must be reversed and the cause remanded with
directons to award a new trial, and it is so ordered.

I

re FREDERICH, Petitioner.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 1305. Argued April,, 10, 1893.-Decided April 24, 1893.

When a prisoner, convicted of crime n a state court and sentenced there
to punishment, complains that his rights under the Constitution or laws
of the United States have been thereby violated, he may seek relief in the
federal courts by an application either to the proper Circuit Court for a
writ of habeas corpus, or to a justice of this court for a writ of error to the
state court.
The remedy by habeas corpus should be limited to cases in which the judgment or sentence attacked is clearly void by reason of its having been
rendered without jurisdiction, or by reason of the court's having exceeded its jurisdiction in the premises, and the general rule and better
practice, in the absence of special facts and circumstances, is to require
the prisoner to seek a review by writ of error instead of resorting to
the writ of habeas corpus.

THIs was an appeal from an order denying an application
for a writ of habeas corpus addressed to the court below by

INl RE FREDERICH, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

Albert Frederich, a prisoner confined m the penitentiary of
the State of Washington, at Walla Walla, in that State.
The case, as made by the petition and accompanying exhibits,
was as follows: On the 17th of June, 1891, the prisoner was
duly indicted by the grand jury of King County, Washington,
for the murder of one Julius Scherbring, and upon said indictment he was subsequently arraigned, pleaded not guilty, was
tried by a jury, and on the 26th of September, 1891, was
found guilty of murder in the first degree. A motion for a
new trial having been overruled, he was sentenced to be hung.
From this judgment of death and the order overruling his
motion for a new trial the accused appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State, which reversed the judgment of the trial
court and remanded the case, with a direction to set aside and
vacate the judgment imposing the sentence of death, but to let
the verdict stand and to enter a new judgment thereon for murder in the second degree, that being, in the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State, the proper degree of his crime, inasmuch as the evidence in the case did not show such deliberate
and premeditated malice as would sustain a conviction of murder in the first degree. .Fredemeli v State, 4 Washington, 204.
This judgment of the Supreme Court was rendered under
and in pursuance of the following provision of 2 Hill's Ann.
Stats. and Code of Washington
"SEc. 1429. The Supreme Court may affirm, reverse or
modify any judgment or order appealed from, and may direct
the proper judgment or order to be entered, or direct a new
trial or further proceedings to be had."
Pursuant to this order of the Supreme Court, the prisoner,
on the 16th of June, 1892, was again brought before the trial
court and adjudged to be guilty of murder in the second
degree, and he was thereupon sentenced to imprisonment in
the state penitentiary for the term of twenty years. This
sentence having been carried into execution and the prisoner
incarcerated in the penitentiary, he, thereupon, on the 9th of
August, 1892, made this application for a writ of Aabeas
corpus, claiming that he was deprived of his liberty without due process of law, in violation of the provisions of the

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Argument for Petitioner.

Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
The grounds upon which this application was based were,
that the Supreme Court of the State was without jurisdiction
and did not have any authority, under said section 1429 of
the code, or under any other law, to render the judgment it
did, that all that court could do was either to affirm the judgment of the trial court outright, or to reverse it outright, and,
under proper instructions, remand the cause for a new trial by
a jury, that, therefore, its judgment was absolutely void, and
the judgment of the trial court in carrying out the directions
of the Supreme Court was, of necessity, void, and that the
prisoner ought, therefore, to be discharged.
The court below practically agreed with the petitioner that
the Supreme Court of the State had misinterpreted said section 1429 of the code, and that what it had actually done, by
its decision and judgment, was to modify the verdict of the
jury, which, under legal and proper proceedings, it had no
authority to do, that its judgment and the subsequent judgment of the trial court carrying it into effect were both void,
and that, therefore, the petitioner's imprisonment was without
due process of law and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. The Circuit Court further
ruled, however, that the petitioner's proper remedy was not
by writ of habeas corpus in the federal courts, in the first
instance, but that he should first raise the question of his
illegal imprisonment in the state courts, and if it was finally
decided against him by the state supreme court, he could
then have it reviewed and corrected by the Supreme Court
of the United States on a writ of error, and it accordingly
denied the application. 51 Fed. Rep. 'T47.
Mr Fr'ederc D ilcKenney, (with whom were _M9, S. F
Phillipsand Mr W B. Tyler on the brief,) said, on the question of jurisdiction
It being alleged under oath that Frederich is restrained
of his liberty in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, the

IN RE FREDERICH, Petitioner.
Argument for Petitioner.

Circuit Court, by the express words of the statute in such case
provided, had jurisdiction to inquire into the cause of the
restraint and to deal with the prisoner "as law and justice
require." Rev Stat. § 751, 752, 753, 754, 755, 761.
That the imprisonment is the result of the exercise of state
authority acting through its judicial agents does not affect the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to make inquiry in the premises, nor does it lessen its power to discharge the prisoner
upon a proper showing, and this, no matter whether the aid
of the Circuit Court be invoked prior to the trial in the state
court or subsequent to trial and conviction.
Expalrte 1oyall,
a
11-U S. 241. In re l'eagle, 135 U. S. 1.
Although this court may put a party to his writ of error
rather than interfere by habeas coqpus, (In re WVood, petitioner,
140 U. S. 278,) nevertheless it has the power, if it see fit to
do so, to proceed summarily by habeas corpus to determine
whether the petitioner is illegally restrained. Ex parte 1?oyall,
supra. And if it appear that the process by which the prisoner is detained be not merely erroneous, but is absolutely
void, a writ of habeas co2pus should be issued instanter if the
court to which the application is made is vested with jurisdiction. Emparte LTange, 18 Wall. 163/
Upon writ of error to give this court jurisdiction, it must
affirmatively appear on the face of the record not only that
a federal question was raised in the state courts, but that it
was decided or that its decision was necessary to the judgment or decree rendered. Chouteau v Gibson, 111 U. S. 200.
It will not do that such question was raised for the first time
on motion for rehearing or review Texas & Pao?§c Railway
v Southe'r'n Pacj%Railway, 137 U S. 48.
If it be true, as is stated in the opinion of the learned circuit
judge, that no federal question has yet been passed upon in
this case by the state supreme court, it would hardly be in
keeping with the principles of good practice and procedure to
insist that Frederich should hew out a new and circuitous
pathway to this tribunal, when a direct and simple road is
already open to him.
But it is not true that the validity of the judgment imposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the appellant by the Superior Court of King County is
open to further investigation upon appeal to the supreme
court of the State. The action of the county court is in precise accord with the mandate of the state supreme court.
Its judgment is in effect the judgment of the supreme court.
The state supreme court must be presumed to have acted
only after due consideration, and an appeal from a judgment
entered pursuant to its mandate would be but an appeal from
itself to itself. Such an appeal would be but a prayer in vain,
and the doing of a vain thing is never insisted upon by the
law Stewart v Salamon, 97 U S. 361, Humphrey v Baker,
103 U. S. 736, _Macka~l v. 1whards, 116 U. S. 45. In the
present state of the record in the state courts this is the sole
method by which the prisoner may invoke the aid of the
Federal Constitution in the maintenance of his fundamental
rights.
.fr TF C. Jones, Attorney General of the State of Washington, and 19, James A. Hamght, opposing, submitted on
their brief.
MR. JUSTICE JAo rsoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

At common law the general rule undoubtedly was that where
an erroneous judgment was entered by a trial court, or an erroneous sentence imposed, on a valid indictment, the appellate
court, on error, could not itself render such a judgment as the
trial court should have rendered or remit the case to the trial
court with directions for it to do so, but the only thing it could
do was to reverse the judgment and discharge the defendant.
This rule was recognized in England in the case of The Eing
v Bourne, 7 Ad. & El. 58, where the Court of King's Bench
reversed the judgment of the Court of Quarter Sessions, and
discharged the defendants because the sentence imposed upon
them by that court was of a lower grade than that which the
law provided for the crime of which they had been convicted.
Some of the States in which the common law prevails, or is

IN RE FREDERICH, Petitioner.

75

Opinion of the Court.
adhered to, have adopted the same rule, but in most of the
States it is expressly provided by statute that when there is
an error in the sentence which calls for a reversal, the appellate court is to render such judgment as the court below should
have rendered, or to remand the record to the court below
with directions for it to render the proper judgment. And
this practice seems to prevail in the State of Washington.
The whole subject is discussed in Wharton's Crim. Fl. & Pr.,
§§ 780, 927, where the authorities are collected and cited.
But whether this practice in the State of Washington is
warranted, under a correct construction of said § 1429 of the
code, or whether, if it is, that section violates the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution, in that it operates to
deprive a defendant whose case is governed by it of his liberty
without due process of law, we do not feel called upon to determine in this case, because we are of opinion that, for other
reasons, the writ of habeas corpus was properly refused.
While the writ of habeas corpus is one of the remedies for
the enforcement of the right to personal freedom, it will not
issue, as a matter of course, and it should be cautiously used
by the federal courts in reference to state prisoners. Being
a civil process it cannot be converted into aremedy for the correction of mere errors of judgment or of procedure in the court
having cognizance of the criminal offence. Under the writ of
habeas corpus, this court can'exercise no appellate jurisdiction
over the proceedings of the trial court or courts of the State,
nor review their conclusions of law or fact, and pronounce
them erroneous. The writ of habeas corpus is not a proceeding for the correction of errors. Em parte Zange, 18 Wall.
163, Ex parte Siebold, 100 U S. 371,
xparte Curts, 106
U S. 371, ED parte Carll, 106 U. S. 521, Ex parte Bgelow,
113 U S. 328, Exparte Yarbrough, 110 U S. 651, Ex parte
Wilson, 114 U S. 417, Exparte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, n re
Snow, 120 U. S. 274, In re Coy, 127 U S. 731, In Pe Wight,
petitioner, 134 U S. 136, Stevens v Fuller, 136 U. S. 468.
As was said by this court, speaking by -Mr. Iustice Harlan,
in Exparte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 252, 253, "where a person
is in custody, under process from a state court of original

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction, for an alleged offence against the laws of such

State, and it is claimed that he is restrained of his liberty in
violation of the Constitution of the United States, the Circuit
Court has a discretion whether it will discharge him, upon
habas corpus, in advance of his trial in the court in which he
is indicted, that discretion, however, to be subordinated to
any special circumstances requiring immediate action. When
the state court shall have finally acted upon the case, the
Circuit Court has still a discretion whether, under all the
circumstances then existing, the accused, if convicted, shall be
put to his writ of error from the highest court of the State, or
whether it will proceed by writ of h4abeas corpus summarily
to determine whether the petitioner is restrained of his
liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United States."
The office of a writ of habeas co;pus and the cases in
which it will generally be awarded was clearly stated by Mr.
Justice Bradley speaking for the court in E; parte Siebold,
100 U. S.371, 375, as follows "The only ground on which
this court, or any court, without some special statute authorizing it, will give relief on habeas corpus to a prisoner under
conviction and sentence of another court is the want of jurisdiction in such court over the person or the cause, or some
other matter rendering its proceedings void. This distinction
between an erroneous judgment and one that is illegal or void
is well illustrated by the two cases of Ex parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163, and Ex parte Parks, 93 U S.18. In the former
case we held that the judgment was void, and released the
prisoner accordingly, in the latter we held that the judgment,
whether erroneous or not, was not void because the court had
jurisdiction of the cause, and we refused to interfere." The
reason of this rule lies in the fact that a habeas copus
proceeding is a collateral attack of a civil nature to impeach
the validity of a judgment or sentence of another court in a
ariminal proceeding, and it should, therefore, be limited to
cases in which the judgment or sentence attacked is clearly
void by reason of its having been rendered without jurisdicLion, or by reason of the court's having exceeded its jurisdiction
[u the premises.

IN RE FREDERICH, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

It is said in Exparte 1oyall, &u.pr, that after a prisoner is
convicted of a crime in the highest court of the State in
which a conviction could be had, if such conviction was
obtained in disregard or in violation of rights secured to him
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, two remedies are open to him for relief in the fedbral courts - he may
either take his writ of error from this court, under § 709 of
the Revised Statutes, and have his case reexamined in that
way on the question of whether the state court has denied
him any right, privilege or immunity guaranteed him by the
Constitution and laws of the United States; or he may apply
for a writ of habeas corpws to be discharged from custody
under such conviction, on the ground that the state court
had no jurisdiction of either his person or the offence charged
against him, or had, for some reason, lost or exceeded its
jurisdiction, so as to render its judgment a nullity, in which
latter proceeding the federal courts could not review the
action or rulings of the state court, which could be reveiwed
by this court upon a writ of error. But, as already stated,
the Circuit Court has a discretion as to which of these remedies it will require the petitioner to adopt. This was expressly
ruled in Px parte 1?oyall, supra, and has been repeatedly
followed since that case. In the recent case of In Pe Wood,
140 U. S.278, 290, after reaffirming the rule laid down in
-Exparte Royall, the court added "After the final disposition of the case by the highest court of the State, the Circuit
Court, in its discretion, may put the party who has been
denied a right, privilege or immunity claimed under the
Constitution or laws of the United States to his writ of error
from this court, rather than interfere by writ of habea3
corPUS.'
We adhere to the views expressed in that case. It is certainly the better practice, in cases of this kind, to put the prisoner to his remedy by writ of error from this court, under
section 709 of the Revised Statutes, than to award him a writ
of habeas corpus. For, under proceedings by writ of error,
the validity of the judgment against him can be called in question, and the federal court left in a position to correct the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

wrong, if any, done the petitioner, and at the same time leave
the state authorities in a position to deal with him thereafter,
within the limits of proper authority, instead of discharging
him by habeas corpus proceedings, and thereby depriving the
State of the opportunity of asserting further jurisdiction over
his person in respect to the crime with which he is charged.
In some instances, as in fedleypetitwner, 134 U S. 160,
the proceeding by habeas corpus has been entertained, although a writ of error could be prosecuted, but the general
rule and better practice, in the absence of special facts and cir
cumstances, is to require a prisoner who claims that the judgment of a state court violates his rights under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, to seek a review thereof by writ
of error instead of resorting to the writ of habeas corpus.
In the present case we agree with the court below that the
petitioner had open to him the remedy by writ of error from
this court for the correction of whatever injury may have
been done to him by the action of the state courts, and that
he should have been put to that remedy, rather than given the
remedy by writ of habeas corpus. The Circuit Court had
authority to exercise its discretion in the premises, and we do
not see that there was any improper exercise of that discretion, under the facts and circumstances.
Without passing, therefore, upon the merits of the question
as to the constitutionality of the provision of the code under
which the Supreme Court proceeded in disposing of the case,
when it was before it, or upon the question of the validity of
the judgments rendered by the state courts in the case, we
are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the order of the
Circuit Court refusing the application for the writ of habeas
Affirmed.
corpus was correct, and it is accordingly

