OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

RICHMOND AND DANVILLE RAILROAD
COMPANY v. ELLIOTT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 199. Argued April 5, 6, 1893. - Decided May 1, 1893.
On the trial of an action by a coupler and switchman of a railroad company,
whose wages were $1.50 per day, against another company, to recover
for injuries received while in the discharge of his duties from the
explosion of the boiler of a locomotive, he was asked, as a witness, what
were his prospects of advancement in the service of the company, and
answered that he thought by staying he would be promoted, that he had
been several times, in the absence of the yard-master, called upon to
discharge his duties; that there was a " system by which you go in there
as coupler or train-hand, or in the yard, and if a man falls out you stand
a chance of taking his place;" and that the average yard-conductor
obtained a salary of from $60 to $75 a month. Held, that there was
error in admitting this testimony.
If a railway company, in purchasing a locomotive from a manufacturer
of recognized standing makes such reasonable examination of it as is
possible without tearing the machinery in pieces, and subjects it fully to
all the ordinary tests which are applied for determining the efficiency
and strength of completed engines, and such examination and tests
disclose no defect, it cannot, in an action by a stranger, be adjudged
guilty of negligence on account of a latent defect which subsequently
caused injury to such party.

ON February 8, 1887, defendant in error commenced this

action in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, to
recover damages for personal injuries. The case was removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Georgia, in which court a trial was had on the 2d
of November, 1888, and a verdict returned in favor of the
plaintiff for $10,000. Judgment having been entered thereon,
defendant sued out a writ of error from this court.
The facts were these. The plaintiff was an employe of the
Central Railroad and Banking Company, which company had,
under an arrangement with the defendant, the right to use its

RICHIMOND & DANYILLE RAILROAD v. ELLIOTT. 267
Opinion of the Court.

yard in Atlanta, Georgia, for switching purposes and in the
making up of trains. He was one of the crew of a switch
engine belonging to the Central Company; and on the night
of November 25, 1886, while in the discharge of his duties in
the yard, engine No. 515, belonging to the defendant, exploded
its boiler, and a piece of the dome thereof struck him on the
leg and injured him so that amputation became necessary
The explosion of this boiler was charged to be owing to negligence on the part of the defendant, in this respect, "that
more steam was allowed to generate than the engine had
capacity to contain," that the boiler was defective, and that
the defendant had notice of the defect.
.Mr _Eenry Jackson for plaintiff in error. MYt T J -Leftwch was with him on the brief.
.

. T Ladsom for defendant in error.

Ai. JuSTIcE BRFw.ER delivered the opinion of the court.
A_
The first question to which our attention is directed arises
on the admission of testimony in respect to the probability of
,plaintiff's promotion in the service of his employer, and a
consequent increase of wages. It appears that he was working in the capacity of coupler and switchman for the Central
Company, and had been so working for between four and five
years, that he was 27 years of age, in good health, and
receiving $1.50 per day He was asked this question "What
were your prospects of advancement, if any, in your employment on the railroad and of obtaining higher wages2" In
response to that, and subsequent questions, he stated that
he thought that by staying with the company he would be
promoted, that in the absence of the yard-master he had
sometimes discharged his duties, and also in like manner
temporarily filled the place of other employes of the company
of a higher grade of service than his own, that there was a
CC
system by which you go in there as coupler or train-hand or
in the yard, and if a man falls out you stand a chance of

OCTOBER TERMW, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

taking his place," and that the average yard-conductor
obtained a salary of from sixty to seventy-five dollars a
month.
We think there was error in the admission of this testimony
It did not appear that there was any rule on the part of the
Central Company for an increase of salary after a certain
length of time, or that promotion should follow whenever a
vacancy occurred in a higher grade of service. The most
that was claimed was that when a vacancy took place a subordinate who had been faithful in his employment, and had
served a long while, had a chance of receiving preferment.
But that is altogether too problematical and uncertain to be
presented to a jury in connection with proof of the wages
paid to those in such superior employment. Promotion was
purely a matter of speculation, depending not simply upon
the occurrence of a vacancy, but upon the judgment or even
whim of those in control. Of course, there are possibilities
and probabilities before every person, particularly a young
man, and a jury in estimating the damages sustained will
doubtless always give weight to those general probabilities, as
well as to those springing from any peculiar capacities or
faculties. But that is a different matter from proving to the
jury the wages which some superior officer receives, and then
exaggerating in the minds of the jury the amount of the
damage which has been sustained, by evidence tending to show
that there isa chance of plaintiff being promoted at some time
to such higher office. It is enough to prove what the plaintiff
has been in fact deprived of, to show his physical health and
strength before the injury, his condition since, the business he
was doing, Wade v leroy, 20 How 34, Nebraska City v
Campbell, 2 Black, 590, 7ieksburg & -Meridian Railroad v
Putnam, 118 U. S. 545, 554, the wages he was receiving, and
perhaps the increase which he would receive by any fixed rule
of promotion. Beyond that, it is not right to go and introduce
testimony which simply opens the door to a speculation of
possibilities. Nor was the error in the admission of this testimony cured by the instructions. On the contrary, they seem
to emphasize that this chance of promotion was a matter to be

RICHMOND & DANVILLE RAILROAD v. ELLIOTT. 269
Opinion of the Court.

considered. This is what the court said "I permitted some
evidence to be introduced on the subject of the line of promotion in the business in which he was engaged. The plaintiff
says, and the jury could consider the fact, that be bad a probability of promotion in the line of services in which he was
engaged, that the salary of the next grade of services in
which he was engaged is from sixty to seventy-five dollars per
month, the jury can consider that in finding what his financial or pecuniary loss is. I have permitted the evidence to go
to the jury, and I will state to you that the jury ought not to

be governed by a mere conjecture or possibility in a matter
of that sort, it ought to be shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the jury that the man after a while would earn more
money than he was then earning, it ought to be shown to
your reasonable satisfaction, it is a matter for you to determine. The evidence has gone to you, and if you believe, if it
has been shown to your reasonable satisfaction, that this man
would earn more money at some future period, you would be
authorized to consider that fact." Obviously, this directs
their attention to this matter, and invites them to consider it
in determining the damages which the plaintiff has sustained.
While it does say that the jury should not be governed by any
mere conjecture or possibility, yet it speaks of the matter as
though there was placed before them a probability of promotion which they ought to consider. That probability was
only such as was disclosed by the testimony we have referred
to. Such an uncertainty cannot be made the basis of a legal
claim for damages. The Code of Georgia of 1882, in section
3072, declares "If the damages are only the imaginary or
possible result of the tortious act, or other and contingent
circumstances preponderate largely in causing the injurious
effect, such damages are too remote to be the basis of recovery
against the wrongdoer." Such declaration is only an affirmation of the general law in respect thereto.
A case very much in point was before the Supreme Court of
Georgia. _wAmond & Danville Railroad v Allison, 86
Georgia, 145, 152. In that case the plaintiff (the action being
one for personal injuries) was a postal clerk in the railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

mail service of the United States, and on the trial the
assistant superintendent of the railway mail service, under
whom the plaintiff was employed, was permitted to give testinony as to the chances of promotion. This was adjudged
error. The court thus discussed the matter "We think this
evidence shows that Allison's promotion was too uncertain,
and the possibility of an increase of his salary from $1150 to
$1300 too remote to go to the jury, and for them to base a
verdict thereon. While it is proper m cases of this kind to
prove the age, habits, health, occupation, expectation of life,
ability to labor, and probable increase or diminution of that
ability with lapse of time, the rate of wages, etc., and then
leave it to the jury to assess the damages, we think it improper
to allow proof of a particular possibility, or even probability,
of an increase of wages by appointment to a higher public
office, especially where, as in this case, the appointment is
somewhat controlled by political reasons. The deputy clerk
of this court, for example, is very efficient and faithful, and if
there should be a vacancy in the office of clerk of the court, it
is not only possible, but very probable, that he would be
appointed to fill the vacancy, thereby obtaining a much larger
salary than he now receives, but if he should be injured as
Allison was, and were to sue the railroad company for
damages, we do not think it would be competent for him to
prove the possibility or probability of his appointment to fill
a vacancy in the office of clerk, especially as thepersonnel of
the court, upon which such appointment must depend, might
change in the meantime. To allow the jury to assess damages
in behalf of the plaintiff on the basis of a large income arising
from a public office which he has never received, which is
merely in expectancy and might never be received, or, if
received at all, might come to him at some remote and uncertain period, would be wrong and unjust to the defendant. We
believe the rule of most of the railroads in this State is to promote their employes. An emplove commences at the lowest
grade, and if he is competent, capable, and efficient he is very
likely to be promoted upon the happening of a vacancy above
him. If one occupying a lower grade of service were injured,

RIOHMOND & DANVILLE IRAILROAD v. ELLIOTT.

271

Opinion of the Court.

would he be allowed to prove, unless he had a contract to that
effect, that his prospects of promotion to a higher grade and
better salary were good, and would the jury be allowed to
base their calculation and -estimate of the damages upon
a much larger salary which he never received, but merely had
a prospect of receiving 2 It will be observed that the testimony in this case shows that there were two others in the
same class with Allison, equally competent and efficient as he
was, and it is by no means certain that Allison would have
been preferred to each of them in case of vacancy, and promoted above them, so it could not be said that he was in
direct line of promotion." And this decision is in harmony
with the general course of rulings. Brown v. Cnvmngs, 7
Allen, 507, Brown v Ch'cago, Book Island &e. Railway, 64
Iowa, 652, Chase v Burlington, Cedar Rapzds &c. Railroad,
76 Iowa, 675. For this error, which it may well be believed
worked substantial injury to the rights of the defendant, the
judgment will have to be reversed.
Another matter is this The injury was caused by the
explosion of the boiler of an engine, and it is insisted that the
testimony shows that the engine was handled properly and
carefully, that the defect in the iron casting of the domering, which, after the explosion, was found to have existed,
was a defect which could not with the exercise of reasonable
care have been discovered by the company, and that it took
all reasonable and proper care to test the boiler and engine,
ana irom sucn uess no ueiecu was discovered. Hence the contention is, that the court should have instructed the jury to
find a verdict for the defendant. Perhaps, in view of what
may be developed on a new trial, it is not well to comment on
the testimony in respect to these matters. Whether there was
negligence in respect to the accumulation of steam is a question of fact, involving, first, the capacity of the boiler, the
amount of steam which had accumulated, and the precautions
which were taken to prevent its going above a certain
pressure. With regard to the defect in the iron casting,
which seems to have been revealed by the explosion, it may
be said that it is not necessarily the duty of a purchaser of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

machinery, whether simple or complicated, to tear it to pieces
to see if there be not some latent defect. If he purchases
from a manufacturer of recognized standing, he is justified n
assuming that in the manufacture proper care was taken, and
that proper tests were made of the different parts of the
machinery, and that as delivered to him it is in a fair and
reasonable condition for use. We do not mean to say that it
is never the duty of a purchaser to make tests or examinations
of his own, or that he can always and wholly rely upon the
assumption that the manufacturer has fully and sufficiently
tested. It may be, and doubtless often is, his duty when placing the machine in actual use to subject it to ordinary tests
for determining its strength and efficiency Applying these
rules, if the railroad company after purchasing this engine
made such reasonable examination as was possible without
tearing the machinery to pieces, and subjected it fully to all
the ordinary tests which are applied for determining the
efficiency and strength of completed engines, and such examination and tests had disclosed no defect, it cannot in an action
by one who is a stranger to the company be adjudged guilty
of negligence because there was a latent defect, one which
subsequently caused the destruction of the engine and injury
to such party We do not think it necessary or proper to go
into a full discussion of the facts, but content ourselves with
stating simply the general rules of law applicable thereto.
For the error first above noticed, the judgment will be
Rieversed andZ the case 'remandedwith tnstructzons to grant a
new trtal.

