PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Syllabus.

decisions would hold a corporation responsible for all negligent acts of its agents, subordinate to itself, when exercising
authority and supervision over other employes. The latter
course of decisions seems to me most in accordance with
justice and humanity to the servants of a corporation.
I regret that the tendency of the decision of the majority of
the court in this case is in favor of the largest exemptions of
corporations from liability The principle in the Ross case
covers this case, and requires, in my opinion, a judgment of
affirmance.
MRiR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER dissenting.

I dissent because, in my judgment, this case comes within
the rule laid down in Chwago, -lilwaukee &c. Railway v
_Ross, 112 U. S. 377, and the decision unreasonably enlarges
the exemption of the master from liability for injury to one
of his servants by the fault of another.

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MSSOURI.
No. 157. Argued Marcb 22, 23, 1893. -Decided

April 24, 1893.

B., an attorney at law, residing at St. Louis, went to Leadville, Colorado, on
business of P. While there he obtained knowledge of a mineral tract,
and after communicating with P., he acquired a part ownership in it on
behalf of P. and himself. P came to Colorado and took charge of the
development of the property by sinking a shaft, the proportionate part
of the expense of which was to be borne by B., who then returned to his
business. Subsequently a correspondence by mail and by telegraph took
place between P. and B., which ended in the acquisition of B.'s interest
by P. The property became very valuable. When B. learned this he
filed a bill in equity to set aside his conveyance to P., as having been
fraudulently obtained, and for an accounting, and for the payment of his
share of the profits to him by P. On the correspondence and other facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
in evidence, as recited and referred to in the opinion of the court, Held,
that the evidence showed that the parties had made a complete settlement
of their rights under the contract, and that B. had parted with all his
interest in the property, and the bill must be dismissed.
When an offer is made and accepted, by the posting of a letter of acceptance
before notice of withdrawal is received, the contract is not impaired by
the fact that a revocation had been mailed before the letter of acceptance.

THIS was a bill in equity originally filed by Bowman in the
Circuit Court of St. Louis, and subsequently removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States, against William F Patrick
and James A. Patrick, to rescind a sale made October 19,
1882, by Bowman to William F Patrick, his then partner, of
a 5 interest in the Col. Sellers and Accident mines at Leadville, Colorado, and for an account of profits received by
Patrick from that interest. The theory of the bill was that
Patrick had concealed from the plaintiff the discovery of ore
in one of these mines in the summer of 1882, and thereby
induced him to part with his interest at much less than its
value.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows In February, 1882, Bowman, then a resident of St. Louis, Missouri,
and temporarily in Leadville on legal business, as attorney of
William F Patrick, was introduced by one William H. Wilson,
a mining promoter, to one Stebbins, who with others owned
two adjacent mining claims in Leadville known as the Col.
Sellers and Accident claims, upon which no shaft had then
been sunk to mineral, and it was then unknown whether the
property had any value. The owners were looking for some
one who would sink a shaft for a share in the property Bowman, at Stebbins' request, visited the property, was pleased
with it and its surroundings, and soon afterwards asked Patrick to join him in sinking the shaft. The result was that on
February 17, 1882, an agreement was entered into between
Stebbins and the other owners of the mine upon one part, and
Bowman and Patrick upon the other, by which the latter undertook, in consideration of an .undivided one-half of the property,
a deed of which was deposited in escrow, to sink a shaft on
the property to limestone in place or bed rock, if pay mineral

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Names of Counsel.

should not be sooner found, and to obtain patents from-the
United States to said property, and further agreed to commence work in sinking the shaft within thirty days from the
date of the contract. It seems the mineral in that district lies
in nearly horizontal bodies, at the contact between porphyry
and limestone, the porphyry being the overlying rock and of
varying thickness. The shaft was to be sunk through the
surface earth and gravel known as "wash" and the porphyry
The indications are generally apparent in the shaft, if there
be an ore body below and it be near, the porphyry becoming
iron stained, and sometimes small seams or stringers of mineral are found in the porphyry leading to the mineral body
below

Bowman and Patrick were, between themselves, to be equal
partners in the venture, each paying half of the expenses.
Patrick, living at Leadville, was to superintend the sinking of
the shaft, and keep Bowman advised of all that should happen
in the partnership venture. In March, 1882, and for some
time afterwards, Patrick was indebted to Bowman for money
advanced by him on account of certain legal business then in
his charge. Bowman returned to St. Louis and did not meet
Patrick again until June 19th, when they had a settlement, at
which Bowman exhibited a willingness to sell out his interest
to Patrick. A correspondence, both by letter and telegram,
began soon after that date, which is fully set forth in the
opinion of the court, and which resulted in a deed by Bowman
of his entire interest in the property
Upon the hearing in the Circuit Court upon pleadings and
proofs, a decree was entered setting aside the sale, and
adjudging that William F Patrick refund the sum of
$57,099.69, the amount of profits received by him on Bowman's interest to March 19, 1889, the date of the final
decree. 36 Fed. Rep. 138. From that decree Patrick
appealed to this court.
.Hr Cha'les C.Parsonsfor appellant.

Mr' .E. Vf-Ginnss for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

IMli. JusTricn BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the question whether the correspondence between these parties subsequent to the execution of
the contract of February 17, 1882, and the conduct of
Bowman in that connection indicated a completed understanding between them, prior to the discovery of ore in paying
quantities, that Patrick was to purchase Bowman's interest.
The theory of the plaintiff in this connection is that Patrick,
being present on the spot, and having the sole charge and
management of the sinking of the shaft, was bound to keep
the plaintiff advised of the progress of the work and the prospects of the mine, pending the negotiations for the purchase
of his interest, and that, having failed to apprise him of the
discovery of a large body of ore on the 31st of August, the
sale subsequently made was fraudulently procured and should
be annulled. The defendants do not dispute the legal principle laid down by this court in Brooks v .Martvn, 2 Wall. 70,
that where one partner is present in sole charge of the business,
while the other is at a distance, in order to sustain a sale of
the absent partner's interest it must be made to appear that
the price paid approximates a fair consideration for the thing
purchased, and that all the information in the possession of
the purchaser necessary to enable the seller to form a sound
judgment of the value of what he sells should be communicated by the buyer to him. Defendants, however, claim,
that the parties bad reached an understanding as to the terms
and conditions of the sale before the discovery of the ore, and
that William F Patrick was under no obligation to apprise
plaintiff of this fact, that even if the plaintiff had a right to
rescind the sale, he did not act with sufficient promptness, and
that his failure for four years to institute these proceedings
should debar him from a recovery
The nature of the defence in this case requires a statement
somewhat in detail of the succession of events following the
contract of February 17, 1882, and of the correspondence
between the parties. Bowman seems to have left Leadville

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

the day following the execution of the contract with the
understanding that Patrick should remain there, and superintend the opening of the shaft -in short, tjaat he should be
the resident partner of the enterprise. He and Bowman were
each to contribute one-half, and to have an equal interest in
the venture. On March 25th, Bowman sold to James- Mvi.
Patrick, brother of the defendant, William F., one-third of his
half interest, in consideration of Patrick paying one-third of
Bowman's share of the cost of sinking the shaft, Bowman
agreeing to make all necessary advances for the first year, and
Patrick agreeing to repay him the sums so advanced. Bowman did not return to Denver until early in May, having in
the meantime received several letters from William F Patrick,
giving a general idea of the progress of the work, and of
certain litigation connected with the property
At this time, Wilson claimed that he had introduced Bowman to Stebbins, and had been instrumental in procuring for
Bowman the contract for an interest in the property, and
that in fairness Bowman should let him have a share in this
contract. Bowman assented to this, and assigned to Wilson
a one-fourth interest. At this visit, too, a settlement seems to
have been had in which it was agreed that Bowman would
owe Patrick $288.70, if Wilson paid his assessment, and $465
if he did not. And, as Patrick says, "the understanding
between Mr. Bowman and myself was that I was to draw for
either $465 or $288.70." Wilson's time to pay would expire
May 18th. On May 13th, Patrick drew on Bowman for
$465. This draft was presented for payment on May 15th,
when Bowman telegraphed to Patrick "]Must know Wilson's
conclusion. Rebates not satisfactory
Answer at once,5
and on the same day wrote to Patrick as follows "Wilson
made a claim
for an interest in the Col. Sellers and
Accident. I yielded to his request.
He named the
interest and promised his share of the money You were to
collect of him, or forfeit his claim for non-payment. Your
brother's interest I agreed to carry, and am willing to, but
now you draw on me without collecting of Wilson or securing
his relinquishment. This much I expected you to do. I have

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

telegraphed you, but can get no answer. I leave in an hour
for Chicago."
The parties did not meet again until June 19th, when Patrick
went to St. Louis to talk over the Col. Sellers matters, and
at this interview they had a settlement of their accounts up
to May 8th, in which a balance of $288.69 was found due from
Bowman, for which he gave his note to Patrick, who had it
discounted at once for its face. Of this 8288.69, the sum of
$245.75 was for James Patrick's share of the expenses, which
Bowman was to advance for him, and for which amount
James soon afterwards gave his note to Bowman.
In the meantime, and on May 11, Wilson bad assigned his
interest to John Livezey These assignments to James Patrick
and Wilson left Bowman the owner of ten forty-eighths of
the contract, or five forty-eighths of the entire property,
which was the interest he subsequently conveyed to William
F Patrick. Up to the time of this interview of June 19th,
nothing, apparently, had been said with reference to a sale.
But at the time of this settlement, it seems that Bowman,
who appeared despondent, suggested to Patrick that he
thought he only ought to do a little work every ten days as
specified in the contract, to prevent its becoming forfeited,
and that that would keep it alive. Patrick says. "He made
me a proposition at that time, as I remember, after I secured
this note, if I would surrender the note he would surrender
all his right, title and interest under that contract to me, and
I told him at the time that I had about all that I could carry,
and I didn't think I could afford to take it, but thought I
knew a man out West who I thought would take it, and that
on my return I would speak to him in regard to it."
At this interview Bowman told him that he was going to
leave in a few days for Bayfield, Wisconsin, and gave him
that as his post-office address during the summer. Patrick
started back for Leadville that evening, and on arriving at
Denver wrote Bowman at St. Louis, under date of June 22d,
as follows "In regard to your interest in the Col. Sellers, I
think I know a man who will pay the note you gave me,
$288.69, and take your interest off your hands and let me go

PATRIIK v. BOWMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

right ahead with the work, which I would very much like to
do. If you are willing to let it go on these terms, which is the
same proposition you made me in your office, please telegraph
me immediately and I will try and make the arrangement."
On June 27th he wrote another letter in the following terms
"I would also like to have an answer with regard to the
proposition I made you about the Col. Sellers, to return you
your note and forfeit your share in the contract. There is a
party here who will take it." On the following day, June 28th,
he wrote still another letter to this effect "Please let me
know what we are to do in this new complication, and also
about the Col. Sellers, as I am anxious to continue work on
that property and see what is there." These letters were all
addressed to St. Louis, and were forwarded to Bayfield, Wisconsin, and as Bowman was then in the woods, he did not
receive either of them until the 13th of July, when he received
the one of June 22d, and at once telegraphed to Patrick
"Yours of June 22 received yesterday, proposition accepted,
send note." To this Patrick replied, under date of July 15th,
by telegraph. "Acceptance too late. Proposition was dependent upon immediate acceptance in St. Louis. See my letter
of fifth." Bowman must have gone to St. Paul on this or
the following day, since on July 16th he wrote Patrick the
following letter "When I came out of the woods I found
your letter of June 22d waiting my answer, and I telegraphed
you on the same day, accepting your proposition to surrender
to you all my remaining interest in the property adjoining the
A. Y on your surrendering my note, and on a perusal of
your subsequent letters received here at St. Paul to-day I
learn that is your wish, I do not complain of it. My judgment differs from yours as to the course to pursue, and I
should not stand in your way, and will not, if you wish any
papers signed, send and I will sign them. My address is
Bayfield, Wis."
Before Bowman received Patrick's letters, and telegraphed
his reply, Patrick claims that he wrote the following letter to
Bowman on July 5th, addressed not to St. Louis or to Bayfield,
but to St. Paul
VOL. cx~ux-27

OCTOBER TERM,,

1892.

Opnion of the Court.

"LrADVILLE, July 5, 1882.
"Mr. Frank J Bowman, Merchants' Hotel, St. Paul, Minn.
"DE.m Sm I send you a statement of all amounts paid on
the Col. Sellers contract since our settlement from which you
will see that the ai't due from you thereon is $952.32 for
which ain't I will draw on you to-morrow I wish to notify
you and hereby do so, that if the draft is not paid that I will
apply to Stebbins and Robinson and their partners for a new
contract in my own name. I have consulted an attorney here
and am satisfied that we are obliged to continue the work in
order to comply with our contract and that your plan of doing
a little work every ten days would not be acting according to
its letter or spirit and would cause a forfeiture of the contract
and loss of the ain't we have spent in sinking the first 100
feet. The same attorney also tells me that under our contract
if you do not pay your proportion when called upon you
forfeit your rights under said contract. I want to deal fairly
with you and will tell you that in my opinion the shaft which
is now 165 feet deep is looking very promising and I think we
are not very far from the contact. My reasons for thinking
so are that the porphyry is now heavily iron stained. Hope
you will pay the draft and that we may continue the work
together but if you do not I will have to protect myself and
will do so by taking a new contract as I have said.
"I withdraw my offer to return your note of $288.70 dated
June 19th 1882 in case you assign your interest in the contract
to me.
"Yours truly
W F PATRIcK."

On the following day Patrick drew upon Bowman for
$952.32, which included the amount of James Patrick's share
of the expenses and also part of certain expenses for repairing
the shaft. The draft was mailed to the bank in St. Paul, and
was returned to Patrick because Bowman was not at St. Paul.
We see no reason to doubt that this draft was drawn in good
faith, with the expectation that it would be presented to
Bowman, though, as Patrick says, he did not think it would
be paid, because of his conversation with Bowman at St. Louis

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

on June 19th, when he expressed himself as dissatisfied with
the way the work was going on. The letter of July 5th seems
never to have been received.
On August 2d, defendant wrote Bowman as follows, edently in reply to Bowman's letter of the 16th of July "Yours
of the 16th ult. received. In accordance with your request
therein, I send the within paper for your signature. I sold the
note in St. Louis before getting your reply, so will have to
wait until it matures, which will be September 19th." Enclosed in this letter was a memorandum of agreement, signed
by William F Patrick, reciting the contract of February 17th,
1882, the performance of considerable work in developing the
lode, the unwillingness of Bowman to continue such work or
to pay the costs, the execution of the note of June 19th,
1882, and providing that, Vf Patrick should pay the note
when it became due, Bowman would release to him all his
right, title, and interest to the contract with the owners of the
property, and would execute and deliver to Patrick a good
and sufficient deed of conveyance of the same, Patrick agreeing
to release Bowman from any liability under the contract.
In reply to this, and on August 28th, Bowman wrote to
Patrick from his camp on Brule River, Wisconsin, as follows
"I send you the contract you desire, and trust that this will
settle our matters pleasantly and amicably I have inserted a
clause concerning your brother's interest, but he may not care
to retain it. My address will be St. Paul, until September
10th, then I shall return to St. Louis and business. P.S.Mails are slow here."
With tins letter was a contract signed by Bowman, which
was a substantial copy of the one signed by Patrick, but contaming a reservation for the use of Patrick's brother. This
contract, however, made it obligatory upon Patrick to pay the
note, and gave him no option in that particular as was given
in the contract enclosed in his letter to Bowman.
Having signed this contract, Bowman enclosed it in his
letter of August 28th, and mailed it the same day to Patrick
at Leadville, where it arrived after Patrick had left. It was
forwarded to him at Knoxville, Tennessee, where he received

OCTOBER TERIMI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

it on September 7th. He made no reply, however, and there
was no further correspondence between the parties.
On October 19, 1882, Bowman having returned to St.
Louis, James Patrick went to Bowman's office, and said he
had called by request of his brother, to get him to execute a.
deed to his brother for his interest in the Col. Sellers. The
Patricks testify that they were both present in Bowman's
office, that they talked over the matter of Bowman's relations
to James with regard to an interest in the contract, and that
W F Patrick then agreed to take a conveyance of Bowman's
entire interest, to assume Bowman's liability, and to advance
James' share of the expenses. This matter being settled,
Bowman acknowledged and delivered a deed of his interest
in the property There is a dispute between Bowman and
the Patricks as to whether the former made any inquiry of
them as to whether any mineral had been discovered in the
Col. Sellers shaft. It is clear they never mentioned the matter
to him, and there is no doubt Patrick failed to inform Bowman of the discovery of a large body of ore that had been
made in the last days of August. If, at that time, there was
a completed understanding between them that Patrick was to
buy out Bowman's interest and release him from his liability
upon the note, there was no obligation to make such disclosure.
If, upon the other hand, no such understanding had been
reached, it was then incumbent upon Patrick to inform Bowman of the progress of the work before taking from him the
deed of October 19th.
We think this question must be answered by referring to
the correspondence between these parties, between June 19th
and August 13th, upon which day the first indication of mineral was discovered in the shaft, the policy of suppressing all
information was inaugurated.
The letter of June 22d must be read in connection with the
conversation at St. Louis on June 19th, in which Bowman
offered Patrick all his interest in the enterprise, if Patrick
would return the note Bowman had just given him. Patrick
replied that he had already as much as he could carry, but
upon his return to the West he would speak to a man whom

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

he thought might take the offer. Accordingly, in his letter
of June 22d, he does not offer to buy Bowman's interest
himself, but says: "I think I know a man who will pay the
note you gave me, $288.69, and take your interest off your
hands.
If you are willing to let it go on these terms,
which is the same proposition you made me in your office,
please telegraph me immediately, and I will try and make the
arrangement." Now, while it is true this is not upon its face
a proposition to buy Bowman's interest himself, but a mere
promise to try and make an arrangement with another party,
and a call upon Bowman to let him know whether such a
proposition would be accepted if made, in reality we think it
should be considered as a proposition made by Patrick himself,
for the following reasons:
The man he had in mind was Col. Bissell of Leadville,
whom he had not yet seen, and whom he had no good reason
to believe would take the property It was a mere conjecture
on his part. Before he wrote his next letter, he went on to
Leadville, saw Col. Bissell, and "spoke to him in regard to
it, and he declined to take it, and declined to take the interest
and pay that note, and, as I told Bowman, I was carrying all
I could." Notwithstanding this, in his letter of June 27th, be
says "I would also like to have an answer n regard to the
yropostzton I made you about the Col. Sellers, to return you
your note and forfet your share in the contract. There so a
party here who will take it." And again on the 28th. "Please
let me know what we are to do
about the Col.
Sellers, as I am anxious to continue work on that property
and see what is there." Now, it does not clearly appear
whether he had seen Col. Bissell or not when he wrote these
two letters, but in either case the letters were untrue, though
they may have been written in good faith, and with the
expectation that Col. Bissell would eventually take the interest, but there was no party there who had given him any
assurance that he would. Patrick was thereby placed in the
position of holding himself out not only as the agent of an
unknown principal, but of one whom he had no authority to
represent. In such case his contract, though of course not

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

binding upon any one else, is binding upon the agent, at least
if the credit be given to such agent. Telch v Goodwzn, 123
Mass. 71, Worthlngton v Cowles, 112 Mass. 30, Cobb v
Ifnapp, 71 N Y 348, Blakely v Bennecke, 59 Missouri, 193,
Eichbaum v Irons, 6 W & S. 67, M-eech v Smzth, 7 Wend.
315, Minsor v Grzggs, 5 Cush. 210, Mechem on Agency,
secs. 542, 550, 557.
In this case there is abundant evidence that the proposition
contained in the three letters of June 22d, 27th, and 28th was
treated by both parties as the proposition of Patrick himself.
In his attempted retraction of July 5th, Patrick says " I
oithdraw my offer to return your note for $288.70, dated
June 19, 1882, in case you assign your interest in the contract to me." And in his letter of July 16th, Bowman
says "When I came out of the woods I found your letter
of June 22d, waiting my answer, and I telegraphed you
on the same day accepting your proyostom to surrender to
you all my remaining interest in the property adjoining the
A. Y on your surrendering my note." Of this letter Patrick
says "I decmded to accept the proposition contained in the
letter, and instead of applying to the owners for a new contract
I decided to accept the proposition which was
contained in Bowman's letter of July 16th. I had a contract
prepared such as he indicated he would sign in that letter,
and I sent that contract to him by mail after signing
it myself." In his letter of August 2d, which was written
before the discovery of ore, Patrick enclosed a contract for
Bowman to sign, in which his own name is mentioned as
grantee, and Bowman in his letter of August 28th also enclosed a draft of his own, in which also Patrick is named as
grantee. So, too, in his letter of September 2d, Patrick says
"I sent you from Leadville an agreement concerning the Col.
Sellers, in which I agreed to pay that note, $288.70, and you
relinquish all rights under the agreement." The matter was
finally consummated on October 19th, by a deed direct from
Bowman to Patrick of his interest in the mine. Indeed, there
is not a word of testimony, except as gathered from the three
letters written in June, that the proposition was other than

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Opimon of the Court.

that of Patrick himself. For these reasons we think the offer
should be considered as one made by Patrick to take Bowman's interest in the mine, and release him from his liability
upon the note.
The letter of June 22d, which was addressed to Bowman at
St. Louis, was forwarded to Bayfield, Wis., and reached him
in the woods at a distance from a telegraph office.. He proceeded at once to Ashland, Wis., the nearest telegraph station,
and on July 13th telegraphed Patrick as follows "Yours of
June 22d received yesterday, proposition accepted, send
note." To this Patrick replied by telegraph, sent both to St.
Louis and Ashland, as follows: "Acceptance too late. Proposition was dependent upon immediate acceptance in St.
Louis. See my letter of the 5th." In view of the fact that
Patrick was informed when in St. Louis, June 19th, that
Bowman was about starting for the woods for the summer,
and that his letters of June 22d, 27th, and 28th were sent to
St. Louis, where he must have known that Bowman had gone,
we do not think the acceptance was too late, although it
might have been otherwise had the circumstances been such
that a prompt reply must have been expected. After having
sent this telegram, and before receiving the reply, Bowman
left Ashland, and went to St. Paul, where he received the
letters of June 27th and 28th, and answered them by his
letter of July 16th, renewmng h-s acceptance o
positon
lie had already made by telegram. The tone of this letter
certainly indicates that he had not received Patrick's telegram
of July 15th when he wrote it. Indeed, it is improbable that
he should have done so, as one copy of that telegram was sent
to St. Louis and another to Ashland, after Bowman had left
there.
These letters and telegrams, taken together, indicate a
complete understanding between these parties that Bowman
should sell out his interest in the mine to Patrick on condition
that the latter released him from liability upon the note.
It is true the letter of June 22d contained no definite proposition, but a mere offer by Patrick to see if he could find a purchaser, and hence Bowman's telegram of July 13th might not

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

be construed as binding Patrick to anything, yet the letter of
June 27th did contain, or at least recognize a proposition as
coming from Patrick himself, and Bowman's answer thereto
of July 16th, construed in connection with his telegram, was
a distinct acceptance of such proposition. Nor is this understanding affected by Patrick's attempted revocation of the
offer in his letter of July 5th. Bowman denies that he ever
received this letter, and as there is no direct evidence that he
did, his denial must be accepted as conclusive. Under such
circumstances the revocation is of no avail to release either
party from the obligations of his contract. The authorities
are abundant to the proposition that when an offer is made
and accepted by the posting of a letter of acceptance, before
notice of withdrawal is received, the contract is not impaired
by the fact that a revocation had been mailed before the letter
of acceptance. Thus, in the case of Tayloe v -Merchants'Fire
Insurance Co., 9 How 390, in which the point decided was that
a contract by correspondence was completed when the party
to whom the promise was made placed a letter in the postoffice accepting the terms, Mr. Justice Nelson, in delivering
the opinion of the court, said (p. 400) "We are of opinion
that an offer under the circumstances stated, prescribing the
terms of insurance, is intended, and is to be deemed a valid
undertaking on the part of the company, that they will be
bound according to the terms tendered, if an answer is transmitted in due course of mail, accepting them, and that it
cannot be withdrawn unless the withdrawal reaches the party
to whom it is addressed before his letter of reply announcing
the acceptance has been transmitted." This case was cited
and followed in Byrne v Van Tienhoven, 5 0. P D 344, and
Stephenson v lcLean, 5 Q. B. D. 346. Other cases to the
same effect are Adams v Lindsell, 1 B. & Ald. 681, -Dunlop
v Higg-bns, 1 HI. L. Gas. 381, Harrts' case, L. R. 7 Oh. 587,
The Palo Alto, 2 Ware, 343, Wheat v Cross, 31 Maryland,
99.
There is, indeed, in a case of this kind some reason for
urging that the party making the revocation should be
estopped to claim that his attempted withdrawal was not

PATRIOK

"v.

BOWMAIN.

Opinion of the Court.

binding upon himself, but this could not be done without
infringing upon the inexorable rule that one party to a contract cannot be bound unless the other be also, notwithstanding that the principle of mutuality thus applied may enable a
party to take advantage of the invalidity of his own act.
It is quite evident that Bowman himself regarded this as ,
a settlement of his rights under his contract with Patrick,
leaving only the details to be arranged between them. His
conduct from this time indicates a clear intention on his part
to abandon any further interest in the property It is evident
that he intended to make no further claim upon Patrick, and
it is equally clear that Patrick could have sustained no further
action against him for the expenses of sinking the shaft.
Indeed, the testimony leaves it doubtful whether Bowman
ever contributed anything more than a nominal amount of
money to the enterprise. At the interview in St. Louis on
June 19th there seems to have been a settlement had by him
up to May 8th, in which Patrick claimed of him $552.93,
three-eighths of the expenses up to May 8th, which was
reduced to $288.69, by a credit of some $264.21, claimed by
Bowman against Patrick, for which amount, less $264.24, he
gave his note. He seems neither to have paid nor settled for
any portion of the money expended by Patrick since May 8th,
($603.-75,) nor to have given any assurances that the additional
liabilities to be incurred would be met by him. He said that
he was "hard up ," could not settle the expenses incurred
since May 8th, asked Patrick to wait for him as a matter of
accommodation, and suggested that only a little work should
be done every ten days on the shaft - just enough to save a
forfeiture of their contract. He not only made no provision
for the payment of his note of June 19th, or of the further
expenses which he must have known would be required, but
apparently took no further interest in the sinking of the shaft,
and manifested in his letter of July 16th a willingness to sign
any papers Patrick might send him, and subsequently did
sign a release of his interest to Patrick. There is much
dispute between the parties as to whether Bowman made any
inquiries with regard to the progress of the work on October

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinon. Brewer, J., Puller, C. J.

19th, but itis scarcely presumable that he would have signed
the deed at that time, without instituting very careful inquiries
with regard to the work, unless he had treated the matter as
abandoned - since from the time that had elapsed he must
have known that it was either a success or a failure. In a
subsequent conversation with Wilson he said that his reason
for selling out to Patrick was that he was not able to carry
the assessments. He made substantially the same statement
to James Patrick, and added that, even if he had had money
enough, the constant fear of litigation and "jumpers" would
have caused him to sell out, and wished him to express
his congratulations to his brother upon the success of the
enterprise.
In short, he gave no further attention to the matter for
T four years, when, from some letters between members of the
defendant's family, which fell into his hands, he was apprised
of the fact that a large body of ore had been discovered about
the 31st of August, the knowledge of which Patrick had
concealed from him. Conceding that if the negotiations had
then been open, it would have been Patrick's duty to inform
his partner of all that had taken place, he was under no obligation to do so if the contract were complete. He might well
be reluctant to give him information which would only lead
to disputes and litigation.
In the view we have taken of this case, it becomes unnecessary to consider the conduct of Patrick after August 13th, in
suppressing the information with regard to the discovery of
the ore, or the question of laches which the defendant urges
with so much earnestness.
The decree of the court below will, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded with mstructsons to dismss
the bill.
MR. JUSTICE BlEWER, with whom concurred MR.CiIEF JusTICE FULLER, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the foregoing opinion. Accepting
the rule laid down in Brooks v X artin, 2 Wall. 70, as con-

PATRICK v. BOWMANT.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J., Fuller, C.3.

trolling, it is undisputed that no conveyance was made by
Bowman to Patrick until October 19, 1892. It is undisputed
that long before that Patrick knew of a large body of valuable
mineral in the shaft, and that he did not communicate the fact
of this discovery to Bowman. It is also not open to question
that the property then conveyed was worth very much more
than Bowman received. But it said that prior thereto there
was a completed understanding that Patrick was to purchase
Bowman's interest. What is meant by the term "completed
understanding" is doubtful. If by it is meant that a binding
contract had been entered intobefore October 19, I deny the
fact. If only that Patrick knew the terms upon which Bowman was willing to sell, I deny that the law is that knowledge
of such fact relieved Patrick from the obligation to make full
disclosure up to the time of the actual purchase. It may be
conceded that Bowman was willing to sell in consideration of
the surrender of his note, and Patrick knew of this willingness,
but can it be that knowledge by a resident partner that the
non-resident partner is willing to sell at a fixed price releases
huin from the obligation of full disclosure, enables him to continue his explorations to discover the value of the property,
and, when ore of large value is finally discovered, complete
the purchase without disclosing that fact 2 I do not so understand the law Until a definite contract has been entered into
between the parties, binding alike on vendor and purchaser,
and understood to be binding alike on both, the rule laid down
in Brooks v .Martincompels the resident partner to make full
disclosure. The question is not whether Bowman acted badly,
but whether Patrick fully discharged the duties resting upon
him as resident partner. If he says that before the purchase
was actually made there was a completed contract which
relieved him from his obligations of disclosure, must he not
make it clear that such completed contract was in fact made 2
It is true, Bowman was willing to sell during June and July,
providing he could get his note back, but this willingness to
sell was based upon the facts as they then existed, or at least
as known to him. The shaft had been sunk many feet, no
mineral had been discovered, no indications of mineral dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion

Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

closed. He might well have said, I am ready to,abandon this
if you will only give me back my note, but can it be that this
willingness to sell, communicated as it was to Patrick, will
sustain a purchase in the succeeding October, after mineral had
been discovered, the value of the property largely advanced,
and without any disclosure of those facts to Bowman?
As the transactions between Patrick and Bowman, intermediate June 19 and October 19, were all by letter or telegram,
there can be no dispute as to what took place. It appears
that Patrick wrote three letters after the interview of June
19 one June 22, another June 27, and a third June 28. The
first says this "In regard to your interest in the ' Col. Sellers,'
I think I know a man who will pay the note you gave me,
If
$288.69, and take your interest off your hands.
please
you are willing to let it go on these terms
telegraph me immediately, and I will try and make the
arrangement." This letter did not reach Bowman until the
13th of July, when he telegraphed, "Yours of June 22 received
yesterday, proposition accepted, send note." To which Patrick replied on July 15 "Acceptance too late, proposition
was dependent upon an immediate acceptance in St. Louis.
See my letter of 5th."
How out of this a contract can be deduced I do not understand. Patrick does not offer to purchase, does not say that
he knows any one who will purchase, but simply asks Bowman
if he is willing to sell at such a price, and promises, if so, to
try and find a purchaser. It was this letter only which Bow
man had received at the time of his telegram, and only the
proposition or suggestion contained in it which he by that
telegram accepted. It seems to me that it would puzzle a
pleader to so frame a declaration as to show that that letter
and acceptance created any contract between the parties.
Something is suggested as to an undisclosed principal, and
it is said that the agent is bound when the principal is not. I
do not appreciate the pertinency of that suggestion, for there
is in this letter no assertion of an undisclosed principal for
whom the agent makes the proposition. All that Patrick
says is that if Bowman will consent to sell upon the terms

PATRIIK v. BOWMAN.
Dissenting Opinon. Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

named he thinks he knows of some one who will buy, and will
try to make the arrangement. It is true that on June 27,
Patrick does say that there is a party who will take the property on those terms, and it may be said that here is an allegation of an undisclosed principal. But that letter had not then
been received by Bowman, and nothing in it was covered by
his acceptance of July 13. The acceptance specifically referred to the letter of June 22, which contained the only
proposition or suggestion which Bowman then knew Out of
that I can torture no binding contract -no "completed understanding." On the 15th, two days after this telegram from
Bowman, Patrick telegraphed "Acceptance too late, proposition was dependent upon an immediate acceptance in St.
Louis." In the face of this, can it be said that there was a
binding contract or a completed understanding? Did Patrick,
when he sent this telegram, understand that he had bought
Bowman's interest, or was bound by any contract of purchase?'
I do not understand the force of the English language if it can
fairly be said, in the face of such a telegram from the subsequent purchaser, that there was a completed understanding
between the parties in respect to the sale. Patrick's declaration that the acceptance was too late was justifiable if he had
been theretofore acting in good faith. His three letters in
June were all directed to Bowman at St. Louis, although he
knew that Bowman was going to spend the summer in Wisconsin, and had given his address, "Bayfield, Wisconsin."
Directing to St. Louis, and calling for a telegram immediately,
was a notification that that was not a continuing proposition,
but one which must be received and acted on immediately.
If it was not a proposition requiring haste he would naturally
have addressed these letters to Bayfield, Wisconsin, the address given by Bowman, and iu the vicinity of his summer
outing in the woods. Sending to St. Louis was because he
thought he" might possibly reach him before be left for the
summer, and thus have the question settled promptly, and so
when he telegraphed on the 15th of July he could properly
say "Acceptance too late, proposition was dependent upon
an immediate acceptance in St. Louis." It is unnecessary t&

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

refer to the letter which Patrick claims to have written on
July 5, as it is conceded that that letter was never received
by Bowman. It is significant only, as indicating Patrick's
state of mind, by these closing words "I withdraw my offer
to return your note of $288.70, dated June 19, 1882, in case you
assign your interest in the contract to me."
Reliance is placed on Bowman's letter, in which he used
the words "your proposition," but this it seems to me is
trivial. The proposition or suggestion was one which did
come in a letter from Patrick, and though Bowman does not
write out in detail the full description of that proposition, but
refers to it m the brief way he does, that cannot enlarge the
scope or change the character of the proposition as it was
sent in the letter by Patrick. That meant only that which it
said, and when Bowman telegraphed an acceptance of that
specific proposition, neither party was bound beyond the
terms expressed. That made no binding contract of sale, and
when Patrick, two days after Bowman's telegram, replied
that the acceptance was too late, there was nothing concluded
between the parties. That Patrick understood that there
was nothing binding is further evidenced by the fact that
before Bowman's telegram of July 13, and on July 5, he had
received advice from his counsel that Bowman's interest could
be obtained in another way, and without paying anything,
and so in attempting to carry out the plan suggested by
counsel he sent a letter to Bowman at the Merchants' Hotel
in St. Paul, and drew a draft upon him at St. Paul for his
supposed share of the expenses to date. To say that, while
he was trying to obtain possession of Bowman's interest by
proceedings of this character, there was a completed understanding between the parties for the purchase of that interest,
is something I cannot understand. Evidently Patrick did not
have the utmost reliance upon this plan suggested by his
counsel, and although that draft was returned unpaid, yet as
the indications of approaching mineral became clearer his
desire to purchase from Bowman became stronger, and he
concluded that the better way was to come back to the original proposition of purchase, and so, on August 2 he sent a

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

proposed contract. Still, as at the date at which that contract
was sent, it was not absolutely sure that mineral in paying
quantities would be found in the mine, the contract which he
sent to Bowman for his signature was simply a contract bindmg Bowman to sell, and not binding himself to buy Obously he was not then sure that he would purchase. He
wanted to get an option from Bowman, something that would
bind him to sell, and then sink the shaft a little further, and
make some more developments before he bound himself to
purchase. And yet it is said that before this there was a
completed understanding, a binding contract between these
parties for the purchase of Bowman's interest. Bowman,
knowing nothing of the disclosures made by the sinking of
the shaft, and not knowing that the indications of approachmg mineral were stronger and clearer, was still willing to
sell on the terms named, but was not willing to give an option
to buy, and so, on August 28, he prepared a contract binding
both parties, and enclosed it in a letter to Patrick at Leadville,
but before it had reached there Patrick had gone East.
Nothmg further took place until the day of the conveyance,
October 19.
It is suggested that Bowman evidently regarded the matter
as settled, leaving only the details to be arranged. It seems
to me the important question is not how Bowman, but how
Patrick, regarded it. Did he understand that the thing was
settled between them 2 Certainly not, when he telegraphed
that the acceptance was too late, certainly not, when he sent
a contract not for a purchase, but giving him an option to
purchase, binding Bowman and not himself.
And in this respect, Patrick's testimony as to his understanding of the matter is significant. On his direct examination he testified that the party he had in mind when he wrote
the letter of June 22 was his own attorney in Leadville, Col.
J B. Bissell. His testimony was in these words:
"It was Col. J B. Bissell, and when I came up to Leadville
I spoke to him in regard to it, and he declined to take it, and
declined to take the interest and pay that note, and, as I told
Bowman, I was carrying all I could, so between the 22d of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

June and that time I changed my mind, that is, between the
22d of June and July 5, in regard to it."
In reference to the advice given him by Col. Bissell, he
testified
"He said it was no use of paying that note or having anybody else buy it, when another assessment was due to draw
on Bowman, and if he does not pay your draft promptly just
apply to the owners of the Col. Sellers, that is, to Stebbins,
Robinson, and others, for a new contract in your own name,
leaving Bowman out, and when I wrote the letter of July 5
it was my intention to do that, and when I received Bowman's telegram of the 15th of July I so notified him in that
telegram."
Further on in his deposition appears the following, also on
direct examination
"Q. When was your partnership with the plaintiff in the
working of the Col. Sellers and Accident mining claims under
the contract, Defendant's Exhibit 'A,' terminated?
"A. It was terminated, as I regarded it, on the receipt of
the plaintiff's letter of July 16, and by my acceptance of the
proposition contained therein, and the forwarding of the contract which was prepared by 0. 0. Parsons."
And on cross-examination this appears
"Q. You recognized it to be your duty as a partner, when
you wrote a letter accepting what you call Bowman's proposition of July 16, 1882, to tell him what occurred before you
wrote that letter, didn't youq
"A. I did not regard him as my partner after I received
that letter of July 16, he had not paid.
"Q. Didn't you regard him as your partner up to the time
that you mailed an answer to that letter9
"A. Yes, but I accepted his proposition and I thought
that ended the partnership.
"Q. In your view when did your partnership with Bowman end, when you received his letter of July 16, 1882, or
when you mailed your answer to it 2
"A. Take the two together.
"Q. It can't be both. When did you conclude that Bow-

PATRICK v. BOWMAN.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

man was not your partner, and was not entitled to the
information 2
"A. When I accepted his proposition of July 16."
According, therefore, to his own testimony, Patrick understood that the partnership relation, with the obligations of
disclosure, continued until he had accepted the proposition in
Bowman's letter of the 16th of July When he mentally
accepted that proposition, he alone knows or can tell. What
lie did after that was, on the second day of August, to send to
Bowman, for signature, an agreement giving him an option
to purchase, which never was signed. The contract which
Bowman did prepare, a contract binding both parties, and
which Bowman signed and forwarded on August 28, was not
signed and forwarded until after mineral had been in fact
discovered, and was so signed and forwarded by Bowman in
ignorance of that fact.
Were not the discoveries in the mine such as should have
been disclosed? Let us see what there is in this record that
does not depend upon the recollections of witnesses. On July
5, Patrick writes to his brother, saying "The shaft in the
Col. Sellers is looking very promising; for several feet the
porphyry has been heavy iron-stamed, and I have good reasons
for thinking that we are near the contact. Acting on Col.
Bissell's advice, I to-day write to Bowman telling him that if
lie did not pay up I would apply to the owners of the ground
for a new contract in my own name, and leave hun out. I
don't suppose he will pay, but I will let you in on the new
one on the same terms you are in the old." On July 30 this
appeared in the Leadville Herald "The Col. Sellers shaft,
on Iron Hill, is now down about 215 feet. Some small streaks
of ore have already been cut, one of them assaying nineteen
ounces in silver. The sinking of the shaft is progressing
rapidly, with the prospects that expected ore bodies will soon
be cut." And Patrick was in Leadville at that time. On
August 10, in the same paper, appeared this statement "Late
Tuesday night [which would be August 8, 1882] ore, was
encountered in the shaft of the Col. Sellers on Iron Hill,
appearing first in one corner of the shaft. The ore is pyrites
VOL. axLIx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion

Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

in character, and is pronounced to be identical with that
which was first cut in the A. Y mine, which it adjoins. It
is probable that it will be necessary to pass through several
feet of it before the same class of ore which has enabled
the A. Y to make such shipments will be reached. The
property is owned by W F Patrick, Charles Stebbins, George
Simmons, John Livezey and others."
But we need not stop with this. On August 16 a contract
was signed by Patrick and the original owners of the mine, in
which it was recited that "a lode or vein is now by all
believed to have been struck," and which provided for the
delivery of the deed called for by the original contract, which
deed was, in fact, delivered on August 31. We need not
resort to the parol testimony, of which there is an abundance,
but may rest upon this written contract to prove that within
thirty-two days after Patrick had telegraphed that Bowman's
acceptance was too late a vein of mineral had been discovered
in this shaft, and that this discovery, known to Patrick, was
made two months and three days at least before the deed was
acquired from Bowman. Parol testimony tends to show that
the discovery was made at a much earlier date. Did Patrick
at this time understand that a purchase had been made 2 We
have seen that this correspondence with Bowman does not
show a binding contract, and we have noted his own version
of the matter, but there is still other testimony very significant. A letter from his wife to his brother, the brother
whose interest in the mine Bowman was carrying for a year,
was produced, which is as follows
"KNOXVILLE, -August 21, 1882.

"Dear Jemmie I have just received a letter from Will, in
which he tells me I was mistaken about his securing B.'s
interest in the Col. Sellers. He only had the written promise
of it. The deed has not been delivered to hun. In my letter
to-day he tells me to caution all of our home folk not to mention the succesg of the prospect, and adds IIf you have said
anything to home folk about the Col. S. caution them not to
mention it whatever they do, for if it should get to St. L. and

PATICK v. BOWVfAN.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

to B.'s ears, it might cause me considerable trouble and
expense to get him out of the contract. Please cautionthe
family not to mention it until I get a deed from B.'
"I am sorry I have said anything about it, but as I have
for pity's sake do not tell it, or if, like myself you have said
anything to Fanme or Ir. McM., do write immediately and
ask them to keep it secret, so much depends upon a rigid
silence. As Will said, if Mr. Bowman hears it, he can cause
him a great deal of trouble to say nothing of the expense. I
feel dreadfully and I shall never again put myself in this
position. I am going to the 'Quarry' early to-morrow to
caution mother and father. Do help me to keep this business
as quiet as possible. You see at a glance how much depends
upon it. My sister is not so well to-day, although she is
better than when I first came. With love, and an earnest
request that you will burn this as soon as received, I am,
hastily and truly,
"Aii=."
And a letter of date August 28, from this same brother,
James M. Patrick, to his wife, in which he says "Willie has
written to Anme (and she to me) telling her that there was
an interest in the Col. Sellers which he wished: to buy before
the news of the strike got out, and wanted her and I to keep
the matter quiet for a few weeks until he could get the deed."
These letters show that it was known in the family that
mineral had been discovered, and discovered long enough
before August 21 for two or three letters to have passed
between Knoxville and Leadville. Patrick had not, as shown
by these letters, secured Bowman's interest. He had, it is
true, received a letter from Bowman of July 16, m which the
latter expressed his willingness to sell, said that he would not
stand m his (Patrick's) way, and that if he (Patrick) wished
any papers signed, to send them to hin. In other words, he
knew that Bowman was willing to sell, and had so expressed
himself, he had not bought, and wanted the matter kept
secret until the purchase was consummated.
Taking these letters in connection with the correspondence
which passed between these parties and Patrick's own tes-

