TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ANDERSON.

237

Statement of the Case.

the claim, how the plaintiff came to -be so long ignorant of his
rights, the means, if any, used by the defendants fraudulently
to keep him in ignorance, or how and when he first obtained
knowledge of the matters alleged in his bill. Badger v
Badger, 2 Wall. 87, 95, ]?chards v .Aackall, 124 U S. 183,
189, Greene v Taylor, 132 U. S. 415, 443.
We think the present is a clear case in favor of the bar of
limitation, both by the statute of New York and by the
bankruptcy statute.
caafrmed.
Pecree

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
ANDERSON.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1312. Submitted April 17, 1893. -Decided May 1,1893.

A Circuit Court of Appeals cannot review by writ of error the judgment of
a Circuit Court of the United States, in execution of a mandate of this
court, when the action of the Circuit Court conforms to the mandate,
and there are no proceedings subsequent thereto, not settled by the terms
of the mandate itself.
The mandate in this case having stated that the receiver, against whom the
action was originally brought, had been discharged and had died, and
that the Railway Company had been made the party plaintiff in error,
and having ordered that the plaintiff recover against the Railway Company her costs expended herein and have execution therefor, further
ordered "that such execution and proceedings be had in said cause as
according to right and justice and the laws of the United States ought
to be had." Execution accordingly issued against the company for the
amount of the judgment with interest at the rate which obtained m
Texas when the judgment was rendered. Held, that this action conformed to the mandate, and was not subject to review by the Circuit
Court of Appeals.

ON September 13, 1888, judgment was rendered in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Texas against John 0. Brown and Lionel A. Sheldon as

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

receivers of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company in favor
of Ida May Cox for $10,000, with interest from date at eight
per cent per annum, the then rate of interest in Texas, "to be
paid in due course of their administration of their receivership."
Sheldon having resigned as receiver and his resignation having
been accepted, Brown, as sole receiver, prosecuted a writ of
error from this court and gave a supersedeas bond. While
the writ of error was pending the receiver made known to the
Circuit Court that the objects and purposes contemplated in
the several proceedings under which he had been appointed
had been accomplished by settlement and agreement of the
parties, and he was thereupon discharged as receiver and the
property restored to the company
Subsequently, and before
the case came on for hearing, the receiver died. Thereafter
defendant in error filed a motion in this court to have the
railroad company substituted in place of the receiver, and an
order of substitution was entered by this court upon suggestion
of the discharge and death of said receiver.
At the time of that order a stipulation, signed by counsel
on both sides, was filed, which read as follows "That the said
Texas and Pacific Railway Company may be substituted as
plaintiff in error in the above-entitled cause now pending and
undetermined upon writ of error in this court, such substitution,
however, not to affect any of the questions or controversies
presented by the record herein, and the questions and controversies presented by the record are to stand for the decision of
this court the same as if said substitution bad not been made."
The cause having been argued the judgment was affirmed
May 16, 1892. Texas & Pacqfic Railway v Cox, 145 U S.
593, 601.
On May 19, 1892, the mandate of this court was issued,
directed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas, which, after reciting the judgment
of that court against the receivers and the writ of error prosecuted by the remaining receiver, proceeded thus
"And whereas at the October term, A. D. 1889, of said
Supreme Court, the discharge of John C. Brown as receiver
of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, and also his death,

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ANDERSON.

239

Statement of the Case.
having been suggested, it was ordered that the Texas and
Pacific Railway Company be made the party plaintiff in error
in this cause,
"And whereas in the present term of October, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety-one, the
said cause came on to be heard before the said Supreme Court
on the said transcript of record, and was argued by counsel,
"On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court that the judgment of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs and interest until paid, at the same rate per annum that
similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of Texas, and
that the said plaintiff recover against the said the Texas and
Pacific Railway Company for her costs herein expended,
and have execution therefor. -May 16, 1892.
"You, therefore, are hereby commanded that such execution and proceedings be had in said cause as according to
right and justice and the laws of the United States ought to
be had, the said writ of error notwithstanding."
Pending the writ of error, the defendant Ida May Cox intermarried with one Scott Anderson. Upon reception of the
mandate, execution was issued by the clerk of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas
against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company for the full
amount of the judgment with eight per cent interest and
costs. The company thereupon filed its bill against the marshal in whose hands the execution had been placed, asking
that he be restrained from levying the same upon the ground
that there was no judgment to support the execution. A
restraining order was granted, which was continued in force
until November 22, 1892, when it was dissolved. On that
day Mr. and Mrs. Anderson filed a motion that execution
should issue in their names against the defendant company
This motion was resisted but the objections of the company
thereto were overruled, and the court entered an order directing the clerk to record the mandate and to issue execution
against the company for the sum recovered with interest at
eight per cent from the date of the original judgment, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

costs, to which action of the court the company excepted, and
a bill of exceptions having been signed and approved, a writ
of error was allowed from the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit. The case came on to be heard in that court
upon the motion of the defendants in error to dismiss the writ
of error for want of jurisdiction and upon the merits, whereupon the court granted a certificate stating the facts as above
given, though with greater particularity, which concluded as
follows
"Whereupon, the court desiring the instrfaction of the honorable the Supreme Court of the United States for the proper
decision of the questions arising herein, it is hereby ordered
that the following questions and propositions of law be certified to the honorable the Supreme Court of the United States
in accordance with the provisions of section 6 of the act entitled IAn act to establish Circuit Courts of Appeals and define
and regulate'n certain cases the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of the United States, and for other purposes,' approved
March 3, 1891, to wit:
"First. Does the act of March 3, 1891, entitled ' An act to
establish Circuit Courts of Appeals and to define and regulate in
certain cases the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States,
and for other purposes,' give to said Circuit Courts of Appeals
jurisdiction by appeal or writ of error or otherwise to review
the decrees, orders, or judgments made by District Courts or
existing Circuit Courts construing a mandate from the Supreme
Court of the United States and in executing the same
"Second. Was it the intention of the Supreme Court of the
United States in affirming the judgment in the case of John
C. Brown, plaintiff in error, v. Ida May Cox, defendant in
error, that said judgment should be subject to the general
equitable jurisdiction of the court in which such receiver was
appointed and be paid in due course of the administration of
said receivership, or did it intend that execution should issue
directly against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company for
the amount of said judgment 2
"Third. At the date said judgment was originally recovered,
to wit, September 15, 1888, it bore interest under the law of

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. ANDERSON.

241

Opmion of the Court.

the State of Texas at the rate of 8 per cent per annum. Subsequently, to wit, on April 13, 1891, the statute of the State
of Texas fixing the rate of interest that judgments of this
kind should bear was amended, so that instead of bearing
eight per cent interest judgments thereafter obtained were
made to bear only six per cent interest per annum. Should
the judgment in this case bear interest at the rate of eight per
cent per annum or at the rate of six per cent per annum 2"
.Mr ,Th n F Dillon, -Wr Winslow S. Pserce and .2r1b
Henry Hubbard for plaintiff in error.
.Mr F Hallett Phillipsfor defendant in error.
MR. Cmn JusTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court was correct in awarding execution
against the company under the mandate. The judgment was
originally against the receiver, to be paid in due course out of
the assets in his hands, but the receiver had been discharged
and the property restored to the company, and the company
had been substituted as the party to the writ of error here,
and been made in all respects as liable to the defendant in
error as if it had itself brought the writ. The judgment was
made final by the order of this court, and was not again subject to be reviewed by the court below in the exercise of its
equitable powers or otherwise. If the judgment had been
reversed, the company would have recovered its costs against
athe defendant in error, and the reversal would have been a
bar to any liability on the judgment as such. It so happened
that it was affirmed, and the company was equally concluded.
rhile the only question is as to the order of this court, we do
not think there is any conflict between the mandate and the
stipulation, or that the language of the stipulation in any
respect limited the liability of the company in case of affirmance. Every point the receiver could have presented was
raised on behalf of the company, and disposed of after elaboVOL. CXLIX-16

