OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

tion, and appropriated to the specific purpose of the owner.
The same result may follow from the more attractive appearance or the more perfect finsh of the article, from more
extensive advertising, larger discounts in price, or greater
energy m pushing sales. While the popularity of the Orum
lock may be due to its greater usefulness, or to the fact that
it was put upon the market just at the tune when cabinetmakers were looking for a lock of this description, it is certainly not due to any patentable feature in its construction.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bill is, there-

fore,
__________Afoimed-

UNDERWOOD v. GERBER.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 217. Argued April 19, 1893.-Decided May 1,1893.

In a suit in equity brought on letters patent No. 348,073, granted August 24,
1886, on an application filed March 22, 1886, to John T. Underwood and
Frederick W Underwood, for a "1reproducing surface for type-writing
and manifolding," the claim being for "A sheet of material or fabric
coated with a composition composed of a precipitate of dye-matter,
obtained as described, in combination with oil, wax, or oleaginous matter, substantially as and for the purposes set forth," it appeared that
letters patent No. 348,072, had been granted to the plaintiffs August 24,
1886, on an application filed March 22, 1886, the claim of which was for
"The coloring composition herein described for the manufacture of a
substitute for carbon-paper, composed of a precipitate of dye-matter, in
combination with oil, wax, or oleaginous matter, substantially as set
forth." The suit was not brought on No. 348,072. The only difference
in the two patents was that No. 348,073 was for spreading upon paper
the composition described in No. 348,072 Held that, m view of earlier
patents and publications, there was no novelty in taking a coloring substance already known and applying it to paper- that the omission to
claim in No. 348,073, the composition of matter described in it was a disclaimer of it, as being public property and that there was no invention
in applying it to paper, as claimed in No. 348,073.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

UNDERWOOD v. GERBER.
Opinion of the Court.

-MrIwrnngstom Giord for appellants.
son filed a brief for same.

-r

.Tames -4. Hud-

.M3e Arthur v. Brwesen for appellees.
MRb. JUsTICE BIAvFc-ORD

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of iNew York, by
John T. Underwood and Frederick W Underwood against
Henry Gerber and Anton Andreas, founded on the alleged
infringement of letters patent No. 348,073, granted to the
plaintiffs August 24, 1886, on an application filed March 22,
1886, for a "reproducing surface for type-writing and mauifolding."
The specification reads as follows
"Our invention relates to an inproved reproducing-surface
adapted to be employed for obtaining copies of type-writing
or other printed or written impressions by means of a typewriter or other printing device, or by the employment of a
stylus or other writing means.
"Our improved transfer-surface is spread, upon a sheet or
vehicle, and when so applied is adapted to be employed in
place of the articles of trade commonly known and designated as 'carbon paper' or 'semi-carbon paper,' which are
employed by type-writers and others to produce copies of inpressions either obtained by a machine or by a stylus or
other writing means.
"[In carrying out our invention we employ in the manufacture of our unproved transfer-surface dye-wood solutions
or their active principles, which we filter and precipitate with
alkalies and mineral salts, or with alkalies, acids, and mineral
salts, or with acids or alkalies alone. After the solution has
been filtered the precipitate is removed from the filtering
device and dried. The precipitate is then mixed with lard-oil
and wax or their equivalents, and the mixture is then ground
together in a warm state.
VOL.CxLIx-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"The dye solutions we prefer to employ are obtained from
logwood or haimatoxylin, the active principle of logwood,
Brazil wood, sapan wood, peach wood, madder, or its active
principle - alizarme.

"The proportions we find to answer well in producing our
improved surface are as follows Take one pound of extract
of logwood and dissolve the same in one gallon of water, then
add to the solution one pound of soda and one pound of
mineral salt, using one of the salts of iron or copper, preferably sulphate of copper. The mixture thus obtained is then
placed in a filter. After the solution has been filtered the
precipitate is removed from the device employed for ftltenng
and tMen dried, after whsch the pre pitate ss ready forase.

To every two pounds of precipitate thus obtained we add one
pound of oil and one pound of wax, and then grind the mixture in a warm state m what is commonly known as a ' paint '
or other suitable grinding mill. The heated mixture thus
obtained is then applied to tissue-paper or other suitable paper
or fabric by means of a sponge or other suitable transferring
device.
"The paper or fabric to which our improved surface is to be
applied is placed upon a heated table, by preference formed of
non, and heated.by steam, but this may be varied.
"In place of employing oil or wax, or both combined, we
can employ any other suitable oleaginous matter or combmation of oleaginous matter having eqmvalent or approximately
equivalent properties.]"
The claim is as follows
"A sheet of material or fabric coated with a composition
composed of a precipitate of dye-matter, obtained as described,
in combination with oil, wax, or oleaginous matter, substantially as and for the purposes set forth."
The answer sets up as defences want of novelty and noninfringement. There was a replication, proofs were taken,
and the case was brought to a bearing before Judge Lacombe,
who entered a decree dismissing the bill. His opinion is reported in 37 Fed. Rep. 682. The plaintiffs have appealed to
this court. Since the appeal was taken, Frederick W Under-

UNDERWOOD v. GERBER.
Opinion of the Court.

wood has died, and John T. Underwood and Hannah E.
Underwood, as his executors, have been substituted as coappellants, with the surviving appellant, John T. Underwood.
Among the proofs introduced by the defendants was a
patent, No. 348,072, granted by the United States to the
same persons to whom No. 348,073 was granted, dated August
24, 1886, on an application filed March 22, 1886, the specification of winch states as follows "1Our invention relates to the
process of producing a transfer-surface adapted to be employed
upon a sheet or vehicle to take the place of the articles of
trade commonly known and designated as ' carbon papers' or
' sem-carbon papers,' which are employed by type-writers or
others to produce copies of impressions either obtained by a
machine or by a stylus or other writing means." Then the
specification proceeds in the same words that are contained
in brackets in the foregoing specification of No. 348,073,
leaving out the words that are in italics, and changing the
word "1paint" to " paint-mill-"
The claim of No. 348,072 is as follows
"1The coloring composition herein described for the manufacture of a substitute for carbon paper, composed of a precipitate of dye-matter, in combination with oil, wax, or oleaginous matter, substantially as set forth."
This suit was not brought on No. 348,072. The defendants have made the composition of matter described in both
of the patents, and have combined paper with it as indicated
in No. 348,073. The only difference in the two patents is that
No. 348,073 is for spreading upon paper the composition described in No. 348,072.
The opinion of the Circuit Court says that in view of the
earlier patents and publications put in evidence, it was difficult to see what novelty or invention there was in taking a
coloring substance already known and applying it to paper,
that, if No. 348,072 had been granted to some person the
day before the plaintiffs applied for 1o. 348,073, the latter
would clearly be void for want of novelty or invention, that,
if No. 348,072 were held by an assignee of the plaintiffs, near
or remote, he could not be held as an infringer of No. 348,073,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that an assignee of No. 348,072 could not be so held except
for the combination of paper with the coloring substance for
the purpose named, that such a combination was old, that
the plaintiffs insisted that their position was the same as if
they held a patent with two -claims, one for the composition
of matter producing the coloring substance, and the other for
the combination of that substance with paper, that this might
be so, if they could be considered as holding both of the
patents, but in the suit they had abstained from declaring on
No. 348,072, or even referring to it, that its issue was known
to the court only through the defendants, who set it up in
defence, that the plaintiffs based their claam to a monopoly
solely upon No. 348,073, that, as that patent might stand or
fall, so the case which they made out upon their bill must
also stand or fall, that the holders of No. 348,073 must submit it to a comparison with No. 348,072 as if the latter patent
were outstanding, that thus, at the time when No. 848,073
was issued, the composition of matter which enters into the
combination with paper was known, and the right to exclude
all persons from making such composition was conferred upon
the holder of No. 348,072, that the right to exclude all persons from combining paper with that composition was conferred upon the holders .f No. 348,073, but, m view of the
state of the art, such a grant was void, that the combination
which No. 348,073 sought to cover was not patentable, that
this suit, being based upon that patent alone, must, therefore,
fail, and that, to the holder of No. 348,072, whoever he
might be, belonged the right to exclude all others from making the new composition of matter, the only invention which
(if the other issues in the case were decided against the defendants) was sufficiently novel to warrant the granting of
letters patent.
This opinion was filed February 13, 1889, and on March
20, 1889, the plaintiffs moved the court for leave to amend
their bill and to take further proofs. The court made an
order on that day, that, on the payment of the defendants'
costs on the final hearing, the plaintiffs should have leave to
amend their bill by the insertion of apt words, whereby they

UNDERWOOD v. GERBER.
Opinion of the Court.

should allege their ownership, and the infringement by the
defendants, of letters patent No. 348,072, that, on the service
of the amended bill, the defendants should answer, plead, or
demur, and after replication proofs should be taken, strictly
limited to the questions arising on No. 348,072, and the case
should stand for final hearing on all the issues, but that, if
the plaintiffs failed to pay such costs within ten days after
taxation, or failed to file their amended bill within ten days
after paying such costs, the bill should be dismissed. The
plaintiffs did not pay such costs or amend their bill, and the
decree of dismissal was entered on April 26, 1889.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court
must be affirmed. There was no patentable novelty or invention, in view of the earlier patents and publications put in
evidence, in applying an existing coloring substance to paper.
In the English patent granted to Ralph Wedgwood in 1806,
there is described a carbonated paper, as follows "I make
use of a prepared paper, which I call duplicate paper. This
is made by thinly smearing over any kind of thin paper with
any kind of oil, preferring those kinds of oil which are least
liable to oxygenizement, or to be evaporated by heat," and
it is said "The ink made use of in this mode of writing consists of carbon, or any other coloring substance, and finely
Or coloring matter of
levigated in any kind of oil.
any kind and in any other medium or vehicle may be used,
provided that medium be such as will admit of the coloring
matter being transferred to the duplicate and writing paper,
some coloring substances may likewise be used without any
medium or vehicle."
In the English patent granted to Charles Swan and George
Frederick Swan, in February, 1856, a black coloring matter
is described, applicable to the purposes of writing, dyeing, or
staining, and it is said that the inventors employ an extract
of logwood, treated with bichromate of potash, or with
perchloride of mercury, subcarbonate of potash, chlorate of
potash, and spirit of ammonia, and, also, "the said coloring
matter may be obtained in a liquid form by introducing the
salts above mentioned into a liqid extract of logwood, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

straining or otherwise purifying, the fluid in any suitable
manner, or the said coloring matter may be obtained in a
solid form by combining the aforesaid salts with a solid preparation of extract of logwood, or by evaporation or distillation from the liquid coloring matter above described, and the
solid coloring matter may be kept on hand till required, and
reduced to a liquid form by dilution with any suitable proportion of water. And the coloring fluid obtained in any of
the modes hereinbefore set forth, in .the form of an ink, may
be converted into a copying fluid by the addition of any
saccharine or other thickening ingredients hitherto employed,
or which may be found applicable, it may also be obtained
from the solid coloring matter by any suitable process."
The United States patent granted to Charles Cowan, May
4, 1869, for an improvement in the preparation of copyingpaper, says "I first prepare a mixture of the following ingredients Boiled linseed-oil, two parts, spirits of turpentine,
one part, copal varnish, one part. With this compound I
smear the paper thinly and evenly on one side, and allow it
to soak and dry for about half an hour, then I apply the
coloring matter, which I prepare as follows For black, I take
ivory-black, four parts, pure black lead, four parts; Prussian
blue, one part." He then gives sundry recipes for different
colors, and says "My copying-paper is applicable to making
copies of letters, designs, or characters of any desired description."

In Miller v Brass Co., 104 U S. 350, 352, it is said "The
claim of a specific device or combination, and an omission to
claim other devices or combinations apparent on the face of
the patent, are, m law, a dedication to the public of that
which is not claimed. It is a declaration that that which is
not claimed is either not the patentee's invention, or,if his,
he dedicates it to the public."
In .talm v Harwood, 112 U S. 354, 360, 361, it is said
"The taking out of a patent which has (as the law requires
it to have) a specific claim, is notice to all the world, of the
most public and solemn kind, that all those parts of the art,
machine, or manufacture set out and described in the specifi-

