OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

BYERS v. MoAULEY
McAULEY v. MoAULEY
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 124, 130. Argued and submitted February 2, 1893. -Decided May 10, 1893.

It is a rule of general application, that where property is in the actual
possession of a court of competent jurisdiction, such possession cannot
be disturbed by process issued out of another court.
An administrator appointed by a state court is an officer of that court; his
possession of the decedent's property is the possession of that court;
and as such it cannot be disturbed by process issued out of a Federal
court.
The jurisdiction of the Federal courts is a limited jurisdiction, depending
either upon the existence of a Federal question or the diverse citizenships of the parties; and where these elements of jurisdiction are wanting, it cannot proceed, even with the consent of the parties.
Federal courts have no oriMgnal junsdiction in respect to the administration
of decedents' estates, and they cannot by entertaining jurisdiction of
a suit against the administrator, which they have the power to do in
certain cases, draw to themselves the full possession of the res, or
invest themselves with the authority of determining all claims against
it.
A citizen of another State may proceed in the Federal courts to establish a
debt against the estate, but the debt thus established must take its place
and share in the estate as administered by the probate court; it cannot
be enforced by direct process against the estate itself.
Therefore a distributee, citizen of another State, may establish his right to
a share in the estate, and enforce such adjudication against the administrator personally or his sureties, or against other persons liable therefor,
or proceed in any way which does not disturb the actual possession of
the property by the state court.
In this case it was reversible error for the Circuit Court to take any action
or make any decree looking to the mere administration of the estate, or
to attempt to adjudicate as between themselves the rights of the litigants who were citizens of the State of Pennsylvania, the res being in
the possession of a court of that State.
The case of Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 42.5, explained and distinguished.
JAMES MCAULEY, who died on the 9th day of January, 1871,
by his will, dated November 26, 1870, made large bequests to

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Statement of the Case.

his sisters Margaret and Mary, and also devised to them a house
and lot on Duquesne Way, in the city of Pittsburgh. Mai:garet died intestate in 1871, a few months after her brother,
and her interest passed to her sister Mary, who died January
6, 1886, seized of said real estate, and leaving also a large
personal estate. As respects the latter, she died intestate,
but she left an instrument in writing signed by her, the body
thereof being also in her handwriting, of which the following
is a copy
"By request of my dear brother, my house on Duquesne
Way is to be sold at my death, and the proceeds to be divided
between the 'Home of the Friendless' and the 'Home for
Protestant Destitute Women.'
"M Y McAuLEY."
On January 12, 1886, this instrument was admitted to probate by the register of Allegheny County, Pa., as. the will of
Mary McAuley, and letters of administration cum testamento
annexo upon her estate were issued to Alexander M. Byers.
Byers proceeded with the administration of the estate, and
on January 29, 1887, he filed in the register's office an account showing his receipts and expenditures, and what balance
he had in his hands for distribution, amounting to the sum of
$212,235.61.
The account of Byers, as administrator with the will annexed, was examined and allowed by the register, and was
presented for approval to the orphans' court of Allegheny
County, and was by that court, on -March 7, 1887, approved
and confirmed ntsz, and, no exceptions thereto having been
filed, the confirmation became absolute.
Thereupon, in pursuance of statutory directions, this confirmed account was put upon the audit list of the orphans'
court for distribution of the balance shown to be in the admmistrator's hands, and the court fixed March 29, 1887, as
the day to hear the case.
On March 28, 1887, the day before the hearing thus fixed, a
bill in equity was filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Pennsylvama, by Henry B.
i

VOL. CXLIX-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Shields, a resident and citizen of the State of Ohio, assignee of
James McAuley, a citizen of the State of Kansas, and Henry
B. Shields, in right of his wife, Melissa M. Shields, also a resident and citizen of Ohio, against the administrator Byers, and
other parties claiming to be interested in the estate, among
them the two corporations named in the instrument above
quoted. The bill set forth the death of Mary McAuley; that
there were two classes of claimants to the estate, to wit, the
first and second cousins of the decedent, that the so-called
will was null and void, and that there was a large amount of
personal estate in the hands of defendant Byers, administrator,
etc. The prayer was that the will and the probate be declared
-yold and of no effect, that the administrator be enjoined
from disposing of the real estate, and from collecting the rents
therefrom, and that some suitable person be appointed to take
charge of it until partition, that a partition of it be had and
made to and among the various parties in interest, and that
the defendant Byers be ordered and directed to make a full,
just, and true account of all assets in his hands, that an account be taken of the testator's debts and funeral expenses,
and the surplus be distributed among the plaintiff and all
other parties legally entitled thereto, and for general relief.
To this bill the administrator Byers filed a plea, setting up the
proceedings in the orphans' court. This plea was, after argument, overruled by the Circuit Court.
The cause was then put at issue by answer and replication.
On May 20, 1888, an interlocutory decree was entered, directing that said A. M. Byers, administrator of Mary 1cAuley,
deceased, should file an account of the personal estate before a
master who was then appointed, and the master was directed
to take testimony as to the parties interested in the distribution of the balance in the hands of said administrator, and to
report the testimony, with a schedule of distribution, to the
court. The administrator stated before the master an account,
which was identical with the account theretofore confirmed
by the orphans' court. The master further took testimony as
to who were the distributees, and reported the same to the
court with a schedule of distribution.

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Counsel for Appellee m No. 124.

On January 5, 1889, a final decree was made by the Circuit
Court-as follows
"And now, to wit, January 5, 1889, this cause came on to
be heard on bill, answers, replication, testimony, and the report of the master with exceptions thereto, and was argued by
counsel, whereupon, upon consideration thereof by the court,
it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the proceeds of the
sale of the real estate that was of Mary McAuley, deceased,
situate on Duquesne Way, in the city of Pittsburgh, after
deducting expenses attending the same, shall be distributed
equally between the 'Home for the Friendless' and the
'Home for Aged Protestant Women.'
"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the
exceptions to the master's report be overruled and the said
report confirmed, and that the personal estate of said decedent be distributed among the thirteen first cousins of said
decedent to the exclusion of her second cousins in conformity
with said master's report, and that unless an appeal be duly
entered from this decree within sixty days from this date the
administrator is ordered to transfer the stocks and pay out the
cash of said decedent's personal estate in accordance with
the schedule of distribution reported by the said master, adding
the sum of nine dollars and sixty-one cents ($9.61) to the cash
share of each of said thirteen distributees to cover the duplicate credit of one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125) for
examiner's fees inadvertently allowed in said master's report."
From this decree several appeals were taken to this court,
two of which remain for consideration, to wit, the appeal of
the administrator, and that of Dora MWcAuley and others,
second cousins of the deceased, with their husbands.
!r _D T
his brief.

Wftson, for appellant in No. 124, submitted on

7r S. Schoyer, 7r?., _Yr Walter Iyon and _Ur -f. Xt. Watson, for appellants, in No. 130, submitted on their brief.
Xir Thomas Patterson,for the Pittsburgh and Allegheny
Home for the Friendless, appellee in No. 124., and Xr6 George

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

612

Opmlon of the Court.

C. Burgwi, for the home for Aged Protestant Women
appellee, in No. 124, submitted on their respective briefs.
-Mr D F Patterson, for Sarah Thompson and another,
appellees in No. 121. .r
John IV Donnan, and Mr J -l.
llcBurney were with him on his brief.
r _. P' Jone8 and
.r
C. TV Jones, for Robert F McAuley and other appellees,
were also on AXr D F Patterson'sbrief.

[Ri.

JusTicE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is obvious from the decree which was entered that the
Circuit Court of the United States assumed full control of the
administration of the estate. That decree disposed of and
distributed the entire estate among all the persons interested
therein, citizens and non-citizens of the State. It did not stop
with an adjudication of the claims of citizens of other States
against the estate, but assumed to determine controversies between citizens of the same State, for the two corporations
named in the first paragraph were both citizens of Pennsylvania, and yet the decree determined their rights as against
the estate, as well as between themselves. Not only that, of
both the first and second cousins, between whom, as shown
by the last paragraph, distribution was made, some were citizens of the State of Pennsylvania and some of other States,
and yet all their claims, as between themselves and as against
the estate, were disposed of by this decree.
Indeed, the decree as a whole cannot be sustained, unless
upon the theory that the Federal court had the power on the
filing of this bill to take bodily the administration of the estate
out of the hands of the state court, and transfer it to its own
forum. It was not a judgment against the estate, but a decree,
binding personally the administrator, and compelling hun,
subject to the penalties of disobedience of a decree of a court
of chancery, to administer the estate according to the orders
of the Federal rather than those of the state court which had
appointed him. If we look back of the decree to the proceed-

BYERS v. XcAULEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ings which were had in the Circuit Court, intermediate the
filing of the bill and the decree, it will be perceived that that
court proceeded as though the entire administration of the
estate had been transferred to it from the state court. Thus,
on December 3,1887, the administrator filed in the Circuit
Court a petition, commencing as follows "The petition of A.
M. Byers, administrator of all and singular the goods and
chattels of Mary McAuley, late of the county of Allegheny,
deceased, respectfully shows That this honorable court has
taken jurisdiction of your petitioner as administrator and of
the assets of the decedent, which your petitioner has in his
hands," setting forth the ownership of 250 shares of railway
stock, and praying for an order as to its disposal. Upon the
filing of such petition the court directed that notice be given
to all counsel of record, and on December 10, made an order
for the disposition of the stock. So, on December 24, 1888,
the administrator having filed a petition for leave to sell the
real estate, the Circuit Court made an order directing the sale,
"report of such sale to be made to this court for confirmation,
and the proceeds to be held subject to the decree of this court."
It is true that the administrator presented like applications to
the state court, and obtained like orders, except that in the
order for the sale of the real estate there was in terms no
command to report the sale for confirmation and hold the proceeds subject to the decree of that court. Evidently the
administrator did not know which court had the power to control in these matters the actual administration of the estate,
and so, for prudential reasons, applied to and obtained similar
orders from both. So both by the terms of the final decree,
and by the proceedings in the Circuit Court preliminary'
thereto, it is clear that the question is fairly presented to us as
to the power of the Circuit Court of the United States to
interfere with the administration of an estate in a state court.
Such a question is of importance. No officer appointed by
any court should be placed under the stress which rested upon
this administrator, and compelled for his own protection to
seek orders from two courts in respect to the administration
of the same estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

In order to pave the way to a clear understanding of this
question, it may be well to state some general propositions
which have become fully settled by the decisions of this court,
and, first, it is a rule of general application, that where property is in the actual possession of one court of competent jurisdiction, such possession cannot be disturbed by process out of
another court. The doctrine has been affirmed again and
again by this court. Ragan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400, Taylor v
Carryl, 20 H=ow 583, Peck v Jenness, 7 How 612, 625,
Freeman v Howe, 24 How 450, Ellis v 9avzs, 109 U S.
485, 498, JKr2ppendorf v Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, Covell v
Heyman, 111 U. S. 176, Borer v Chapman, 119 U S. 587,
600. In Covell v -Heyan, supra, the matter was fully discussed, and in the opinion by Mr. Justice Matthews, on p.
179, the rule is stated at length "The point of the decision
in Freeman v Howe, supra, is that, when property is taken
and held under process, mesne or final, of a court of the
United States, it is in the custody of the law, and within the
exclusive jurisdiction of the court from which the process has
issued, for the purposes of the writ, that the possession of the
officer cannot be disturbed by process from any state court,
because to disturb that possession would be to invade the jurisdiction of the court by whose command it is held, and to
violate the law which that jurisdiction isappointed to admmister; ,that any person, not a party to the suit or judgment,
whose property has been wrongfully, but under color of process, taken and withheld, may prosecute, by ancillary proceedings, in the court whence the process issued, his remedy for
restitution of the property or its proceeds while remaining in
the control of that court, but that all other remedies to which
he may be entitled, against officers or parties, not involving
the withdrawal of the property or its proceeds, from the custody of the officer and the jurisdiction of the court, he may
pursue in any tribunal, state or federal, having jurisdiction
over the parties and the subject matter. And moe versa, the
same principle protects the possession of the property while
thus held, by process issuing from state courts, against any
disturbance under process of the courts of the United States,

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Opinion of the Court.

excepting, of course, those cases wherein the latter exercise
jurisdiction for the purpose of enforcing the supremacy of the
Constitution and laws of the United States."
Secondly An administrator appointed by a state court is
an officer of that court, his possession of the decedent's property is a possession taken in obedience to the orders of that
court, it is the possession of the court, and it is a possession
which cannot be disturbed by any other court. Upon this
proposition we have direct decisions of this court. In
illiams v. Benedict, 8 How 107, 112, it is said "As, therefore,
the judgment obtained by the plaintiffs in the court below did
not entitle them to a prior lien, or a right of satisfaction in
preference to the other creditors of the insolvent estate, they
have no right to take in execution the property of the deceased
which the probate court has ordered to be sold for the purpose
of an equal distribution among all creditors. The jurisdiction
of that court has attached to the assets;, they are b gremto
legws. And if the marshal were permitted to seize them under
an execution, it would not only cause manifest injustice to be
done to the rights of others, but be the occasion of an unpleasant conflict between courts of separate and independent jurisdiction." And in 7onley v -Lavender, 21 Wall. 276, it was
held that where the statute of a State places the whole estate,
real and personal, of the decedent within the custody of the
probate court of a county, a non-resident creditor may get a
judgment m the Federal court against the resident executor or
administrator, and come in under the law of the State for such
payment as that law marshalling the rights of creditors
awards to creditors of his class, but he cannot, because he
has obtained a judgment in the Federal court, issue execution,
and take precedence of other creditors who have no right to
sue in the Federal courts, and if he do issue execution and sell
the lands, the sale is void. And in the course of the opinion,
on p. 280, it was observed
"The administration laws of
Arkansas are not merely rules of practice for the courts, but
laws limiting the rights of parties, and will be observed by the
Federal courts in the enforcement of individual rights. These
laws, on the death of DuBose and the appointment of his ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ministrator, withdrew the estate from the operation of the
execution laws of the State and placed it in the hands of
a trustee for the benefit of creditors and distributees.
It
was thereafter in contemplation of law in the custody of
the probate court, of which the administrator was an officer,
and during the progress of administration was not subject to
seizure and sale by any one. The recovery of judgment gave
no prior lien on the property, but simply fixed the status of
the party and compelled the administrator to recognize it in
the payment of debts. It would be out of his power to perform the duties with which he was charged by law if the
property entrusted to him by a court of competent jurisdiction
could be taken from him and appropriated to the payment of
a single creditor to the injury of all others. How can he account for the assets of the estate to the court from which he
derived his authority if another court can interfere and take
them out of his hands 2" See also VFaughn v N-orthup, 15
Pet. 1, Peale v Phzspp, 14 How 367.
There is nothing in any decision of this court, controverting
the proposition thus stated, that the administrator is the officer
of the state court appointing him, and that property placed
in his possession by order of that court is in the custody of
the court. One of the cases specially relied on by counsel for
appellees is Payne v Hook, 7 Wall. 425. The opinion in that
case was written by Mr. Justice Davis, who wrote the opinion
in the case last quoted from, and in the latter opinion he said
that there was nothing in Payne v -Hook to conflict with the
views therein expressed, and, indeed, there was not. Payne
v Rook was the case of a bill filed by one of the distributees
of an estate against the administrator and the sureties on his
official bond, to obtain her distributive share in the estate of
the decedent. Plaintiff was a citizen of Virginia, and the
defendant a citizen of Missouri, and an administrator appointed
by the probate court of one of its counties. Suit was brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Missouri. The charge in the bill was gross misconduct on the
part of the administrator, and false settlement with the probate
court, and that he had, by fraudulent misrepresentations,

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Opunon of the Court.

obtained a settlement with plaintiff for a sum less than she
was entitled to. A demurrer to the bill was sustained in the
court below, but this court held that the bill was sufficient, and
that the demurrer was improperly sustained. In other words,
the ruling was that plaintiff, a citizen of another State, could
apply to the Federal courts to enforce her claim against an
administrator arising out of his wrongful administration of
the estate. To the objection that the other distributees were
not made parties, the court replied that it was unnecessary,
that it was a proceeding alone against the administrator and
his sureties. In the opinion, on p. 431, it is said. "The bill
under' review has this object, and nothing more. It seeks to
compel the defendant, Hook, to account and pay over to Mrs.
Payne her rightful share in the estate of her brother, and in
case he should not do it, to fix the liability of the sureties on
his bond." There was no suggestion in the bill that the
Federal court take possession of the estateand remove it from
the custody of the administrator appointed by the state court,
no attempt to settle the claims of citizens of the State, as between themselves, no attempt to take the administration of
the estate, but simply to establish and enforce, in behalf of a
citizen of another State, her claim to a share of the estate.
That this is the true interpretation of that case is also evident
from these quotations from subsequent opinions. Thus in
Ellis v .Dam~s, 109 U S. 485, 498, it was said "In Payne
v Rook, 7 Wall. 425, it was decided that the jirisdiction
of the Circuit Court of the United States, in a case for
equitable relief, was not excluded because, by the laws of the
State, the matter was within the exclusive jurisdiction of its
probate courts, but, as in all other cases of conflict between
jurisdictions of independent and concurrent 'authority, that
which has first acquired possession of the 'es, which is the subject of the litigation, is entitled to administer it. Williams
v Benedict, 8 How 107, Bank of Tennessee v Horn, 17
How 157,
-onleyv Lavender, 21 Wall. 276, Taylor v Carryl, 20 How 583, Freeman v Howe, 24 How 150.,' And in
Borer v Chapman, 119 U S.587, 600, after a quotation from
the opinion in Payne v Hook, it is added "The only quali-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the CoIr.

fication in the application of this principle is, that the courts
of the United States, in the exercise of their jurisdiction over
the parties, cannot seize or control property while in the custody of a court of the State." The distinction between that
case and this is like that which exists between the cases of
.Feeman v Hfowe, 24: How 450, and Buck v Colbath, 3 Wall.
334. In the former of these cases this court held that when
property was in the custody of a United States marshal, under
process from a Federal court, it could not be taken from him
by any process out of a state court, that the possession of the
marshal was the possession of the court, and no other court
could disturb it , while, in the latter case, it held that an action
of trespass could be maintained in a state court against a
marshal of the Federal court for goods improperly taken
possession of, because such an action in no way interfered with
the custody of property by the Federal court. So, here,
Payne v Hook established that a citizen of another State
could recover from an administrator the share of an estate
wrongfully withheld by him, and enforce that recovery by a
decree over against the sureties of the administrator's bond,
while the opinion of the court below, in the present case, gives
to the Federal court power to take possession of property in
the hands of an administrator appointed by the state court,
and thus dispossess that court of its custody
Thirdly The jurisdiction of the Federal courts is a limited
one, depending upon either the existence of a Federal question
or diverse citizenship of the parties. Where these elements
of jurisdiction are wanting, it cannot proceed, even with the
consent of the parties. There is in the controversies growing
out of the settlement of this estate no Federal question, the
jurisdiction, therefore, must depend upon diverse citizenship,
and can go no further than that diverse citizenship extends.
The fact that other parties may be interested in the question
involved is no reason for the Federal courts taking jurisdiction
of the controversy between such parties.
It is true that when the Federal court takes property into
its custody, as it does sometimes by a receiver, it may entertain
jurisdiction of claims against that property in favor of citizens

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the same State as the receiver, or either of the parties.
But that is an ancillary jurisdiction, it is in aid of that which
it has acquired by virtue of the seizure of the property, and
in order, it having possession, that it may make final disposition of the property Possession of the Tes draws to the
court having possession all controversies concerning the r"es.
If original jurisdiction of the administration of the estates
of deceased persons were in the Federal court, it might by instituting such an administration and taking possession of the
estate, through an administrator appointed by it, draw to
itself all controversies affecting that estate, irrespective of the
citizenship of the respective parties. But it has no original
jurisdiction in respect to the administration of a deceased
person. It did not in this case assume to take possession of
the estate in the first instance, and it cannot, by entertaining
jurisdiction of a suit against the administrator, draw to itself
the full possession of the estate, or the power of determining
all claims against or to it.
Under the present law of Congress, a receiver appointed by
a Federal court and in possession of property may be subjected
to suits in the courts of the State without leave obtained in
the first instance from the Federal court. 25 Stat. 436, c. 866.
Would it be tolerated for a moment that the commencement
of such a suit in the state court against a receiver enabled the
state court to draw to itself the entire administration of the
receivership, and oust the Federal court from the possession
and custody of the property 2 The mere statement of the
question carries its own answer. While the validity of a claim
against the receiver may be established in the state court,
the administration of the property in the hands of the receiver
remains with the Federal court whose officer he is, and the
amount the claimant will receive from the proceeds of the
property in the hands of the receiver is not settled by the state
court, which only determines the validity and extent of the
demand, but rests upon the result of the administration, as
ordered by the Federal court. The fact that the Federal
court entertaining the suit of one claimant against an estate
may entertain a different view of the law controlling the

OCTOBER TERM\f, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

rights of that claimant, from that entertained by the court of
the State in a suit brought by a claimant, citizen of the State,
holding a like character of claim, is no ground for enlarging
the jurisdiction of the Federal court beyond that given to it
by the Constitution of the United States.
A citizen of another State may establish a debt against the
estate.

Yonley v Lavender, 21 Wall. 276, Bess v Reynolds,

113 U S. 73. IBut the debt thus established must take its
place and share of the estate as administered by the probate
court, and it cannot be enforced by process directly against
the property of the decedent.

0

Tonley v Lavender, supra.

In like manner a distributee, citizen of another State, may
establish his right to a share in the estate, and enforce such
adjudication against the administrator personally, or his
sureties, Paayne v Uook, supra, or against any other parties
subject to liability, Borer v Chapman, sua,&, or in any

other way which does not disturb the possession of the property by the state court. See the many cases heretofore cited.
Our conclusion, therefore, is, that the Federal court erred in
taking any action or making any decree looking to the mere
administration of the estate, or in attempting to adjudicate
the rights of citizens of the State, as between themselves. The
state court had proceeded so far as the administration of the
estate carries it forward to the time when distribution may be
had. In other words, the debts of the estate had been paid,
and the estate was ready for distribution, but no adjudication
had been made as to the distributees, and in that exigency the
Circuit Court might entertain jurisdiction in favor of all citizens of other States, to determine and award their shares in
the estate. Further than that, it was not at liberty to go. In
that determination it made two rulings, in respect to both of
which we think the court was correct. First, in holding that
the distributees had no interest in the real estate specially
described in the first paragraph of the decree. Indeed, the
ruling of the court in this respect is not seriously challenged.
It is true that there is an assignment of error, in the first
appeal, to the action of the court below in treating the provision in the will of Mary McAuley, that the proceeds of sale

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the real estate on Duquesne Way should be divided between
the " H ome for the Friendless" and the " H ome for Aged
Protestant Women," as a valid declaration of a trust, and in
decreeing accordingly But this assignment seems to have
been abandoned, or, at all events, is not contended for in the
appellants' brief. We content ourselves, therefore, with saying that we see no error in the judgment of the court below
in that particular. It needs no argument to show that a written instrument, though inefficacious as a will, from a want of
compliance with statutory requisitions, may yet operate as a
declaration of a trust. 1 Perry on Trusts, ยง 91.
The other ruling was, that the first cousins were entitled to
take the estate to the exclusion of the second cousins. In this
the Circuit Court of the United States had to deal with a
question of local law
The state statutes prescribed the
scheme of distribution, and, if the meaning df those statutes
was disputable, the construction put upon them by the state
courts was binding upon the Circuit Court.
Our inquiry is, therefore, restricted to the question whether
the Circuit Court correctly applied the statute law of Pennsylvania as interpreted by the courts of that State.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in Brenneman's .Appeal, 40 Penn. St. 115, construed the statute law, as it then
stood, as preferring first cousins to the entire exclusion of
second cousins, and this case was approved in the subsequent
case of Rayes' Appeal, 89 Penn. St. 256. Some statutory
changes were made in the law, but, in the recent case of
Rogers' Appeal, 131 Penn. St. 382, where the opposite view
of the case was presented by the same counsel who represents
the appellants in the present appeal, in an argument termed by
that court ingenious and able, it was held that Brenneman's
Appeal should not be overruled or even modified.
The court below, therefore, in sustaining the claim of the
first, to the exclusion of the second, cousins, followed the law
as construed by the state Supreme Court.
The decree of the Circust Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded wth nstiutons to enter a decree n favor
of those citizens of other States than Pennsylvania,who

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion

Shiras, J., Fuller, C. J.

have petittoned the Circuit Court for relief, and who are
first cousins of the decedent,for their shares of the estate
other than the real estate described n the declaration of
trust,the amount of such sharesbeing determinedby thefact
thatfirst cousinsonly imherit, and an order that they recover
from the admminstratorsuch sums thusfound to be due. No
decree will be entered m favor of the two corporationsnamed
sn thefirst paragraph,and none m favor of the partses to
the suqt who are citizens of the State of Pennsylvania.
MP.
JUSTICE,

JUSTICE SHIRAS,

with whom concurred THE CHIEF

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the judgment of the court, or in
the reasoning used to support it.
If it be true, ds is argued m the opinion, that, in the case of
an administration of the estate of a decedent by proceedings
in the probate court of a State, the possession of the assets by
the administrator is the possession of the court, and such
assets, as to custody and control, are to be deemed to be n
gremso legis, so as to bring the case within the doctrine of
Covell v HZeyman, 111 U S. 176, and kindred cases, then it
would follow, as I think, that the plea of the administrator,
wherein he set up the pendency of the proceedings in the orphans' court of the State as a bar to the bill of complaint, ought
to have been sustained. Between the granting of the letters of
admimstration, and the final distribution of the fund realized
by the administration there is no point of time when the jurisdiction and possession of the state court change their character, and hence, if it be the law that the possession and control
of the administrator is that of the court appointing hin,
within the meaning of the cases cited by the majority, there
can be no point of time or stage of the proceedings between
their inception and conclusion when the process of another
court can be legitimately invoked to take from the state court
its power of control and decisioh.
In this view of the case, citizens of States other than that
having possession and control of the estate through its officer

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Dissenting Opinion. Shiras, J., Fuller, C. J.

must, like the home residents, assert their claims in the state
court, and if their claims have a Federal character, and if
the state courts should disregard that feature of their rights,
the remedy would he found in an ultimate appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States.
But it is certain that such a view of this question cannot
prevail without reversing a long line of decisions, of which
.Payne v .Hook, 'I Wall. 425, may be cited as an early, and
Borer v Chapman, 119 U S. 587, as a recent case and in
which this court has held that the jurisdiction conferred on
the Federal court by the Constitution and laws of the United
States extends to controversies arising in the distribution of
estates of decedents, where such jurisdiction is invoked by
citizens of other States than that of the domicile, notwithstanding the peculiar structure of the local probate system.
The logic of the opinion of the majority, as I understand it,
seens to require a reversal of the action of the court below in
overruling the administrator's plea, setting up that he was an
officer of the state court, proceeding in the due and regular
performance of his duties as such officer.
As, however, the opinion refrains from accepting this conclusion, though apparently rendered necessary by its own
reasoning, the next questions that arise are as to those particulars in which the opinion reverses the decree of the court
below
Having conceded that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
had duly attached under a bill in equity, brought by citizens
of another State, alleging legitimate matters of controversy
arising out of the distribution of ihe decedent's estate, the
opinion of the majority proceeds to consider the propriety of
the action of the court below in the exercise of that jurisdiction.
The matters of controversy whidh formed the subject of the
bill of complaint were two. The first was as to the legal
effect of that provision of the will of the decedent which
devised the proceeds of certain real estate, situated in the
city of Pittsburgh, in equal shares to the "Home of the Friendless" and the "Home for Aged Protestant Destitute

OCTOBER -TER I, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Shiras, J., Fuller, C. J.

Women," two charitable institutions organized under the
laws of the State of Pennsylvania. As the decedent left
no husband, children, brothers, or sisters, but certain first
cousins and second cousins, a dispute arose whether both
these classes were entitled to share in the distribution of
the estate, and this formed the second subject matter of the
bill.
In respect to the first matter, the court below held that,
while the will of the decedent could not operate as a testamentary disposition of the real estate in, question, because
such will had not been executed in conformity with certain
statutory requirements, yet that it constituted a valid declaration of a trust, under which tlte two charitable institutions
were entitled to the proceeds of the real estate.
The controversy between the two classes of cousins the
court resolved in favor of the first cousins, following, in so
doing, the construction put upon the Pennsylvama intest'ate
laws by the Supreme Court of that State.
This disposition by the court below of the two questions
before it is approved by this court, but, in the opinion of the
majority, the court below erred in including in the scope of
its final decree all the parties before it, and in not restricting
its decree to an adjudication of the case so far as the citizens
of States other than Pennsylvama were concerned.
Be it observed that all the parties concerned in the matters
in controversy were before the Circuit Court. The administrator, the two charitable institutions, and all the individuals
constituting both classes of cousins were parties plaintiff and
defendant in the suit, and none of them, either in the court
below or in this court, objected to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, except the administrator, and his plea to the
jurisdiction had been rightfully, as is admitted by the majority opinion, overruled.
In such a state of facts, why was not the action of the court
fully warranted in awarding a decree finally establishing the
rights of the parties before it 9
There is force and logical consistency in the position that
the settlement of a decedent's estate is not a suit at law or in

BYERS v. McAULEY.
Dissenting Opinion

Shiras, J., Fuller, C. J.

equity, but that such an estate constitutes a res, as to which

the jurisdiction of the probate court, when it once attaches, is
exclusive.
The position of the court below in exercising its jurisdiction
to the extent of final determination and enforcement is likewise consistent with reason, and, as I think, with the doctrine
of our previous cases.
But the conclusion of the majority m the present case, requiring the court below to shorten its arm and to dismiss
parties who were before it, assenting to its jurisdiction, is one
that I cannot accept.
Let us see to what consequences such a doctrine will lead,
and no better case than the one m hand is needed to illustrate
its possible consequences.
The Federal court having held that the will of the decedent
was efficacious as an acknowledgment of a valid trust, of
course the real estate, which formed the subject of the trust,
was withdrawn from the operation of the intestate law, and
was declared to be the property of the cestums que trustent.
From this it follows that the rest of the estate is to be
equally divided among the first cousins, who are held to be
entitled to it. Here we have a consistent decree that binds
all the world, for all concerned were before the court, and
their contentions were all heard and considered. The adninistrator had no official or personal concern in the questions
mooted. The suggestion that he would not be protected by
obeying the decree of the Circuit Court from his responsibility to the orphans' court, which had appointed hin, has no
force. If the decree of the Circuit Court were declared valid
by this court, of course that decision would, involving as it
does a question of the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, be
obligatory upon the state court, and a perfect protection to
the administrator in carrying it into effect. There may be
some foundation for criticism in the action of the court below
in going behind the account that the admiunstrator had filed
in the orphans' court, and in subjecting him to verify his
account before a master, but if this were error it did not
affect the final decree, inasmuch as the account of the admanVOL. CXLIX-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Shiras, J., Fuller, C. J.

istrator, as filed in the orphans' court, was approved and confirmed without change by the master.
But out of the decree recommended by the majority opinion all kinds of confusion and uncertainty may arise. The
state courts may take a different view of the will of the decedent, and decline to find in it a valid declaration of a trust.
In that event the amount of the estate would be increased by
the proceeds of the sale of the real estate thus added to the
fund for distribution. The citizens of States other than Pennsylvama, the extent of whose rights to participate in the fund
had already been determined, and, perhaps satisfied, under
the decree of the Circuit Court, could not avail themselves of
such action of the state courts. Consequently the first cousins
resident iu Pennsylvania would receive larger shares of the
estate than those received by the first cousins in other States,
and thus inequality would arise.
Again, if the state courts should happen to change their
views as to the proper construction of the intestate law, and
hold that second cousins were entitled to participate equally
with first cousins, then the second cousins who were citizens
of other States would, under the decree of the Federal court
binding upon them, receive nothing, while the second cousins
living in Pennsylvania would participate. So, too, it is
entirely possible, under the division of jurisdiction recommended by the majority opinion, that all of the first cousins
might be citizens of other States, and second cousins only be
residents of Pennsylvama. Then, as the decree of the Circuit
Court gave the estate only to first cousins, and as such decree
would be forthwith enforceable, it might result that, when
the state court reached an adjudication in favor of the second
cousins, there would be nothing left in which they could participate. Many other absurd consequences, not far fetched,
but likely to occur, could be readily suggested, if the novel
proposition of dividing jurisdiction should prevail.
I submit that the error in the reasoning of the majority
opinion is found in the latent assumption that the citizens of
Pennsylvania have no rights in the Federal courts in Pennsylvania. The latter are treated as if they were courts only

BYERS v. MoAULEY.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, J., Fuller, C. J.

intended for the advantage of citizens of other States. Yet
we know that, admittedly, citizens of Pennsylvania have the
right to resort, as parties complainant, to the Federal courts
to enforce important rights and interests -such as arise, for
instance, out of the patent laws. So, too, as I understand it,
when citizens of Pennsylvania have been brought into the
Circuit Court of the United States, as parties defendant to a
suit by citizens of another State, they have a right and interest in the decree of the court in their favor. The right of the
foreign citizens is not to have the Federal court decide in their
favor, but merely to have the controversy heard and deterined by the Federal tribunal. The citizens of Pennsylvania
who have been brought into the Federal court have a right
and interest in the decision, which, as it would have been conclnsive if against them, so it must be conclusive if in their
favor. The "Home for the Friendless" and the "Home for
Aged Protestant Women" should not, after a decision has
been made in their favor, in a suit where all concerned were
parties, be turned out of the Federal court to wage, in another
tribunal, with the same parties, the same question. Nor
should the second cousins, resident in Pennsylvania, after having consented to submit- their claims to adjudication in the
Circuit Court, be permitted, as against the same parties, to
try a second fall in the state court.
The apprehension is expressed in the opinion of the majority that the principles upon which the court below proceeded,
in adjudicating finally upon the parties and questions before
it, would lead to a conflict between the courts, Federal and
state, and subject the administrator to a divided duty
If the previous reasoning is not altogether wrong, it will be
readily seen that, on the contrary, a conflict between the
State and Federal courts will be brought about by an attempt
to divide between them the jurisdiction and decision of the
same subjects of litigation, and that the "divided duty "
which will perplex the administrator will be that of having to
obey two courts instead of one.
To conclude either the plea of the administrator, setting
up the jurisdiction of the orphans' court, as having already

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion

Shiras, J., Fuller, C. J.

attached, and as being, therefore, exclusive, ought to have
been sustained, or the course of the court below, in dealing
with the subjects and parties before it, by a final decree, not
to be interfered with or thwarted, as between the same parties,
by any other court, should be affirmed.
Jurisdiction has been defined by this court, in Untted States
v Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 709, to be "the power to hear and
determine a cause." In Ober v Gallagher,93 U S. 199, 206,
it was said that a Circuit Court "having obtained rightful
jurisdiction of the parties and the subject matter of the action
for one purpose, the court will make its jurisdiction effectual
for complete relief."
"fJut.dicto est yotestas de publico introducta cumrn necessetate jurtsdicendi." 10 Rep. 73. Jurisdiction is the power
introduced for the public good, with the necessity of expounding the law
" Jurt efectus -n executsone constitt." Co. Litt. 289. The
effect of law consists in execution.
I am unable to give my adhesion to a doctrine under which,
in the distribution of the estate of a decedent, parties bearing
the same relation to it shall or may receive different treatment
as they may happen to be citizens of one State or another in
our Federal Union. The rights of all parties should be measured by the same yard stick. And when, as in the present
case, all persons concerned in the distribution of an estate
have been duly made parties to a suit in equity in the Circuit
Court of the United States by a bill bringing into adjudication all the questions between such persons, and their several
contentions have been heard and considered, the decree of
such court ought to operate as a decision final between the
parties and as to the matters in controversy
I think the decree of the court below ought to be affirmed,
and am authorized to say that the Chief Justice concurs in
that conclusion, and in this dissent.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON, not having heard the argument, did

not take part in the decision.

