OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

DAHL v. ItAUNUEIM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 85. Submitted November 7,1889.-Decided November 25,1889.

An applicant for a placer patent, who has complied with all the proceedings
essential for the issue of a patent for his location, but whose patent has
not issued, may maintain an action to quiet title against a person assertmg title to a portion of the placer location under a subsequent location
of a lode claun.
If on the trial of such an action the court instruct the jury that if they
believe that the premises were located by the grantors and predecessors
in interest of the plaintiff as a placer mining claim in accordance with
law and they continued to hold the premises until conveyed to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff continued to hold them up to the time of the application of a patent therefor, and at the time of the application there was
no known lode or vein within the boundaries of the premises claimed,
and there is a general verdict for the plaintiff, the jury must be deemed
to have found that the lode claimed by the defendant did not exist when
the plaintiff's application for a patent was filed.
'When a person applies for a placer patent in the manner prescribed by law
and all the proceedings in regard to publication and otherwise are had
thereunder which are required by the statutes of the United States, and
no adverse claims are filed or set up, and it appears that the ground has
been surveyed and returned by the Surveyor General to the local land
office as mineral land, the question whether it is placer ground is conclusively established'and is not open to litigation by private parties seeking
to avoid the effect of the proceedings.
The rulings upon a motion for a new trial are not open to consideration in
this court.
AT LAW, to quiet title. Verdict for the plaintiff and judgment on the verdict. The defendant sued out this writ of
error. The case is stated in the opinion.

X2r William H Do Wi,
his brief.

for plaintiff in error, submitted on

No appearance for defendant in error.
MRh. JUSTICE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to quiet the title of the plaintiff below to
certain placer mining ground, forty acres m extent, situated

DA TTTv. RAUNHEI1.
Opinion of the Court.

in Silver Bow County, Montana, of which he claims to be the
owner, and in a portion of which the defendant claims to have
some right and interest, and for which portion he has applied
for a patent. The plaintiff asserts title under a location of the
ground as a placer claim on the 22d of February, 1880, by
parties from whom he purchased.
The defendant asserts title to a portion of that ground,
being three acres and a fraction of an acre in extent, as a lode
claim under a location by the name of the Betsey Dahl Lode,
made subsequently to the location of the premises as placer
mning ground, and subsequently to the application by the
plaintiff for a patent therefor. That application was made on
the 16th of J uly, 1881, and the register of the local land office
caused notice of it to be published as required for the period of
sixty days. All the other provisions of the law on the subject
were also complied with. See Smelthng Company v .nemp,
104 U. S. 636, 653. To this application no adverse claim to
any portion of the ground was fied by the defendant or any
other person, and the statute provides that in such case it shall
be assumed that the applicant is entitled to a patent upon certain prescribed payments, and that no adverse claim exists.
The statute also declares that thereafter no objection of third
parties to the issue of a patent shall be heard, except it be
shown that the applicant has failed to comply with the requirements of the law No such failure was shown by the defendant. He is, therefore, precluded from calling in question the
location of the claim, or its character as placer ground.
The only position on which the defendant can resist the pretensions of the plaintiff is that the placer ground, for a patent
of which he applied, does not embrace the lode claim. The
effect to be given to that position depends upon the answer to
the question whether at the time of his application any vein
or lode was known to exist within the boundaries of the placer
claim, which was not included in his application. Section 2333
of the Revised Statutes provides that when one applies for a
placer patent who is at the time in the possession of a vein or
lode included within its boundaries, he must state that fact,
and then on payment of the sum required for a vein or lode

OCTOBER TERTN,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

and twenty-five feet on each side of it at five dollars an acre,
and two dollars and a half an acre for the placer claim, a
patent will issue to him covering both the placer claim and the
lode. But it also provides that, where a vein or lode is known
to exist at the time within the boundaries of a placer claim,
the application for a patent, which does not also include an
application for the vein or lode, will be construed as a conclusive declaration that the clainant of the placer claim has no
right of possession to the vein or lode, and also that where
the existence of a vein or lode in a placer claim is not known
at the time of the application for a patent, that instrument
will convey all valuable mineral and other deposits within its
boundaries.
It does not appear in the present case that a patent of the
United States has been issued to the plaintiff, but it appears
that he has complied with all the proceedings essential for the
issue of such a patent. He is therefore the equitable owner of
the mining ground, and the government holds the premises
in trust for him to be delivered upon the payments specified.
We accordingly treat him, in so far as the questions involved
in this case are concerned, as though the patent had been
delivered to him. Being entitled to it, he has a right to ask
a determination of any claim asserted against his possession
which may throw doubt upon his title.
When it can be said that a lode or vein is known to exist in
a placer mining claim within the meaning of section 2333 of
the Revised Statutes, was considered to some extent in Reynolds v 'on Silver finmng Co., 116 U. S. 687. and Iron Silver 7finsng Co. v Reynolds, 124 U. S. 374, and, also, in _'Toyes
v -Mantle,127 U. S. 348, 353, and some of the difficulties in
giving an answer that would be applicable to all cases were
there stated. In the present case no difficulty arises, for the
question was left to the jury and decided by them. The court
instructed them to the effect that if they believed that the
premises were located by the grantors and predecessors in interest of the plaintiff as a placer mining claim in accordance
with law, and they continued to hold the premises until conveyed to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff continued to hold them

DAHL v. RAUNHEIT£.
Opinion of the Court.

up to the time of his application for a patent therefor, and at
the time of such application there was no known lode or vein
within the boundaries of the premises claimed, their verdict
should be for the llaintiff.
The jury having found a general verdict for the plaintiff,
must be deemed to have found that no such lode as claimed
by the defendant existed when the application of the plaintiff
for a patent was filed. We may also add, to what is thus concluded by the verdict, that there was no evidence of any lode
existing within the boundaries of his claim, either when the
plaintiff made his application or at any time before. The
discovery by the defendant of the Dahl lode, two or three
hundred feet outside of those boundaries, does not, as observed
by the court below, create any presumption of the possession
of a vein or lode within those boundaries, nor, we may add,
that a vein or lode existed within them.
It is earnestly objected to the title of the plaintiff that he
did not present any proof that the mining ground claimed by
him was placer ground. It appeared that the ground had
been surveyed and returned by the Surveyor General of Montana to the local land office as mineral land, and the defendant,
in asserting the possession of a lode upon it admits its mineral
character. That it was placer ground is conclusively established in this controversy, against the defendant, by the fact
that no adverse claim was asserted by him to the plaintiff's
application for a patent of the premises as such ground. That
question is not now open to litigation by private parties seeking to avoid the effect of the plaintiff's proceedings.
Several questions presented by the plaintiff in error in his
brief we do not notice, because they arise only upon the motion made by hun for a new trial. The rulings upon such a
motion are not open to consideration in this court.
Judgrent afvmed.

