SCOTLAND COUINTY v. HILL.
Statement of the Case.

SCOTLAND COUNTY v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOl THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
"To.29. Argued April16,17, 1889.N

Decided November 4,1889.

The negotiable security of a municipal corporation, invalid in the hands of
the original holder by reason of an irregularity in its issue to winch he
was a party, but winch becomes valid m the hands of an innocent purchaser for value without knowledge or notice of the iregularity, remains valid when acquired by another purchaser for value, who was no
party to the irregularity, but who, at the time of his purchase, has knowledge of the infirmity, and of a pending suit against the original holder
and others to have the whole issue declared invalid by reason thereof.
The litigations respecting the Scotland County bonds in the state courts
and in the courts of the United States renewed.
In the absence of a provision to the contrary, overdue coupons bear interest
at the legal rate in the place where they are payable.

Tnis action was commenced in the year 1876 to recover on
coupons issued by the county of Scotland, in Missouri, in payment of a subscription to the stock of the Missouri, Iowa and
Nebraska Railway Company Answer was made. In 1879
an amended complaint was filed, and, issue being joined, such
proceedings were had in the cause that judgment was entered
for the plaintiff. To this judgment the defendant sued out a
writ of error. Argument on this was had at October term
1884, which resulted m the remand of the cause for a new
trial (112 U S.183). After the remand an amended answer
was filed. Issue was joined and trial had, which resulted m a
verdict for the plaintiff for $46,944, and judgment on the
verdict. To this judgment the defendant sued out this writ
of error. The case is stated as follows by the court in its
opinion
This writ of error bnngs up for renew a judgment against
the county of Scotland, in the State of issouri, for the
amount of certain coupons of bonds, bearing date September
1, 1870, and purporting to have been issued by that county to
the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, a cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

poration created by the consolidation of the Alexandria and
Nebraska City Railroad Company, of Missouri, (formerly
known as the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company,)
with the Iowa Southern Railway Company, of Iowa. The
coupons are payable to bearer, at the Farmers' iLoan and
Trust Company, New York, while the bonds are payable to
.the above consolidated company, or bearer, at the same place,
on the 31st of December, 1895, with interest thereon from
December 31, 1870, payable annually in that city, at the rate
of eight per cent per annum. Each bond recites that it is
issued under and pursuant to an order of the county court, for
subscription to the stock of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railway Company, "as authorized by an act of the General
Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled 'An act to incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company,'
approved February 9, 1857."
It appeared in proof that the county court, in conformity
with the petition of taxpayers and residents, made an order,
on the 9th of August, 1870, for the subscription of $200,000
to the stock of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway
Company, payable in coupon bonds of the above kind, and at
the same time designated an agent with authority to make
the subscription upon the books of the company, to represent
the county at the meetings of stockholders, and to receive
dividends on its stock. The order stated that the subscription
was upon certain specified terms and conditions, among which
was one providing for the delivery to the railway company
of $100,000 of the bonds when the road was "graded, bridged
and tied, the track laid, and the cars running thereon from
Alexandria, IMissouri, to a permanent depot, located within
one-half mile of the court-house in Memphis," and for the
delivery of the remaining $100,000 of bonds when the road
was completed from Memphis to the west or north line of
the county and the cars were running over it. By the same
order the county attorney was directed to have the bonds
printed, the presiding justice of the county to sign them, and
the clerk to make proper attestation of his signature.
At the same time Charles Mety was appointed trustee for

SCOTLAND COUNTY v. HILL.
Statement of the Case.

the county, and charged, in that capacity, with the duty of
receiving the bonds from the county clerk as soon as they were
issued, and of delivering them to the railway company, in
exchange for stock, upon its complying with the conditions
specified in the order for the subscription. The trustee was
required to give bond in the sum of. three hundred thousand
dollars, for the faithful performance of his trust.
On the 11th of September, 1871 -the road being then
nearly completed to Memphis, the county seat -Levi Wagner
and other taxpayers and citizens brought a suit in the Circuit
Court of Scotland County to perpetually enjoin M ety from
delivering the bonds or coupons to the railway company It
was alleged, as a principal ground for such relief, that the
subscription made by the county, to pay which the bonds had
been executed, was without proper legal authority, and, therefore, null and void. The defendants in that suit were Mety,
the county trustee and custodian of the bonds, Fullerton,
county treasurer, Dawson, Cooper and Marguis, justices of
the county, and sitting as the county court at the time the
subscription was made, and the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railway company A few days prior to September 20, 1871,
Mety went to Warsaw, Illinois, taking with him $100,000 of
the bonds, to be there delivered to the railway company,
upon the completion of the road to Memphis. He and the
justices of the county court had then heard of the institution
of the Wagner suit, and he went to Warsaw, under the direction of the members of that body, in order to evade the service
upon him of the proposed injunction. While there he received from Dawson and Cooper, a majority of the justices
composing the county court, an official communication, under
date of September 20, 1871, in these words. "1The iron is laid
on the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway to the depot
and the building is up. The company having complied with
all the requirements, you will please deliver them the first
hundred thousand dollars of the county's subscription and
receive stock for the same." He complied with this order by
delivering the bonds, at Warsaw, on the same day, taking
from the company, as suggested by the justices, its bond

OCTOBER TERMI,

1889.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

indemnifying him against all damages, costs, expenses, etc.,
which he, as trustee for the county, might recur "by reason
of certain injunction suits now pending m the Scotland County
Circuit Court." On the 11th of December, 1871, the county
court, by an order entered- upon its record, so modified the
previous order of August 9, 1870, as to authorize Mety to
deliver to the company the second instalment of $100,000 of
bonds, upon the execution to hin, as trustee, and to the
county, of an indemnifying bond containing certain specified
provisions. Such an obligation was immediately executed by
the company, and the second instalment of bonds was thereupon
delivered to it by the court while in session at the county seat.
The Wagner suit was taken, by change of venue, to the
Circuit Court of Shelby County, Missouri, by which a final
decree was rendered on the 2d of June, 1874, declaring the
bonds void for the want of legal authority in the Scotland
County Court to make the subscription of stock in the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, and ordering
them to be surrendered for cancellation. This decree was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Missouri, at its October
term, 1878. That judgment of affirnance proceeded, mainly,
upon the ground that, as the privilege given, by its charter of
1857, to the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company,
afterwards the Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company, (Laws of Missouri, 1865-6, 222,) of having municipal subscriptions without a previous vote of the people, was
not exercised prior to the formation, by consolidation, in 1870,
of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, such
privilege passed, if at all, to the consolidated company, subject
to the prohibition in the state constitution of 1865 against
municipal subscriptions to corporations or compames, except
upon the previous sanction of two-thirds of the qualified
voters at a regular or special election for that purpose. Wagner v .3ety, 69 Missouri, 150. That ruling, the court said,
was in harmony with its previous decision in StaM eo rel.
WTi1on v Garroutte, 67 Missouri, 445.

A & tenry A. Cunnmnghan for plaintiff in error.

SCOTLAND COUNTY v. HILL.
Opmion of the Court.

.Mr F T Eugkes for defendant in error.
all was with him on the brief.

.Mrb J H. Over-

MR. JUSTICE HAirLAw delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the case as above reported, he continued.

The question of power in the county court to subscribe to
the stock of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, without a previous vote of the people, and to issue bonds
in payment of its subscription, was directly presented and determined, upon full consideration, m County of ScotZand v
Thonas, 91 'U. S. 682; decided in 1876. The coupons there
in suit were of the same issue of bonds as those from which
the coupons in the present suit were detached. It is true that
that case was determined upon demurrer to the complaint.
But that fact does not weaken the force of the decision, so far
as it bears upon the question of legal authority in the county
court to make the subscription. The record and opinion in
,that case show that it was stipulated between the parties that
the question of subscribing to the stock of the Missouri, Iowa
and Nebraska Railway Company had never been submitted to
a vote of the qualified voters of Scotland County, and that, in
determining the demurrer, the court should consider that fact,
as if it had been averred in the complaint. It was also agreed
that the court should consider as facts admitted the articles of
consolidation between the Iowa Southern Railway Company
and the Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company,
and the above orders of the county court of Scotland County
It was held that the privilege given to the Alexandria and
Bloomfield Railroad Company, by its charter of 1857, of receiving county subscriptions, was not extinguished by the subsequent consolidation in 18'(0 of that company with other
companies, but passed with its other rights and privileges into
the new condition of existence arising from such consolidation,
that, in making the subscription in that case, which is the
identical subscription here in question, the county court acted
"as the representative authority of the county itself, officially
invested with all the discretion necessary to be exercised under

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the change of circumstances brought about by the consolidation ;" that the subscription was binding upon the county,
and that the bonds issued in payment were valid obligations.
It was also distinctly ruled, in accordance with County of
Callaway v Foster, 93 U. S. 567, and with previous decisions
of the Supreme Court of :Missouri, that the prohibition in the
state constitution of 1865, of municipal subscriptions to the
stock of, or loans of credit to, compames, associations or corporations, without the previous assent of two-thirds of the
qualified voters at a regular or special election, had the effect
to limit the future exercise of legislative power, but did not take
away any authority granted before that constitution went.
into operation. The doctrines of that case were reaffirmed in
County of Henry v Nicolay, 95 U. S.619, 624, (1877;) County
of Schuyler v Thomas, 98 U S.169, 173, (1878;) County of
Cass v Gillett, 100 U. S. 585, 592, (1879;) and County of Balls
v Douglass,105 U5 S.728, 731, (1881)- all cases arismg in the
State of Missouri, and relating to mumcipal bonds, issued
under legislative authority granted before the adoption ot
the constitution of 1865. See also -fMenasha v Ilazard, 102
UT. S. 81, Green County v Conness, 109 U. S. 104, and Livngston County v Portsmouth Bank, 128 U. S. 102. In Oounty
of Rails v Douglass attention was called to State ex rel. Wilson v Garroutte, 67 Missouri, 445, and State ex rel. Barlow v.
Dallas County, 72 Missouri, 329, holding views different as
well from those announced by this court in the cases above
cited, as those previously announced by the state court in
State v Macon County Court, 41 Missouri, 453, Kansas City
d-c. Railroac Co. v Alderman, 47 Missouri, 349, Smith v Clark
County, 54 Missouri, 58, 70, and State v County Court of Sullivan, 51 Missouri, 522. But this court declined to reconsider its former decisions to the prejudice of bonafide holders
of bonds issued prior to the change of decision in the state
court. The bonds, the coupons of which are here in suit,
were all issued in 1871, at which time the highest court of
Missouri held that the above constitutional provision, as to
municipal subscriptions or the loaning of municipal credit to
corporations without a previous vote of the people, was in-

SCOTLAND COUNTY v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

tended, (to use the language of County of Balls v Douglass,)
"as a limitation on future legislation only, and did not operate
to repeal enabling acts m existence when the constitution took
effect."
We pass to the consideration of the controlling question in
the case, namely, whether Hill's rights, as a holder of these
coupons for himself and others, are affected by the final decree
in the suit instituted in the state court by Wagner and others.
At the first trial of the present action, the county offered
to read in evidence the record of the Wagner suit in support
of its plea averring, among other things, that Hill, and each
Trevious holder of these coupons, had full, actual notice of the
institution and object of that suit. It also offered to read in
evidence the indemnifying bond of September 21, 1871, and,
also, to prove by iM]etvy, the trustee of the county, that he *had
actual notice of the pendency of the Wagner suit, at the time
he delivered the bonds to the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railway Company
There was also an offer to prove that
the railway company "and each subsequent holder" received
the bonds with actual notice of the pendency of that suit.
The Circuit Court excluded all of this evidence. This court
held that such exclusion was improper, and for that reason
the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded for a new
trial. Scotland County v Hill, 112 U S. 183.
Chief Justice Waite, delivering the opinion of the court,
said "The suit was about the bonds, and tne liability of the
county thereon. The decree was in accordance with the
prayer of the bill, and certainly concluded both Afety 1 and
the railroad company After the rendition of this decree, the
company could not sue and recover on the bonds, because, as
between the company and the county, it had been directly
adjudicated that the bonds were void and of no binding effect
on the county But it is equally well settled that the decree
binds not only Mety and the company, but all who bought
the bonds after the suit was begun, and who were chargeable
I In the original opinion of the Chief Justice, this name is uniformly
printed "Metz." Tis error is followed in the report of the case in 112
U.S.
VOL. CXxx-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

with notice of its pendency, or of the decree which was rendered. The case of County of Warren v .Marcy, 97 U. S. 96,
decides that purchasers of negotiable securities are not chargeable with constructve notice of the pendency of a suit affecting the title or validity of the securities, but it has never
been doubted that those who buy such securities from litigating parties, with actual notice of the suit, do so at their peril,
and must abide the result the same as the parties from whom
they got their title. Here the offer was to prove actual notice,
not only to the plaintiff when he bought, but to every other
buyer and holder of the bonds from the time they left the
hands of Mfety, .pending the suit, until they came to him. Certainly, if these facts had been established, the defence of the
county, under its fourth plea, would have been sustained, and
this whether an injunction had been granted at the time the
bonds were delivered by Mety or not. The defence does not
rest on the preliminary injunction, but on the final decree by
which the rights of the parties were fixed and determined."
The court also said "It is a matter of no importance
whether the decision in the Wagner suit was in conflict with
that of this court in Scotland County v Thomas, supra, or not.
The question here is not one of authority but of adjudication.
If there has been an adjudication which binds the plaintiff,
that adjudication, whether it was right or wrong, concludes him
until it has been reversed or otherwise set aside in some direct
proceeding for that purpose. It cannot be disregarded any more
in the courts of the United States than in those of the State."
It appears from the bill of exceptions taken at the last trial,
resulting in the judgment now before us for review, that the
county sought by evidence introduced in its behalf to support
the charge of actual notice of the Wagner suit upon the part,
as well of Hill, as of each previous holder of the bonds the
coupons of which are here in suit. There was proof by the
plaintiff tending to show that the bonds delivered by Mety to
the railroad company were passed by that corporation to the
company that built the road, in payment for construction, and
that they were sold, for value, by the latter to various parties
in different parts of the country, who had no notice whatever

SCOTLAN D COUNTY v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.
a

of the institution or object of the Wagner suit. There was
also evidence tending to show that the parties owning the coupons immediately before they were delivered to Hill for himself, and for others whom he represented, were all purchasers
for value, without notice of the injunction suit, or of any infirmity in the bonds.
The county asked an instruction to the effect that "if at the
time or times of making purchases of either of the coupons in
this suit declared upon, William Hill, the plaintiff, had actual
knowledge of the pendency of or judgment in the case of Zem
J Wagner et al. v O arles .Mety et al., and if the jury so find, they
are instructed that as to any such coupon purchased by plaintiff, whether for himself or as agent for other persons, no
recovery of judgment can be herein had." The court refused
to so instruct the jury, but instructed them, in substance, that
the ownership of the coupons by a prior holder under such
circumstances as would protect that holder against any defence
by the county, entitled Hill to recover, even if he, when afterwards purchasing for himself or others, had knowledge of the
pendency of the Wagner suit. That this was the meaning of
the court is quite clear from the following extracts from its
charge to the jury "This paper is valid m the hands of a party
who received it for value without actual notice of the pendency
of the suit of Wagner and others, but if he and each intermediate party from the first delivery of these bonds and coupons also had notice of such suit or other infirmity, then no
recovery can be had.
If the obligations sued on were
duly executed, as above mentioned, and delivered by said
Mety, and were thereafter purchased for value by the plaintiff
from persons who had acquired the same for value without
notice of said suit or of any fraud in the execution and delivery of the same, as above stated, then as to such obligations
the plaintiff is entitled to recover. On the other hand, if the
plaintiff and each of the persons through whom he derived
title had actual notice of said Wagner suit, or of the delivery
of said obligations by Mlety to escape said suit, known to be
about to be instituted, then as to such of said obligations there
can be no recovery
One link broken in the chain
breaks the chain."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

Opmion of the Court.
0

As there was no evidence tending to show that Hill was a
party to the scheme devised by the county officers and the
railway company for the delivery of the bonds to the latter
before the injunction suit should be ripe for a decree, we are of
opinion that the court did not err m its instructions to the jury
The bonds were delivered to the railway company at the
office of the bank in Warsaw, Illinois, of which Hill was president. And it is, perhaps, true, that Hill had then heard of
the Wagner suit, and knew or suspected that Mety's purpose
m bringing the bonds to Warsaw was to deliver them to the
company before the injunction could be served upon him. But
he had no connection with the conspirators, nor did he or
any of the parties represented by hin have, at that time, any
interest in the coupons. It is said that the construction company received the bonds with actual notice, upon the part of
one of its chief officers, of the injunction suit. But there can
be no claim that any of the holders of the coupons, intermediate between the construction company and Hill, had any such
notice. Be that as it may, the question as to such notice was
properly submitted to the jury
The principles of law by which this question must be determined are well settled. In Comm-isswners of Douglas County
v Bolles, 94: U. S. 101, which involved the rights of parties
claiming to be bona fide holders of certain municipal bonds,
issued to a railroad corporation, and by it passed to the contractor who built its track, the court, after observing that the
plaintiffs could call to their aid the fact that their predecessors
m ownership were 7onaftde purchasers, said "And still more,
the contractor for building the railroad received the bonds
from the county in payment for his work, either in whole or
in part, after his work had been completed. There is no pretence that he had notice of anything that should have made
hun doubt their validity Why was he not a bona fide purThe law is undoubted that every person
chaser for value
succeeding him in the ownership of the bonds is entitled to
stand upon his rights." In Cromwell v. County of Sac, 96
U. S. 51, 59, it was said that, with some exceptions that have
no. relevancy here, "the rule has been too long settled to be

SCOTLAND COUNTY v. HILL.
Opimon of the Court.

questioned now, that whenever negotiable paper has passed
into the hands of a party unaffected by previous infirmities,
its character as an available security is established, and itsholder can transfer it to others with the like immunity His
own title and right would be impaired, if any restrictions were
placed upon his power of disposition." So, in Roberts v Lane,
64 Maine, 108, 111, it was said that "if any intermediate holder
between the plaintiff and defendant took the note under such
circumstances as would entitle him to recover against the defendant, the plaintiff will have the same right, even though he
may have purchased when the note was overdue, or with a
knowledge of its infirmity, as between the original parties."
See, also, .Montclavr v Ramsdell, 107 U S. 147, 159, Porter
v Pittsburg Steel Co., 122 U S. 267, 283, .Mornyer v Cooper,
35 Iowa, 257, 260, .ost v Bender, 25 Michigan, 515, Byles
on Bills, 119, 124.
It is objected that there was error in allowing interest at
the rate of seven per cent upon the coupons after their maturity Such allowance was proper for the reason that the
coupons (which, as well as the bonds, were silent, as to the
rate of interest after maturity) were made payable m New
York, where the rate as then established by law was seven per
cent. Rev Stats. N. Y., 771, Part 2, c. 4, Title 3, § 1, Act of
June 20, 1879, Laws of 1879, c. 538, p. 598. In Bank of
loumville v Young, 37 Missouri, 398, 407, the rule was recognized that "interest is to be paid on contracts according to the
law of the place where they are to be performed, where interest is expressly or impliedly to be paid." Andrews v. Pond,
13 Pet. 65, 73, 77, 78, Story's Conflict of Laws, § 291. In respect to interest on the amount for which judgment was rendered, we are of opinion that the law of Missouri governs, and
the judgment must bear only six per cent interest. 1 Rev
Stats. Missouri, 1879, §§ 2723, 2725.
The judgrent of the court below s ajffrmed, to bear interest
fror the date of its renditon at the rate of smx _per cent
.per annum. The objection that some of the coupons sneluded = the present judgment were, in fact, encluded m
formerjudgments against the county, is without foundation.

