OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

DAIL v. XONTANA COPPER 'COMPANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTA.A.
No. 86. Submitted NIovember 7,1889;-Decided Nq'ovember 25,1889.

Dahl v. Raunhezm, ante, 260, affirmed and applied.
The objection that a corporation cannot sue in a Territorial Court, on the
ground that it does not appear that the corporation has complied with
the conditions imposed by a statute of the Territory upon its transacting business there, cannot be urged for the first time in tins court.

Tins case was argued with .Dahl v .RaunJhezm, ante, 260.
The case is stated in the opinion.
.. Willian, H. De Wfitt, for plaintiff in error, submitted on
his brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to quiet the title to certain placer mining
ground, twenty acres in extent. in Silver Bow County, iMontana, claimed by the plaintiff below, the -Montana Copper
Company, under a location made in March, 1879, against the
assertion of ownership by the- defendant to a portion of the
premises as a lode claim under a location made in March,
1881.
The plaintiff applied for a patent for its placer ground in
November, 1880, and notice of the application was published
by the register of the local land office, and all the other provisions of the statute required in such cases were complied
with. No adverse claim was filed by the defendant or any
one else during the period of publication. The Dahl lode
claim was not located until after that period had expired.
The defendant is therefore precluded from questioning the
right of the plaintiff to a patent for the premises, and, of
course, from objecting either to the location or its character

J

DAHL v. MONTANTA COPPER CO.

265

Opinion of the Court.

as placer ground. The only question open to hun in this controversy is whether the lode or vein claimed by hun was known
to exist at the date of the plaintiff's application, none having
been included in such application, and upon that question a
jury have passed, and found specially that no lode or vein was
then known to exist within the boundaries of the placer claim.
The case is similar in tns respect to the one just decided,
Dahi v Bcaunhezm, ante, 260. But the plaintiff in error endeavors to raise another question in this court, namely, as to
the competency of the Montana Copper Company, the plaintiff below, to do business in the Territory, and, consequently,
to maintain any suit respecting its property, because it does
not appear that it has complied with the conditions imposed
by the statute of the Territory to its transacting business
there. That statute, which was passed in July, 1819, provided
that all foreign corporations organized under the laws of any
State or Territory of the United States, or by virtue of any
special acts of the legislative assembly of such State or Territory, or of any foreign government, should, before doing business within the Territory, file in the office of its secretary and
in the office of the county recorder of the county wherein they
intend to carry on business, an authenticated copy of their
charter or certificate of incorporation, and also a statement
verified by their president and secretary, and attested by a
majority of the board of directors, showing
First. The name of such incorporation, and the location of
its principal office or place of business, without this Territory,
and, if it is to have any place of business or principal office
within this Territory, the location thereof.
Second. The amount of its capital stock.
Third. The amount of its capital stock actually paid in
money
Fourth. The amount of its capital stock paid in any other
way, and in what.
Fifth. The amount of the assets of the incorporation, and
of what the assets consist, with the actual cash value thereof.
Sixth. The liabilities of such incorporation, and, if any of its
indebtedness is secured, how secured, and upon what property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The statute also provided that such corporation or 3oint
stock company should file at the same time and in the same
offices a certificate under the signature of its president, or
other acting head, and its secretary, stating that the corporation had consented to be sued in the courts of the Territory
in all causes of action arising within it, and that service of
process might be made upon some person, a citizen of the
Territory, whose name and place of residence should be designated, and that such service should be taken and held to be as
valid to all intents and purposes as if made upon the company
in the State or Territory under the laws of which it was
organized.
The statute also provided a forfeiture of ten dollars a day
for every day in which such foreign corporation should, after
four months from the publication of the act, neglect to file the
statements and certificates mentioned, and declared that all
acts and contracts made by such incorporation or any agent
or agents, during the time it should fail and neglect to file the
statements and certificates, should be void and invalid as to
such corporation. In the present action the plaintiff alleges in
its complaint that it is a corporation created under the laws of
New York, doing business in Silver Bow County, in the Territory of Montana, and is the owner of the property in controversy The answer of the defendant does not deny its
incorporation, or its right to do business in that county, but
only its ownership of the property No question is therefore
raised oa the pleadings as to its competency to do business
within the Territory for want of compliance with the provisions of the territorial law The question at issue on the
pleadings and on the trial in the court below was confined to
the ownership of the mining ground. Without, therefore,
considering the validity and force of the provisions of that
law, (Congress having permitted corporations, whether formed
within or without that Territory, to explore for and hold mining claims on the public domain,
eJ~itEnley v Wheeler, 130
U. S. 630,) or whether if they are valid, any parties except
the government of the Territory can allege a disregard of
them, to defeat the title of the corporation to its property,

