OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Defendant in Error.

HILL v. SUMINER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
To. 763. Submitted October 21, 1889. -Decided

November 11,1889.

When a contract respecting property contains an agreement to be performed
by the owner of it when he shall " dispose of or sell it," it is obvious
that the words "dispose of" are not synonymous with the word "sell;"
and their meamng must be determined by considering the remainder of
the contract.
In this case an agreement by the owner of the property which formed the
sub3ect of the dispute that he would not dispose of or sell it, was held
to have been violated by a lease of it for a term of two years.

IN CONTRACT. Verdict for the plaintiff, and judgment on the
verdict. The defendant sued out this writ of error. The case
is stated in the opinion.

.ftp Thomas M. Patterson and .Mf Charles S. Thomas, for
plaintiff in error, cited Atwood v Clark, 2 Greenl. 249, -Hill
v. Hobart,16 Maine, 164, Shefleld v. Zord Orrery, 3 Atk. 282,
Pheps v ffarrs, 101 U S. 370, Uni-ted States v Gratiot, 14
Pet. 526, Dubuque v Miller, 11 Iowa, 583, MAiddleton Savtngs
Bank v. Dubuque, 15 Iowa, 394, Livingston v Stickles, 7 Hill,
253, Jackson v Silvernail, 15 Johns. 278, Jackson v Harmson, 17 Johns. 66, Edwards v Farmers' Insurance Co., 21
Wend. 466, -Iston v Schilling,42 N.Y 79, Crusoe v. Bagley,
3 Wilson, 234, S. C. 2 Win. B. 766, Doe v Hogg, 4:Dowl.
& iRyl. 226, Hargravev. Ring, 5 Iredell (Eq.) 430, Church v
Brown, 15 Yes. 258, Rogers v. Goodwin, 2 Mass. 475, Beard
v. Knox, 5 California, 252, S. C. 63 Am. Dec. 125, Nfichols
v. -Eaton,91 U. S. 716, ttill v. Tufts, 18 Pick. 455 , Pullman
Oar Co. v. .Missouri,Pacfio Railway, 3 McCrary, 645.

Mr L. C. Rockwell, for defendant in error, cited Sears v
Wrzght, 24 Maine, 278, .DeWoofe v French, 51 Maine, 420,
Crooker v Holmes, 65 Maine, 195,
fbsdell v Cunnigham,
22 Missouri, 124, Capron v Capron, 44 Vermont, 410, Niles
Works v Hershey, 35 Iowa, 340; Brannm v. Henderson, 12

HILL v. SUMNER.
Opinion of the Court.

B. Mon. 61, Haggzn v Williamson, 5 T. B. Mon. 9, Nvunez v
Dautell, 19 Wall. 560, Sthrling v .7Tattland, 5 B. & S. 840.
MR. JustiE

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado. The action was originally
brought by Mary J Sumner, the present defendant in error,
against David K. Hill, plaintiff in error, in the District Court
of Arapahoe County, in the State of Colorado, and was afterwards removed by Hill, on the ground of diverse citizenship,
into the Circuit Court of the United States.
It appears from the record that on and prior to the 12th day
of February, 1880, the defendant Hill and Edward R. Sumner,
and isson, Edward H. Sumnier, were the owners of a mine,
called the Buckeye Lode, situated on Fryer Hill, in the California mimng district, in the county of Lake and State of
Colorado, that the said Edward R. Sumner was the owner of
one-eighth and his son, Edward H. Sumner, the owner of another one-eighth, undivided, of this mine, of which Hill was
the owner of the remainder. It also appears that Hill was a
man of considerable means, which was not the case with the
others, that some work had been done upon the mine, and
money expended upon it, which had been advanced mainly by
Hill, that in this condition of affairs Edward R. Sumner sold
his one-eighth inthe mine to Hill, and took from Hill a written
obligation to pay him ten thousand dollars for it, inthe manner
prescribed by an instrument in writing, of which the following

isa copy
"This is to certify that Edward R. Sumner, of Leadville, State
of Colorado, has this day sold to me one undivided one-eighth
part of the Buckeye Lode, vein, mine, or deposit, situated on
Fryer Hill, in the California mining district, in the county of
Lake, in the State of Colorado, for the sum of ten thousand
dollars, to be paid as follows, to wit, ($1308.43,) one thousand
three hundred eight [-M] dollars cash in hand, the receipt of
which is hereby acknowledged.
"Second. To pay all expenses for and on behalf of Edward

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

R. Sumner upon one undivided one-eighth part of said mine
owned by Edward H. Sumner which have accrued since the first
day of February, A.D. 1880, and which may hereafter accrue
for sinling the shaft upon said mine, for all machinery purchased in sinking the shaft and in operating the same until pay
mineral shall have been reached.
"Third. To pay on behalf of said Edward R. Sumner, for
the benefit of Edward H. Sumner, owner of said one-eighth
interest of the whole of said mine, one-eighth part of all the
expenses for litigation regarding the title and the possession
thereof, or for trespasses which may be committed upon said
property from and after the date above written.
"Fourth. And to pay on behalf of the said Edward R.
Sumner one-eighth part of all other assessments, taxes and
expenses (meaning upon the one-eighth interest owned by
Edward Hl. Sumner, being independent of the one-eighth conveyed to me this day by said Edward R. Sumner) of every name
and nature which may justly accrue against said property, which
sum or sums of money, as well as all other sums of money
which may be advanced and paid out by me in pursuance of
this agreement, shall be applied by indorsement upon this contract by the said Edward El. Sumner or his assigns in payment
of the aforesaid sum of ten thousand dollars, as far as the same
shall go to the payment thereof.
"Fifth. And after deducting all the aforesaid sums of
money above mentioned I hereby agree to pay to the said
Edward R. Sumner or his order, the residue of the said ten
thousand dollars out of the first production of my interest in
said mine, so soon as the same shall be realized therefrom, and
if at any time I shall dispose of or sell one-eighth part of said
mining property, then and in that case the residue of said ten
thousand dollars shall become immediately due and payable to
the said Edward R. Sumner or his order. In no case am I to
pay out more than ten thousand dollars on behalf of said
Edward R. Sumner on the one-eighth interest of Edward H.
Sumner, including the $1308.43 mentioned as paid above.
"Witness my hand and seal this twelfth day of February,
A.D.

1880, at Chicago, Illinois.

"(Signed)

DAVID

K. HILL.

[Seal.]"

HILL v. SUMNER.
Opinion of the Court.

It seems from this paper pretty clear that Edward R. Sumner, in conveying his one-eighth, was anxious to secure the
other one-eighth, held by his son Edward H. Sumner, from
being lost by reason of his inability to pay such assessments
as might be made on it in the progress of developing the mine
and bringing it into profitable operation. It appears from the
record that Hill continued work upon the mine and received
credit upon this written contract until October 10, 1883, and
about that time he ceased to work upon it or to make any further effort to develop it. On July 29, 1885, Hill made a lease
of the mine to George A. Jenks, who had been agent of Hill in
the previous efforts to develop it. The following is a copy of
this lease
"This agreement of lease, made this 29th day of July, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-five,
between David K. Hill, of the city of Chicago, county of Cook,
and State of Illinois, and Robert Esser, of the city of Leadville,
county of Lake, and State of Colorado, lessors, and George A.
Jenks, of the city of Leadville, county of Lake, and State of
Colorado, lessee, witnesseth
"That the said lessors, for and in consideration of the royalties, covenants and agreements hereinafter reserved and by
the said lessee to be paid, kept and performed, have granted
demised and let, and by these presents do grant, demise and
let unto the said lessee all the following described mine and
mining property situate in California mimng district, county of
Lake, and State of Colorado, to wit:
"All their interest in the 'Buckeye' Lode mining claim,
situate on the north slope of Fryer Hill, in said mining district,
county, and State, together with the appurtenances
"To have and to hold unto the said lessee for the term of
two years from date hereof, expiring at noon on the 29th day
of July, A. D. 1887, unless sooner forfeited or determined,
through the violation of any covenant hereinafter against the
said tenant reserved.
"And in consideration of such demise the said lessee does
covenant and agree with the said lessors as follows, to wit
"To enter upon said mine or premises, and work the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

mine fashion, in manner necessary to good and economical
mining, so as to take out the greatest amount of ore possible,
with due regard to the development and preservation of the
same as a -workable mine, and to the special covenants hereinafter reserved.
"To well and sufficiently timber said mine at all points,
where proper m accordance with good mining, and to repair
all old timbering wherever it may become necessary
"To keep at all times the drifts, shafts, tunnels and other
workings thoroughly drained and clear of loose rock and rubbisb, unless prevented by extraordinary mining casualty
"To deliver to said lessors as royalty ten per cent of the net
smelter returns of all ore extracted from said premises, running
to and including twenty dollars ($20) per ton, and on all ores
running over twenty dollars ($20) per ton, twenty-five per cent
of the net smelter returns.
"To deliver to the said lessors the said premises, with the appurtenances and all improvements, in good order and condition,
with all drifts, shafts, tunnels and other passages thoroughly
clear of loose rock and rubbish, and drained, and the mine
ready for immediate continued work, (accidents not arising
from negligence alone excluded,) without demand or further
notice, on said 29th day of July, A.D. 1881, at noon, or at
any time previous, upon demand for forfeiture.
"And, finally, that upon the violation of any covenant or
covenants hereinbefore reserved, the term of this lease shall, at
the option of the lessors, expire, and the same, with said premises, with the appurtenances, shall become forfeited to said
lessors, and said lessors, or their agent, may, thereupon, after
demand of possession in writing, enter upon said premises and
dispossess all persons occupying the same, with or without
process of law, or, at the option of said lessors, the said tenant
and all persons found in occupation may be proceeded against
as guilty of unlawful detainer.
"And the said lessors expressly reserve to themselves the
property and right of property in all minerals to be extracted
from said premises during the term of this lease.
" Each and every clause and covenant of this agreement of

HILL v. SUAN-ER.
Opinion of the Court.

lease shall extend to the heirs, executors, administrators and
lawful assigns of all parties hereto.
"In witness whereof the said parties have hereunto set their
hands and seals.
[Seal.]
"ROBERT ESSER.
[Seal.]
"]DAVID K. HILL.
o
A. JERKs. [Seal.]"
"G GR
The obligation of Hill was assigned by Edward R. Sumner
to Mary J Sumner, the present plaintiff in error who brought
this action. Two issues were raised by the pleadings in the
case. The first of these was that there was a failure on the
part of Hill to prosecute with due diligence his obligation to
develop the mine, whereby the sum of ten thousand dollars
less the sums credited on the contract became due. The second
was, that by making the lease, the complainant had, within
the meaning of the fifth clause of the contract, disposed of the
mining property so as to become immediately liable for the
residue of said ten thousand dollars. The court by instructing
the jury that the execution of this lease by Hill caused the remainder of the ten thousand dollars to become due and payable, rendered it unnecessary for the jury to consider the first
proposition, and if the court was right in that instruction, the
verdict of the jury in favor of the plaintiff necessarily followed.
We shall therefore consider the soundness of this instruction.
The definition of the words "dispose of" or "sell," in this
article, must be considered with reference to the remainder of
the contract, to ascertain its meaning. Obviously the word
"dispose" must have some meaning in the contract, and is
It would be useless,
not synonymous with the word "sell."
if such were its construction. It must mean something more
In the circumstances
or something less than the word "sell."
of this case, it would seem to mean something more. The references of counsel in their briefs to decided cases attempting
to define that word are of course of very little avail, as in
each instance it must be taken in connection with the circum-

stances in winch it is used. In the language of this court in
the case of Pheps v iarms,101 IU.S. 370, 380, "the expres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sion 'to dispose of' is very broad, and signifies more than 'to
sell.' Selling is but one mode of disposing of property"
Looking, then, to the purposes which Edward 1R. Sumner
had in view in the use of this clause, by which the sale or disposal of one-eighth of the property rendered the ten thousand
dollars due, less the credits that should have been entered upon
it at that time, it is obvious that it was expected that Hill
would continue to make efforts to develop the mine and put it
in profitable working condition, until all parties were ready to
abandon it as a useless experiment, or until the ten thousand
dollars which Hill had agreed to pay Edward I. Sumner had
been exhausted by payments of contribution on account of the
one-eighth interest remaining in Edward H. Sumner. Any
contract made by Hill, which would put it out of his power to
perform this obligation, was the thing to be guarded against,
and the only guard which the contract provided was that be
should not make such disposal of even one-eighth of the property If he chose to dispose of one-eighth or of the whole of
it by selling it outright, or by leasing it for two or five or ten
years, he had the right to do it. In such event, however, he
became liable to Sumner for so much of the ten thousand
dollars as had not been exhausted by paying the contributions
properly assessable against the one-eighth of Edward H. Sumner.
This option he exercised by making the lease to Jenks. If the
results of that lease have been as profitable as Hill might
have supposed it would be, he could well afford to pay the
remainder of the ten thousand dollars. If they have not, it
was a losing venture, which he voluntarily entered upon.
We are of the opinion that in doing this, he disposed of the
property within the meaning of the clause under consideration, and instantly became liable for that part of the ten thousand dollars which he had not paid by advances on account of
the interest of Edward H. Sumner. As this view of the case
was in accordance with instructions of the presiding judge, and
is conclusive of it, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affli-med.

