OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

HALE v. AKERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREEM E COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 270.

Submitted December 6, 1889. -Decided

December 23, 1889.

Where the Supreme Court of a State decides a Federal question, in rendering a judgment, and also decides against the plaintiff in error on an
independent ground not involving a Federal question, and broad enough
to maintain the judgment, the writ of error will be dismissed, without
considering the Federal question.

THE case is stated in the opimon.
.Mr
brief.

IF If

Cope, for plaintiffs in error, submitted on his

XA Frank IF Backett, for defendants in error, submitted
on his brief. .M, Barclay Henley also filed a brief for same.
YR. JUsTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought August 22, 1879, in the Superior
Court in and for the county of Sonoma, in the State of California, by Henry M. Hale and Georgiana L. Schell, executors
of the will of Theodore L. Schell, deceased, against Stephen
Akers and Montgomery Akers, to recover the possession of a
piece of land in Sonoma County, being a portion of the
Huichica rancho, and described as follows "Beginning at a
point on the northerly line of the lane which runs from the
dwelling-house of said Schell, westerly to the road leading
from the Sonoma Plaza to the Embarcadero called 'Montgomery Street,' or 'Broadway,' which place of beginning is
distant 23.24 chains from the point of intersection of said lane
and said road, thence north 50 deg. and 45 mi. west along a
fence 18.98 chains, thence south 37 deg. 15 mm. west about
25 chains to a point on the northerly line of said lane, distant
3.63 chains easterly from the point of intersection aforesaid,
thence north 78 deg. 30 mm. east along said northerly line

HALE v. AKERS.
Opinion of the Court.

19.61 chains to the place of beginning, containing eighteen and
a half acres."
The answer of the defendants set up, among other defences,
that Stephen Akers entered into possession of the premises
more than twenty-five years before the suit was brought, under
a claim of title by a written conveyance made in 1858 by the
city of Sonoma, in Sonoma County, which city was then in the
possession of, and claimed title to, the premises, under a decree
of confirmation by the board of land commissioners, dated
January 22, 1856, and by the judgment and decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of California, made November 16, 1864, that he was the
owner in fee of the premises, that on the l1th of October,
1860, he entered into a written agreement with Schell, the
testator of the plaintiffs, whereby he released to Schell onehalf of a piece of land then in the possession of Akers, and
containing 111 acres and 2 rods of land, and Schell agreed
thereby that, in the event the city of Sonoma should establish its claim to any part of such released tract of land, he
would deliver the possession of the same, or such portions
thereof as might be so established, together with a yearly rent
of $5 per acre for the land so to be delivered, and that Akers
thereby agreed that, in the event of the city of Sonoma not
being able to establish its claim beyond the present line of the
iuichica patent, he would deliver possession to Schell of all
or such portion of the remainder of such tract of land as might
be within the line of the Huichica patent, and would pay a
yearly rent for the same, at the rate of $5 per acre, to Schell,
that by that agreement Schell relinquished all claim to the
premises in question, and acquiesced in Akers's title and right
of possession, that previous to October 11, 1860, and then and
ever since, the city of Sonoma claimed the said lands as its
pueblo lands, adversely to Schell, and was then, and ever
since had been, prosecuting its claim before the land department of the government, that, before that time, the said city
conveyed by deed to Akers the premises for which the suit
was brought, and by virtue thereof he was, on the l1th of
October, 1860, m possession of the premises and claiming the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

same adversely to Schell, that at that time Akers claimed
thati the premises were within the pueblo lands of the city
of Sonoma, and that that city would establish before the land
department of the United States and the Commissioner of the
General Land Office its claim thereto, that the defendants
and the said city then and ever since claimed that the pueblo
extended on the southeast to the Arroyo Seco, and that the
Arroyo Seco formed the boundary line between the pueblo
lands of the city and the lands of Schell, whilst Schell then
claimed that the Arroyo Seco did not form such boundary
line, but extended beyond it on the north and included the
lands of Akers, that, to settle the difficulties and avoid litigation, Akers and Schell made said agreement to await and
abide the decision of the land department of the United
States on the application of the city to have its title to its
lands confirmed, that Schell then agreed with Akers that
Schell should never claim any title to the lands described in
the complaint, until it was determined by a decree of the land
department of the United States that the city could not establish its title thereto, that Akers, for the purpose of avoiding
litigation and to await and abide the decision of said land
department, delivered over to Schell other land within the
pueblo, to await such decision, and Schell then agreed that, in
the event the city established its claim to any of the land, he
would forever release all claim of title or possession thereto,
deliver up to Akers all the lands claimed by Akers within the
pueblo, and pay to Akers 85 per acre per year for the use
thereof; that Akers was to hold the land until the city should
so fail to establish its title thereto, that the city had not failed
to do so, but had established its claim, that on the 31st of
March, 1880, and since the suit was commenced, the United
States issued and delivered to the city and the trustees thereof
a patent for the land described in the complaint, that the
plaintiffs claimed the land by virtue of a patent issued by the
United States to one Leese, and known as the IHuichica
patent, that said patent does not include the premises, that
if it does, the same was made without authority of law, that
the only authority on which the lHuichica patent issued was a

HALE v. AKERS.
Opunon of the Court.

decree of the said Circuit Court of the United States, made
December 24, 1856, and that said decree did not authorize the
issuing of a patent by the United States for the land described
in the complaint, or for any land on the west side of the
Arroyo Seco, but made the Arroyo Seco the boundary between
the pueblo and the Hulchica rancho.
The cause was tried by the court without a jury, and it
made a finding of facts, comprising the facts set forth in the
answer, with additional matters, the only material ones being
as follows A grant to one Leese of the place called Huichica
was made by the Mexican governor of California, in 1841, and
embraced all the land between the Arroyo Seco, the Arroyo
de los Carneros, and the swamp land, containing two square
leagues, the western boundary being the Arroyo Seco. Subsequently, the governor adjudged this grant to be void, because
the land of which judicial possession was attempted to be given
under it was much more than the quantity granted. Under a
subsequent petition by Leese, and on July 6th, 1844, the then
governor of California made to Leese a second grant of three
and one-half leagues of the land called Huichica, bounded on
the north by the crossing of the upper road to Napa, on the
east by the Arroyo de los Carneros, on the south by the
swampy lands on the bay, on the west by Estero de Sonoma as
far as the Trancas, taking the direction of the Arroyo Seco as
far as the Little Hills of Huichica. This grant was made subject to approval by the departmental assembly, but was never
placed before it for approval, although the first grant was approved by it after the second grant had been made. A claim
of Leese to the whole Huichica tract of five and one-half leagues
was confirmed by the board of land commissioners April 1Sth,
1853, and by the District Court of the United States April 22d,
1856. An appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States
was dismissed in December, 1856, no decree respecting the
claim having ever been made by the Circuit Court of the
United States. The decree of confirmation contained this
clause "The land of which confirmation is hereby made is
known by the name of 'IHuichica,' containing five and one-half
square leagues, and no more, and is bounded and described

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

as follows, to wit Bounded on the north by the upper
road which goes to Napa, on the east by the Arroyo de los
Carneros, on the south by the marshy land adjoining the bay
of San Francisco, and on the west by the Estero of Sonoma,
as far as the Trancas, taking the direction (el rumo - direction or course) of the Arroyo Seco." A survey of the Huichica
grant was made m December, 1858, and approved by the surveyor general in June, 1859 and, in accordance therewith, a
patent for the Huichica rancho, containing 18,704: acres, was
issued by the United States to Leese August 3d, 1859, reciting
the second grant, the confirmation and the survey The westerly boundary, as shown on the plat in that patent, is "the
Sonoma Creek, from a post marked L at the lower landing as
far as a post marked L at the Trancas, thence a straight line
running north 37 degrees east 156 chains to a post marked L
on the Arroyo Seco, at the Huichica Hills. This last line is
known as the ITrancas line.'" By quitclain deeds under
Leese, Schell claimed title to 470 acres of the Huichica rancho.
The title of Akers was derived as follows In 1835, General
Vallejo, director of colonization, under previous instructions
from the Mexican governor of California, established the pueblo
of Sonoma, and made a survey thereof, with the following
boundaries "On the east the Arroyo Seco, from the vineyard
of Salvador Vallejo to the salt marsh on the bay, thence along
the salt marsh westerly to Sonoma Creek, thence up said
creek to the Agua Caliente Creek , thence easterly by the hills
north of the city to place of beginning." Hle laid out the
tract into lots and blocks, and established families on it, occupying the tract along the Arroyo Seco, in 1835, down to the
point where it entered the said salt marsh. On a report of his
acts, made by him to the governor, they were approved by the
latter. In May, 1852, the authorities of the city of Sonoma
presented to the board of land commissioners their claim, as
successors of the pueblo, for all of its land, as established by
Vallejo. The claim was confirmed by the board, and afterwards, on appeal, by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of California, November 2d, 1864.
These decrees fixed the Arroyo Seco, from the vineyard afore-

I-ALE v. AKERS.
Opinion of the Court.

said to the salt marsh, as the eastern boundary of the pueblo.
A survey of the land was made in September, 1868, and reported to the land department of the United States for approval, in August, 1872. In March, 1876, the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, on a conflict before him on the
approval of the survey as to the location of the southeasterly
line, being the boundary common to the land confirmed to the
city of Sonoma and the land known as the Huichica grant,
adjudged and determined that such boundary should be established as follows "A direct line running from the point
marked 'Trancas,' on Sonoma reek, to the point where the
Arroyo Seco enters the salt marsh, (Station No. 43 in the
amended survey of IRancho Huichica,) and thence following
the direction of the Arroyo Seco to the Little Huichica Hills,
should constitute the southeasterly boundary of the pueblo of
Sonoma,1 1 and directed the surveyor general to make survey
of the confirmed claim of the city of Sonoma in accordance
with such decision. A resurvey was made, and the commissioner approved it and his former decision of March, 1876, fixing the Arroyo Seco as the boundary between the pueblo of
Sonoma and the Huichica grant. No appeal having been taken
from that decision, the same became final, and a patent for the
pueblo lands was issued by the United States, -March31, 1880,
to the mayor and common council of the city of Sonoma, in
accordance with the decrees of confirmation and the survey, contaming 6063.95 acres. The plat in the patent showed that it
covered 423 acres of land embraced in the Huichica patent, belug the tract bounded by the "Trancas line," so called, running
from postL at the Trancas north 37 deg. east 156 chains to post
L,on the Arroyo Seco, by the Arroyo Seco from said post to
where it enters the marsh at station 43 aforesaid, and by a line
from said station south 70 deg. 45 nn. west 81.50 chains to post
L at the Trancas. Akers entered into possession of the land
described in the complaint, under a contract with the city of
Sonoma to purchase it, in 1851, and had occupied it ever since.
On the 13th of May, 1858, the city conveyed to hnby deed 111
acres of land within the limits of the city as so confirmed and patented, the land sued for being part of such 111 acres. He con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tinned to reside upon, cultivate and improve the whole of the
same up to October 11, 1860, and resided upon, cultivated and
improved the west part of the tract so conveyed to him, including the portion sued for by the plaintiffs, ever since 1851.
In September, 1860, Schell sued Akers in the Seventh District
Court of the State of California, for the county of Sonoma, to
recover all of the said tract of land, claiming title thereto under
the Huichica patent, and Akers, by his answer in that action,
claimed title to the whole thereof under his deed from the city
of Sonoma. Whilst the action was pending, and on the llih
of October, 1860, the agreement in writing, before mentioned,
was made. On the execution of that agreement, Schell dismissed his action, and a fence was built by the parties, from
the lane mentioned in the complaint, extending northerly
across the said 111-acre tract and dividing it into two fields of
nearly equal size, and Akers surrendered to Schell the possession of all that portion of the 111-acre tract lying east of said
fence and embracing about fifty acres, and retained the possession of all the land on -the west side of said fence. The
Trancas line, being the western boundary of the line patented
to Leese, divides the 111-acre tract into two three-cornered
pieces, the line running from the southwest to the northeast
and crossing the said fence, leaving a portion within the
iuichica patent on the west side of the fence in the possession
of Akers, and also leaving a portion on the east side of the
fence, not embraced within the patent of the Huichica., in the
possession of Schell, held by him under the said contract.
Finding 25 was as follows A piece of land described as
follows Beginning at a point on the northerly line of the
lane leading from the house of Theodore L. Schell, deceased,
westefly to the road commonly called "Broadway," 1.63
chains easterly from the intersection of said lane and road,
the point where the Trancas line crosses said lane, thence
north 37 deg. east along the Trancas line to a point where the
said Trancas line crosses the fence heretofore constituting the
division fence between Alers and Schell, thence south 5 deg.
45 mi. east along said fence to the said lane, thence westerly
along the northerly side of said lane 15.61 chains to the place

HALE v. AKEBS.
Opinion of the Court.

of begining-is included within the land described in the
complaint. Said piece of land is situated between Arroyo
Seco and the Trancas line, and is within the boundaries described in the grant of the Huichica rancho of July, 1844, the
decrees of confirmation, the surveys and the patent thereof of
August 3d, 1859, also the three deeds under which Schell
claimed title to the 470 acres, and is not within the exceptions mentioned in the first of said deeds. Said piece of land
is also within the boundaries of the pueblo of Sonoma, established by Vallejo, the decrees of confirmation, the final survey, and the patent of said pueblo, issued March 31, 1880,
also the 111-acre tract, and is on the west side of the fence
built by the parties.
The court found as follows, as matter of law That the city
of Sonoma has established its claim to the land in controversy,
within the meaning of the said contract between Schell and
Akers. That, by the terms of said contract, each agreed with
the other to-abide by the decision of the United States on the
said claim of the city of Sonoma for said lands, as then pending
before the United States courts, and to abide by the boundary
line between them as established on the final confirmation of
pueblo lands to the city of Sonoma. That the defendant
Stephen Akers is entitled to the possession of all the lands and
premises described in the complaint. That all the right, title
and interest of Leese in and to all the piece of land described
in finding 25, derived to him under the patent of the Huichica
rancho, passed to and became vested in Schell on the 18th of
January, 1859. That all the title of the city of Sonoma passed
to and became vested in Stephen Akers, by deed dated May
13th, 1858, in and to the said tract described in said finding
25. That defendants are entitled to judgment for the possession of all the land described in the plaintiff's complaint,
with costs of suit.
The judge of the Superior Court of Sonoma County, in a
short opinion given in the case, said "The court is of the
opinion that the contract of the 11th of October, 1860, is conclusive of this controversy The Huichica patent had issued
when that agreement was made, and 'covered the land in disVOL. c=xxir-36

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

pute. Plaintiffs' testator had then all the title which he ever
could acquire. The parties must have referred to the final
location of the patent of the pueblo of Sonoma, when they, in
their agreement, used the phrase 'in the event the city of
Sonoma establishes her claim to any portion' of said land.
That patent has been finally located, and embraces the land
which is the subject of this suit. It follows that the defendants should prevail."
The judgment of the Superior Court was that the defendants recover costs from the plaintiffs. The latter took an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, which affirmed the
judgment of the Superior Court, by a judgment to review
which the plaintiffs have brought a writ of error.
The opinion of the Supreme Court, found in the record, and
also reported as .Halev Akers, 69 Cal. 160, recites the facts
as found by the Superior Court, and then states that there
are two sufficient answers to the claims made by the plaintiffs.
In its first answer, the court considered the neamng of the
words, "taking the direction of the Arroyo Seco," found in the
second grant, of July 6, 1844, and in the decree of confirnation, and stated that it seemed to it, as it did to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, that the line was to run
from the Trancas to the nearest point on the Arroyo Seco,
and thence up that creek or gulch, that, if that were so, then
it is clear that the line as run by the surveyor did not conform
to the decree, but took in lands not covered by the decree,
and that it must follow that to the lands so taken in, the original
concession to the pueblo, and the patent issued upon confirmation thereof, carried the better right.
The second answer which the Supreme Court made to the
claims of the plaintiffs was that the written agreement, before
mentioned, was intended to be, and was, binding upon the
parties, and was decisive of their rights, when it was executed.
The view taken by the court was that when Schell and Akers
executed the agreement, in October. 1860, the Huichica patent
had been issued to Leese, in August, 1859, and Schell had his
deed of January, 1859, that the Sonoma claun had been confirmed by the board of land commissioners, in January, 1856,

HALE v. AKERS.
Opinion of the Court.

and took in the land lyifig between the Trancas line and the
Arroyo Seco, that the city was asserting a right to that land,
and the case was pending before the courts, that Akers had a
deed, given by the city in May, 1858, of 111 acres of the land, and
was in possession of them, that under these circumstances the
parties compromised the pending suit, by dividing the 111
acres about equally between them, Akers releasing to Schell
the eastern half and retaining the western half, that, under
the terms of the agreement, the only establishment of the
Sonoma claim which the parties contemplated was such as
would result from the action of the courts upon it, and the
issuing of a patent by the government in pursuance of their
decrees, that the parties evidently thought that if the city
should finally succeed in establishing its claim, and receive a
patent for any of the land within the lines of the Huichica
patent, it would have the better title to the land, and that
they could, therefore, avoid litigation and expense, and safely
await the issue of the city's contest, that they rightly interpreted the law, and that Schell, so long as he lived, acquiesced
in the arrangement.
It is contended for the defendants that this court has no
jurisdiction of this case. For the plaintiffs it is contended that
not only was a Federal question raised in the Supreme Court
of the State, but it was decided adversely to the plaintiffs,
and that both parties claimed under titles acquired from the
Mexican government prior to the cession of California to the
United States.
The errors assigned b.r the plaintiffs are that the Supreme
Court of the State erred in adjudging that the Trancas line did
not conform to the decree of confirmation of the claim of Leese
to the luichica rancho, made April 22, 1856, by the District
Court of the United States, in adjudging that the patent of
March 31, 1880, to the mayor and common council of the city
of Sonoma, established that the title to the land in controversy
was in the defendants, and gave to them a title superior to the
title of the plaintiffs under the patent of August 3, 1859, issued
to Leese, and in adjudging that Schell and Akers, by their
written agreement of October 11, 1860, intended that any

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

patent which should be thereafter issued to the city of Sonoma,
conveying any portion of the land to which Schell then had
title under the Huichica patent of August 3, 1859, would or
could divest Schell of his title to the land under the Huichica
patent, or establish a superior title thereto in the city of
Sonoma.
After contending that the court below erred in its decision
of the Federal question, that such decision was based upon
the facts (1) that the land in dispute was a portion of the
pueblo land, and (2) that the lines of the survey of the
Huichica grant did not conform to the decree of confirmation,
and that, in so doing, the court ignored (1) the power of the
Mexican government to divest the pueblo title, and (2) the
findings of the lower court that the survey did conform to
the decree, the plaintiffs urge that the interpretation by that
court of the agreement between Schell and Akers was incorrect, and that it would not have so interpreted the agreement
had it not been for its erroneous deduction of law regarding
the Federal question, and, therefore, that the decision of the
Federal question was the controlling decision of the case.
But we cannot take this view Bbth of the courts below
decided that, irrespective of the Federal question, the agreement of October 11, 1860, was decisive of the case. The construction of that agreement involved no Federal question, and
controlled the whole case.
In .Murdock v City of .Xempmzs, 20 Wall. 590, 636, this
court. announced, as one of the propositions which flowed from
the provisions of the second section of' the act of February 5,
1867, 14 Stat. 386, embodied in section 709 of the Revised
Statutes of 1874, and still in force, that even assuming that a
Federal question was erroneously decided against the plaintiff
in error, the court must further inquire whether there was any
other matter or issue adjudged by the state court, which is
sufficiently broad to maintain the judgment of that court, notwithstanding the error in deciding the issue raised by the
Federal question, and that, if that is found to be the case, the
judgment must be affirmed, without inquiring into the soundness of the decision on such other matter or issue.

