CLEVELA-ND v. KING.
Syllabus.

estate, which is not a grant of power, but an express denial of
its power to hold any real estate under the circumstances men.tioned, is in my opimon destructive of the right to hold any
real estate at all under those circumstances. Whenever it is
shown that any of these corporations have not complied with
the requirements of the statute, they are forbidden to purchase or hold real estate. Any such purchase is therefore
void. It is the positive declaration of the law of the land.
The title does not pass, and it needs no inquest of the State to
establish that fact. The title which would have passed if the
corporation had a right to purchase does not pass. It remains
in the party who attempted to grant or convey it. The
grantee can neither purchase nor hold real estate. The assumption of the opimon of the court is that it may purchase
and it may hold real estate. I have not time to give the authorities on this subject. They are numerous, but they are
generally applicable to cases m which the granting power of
the corporation is wanting in sufficient language to enable it
to purchase and hold, and not to statutes winch are m their
terms prohibitory, forbidding and peremptory

CLEVELAND v. KING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 89. Argued and submitted November 8, 1889. -Decided

November 25, 1889.

In Ohio it is the duty of a municipal corporation to keep the streets of the
municipality in order; and a person receiving in3uries in consequence

of its neglect so to do, has a right of action at the common law for the
damage caused thereby.
A building permit by municipal authorities authorizing the occupation of
part of a public street as a depository for building materials, and requiring proper lights at nght to indicate their locality, does not relieve the
municipality from the duty of exercising a reasonable diligence to prevent the holders of the permit from occupying the street in such a way
as to endanger passers-by m their proper use of it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The case as stated by the court in its opinion was as follows
This is an action to recover damages for personal injuries
which the defendant in error, who was the plaintiff below,
alleges were sustained by hun in consequence of the failure of
the city of Cleveland, by its officers and servants, to exercise
due care in keeping one of its streets in proper and safe condition for use by the public. At the trial, the city objected to
the introduction of any evidence in behalf of the plaintiff, on
the ground that the petition did not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. The objection was overruled
and the defendant excepted. When the evidence for the
plaintiff was concluded, the defendant asked a peremptory
instruction in its behalf. This motion was deied, and to that
ruling of the court an exception was taken. After the whole
evidence was closed, and the court had charged the jury, the
defendant asked an instruction to the effect that there was
not sufficient legal proof of negligence on the part of the city,
its officers or agents, to entitle the plaintiff to recover. This
request having been denied, an exception was taken to the
ruling of the court. The case having been submitted to the
jury, a verdict was returned for ten thousand dollars against
the city Upon that verdict a judgment was rendered for the
plaintiff.
The petition, after referring to Bank Street as a common
public street and highway in the city of Cleveland for the
free passage and travel, at all times, of persons on foot and
with horses and vehicles, and averring that, under the statutes
of Ohio, the duty rested upon the city to cause the street to
be kept open, in repair, and free from nuisances, alleged that
the defendant, on the 12th day of November, 1879, wrongfully placed, and permitted to be placed, large quantities of
dirt, sand, rubbish, stones, boxes and other materials for
building purposes in and across saad street at or near and
before a building owned by one Rosenfeld, and negligently
and wrongfully suffered and permitted the same to extend
across and occupy more of the street than was reasonable or

CLEVELA ND v. KD-G.
Statement of the Case.

necessary, namely, more than one-half of its width, and to
remain and continue on the above day and during the nighttime of that day, unprotected and unguarded, without a sufficient number of lights, or in such a manner as to be distinctly
seen by those using the street. It was further alleged that,
in consequence of such carelessness, negligence and improper
conduct on the part of the city, the plaintiff, while lawfully
passing in a buggy along Bank Street in the night-time, was,
by reason of said dirt, sand, rubbish, stones, boxes and other
materials in the street, overturned with great force and violently thrown upon the street, whereby, and without fault or
negligence upon his part, one of his legs was broken, and he
was otherwise permanently injured and disabled.
The answer of the city put in issue all the material averments of the petition, and, in addition, alleged that if the
plaintiff was injured, it was due to his own negligence, and
not because of any want of care on the part of the defendant.
At the trial the plaintiff was permitted, against the defendant's objection, to read in evidence two sections of certain ordinances of the city relating to the placing in the streets of
material for building purposes. They are as follows
"SEC. 4. No person shall place or cause to be placed on any
street, lane, alley or public ground any material for building
purposes without the written permission of the board of city
improvements. Such permission shall specify the portion of
the sidewalk and street to be used and the period of said use,
which shall not exceed two months, and in no case shall any
person use more than one-half of the sidewalk and half of the
street. The council may at any tune revoke such license. At
the expiration of the permission or on the revocation of it said
persons shall remove said material from the street."
"SEc. 14. Whenever any person or persons, whether contractor or proprietor, shall be engaged in the erection or repairing of any building or other structure whatever within the
city, and shall cause or permit any building materials, rubbish
or other thing to be placed on any public street, lane, alley or
sidewalk, or other place in the city where persons pass and repass, and whenever any person or persons who shall be en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

gaged in constructing any sewer or laying any gas, water or
other pipes or conductors in or through any of the streets,
lanes, alleys, highways, sidewalks or other places in the city
where persons pass and repass, whether by appointment of the
city or its agents, or as contractor, it shall be the duty of all
such persons to protect, with a sufficient number of lights, the
materials, rubbish, goods, wares and merchandise, heaps, piles,
excavation or other things so caused or permitted by them
to be or remain in or at any of the places above mentioned,
and in such manner as to be distinctly seen by all passers-by,
and to continue all such lights from dusk until daylight during
every night while any obstructions of the above-mentioned description are allowed to remain in or at such places, and every
person who shall neglect the duty imposed by this section shall,
in addition to the penalty imposed by this chapter, be liable
for all damages to persons and property growing out of such
neglect."
He was also permitted against the defendant's objection, to
read in evidence two permits given by the city, through its board
of improvements, one to E. Rosenfeld, dated July 16, 1879,
and the other to Frank Kostering, dated September 19, 1879,
each permit authorizing the person named therein to occupy
one-half of the sidewalk and one-third in width of the street
in front of the premises owned by Rosenfeld, during a period
of sixty days from the date of the permit, for the purpose of
placing building materials thereon, subject, however, to the
provisions of the ordinance requiring that such materials be
protected "with a sufficient number of lights, from dusk until
daylight, during every day that the same shall remain," and
to the condition that the person neglecting that duty should
be liable to the penalty inposed: by the ordinance, and for all
damages to person or property growing out of such neglect.
There was evidence before the jury tending to show that
when the plaintiff was passing on Bank Street about seven
o'clock in the evening of lNovember 12, 1879, the buggy in
which he was riding ran against a mortar-box placed by lostering in the street, and used by him for purposes of building
on Rosenfeld's premises, and was overturned, whereby he was

CLEVELAND v. KING.
Statement of the Case.

thrown violently to the street, and seriously and permanently
injured in his body There was also evidence tending to show
that the obstructions placed in the street by Kostering were
not indicated by lights or signals, so as to give warmng to
persons passing in vehicles, that a greater width of street was
occupied by these building materials than was justified by the
permits granted by the board of improvements, and that the
failure of the plaintiff and of the person driving the buggy in
which he was riding, to see the mortar-box in time to avoid
runmng against it, was not due to any want of care upon the
part of either, but to the absence of signals or lights upon the
box.
There was evidence on behalf of the city tending to show
that the plaintiff and the person with whom he was riding
might, with reasonable diligence, have seen the mortar-box
before the buggy came in contact with it, also that a proper
light was placed on the mortar-box about dark of the evening
when the accident in question occurred.
The charge to the jury was very full, covering every possible aspect of the evidence, and sufficiently indicating the
legal propositions which, in the judgment of the court below,
were applicable to the case.
Among other things, the court said "The plaintiff had the
right to the use of the street, in going from the hotel to the
depot, unobstructed and free from danger, but subject, however, to such incidental, temporary or partial obstructions as
are necessarily occasioned in the building or repair of houses
fronting upon the streets over which he passed, but in using
the street he must exercise reasonable and ordinary care to
avoid obstructions, if any be found thereon. In the nighttime he had the right to suppose, in the absence of signals of
danger, that the street was not dangerously obstructed or dangerous to pass over, but in passing over it he must exercise
ordinary care and prudence to avoid any dangerous obstructions, both in the observation of obstructions, ther locality
and character, and the speed used in passing along the street.
If any obstructions attracted his attention, he should be more
careful to avoid any others that might be in the street and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

near the same. or if he knew that there were building materials located in the street in front of a new building, in
driving along he must exercise reasonable care to avoid running upon any such obstructions. The city had a right to
allow Rosenfeld to use a reasonable part of the street for the
purpose of depositing therein building materials with which
to erect his building, and the same could rightfully be used by
LMr. Kostering, the builder or contractor, for that purpose."
Again "The principal negligence complained of by the
plaintiff is that, being in the night-time, no lights were placed
at or near the materials, sufficient to warn him of danger as
he passed along the street. Having provided in the permits
to Rosenfeld and Kostering, the contractor, that in the nighttime sufficient lights should be placed by them at or near materials placed and remaining in the street to warn persons
passing along there of dangerous obstructions, the city had a
right to suppose such lights were so placed in the night-time.
Whilst it was the general duty of the city to keep its streets
in safe condition for the use of persons passing over the same,
and liable for injuries caused by its neglect or omission to
keep them in repair and reasonably safe, yet, in such a case,
the basis of the action being negligence, it is not liable for an
injury resulting from such negligence unless it had notice or
knowledge of the defect that caused the injury before it was
sustained or, in the absence of express or direct notice, such
notice or knowledge may be inferred from facts and circumstances showing that such want of proper lights to denote dangerous obstructions existed for a sufficient period of time and
in such a public and notorious manner as that the officers
representing the city, or those in the employment of the city
for the purpose of removing obstructions in the city, in the
exercise of ordinary care and diligence, ought.to have known
of such want of proper guards in the night-tune.
"The city is not an insurer of the absolute safety of persons
passing along its streets in the night-time. It is only required
to exercise ordinary care for such safety, and in judging of what
would be ordinary care you are to take into account the great,
number of streets and their mileage contained in the city If

CLEVELAND v. KING.

301

Opinion of the Court.

the city, or the officers or employes representing it, had such
notice or knowledge, direct or implied, as I have stated, then
it was its duty to see that proper lights in the night-time were
placed at or near the obstructions, such as would be sufficient
to warn persons of reasonable and ordinary prudence of the
presence of such obstructions, and, failing to do so, it would be
liable for injuries resulting from such failure."
Mr Allan T Bnnsmade, for plaintiff in error, submitted on
his brief, citing Frazerv Lewtston, 76 Maine, 531, Hewison
v New Haven, 34 Conn. 136, Hewtson v lVew Haven, 37 Conn.
475, Hill v Boston, 122 Mass. 344, Chase v Cleveland, 44
Ohio St. 505, Robznson v Greenville, 42 Ohio St. 625, iXledical College v Cleveland, 12 Ohio St. 375, Clark v _-ry, 8 Ohio
St. 358, .Allegheny v Zimmerman, 95 Penn. St. 287, Everett v
.Jfarquette, 53 Michigan, 450, St. Paul v. Gilfillan, 36 Minnesota, 298, _Yorristown v Fitzpatrck, 94 Penn. St. 121, Campbell v .31fontgomery, 53 Alabama, 527, Lafayette v Timberlake,
88 Indiana, 330, Altvater v Baltimore,31 Maryland, 462, Sinclarr v Baltimore, 59 Maryland, 592, Bartlett v Jittery, 68
Maine, 358, Farrall v Oldtown, 69 Maine, 72, Smyth v
Bangor, 72 Maine, 249, Joliet v Seward, 86 Illinois, 402,
Hume v YNew York City, 47 N. Y 639, Warsaw v Dunlap,
112 Indiana, 576.
_TJ' .E. TWilcox, (with whom was -U Richard Bacon,)
for defendant in error cited Campbell v Xfcntgomery, 53
Alabama, 527, Barnes v Distrct of ColumbZa, 91 _U S.
540, .fedical College v Cleveland, 12 Ohio St. 375, Robsnson v Greenville, 42 Ohio St. 625, Cardington v Frederzcks, 46 Ohio St. (not yet reported), Boucher v _Yew
H aven, 40 Connecticut, 456, Reed v Northfmeld, 13 Pick.
94, Manchester v Hartford, 30 Connecticut, 118, Storrs
v Utica, 17 N. Y 104, Buffalo v Holloway, 3 Selden
(7 N. Y.) 493, Baltimore v O'Donnell, 53 Maryland, 110,
.Detrotv Corey, 9 Michigan, 164, Child v Boston, 4 Allen, 41.
MR. JUSTICE IHARLA.N, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 2640 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, Title,
Municipal Corporations, it is provided that "the council shall
have the care, supervision and control of all public highways,
streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, public grounds and bridges
within the corporation, and shall cause the same to be kept
open and in repair, and free from nuisance." 1 Rev Stats.
Ohio, Title XII, Div 8, c. 13, Giauque's ed. 600.
The city concedes that, if there was any liability at all on
its part, the charge of the court correctly announced the
principles of law applicable to the case. If the obstruction in
question was on Bank Street unnecessarily, or for an unreasonable length of time, or was there without proper lights or other
guards to indicate its locality, and such condition of the street
at the time the plaintiff was injured existed with the knowledge of the city, dither actual or constructive, for a sufficient
length of time to remedy it by the exercise of proper diligence, the liability of the city cannot be doubted, in view of
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Ohio and of this court,
unless, as contended by the defendant, the plaintiff, notwithstanding the negligence of the city in not keeping the street
open and free from nuisance, could, by due care, have avoided
the injuries he received.
In the case of Cardingtonv Prederwks,which will appear in
46 Ohio St., the Supreme Court of Ohio construed the above
section in connection with section 5144. which, among other
things, provides that an action for a nuisance shall abate by
the death of either party That was an action against an incorporated village founded upon a petition alleging that a
street used by the public was so unskilfully and negligently
constructed and left by the defendant as to be in an unsafe
condition, and allowed to become out of repair and obstructed
by the rubbish and refuse of the village, so that it was highly
dangerous, and that the plaintiff, while lawfully passing along
the street, accidentally, and without fault on her part, was
precipitated down an embankment, whereby she was greatly
bruised and injured.
The court held the action to be one for a nuisance, and, in
harmony with the principles announced upon this general

CLEVELAND v. KNG.
Opinion of the Court:

subject in Barnes v Dstrictof Columbzc, 91 U. S. 540, 541,

said. "The statute (ยง 2640, Rev Stats.) gives to municipal
corporations the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, etc., and requires that the same shall be kept open,
and in repair, and free from nmsance. In effect it is a requirement that the corporation shall prevent all nuisances therein,
and by allowing a street to become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, the corporation itself maintains a nuisance,
and a suit to recover for injuries thereby occasioned is for
damage arising from a nuisance or 'for a nuisance.' The
statute does not give a remedy, it but enjoins the duty And
when a duty to keep streets in repair is enjoined on municipal
corporations, either by a statute in the form now in force or
by a provision which authorizes them to pass ordinances for
regulating streets and keeping them in repair, and gives power
to levy taxes for that purpose, and presumably to obtain a
fund for satisfying claims for damages, a right of action for
damages caused by such neglect arises by the common law"
This language leaves no room to doubt the liability of the
city of Cleveland for the damages sustained by the plaintiff if
it was guilty of the negligence charged in the petition, and if
the plaintiff was not himself guilty of negligence that materially contributed to his injury The fact that the permits
to Rosenfeld and Kostering only authorized them to occupy
one-half of the street for the purpose of depositing building
materials thereon, and required them to indicate the locality of
such materials by proper lights, during the whole of every
night that they were left in the street, did not relieve the city
of the duty of exercising such reasonable diligence as the circumstances required, to prevent the street from being occupied
by those parties in such a way as to endanger passers-by m
their use of it in all proper ways. Whether that degree of
diligence was exercised by the city, through its agents,
whether its officers had such notice or knowledge of the use of
Bank Street, m the locality mentioned, by the parties to whom
the above permits were granted, as was inconsistent with the
safety of passers-by using it with due diligence, whether, in
fact, the materials and obstructions placed by Kostering on the

