OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

itors have the immediate right of sale. The law does not
countenance any such transaction, but leaves both parties in
the position where they have placed themselves. lukms v
.Avrd, 6 Wall. 78.
The district judge is mistaken when he says that "one of
the objects of the bill is to prevent the defendants from reaping the lion's share of the benefits of this confessed fraud."
The object of the suit, as clearly and explicitly stated in the
bill, is to secure to the complainants the entire benefit of the
confessed fraud by having all the property, with all the intermediate rents and profits added, free from all liens and liabilities, returned to them. The real complaint is that Dent, the
fraudulent vendee, refused to perform his part of the fraudulent understanding with Ferguson, the fraudulent vendor; and
tle avowed purpose of the suit-is to compel the defendants to
perform it. The prayer cannot be granted without overturning established principles of equity
The decree of the Circuit Court should, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded,to that court, with a direction to dismss the bill w?.tl costs, so ordered.

THOMPSON v. WHITE WATER YALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY
.APXPEAL FROM

THE CRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 26. Argued October 21,1889. - Decided Nlovember 4,1889.

A mortgage by a railroad company, which covers its entire property and
also all property appertaning to its road which it might afterwards
acquire, is valid as to such after-acquired property; and the bonds issued
under it are a prior encumbrance on a part of the chartered line contructed, after the funds realized from the mortgage bonds had been
exhausted, out of moneys subsequently furnished by parties who took
from the company a special lien upon the rents and profits of the section
so constructed with their money.

THOMPSON v. VALLEY RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.
The doctrine that a vendor not taking security for the price of real estate
sold by him holds in equity a lien upon the property for such price has
no application to tns case.

Tmis suit was brought by holders of obligations of the
Indiana, Cincinnati and Lafayette IRailroad Company, and on
behalf of other holders similarly situated, to enforce an alleged
lien claimed by them upon earnings of a section of the road
of the White Water Valley Railroad Company, against the
claim to priority of bondholders secured by an earlier mortgage. The White Water Valley Railroad Company was
organized as a corporation in 1865, under the laws of Indiana,
with authority to locate, construct and operate a line of railway from Hagerstown, in Wayne County of that State, to the
town of Harrison, Dearborn County, on the boundary line
between Indiana and Ohio. To raise the necessary means to
construct the railway, the company issued its coupon bonds
to the amount of one million of dollars, in sums of one thousand dollars each. They were dated August 1, 1865, and were
to mature the 1st of August, 1890, and draw interest at the
rate of eight per cent per annum, payable semi-annually To
secure the payment of the principal and interest of these bonds,
the company executed to trustees by way of mortgage, a deed
bearing date on that day, of its railroad and all the right of
way and land occupied thereby, with the superstructure and
all property, materials, rights and privileges, then or thereafter appertaining to the road, and the benefit of all contracts
with other railroad companies, then existing or thereafter to
be made, and all property, rights and interests under the same.
The deed contained the usual covenants to execute suitable
conveyances for the further assurance of property subsequently
acquired and intended to be included in the instrument. The
company soon afterwards commenced the construction of the
road, and by the 4th of November, 1867, completed that part
of it which lies between the towns of Harrison and Cambridge
City, leaving the distance from the latter place to Hagerstown
-between

seven and eight miles - unconstructed.

It was

then without the requisite means to equip the part of the road
completed, or to undertake the construction of the remaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

portion of the road. In this condition it entered into 'a contract of perpetual lease with the Indianapolis, Cincinnati and
Lafayette Railroad Company, a corporation then in existence,
in consideration of which the latter company agreed to furnish
all the necessary equipments, material and laborers to operate
the line of the road then completed, and to construct and put
in good and safe running order for the accommodation of the
public that part of the line then uncompleted, that is, the section between Cambridge City and Hagerstown, and to pay to
the lessor annually the sum of one hundred and forty thousand
dollars in four quarterly payments of thirty-five thousand
dollars each. The contract referred to the mortgage of one
million of dollars before mentioned, and provided for the payment of the interest thereon out of the rents received, and for
the resumption of possession by the lessor if the lessee failed
to keep its covenants.
The Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette Company went
into the possession of the property thus leased, and proceeded
to have the remaining portion of the line of the road between
Cambridge City and Hagerstown constructed. For that pur
pose the lessee, on the 7th of December, 1867, entered into a
contract with Benjamin E. Smith and Henry C. Lord, by
which these gentlemen agreed to construct the remaining portion of the line, and the lessee agreed, in consideration of such
construction, to issue to them, or to such parties as they might
name, obligations of the company to the amount of two
hundred and five thousand dollars, divided into shares of one
hundred dollars each, which obligations were to be transferable on the books of the company like shares of stock, and the
principal thereof was to be irredeemable, but to bear interest
at the rate of eight per cent per annum, payable semi-annually
The contract with these parties recited the right of the lessee
company to the perpetual use and possession of the railroad
from Harrison to Hagerstown, and the right to construct the
uncompleted portion of the road, and have the benefit of all
donations made for that purpose, and provided that in payment for the construction of the uncompleted portion the
lessee was to issue its obligations to the amount of two hundred

THOMPSON v. VALLEY RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

and five thousand dollars, as before mentioned. Under this
contract the line of railway between Cambridge City and
Hagerstown was completed, and the lessee company remained
in its possession from July, 1868, to May 1, 1871, receiving the
income thereof, and gave its certificates for the obligations
mentioned to Lord and Smith to the amount of two hundred
and five thousand dollars. Whilst the work upon this section
of the road was in progress it was agreed between the contractors and the lessee company that the holders of the certificates for the obligations should have a perpetual lien upon all
the earnings of the line constructed by them, to secure the
payment of the. semi-annual interest, as stipulated, and on
the 23d of April, 1868, such lien was given by resolution of the
board of directors of the lessee company
On the 10th of
July, 1869, the lessor company and the lessee company united
in executing and delivering a mortgage to Smith and Lord
upon the section of railroad built by them, in trust to secure
the holders of the certificates mentioned. On the 12th of July,
1869, the board of directors of the White Water Valley Railroad Company, by a resolution entered on its records, ratified
the contract of lease, and directed its president to execute, or
join in the execution of, any writing necessary or proper to
give effect to the agreement for the lien on the earnings mentioned. On the first of May, 1871, the two corporations, the
lessor and the lessee companies, agreed that the original contract of lease should be cancelled, and that the road of the
White Water Valley Railroad Company should be returned to
it. In pursuance of such agreement the lease was cancelled,
and thereafter the White Water Valley Railroad Company
operated the property, receiving its revenue and earnings,
amounting, as charged in the bill, to the sum of one .hundred
thousand dollars. It was agreed between these two companies
that in part consideration for the surrender of the road from
Hagerstown to Cambridge City the White Water Valley Railroad Company should recognize the priority of the lien of all
the holders of the certificates, and should either pay or discharge the interest thereon continuously thereafter, or make
other satisfactory arrangements with such holders, or, failing

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

therein, should surrender to the lessee company the possession
of the railroad between those places and cease to operate the
same or to receive its earnings.
The bill charged that the White Water Valley Railroad
Company had taken and maintained possession of the section
of the railroad mentioned since the first day of May, 181, up
to the commencement of the suib, and been in the receipt of
all its earnings, and had disregarded its obligations to the
holders of the certificates. The bill therefore prayed that an
account be taken of the income and earnings of the said
branch, and that out of the same the amount due the complamants on their certificates be directed to be paid, and that
in default of payment the lien be foreclosed and the property
sold.
Answers were filed to this bill and replications to them,
and proofs were taken.
Pending the progress of the case the White Water Railroad
Company, a corporation under the laws of Indiana -a different corporation from the White Water Valley Railroad Company- was permitted to intervene in the case. It seems that
after the commencement of this suit the trustees in the mortgage of August 1st, 1865, brought suit for the foreclosure of
the mortgage executed to them and obtained a decree for the
sale of the entire road mortgaged, which included the whole
of the road from Harrison, in Dearborn County, to Hagerstown, in the county of Wayne, embracing that portion extending between Cambridge City and the town of Hagerstown,
and under such decree said property was sold and the White
Water Railroad Company became its purchaser. In its answer
to the bill of complaint, that company set up the proceedings
had in the foreclosure suit, the decree for the sale of the property mortgaged, and its purchase of the same. The court
below decreed in its favor, holding that the whole of that
railroad, including the portion lying and extending between
Cambridge City and Hagerstown, was thus acquired and
owned by the White Water Railroad Company, and that the
only equitable relief to which the complainants were entitled
was a possible right to redeem from said mortgage, and gave

THOIMSON v. VALLEY RAILROAD CO.
Opinion of the Court.

to the complainants thirty days in which to commence proceedings for such redemption, and ordered that in default of
such proceedings the bill should be dismissed. The complainants declined to take any proceedings for that purpose and
the bill was accordingly dismissed, and they appealed to this
court.
2l' C. B. Mfatthews for appellants. Mr D Thew Wright
was with him on the brief.
Xr Attorney General for the White Water Valley Railroad Company, appellee.
MR. JusTicE. FIELD, after stating the

case, delivered the

opinion of the court, as follows
From the above brief statement of the case, it is clear that
the decree of the court below must be affirmed. The claims of
the complainants, whatever validity and force may be given
to them as liens upon the earnings of the section of road from
Cambridge City to Hagerstown, between the parties agreeing
to such liens, are entirely subordinate to the rights of the bondholders under the mortgage of the White Water Valley Railroad Company, executed for their benefit to trustees on the
1st of August, 1865. That mortgage was made before the
claims of the complainants had any existence. It covered
the entire property of the company then owned by it, including its line of railway from Hagerstown, in Wayne County
to Harison, in Dearborn County, and all property appertainIng to the road winch it might afterwards acquire. The
validity of mortgages of that character by railroad companies
upon property which may be subsequently acquired is not an
open question now. It has been affirmed by adjudications of
the highest courts of the States as well as by tins court.
Indeed, in a majority of cases, mortgages by such companies
upon their roads and appurtenances have been executed for
the purpose of raising the necessary means to construct the
roads, and sometimes, indeed, when the lines of such roads

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

had only been surveyed. In Galveston Comapany v Cowdrey,
11 Wall. 459, 481., there were several deeds of trust which in
terms covered after-acquired property, each of which was
similar in its character to the one in this case, and the court
held that they estopped the company and all persons claiming
under them, and in privity with them, from asserting that
they did not cover all the property and rights which they
professed to cover. Said the court "Had there been but
one deed of trust, and had that been given before a shovel
had been put into the ground towards constructing the railroad, yet if it assumed to convey and mortgage the railroad
which the company was authorized by law to build, together
with its superstructure, appurtenances, fixtures and rolling
stock, these several items of property, as they came into
existence, would become instantly attached to and covered by
the deed, and would have fed the estoppel created thereby
No other rational or equitable rule can be adopted for such
cases." See also Porterv. PittsburgSteel Co., 122 U. S. 267,
283, and cases there cited.
The decision in the case of Galveston Company v Cowdrey
also covers the only plausible position of th6 complainants,
that they have a lien upon the earnings of the section, because
with their moneys the road over it was constructed. But the
work was not done at the request of the mortgagees, but upon
a contract with the lessee of the road, which had stipulated
as one of the considerations of the lease to construct that part
of the line. With those contractors the bondholders, secured
by the mortgage of August 1, 1865, had no relations, and
incurred no obligation to them. In the case cited it was contended that priority should be given to the last creditor for
aiding to conserve the road. But the court answered that
this rule had never been introduced into our laws, except in
maritime cases, which stand on a particular reason, that by
the common law whatever is affixed to the freehold becomes
part of the realty, except certain fixtures erected by tenants,
which do not affect the question, and that the rails put down
upon the company's road become a part of the road. Here
the same rule applies, and not only the rails, but those perma-

