OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. THOMAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 1086.

Submitted October 28, 1889. -Decided

November 18, 1889.

This court has jurisdiction to renew, on writ of error, a decision of the
lughest court of a State, in which it is decided that a provision m a tax
act of the State that it shall not apply to railroad corporations exempted
from taxation'by their charters is not applicable to a particular corporation, party to the suit, although its charter contains a provision respecting exemption from taxation.
Exemptions from taxation, being in derogation of the sovereign authority
and of common right, are not to be extended beyond the express requirements of the language used, when most rigidly construed.
The appellant's charter provided that it should" be exempt from taxation
for a term of twenty years from the completion of said railroad to the
Mississippi River, but not to extend beyond twenty-five years from the
date of the approval of this act:" Held, that the exemption was intended
to commence from and after the completion of a railroad to the Mississippi
River, and was to continue thereafter for twenty years if the road was
completed to the river in five years from the date of the approval of the
act, but liable to be diminished by whatever time beyond five years was
consumed by the completion of the road to the river.
The preamble to a statute is no part of it, and cannot enlarge or confer
powers, or control the words of the act unless they are doubtful or
ambiguous.
Vicksburg, Shreveport & -PacificRailway Co. v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665, approved
and applied.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as follows:

The Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company was
incorporated by an act of the Mississippi legislature, approved
February 17, 1882, the preamble and sections 2, 8, 13 and 14
being as follows
"Whereas, the construction of railroads to, in, through and
along the Mississippi River basin, and the Yazoo and Sunflower River basins, penetrating these and other alluvial lands
in this State, west of the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans
Railroad, and connecting them by railroads and branches with
other railroads west, east, north and south, is deemed and here-

-YAZOO RAILROAD 00. v. THOMAKAS.
Statement of the Case.

by declared to be a work of great public Importance, and, in
strict accordance with the true policy and interest of this State,
should be encouraged by legislative sanction and liberality,
and, whereas the physical difficulties of constructing and maintaining railroads to, across, along or within either the Mississippi,
Sunflower, Deer Creek or Yazoo bottoms or basins, or the other
alluvial lands herein referred to, are such that no private company has so far been able to establish a railroad and branches
developing said basins and alluvial lands, and connecting them
with the railroad system of the country Now, therefore, in
order to induce the investment of capital in the construction,
maintenance and operation of such a railroad and branches,
and thus develop the resources and wealth of this State "
"1
SEc. 2. Be 't further enacted, That the said corporation
shall also have, and it is hereby authorized and invested with
the right and power to build and construct, and thereafter to
use, operate, own and enjoy a railroad or railroads, with one
or more tracks, into, along and across that part of the State of
Mississippi lying between the Mississippi River and the Chicago,
St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad, on such line or lines as
shall be deemed best by the board of directors of the company
hereby chartered, one of said lines, or a branch therefrom, to
reach the Mississippi River at or near a point opposite Arkansas City if practicable, so as to connect such point on the east
bank of the Mississippi River with some point or points on the
line of the Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad, one
of said lines of railroad, or a branch therefrom, to be extended
to or pass through Yazoo City, Mississippi, and said company
shall have the right and power, and are hereby authorized, to
build one or more branches or lines of railroads between the
Mississippi River and Deer Creek, and between Deer Creek
and the Sunflower River, and between the Sunflower and
Yazoo Rivers, in the direction of or to the north line of this
State, and extend the same, or any one thereof, in the direction
of or to the south boundary line of this State, as shall from
time to time, in the judgment of said company, be deemed
proper, and shall also be authorized to construct and operate
such spurs or laterals from or along such main line or branches

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

not exceeding one hundred miles in length, as may from time
to time be necessary or proper to fully develop said country
lying west of the Chicago, St. Louis and -New Orleans Railroad,
and east of the Mississippi River, in this State, and the said
company, as soon as and whenever, from time to time, they
have located said line or lines of railroad or branches, spurs or
laterals thereto, or any of them, shall file in the office of the
secretary of State a statement showing the general line thereof as far as the same has up to that time been located."
"SEc. 8. Be it further enacted, That in order to encourage
the-investment of capital in the works which said company is
hereby authorized to construct and maintain, and to make certain in advance of such investment, and as an inducement
and consideration therefor, the taxes and burdens which this
State will and will not impose thereon, it is hereby declared,
that said company, its stock, its railroads and appurtenances,
and all its property in this State, necessary or incident to the
full exercise of all the powers herein granted - not to include
compresses and oil mills -shall be exempt from taxation for
a term of twenty years from the completion of said railroad
to the Mississippi River, but not to extend beyond twenty-five
years from the date of the approval of this act, and when the
period of exemption herein prescribed shall have expired, the
property of said railroad may be taxed at the same rate as
other property in this State. All of said taxes to which the
property of said company may be subject in this State,
whether for county or State, shall be collected by the treasurer of this State and paid into the state treasury, to be dealt
with as the legislature may direct, but said company shall be
exempt from taxation by cities and towns."
"SEo. 13. Be zt further enacted, That unless said company
shall construct and have m operation twenty miles of railroad
within three years from the passage of this act, the legislature
shall have the right to declare this charter forfeited.
"SEC. 14. Be itfurther enacted,That all acts in conflict with
this act, or any part thereof, be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act take effect and be in force from and
after its passage, the public welfare requiring it." Laws of
Mississippi, 1882, 838.

YAZ00 RAILROAD CO. v. THOHAS.
Statement of the Case.

By section one, the corporation isauthorized to hold, purchase, receive and enjoy real and personal estate in Mississippi

and other States, however acquired, and to sell, rent, lease,
mortgage or otherwise dispose thereof.
By section five, it is empowered to consolidate with any
other company or companies, and acquire or lease other railroads in or out of the State for a term of years or in perpetuity, to do an express business over its own and other lines
of railroads and steamboats or other conveyances in and out
of the State, and to acquire, put up, use and operate a line or
lines of telegraph in this or other State or States, by section
six, to fix its own rate of charges, not to exceed a maximum
indicated, provided, it may make special agreements with shippers as to lumber, coal, iron, etc., and other freights transported
in car loads, without discrimination, by section seven, to enter
on state lands anywhere and take in fee simple one hundred
feet on each side of the centre of any of its tracks, as right of
way, to use any rocks, timber, earth, sand, gravel, water or
other materials anywhere found on such state lands, to build
bridges across any stream whether navigable or not, with
power and authority "to build, construct, maintain and operate of itself or with others, in or out of this State, a ferry
across, or a tunnel under, or a bridge over, the Mississippi
River at any point within this State, where its railroads,
branches, laterals or spurs may reach said river," to acquire
all lands and materials necessary for landings, wharves, inclines or approaches thereto, to establish such landings,
wharves, etc., as may be necessary or convenient in transporting freights, passengers, cars or rolling stock, loaded or unloaded, upon and across said Mississippi River, or any other
river or body of water within this State, and to own, use and
operate, and control by itself or others, "all such steamboats,
ferries or other water craft as are or may be convenient or
necessary in crossing such water, so as to develop trade over
said lines of railroad,"' by section nine, to insure persons and
property, or either, transported or to be transported over any
part of its line, and all other property coming into the possession or control of said company for transportation or storage,
VoL. CXx=-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and to charge reasonable compensation for such insurance or
storage; to erect or acquire and use such depots, storage
houses, wharves, etc., as shall be necessary or convenient, and
to construct and operate compresses and oil mills, by section
ten, to run its railroad, branches, laterals or spurs into the corporate limits of any incorporated town or city, and to build
and operate its tracks, across or along any streets of such incorporated municipality, and by section eleven, the board of
directors, stockholders, executive committee, officers and agents
of the company may hold their meetings and transact the
company's business in or out of the State, and establish such
offices as they deem best in or out of the State, and all acts
done by said company, its officers or agents, out of the State
shall be of the same force and effect as if done within the State.
By the Code of Mississippi of 1880, under the heading
"Taxation of Railroads," taxation was provided for in certain
sections, summarized by counsel, in substance as follows
"Section 597 provides that each railroad company owning
and operating a railroad in this State shall, on or before the
third Monday m August in each year, file with the auditor of
public accounts a complete schedule of all its property, real or
personal, setting forth the length in miles or fractions of its
road-bed, switches and side tracks, and showing the number
of miles and fractions lying in the State, and in each county,
and in each incorporated town, and the value of the whole,
and each part as herein subdivided, capital stock, bonded
indebtedness, the gross amount of receipts, the rolling stock,
depot buildings, workhouses and machine shops, car shops, and
stationary machinery, and the county and town in which situated, and the land on which they are situated, together with
all other real, mixed and personal property
"Section 599 requires The auditor, when this schedule has
been filed, and also in cases when it has been refused, is directed to notify the governor of the State of the fact, who
shall proceed to convene the auditor, treasurer and secretary
of State, who, thus convened, shall assess the value of each railroad for purposes of taxation and shall certify the same to the
auditor of public accounts.

YAZOO R AILROAD CO. v. THOMAS.
Statement of the Case.

"Section 600 provides the means of ascertaining the items
and value of the property The board is directed to value
the entire road and property, that value is to be divided into
the number of miles in the State, and the valuation for each
county is to be according to the number of miles of the road
in each. The number of miles for the State shall be the product for state taxes, and the number of miles in each county
the product for county taxes, and, having thus ascertained
the sums to be taxed, they shall certify the same and the facts
to the auditor.
"Under section 601 may be added ten per cent on the
amount of taxes assessed against railroad companies failing or
refusing to file schedules as directed by section 597, or filing
unfair ones.
"Section 603 provides that when the valuation so ascertamed and certified has been furnished to the auditor, he shalt
ascertain the taxes due the State and counties, and notify the
companies of the amounts due to the State, by*letter or other
wise, and shall certify the sums to be taxed in the several counties for county purposes to the clerk of the Chancery Court of
the county, and the amount to be taxed by cities and towns
to the mayor thereof, and the sums so certified shall be entered
on the collector's books, to be collected as other taxes; and by
section 604 the auditors shall collect the taxes due the State
by distress warrants issued to any sheriff, authorizing the
seizure and sale of personal property in the county and,
should the personal property be insufficient, the auditor may,
sell the entire road and franchise to the highest bidder, and
the purchaser shall be put in possession.
"Section 605. The county taxes are to be collected as all
other taxes.
"Section 606. Railroad property situated in any city or incorporated town may be taxed for city or town purposes, upon
a valuation thereof made upon the same basis as the property
of individuals, and this section is to apply to the foregoing as
well as to the following modes of taxation herein provided
for.
"Section 607 provides that every railroad accepting this

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

act, and annually paying to the auditor of public accounts the
taxes hereinafter provided for, and signifying its acceptance
in writing, shall be exempt from all the foregoing provisions,
except section 606 in relation to cities and towns, and such payinent shall be in full of all state and county taxes, fifty per
cent of the amount paid to be placed to the credit of the
counties through which the railroad may pass, to be divided
amongst them according to the number of miles in each.
Lands owned by such railroad companies, and not used in
operating the roads, shall be taxed as other property and for
all purposes.
"Section 608. Each railroad company whose line is in whole
or in part in this State shall, if it accepts the provisions of this
act, pay to the state treasurer, on the warrant of the auditor,
on or before the 31st day of December, in each and every
year, a privilege tax as follows, to wit [Here follows a list of
the existing railroads in the State, their names being given
and the sunis required of each.] Provided, That no railroad
company shall be subject to taxation under this chapter while
the same is in process of construction, but if any part of any
road shall be finished and used for profit, the part so used
shall be taxed although the whole road may not be finished."
Code Mississippi, 1880, 194 et seq.
In 1884, section 604, so far as it provided for putting a pur
chaser of a railroad under the tax sale therein mentioned, in
possession of the road, was repealed, and section 607 was so
amended as to give to the counties two-thirds, instead of fifty
per cent, of the privilege tax.
Section 608 was amended so as to read
"Each railroad company whose line is in whole or in part
in this State shall, if it accepts the provisions of this act, pay
to the state treasurer, on the demand of the auditor, on or
before the fifteenth day of December in each and every year,
a privilege tax as follows, to wit [then follow the names of
the companies, not including appellant.] All the railroads
not named herein, and not exempt from taxation by their
charters, sixty dollars per mile Prowded, That no railroad
company shall be subject to taxation under this chapter while

YAZOO RAILROAD CO. v. THOMAS.
Statement of the Case.

the same is in process of construction - but if any part of any
road shall be finished and used for profit, the part so fimshed
shall be taxed, although the whole road may not be finished nor where the same is now exempt from taxation by its charter." Laws Mississippi, 1881, 29, 30, c. 22.
In 1886, the privilege tax for all railroads was increased
twenty-five per cent. Laws Mississippi, 1886, 23.
April 3, 1888, the legislature of Mississippi passed an act
entitled "An act to provide for the assessment of past due
and unpaid taxes on railroads which have escaped the payment thereof," the first section of which is in these words
"That every railroad which has failed to pay the taxes for
which the same was liable, for any year for which it was so
liable, such railroad not being exempt by law or its charter
from taxation for such years, and so being liable to taxation,
shall be assessed for, and shall pay an ad valorem tax, to be
assessed as hereinafter provided, unless such railroad shall,
within sixty days after the passage of this act, pay the taxes
for which the same was liable according to its charter, or
shall pay the privilege taxes for which the same was liable,
as follows If a standard or broad gauge road, for the years
prior to 1884, eighty dollars per mile, for the years 1881 and
1885, one hundred dollars per mile, and for the years 1886
and 1887, one hundred and twenty-five dollars per mile, and,
if a narrow gauge, or not standard or broad gauge road, for
the years prior to 1884, forty dollars per mile, for the years
1884 and 1885, fifty dollars per mile, and for the years iS86
and 1887, sixty-two dollars and fifty cents per mile." Laws
of Mississippi, 1888, 49, c. 28.
Section two provides that sixty days after the passage of the
act, the tax-collectors of the several counties through which
any railroad runs, which has failed to pay the taxes for which
it was liable, and failed to avail itself of the provisions of the
first section and paid taxes according thereto, shall assess, as
additional assessment, every such railroad in their respective
counties for the several years for which taxes have not been
paid, on lists duly prepared for that purpose by the IRailroad
Commission, whose duty it shall be to prepare such lists imme-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

diately after the passage of the act and then proceeds with
other particulars in relation to the valuation, assessment and
collection, referring to various sections of the code, so far as
applicable.
Under this act, taxes, amounting to $58,000, were assessed
against appellant for the years 1885, 1886 and 1887, in respect
to parts of its line which were operated in those years for
business as a carrier, the road not having been completed to
the Mississippi River.
On the 17th of July, 1888, appellant filed its bill in the
Chancery Court of Hinds County against Thomas and others,
the appellees here, who were sheriffs and tax-collectors of the
several counties through or into which the road extended, to
enjoin the collection of the taxes so assessed upon its railroad
property, as unauthorized and illegal. The illegality complained of was, that the tax was in violation of the company's
charter, by which it was insisted, the property of the company
incident to its railroad operations was exempted from taxation, and it was averred that the charter, as respects the exemption claimed, was a contract "irrevocable and protected
by the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States, that the unwarranted application of the general laws
subsequently passed, as well as the application of the general
laws in force at the time, is equivalent to a direct repeal of
the charter exemption, that it is an effectual abrogation of
its privilege of exemption by means of authority exercised
ander the State."
To this bill the defendants demurred. The demurrer was
sustained, and the bill dismissed by the Chancery Court, and
the complainant appealed to the Supreme Court of the State
of Mississippi. The decree of the court below was affirmed by
that court, and to this judgment of affirmance the plaintiff in
error sued out the pending writ of error. The opinion of the
Supreme Court was delivered by Arnold, C. J., and is as
follows
"Statutes exempting persons or property from taxation,
being in derogation of the sovereign authority and of common
ight, are, according to all the authorities, strictly construed.

YAZOO RAILROAD CO. v. THOMAS.
Counsel for Parties.

As taxation is the rule and exemption the exception, the intention to create an exemption must be expressed in clear and
unambiguous terms, and it cannot be taken to have been intended when the language of the statute on which it depends
is doubtful or uncertain. Legislation which relieves any species of property from its due proportion of the burdens of
the government must be so clear that there can be neither
reasonable doubt nor controversy in regard to its meaning.
Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed. 204, Bailey v Magwmire, 22 Wall.
215, Ficksburg cc. Railroad v Dennis, 116 U. S. 665,
.Frantz
v Dobson, 64 Mississippi, 631.
"In the light of these principles we are unable to find anything in the charter of appellant to warrant the exemption
claimed in this case. It is quite plain to us that the exemption created by section eight of appellant's charter, Acts of
1882, p. 84:7, was intended to commence from and after the
completion of a railroad to the Mississippi River and was to
continue thereafter for twenty years if the road was completed
to the river in five years irom the date of the approval of the
act, but liable to be diminished by whatever time beyond five
years was consumed in the completion of the road to the
river.
"At the time appellant's charter was enacted, railroads m
process of construction were not taxable under the general
laws of the State, (Code, ยง 608,) and this may account for the
charter providing exemption from taxation after the completion of the road and none during the period of its construction."
Together with arguments upon the merits a motion to dismiss was also submitted.
Hfr Ames _Fentress and -M TF P Harris, (with whom
was Xr J B. Harr-s on his brief,) for plaintiff in error, submitted on their briefs.
.Mr M3farcellus Green, (with whom was Mr S. S. Calkoon
on the brief,) for defendants in error, submitted on his brief.
Mr T M. Miller also filed a brief for the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmon of the Court.

Mn.

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi did not put its decision
upon the ground that it was not competent under the state

constitution for the State to contract with the company that
the latter should not be subjected to taxation, but upon the
ground that the exemption claimed could not be allowed.
The taxes in question were assessed under the act of 1888, and
if the charter of the company, which became a law on the
17th of February, 1882, inhibited such taxation, then this
court has jurisdiction to re-examine the conclusion reached.
Although by the terms of the act of 1888 the taxes therein
referred to were not to be levied as against a railroad exempt
by law or charter, yet the Supreme Court held that this
company is not exempt, and is embraced within the act, so
that if a contract of exemption is contained m the company's
charter, then the obligation of that contract is impaired by
the act of 1888, which must be considered, under the ruling
of the Supreme Court, as intended to apply to the company
The result is the same, although the act of 1888 be regarded
as simply putting in force revenue laws existing at the date of
the company's charter, rather than itself imposing taxes, for if
the contract existed those laws became inoperative, and would
be reinstated by the act of 1888. The motion to dismiss the
writ of error is therefore overruled.
By the eighth section of the company's charter it was
declared "that said company, its stock, its railroads and
appurtenances, and all its property in this State necessary or
incident to the full exercise of all the powers herein granted
-not to include compresses and oil mills-shall be exempt
from taxation for a term of twenty years from the completion
of said railroad to the Mississippi River, but not to extend
beyond twenty-five years from the date of the approval of
this act, and when the period of exemption herein prescribed
shall have expired, the property of said railroad may be taxed
at the same rate as other property in this State." If the provision had terminated with the words "Mississippi River" it

YAZOO RAILROAD CO. v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

would not be open to argument m this court that the exemption claimed did not commence until the river was reached.
In Vick8sburg, Skeveyort & Pac-fic Railway Company v
Dennts, 116 U S. 665, it was held that a provision in a rail-

road charter by which "the capital stock of said company
shall be exempt from taxation, and its road, fixtures, workshops, warehouses, vehicles of transportation and other appurtenances, shall be exempt from taxation for ten years after the
completion of said road within the limits of this State," did not
exempt the road, fixtures and appurtenances from taxation
before such completion. It was argued there, as it is here,
that the legislature, while exempting the railroad from taxation for ten years after its completion, could not have intended
to subject it to taxation before its completion, and when its
earnings were little or nothing, on the other hand, it was
argued there, as it is here, that one reason for defining the
exemption of the railroad and its appurtenances from taxation,
as "for ten years after the completion of said road," without
including any time before its completion, was to secure a
prompt execution of the work and to prevent the corporation
from defeating the principal object of the grant, and prolonging its own immunity from taxation by p4stponmg or omitting
the completion of a portion of the road, but this court said,
speaking through Mfr. Justice Gray- "Each of these arguments
rests too much on inference and conjecture to afford a safe
ground of decision where the words of the statute creating the
exemption are plain, definite and unambiguous." It appeared
there, as it does here, that the taxing officers of the State had
omitted in previous years to assess the property, but it was
held that such omission could not "control the duty imposed
by law upon their successors, or the power of the legislature,
or the legal construction of the statute under which the
exemption is claimed." And the court took occasion to reiterate the well-settled rule that exemptions from taxation are
regarded as in derogation of the sovereign authority and of
common right, and, therefore, not to be extended beyond the
exact and express requirements of the language used, construed seritwssmiyurm.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Tested by that rule, did the addition of the words "but not
to extend beyond twenty-five years from the date of the
approval of this act," operate to create an exemption of twentyfive years from the date of the act subject to being reduced to
less than that if the road were completed to the river before
the lapse of five years, but for twenty years at all events, or
did it operate to reduce the term of the twenty years' exemption
by so'much as the completion of the road to the river took over
five years 9 Upon the one view there would be a loss of
exemption through rapidity of construction, in the other
view, a gain, or, rather, the prevention of a loss. Does it
appear by clear and unambiguous language that the State
intended to surrender the right of taxation for twenty-five
years2 If the surrender admits of a reasonable construction
consistent with the reservation of the power for a portion of
the longer period, then for that portion it cannot be held to
have been surrendered. Is not the construction that the
exemption was to be for a term of twenty years, subject to a
diminution of that term if the river were not reached m five
years, as reasonable as the opposite construction, and if the
latter construction be adopted, would it not be extending the
exemption beyond w~at the language of the concession clearly
requires9 Can an exemption expressly limited to a term of
twenty years after the accomplishment of a designated work,
but not to extend beyond twenty-five years from a certain
date, be read as an exemption for twenty-five years, but not to
extend beyond twenty years from the completion of that work 2
It seems to us, notwithstanding the able and ingenious arguments of appellant's counsel, that these questions answer themselves, and that the exemption claimed cannot be sustained.
By the general law of the State of Mississippi in force at
the time the charter of appellant was granted, it was provided
that no railroad company should be subject to taxation while
the same was in process of construction, but if any part of
any road should be completed so as to be used for profit, the
part so used should be taxed, although the whole road might
not be finished. It is admitted that the taxes here were
levied in respect to parts of the road which were in operation.

YAZOO RALROAD CO. v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

The second section of its charter empowered the corporation to build and construct, and thereafter use, operate, own,

and enjoy a railroad or railroads into, along, and across that
part of the State lying between the Mississippi 'River and the
Chicago, St. Louis and New Orleans Railroad, "one of said
lines, or a branch therefrom, to reach the Mississippi River at
or near a point opposite Arkansas City if practicable, so as to
connect such point on the east bank of the Mississippi River
with some point or points on the line of the Chicago, St.
Louis and New Orleans Railroad," and by section seven it
was empowered to "build, construct, maintain, and operate of
itself, or with others, in or out of this State, a ferry across, or
a tunnel under, or a bridge over, the Mississippi River, at any
point within this State where its railroads, branches, laterals
or spurs may reach said river, " and to acquire lands, etc., for
landings, wharves, inclines, etc., and to establish said landings,
wharves, inclines, etc., as might be necessary or convenient in
transporting freights, passengers, etc., upon and across said
Mississippi River. In our opinion it cannot be doubted that a
principal object of the grant to the company was the building
of a line across the State from the Chicago Railroad to the
Mississippi River, and that the point of contact was to be
opposite Arkansas City, if that were practicable. Five years
was contemplated as sufficient to complete the road to the
river, so that the twenty years' exemption should commence.
By the thirteenth section it was provided that the legislature
might declare the charter forfeited, if twenty miles were not
constructed and in operation within three years from the passage of the act. This indicates that the legislature did not
assume that the line might probably be extended to the river
m less than five years, and were not thereby induced to insert
the twenty years as a limitation on the twenty-five. No reason
is perceived for limiting the exemption to begin with the completion of the railroad to the Mississippi River, if it were intended that the exemption should be for more than twenty
years at all events, commencing with the approval of the
act.

The question when the property may be taxed is answered

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

Opinon of the Court.
by ascertaining when the period of the specified exemption
begins, for until then the general law provided that while
the road could not be taxed during the process of construction, such parts as were finished and in operation could be,
though they might be for a time exempt under the charter
after the line was completed to the Mississippi River. When
the Mississippi River was reached then the period of exemption would begin, but how long it would continue would
depend upon the length of time to elapse before the end of
twenty-five years from the approval of the charter. And this
disposes of the argument that it is immaterial whether the
period of exemption is twenty or twenty-five years, because it
is agreed that the property could not be taxed until the period
of exemption, whatever that is, shall have expired, for that
ignores the real inquiry, which is as to when the exemption
commences.
Again, the preamble to the act is referred to by counsel, as
sustaimng their construction, because it is therein declared that
the work is one of 1 great public importance,'.' and "to be encouraged by legislative sanction and liberality," and that "the
physical difficulties of constructing and maintaining railroads
to, across, along or within either the Mississippi, Sunflower,
Deer Creek or Yazoo bottoms or basins, or the other alluvial
lands herein referred to, are such that no private company has
so far been able to establish a railroad and branches developmg said basins and alluvial lands, and connecting them with
But as the preamble is
the railroad system of the country"
no part of the act, and cannot enlarge or confer powers, nor
control the words of -the act, unless they are doubtful or ambiguous, the necessity of resorting to it to assist in ascertaining the true intent and meaning of the legislature is in itself
fatal to the claim set up. Indeed, what is therein stated
appears to us to be quite as referable to the remarkably extensive powers granted as to the assignment of reasons for
exemption from taxation.
It is true that it is stated in section eight, that, in order to
encourage the investment of capital in the enterprise, and "to
make certain in advance of such investment, and as inducement

YAZOO RAILROAD CO. v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

and consideration therefor, the taxes and burdens which this
State will and will not impose thereon," the exemption is
thereby declared. Yet if, notwithstanding that statement,
the matter were left uncertain, that would not allow the court
to make it certain by construction, and to remove ambiguity
upon the presumption of a legislative intent contrary to the
fixed presumption where the rights of the public are involved.
In short, there can be no uncertainty in the result when the
language used is construed, as it must be, in accordance with
thoroughly settled principles. After stating the exemption in
controversy, section eight concludes as follows "And when the
period of exemption herein prescribed shall have expired, the
property of said railroad may be taxed at the same rate as
other property in this State. All of said taxes to which the
property of said company may be subject in this State, whether
for county or State, shall be collected by the treasurer of this
State and paid into the state treasury, to be dealt with as the
legislature may direct, but said company shall be exempt from
taxation by cities and towns."
Since upon the expiration of the period of exemption, it
would have followed that the property of the company would
be subject to taxation at the same rate as other property, it
may be that the object of the final clause was to create a
scheme of taxation peculiar to the road. Upon the comprehensiveness and validity of such scheme we do not undertake
to pass. It was not to take effect until the exemption expired, and the terms in which it was couched do not render
the commencement of the exemption other than the Supreme
Court held it to be.
The case is clearly controlled by our decision in icksbwlg,
Shreve port & Pacific Railway Conmany v Dennts, supra,
and the judgment must therefore be
Affirmed.

