ROBERTSON v. BRADBURY.

491

Syllabus.

ROBERTSONT v. BRADBURY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 58. Argued November 22, 1889.-Decided December 16, 1889.

Section 7 of the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488, c. 121, repealing Rev.
Stat. §§ 2907, 2908, took effect immediately upon the passage of the act.
Contemporaneous construction by the Treasury Department of a repealing
clause in the customs-laws is entitled to weight in favor of importers.
Prior to March 7 1883, a collector of customs in the United States was
required by law, under penalty for non-performance, to ascertain the
dutiable value of imported goods by adding to their cost at the place of
production the cost of transporting them to the place of shipment to the
United States and of the box or case in which they were enclosed. This
aggregate was called their price or value " free on board," which, in the
absence of fraud, was taken to be their dutiable value. The act of March
3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488, c. 121, § 7, repealed this provision of law. Shortly
after this section took effect, and in ignorance of its passage, a shipment
of goods produced in Switzerland was made at Antwerp, the consular
invoice of which contained in detail the original cost of the goods in
Switzerland, the cost of transportation separately stated, and the aggregate "free on board at Antwerp." On their arrival at the port of New
York the consignee cabled for a new invoice, to conform to the changed
law. One was sent, but without a consular certificate. The consignee
presented both invoices at the custom-house and asked to use the second as explanatory of the first, and to enter the goods at their net value,
charges off. The weigher's return at the custom-house showed a less
quantity of goods than that stated in the invoice. The custom-house
officers required the importer to enter the goods at their dutiable value
according to the first invoice and gave hun to understand that that was
all he could~do. The collector decided and the Secretary of the Treasury
affirmed the decision on appeal, that the cost of transportation, etc., was
not to be deducted from the dutiable value of the goods, and that the
duties were to be collected on the quantity as shown by the invoice; Held,
(1) That the levy of duties after March 3, 1883, on a valuation including
the charges of transportation from the place of production to the
place of shipment was contrary to law.
(2) That under the circumstances the importer was not bound to ask for
an appraisement under Rev. Stat. § 2926.
(3) That the collector was not entitled to exact a duty upon a deficiency
in weight arising from loss of goods and not from shrinkage.
(4) That the payment of the duties under these circumstances was not
voluntary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
-Opinion of the Court.

THIS was an action against a collector of customs to recover
duties alleged to have been illegally exacted. Verdict for the
plaintiff and judgment on the verdict. The defendant sued
out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.
_Y' Asswstan t Attorney General -Nlaury for plaintiff in error.
A& Edward -Hartley and 2fr Walter 1. Coleman for defendant in error.
.Ar Edwiln B. Smhtk, on behalf of parties interested m the
question, filed an additional brief by leave of court upon the
question when section 7 of c. 121, act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat.
488, took effect.
MR. JusTicE BRADLEY delivered the opimon of the court.
This is a suit to recover alleged excess of duties exacted on
certain cargoes of asphaltum in cakes, imported by Bradbury,
the plaintiff below, from Antwerp, in May, 1883. Two questions are presented in the case for our determnation. First,
whether the 7th section of the act of March 3d, 1883, entitled
"An act to reduce internal revenue taxation, and for other
purposes," 22 Stat. 488, c. 121, went into effect at the time of
the passage of the act, or not until the 4th of July following,
Secondly, if it did go into effect at the time of the passage
of the act, whether, under the circumstances of this case, the
plaintiff below was entitled to the benefit of that section.
Prior to the passage of the act referred to under the 2907th
and the 2908th sections of the Revised Statutes, (which were
taken from the 9th section of the act of July 28th, 1866,14 Stat.
330, c. 298,) the collector, in determining the "dutiable value"'
of merchandise, was required to add to the cost, or actual
wholesale price or general market value, at the time of exportation, in the principal markets of the country whence the
goods were imported, the cost of transportation, shipment and
transshipment,'with all the expenses included, from the place
of growth, production, or manufacture, to the vessel in which
shipment was made to the United States, also the value of the

ROBERTSON v. BRADBURLY.
Opinion of the Court.

sack, box, or covering, and commissions and brokerage, which
additions were to be regarded as part of the actual value, and
a penalty was imposed for not including them. These sections
were repealed by the 7th section of the act of March 3d, 1883.
They are repealed by words m the present tense, thus: "That
sections twenty-nie hundred and seven and twenty-nine hundred and eight
be, and the same are hereby, repealed,
and hereafter none of the charges imposed by said sections,
or any other provisions of emisting law, shall be estimated in
ascertaining the value of goods to be imported." We do not
see how there can be any doubt that this repealing section
went into immediate effect. The law itself went into immediate effect, although, it is true, various provisions of it, contained in other sections, were postponed to take effect, some
on the first of July and some on the first of May But where
such postponement was intended it was expressed, and only
referred to the parts that were so postponed. It did not affect
the section in question. And such was the understanding of
the Treasury Department itself at the time. In a Treasury
circular of March 12th, 1883, addressed to the collectors of
customs, the Secretary, referring to the act m question, then
just passed, said "Yrarious sections recite the date when each
shall go into effect, and, so far as concerns these sections,
those dates control. Section (, however, names specifically
no date when it is to go into operation, and the department
holds that it takes effect from and after the date of the passage of the act." This cotemporaneons construction is entitled
to some weight in favor of importers. Un-ted States v Johnston, 124 U. S. 236, 253. At all events it was undoubtedly
the correct construction.
The question then arises whether the plaintiff below, by anything that took place in the entry of the goods at the customhouse, or by any omission to do what the law required, precluded himself from being entitled to the benefit of this statute.
Under the old law, the cost or value of the goods at the
place of production was often merged for convenience with the
costs of transportation to the place of shipment and the other
charges, and the aggregate was called the price or value "free

OCTOBER TERIT, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

on board" of the vessel in which the goods were shipped to
the United States. This price or value, free on board, or
f o. b., in the absence of fraud, represented the "dutiable
value," subject, of course, to correction by appraisement.
When the vessel arrived, and the consignee presented the
entry at the custom-house, it was accompanied with the invoice, showing this price or value. In the present case,
although the goods were shipped in April, the consignors in
Europe, not being aware of the passage of the act of March
3d, 1883, repealing sections 290.7 and 2908, made out the invoices in the usual way, stating the price of the goods as free
on board at Antwerp, including therein the original cost of the
goods at the mines, near Neufchatel, Switzerland, their cost of
transportation from Neufchatel to Antwerp, and the other
charges required by the repealed sections. This invoice was
duly certified by the consul at Mannheim, Germany Before
the entry of the goods, a corrected supplementary invoice had
arrived, in answer to a telegram, and was presented at the
time of the entry, but it had no consular certificate -that
being supplied afterwards. On the trial of the cause, the
plaintiff introduced evidence tending to show these facts. He
produced the entry, which described the importation as "12,000 cakes, 300,000 kilometers asphaltum, marks 15,750, $3749,"
with the usual consignee's oath that the invoice and bill of
lading produced with the entry were the true and only ones
received, and that the invoice exhibited the actual cost or fair
market value at Neufchatel of the goods and all charges
thereon. The invoice, certified by the consul, on which the
entry was based, was also produced in evidence, representing
the goods as "a quantity of asphaltum, 300,000 kilograms, at
52.50 marks per 1000 kilograms, 15,750 marks, free on board
- Antwerp." There was attached to this invoice on making
the entry, and when produced in evidence, the uncertified,
supplementary invoice before referred to, which represented
the goods as "a quantity of asphaltum, 300,000 kilograms,
value at the mines, 34.50 marks per 1000 kilos., MI 10,350.
Freight and charge from the mines to Antwerp, free on board,
at 18 marks per 1000 kilos., 5400. Free on board Antwerp,
marks 15,750."

ROBERTSON v. BRADBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

Attached to the consular invoice was the oath of the owner
of the goods, which stated, among other tnngs, that said invoice contained the actual cost and quantity thereof and of all
charges thereon. The certificate of the consul attached to
said invoice was dated 20th of April, 1883, and certified,
among other things, that the invoice, "in which are mentioned
and described certain asphaltum, amounting with the charges
thereon to the gross sum of, marks, 15,750, was produced to
him by the owner," and that the actual market value of the
goods (except as corrected by him) was correct and true.
The plaintiff further offered evidence to show that, being
charged with duties on the entire amount of 15,750 marks,
he protested against the assessment on the ground that the
defendant "assessed duty upon the cost of transportation,
shipment and transshipment, with all expenses included, from
the place of production and manufacture to the vessel in which
the shipment was made to the United States, contrary to section 7 of the act of March 3, 1883," claiming "that said charges
were not subject of appraisement or duty," and on a second
ground that the weigher's return showed a less quantity than
that on which duty was charged, and that he paid the excess
of duties exacted under compulsion solely for the purpose of
obtaining the goods.
An appeal was taken to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
affirmed the decision of the collector, on the ground that the
deduction for charges had not been made m the entry, and
the action was brought within proper time thereafter.
A. W Patterson, the plaintiff's custom-house broker, testified
that he presented the two invoices above named at the customhouse on the entry of the goods, that he made the entry for
the plaintiff, that he asked to make the entry on both the
consular and supplemental invoices, the latter as explanatory
of the former, that the custom-house officers refused to allow
this to be done, that he asked permission to use the supplemental invoice in connection with the other invoice as explanatory, and enter in the net value, charges off, which was
refused, that he then entered the goods according to the
consular invoice, that the supplemental invoice had come in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

answer to a telegram to the leufchatel Asphaltum Company,
to furnish a corrected invoice, showing what the charges were,
that subsequently to the entry-of the goods a copy of the
supplemental invoice was' received, properly certified by the
consul. (This copy was admitted in evidence.) The weigher's
certificate was also produced, showing a deficiency of 2740
pounds of asphaltum in the cargo of the Marshall, and over
9000 pounds in that of the Edith, for which no refund of duty
had been made. The witness Patterson further testified as
to the meaning of the expression "free on board," as before
stated.
Potter, an examiner in the appraisers' department, testified
that he passed the entry in question, and endorsed it "correct,"
which merely meant that the entry was sufficient to cover the
market value of the goods. He further testified that he found
from memory, and by comparison with other goods in the
same markets, that the market value of these goods was 34
marks 50 pfenmgs, or 35 marks at the mines, at the place
of production. Being asked if he had passed, as a rule, mvoices of asphaltum from Mannheim, Germany, for a considerable period before and after that time at the same rate of 34.50,
he said that would be impossible to say without the papers,
but he presumed that that was about the market value. On
cross-examination he stated that he had no recollection as to
what he found the market value of this importation to be, independent of what was written upon the entry and invoice.
To the question "Have you any recollection at all of what
you did, in fact, find the market value in the principal foreign
ports to be 2" his answer was "Yes, I have that recollection,
because it is so stated on the invoice (supplemental); that 34
marks 50 pfennigs per thousand kilograms was about the
usual price, and it seems to have been stated there on the invoice." To the further question, "Then, as I understand, the
effect of your testimony is that from looking at the supplemental invoice you form the impression that the value at that
time at the mines was 34 marks and 50 pfennigg per thousand
kilograms 9" his answer was "Yes, sir."
Esterbrook, chief liquidating clerk of the custom-house, tes-

ROBERTSON v. BRADBURY.
Opimon of the Court.

tifed that, according to the course of business in the customhouse, under the law, the entered value is the value declared
upon the entry under oath, and that the practice is, that the
collector shall not levy duty on less than the entered value,
though the amount in the invoice is less. Another clerk testified to the same effect.
Thereupon, the evidence being closed, the counsel for the
government moved that the jury be directed to find for the
defendant upon the following grounds. 1, that the evidence
does not show the duty exacted on any amount in excess of
the invoice value, 2, nor in excess of the entered value, 3, nor
does it make out a case of recovery for the plaintiff. The
court having denied this motion, the counsel then made a request to charge fourteen separate propositions, the substance
of which was that under section 2900 of the Revised Statutes,
which declares that "1the duty shall not, however, be assessed
upon an amount less than the invoice or entered value," the
collector was bound to assess the duty on the amount stated
in the entry and m the invoice certified by the consul, and
could not take notice of the uncertified invoice, and that if
the plaintiff desired to have the invoice corrected, his remedy
was to demand an appraisement under section 2926 of the
Revised Statutes, which provides that merchandise, of which
incomplete entry has been made, or an entry without specification of particulars, either for want of the original invoice or for
any other cause, or which has received damage during the
voyage, shall be conveyed to a warehouse and there remain
until the particulars, cost or value, as the case may require,
shall have been ascertained, either' by the exhibition of the
original invoice, or by appraisement, at the option of the
owner, importer or consignee, and until the duties shall have
been paid or secured to be paid.
The court declined to adopt the propositions of the counsel,
but charged the jury that as the invoice certified by the consul
purported to show the value of the goods "free on board at
Antwerp," if the jury were satisfied by the evidence that this
meant that the value so expressed included charges, the charges
of transportation and placing on board" ship, - charges from
VOL. cxxx-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the markets of the country to the ship - then it was not an
invoice of the "dutiable value," but was an incomplete invoice,
that if this was its character, the importer or consignee had a
right to claim that it was incomplete, and to ask that the
goods be appraised, or that he might amend his invoice. The
charge then proceeded as follows "You have heard Mr.
Patterson testify as to what occurred when he presented this
invoice to the entry clerk.
Now, if he was given to
understand when he presented that invoice there and stated
that he wanted to get the charges out in some way, and presented this additional paper -you heard his testimony about
what he did-if he was given to understand that he must
enter those goods at the value expressed that is, the value
including the charges, the value expressed in the invoices,
and m no other way, and that they could not get along in
any other way than that, then he was not bound to ask for an
appraisement. If they gave him to understand that that
was the only thing he could do, if they met him right there
when he wanted to put in this additional invoice, and said the
only thing you can do is to enter these goods at this value,
and the importer was compelled to do it in order to proceed
at all, and he yielded to that, then he was not bound to say
anything about an appraisement. But if they did not do that,
if they merely refused that and gave him a chance to ask for
an appraisal if he wanted to, and he did not ask for it, he
mistook his remedy, and the plaintiff cannot recover, and it
was his fault that he did not enter them right. But if they
cut him right off on that subject and said he must enter at
this larger value, then it was their fault, and the plaintiff can
recover if duties on charges were collected."
The court further charged, that if the examner, who appraised the goods, appraised their value in the principal markets of the country whence they came, in the shape they were,
(that is, in cakes,) at 34 marks 50 pfennigs, that was their dutiable value and the collector exacted a duty in excess for charges,
whether he called them charges or not, and the plaintiff should
recover what he paid for this duty on charges, because the law
of 1883 took out charges as a part of the dutiable value; but

ROBERTSON

v. BRADBURY

Opinion of the Court.

that. if tins was not the value that the appraiser took, when
he says he did appraise the goods, and the jury cannot tell
what it was, then they cannot tell what duty was paid on
charges, and the plaintiff has not made out his case.
As to the deficiency in weight, the counsel for the government contended, and asked the court to charge, that the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover anything in respect to the
difference between the weights stated in the invoices and
entries and the weights stated in the official weigher's returns.
The court declined so to charge, and instructed the jury that
if the deficiency arose from the loss of goods on the passage,
a proportionate reduction should be made, but not if it arose
from mere shrinkage, and if all the goods that were sent
arrived.
The counsel for the government excepted to each part of the
charge as given, and to each refusal to charge as requested.
We do not think that the court below committed any error
in its instructibns or in its refusals.
First. In regard to the construction and effect of the consular invoice which expressed the value of the goods "free on
board," it was perfectly proper and right to instruct the jury
that if they were satisfied from the evidence that this form of
valuation was understood to include charges of transportation
from the place of production to the place of shipment, and
other charges of shipment and transshipment, then the levy
of duties on such valuation, since the passage of the act of
1883, was contrary to law, and that the plaintiff could recover
back the duties levied on the amount of such charges, provided
he took the proper course to avail himself of the error. This
is so evident that it needs no discussion to make it plainer.
Secondly As to the course winch the plaintiff did pursue,
we see no error in the position taken by the court, that
although the statute prescribed a particular method to be followed under section 2926 of the Revised Statutes, in case of
an incomplete entry of goods, or an entry without the specification of particulars, (namely, to convey the goods to a warehouse, there to remain until the particulars, cost or value
should be ascertained either by the exhibition of the original

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

invoice, or by appraisement,) yet if, when the importer or
consignee pointed out the imperfection, and desired to correct
it, or have it corrected, he was met by a declaration of the
officers that he must enter the goods at the value expressed
m the invoice and in no other way, and was given to understand that that was the only thing he could do, and he was
compelled to do that in order to proceed at all, then he was
not bound to ask for an appraisement under the statute. The
case was prejudged against him. The theory of the customhouse officers evidently was, that the valuation of the goods
in the entry and invoice was binding on the importer, although
in that valuation he had inadvertently included charges for
transportation, and other charges, exempted from duty by the
act of 1883, and that it was his own fault for having so
included such charges, and that he was estopped from disputing the valuation thus made and sworn to, even though
qualified by the words "free on board," which could have no
effect to alter the valuation. It is not stated ibL these words,
but that was the tendency of the evidence, and we think that
the jury were properly instructed on the subject.
Thirdly As to the deficiency in the weight of the goods, as
the value was measured by the weight, both in the invoice
and by the appraiser, namely -so much per 1000 kilograms,
-we think the court was right in telling the jury that any
deficiency arising from loss of goods, and not from mere
shrinkage, was a proper subject of recovery If goods are
damaged or affected intrinsically, that is a matter for examination and appraisement under section 2927, Revised Statutes,
but if any portion of them has never come to hand but has
been actually lost, the case would seem to come within the
spirit of section 2921, which says that "if, on the opening of
any package, a deficiency of any article shall be found on
examination by the appraisers, the same shall be certified to
the collector in the invoice, and an allowance for the same be
made in estimating the duties." The appraiser's certificate in
the present case related merely to pro rata value, and not
was ascertained and certified by the
to quantity, -that
weigher. If only half of the cargo was found on board the

