JACK v. UTAH TERRITORY.
Opinion of the Court.

by an appointment made by the governor and the council of
the Territory, as required in the act of Congress.
The judgment of the Sufreme Court of the Teritory q1
Utah -isaffirmed.

JACK v. UTAH TERRITORY
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 144. Argued December 5, 1889. -Decided

January 6, 1890.

Clayton v. Utah, ante, 632, affirmed and applied to this case.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr Eppa Hunton, (with whom was .M> Jeffersom, Chandler
on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr Soliettor GeneraZ for appellee.
MR.

XUSTIOE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case, which is an appeal from the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah, differs from the preceding case of Clayton against the same appellees, in the fact that Tack was
charged with usurping and intruding into the office of territorial treasurer for the Territory of Utah, as Clayton was
alleged to be an intruder into the office of auditor of public
accounts. These two offices were created by the same statute
of the Territory, at the same time, and the mode of election
prescribed by that statute was changed at the same time by
the same statute to an election by the people, and Jack claims
to have been elected treasurer at the same general election in
which Clayton was elected auditor, that he received the commission of the governor of the Territory, and that he has held
the office e-v er since by reason of the fact that no other election
had been held and no other person had been lawfully appointed to the office. The same principles govern this case as

OCTOBER TER-l,

1889.

Statement of the Case.

govern the other. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah was based upon the same grounds, and
for the reasons given by us in that case we affirm the judgment in this.
Afflrmed.

'UITED STATES v. CARR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA-IS.
No. 411.

Submitted December 3, 1889.-Decided January 6, 1890.

When a sum of money has been voluntarily paid by the United States to a
mail contractor, by mistake of fact, or under circumstances to bring the
payment within the provisions of Rev Stat. ยง 4057, the amount may be
applied by the government towards the payment of any balance that may
be found due him, in the settlement of his accounts, for other services
under his contract.
A contract to carry the mails from one station to another station, by way of
two intervening specified stations, a stated number of miles and back, is
not performed by carrying them over that route one way, returning from
the terminal station to the place of beginning by a shorter route, avoid-

ing the intermediate stations.
When a contractor for carrying the mails seeks to recover the full contract
price, for a service which, as actually performed, was less than that contracted for, the burden of proof is on him to show knowledge or information by the Department of his conduct in the premises.
Knowledge by the Post-Office Department of the failure of a mail contractor
to perform the full service required by his contract is not to be presumed from reports of the local postmaster to the Department that the
service had been performed.

CARR filed his petition against the United States in the Court
of Claims on the 17th of February, 1885, averring that the
Postmaster General entered into a contract in writing with
him in April, 1878, for carrying the mails of the United States
from Salinas City, in the State of California, to Gabilan, in
that State, and back from Gabilan to Salinas City for the annual sum of $796, a copy of which contract he attached to his
petition, that at the time of the letting of the contract, and
for upwards of four years prior thereto, the mails were carried
upon the route aforesaid, outward from Salinas to Santa Rita,

