MVARCHAND v. EIXEN.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence, as well as with its conclusions of law

Rabasse v.

Police Jury of Terrebonne Parzsbh, 30 La. Ann. 287.
In short, there is nothing in the present case, which can be
called, in any legal or proper sense, either a statement of facts
by the parties, or a finding of facts by the court, and no
question of law is presented in such a form as to authorize this
court to consider it.
Judgment qfrmed.

MARCHAND v. EMKEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 37. Argued October 25, 1889. -Decided

November 25,1889.

Claim 1 of letters patent No. 273,569, granted to Charles Marchand, March
6, 1883, for an improvement in the manufacture of hydrogen peroxide,
namely "1. The method of making hydrogen peroxide by cooling the
acid solution, imparting thereto a continuous movement of rotation, as
well in vertical as in horizontal planes- such, for example, as imparted
by a revolving screw in a receptacle -and adding to said acid solution
the binoxide in small quantities, while maintaining the low temperature
and the rotary or eddying movements, substantially as described," is invalid, as not covering any patentable subiect matter.

for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill. Plaintiff appealed. The case is stated in
the opinion.
IN

EQUITY

-Mr WTI. L. Zee for appellant.
hun on the brief.

Mr B. F Zee was with

No appearance for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by
Charles Marchand against Frederick Emken, to recover for the
infringement of letters patent No. 273,569, granted to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff March 6, 1883, for an improvement in the manufacture of hydrogen peroxide.
The specification says "This invention has reference to
the manufacture of hydrogen peroxide, or oxygenated water,
by addition of barium or calcium binoxide to an acid (sulphuric, nitric, acetic, oxalic, hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, hydrofluosilic, and the like), the binoxide having been mixed with
water. Heretofore hydrogen peroxide has been made by adding the barium or calcium binoxide, mixed with water, to the
diluted acid, the binoxide being added from time to time in
small quantities, the vessel in which the operation is conducted being set m a refrigerating medium, and the liquid
being agitated or stirred to facilitate the reaction. The stirring
has been performed by hand. The present invention is based
on the fact or discovery that the reduction of the barium or
calcium binoxide takes place under conditions much more
favorable in point of rapidity and yield when the acid to be
neutralized is given a movement of rotation, both vertically
and horizontally, by a screw or other suitable means, which at
the same time creates both constant and ever-changing eddies,
the said movement of rotation being imparted continuously
during the addition of the binoxide. The present invention
consists, therefore, first, in imparting to the acid a movement
of rotation, the time required for the chemical reaction being
thereby lessened, while the reaction itself is more complete."
The specification gives a description of the apparatus which
it says is preferably to be employed and forms part of the
invention, in substance as follows: There is a receptacle for
the acid, and a jacketing vessel, in which the receptacle rests,
for containing the refrigerant or cooling medium. There is a
rotating screw and a vertical power-shaft. The acid receptacle need not be of any particular size, but a good capacity is
from five hundred to one thousand gallons. It is preferably
hemispherical, but may be cylindrical, frustoconical, or of
dther suitable form, and it is made of or lined with material
adapted to resist the action of the acid. For use with hydrofluoric acid, a sheet-iron or, better, a copper vessel lined with
lead may be used, or one of platinum, gold, or silver, or one

MAROHAND v. EIEKEN.
Opinion of the Court.

otherwise rendered non-corrodible. The screw is provided
with helicoidal blades, ordinarily two, three, or four in number, set obliquely on the arbor or screw-shaft. The blades
are preferably pierced with holes. The screw is suspended in
the receptacle, being detachably connected with the lower
end of the power-shaft by two pieces, one fixed to the powershaft, and the other to the screw-shaft, and clamped together
by bolts. On the screw-shaft, above the top of the receptacle,
is fixed a disc of wood or other suitable material, which
catches the oil from the bearings of the power-shaft, and
other foreign matters that otherwise would be liable to fall
into the receptacle. The power-shaft is suspended in its bearings by suitable collars, which enable it to support the screw,
and is driven from a horizontal shaft, through bevelled gearing, or by other well-known or suitable mechanical means.
The length of the screw-shaft is such that the blades of the
screw do not in operation touch or scrape the interior of the
receptacle. The jacketing vessel is of ordinary or suitable
construction. The cooling medium commonly employed therein may be placed in it. The vessel being filled with the cooling medium, the proper quantities of acid and water (say
twenty parts, by weight, of acid to one hundred parts of
water, or other suitable proportions) are placed in the receptacle. The screw is put in motion, and the binoxide of
barium or calcium, in the state of a more or less thick emulsion or milk, is added in small quantities. The revolving
screw imparts a movement of rotation more or less rapid to
the liquid, producing eddies therein and constantly changing
the material, and the chemical reaction takes place very regularly and completely Sufficient binoxide is added to secure
the complete neutralization of the acid without rendering the
hydrogen peroxide too alkaline. After a certain time, which
varies with the quantity of the article manufactured and the
amount of binoxide employed, and during which the screw
may be stopped, but is preferably kept in revolution, the production of the hydrogen peroxide is finished. It only remains
to allow the matters in suspension to settle and to decant the
clear liquor. If it is desired to obtain the hydrogen peroxide

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

in a state of greater purity than results from the above, the
clear liquor is subjected to special chemical treatment, which,
as it constitutes no part of the present invention, is not
described.
Only the first clain of the patent is involved in this suit.
That claim reads as follows "1. The method of making
hydrogen peroxide by cooling the acid- solution, imparting
thereto a continuous movement of rotation, as well in vertical
as in horizontal planes - such, for example, as imparted by a
revolving screw in a receptacle - and adding to said acid solution the binoxide in small quantities, while maintaimng the
low temperature and the rotary or eddying movements, substantially as described."
The answer sets up, among other defences, that the alleged
invention and patent do not contain any patentable subject
matter. After a replication, proofs were taken, and, on a
hearing, the court, held by Iudge Coxe, entered a decree dismissing the bill with costs. From this decree the plaintiff has
appealed. The opinion of the court is found in 23 Blatchford,
435, and 26 Fed. Rep. 629.
It appears from the record that the first claim was three
times rejected by the Patent Office, and was -then,on appeal,
allowed by the examiners-in-chief, who said in their decision.
"In the present case, the essence of the invention.resides in
imparting to the liquid, while making hydrogen peroxide as
above, a peculiar motion- one which cannot be given by
hand-a continuous movement of rotation, horizontally in
opposite directions from the centre, or radially and vortically,
or nearly so, according to the shape of the vessel, a vortical
motion designated in German as w'belbewegung', the movement of a smoke ring, making what may be termed a ring
vortex." They suggested an amendment to the specification,
to make it clear that the invention was "no more than in this
particular art, all the other steps being old, imparting to the
liquid undergoing chemical change this old motion, this motion produced, for example by the egg-beater."
The opinion of the Circuit Court says: "It is not pretended
that the complainant discovered hydrogen peroxide, or the

MAR{CHAND v. EMKEN.
Opmion of the Court.

method of adding barium, mixed with water, from time to
time, to the diluted acid, or the necessity for stirring or agitating the liquid. Neither did he invent the obliquely bladed
screw, the hemispherical receptacle, the jacketing vessel or any
part of the apparatus described in the specification. All this
was old and well known. The patent itself illustrates how extremely circumscribed was the theatre of invention." It then
refers to the fact that the descriptions, in the specification, of
the prior process and of the patented process are substantially
the same, except that in the former the stirring was performed
by hand, and in the latter it is performed by machinery The
opinon then proceeds "The question, then, seems to be narrowed down to this: Does it constitute invention to stir, by a
well-known and simple mechanical device, what had before
been stirred by hand 2 The complainant desired to manufacture in large quantities what had before been produced chiefly
in the laboratory He knew how hydrogen peroxide had been
made, every step in the formula was familiar. A mixture
that needed stirring, and a vessel provided with a revolving
stirrer, were ready at his hand. He put the former into the
latter. This was all. The object of agitating the liquid, while
making hydrogen peroxide, is to keep the barium, which is
three times as heavy as water, suspended in the acid, so that
its particles may come in contact with the particles of acid.
Whether they come in contact while going round, rising, settling or remaimng stationary, can make no difference. Divest
the case of the air of mystery with which it is environed, and
it seems simple enough. The complainant's predecessors knew
that to keep the barium up in the solution they must stir it.
The complainant knew this. Unlike them, however, he manufactured on.a scale large enough to make it essential to employ
a power-shaft. The oar-shaped sticks which formerly went
round and round by hand now go round and round by machinery" The court then refers to the contention of the plaintiff that, by the method set out in the patent, a movement was
given to the acid which had never before been imparted to it
in the manufacture of hydrogen peroxide, because "the liquid
is thrown out towards the circumference of the vessel at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

bottom, rises at the sides, returns to the centre, and then descends, to be again thrown out at the bottom, while at the
same time it is carried round and round;" and says that this,
"being reduced to still simpler language, means, that the machine will stir large quantities of the liquid more thoroughly
than the hand-worked paddles." It adds "The pretence that
the complainant had discovered some occult and wonder-working power, in the motion of a screw revolving in the bottom
of a tub, is not sustained by the proof. Whether the contents
of the tub be oxygenated water, or soap, or lye, or tartaric
acid, the action will be the same. That rotary, eddying motions m liquid will result from the revolving screw, that the
liquid will rise highest at the periphery of the tub, and thus
have the tendency, at the top, to fall towards the centre, were
well-understood operations of centrifugal force. As every device, apparatus, formula, law of nature, motion and ingredient
adopted by the complainant was old, the patent must be held
invalid, unless it can be said that giving to oxygenated water
a well-known rotary motion springs ' from that intuitive faculty
of the mind put forth in the search for new results or new
methods, creating what had not before existed, or bringing to
light what lay hidden from vision.' -Hollisterv Benedict.3anufacturmg Co., 113 U. S. 59, '72. No such faculty has been
tasked in giving form to this patent. There is here no sufficient foundation upon which to rest a claim which, if construed
as broadly as the complainant insists it should be, practically
makes all pay tribute who stir the mixture m question by
machinery, and by hand also, provided substantially the same
movement can be produced by hand-stirring, and this seems to
be a disputed question upon the proof. The complamant's
claim to be enrolled upon the list of inventors is .based upon
propositions too theoretical and visionary for acceptance."
See, also, Dreyfus v Searle, 124 U. S. 60; Crescent Brewzng
Co. v Gotried,128 U. S. 158.
A careful consideration of the evidence and of the arguments
on the part of the appellant (no brief having been submitted
on the part of the appellee) induces us to concur m the views
of the Circuit Court.
Decree cafflrmed.

