ROEMER v. BERNHED.
Statement of the Case.

As therefore the diagonal brace to enable the scraper to be
kept in its place on the track, is the only element of the combination which is claimed to be new, and that involves no
patentable novelty, the decree must be
Afflrmed, and it zs so orde'ed.

ROEMER v. BERNUEIM.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 52. Argued and submitted November 1, 1889.- Decided November 11, 1889.
The granting or refusal, absolute or conditional, of a rehearing in equity,
rests in the discretion of the court, and is not a subject of appeal.
After a suit in equity for the infringement of a patent has been heard and
decided in favor of the defendant on the merits, the plaintiff cannot put
in evidence a disclaimer, except at a rehearing granted by the court,
upon such terms as it sees fit to impose.
Letters patent No. 208,51, granted to William Roemer, September 1, 1878,
for improvements in locks for satchels, are void for want of novelty.

THIS was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent-No. 208,541, granted to the plaintiff September 1, 1878,
for improvements in locks for satchels, with the following
specification and claims
"Be it known that I, William Roemer, of Newark, county
of Essex, and State of New Jersey, have invented a new and
improved lock for satchels, travelling-bags, &c., of which the
following is a specification
"This invention relates to certain improvements in the construction of lock-cases of the kind described m letters patent
Nos. 190,907 and 195,233, which were granted to me May 15,
1877, and September 18, 1877, respectively
"The principal object of the invention is to reduce the expense of the lock-case, and to render .the same more practical
in form and construction.
"The invention consists, principally, in forming the body of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the lock-case with open ends, and in combining the same with
cast blocks or end pieces, which are separately made, all as
hereinafter more fully described.
" In the accompanying drawing, Fig. 1 represents a bottom
view of my improved lock-case. Fig. 2 is a vertical longitudinal section of the same, and Fig. 3 is a vertical transverse
section of the same on the line c c, Fig. 1. Similar letters of
reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures.
"The letter A in the drawing represents the body or central
portion of the lock-case. The same is made of sheet metal or
other suitable material, and bent into a U form, substantially as
indicated in Fig. 3, so as to form the top a and the sides b b of
the lock-case. The bottom of the lock-case is open, and the
ends of the portion A are also open.
"B B are pieces of cast metal or other suitable material, constructed to fit into the open ends of the body A, into which
these blocks or plugs B B are inserted, as clearly shown in Fig.
2. Each block B should have a shoulder, d, to limit the degree
of its insertion into the shell A, or of the insertion of the shell
into the block.
"In use on a satchel or carpet-bag, the ends B B, after being
inserted into the shell A, or mce versa, in manner stated, are
fastened to the satchel or bag by a bolt or pin that passes
through an aperture, e, of the shell A, and through a corresponding aperture,f, of the block B, there being one such bolt
or pin at or near each end of the piece A, but the plugs or
end pieces B B may also be secured by additional or separate
bolts, if desired, and so may also the shell A. The blocks B
may also serve, if desired, to secure the ends of the handle or
the catches which close the jaws of the bag, and for other suitable purposes.
"The lock portion proper is, of course, contained within the
shell A, the drawing indicating the bolt C, which is moved by
means of the handle g. The other parts -ofthe lock are not
necessary to show By casting the pieces B B the same mold
may be used for both pieces B B of one lock-case, and the entire case is made very inexpensive and yet practicaL The ends
are adapted to shells A of suitable or varying lengths.

ROEMER v. BERNIEIM.
Statement of the Case.

"I claim"1. In a lock-case, the combination of the body A, having
open ends, with the end pieces, B B, that are applied thereto,
substantially as herein shown and described.
"2. The end pieces, B B, of a lock-case, made with shoulders
d, for defining their positions relative to the body A, substantially as and for the purpose specified."
After an answer denying in due form novelty and infringement, and a general replication, the case was heard upon the
pleadings and proofs m the Circuit Court, which rendered and
filed an opinion dismissing the bill, and holding that while the
defendant's lock would be an infringement of the plaintiff's patent if the claims were good, yet, in view of the prior state of the
art, the claims were void for want of novelty, unless they could
be so limited by construction as to make end pieces, provided
with notches or recesses to hold handle rings or catches, an essential feature of the invention and that they could not be so
limited, because, although the drawing showed end pieces provided with such notches, the notches were not in terms referred
to, either in the specification or in the claims, as a part of the
invention, nor in any way alluded to, except in the incidental
observation in tlie specification that the blocks or end pieces
"may also serve, if desired, to secure the ends of the handles
or the catches which close the jaws of the bag." 26 Fed. Rep.
102.
Immediately afterwards the plaintiff filed in the Patent
Office a disclaimer stating that he had reason to believe (being
so informed by that opinion) that through inadvertence the
specification and claims of the patent were too broad, including
that of which the plaintiff was not the first inventor, and, therefore, disclaiming in each claim "any blocks, B, that have not
the notches formed in them as shown in the drawing for holding the handle rings, as described in the specification," and
thereupon, in order to.enable him to avail himself of the disclaimer, filed a motion for a rehearing, and, upon the court
declining to entertain the question upon that motion, filed a
formal petition for a rehearing, which the court, upon argument and consideration, granted upon condition that the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff should pay to the defendant all costs of suit up to the time
of filing that petition, to be taxed by the clerk. The costs
having been taxed accordingly, and the plaintiff having stated
through his counsel in open court that he was unable to comply with the condition, a final decree was entered, dismissing
the bill, with costs, and the plaintiff appealed to this court.
_lr Arthur v. Besen, for appellant, submitted on his brief.
.MXr J E.. Hindon Hyde for appellees.
Betts filed a brief for same.

.Mr Frederc H.

iMR. JUSTiE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
After the case had been heard and decided upon its merits,
the plaintiff could not file a disclaimer in court, or introduce
new evidence upon that or any other subject, except at a rehearing granted by the court, upon such terms as it thought
fit to impose. The granting or refusal, absolute or conditional,
of a rehearing in equity, as of a new trial at law, rests in the
discretion of the court in which the case ha8 been heard or
tried, and is not a subject of appeal. The terms imposed as a
condition precedent to a rehearing not hawng been complied
with, the disclaimer was not in the case.
The construction which the court gav to the claims of the
patent as originally issued was indisputably correct. So construed, it is hardly denied by the plaintiff, and is conclusively
proved by the evidence, that the patent is void for want of
novelty
Decree affirmed.

