HILL v. WOOSTER.

Syllabus.
hor disability as a married woman had already prevented the

statute from running during her lifetime, their disability, according to the law of Texas, cannot be added to hers. It was
decided by the Supreme Court of Texas in the cases of White
v Latimer, 12 Texas, 61, and eMeasters v Mills, 30 Texas,
591, that one disability cannot be tacked to another so as to
prolong the disabilities beyond the continuance of that winch
existed when the cause of action accrued. See, also, Wood on
Limitations, ยง 251, and notes. According to this rule the statute commenced to run at the death of. Adaline S. Worrall, on
the 4th of November, 1870. If this be so, as we think it is, the
complainants in the cross-bills are barred by the statute of
limitations.
The new statute of limitations contained in the Revised
Statutes, which went into effect on the 1st day of September,
1879, does not materially differ, so far as its application to the
present case is concerned, from the old statute of 1841, and it
is explicit in declaring that "the period of limitation shall not
be extended by the connection of one disability with another."
Rev Stats. Texas, 1879, Art. 3225.
In our judgment, the statute of limitations is a complete bar
to the claims set up by the complainants both in the original
and in the cross-bills, whether we are right or not m regard to
the validity of the Rutledge title.
The decree of the Circuit Court zs afirned.

HILL v. WOOSTER.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
No. 10. Argued November 19, 20, 1889. -Decided January 13, 1890.

In a suit in equity, brought under ยง 4915 of the Revised Statutes, in a Circuit Court of the United States, there was a decree in favor of the plaintiff, that he was entitled to receive a patent for certain claims. The decision rested solely on the fact that he was the prior inventor, as between

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
him and the defendant. On appeal by the defendant to this court; Held,
that this court must consider the question of the patentability of the
inventions covered by the claims, and that, as they were not patentable,
the decree must be reversed, and the bill be dismissed.

IN EoQnTY. The suit was brought under section 4915 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States to determine to whom a
certain patent, yet to be issued, covering certain improvements
in milk-setting apparatus, belonged. Decree in favor of the
plaintiff, from which the defendants appealed.
The case is
stated in the opinion.

.Mr William, Edgar Simons for appellants.
M" Stephen C. Shurtlef for appellee.

MR. JusricE BLAT0HFOnD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity; brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Vermont; by Daniel B.
Wooster against Samuel Hill, Benjamin B. Prentice, and The
Vermont Farm Machine Company, under section 4915 of the
Revised Statutes, which reads as follows "Whenever a patent
on application is refused, either by the Commissioner of Patents
or by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia upon appeal from the Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy
by bill in equity, and the court having cognizance thereof, on
notice to adverse parties and other due proceedings had, may
adjudge that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to
receive a patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or
for any part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear. And
such adjudication, if it be in favor of the right of the applicant, shall authorize the Commissioner to issue such patent on
the applicant filing in the Patent Office a copy of the adjudication, and otherwise complying with the requirements of law
In all cases, where there is no opposing party, a copy of the
bill shall be served on the Commissioner, and all the expenses
of the proceeding shall be paid by the applicant, whether the
final decision is in his favor or not."
The substance of the allegations of the bill is as follows

HILL v. WOOSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Wooster, on the 17th of January, 1879, filed in the Patent
Office an application for a patent for an "improvement in
The Commissioner of Patents declared an
milk-coolers."
between
that application and letters patent No.
interference
207,738, granted September 3, 1878, to said Hill and Prentice,
for an "improvement in milk-coolers," an interest in which
patent had been assigned to the defendant The Vermont Farm
Machine Company Testimony was taken, and priority of invention was adjudged by the Patent Office in favor of Wooster, in respect to the claim in issue in the interference, and
Wooster, by a separate application for that purpose, was
granted a patent containing that claim, on the 14th of June,
1881, No. 242,805, for an "improvement in milk-coolers." On
the 30th of March, 1880, Hill and Prentice fied an application
for a patent for an "improvement in milk-setting apparatus."
They also, on the 10th of November, 1880, filed an application
for a reissue of their patent No. 207,738. Both of the lastmentioned two applications were declared to be in interference
with the application of Wooster, of January 17, 1879. Testimony was taken by both parties, and the Commissioner of
Patents decided to grant a patent for certain of the claims to
Hill and Prentice, or to The Vermont Farm Machine Company as their assignee, and refused to grant a patent for them
to Wooster. Four of those claims arose on the application
filed by Hill and Prentice on the 30th of March, 1880, and
were as follows.
"1. The combination, with a cabinet provided at its top
with a cover or lid and having a door in its side, of an ice
receptacle located in the upper portion of the cabinet, and an
elongated milk receptacle, the upper portion of which is
located within the ice receptacle and its discharge conduit
arranged to extend below the ice receptacle.
"2. In a milk-cooling apparatus, the combination, with a
cabinet or box having its top and side provided with covers
or doors, of a vertically elongated milk receptacle provided
with a discharge-regulating valve or stop-cock at its lower
end, and an ice receptacle having an open top and surrounding the upper portion of the milk receptacle.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"3. A milk-cooling apparatus consisting essentially of a
vertically elongated milk receptacle, provided with a discharge
opening at its lower end, an ice receptacle having an open top
and surrounding the upper portion of the milk receptacle, and
a cabinet having a cover which extends over the milk and ice
receptacles, and with a side door for preventing admission
of the outer air to the lower portion of the milk receptacle,
when desired.
"4. A milk-cooling apparatus, consisting of a cabinet provided with an upper and lower compartment, an ice receptacle
having an open top and located in the upper compartment of
the cabinet, a vertically elongated milk receptacle, the upper
portion of which is located in the ice receptacle and its lower
end constructed to project downward into the lower compartment of the cabinet, and a valve or stop-cock connected with
the lower end of the milk receptacle."
The decision against Wooster and in favor of Hill and
Prentice covered three other claims, which arose on Hill and
Prentice's application for a reissue, filed November 10, 1880,
but it is not necessary further to allude to them, as there is no
contest in this court in regard to them.
The bill contains the following statement as to the invention of Wooster
"The object of your orator's invention being to provide a
milk-cooler of such construction that a milk receptacle of
a depth greater than its width may have its upper portions
only subjected to cold, and thus cause the contained milk to
rise and descend in reverse vertical currents. The upper strata
of milk, being subjected to cold, will part in whole or in part
with its cream, and then descend, its place being supplied by
an ascending current of warmer milk from the lower portion
of the vessel. And, further, .to provide the milk-cooler with
a combined ventilator and filter, whereby the milk may be
thoroughly ventilated. And, further, to provide a milk-cooler
with a transparent eduction tube, to be attached to the lower
portion of the cooling vessel, whereby the milk can be easily
or readily inspected while being drawn from the cooler and
the milk and cream accurately separated and deposited in
separate vessels."

HILL v. WOOSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill prays for a decree adjudging Wooster to be the
first inventor "of the invention embraced in the claims hereinbefore set forth, and entitled, according to law, to receive a
patent for said invention."
The answer of the defendants denies that Wooster was the
first inventor of either of the claims marked 1, 2, 3 and 4, and
avers that Hill and Prentice were the first inventors thereof,
and are entitled to a patent for those claims.
The cause was put at issue by a replication, voluminous
proofs were taken, and the case was heard by Judge Wheeler.
His opinion is reported as TWooster v Hill, 22 Fed. Rep. 830.
In the Patent Office, the examiner of interferences awarded
priority of invention to Hill and Prentice, in regard to the
above claims 1, 2, 3 and 4. On appeal to the examiners-inchief by Wooster, they affirmed such decision of the examiner
of interferences. On an appeal by Wooster to the Commissioner of Patents, the latter affirmed the decision of the
examiners-in-chief, and afterwards denied a motion for a
reconsideration of his decision.
The opinion of the Circuit Court discusses the questions
involved solely as questions of fact as to priority of invention,
as between Wooster on the one side and Hill and Prentice on
the other, and states that considerable evidence was produced
before the court which was not before the Patent Office.
The court was of opinion that Hill and Prentice were the first
inventors of an open-box creamery standing on legs, with the
lower part of the cans extending through the bottom of the
box downward, and the upper part surrounded by water in
the box, for cooling the top of the milk in the cans, as shown
in the patent No. 207,738, granted to them on September 3,
1878. The "cabinet" mentioned in the four claims before
recited applied to a cabinet creamery closed all the way down,
but having a door in front, for access to the lower part of the
can, in contradistinction to an open-box creamery standing
on legs. The court was of opinion, on the evidence, that
Wooster was the first inventor "of the cabinet creamery as an
improvement upon the box creamery, as that is shown in the
patent of Hill and Prentice." It thereupon entered a decree

OCTOBER TER-,

1889.

Opimon of the Court.

adjudging that Hill and Prentice were not the original, first
and joint inventors of the improvements set forth in the four
claims before recited, and that Wooster was the original and
first inventor of the improvement called a cabinet creamery,
set forth in those four claims, and was entitled to receive a
patent therefor, as set forth in his application filed January
17, 1879. From this decree the defendants have appealed to
this court.
The provision of section 4915 is that the Circuit Court may
adjudge that the applicant "is entitled, according to law, to
receive a patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or
for any part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear;"
and that, if the adjudication is m favor of the right of the
applicant, it shall authorize the Commissioner to issue the
patent. It necessarily follows that no adjudication can be
made in favor of the applicant, unless the alleged invention
for which a patent is sought is a patentable invention. The
litigation between the parties on this bill cannot be concluded
by solely determining an issue as to which of them in fact
first made a cabinet creamery A determination of that issue
alone, in favor of the applicant, carrying with it, as it does,
authority to the Commissioner to issue a patent to him for the
claims in interference, would necessarily give the sanction of
the court to the. patentability of the invention involved.
The parties to the present suit appear to have been willing
to ignore the question as to patentability in the present case,
and to have litigated merely the question of priority of invention, on the assumption that the invention was patentable.
But neither the Circuit Court nor this court can overlook the
question of patentability
The bill claims a patent for what
it alleges was invented by Wooster as a patentable invention,
and the answer of the defendants is founded upon the view
that Hill and Prentice were the first inventors of the improvements covered by the four claims in question, as patentable
inventions.
We are of opinion that nothing in those four claims constitutes a patentable invention. A cabinet constitutes an element
in each of the combinations covered by the four claims. This

HILL v. WOOSTER.
Opinion of the Court.

cabinet is nothing more than a boxing or covering in of the
open space forming the lower part of the prior open-box
creamery standing on legs. In the application of Wooster,
filed January 17, 1879, in an amendment filed by hun March
29, 1879, he says "I am aware that long rectangular milk
receptacles have been provided with a water-chamber extending around the upper portion thereof; also, that water-coolers
have been enclosed within a box or casing, and their upper
ends enclosed within an ice receptacle having a perforated
bottom, also, that a milk receptacle has been provided with
an ice receptacle extending through the centre of the same, and
hence I would have it understood that I do not claim the construction above referred to."
In the application of Hill and Prentice, filed March 30,
1880, they say in the specification "The lower chamber or
compartment serves to protect that part of the milk vessel
which is in contact with this chamber from free contact with
the outer air, preventing the temperature from unduly varying, and it also serves as a suitable place wherein to store
butter, milk, or dairy appliances, this being practically a refrigerating chamber."
In the decision of the examiners-in-chief on appeal, made
July 12, 1882, they say "The idea of applying a cooling
medium to the top of milk cans while the bottom should be
exposed to the ordinary temperature of the dairy-room was
old, and Wooster expressly disclaim any broad pretension to
such method, and says that he is aware that milk receptacles
have been provided with a water-chamber around the upper
portion, and that water-coolers have been boxed and their
upper parts enclosed in ice receptacles and the lower end perforated, and milk receptacles been provided with an ice receptacle extending through the centre of the same. So, to start
with, we find that whatever either has done is. merely to
improve upon means for more effectually carrying out this
mode of treating milk, to obtain the best results in raising and
securing cream. As a structure, the cabinet would seem
almost anticipated by the water-cooler of which the parties
made a double use, but this is not before us, except so far as

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

showing us to what a limited extent the examiner conceded
patentability of matter included in the claims allowed and put
in interference." The examiners-m-chief seem, therefore, not
to have considered that the question of patentability was
before them, but that they were limited to considering the
question-as to winch of the two parties first made the structure
in the form in which it was presented.
The examiners-in-chief proceed "When the parties came
to the office they undoubtedly supposed, each for hinself,
that they had made a great discovery in keeping the top of
the milk cool and the bottom warm. So we find that both
of them seem to have obtained new light in regard to the
state of the art, and, by repeated amendments, came down
to quite restricted claims. We now come down to the material matter Which of the parties devised and first reduced
to practice the box, with lid, enclosing the cooler tank, having
the elongated can extending through the bottom, etc. The
idea of drawing off the milk from the bottom was old, and
the glass to afford inspection was old. And which of them
conceived of and first reduced to practice the cabinet form, or
the above box and tank and can construction, with the lower
part of the can also enclosed2 It is certainly a very small
matter of invention, this enclosing the bottom part, after the
enclosing of the cooler tank, and after what has been done in
refrigerators and water-coolers."
In the brief of the defendants, who are the appellants here,
it is stated that the four claims in question "are confined to a
cabinet creamery," and "are simply for adding the lower compartment to a box creamery on legs." We are of opinion that
they are entitled to have the decree below reversed, on the
ground that it was not a patentable invention to add a lower
compartment to a box creamery on legs. The only allusion to
this question in the brief for Wooster, the plaintiff and appellee, is the remark that no question is made in the answer but
that one party or the other is entitled to a patent, and that,
therefore, evidence which does not tend to show which party
is entitled to the patent is irrelevant and should be suppressed.
This court, however, has repeatedly held that, under the Con-

HILL v. WOOSTER.
Opinon of the Court.

stitution and the acts of Congress, a person, to be entitled to
a patent, must have invented or discovered some new and
useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter,
or some new and useful improvement thereof, and that "it is
not enough that a thing shall be new, in the sense that in the
shape or form in which it is produced it shall not have been
before known, and that it shall be useful, but it must, under
the Constitution and the statute, amount to an invention or
discovery" The cases on this subject are collected in Thornson v Boisselier, 114 U. S. 1, 11, 12. To them may be added
Stephenson v. Brooklyn Railroad,114 U S. 149, Yale Iock
Co. v Greenleaf,117 U S. 544, Gardner v Herz, 118 U. S.
f8O Pomace Holder Co. v Ferguson, 119 U. S. 335, Hendy
v Min ers' Iron Works, 127 U S. 370, 375, Holland v Skh ley,
127 U. S: 396, Pattee Plow Co. v JKingman, 129 U. S. 294,
Brown v Distr ct of Columbza, 130 U. S. 87, Day v. Pasr
Haven and Ifestville Railway Co., ante, 98, Watson v. Cincnnati, Indianapolis&c. Railway Co., ante, 161, Mfarchandv
Emken, ante, 195, Royer v Roth, ante, 201.
The decree of the Circuit Court -is reversed, and the case ts
,remandedto that court Vzth a direction to dismss the bill,
wtth costs.

