OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

There is a bill of exceptions, which states that the plaintiff
read in evidence, without objection, the reissued patent, a copy
of the specification of which with the drawings is set forth,
and put in other evidence tending to show its right to recover
damages, that the defendant, "to sustain the issues on its
part," offered m evidence a duly certified copy of the original
patent, a copy of which with the drawings is set forth, that
the plaintiff objected to the introduction of the original patent,
on the ground that the same was immaterial and irrelevant to
any defence raised by the answer, that the court sustained
the objection, and that the defendant excepted to such ruling.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court committed an error
in excluding the original patent. It was relevant evidence
upon the question whether the reissue was "for the same
invention" as the original, and the issue on that subject was
sufficiently raised by the averment of the complaint and the
denial in the answer. The defendant was entitled to try that
question in a formal manner, and it could not do so unless the
original patent was introduced in evidence.
The judgment s reversed and the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court with a directon to award a new tral.

BROWN v. RANK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHINGTON.
No 99. Submitted November 13, 1889. - Decided November 25, 1889.

The defendant in a possessory action In the nature of ejectment, brought in
a court of Washington Territory where the laws permitted a mingling of
common law and equity jurisdictions, pleaded the general issue, and also
set up four defences, one of which was the statute of limitations, and
one of which was an equitable defence. The plaintiff filed a general
demurrer to the second, third and fourth defences. The demurrer being
overruled, the plaintiff elected to stand upon it, and the case was thereupon dismissed. Held, that the final judgment was one dismissing the
action at law, and was not a judgment in the exercise of chancery jurisdiction.

BROWN v. RANK.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated m the opinion.

.Mre Leaneder

olnmes, for appellants, submitted on his brief.

Mr 7 T Uptonr and Mr A. H. Garland, for appellee,
submitted on their brief.

M . CHIEF JUSTICE FULLFR delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appellants commenced a possessory action, m the nature of
ejectment, against appellee, in the District Court of the Second
Judicial District of Washington Territory, by complaint m the
ordinary form. To thi the defendant filed an answer, denying title in plaintiffs, and otherwise equivalent to the plea of
not guilty, and in addition pleaded affirmatively four defences,
setting up, among other things, the ten years' statute of limitations upon actions for the recovery of real property §§ 25,
*2@, Code Wash. Ter. 1881, 39. The fourth affirmative defence
was addressed to the judge of the District Court, and alleged
a variety of facts constituting, appellants contended, an equitable defence, if any at all, which they denied.
The plaintiffs filed a demurrer in these words
"And now come the plaintiffs and demur to the second,
third and fourth separate answers and defences of defendant
herein, for the reason that they do not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defence to this action."
This demurrer was disposed of, and judgment rendered as
follows
" This case coming on for hearing upon demurrer to the
answer, and having been submitted to the court on briefs of
counsel of plaintiffs and defendant, and the court, having fully
consicered.the questions presented by the pleadings on file in
this case, overrules the demurrer to the answer, to which ruling or decision the counsel for plaintiffs then excepted and
gave notice of his intention -to appeal, and the counsel for
plaintiffs having elected to stand upon the ruling of the court
upon saict demurrer, and not to reply or further plead to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

answer, the case is now here dismissed with costs against ihe
plaintiffs, to be taxed, and that execution issue therefor.
Whereupon counsel for plaintiffs excepted and gave notice
of appeal to the Supreme Court."
Appeal was accordingly prosecuted to the Territorial Supreme Court, under the act of the Territory "in relation to
the removal of causes to the Supreme Court," approved
November 23, 1883. Laws Wash. Ter. 1883, 59.
It was
held in Breemer v Burgess, 2 Wash. Ter. 290, that .this act
was cumulative and complete within itself, and did not repeal
§§ 458, 459 and 460 of the Code of 1881, relating to appeals
and writs of error (Code Wash. Ter. 1881, 114), and that
cases might be brought, up to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, either by the proceduit prescribed in the Code or
that in the statute of 1883. The Code provided for service of
a notice of appeal or writ of error, which should contain,
among other things, in case of appeal, "a particular description of every decision, ruling, order or decree," by which
appellant claimed to have been aggrieved, and which he relied
upon as ground for reversal or modification, and "in case of
a writ of error, a particular description of the errors assigned."
These requisitions were omitted m the act of 1883, but at its
July term of that year the Supreme Court adopted a rule,
which required, in all law causes brought up under that act,
an assignment of errors to be made m writing, filed and
served, substantially as provided for in section 458 of the
Code.
No assignment having been made, the appeal was dismissed
for non-compliance with the rule in that particular, Brown v.
Hazard, 2 Wash. Ter. 464, and the case comes before us on
appeal from the judgment of dismissal.
As the rule did not require such assignment in an equity
cause, the question passed upon was whether this cause should
be held as one in equity or at law, and the court decided that
it was the latter.
The act of Congress of April 7,1874, 18 Stat. 21, c. 80, "concerning the practice in Territorial courts and appeals therefrom," provided that it should not be necessary "in any of the

BROWN v. RANK.
Opinon of the Court.

courts of the several Territories of the United States to exercise
separately the common law and chancery jurisdictions vested
in said courts; and that the several codes and rules of practice

adopted in said Territories respectively, in so far as they
authorize a mingling of said jurisdictions or a uniform ,course
of proceeding in all cases whether legal or equitable, be conProvded, that no party has been or shall be
firmed,
deprived of the right of trial by jury in cases cognizable at
common law"
By subdivision 4 of section 76 of the Code of the Territory,
it was provided that "when the relief sought is of an equitable
nature, the complaint shall be addressed to the judge of the
district in which the action is brought," by subdivision 3 of
section 83, that "the defendant may set forth by answer as
many defences and counterclaims as he may have, whether
they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or
equitable, or both," and by section 445, that "every final
judgment, order, or decision of a District Court, or judge
thereof, in actions of an equitable nature, where equitable
relief is sought, or where chancery jurisdiction has been exercised, shall be reviewed in the Supreme Court by appeal."
Referring to these provisions, appellants' counsel contends
that the fourth affirmative defence, (and he insists the first
should be taken with it,) being an equitable defence, the cause,
by the action taken thereon, became "transformed into a
cause in chancery"
But the demurrer was to the second, third and fourth
affirmative defences, and the defendant had also pleaded the
general issue. The judgment upon demurrer held the three
affirmative defences good. The final judgment was one dismissing the action at law, and, upon the pleadings as they
stood, was not a judgment in the exercise of chancery jurisdiction. The Supreme Court correctly held that the cause
was at law and not in equity, and this being so, it is not denied
that the dismissal for non-compliance with the rule necessarily
followed.
T/ie judgmentts afflmed.

