CHARLOTTE NATIONAL BANK v. MORGAN.

141

Opinion of the Court.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHAIRLOTTE
MiORGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE

o.

E COURT OF THE STATE OF WORTH CAROLINA.

No. 50. Argued November 1, 1889.-

Decided November 11, 1889.

The exemption of national banks from suits in state courts in counties
other than the county or city in which the association was located, granted
by the act of February 18, 1875,18 Stat. 316, c. 80, was a personal privilege
which could be waived by appearing to such a suit brought in another
county, but in a court of the same dignity, and making defence without
claiming the immunity granted by Congress.
The provision in the act of July 12, 1882, 22 Stat. 163, c. 290, § 4, respecting suits by or agamst national banks, refers only to suits brought after
the passage of that act.
A national bank was sued to recover interest alleged to have been usuriously exacted. The complaint which was sworn to January 13, 1883,
charged that the usurious transactions took place "after the 12th day of
February, 1877 and before the commencement of this action, to wit, on
the 25th day of May, 1878, and at other times and dates subsequent
thereto." The defendant answered generally and set up the statute of
limitations. The jury found that usurious interest had been taken during the two years next before the commencement of the action, and
rendered a verdict for plaintiff, on which judgment was entered. The
defendant moved in arrest of judgment, and also for a new trial, on the
ground of a variance between the pleadings and proof Held, that,
although the complaint might have been more specific, enough was
alleged to sustain the judgment.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Hir *William-. Earle for plaintiff in error.
if&i Joseph B. Batchelor for defendant in error.
MM. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the Superior Court of Cleveland
County, North Carolina, by the defendant in error against the
plaintiff in error, a national banking association, established at
Charlotte, Mecklenburg County in that State. It was based
upon the provision of the Revised Statutes of the United
States authorizing any person, paying to any such association

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

a greater rate of interest than the law allows it knowingly to
take, receive, reserve, or charge, to recover from it, in an
action in the nature of an action of debt, twice the amount of
the interest so paid. Rev Stat. §§ 5197, 5198.'
The defendant filed an answer denying all the material

allegations of the complaint, and, in addition, pleaded in bar
the limitation of two years provided by Congress for actions
of this character. Rev Stat. § 5198.
The jury, in response to the issues submitted to them, found
that the plaintiff paid, on the usurious contracts described in
certain counts of the complaint, the sum of $554-.28, during
the two years next preceding the commencement of the action,
and returned a verdict against the bank for twice that sum,
Judgment was accordingly rendered for
namely $1108.56.

the latter sum in favor of Morgan. 2

1 The complaint contained four counts. It was sworn to on the 13th
January, 1883. The defendant pleaded the general issue to each count; and
to all, the statute of limitations. At the trial the court excluded evidence
under the first and third counts, but received it under the second and
fourth.
In the second count, the allegations as to the time when the alleged
transactions took place were as follows. " That the said defendant, after
the 12th day of February, 1877 and before the commencement of this
action, to wit, 25th day of May, 1878, and at other times and dates subsequent thereto, in the city of Charlotte, N. C., upon certain corrupt and
usurious contracts, made after the 12th day of February, 1877, as aforesaid,
to wit, on the 25th day of May 1878, and at other times and dates subsequent thereto, in the city of Charlotte, N. C., aforesaid, between the said
defendant, on the one part, and the plaintiff 6n the other part, took, ac
cepted, etc."
In the fourth count, those allegations were as follows. "That the said
defendant, after the 12th day of February, 1877 and before the commencement of this action, to wit, on the 25th day of March, 1877, and at other
times and dates subsequent thereto, in the city of Charlotte, N. C., upon
certain corrupt and usurious agreements and contracts made after the 12th
day of February, 1877, as aforesaid, to wit, on the 25th day of March, 1878,
and at other times and dates subsequent thereto, in the city of Charlotte,
N. C., aforesaid, between the defendant, on the one part, and the plaintiff
on the other part, took, accepted, etc."
2 After verdict the defendant moved in arrest of judgment, and also
moved for a new trial, on the ground of a variance between the allegations
and the evidence. Both motions were denied.

CHARLOTTE NATIONAJ BANK v.

TORG N.

143

Opinion of the Court.

That judgment, having been affirmed by the Supreme Court
of North Carolina, is here for reixamination. The principal
error assigned is that the only state court which, consistently
with the laws of the United States, could take cognizance of
this action, was one established in the county or city where
the bank was located, and which had jurisdiction in similar
cases.
By the 9th section of the Judiciary Acts of 1789, c. 20, § 9,
it was provided that tne district courts of the United States
of all
"shall also-have exclusive original cognizance
under
the
laws
of
the
suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred
United States." I Stat. 76, 77. This provision was in force
when the National Bank Act of Tune 3, 1864, was passed. 13
Stat. 99, § 57, c. 106, § 8. By that act it was declared that associations formed pursuant to its provisions "may make contracts, sue and be sued, complain and defend, in any court of
law and equity, as fully as natural persons" (§ 8), and that
"suits, actions and proceedings against any association,"
formed under it, "may be had in any circuit, district, or territorial court of the United States held within the district in
which such association may be established, or in any state,
county, or municipal court in the county or city in which
said association is located having jurisdiction in similar cases
Prowded, however, That all proceedings to enjoin the comptroller under this act shall be had in a circuit, district, or territorial court of the United States, held in the district in which the
association is located." § 57.
Section 563 of the Revised Statutes provides, that the district courts shall have jurisdiction of "all suits for penalties
and forfeitures incurred under any law of the United States,"
and § 629 declares that the circuit courts of the United States
shall have original jurisdiction of "all suits by or against any
banking association established in the district for which the
court is held, under any law providing for national banking
associations." Section 711 defines the cases in which "the jurisdiction vested in the courts of the United States" shall be "exclusive of the courts of the several States," and among such
are "all suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred -under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of the United States." But no subdivision of that section, in terms, embraces suits brought under the national bank
law by or against associations organized under it.
The revision omitted entirely that part of the act of 1864
(§ 57) designating the particular state courts in which suits,
actions, or proceedings against a national banking association
might be brought. That omission was remedied by the act of
February 18, 1875, entitled "An act to correct errors and
to supply omissions in the Revised Statutes of the United
States." 18 Stat. 316, 820, c. 80. By that act, § 5198 of the
Revised Statutes, (Title, National Banks,) giving the right
to recover back twice the amount of the interest illegally received by a national bank, was amended by adding thereto
these words "That suits, actions and proceedings against
any association under this title may be had in any circuit, district or territorial court of the United States held within the
district m which such association may be established, or m any
state, county, or municipal court in the county or city in which
said association is located, having jurisdiction in similar cases."
A suit against a national bank to recover back twice the
amount of interest illegally taken by it is a suit to recover a
penalty incurred under a law of the United States, and it may
be, that if the act of 1864 had been silent as to the courts
which might take cognizance of such a suit, it must, at any
time before the revision took effect, have been brought in the
proper court of the United States. But the acts of 1864 and
1875, authorizing certain state courts to take cognizance of
suits, actions and proceedings against national banking associations, had the effect, so far as suits for penalties incurred
under the laws of the United States were concerned, to modify
the provision in prior enactments that expressly excluded suits
for such penalties from the cognizance of state courts. When
the present action was brought, the jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States of suits for penalties incurred under
the national banking act for taking usurious interest, was not
exclusive of, but concurrent with, the jurisdiction of such state,
county, or municipal courts of the county or city in which the
bank was located, as had jurisdiction, under the local law, in

0HARLOTTE NATIONAL BANK v. MORGAN.

145

Opinion of the Court.

similar cases. This exemption of national banking associations
from suits in state courts, established elsewhere than in the
county or city in which such associations were located, was,
we do not doubt, prescribed for the convenience of those institutions, and to prevent interruption in their business that
might result from their books being sent to distant counties
in obedience to process from state courts. Bank of Bethel v.
Paquzoque Bank, 14 Wall. 383, 394, Crocker v .Marz e NTationalBank, 101 Mass. 200. But, without indulging in conjecture as to the object of the exemption in question, it is sufficient
that it was granted by Congress, and, if it had been claimed
by the defendant when appearing in the Superior Court of
Cleveland County, must have been recognized. The defendant did not, however, choose to claim immunity from suit in
that court. It made defence upon the merits, and, having
been unsuccessful, prosecuted a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State, and in the latter tribunal, for the first time,
claimed the immunity granted to it by Congress. This was
too late. Considering the object as well as the words of the
statute authorizing suit against a national banking association
to be brought in the proper state court of the county where it
is located, we are of opinion that its exemption from suits in
other courts of the same State was a personal privilege that
it could waive, and which, in this case, the defendant did
waive, by appearing and making defence without claiming the
immunity granted by Congress. No reason can be suggested
why one court of a State, rather than another, both being of
the same dignity, should take cognizance of a suit against a
national bank, except the convenience of the bank. And this
consideration supports the view that the exemption of a national bank from suit in any state court except one of the
county or city in which it is located is a personal privilege,
which it could claim or not, as it deemed necessary
It is proper to say that we lay no stress upon the proviso of
the fourth section of the act of July 12, 1882, entitled "An
act to enable national banking associations to extend their
corporate existence, and for other purposes." 22 Stat. 162,
163, c. 290, § 4. That proviso refers only to suits by or
VOL. cxxxI-10

