OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

invention, carried out by equivalent means. The improvement, if any, in the use of the circular clamp over the rectangular clamp was only a question of degree, in the use of
substantially the same means.
e are of oymzon that the decree of the Circuit Court must
be affrmed, and it w 8o ordered.

DENT v. FERGUSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 32. Argued April 23, 24, 1889.-Decided October 28, 1889.

The petition of a bankrupt in bankruptcy, in winch he states under oath
that he owns no real estate and holds no interest in real property, is evidence of the execution and validity of a prior deed of his real estate in
a suit in which he contests such execution and validity.
The proof in this case fails to show imbecility, dotage or loss of mental
capacity on the part of the appellee at the time when the contract in dispute was made.
An executed agreement by one party to cause the debts of the other to be
cancelled by his creditors, valid in its inception, is not invalidated as to
the debtor by reason of the settlements being effected for a small percentage, or even by the employment of improper means to effect them.
A conveyance by a debtor, deeply indebted, and in anticipation of decrees
and judgments which, added to existing incumbrances, will amount to
the value of the property conveyed, will lead a court of equity to presume that the instrument was executed in fraud of the creditors.
ff a person conveys his property for the purpose of hindering, delaying or
defrauding his creditors, and for many years acquiesces and concurs in
devices, collusive suits and impositions upon the court in furtherance of
that purpose, without taking any step to annul such conveyance or stop
such proceedings, a court of equity will not aid him or his heirs to recover the property from the grantee or his heirs after the fraud is accomplished.
The maxim "iii par delicto, 1potior est conditio defendentis" is decisive of
this case.

THIS was a suit in equity originally brought in the Chancery
Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, on the 10th of December,

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Statement of the Case.

1881, by the appellees, heirs-at-law of Alexander M. Ferguson,
deceased, against the appellants, heirs-at-law and legal representatives of Henry G. Dent, deceased. Upon application of
the complainants, the case was removed into the United States
Circuit Court for the Western District of Tennessee on the
ground of the diverse citizenship of the parties.
The object of the original and the two amended and supplemental bills was to recover from the defendants a large
amount of real property alleged to have belonged to A. M.
Ferguson, deceased, and to have been fraudulently obtained
from him by Henry G. Dent, deceased, and also to have set
aside and annulled the agreement, deeds and judicial proceedings by wich such fraudulent acquisition was effected.
The instrument which the complainants most especially
sought to have delivered up and cancelled purported to be an
absolute agreement and conveyance of a large amount of real
property situated in Memphis, Tennessee, executed by Ferguson to Dent, and was as follows
"This agreement, made this 14th day of Mav, 1869, by and
between A. M. Ferguson, of the first part, and H. G. Dent, of
the second part, all of the city of Memphis and State of Tennessee, witnesseth, that the said Ferguson, for the purposes
and considerations hereinafter set forth, has this day bar
gained and sold to the said Dent all his right, title and interest
of, in and to certain lots or parcels of land situated, lying and
being in the city of Memphis and State of Tennessee, as per
schedule thereof hereto annexed, and for identification signed
by the parties hereto.
"That for said considerations he binds himself to make conveyance by quit-claim to said Dent, or to whomsoever he may
direct, of said several pieces of property on demand, excepting,
however, one piece of property contained in the schedule hereto
annexed, situated on the southeast corner of Beale and Hernando streets, to which he agrees to make a warranty deed to
James E. Dillard, to whom said Dent has bargained the same
for $8000 subject to certain judgment liens which will be expressed on the face of said deed when it shall be executed. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Stafement of the Case.

consideration of this agreement is that the property hereby
agreed to be conveyed is much encumbered by judgments,
decrees and deeds of trust, taxes and assessments for grading
and paving to nearly, if not quite, its full value, as also shown
in said schedule, and the only interest remaining to said
Ferguson in the same is his equity of redemption. For this
equity he is willing to take the sum of $10,000, and allow the
purchaser to make the best use he can of the property in paying off said encumbrances and making what he can out of the
surplus. The further consideration of this agreement is, therefore, that the said H1. G. Dent will pay the said A. -M. Ferguson the sum of $4000 in cash in hand and by the conveyance to be made to James E. Dillard, will secure the payment
of the further sum of $6000 to said Ferguson, making an
aggregate of $10,000 as agreed upon, and will dispose of the
balance of said property to the best advantage, to discharge
the liens thereon, or otherwise discharge the same, and will
have no recourse on said Ferguson in law or equity for any
encumbrance or defect of title whatsoever on any of said pieces
or parcels of land, but take the same at his own risk, and inasmuch as the terms, conditions and considerations of this
agreement cannot be properly expressed in the several convevances desired and contemplated by the parties, this instrument and the schedule hereto annexed are made for a more
thorough and complete explanation and exposition of the
same.
"In testimony whereof the said A. M. Ferguson and H. G.
Dent have hereunto set their hands the day and date first
above written.
"Attest. W L. YAN Dyim.
A. M. FERGUSON. [Seal.]

0. W FPAzER.

H. G. DENT.

[Seal.]"

The complainants averred in their bills that this instrument
was drawn up and signed only as a plan proposed, but never
adopted, was never understood by the parties to it to be of
any force as between themselves, and was never in fact delivered to Dent, but was retained by Ferguson as his private
property and placed with his other papers in the possession

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Statement of the Case.

and custody of his attorney, one W L. Van Dyke, where it
remained until the death of the latter, when Dent, by fraudulent representations to a woman in charge of Van Dyke's
room and effects, succeeded in abstracting it from the papers
of Ferguson, and that Dent then, after Ferguson died, set up
a claim to the ownership of the property under said pretended
contract. They further averred that, even if said instrument
was really delivered, it was void because of the fraudulent
means and undue influence by which Dent imposed upon Ferguson to make a conveyance of his property at a grossly inadequate price, which was never paid. It was further alleged that
Dent was, at the date of said agreement, and had been for
many years prior thereto, the agent of Ferguson in the management of his property, and had so gained his confidence and
had acquired such an ascendancy over Ferguson's mind and
will, especially during the latter part of his life, when he was
in his dotage and incapacitated to attend to his interests, that
all his financial transactions were subject to Dent's supervision and direction, that among these transactions was an
indorsement by Ferguson on the 12th of April, 1867, of four
notes of Dent of $12,500 each, aggregating in amount $50,000,
which he (Dent) gave in part payment of a purchase by him
of a stock of goods from Lockwood & Co. in Memphis, that
this sale by Lockwood & Co. to Dent was soon afterwards
attacked by the creditors of the former as fraudulent, and
four successive attachments were sued out and levied upon the
stock of goods, and that four replevin bonds were given by
Dent and signed by Ferguson, one as surety and the other
three as a principal, he having purchased from Dent one-half
interest in the stock.
It was alleged that the amount of the judgment rendered
on these bonds against Dent and Ferguson was about $65,000,
and that of the Lockwood notes for $50,000, one was claimed
to have been paid off and taken up by Dent, the other three
having been compromised by Dent and Ferguson giving their
notes for $18,000, secured by a deed of trust upon a large
part of the Ferguson property in dispute and one lot belonging to Dent, executed to one Carmack, trustee for certain

OCTOBER TERTAI, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

creditors into whose hands the notes had fallen. It was further alleged that Ferguson, harassed by this sudden and
largely increased indebtedness, (already great,) desired and
proposed to make an assignment for the benefit of his creditors, but was overruled in this purpose by the controlling influence of Dent, who, by imposition and fraud, prevailed upon
him to sign the pretended contract of Mlay 14, 1869, which
the said Dent got up to serve his purpose of fraudulently possessing himself of Ferguson's estate.
The bill further set forth with great minuteness of detail the
various subterfuges and contrivances to which, it was alleged,
Dent resorted to cover up and conceal from the creditors the
ownership of the property, and the trust deeds and judicial
proceedings by which the baffled creditors were inveigled into
compromises at enormous sacrifices, and that various persons,
mostly Dent's attorneys and relations, or persons having an
understanding with him, purchased all of the property under
these trust deeds and at said judicial sales, (with money furnished by Dent, which he raised from the rents and profits of
Ferguson's estate,) and held their titles in trust for said Dent.
It was then alleged that all the liabilities of Ferguson had
been settled, and all the encumbrances upon his property removed, for the most part, out of the rents and profits of said
property
The prayer of the bill was that the contract of May 14, 1869,
be declared void, and that the defendants be declared trustees
of the property for the complainants, and required to turn it
over to their possession, and account for its rents and profits.
The answer, after a general denial of all the allegations of
the bill, especially denied those relating to the undue influence
charged to have been exercised by Dent over Ferguson, those
relating to Dent's agency, and those relating to Ferguson's
dotage, weakness of mind and incapacity for business. It
admitted that Dent's heirs had in their possession a deed or
contract properly executed, attested and delivered, dated May
14, 1869, but unregistered, under which they claimed title to
the property referred to in the bill, and averred the fairness and
justice of the contract, its delivery to Dent by Ferguson, and

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Citations for Appellants.

also the delivery into his actual possession of all the property
conveyed by it. It also set forth the hopeless condition of
Ferguson's affairs, that Dent had extinguished the debts and
removed from the property all the encumbrances and paid the
$10,000, or its equivalent, which was the consideration mentioned in the deed, and that $10,000 and the discharge of the
debts, quite as great in amount as that of the value of the property conveyed, constituted a full and sufficient price therefor.
It set up as a defence the acquiescence of Ferguson, as long as
he lived, (a period of eleven years,) in the contract, and in Dent's
acts under it, and also the fact that Ferguson.had filed his petition in bankruptcy, stating under oath that he did not own any
real estate, which proceeding it relied on as an estoppel and as
proof of an outstanding title.
The defendants Frazer, Trezevant and the De Soto Building
and Loan Association each filed a separate answer, in which
they each stated that the titles held by them respectively to
the property with which the bill had connected their names
were held by them as trustees for Dent, or as a security for
fees, advances and loan' to him. Dillard, in his deposition,
answered, alleging that the titles held by him to any of the
property claimed by complainants were held for the benefit of
Dent. Hooper and wife answered, denying the averments of
the bill that Susan R. Hooper purchased the Selby claim which
she was prosecuting against the estate of Ferguson, as the
agent of Dent, but averring that such purchase by her was
bonafde and for her own use and benefit, and that said claim
was then her own property
The answers of the other defendants averred that before the
filing of the bill they had parted with whatever right or title
they ever had to any of the property in controversy
Proofs were taken and a hearing was had before the circuit
justice, the district judge sitting with him, and a decree was
rendered in accordance with the prayer of the bill. 24: Fed.
Rep. 412.
_Mr D H. Poston and Mr T B. Titrley, for appellants,
cited Battle v Street, 85 Tennessee, 282, Taylor v Har-well,

OCTOBER TERM],

1889.

Citations for Appellee.

5 Humphreys, 331, Searcy v Carter, 4 Sneed, 271, 7lagnzao
v. Thompson, 7 Pet. 348, Walker v .McCnntco, 10 Yerger,
228, Jenkins v Pye, 12 Pet. 241, Heyward v Elliot A at'l
Bank, 96 U S. 611, 617, 619, Graham v Boston, H~artford
&cf.Railroad, 118 U. S. 161, frew Albany v Burke, 11 Wall.
96, Preston v Preston, 95 U. S. 200, Bolton v .Dtckens, 4
Lea, 569, Burke v Smith, 16 Wall. 390, 401, Snell v Atlantz Ins. Co., 98 U S. 85, arymes v Sanders, 93 U. S. 55, Sullivan v. Portland& HYennebec Railroad,94 U. S. 806, Brown
v Buena JFista County, 95 U S. 157, Hamiltonv Zimmerman,
5 Sneed, 39, 48, Cooley v Steele, 2 Head, 605, Stephenson v
Walker, 8 Baxter, 289, Bank v Sherman, 101 U. S. 403,
Conner v long, 104 U. S. 228, Glenny v Langdon, 98 U S.
20, Redmand v Gould,7 Blackford, 361, Grzswold v Al cMillan, 11 Illinois, 590, Berry v Gillts, 17 New Hampshire, 9,
S. C. 43 Am. Dec. 584, Lea v Talfer, 1 Car. & P 147, _Mimi
v. Swartz, 37 Texas, 13, Sweyson v Rouse, 65 N. 0. 34, Crayton
v. Hamilton,37 Texas, 269 , Fay v Reager, 2 Sneed, 203, Jillibrew v _furyhy, 3 Heisk. 546, Johnson v Gewsrter, 26 Arkansas, 44, Barronv Newberry, 1 Bissell, 149, Perley v Dole,
38 Maine, 558, Oakey v Corry, 10 La. Ann. 502.
Xfr T B. Edgmgton, for appellee, cited Jackson v leek,
12 Wend. 105, Fay v R'chardson, 7 Pick. 91, Hampton v.
Rouse, 22 Wall. 263, Sutherland v Dams, 42 Indiana, 26,
Jlamilton v Zimmerman, 5 Sneed, 39, Helm v Wrght, 2
Humphreys, 72, and Cooper's notes, Decherd v Blanton, 3
Sneed, 373, Smth v Fowler, 12 Lea, 163, 174, Lmcoln v.
Purcell, 2 Head, 143, 145, S. C. 73 Am. Dec. 196, Faucher
v DeJfontegre, 1 Head, 40, 41, Hurd v French., 2 Tenn. Ch.
355, _Merwether v lFaulx, 5 Sneed, 300, -irk v Smith, 9
Wheat. 241, 256, DeArusmont v DeLagerty, 9 Lea, 199,
Armstrong v Campbell, 3 Yerg. 201, S. C. 24 Am. Dec. 556,
Bovey v Smtth, 1 Vern. 60, Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640,
United States v Throckmorton, 98 U S. 61, 65, 66, Brooks
v Cauhgran, 3 Head, 464, Williamson v Godwyn, 9 Grattan,
503, Pettus v Smith, 4 Rich. S. C. Eq. 197, Tiley v JYnght,
7 Alabama, 336.

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTicE. LAw-Ai, after stating the facts in the foregoing
language, delivered the opinion of the court.
The main grounds of the bill are
(1) That the agreement or conveyance of May 14, 1869, was
never delivered, but was only a paper in contemplation to be
executed, and that the execution and delivery of it were finally
abandoned, and
(2) That said contract was procured by fraud on the part of
Dent to enable hun to possess himself of the estate of Ferguson
without paying him a valuable consideration therefor, and
that Ferguson was of weak mind, in his dotage, and easily imposed upon by Dent, between whom and himself the relation
of principal and agent existed.
We concur fully in the position assumed by both the circuit
justice and the district judge, that the execution and delivery
of the agreement and conveyance of May 14, 1869, by Ferguson
to Dent were sufficiently proven. A careful examination of
the evidence, especially that introduced in behalf of complainants, leaves no doubt on this point. The paper was frequently
recognized and acted upon by Ferguson. He received part,
at least, of the money to be paid under it and frequently called
for more, complaining of Dent that he had not fully paid the
amount agreed to in the contract. He received the two Dillard
notes for $3000 each, as provided for in it, in part payment,
and also accepted Dillard's deed of trust on the property conveyed to him, as securities therefor. He solemnly reaffirmed it
over his own signature and seal on the 23d of August, 1869,
in a deed introduced in evidence by complainants, in which
deed the recital is as follows "Whereas on the 14th of May,
1869, H. G. Dent and A. M. Ferguson entered into an agreement of purchase and sale, by which said Dent purchased the
equity of said Ferguson in all his real estate in Shelby County
for the sum of $10,000, $4000 of which was to be paid in cash,
and $6000 in notes," etc. He again recognized and carried
out his part of it, when, on the 25th of May- 1869, he made a
deed to Dillard in pursuance of its terms. His petition m
bankruptcy, filed on April 29,1878, in which he stated on oath

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

that he did not own any real estate, nor hold any interest in
any real property, except a leasehold that would expire in less
than a month, though not a technical estoppel as a defence in
this suit, is at least evidence of the execution and validity of
the instrument in question. In view of these facts, which appear from the proofs and pleadings of the complainants, we do
not deem it necessary to review the mass of testimony offered
by the complainants to sustain their charge that Dent purloined
the writing from Ferguson's papers.
As to the second point we cannot assent to the conclusions
of the court below The evidence, we think, fails to show any
imbecility, dotage or loss of mental capacity on the part of
Ferguson in 1869, when the contract was made. About fifteen,
witnesses produced by the complainants were questioned as to
the character and condition of his mind, three, and perhaps
four, of whom, speak of him as being weak, ignorant and
childish, but the general tenor of the testimony of the others,
who had any opinions to express, was directly the reverse.
The combined effect of this testimony, taken as a whole, putting out of view the evidence on behalf of the defendants,
leaves on the mind a decided impression that Ferguson, though
to a certain extent illiterate, was a man of good, sound sense,
of large experience in business and capable of transacting his
own affairs. Outside of the nature of the transaction itself,
and the relation of principal and agent between him and Dent,
which will be presently considered, there is very little, if any,
testimony that he was ignorant of his rights or of the value of
his property, or in the slightest degree incompetent to comprehend the terms of the contract in question, or to understand
the obligations of an oath. Nor does a single witness testify
that Dent ever falsely represented to Ferguson the amount of
his indebtedness, ever under-estimated to him the value of his
property, or ever exaggerated to him the danger from creditors. Even as to who suggested the contract of Aray 14, 1869;
the testimony, slight as it is, is conflicting and uncertain.
It is, however, insisted that the price agreed to on the face
of the instrument itself was so grossly inadequate as to create
the presumption of fraud and undue influence, aside from, and

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

independent of, any proof other than the single fact that the
parties thereto bore the relation to each other of principal and
agent. Assuming for the present, and for present purposes
only, that the agreement was bona fde as respects third
persons, creditors of Ferguson and Dent, and considering it
with exclusive reference to the reciprocal rights of the two
parties to it, we do not think the evidence is such as to raise
the presumption of fraud and therefore to call for or justify
the interposition of a court of equity for the cancellation of
the contract. The fairness of the transaction, on this point,
should be determined by the condition of things at the time
the contract was made and executed, and not by what occurred
afterwards, except so far as subsequent developments may
reflect light upon it.
What were the circumstances under which this instrument
was executed9 A. M. Ferguson was then possessed of a large
estate in Memphis, consisting of valuable city lots with improvements, all estimated by competent witnesses to be worth
$100,000, more or less. At that time he was indebted to
various persons in sums which, we believe, it is admitted
amounted to as much as the value of his property Many of
these debts, perhaps the majority in amount, originated as
joint promissor with, or as mdorser or surety for, Henry G.
Dent, who had been his agent for the renting of his property
and intimate friend for many years, and who was himself
wholly insolvent. But whatever the origin of his debts, they
had become, as between Ferguson and his creditors, legal and
binding upon him, nor did the fact that they were the liabilities of an indorser lighten the burden of them, or lessen the
peril of impending insolvency, or abate the eagerness of pursuing creditors. These creditors had been for some time active
and pressing for payment, and his real estate was heavily
encumbered with judgments, decrees, deeds of trust, sheriff's
deeds, taxes and assessments for public improvements. Several
other suits, aggregating nearly $50,000, were proceeding to
judgment. Some idea of his embarrassed condition may be
found from the fact that on the 29th of March, 1869, a bill
had been filed to reach his equitable rights and interest in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

property, the subject of this controversy, in which the complainant alleged on oath that an execution issued on a judgment at law obtained by him against Ferguson had been duly
returned "no property found whereon to levy," and that
after diligent search and inquiry he could not find any property m Memphis to which Ferguson had an unencumbered
legal title subject to an execution at law
Such was the condition of Ferguson's affairs when he made
the agreement of May 14, 1869. The consideration of this
agreement was that Ferguson should receive $4000 in cash
and $6000 in notes, and that Dent should "discharge the liens,"
not that he should _pay them n full. This discharge Dent
fully procured. Ferguson was fully discharged, and all claims
against him were legally cancelled, not only those then existing, but also those that were impending and which afterwards
matured. This fact is thus stated in the words of complainants' bill. "The liabilities of the said A. M. Ferguson by
judgments, trust deeds, mortgages and mortgages in the form
of warranty deeds, have all been settled and paid off except
as hereinafter stated, and the said complainants, as heirs at
law of the said A. M. Ferguson, are entitled to have the said
real property handed over to them free and discharged of all
liens."
If the promise to cancel the debts was a fair and valid
transaction when it was made, it did not become less so
because subsequent occurrences enabled Dent to effect a settlement with the creditors upon the payment of a small percentage of their respective claims, and if the means he employed
to effect such compromises were not proper, it might give the
overreached creditors cause of complaint, but certainly not
Ferguson. Had Dent been able to persuade the creditors to
give a release of their claims without any consideration whatever, that could not retroact and make inadequate what was
an adequate consideration when the contract was made.
When it was made no one knew that the debts could be compromised for much less than their face value as was done by
Dent; for as the district judge truly remarks "The astounding fact in this record is that the creditors did not appropriate

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

all this property to their debts." And yet it is an undeniable
fact that Dent did avert such an appropriation, and that Ferguson was fully discharged, and the claims were legally cancelled by methods not fully developed, but assented to and
facilitated by Ferguson. For instance, a judgment for over
$22,000 in favor of H. B. Olaflin & Co. of New York, was
settled for $1000, a claim in favor of Louis Selby for $12,622.11 for $1325, and an assessment for $6998 for the Nicholson pavement, stated in said agreement of May 14, 1869, to
be a lien on the property conveyed, was entirely defeated on
legal grounds.
The consideration as to the extinguishment of the debts
was fully performed. The $6000 of notes were received by
Ferguson and afterwards indorsed to his relatives. As to how
much of the remaining $4000 coming to him under the agreement was paid to him in cash, there is much conflict of testimony, which, owing to the lapse of time and the death of
both parties to the contract, cannot be reconciled. Apparently
$1400 was paid soon after, for the instrument dated August
23, 1869, which the complainants introduced and rely on,
states that the payment of that sum was made on that day
0. L. Morrison, a witness for complainants, whose testimony
their counsel declares, in his brief, to be more important than
that of any and all the other witnesses for complainants, testifies that from 1871 to 1876 he paid to Ferguson from $80 to
$90 a month out of the rents collected by him from a portion
of the property, and that he saw Dent pay him during that
period out of his own pocket about $300 a yean These sums
aggregate a larger amount than $4000.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the contract, considered
apart from its bearing on other creditors, does not in the
absence of other proof lack the essential qualities of adequacy
and fairness as between the parties thereto themselves. If this
be so, the point as to principal and agent, upon which so much
stress has been laid, is of minor importance. The doctrine as
to this fiduciary relation, applied to its full extent, is simply a
rule of evidence which, under some circumstances, imposes
upon an agent the burden of proving the fairness and justice

OCTOBER TERIVr, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of the transaction with his principal within the scope of his
agency If the contract was valid as to the creditors of Ferguson, the consideration therein expressed was sufficient to
satisfy this burden.
The evidence shows that for many years Dent was an agent
of Ferguson for the renting of his property, with more intimate relations than with his other patrons. But the record
does not show that he was ever employed to buy or sell real
estate for Ferguson. On the contrary, there is positive testimony that his (Ferguson's) traffic in that business was carried
on by himself alone.
We have considered this case, so far, upon the assumptien
of the circuit justice, that the agreement was executed and
delivered by Ferguson to Dent in good faith as to Ferguson's
creditors. We do not concur in this assumption. If the voluminous record before us discloses a single fact tending to

sustain that assumption, except a general expression of opinion
by some of the witnesses that he was an honest man, it has
escaped our search. The instrument itself was executed under
circumstances which would lead a court to presume fraud
upon creditors. It was a conveyance by a person deeply indebted, in anticipation of decrees and judgments, which, added
to the existing encumbrances, amounted to the value of his
property We, therefore, agree with the district judge on
this point, that the real contract was one between Ferguson
and Dent to defraud the creditors out of the property conveyed, and to so conceal and cloud the title that they could be
circumvented, hindered and delayed, and coerced into settlements and compromses. We think the evidence shows beyond
doubt that Ferguson willingly participated for ten years in
carrying out this plot. Both parties knew that $10,000 could
not be saved for Ferguson, or any residuum out of the property
for Dent, unless creditors could be wrought upon by some
means to accept less than their claims. Neither party to such
a contract could have been deceived or imposed upon about
that result. Both knew the record fact, that the encumbrances perfected, and the encumbrances rapidly perfecting,
exceeded in amount the value of the property

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

That Ferguson had that fraudulent design when he signed
his name to the instrument and turned over the property to
Dent, as its owner, was directly sworn to by witnesses introduced by the complainants and examined by them-of course
for a very different purpose. Mrs. A. G. Morrison, a witness
produced to show that Dent had fraudulently abstracted certain papers from Ferguson deemed by him to be important
and valuable, deposes as follows in reply to the question
"What was it Mr. Ferguson told you about the sale of the
property 92" [referring to the sale now under consideration]
"He told me he went on Mr. Dent's bond, as near as I can
remember. Mr. Dent went into business and broke, and the
property was covered up some way in Mr. Dent's name to
keep it from being sold. I couldn't tell you how long Mr.
Ferguson told me, but I am positi.ve he told me it was covered
up in Dent's name, and he says ' There is wherein Dent has
In
robbed me, he would not give me those papers back.'
reply to another question, which the witness said did not
repeat her previous answer accurately, she replied. "He didn't
He says he turned the propsay it in those words.
etc. Again, "He said
his
name,"
it
in
put
to
Dent,
erty over
something about a receiver being appointed, and he says ' I
turned the property over to Dent to keep it from being sold,
I don't want it sold, because the rent of my property will
pay the debt,"' etc. Another witness for the complainants,
Robert McWilliams, testifies as follows concermng a con"If I remember corversation had with Ferguson in 1878
rectly, he said that he had made over his property to Dent,
with the tacit understanding that he should have sufficient to
live on until his discharge in bankruptcy, and then Dent
would return or turn over the property to him again." In
reply to the question "What, if anything, do you know concerning the arrangement of A. M. Ferguson and Henry G.
Dent concerning the Ferguson property on Beale, Hernando
and De Soto streets and elsewhere9" he said "I know of
nothing except that Ferguson told me that he had conveyed
this property to Dent with the tacit understanding that he
(Ferguson) should have enough out of the rents of the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

to live on until he had got through bankruptcy, when the
property should be returned to him again."
The question arises - if a person conveys his property for
the purpose of hindering, delaying or defrauding his creditors,
and for eleven years acquiesces and concurs in the devices,
collusive suits and impositions upon the court in furtherance
of this purpose, without taking a single legal step to annul
said conveyance or to stop such proceedings, will a court of
equity aid him or his heirs to recover the property from the
grantee or his heirs after the fraud is accomplished
This
court has answered that question in the negative in Randall
v Howard, 2 Black, 585. In that case the complainants and
defendant had made an agreement to defeat the claims of
third persons to certain lands which the complainants had
mortgaged to the defendant to secure a debt, so as to cloak
the ownership by means of a foreclosure sale at which the
defendant should purchase and hold the nominal title. After
obtaining the title, he fraudulently dispossessed the complainants and asserted the right of ownership in himself. The
prayer of the bill was to restrain the defendant from disposing
of the land, and to restore it, or so much of it as remained
after paying the debt, to complainants. The court, Mr.
Justice Davis delivering the opinion, held that the agreement
was a fraudulent one, to defeat a claim set up by other parties
for a portion of the mortgaged lands by the covering up,
through the aid of the court, the real ownership of the property, and said (p. 588) "A fraudulent agreement was entered
into to defeat, as is charged, 'a fraud attempted against the
complainants.'
A court of equity will not intervene
to give relief to either party from the consequences of such an
agreement. The maxim, &nparz delicto ottor est conditto
defendentis, must prevail. It is against the policy of the law
to enable either party, in controversies between themselves,
to enforce an agreement in fraud of the law, or which was
made to injure another," citing 1 Story's Euity, ยง 298,
Bolt v Rogers, 3 Paige, 151, 156, and Wilson v Watts, 9
Gill, 356.
The same principle was applied in 'Wheeler v Sage, 1 Wall.

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

518.

In that case an agreement was entered into between

complainants and defendant to secure the title to valuable
real estate of an insolvent debtor, at the expense and sacrifice
of his creditors, which the defendant violated, and, in conjunction with another person, secured an interest in the property
to himself. The bill prayed that he be declared a trustee for
the complainants, and required to convey to them that portion of the land to which, under the agreement, they were
entitled. The court, Mr. Justice Davis delivering the opinion,
said (p. 529) "Generally, when a party obtains an advantage by fraud, he is to be regarded as the trustee of the party
defrauded, and compelled to account. But, if a party seeks
relief in equity, he must be able to show that on his part
there has been honesty and fair dealing. If he has been engaged in an illegal business and been cheated, equity will not
help him." And then, after a review of the evidence m that
case, the opinion concluded in these words "A proceeding
like this isagainst good conscience and good morals, and cannot receive the sanction of a court of equity The principle
is too plain to need a citation of authorities to confirni it. It
is against the policy of the law to help either party m such
controversies. The maxim, In pwa" delicto,' etc., must pre-

vail" (p. 530).
We cannot assent to the opimon of the district judge that
this maxim has no application to the case at bar. In the
views prepared by him at the request of Mr. Justice Matthews, and which were adopted by the latter, he says, in
speaking of the contract of May 14, 1869, that it is only "in
forn? a contract for the sale of property," and proceeds
"The real contract was one to defraud the creditors of Ferguson and Dent out of this property, and it was calculated
that this could be done on a basis of $10,000 to Ferguson, to
be realized out of the property itself, and all the balance to
Dent, whatever that might be. But this was an unequal,
unconscionable, and unfair division, particularly m view of
actual results, in the accomplishment of which Dent has
risked nothing but his time and labor. Ferguson has agreed
to give too much for Dent's services in that behalf.
voL. cxxxI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

One of the objects of the bill is to prevent the defendants
from reaping the lion's share of the benefits of this confessed
fraud, and the maxim, zn jarz delicto otior est conditto defenhas no application whatever to a case like
dentzs,
this."
From this view we dissent. We find no authority for the
idea that it is the province of a court of equity to make a
fraudulent debtor the special object of its favor because he
has not received a large enough consideration for his "confessed fraud." That court is not a divider of the inheritance
of iniquity between the respective heirs of two confederates
in fraud. Mr. Justice Baldwin, delivering the opinion of the
court, in Bartle v Coleman, 4 Pet. 184, 189, uses the following language "The law leaves the parties to such a contract as it found them. Ifeither has sustained a loss by the
bad faith of a~pwrtzeeps crzmtnts, it is but a just infliction for
premeditated and deeply practised fraud, which, when detected, deprives him of anticipated profits, or subjects him to
unexpected losses. He must not expect that a judicial tribunal will degrade itself by an exertion of its powers, by
shifting the loss from the one to the other; or to equalize the
benefits or burthens which may have resulted by the violation
of every principle of morals and of laws." Or, as Chancellor
Walworth states it. "Wherever two or more persons are
engaged in a fraudulent transaction to injure another, neither
law nor equity will interfere to relieve either of those persons,
as against the other, from the consequences of their own misconduct." Bolt v Rogers, 3 Paige, 154, 157.
The cases relied upon by the court below to sustain its
position do not shake the authorities we have cited to show
that courts of equity refuse to annul and also to enforce contracts in fraud of the rights of others, when called to act as
between the parties. For there is a distinct class of decisions
affecting subsequent and collateral contracts not partaking of
the fraud which infects the main transaction.
The principles established by those decisions in diversified
forms, according to the varying cases, is that a new contract,
founded on a new and independent consideration, although in

DENT v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

relation to property respecting which there had been unlawful
or fraudulent transactions between the parties will be dealt
with by the courts on its own merits. If the new contract be
fair and lawful, and the new consideration be valid and adequate, it will be enforced. If, however, it be unfair or fraudulent, or the new consideration so inadequate as to import
fraud, imposition or undue influence, it will be rescinded and
justice done to the parties. Amstrong v Toler, 11 Wheat.
258, -MoBlatrv Gibbes, 17 How 232; Brooks v Martqn, 2
Wall. 70, Planters Bank, v Urqvton Bank, 16 Wall. 483,
Railroad Co. v Durant,95 U S. 576.
But in all of those cases the court was careful to distinguish
and sever the new contract from the original illegal contract.
Whether in the application of this principle some of them do
not trench upon the line which separates the cases of contracts
invalid in consequence of their illegality from new and subsequent contracts arising out of the accomplishment of the illegal
object, is not the subject of inquiry here. The present case
does not involve any question of a subsequent and distinct contract, but seeks relief directly from the original fraud, to which
the person under whom complainants claim was a contracting
party fully sharing in the fraudulent intent.
We do not think that complainants' counsel gives an explanation of the testimony of McWilliams which strengthens
their claim to relief. That claim, stated in his own language,
is: "That Ferguson placed his property in Dent's bands, to be
used in liquidating his debts, and, when this was done, the property, or so much of it as had not been consumed in the payment of debts, was to be restored to Ferguson, and that in the
meantime Ferguson was to have enough of the rents to live
on.")
Such an arrangement, so entirely inconsistent with the absolute conveyance of the property as executed between the parties, has all the features of a fraud upon creditors. It reserves
to the'grantor the enjoyment of the rents and profits of the
property conveyed, to which the creditors have a right of immediate appropriation to their debts, and involves a secret
trust for the return to himself of property of which such cred-

