OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

VANE v. NEWCOMBE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF 1l\-DIANA.
No. 69. Argued and submitted November 6, 1889. -Decided

November 25, 1889.

In Indiana, a person who contracts with a telegraph corporation to do the
specified work of putting up certain lines of wire on poles, is not an
"employS" of the corporation, within the meaning of the act of the
legislature of Indiana, approved March 13, 1877, (Laws of Indiana 1877,
Special Session, 27, c. 8, also, Rev. Stats. Indiana, §§ 5286-5291,) giving a first and prior lien on the corporate property and earnings of a
corporation to its employ~s, for all work and labor done and performed
by them for the corporation, from the date of their employment by the
corporation.
Such a lien is not given to him by virtue of the mechanics' lien act of
Indiana, of March 6, 1883, (Laws of 1883, 140; Elliott's Supplement of
1889, §§ 1688 and 1690,) unless he complies with that act in regard to
destribing, in his notice of lien, the lot or land on which the structure
stands on which he claims a lien.
By perfecting a claim to his lien under the act of 1877, he waived the right,
if any, which he had to a common law lien, as to the personal property
and earnings of the corporation.
The poles and wires were real estate on which he could have no lien at common law.
Moreover he gave up any right he had to a common law lien, as to the
wires, by giving up possession of them.

ON the filing of a bill m equity, in October, 1884:, m the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana,
by The Bankers ' and Merchants ' Telegraph Company of Indiana, an Indiana corporation, against The Bankers' and Merchants' Telegraph Company of New York, a New York
corporation, praying for an accounting between the defendant
and the plaintiff as to moneys due by the former to the latter,
and for a determination of the relative rights of the parties to
certain telegraph lines and property in Indiana, and for the

appointment of receivers pendente Zite, to take possession of
the lines and property, an order was made by the court appointing Richard S. Newcombe and James G. Smith receivers of
all the lines and property of the plaintiff and the defendant, or
either of them, situated within the jurisdiction of the court.

VANE v. NEWOIEBE.
Statement of the Case.

The same persons had been appointed receivers of the defendant, in a suit brought by one Day m the Supreme Court of the
State of New York.
In March, 1885, James E. Vane filed in the suit in the Circuit Court an intervening petition. It set forth that in June,
1884, the defendant had employed Vane to put six additional
wires on and along the telegraph poles then owned by the
defendant, from Freeport, Ohio, to ilammond, Indiana, and
to attach such wires to the proper fixtures and appendages to
the poles, so that the company might have six additional,
independent wires between those places, and agreed with Vane
to pay him, as compensation for the work, $45 for every mile
of wire put and strung upon the poles, the defendant agreeing
to furnish all of the wire and other necessary material, which
were to be delivered at the nearest distributive point along the
route of the line, and to pay all freight for their shipment to
the various points along the route, and to deliver them to Vane
free of any charge at such points. The petition further alleged
that, in June, 1884, the defendant directed Vane to construct
two lines westwardly from Hammond in the direction of
Chicago, Illinois, that he proceeded to erect and construct
such two lines to a point about ten miles east of the courthouse in Chicago, that the defendant had failed to pay the
freights on the wire and materials, that Vane, at its request,
had furnished money to pay such freights and also money to
purchase necessary materials used in making the line, that
the defendant had. committed other breaches of its agreement
with Vane, and in consequence owed him a large sum of
money, that he had executed the work in all things as
directed by the defendant, that when he had completed the
six lines to Lake Station, in Lake County, Indiana, the defendant owed him about $16,000, that he then disconnected the
six wires from their westerly connections, and held physical
possession of them, for his own protection, that while he so
held them, in their disconnected condition, the receivers,
Newcombe and Smith, entered into the following agreement
with him, m consideration that he would allow the lines to be
connected with other lines running westerly into Chicago

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

"CHICAGO, ILL., -Hov.19th, 1884.
"It is hereby agreed and understood that the telegraph
wires on the poles of the Bankers' and Merchants' Telegraph
Company in the State of Indiana, which were strung by J E.
Vane, and upon which he claims a lien, shall be connected up
with the wires of the said company from Hammond, Indiana,
to Chicago, Illinois, now constructed and to be constructed,
and shall be used for telegraph business by the receivers of
said company, but it is also expressly understood that such
use of said wires shall not be construed in any way, or to any
extent, as impairmg or interfering with the lien of the said
Vane thereon.
"RicHARJ S. NEwcomBE,

"JAs. G. SMITH, Recezvers,"
that, in September, 1884, he caused notice to be given to the
defendant of his intention to hold a lien upon its corporate
property and earnings, for all work and labor done and performed and all moneys advanced by him to and for its benefit,
at its instance and request, and for that purpose filed notices,
on the 18th and 19th of September, 1884, in the offices of the
recorders of seven counties in Indiana through which the telegraph line runs, the notices being dated September 15, 1884,
that the receivers also owed him $1898.33 for work which he
did for them after their appointment, in connecting said wires
at Lake Station and Hammond with their westward connections, under which employment he erected and completed the
wires to a distance of about four miles from the court-house in
Chicago, such indebtedness including also the purchase by him
of a large amount of materials and the payment of freight
bills, and the doing of other work, and that the receivers also
owed him other moneys, which he had paid for the wages and
expenses of men who performed work for the receivers in
respect of the telegraph line, between December, 1884, and
February, 1885. The petition prayed for the payment of the
claim of Vane out of the first moneys coming into the hands
of the receivers, as a superior lien to all claims except those of
a like class.

VANE v. NEWCOMBE.
Statement of the Case.

The lien covered by the notices purported to be claimed
under the act of the legislature of Indiana approved March
13, 1877. Laws of Indiana, 1877, Special Session, 27, c. 8,
also, Rev Stats. Indiana, 1881, §§ 5286-5291.
Sections 1 and 5 of the act of 1877, being sections 5286 and
5287 of the Revised Statutes, provide as follows
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the General A.ssembly of th/e State
of _ndiana, That the employes of any corporation doing business in this State, whether organized under the laws of this
State or otherwise, shall be, and they are hereby entitled to
have and to hold a first and prior lien upon the corporate
property of such corporation, and the earnings thereof, for all
work and labor done and performed by such employes for
such corporation, from the date of their employment by such
corporation, which lien shall lie prior to any and all liens
created or acquired subsequent to the date of the employment
of such employes by such corporation, except as in this act
provided.
"SEC. 2. Any employe wishing to acquire such lien upon
the corporate property of any corporation, or the earnings
thereof, whether his claim be due or not, shall fie in the
recorder's office of the county where such corporation is located
or doing business, notice of his intention to hold a lien upon
such property and earnings aforesaid, for the amount of his
claim, setting forth the date of such employment, the name of
the corporation and the amount of such claim, and it shall be
the duty of the recorder of any county, when such notice is
presented for record, to record the same in the record now
required by law for notice of mechanics' liens, for which he
shall receive twenty-five cents, and the lien so created shall
relate to the time when such employe was employed by such
corporation, or to any subsequent date during such employment, at the election of such employe, and shall have priority
over all liens suffered or created thereafter, except other employes' liens, over which there shall be no such priority Provided, That where any person, other than an employe, shall
acquire a lien upon the corporate property of any corporation
located or doing business in this State, and such lien remain

OCTOBER TERML 1889.
Statement of the Case.

a matter of record for a period of sixty days, in any county in
this State where such corporation is located or doing business,
and no lien shall have been acquired by any employe of such
corporation during that period, then and in that case such lien
so created shall have priority over the lien of such employe in
the county where such corporation is located or doing business,
and not otherwise. Prowded,further, That this section shall
not apply to any lien acquired by any person for purchasemoney "

The notices of lien filed by Vane were all in the following
form, the name of the county being different in each case
"DE KRAT Cour.
"Notice is hereby given to the Bankers' and Merchants'
Telegraph Company, incorporated and organized under the
laws of the State of New York, doing business in the county
of De Kalb, in the State of Indiana, and all others interested
"Y ou are hereby notified that I, James E. Vane, hereby
intend to hold a lien upon the poles and wires strung thereon,
the switch-boards, telegraph instruments and battery, and
all other fixtures and property of said company together
with all the earnings of said company in said county of De
Kalb. r hold this lien for work and labor done and performed and materials furnished in the construction of their
line of telegraph through said county, and at their special
instance and request, to the amount of sixteen thousand dollars. The labor was performed and materials furnished on
and after the 15th day of June, 1884. That he intends to hold
this lien upon all the poles, wire strung and unstrung, switchboards, telegraph instruments and batteries, whether in use or
not, and all fixtures and property belonging to said company
in said county of De Kalb, together with earmngs thereof,
until his claim is paid and satisfied.
"September 15, 1884.
JAMEs E. VANE."
The receivers put in an answer to the petition, setting up
that, as to so much of it as sought to enforce a lien upon the
telegraph property and its rents and incomes, Vane did not

VANE v. NEWCOMBE.
Statement of the Case.

occupy, in his transactions with the defendant, the relation
of an employe, but of a general contractor, and was not
entitled to claim or enforce a lien, that he was not entitled to a first lien, because, before he filed his petition, the
receivers had executed, under an order of the Supreme Court
of New York and under the direction of the Circuit Court,
receivers' certificates to the amount of $130,000, to be used
in the payment of the debts of the defendant, and $20,000
to be used to complete the construction of its telegraph lines,
which certificates were made, by an order of said Supreme
Court, dated November 3, 1884, and an order of the Circuit
Court, dated December 15, 1884, a first charge and lien upon
all the property of the defendant within the State of Indiana,
that, in pursuance of those orders, the receivers had executed,
acknowledged and recorded a.mortgage, bearing date November 7, 1884, to secure the payment of the receivers' certificates,
that those certificates, to the amount of $150,000, were outstanding in the hands of persons who took them as innocent
purchasers without notice, and that, long before the rendering
of the services by Vane, the defendant had executed,-acknowledged and recorded a general mortgage upon all its property
in Indiana as well as the other States through which its lines
extended, covering its franchises, rents and profits, to secure
an issue of bonds amounting to $10,000,000, which were outstanding, unpaid and in the hands of persons who took the
same for value and without notice of any equities against the
same. A replication was put in to this answer, and on the 16th
of May, 1885, the petition of Vane was referred to a master to
take evidence and report the same with his findings thereon.
On the 30th of January, 1886, the master, having taken the
evidence produced by the parties, filed his report, containing
the following statements
"Mr. Vane, the petitioner, was employed by the telegraph
company to put on arms and insulators and to string additional
wires on the poles of the company from Freeport Junction,
Ohio, to Lake Station, Indiana, a distance of 248 miles, for
$45 per mile. The company agreed to furnish and deliver to
Vane, at the nearest accessible railway stations, all the necesVOL.

mx=x-15

OCTOBER TER& , 1889.
Statement of the Case.

sary material for the work. Vane was to do or furnish the
labor necessary to string the wires, etc. He did the work,
hiring men for the purpose and assisting in person. The
amount owing to him on this account is eleven thousand one
hundred and sixty dollars ($11,160).
"He also put in cross-arms and insulators and strung four
wires from Lake Station to Hammond, sxteen miles, at thirtyseven dollars and fifty cents per mile, the company furmshing
material and Vane doing or furnishing the labor. The amount
owing to him on this account is six hundred dollars ($600).
"He also strung two wires from Hammond to the junction
of the Chicago Board of Trade lines, 28 miles, at $20 per mile,
for which there is due him five hundred and sixty dollars
($560).
"During the progress of the Work the company failed to furnish the material as it was required, so that the men working
for Vane were without employment a portion of the tune.
Vane asked for instructions and was directed by the company
to keep his men together during the delay thus caused, it being
the understanding that the company would pay their board
while they were waiting. The master is of the opimon that
it is to be fairly inferred from the evidence that the company
would pay for the time thus lost, Vane being required to pay
his men as if they were at work.
"Vane also made some advances for freight on material
shipped to him, but which he could not obtain possession of
until the freight was paid. He also paid out various sums of
money for livery hire, telegrams, etc., made necessary by the
company's failure to furnish material promptly
" He also did extra work on the line, at the request of the
company, which was not covered by the original agreement.
The amount due him for this extra work and for the time of
his men lost by delay is $1951.12. The amount due him for
cash advanced to pay freight, livery hire, telegrams, etc., is
$1298.50.
"August 11, 1881, he was paid $300, September 11, $200
total credits, $500.
"Exhibit No. 1, which was filed March 7, 1885, contains all

VA.NE v. NEWCO.MBE.
Statement of the Case.

the foregoing items in detail, and has been audited and approved by the company There is no controversy as to the
amount. The only real question is as to what preference or
lien, if any, has the intervener.
"The master is of the opinion that, in doing this work, Mr.
Vane was an employe of the company, within the meaning
of section 5286, Revised Statutes of Indiana. 1S81. Ile has
filed his notice, as required by section 5287, in the counties
through which the telegraph is built. This lien covers the
following items
"For stringing wires, 248 miles, $45 per mile
" putting in cross-arms from Lake Station
to Hammond
stringing 2 wires from Hammond to
Junction, etc.
extra work and delay

$11,160 00
600 00
560 00
1,951 12

"Deduct credits

$14,271 12
500 00

"Bal. due.

$13,T71 12

"I find and report that he has no lien as to the sum of
$1298.50 for cash paid for freight, livery, etc.
"Vane's claim accrued prior to the order made by the Supreme Court of New York, November 3, 1884, authorizing the
issue of $150,000 of special receivers' certificates, to secure
which a trust deed or mortgage was executed, and I report and
find that for said sum of $13,771.12 Vane is entitled to priority over the lien of the certificates above named.
"Vane also asserts a right to a common law lien, which he
bases on the following facts, which are not controverted. The
contract with Vane was made in June, 1884. November 12,
1884, the work was practically done, but the connections were
not made. Mr. Vane kept possession of the wires by refusing
to allow connections to be made, and turned the ends of the
wires down into the ground. He retained such possession

OCTOBER TERMIT, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

until November 20, 1884, when he delivered possession to the
receivers, with an agreement that such delivery was not to
impair any rights or liens he might thus have by virtue of
such possession. He had such possession when the order allowing the issue of receivers' certificates was made, and also when
the certificates were issued, November 11, 1884. I report and
find that, by perfecting his claim for a lien under the statute,
Mr. Vane waived the right he had, if any, to assert his common law lien.
"In addition there is due to Vane from the receivers, for
work done for them, $1898.33. The work was done after the
certificates were authorized by the order of November 3, 1884,
but before the issue of the certificates issued by subsequent
orders. I report and find that for the sum last named Vane
should be postponed as to the issue of $150,000 of certificates,
but that he should be preferred as to those which were subsequently issued."
In February, 1886, the receivers filed exceptions to the
report of the master, because of his allowance to Vane of a
hen for the $13,f71.12, on the ground that he was an employe
of the defendant, within the meaning of section 5286. The
exceptions claimed that Vane was a contractor m his agreement with the defendant, and not its employe, that the item
of $600 for putting in cross-arms was not covered by his notice
of lien nor by the contract under which the labor was performed, and that he had no lieu for that service, and they
made a like claim in regard to the item of $1951.12.
Vane filed exceptions to the report because the master had
found that he was not entitled to a lien for the $13,771.12,
paramount to the holders of receivers' certificates and all other
mortgage liens, and had not found that Vane was entitled to
a paramount lien over all such other liens for the entire amount
of $15,069.62, and had deducted the $500 from the $14,211.12,
and not from the $1298.50, and had not awarded a lien for
the $1298.50.
The case was heard on these exceptions by Tudge Woods,
holding the Circuit Court. His opinion, delivered in April,
1886. 27 Fed. Rep. 536, recites the material findings of the

VA.NE v. NEWCOTMBE.
Argument for Appellant.

master, and then says "In the opinion of the court, the petitioner had no lien at common law or in equity, and was not an
employe of the telegraph company within the meamng of the
statute referred to by the master. That statute provides that
the employes of any corporation doing business in this State
shall be entitled to have and hold a first and prior lien
upon the corporate property,
and the earnings thereof,
for all work and labor done
by such employes for such
corporation. To be entitled to the benefits of this statute, and
others of like character since enacted, I think it clear that the
employe must have been a servant, bound in some degree at
least, to the duties of a servant, and not, like the petitioner, a
mere contractor, bound only to produce or cause to be produced a certain result,- a result of labor, to be sure, -but
free to dispose of his own time and personal efforts according
to his pleasure, without responsibility to the other party In
respect to the sums found due the petitioner, the report is confirmed, but, to the allowance of a lien, exceptions sustained."
In pursuance of this decision, the court made an order overruling the exceptions of Vane, and sustaining so much of the
exceptions of the receivers as related to the claim for a lien in
favor of Vane, but confirming the report as to amounts found
to be due to Vane. The order adjudged that Vane had no
lien upon the property of the defendant for the $15,069.62,
that that sum was a general floating debt of the defendant,
not entitled to any priority, but that the $1898.33 was a valid
debt of the receivers, payable out of any funds in their hands
as such, available for payment of the debts of the trust. Vane
appealed to this court from so much of the decree as disallowed his claim for a lien for the $15,069.62, and from the
overruling of his exceptions and the sustaining of the exceptions of the receivers.
-Wr Addison C. -arrzs for appellant.
I. Vane had a lien under the statutes of Indiana. The
policy of the State is to secure the pay of all persons employed
as contractors, material men, laborers or otherwise. Colter v

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

.Frese, 45 Indiana, 96. Statutes for the benefit of laborers
and the like are also liberally construed in this court. -Davis
v Alvord, 94 U. S. 545, .Min
'ng Co. v Cullins,104 U. S. 176.
Thus the federal and state courts are in accord in this matter.
The history of a remedial act may be inquired into, in order
to ascertain the purpose for which it was enacted. Platt v
Union, Pam~c Railroad, 99 UJ S. 48, 60, United States v
Union Pavfic Railroad, 91 U. S. 72, 79, -Maryland v Railroad Company, 22 Wall. 105, 113, Railway Co. v Prescott,
16 Wall. 603, 609. Looking at the various laws enacted in
Indiana before 1877, we find that all persons engaged in constructing any building (act of 1853), railroad (1873), boat (1863),
or any article of personal property; agistors, attorneys, bailees,
warehousemen, etc., were protected by the State. The financial distress of that time fell heavily upon the workingmen,
and particularly those whose labor was not secured by statute.
Labor incorporated into a telegraph line is as much entitled
to,protection as if done on a building, railroad or boat, or in a
law suit. ,Aind in morals, those operating a railroad or factory,
seem, to many at least, to have as much claim to protection
as those engaged in constructing or repairing the plant itself.
Labor creates wealth. And for its encouragement and assurance its value is made a charge on that which it creates. The
chief purpose of such statutes is to prevent those persons
whose labor is indispensable to the continuance of a corporation from abandoning it, and thus suspending its operations
whenever they become alarmed by fear of losing their pay
Lehigh Coal &c. Co. v Central Railroad, 2 Stewart (29 N. J
Eq.) 252, Watson v Watson .Manufactumng Co., 3 Stewart
(30 N. J Eq.) 588.
The "six' months' rule" m railway receiverships reposes
upon the same wholesome policy It seems to have been the
purpose of the legislature of 1877 to combine these purposes
in one general act, the first section of which is now § 5286
Rev Stats. Ind. under which the master held Vane had a lien.
This act for the first time introduced the word "employe"
into the lien laws of this State. In the embezzlement act of
1865 (acts 1865, Spec. Ses. 201), it was used as embracing the

VANE v. XEWCO,\fBE.
Argument for Appellant.

president, directors, cashier, secretary, treasurer, teller, clerk,
bookkeeper, agent and others in the employ of any corporation
or person in business. In subsequent criminal statutes it still
holds the same place broadened to embrace many other persons.
Rev Stats. 1881, § 1944, 1946, 1948, 3645.
It is evident the word was not used in any limited sense
in this act, although, if Vane had appropriated the wire
before it was strung, he might have been guilty of embezzlement. See Bitter v. State, 111 Indiana, 324. The word has
recently come to us from a foreign tongue, but receives a
broader meaning here than it has m its natural home. Its
brevity has led to its adoption into our tongue as it comprehends many classes of persons which otherwise we must name,
respectively A half a century ago it was styled an equivocal
word. Bayley, J., in Rbipley v Scaire, 5 B. & 0. 167. But it
is now in such general use that it is not subject to criticism,
and it receives as broad a definition as its common use will
warrant. Hogan v. Cushkng, 49 Wisconsin, 169, Gravnger v
Aynsley, 6 Q. B. D. 182, Mining Co. v Cullins, ubz, sup.,
Munger v Lenoot, 32 Wisconsin, 541, Matso v ifanufacturing Co., ubt, sup., Queen v Freke, 5 El. & Bl. 944, W1oodstocke Iron Co. v Richmond and .Danville Extenson Co., 129
U. S. 643, Gurney v. Atlantic & Great WVestern Railway,
58 N. Y 358, Astor, Petitioner, 50 N. Y 363, Stryker v
Oasszdy, '76 N. Y 50, Water Co. v Ware, 16 Wall. 566,
Warren v SoAn, 112 Indiana, 213.
II.Vane had also a lien at the common law, or in equity
The principle of the common law is applied to its full limit
in Indiana. IRev Stats. Indiana, 1881, § 5304, Rolderman v
.Manter, 104 Indiana, 118 and cases cited, Darter v Brown,
48 Indiana, 395, East v Ferguson, 59 Indiana, 169, Hanna v.
Pheltps,'7Indiana, 21, S. C. 63 Am. Dec. 410. That Vane had
help does not destroy the lien. Shaw v Bradley, 59 Michigan,
199, 204, Htall v Tittabawassee Boomi Co., 51 Michigan, 377.
The title of the New York Company appears to have been
a lease or license, which, under the act of incorporation (-Rev
Stats. Ind.1881, § 4166), could not continue for a term exceeding fifty years. Such leaseholds are personal property m that

OCTOBER TERM2,

1889.

Argument for Appellant.

State. .McCarty v Burnet, 84 Indiana, 23, Schee v Wiseman,
79 Indiana, 389, MAent v Rathbone, 21 Indiana, 454, 466,
Cade v Brownlee, 15 Indiana, 369, S. C. 77 Am. Dec. 595,
Duchane v. Goodtitle, 1 Blackford, 117. In Boston Safe
.Deposst & Trust Co. v Bankers' and Mferchants' Telegraphp
Co., 36 Fed. Rep. 288, it was held that this very property
did not become realty, but remained personalty
That liens are favored in law, see Bfolderman v tanser,104
Indiana, 118, Green v Farmer, 4 Burrow, 2214, Jacobs v
Latour, 5 Bing. 130, -Artansv. Brwckley, 65 Wisconsin, 26,
Hall v Tittabawassee Boom Co., 51 Michigan, 377, Webber v
Cogswell, 2 Canada Sup. Ct. 15, Williams v Allsup, 10 0. B.
(N. S.) 417, Hammond v .Danelson,126 Mass. 294, Townsend
v -Nrewell,14 Pick. 332.
The Roman law and the laws of nations drawing their jurisprudence from that source award such liens graciously And
the harsher rules of the English law are being liberalized until
now courts and legislatures lend a willing hand to assist the
laborer to obtain the price of his hire.
This wholesome equity has been adopted in the operation of
railways in this country Fosdick v Schall, 99 U S. 235,
_Miltenberger v. Logansport Railway, 106 U. S. 286, Barton,
v Barbour,104 U. S. 126, Uale v Frost,99 U S. 389, Gilbert
v Washngton City &c. Railroad, 33 Gratt. 586, Turner v
Indianapolis &c. Railway, 8 Bissell, 315, Un'on Trust Co.
v. Walker, 107 U. S. 596, Farmers'Loam and Trust Co. v Railroad,33 Fed. Rep. 778, Unton Trust Co. v Souther, 107 U. S.
591, Burnham v Bowen, 111 U S. 776, Unton Trust Co. v
Illinos .Midland Railway, 117 U. S. 434, Blawr v Railroad
Co., 22 Fed. Rep. 471.
It is equally applicable to a telegraph line.
III. Lastly, we insist that the arrangement of November
19, 1884, fixed a lien on the property Vane's accounts had
been stated, his mechanic's liens had been filed, and of course
known to Doolittle and the receivers. It was known to every
one connected with the management of the line that Vane was
holding possession of the six wires for his pay Vane told
Doolittle so, and the agreement made by the receivers recites it.

VANE v. NEWCOMfBE.
Opinion of the Court.

The receivers wanted the use of the wires. They had no
money Tins is shown by the insolvency of the company, and
the acts of the receivers soon after in inducing the courts to
issue receivers' certificates. This agreement was written by
Doolittle, the Chicago counsel for the receivers. It was made
to induce Vane to yield up possession. They knew he believed
it recognized his claun on the wires. It was made in the presence of that assertion. The words are "It is expressly understood that such use of said wires shall not be construed in any
way or to any extent as impairing or interfering with the lien
of said Vane thereon." Vane was induced to alter his position
by this contract. It is too late, it is believed, in a court of
conscience or elsewhere, to interpolate into the contract words
so as to make it read "By surrendering possession, Vane's
lien shall not be destroyed, if he has any" NoMrrs v Tilliams, 1 Cr. & Nees. 842, Perry v Board of .fisszons, 102
N. Y 99, Payne v Wilson, 74 N. Y 348, Unity &e. Banking
Association. v Zing, 25 Beavan, 72, Charles v Southwwk, 1
Curtis, 297, Gregory v -Morris, 96 U S. 619, Pinch v
Anthony, 8 Allen, 536, Pavy's Case, 1 Oh. Div 631.
.M
brief.

Robert J Ingersoll, for appellees, submitted on his

. JUSTICE BLATcnORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended for Vane that he has a lien under section 1
of the act of 1877. (Section 5286 of the Revised Statutes.)
That section gives a first and prior lien upon the corporate
property of any corporation doing business in Indiana, whether
organized under the laws of that State or otherwise, and upon
the earnings of such corporation, to its employes, for all work
and labor done and performed by them for the corporation,
from the date of their employment by it.
It seems clear to us that Vane was a contractor with the
company, and not an employe within the meamng of the statute. We think the distinction pointed out by the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

Court is a sound one, namely, that to be an employe within
the meaning of the statute Vane "must have been a servant,
bound in some degree at least to the duties of a servant, and
not," as he was, "a mere contractor, bound only to produce or
cause to be produced a certain result, - a result of labor, to be
sure,- but free to dispose of his own time and personal efforts
according to Ins pleasure, without responsibility to the other

party"
It is to be noted that the statute gives a lien to employis of
the corporation only for work and labor done and performed
by them for the corporation. It does not give a lien for the
value of materials furnished, nor for advances of money made.
It is confined to work and labor done and performed, and to
work and labor done and performed by employes of the corporation, and to work and labor done and performed by employes of the corporation for the corporation.
In this respect there is a marked difference between the
provisions of section 5286 and the provisions of section 15 of
the act of March'8, 1879, (Laws of 1879, 22, § 5471 of the
Revised Statutes of 1881,) which gives a lien, in coal mines, on
the mine "and all machinery and fixtures connected therewith, including scales, coal-bank cars, and everything used in
and: about the mine" to "the miners and other persons
employed and working in and about the manes, and the
owners of the land or other persons interested m the rental
or royalty on the coal mined therein," "for work and labor
performed within two months, and the owner of the land, for
royalty on coal taken out from under his land, for any length
of time not exceeding two months." This miners' statute gives
a lien to all persons "employed andworking in and about the
mines," for work and labor performed by them, without stating that they must be employes of the owners of the mine, or
of the persons working it, or of the persons owning the machinery and fixtures, and without stating that they may not be persons working in and about the mine employed by contractors
doing work under contract for the owners of the mine or for
the owners of the machinery and fixtures.
The general mechanics' lien law of Indiana (§ 5293 of the

VANE v. NEWCOMBE.
Opinion of the Court.

Revised Statutes of 1881), subsequently re-enacted by the act
of March 6, 1883, Laws of 1883, 140, provided that "mechanics, and all persons performing labor or furnishing materials
for the construction or repair, or who may have furmshed any
engine or other machinery for any mill, distillery, or other
manufactory, may have a lien separately or jointly upon the
building which they may have.constructed or repaired, or upon
any buildings, mill, distillery, or other manufactory for which
they may have furnished materials of any description, and on
the interest of the owner in the lot or land on which it stands,
to the extent of the value of any labor done or materials furmshed, or for both." This mechanics' lien statute gives a lien
upon a building to all persons who perform labor or furmsh
materials for the construction or repair of the building, even
though they do it under a contract, and is not confined to
employes of the owner of the building, and it also gives a
lien upon a manufactory to persons who may have furnished
machinery or materials for the manufactory, even though they
may have done so under contract with the owner of the manufactory or under contract with the contractor with such owner.
The Supreme Court of Indiana, in Colter v ]Jrese,45 Indiana,
96, in 1873, in construing that statute, which was section 64*7
of the then existing Revised Statutes, held that a person who
furnished materials, not to the owner, but to the contractor,
for the erection of a new building, could acquire and enforce
a lien on the building, and on the interest of the owner of the
land on which the building stood, to the extent of the value of
the materials furnished.
In view of these provisions of other lien statutes of Indiana,
the limited language of section 5286 is very marked, and Justifies the interpretation that the provisions of that section are to
be confined to a special class of persons. It is a rule of interpretation recognized by the Supreme Court of Indiana, in Stout
v Board of Comzsswners, 107 Indiana, 343, 348, that "in
cases of doubt or uncertainty, acts inpar?, materiz, passed
either before or after, and whether repealed or still in force,
may be referred to in order to discern the intent of the legislature in the use of particular terms, or in the enactment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

particular provisions, and, within the reason of the same rule,
contemporaneous legislation, not precisely n part, materza,
may be referred to for the same purpose."
The view above taken of the statute under consideration is
supported by adjudged cases. In Aikin v Wasson, 24 N. Y
482, in 1862, it was held that a contractor for the construction
of part of a railroad was not a laborer or servant, within the
provision of the general railroad act of New York. making
stockholders of a railroad corporation personally liable "for
all the debts due or owing to any of its laborers and servants,
for services performed for such corporation."
In _ unger v .enroot, 32 Wisconsin, 541, in 18'73, under a
statute which gave a lien on logs or timber, for the amount
due for his labor or services, to any person who did or performed any work or services in cutting, felling, hauling, driving, running, rafting, booming, cribbing, or towing such logs
or timber, it was held that such person was entitled to such
lien, not only when employed by the owner of the logs or of
the land from which they were cut, but also when employed
by a contractor under such owner. The court was of the
opinion that the legislature intended to give the lien absolutely
to the laborer, regardless of the question whether he had rendered the services under a contract with the general owner or
not. This decision was based upon the special language of the
statute, in not excluding a person employed by a contractor.
In TIVakefld v Fargo, 90 N. Y 213, in 1882, it was held
that a person employed by a corporation, at a yearly salary,
as a bookkeeper and general manager, was not a laborer, servant, or apprentice, within the provisions of a statute of New
York making the stockholders of the corporation "liable for all
debts that may be due and owing to their laborers, servants and
apprentices for services performed for such corporation." The
view taken by the court was that the services referred to were
menial or manual services, that he who performed them must
be of a class who usually looked to the reward of a day's labor
or service for immediate or present support, from whom the
company did not expect credit, and to whom its future ability
to pay was of no consequence, one who was responsible for

VANE v. NEWCOBE.
Opinion of the Court.

no independent action, but who did a day's work or a stated
job under the direction of a superior, that the word "servant"
must be limited by the more specific words "laborer" and
"apprentice," with which it was associated, and be held to
comprehend only persons performing the same kind of service
that was due from laborers and apprentices, and that a general
manager was not ejusdem,geners with an apprentice or laborer.
In Gurneyv Atlantw & GreatTFestern,Railway, 58 N.Y 358,
in 18741, a case relied on by the appellant, a receiver of a railroad company was directed by an order of court to pay out of
moneys in his hands "arrearages owing to the laborers and
employes" of the company "for labor and services actually
done in connection with" the company's road. Claim was
made by a counsellor-at-law for professional services as counsel
for the railroad company, rendered prior to the appointment
of the receiver. The question raised was whether the language
of the order covered employes who had not been in the stated
and regular employment of the company The court held
that, in view of the special language of the order, it included
the claim for the professional services. It appeared that the
order was made as the result of negotiations in regard to which
the counsel under whose advice the order was obtained testified
that the word "employes" was used in the negotiations "not
in any particular or strict sense, but according to its ordinary
and general meaning, as including attorney's compensation as
well as that of other persons employed by the corporation."
The decision appears to have gone upon the ground that the
person who made the claim had rendered "services" in connection with the railroad, and was consequently an employe
within the meaning of the order.
We are, therefore, of opinion that Vane had no lien under
the act of IMarch, 1877, § 5286 of the Revised Statutes.
It is further contended that Vane had a lien by virtue of
the general mechanics' lien law, before referred to, which was
re-enacted by the act of March 6, 1883, Laws of 1883, 140,
Elliott's Supplement of 1889, §§ 1688 and 1690, in the following
language
" SErrxTo 1. Be tt enacted by the General Assembly of the

OCTOBER TERMT,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

State of Indiana, That mechanics, and all persons perforing
labor or furnishing material or machmery for erecting, altering,
repairing, or removing any house, mill, manufactory, or other
building, bridge, reservoir, system of water-works, or other
structure, may have a lien, separately or jointly, upon the
house, mill, manufactory, or other building, bridge, reservoir,
system of water-works or other structure, which they may
have erected, altered, repaired, or removed, or for which they
may have furnished material or machinery of any description,
and on the interest of the owner of the lot or land on which
it stands, or with which it is connected, to the extent of the
value of any labor done or materials or machinery furnished,
or both."
"SEc: 3. Any person wishing to acquire such lien upon any
property, whether his claim be due or not, shall file in the
recorder's office of the county, at any time within sixty, days
after the performing of such labor or furnishing such materials
or machinery, notice of his intention to hold a lien upon such
property for the amount of his claim, specifically setting forth
therein the amount claimed, and giving a substantial description of such lot or land on which the house, mill, manufactory,
or other building, bridge, reservoir, system of water-works, or
other structure may stand or be connected with, or to which
it may be removed. Any description of the lot or land in
a notice of lien will be sufficient, if from such description or
any reference therein, the lot of land can be identified."
In regard to this it is sufficient to say that the notice of lien
filed by Vane in September, 188-, did not comply with section
3, of the statute, in regard to a description of the "lot or
land" on which the structure stood upon which he claimed a
lien.
A common law lien and an equitable lien are also claimed.
As to the common law lien the master reported "that, by
perfecting his claim for a lien under the statute, Mr. Vane
waived the right he had, if any, to assert his common law lien."
We concur in this view, as to the personal property and earnings of the corporation. As to the poles and wires they were
real estate, on which there could be no lien, at common law
0

