I[EIITT v. TIFFANY.
Syllabus.

unless inferred from the description given of an inside door.
If, however, such an inference is permissible, and the patent
must or may be construed to consist in such a combination of inside and outside doors as is asserted, it cannot be
upheld, because it does not involve invention, but consists in a
mere aggregation of parts, each to perform its separate and independent function substantially in the same manner as before
combination with the other and without contributing to a new
and combined result. The outside door certainly remains unaffected in construction and in use, and the inner door is the
same as the Crooker door, with a few slats left off or taken
off by design or by accident, and whether done in one way
or the other the change cannot reasonably be called invention,
unless the distinction between mere mechanical skill and inventive genius is to be disregarded."
There was nothing new in flexible or rigid doors, outside
and inside. There was nothing new in the use of outside and
inside rigid doors in combination, the inside door filling only
part of the openng. The substitution of the old flexible sliding inside door, reduced m size to correspond with the old
inside rigid grain door, may have required some mechanical
'skill, and may have been new and useful, but it did not involve
the exertion of the inventive faculty, and embraced nothing
that was patentable. Thompson v .Botsselier, 114 U. S. 1,
11, 12, and cases there cited, Stephenson v. Brooklyn Crosstown Railroad Company, 114 U. S. 149.
The decree was right, and it is
Affrmed.

MERRITT v. TIFFANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 60. Argued November 4,1889. -Decided

November 18, 1889.

The "professional productions of a statuary or of a sculptor only," as that
phrase is used in the tariff act, (ยง 2501 Rev. Stat. 2d ed. p. 478,) embraces such works of art as are the result of the artist's own creation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
or are copies of them, made under his direction and supervision, or
copies of works of other artists, made under the like direction and supervision, as distinguished from the productions of the manufacturer or
mechanic.

Tins was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
illegally exacted. Verdict for the plaintiff and judgment on
the verdict. Defendant sued out this writ of error. The case
is stated in the opinion.
_Mr Solicitor General-for plaintiff in error.
Kr Edward Hartley for defendant in error.
H. Coleman was with him on the brief.

.Mp Walter

lMR. JUsTioE FIELD delivered the opinon of the court.

In 1880 and 1881, the plaintiff below, Charles L. Tiffany,
imported from France and England various bronze statues and
statuettes, which he claimed a right to enter, as statuary, on
paying a duty of ten per cent ad valorem, but on which the
collector charged a duty of forty-five per cent, as non-enumerated manufactures of copper. He was accordingly compelled,
in order to obtain his goods, to pay $4:20.25 in excess of the ten
per cent, which payment he made under protest, and appealed
to the Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed the decision of
the collector. He then brought this action in the Supreme
Court of New York, from which it was removed on certoran
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York.
The plaintiff relied for recovery on the paragraph in "Schedule Al,Sundries," contained in Title thirty-three of the Revised Statutes, "Duties upon Imports." That paragraph reads
as follows
"Paintings and statuary, not otherwise provided for ten
per centum ad valorem. But the term 'statuary,' as used m
the laws now in force imposing duties on foreign importations,
shall be understood to include professional productions of a
statuary or of a sculptor only" Rev Stat. 2d ed. 478, 479.
The collector claimed that the goods were subject to the

TffERRITT v. TIFFANY.
Opimon of the Court.

duty charged under the paragraph in "Schedule E, Metals,"
contained in the same title of the Revised Statutes. That
paragraph reads as follows
"Copper in rolled plates, called braziers' copper, sheets, rods,
pipes and copper bottoms, and all manufactures of copper, or
of which copper shall be a component of chief value, not otherwise provided for forty-five per centum ad valorem." Rev
Stat. 2d ed. 467.
The articles imported were all made of copper, and fell
under the general designation of "manufactures of copper,"
or of "manufactures of which copper is a component of chief
value," subject to a duty of forty-five per cent ad valorem, as
charged by the collector, unless provision for a different duty
on articles of that character is made in some other clause of
the statute. There is no other clause applicable to them, unless
they come under the head of "statuary," as defined by Congress. That definition, as seen above, includes the "professional productions of a statuary or of a sculptor only" What
productions are to be deemed professional productions of a
statuary or a sculptor it is difficult to state in general terms,
so as to embrace every article of the kind. It is sufficiently
accurate, however, for this case, to say that the definition embraces such works of art as are the result of the artist's own
creation, or are copies of them, made under his direction and
supervision, or copies of works of other artists, made under
the like direction and supervision, as distinguished from the
productions of the manufacturer or mechanic. The definition
does not limit the professional productions to those of the
sculptor's creation. As said in Tutto v lFiti, 108 U. S. 312,
313 "An artist's copies of antique master-pieces are works
of art of as high a grade as those executed by the same hand
from original models of modern sculptors."
The articles in question in this present case were reproductions of noted figures, and, with the exception of the two
Roman Gladiators by Guillemin, were all made by manufacturers or mechanics. A model of a figure being prepared, any
number of copies can be cast from it without any aid of the
sculptor. One of the witnesses in the case testified that he had

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

been employed in New York City for eleven years in the manufacture of bronze statuettes, and that the company with
which he was connected manufactured about forty thousand
figures a year, varying in size from ten inches to thirty-six and
thirty-nine inches, some similar to, and some larger than, the
sample produced.
Another witness, who stated that he had been familiar with
the process of manufacturing statues for twenty years, testified
that the men who do the work of-casting are skilled mechanics;
that a model of a figure can be made so as to produce any number of copies, and that the process is purely mechanical.
The testimony of Leon Barre, who purchased the articles
for the plaintiff, is instructive. He had been salesman and
buyer for him for sixteen years, and had purchased in Europe
bronze statues for him since 1880. He thus testified
"The method of production of bronze statuary abroad is as
follows The artist or statuary first conceives a design, he
puts it on paper; he studies his subject historically, and then
makes a clay model, from that clay model he makes a plaster
one which he either sells to a founder or reproducer, who is
technically called an editor, or else he edits it himself.
The editbr must for the purpose of reproduction either use the
clay or plaster model of the statuary That was so here. I
find next two Roman Gladiators on this invoice. The original
model of that was made by Guillemin and edited by him, and
manufactured under his immediate personal supervision. He
is a well known sculptor and statuary, and these are his professional productions. I find next the statues of Penelope,
Madeline and the Retour des Champs, and busts of Delilah
and Shakespeare. The busts are cast by Barbedienne. He is
the most noted founder of bronze statuary The others are
cast by David, who is also a superior founder. I don't know
what artist made the original clay models in these cases. I
find also on the invoice a Venus de Mlo, and 'Mercury, and
David before the Combat, and a Bernard Palissy, all cast by
Barbedienne. The original artist is unknown to me. Barbedienne is a maker of statues. When a sculptor has produced
his clay model, unless he is himself an editor, he expends no

MTERRITT v. TIFFANY.
Opinion of the Court.

further work on the subject, but all subsequent processes of
founding, chasing and finishing are done by the editor. This
is artistic work. There is another way of making bronze statuary, but the statues in this suit were made as I have stated.
In all cases of editing it is absolutely necessary for
the editor to have and use the model of a sculptor." Upon
cross-examination this witness gave further evidence tending
to show that, with the exception of Guillemin referred to, the
only other sculptor is Basset, all the others are editors. The
witness states "I know Basset to be a sculptor, I have seen
his models. He did not make the models for the Love and
Flora. Any number of reproductions in bronze can be made
from the artist's model without any further work of the
sculptor."
The evidence thus given by different witnesses was sufficient
to justify the defendant in asking the court to instruct the jury
that, " If they find from the evidence that the imported articles
were made, not by professional sculptors or statuaries, or by
their assistants under their direction, but were made by skilled
workmen or mechanics in the employ of the manufacturer,
then their verdict should be for the defendant." This instruction the court refused, to which refusal counsel excepted. In
its ruling in this respect, we think the court erred. Under the
instruction the jury might possibly have found that some of
the articles, like the Roman Gladiators, were the productions
of a statuary or a sculptor, within the meaning of the statute,
while excluding others.
1he judgrnent must ther efore be reversed and the cause
remandedfor a new irtal, and it is so ordered.

