OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

his actions, does not and cannot affect its responsibility to
third persons injured by his negligence in the course of his
employment.
The Circuit Court therefoee rightly held that Corbett was
the defendant's servant, for whose negligence in the course of
his employment, the defendant was responsible to the plaintiff. Railroad Co. v. Hann-ng, above cited, Linneha v.
.Rolli'ns, 137 Mass. 123, Regmna v Turner, 11 Cox Crim. Cas.
551.
Judgment afflrmed.

SUGG v. THORNTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1141. Submitted December 9, 1889. -Decided

December 23, 1889.

There is color for a motion to dismiss a writ of error to a state court for
want of jurisdiction if it appear that no Federal question was raised on
the trial of the case, but that it was made for the first time in the highest
appellate court of the State sitting to review the decision of the case
in the trial court.
The provision in the Revised Statutes of Texas that when service is made
in an action against a partnership upon one of the firm the judgment may
be rendered against the partnership and against the member actually
served, (ยง 1224,) and the provision directing the manner of the service
of process upon a non-resident or an absent defendant (ยง 1230) are not
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
A judgment in Texas against a partnership, and against one member of
it upon whom process has been served, no process having been served
upon another member who is non-xesident and absent, binds the firm
assets so far as the latter is concerned, but not ins individual property.

The case is stated in the

MOTioNS TO DiSMSS OR .FFiRm.

opinion.
3 r William Warner, .r
H7agerman for the motions.
Hr"Sawnwe Robertson and
MR. CHiEF
court.

JUSTICE

0

17. Dean and .P

James

r FW 0 Dams opposing.

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

SIUGG v. THORNTON.
Opinion of the Court.

James T. Thornton filed his petition in the District Court of
Cooke County, Texas, against J W Sacra, J W Wilson, Isaac
Cloud and E. C. Sugg & Bro., averring the latter to be a
copartnership composed of E. C. Sugg and Iker Sugg, and that
E. C. Sugg resided m Tarrant County, Texas, and Iker Sugg
in Johnson County, Wyoming Territory, to recover on a
promissory note for $26,964.05, purporting to have been
signed by Sacra, Wilson, Cloud and E. C. Sugg & Bro. The
petition prayed for a citation to the defendants and a notice to
the defendant Iker Sugg, as provided by section 1230 of the
Revised Statutes of Texas, and for judgment for the amount
pf the note, and for costs, and for general and special relief.
All of the defendants were served in Texas except Iker Sugg,
to whom notice and a certified copy of the petition were
delivered under the statute, in Wyoming Territory
Sections 1224, 1230 and 1346 of the Revised Statutes of
Texas are as follows
"Art. 1224. In suits against partners the citation may be
served upon one of the firm, and such service shall be sufficient
to authorize a judgment'against the firm and against the partner actually served."
"Art. 1230. Where the defendant is absent from the State,
or is a non-resident of the State, the clerk shall, upon the
application of any party to the suit, his agent or attorney,
address a notice to the defendant requiring him to appear and
answer the plaintiff's petition at the time and place of the
holding of the court, naming such time and place. Its style
shall be ' The State of Texas,' and it shall give the date of the
filing of the petition, the file number of the suit, the names of
all the parties and the nature of the plaintiff's demand, and
shall state that a copy of the plaintiff's petition accompanies
the notice. It shall be dated and signed and attested by the
clerk, with the seal of the court impressed thereon, and the
date of its issuance shall be noted thereon, a certified copy of
the plaintiff's petition shall accompany the notice."
"Art. 1346. Where the suit is against several partners jointly
indebted upon contract, and the citation has been served upon
some of such partners, but not upon all, judgment may be ren-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

dered therein against such partnership and against the partners
actually served, but no personal judgment or execution shall
be awarded against those not served." 1 Sayles' Texas Civil
Statutes, 411, 418, 448.
Judgment was rendered by the District Court m these
words
"This day came the plaintiff by his attorney, and the defendants having failed to appear and answer m this behalf,
but wholly made default, wherefore, the said James T. Thornton, plaintiff, ought to recover against the said J W Sacra,
J W Wilson, Isaac Cloud and E. C. Sugg & Bro., a copartnership composed of E. C. Sugg and 'Iker,' or J D. Sugg, the
said ' Iker' Sugg and J D. Sugg being one and the same person, and E. C. Sugg the partner served, defendants, his damages
by occasion of the premises, and it appearing to the court that
the cause of action is liquidated and proved by an instrument
of writing, it is ordered that the clerk do assess the damages
sustained by said plaintiff, and the said clerk now here having
assessed the damages aforesaid at the sum of twenty-eight
thousand one hundred and thirty-four" dollars and ninety-nine
cents, it is adjudged by the court, that the said plaintiff do have
and recover of the said defendants, the sum.of twenty-eight
thousand one hundred and thirty-four dollars and ninety-nine
cents, with interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, together with his .costs in this behalf expended and that
he have his execution.
"'It is further ordered by the court that execution issue for
the use of officers of court, against each party respectively for
the costs by him m this behalf incurred."
On December 5, 1885, J D. Sugg filed a petition to vacate
the judgment so far as it affected him, and his individual
property, and so far as it affected the property of the partnership of E. C. Sugg & Bro., upon the grounds That the note
was not given for a partnership liability of his firm, but that
the firm name was signed thereto as surety for Sacra, and
without authority, it being outside the scope of the partnership, that the judgment did not dispose of the case as to him,
that his name was not "Iker" or I. D. Sugg, but J D. Sugg,

SUGG v. THORNTON.
Opmion of the Court.

sometimes called "Ikard Sugg;" that the partnership of E. C.
Sugg & Bro. owned property in the State of Texas, and was
largely indebted, and that the assets of the firm would be
required to pay its debts. The petition was sworn to, and
sustained by the affidavits of E. C. Sugg and others.
In reply, Thornton filed an answer asking that the judgment be corrected as to the name of J D. Sugg, and alleging
*thatJ D. Sugg and Iker Sugg were one and the same person,
who, with E. C. Sugg, composed the partnership of E. C.
Sugg & Bro., that E. C. Sugg & Bro. owned property in
Texas, Wyoming and the Indian Territory, of the value of
about a million dollars, and were attempting to dispose of
their property with intent to defraud their creditors, that
plaintiff 'had obtained a judgment lien against their property
in Texas, and various facts tending to show that the note was
properly signed "E . C. Sugg & Bro. ;" and affidavits were
filed in support of this answer.
The District Court proceeded to determine the issues thus
raised, upon the affidavits, without objection, and overruled
the motion to vacate and set aside the judgment, and entered
an order directing the clerk to correct the judgment as asked
by Thornton, so as to give J ]D. Sugg's name correctly To
this action J ID.Sugg and E. C. Sugg & Bro. excepted, and
gave notice of an appeal to the Supreme Court.
Article 1037 of the Revised Statutes of Texas provides
"The appellant or plaintiff in error shall in all cases file
with the clerk of the court below an assignment of errors, distinctly specifying the grounds on which he relies before he
takes the transcript of the record from the clerk's office, and a
copy of such assignment of errors shall be attached to and
form a part of the record, and all errors not so distinctly specified shall be considered by the Supreme Court or Court of
Appeals as waived." 1 Sayles' Texas Civil Statutes, 339.
The defendants J. D. Sugg and E. C. Sugg & Bro. filed
such assignment of errors in these words
"Now come the defendants J. D. Sugg and E. C. Sugg
& Bro., and assign errors as follows, 1. The court erred in
overruling the motion of defendant J D. Sugg to vacate the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment herein. 2. The judgment is erroneous in not showing any disposition of the case as to defendant J D. Sugg,
otherwise called 'I ker Sugg.'
3. Though defendant J D.
Sugg was a party to this suit there was no discontinuance as
to him, or any disposition of the case as to him in said judgment. 4. The record shows that the court had no jurisdiction
of defendant J D. Sugg. 5. The pretended notice served upon
defendant J D. Sugg was without authority, and a nullity
6. The court erred in permitting the judgment herein to be
corrected."
The case was then taken by appeal to the Supreme Court of
Texas, and on the eighth day of May, 1888, that court adopted
the opinion of the Commission of Appeals, which is certified
as part of the record, and affirmed the judgment of the District Court.
The opinion, after stating the facts, points out that J D.
Sugg having submitted to a trial of the issues raised upon his
petition and upon affidavits, could not then be heard to complain of the result, and, as the affidavits were conflicting in
regard to the want of authority to sign the firm name to the
note, holds that the judgment should not be disturbed, and
thus concludes
"It is contended that the judgment is erroneous, because it
makes no disposition of the case as to appellant. The judgment is not against him, does not discontinue the case as to
him, nor does it contain any allusion to him, except in the use
of his name as descriptive of the partnership of E. C. Sugg &
Bro. If the judgment does not in terms or legal effect dispose
of the case as to all defendants, it is not a final judgment, and
this appeal could not be entertained. Appellant was a nonresident of this State, and the court could acquire no jurisdiction of his person, except by his appearance and voluntary
submission to the jurisdiction. This he might have done and
made any defence to the suit that any citizen of tins State
would have been entitled to make. The judgment rendered
was the only judgment that could have been rendered, and we
think it a final judgment. The court retained complete control of the judgment during the term at which it was ren-

SUGG v. THORNTON.
Opinion of the Court.

dered, and did not err m permitting it to be amended as to
the name of appellant, so as to correctly describe the partnership against which the judgment was rendered.
"We find no error in the record requiring reversal, and are
of the opinion that the judgment of the court below should be
affirmed."
The cause was thereupon brought to this court by writ of
error, allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
Texas, by endorsement upon the application therefor, in which
it is stated that the allowance is made without assent being
given to all the statements contained in the application. The
case now comes before us on a motion to dismiss or affirm.
Plaintiffs in error contend that the judgment against the
firm of E. C. Sugg & Bro., under which the property of the
partnership might be seized and sold, was not due process of
law under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, and that articles 1224 and 1230 of the Revised Statutes of Texas, under which the judgment was sought
to be sustained, were repugnant to that amendment. It does
not appear that any such question was raised in the state
courts. It is stated in the assignment of errors in the Supreme
Court that "the record shows that the court had no jurisdiction of the defendant J D Sugg," and that "the pretended
notice served upon defendant J D. Sugg was without authority and a nullity," but there was no error assigned that the
District Court had no jurisdiction of the copartnership of E.
C. Sugg & Bro.
As the Supreme Court of the State was only authorized to
review the decision of the trial court, for errors committed
there, and as J D. Sugg challenged the judgment on the
merits, and the .decision was against him, it is clear that there
is color for the motion to dismiss predicated upon a denial of
the existence of a Federal question so presented as to be available.
The rule applied by the Supreme Court m respect to the
action of the District Court on the motion to vacate is thus
expressed by Judge Brewer in Burdette v Corgan, 26 Kansas,
102, 104
VOL. cxn-34

OCTOBER TERAM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"The motion challenged the judgment not merely on jurisdictional but also on non-jurisdictional grounds, and whenever
such a motion is made the appearance is general, no matter
what the parties may call it in their motion. Cohen v Trowbrw~de, 6 Kansas, 385, Fee v Big &znd ron Co., 13 Ohio St.
563, Grantierv Joseerance, 27 Wisconsin, 489, 491, Alderson v TWhAde, 32 Wisconsin, 308, 309. Such a general appearance to contest a judgment on account of irregularities will,
if the grounds therefor are not sustained, conclude the parties
as to any further questioning of the judgment. A party cannot
come into court, challenge its proceedings on account of irregularities, and after being overruled be heard to say that he
never was a party in court, or bound by those proceedings. If
he was not in fact a party, and had not been properly served,
he can have the proceedings set aside on the ground of want of
jurisdiction, but he must challenge the proceedings on that
single ground."
The record shows that there was a conflict of testimony in
the District Court upon the question whether the signature of
E. C. Sugg & Bro. to the note sued upon was an authorized
partnership act. This was a question of fact simply, determined against the plaintiffs in error in the District Court, and
that determination affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. And with its judgment in that regard we have nothing to do.
If, however, the validity of the Texas statute and the judgment rendered thereunder was necessarily drawn in question,
and must have been passed on in order to a decision we find
no ground to question the conclusion reached because of repugnancy to the Constitution. The notice authorized by article
1230 cannot, of course, have any binding effect personally on
the party served therewith, but if the suit or proceeding is
intended to affect property in Texas belonging to him; or in
which he is interested, the notice may be very proper to apprise him of it and give him an opportunity to look after his
interests if he chooses. For this purpose it might be to his
advantage to receive it. It cannot legitimately serve any other
purpose, and it does not appear to have been used for any
other purpose in this case.

