PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. MILLER.

75

Syllabus.

nent fixtures which are essential to the successful operation
of the road, become a part of the property of the company,
as much so as if they had existed when the mortgage was
executed.
The doctrine that a vendor not taking security for the price
of realty sold by him holds in equity a lien upon the property
for such price is not controverted, but it has no application to
the present case. The only right which the complainants
possessed was that which was recognized by the decree, a
right to redeem the property from the sale under the mortgage, a right which they were allowed to exercise within a
specific period, but, they declining to do so, the bill was

properly dismissed.
Decree caflmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. MILLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF COMON" PLEAS, NO. 2, FOR THE COUNTY
OF PHILADELPHIA, STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 36.

Argued October 24, 25, 1889.-Decided November 11, 1889.

Neither the charter of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, contained in an
act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, passed April 13, 1846, (Laws of
1846, No. 262, p. 312,) nor the acts supplementary thereto, nor the act of
that legislature, passed May 16, 1857 (Laws of 1857, No. 579, p. 519,) constituted such a contract between the State and the company as exempted
the latter from the operation of § 8 of Article XVI of the constitution of
Pennsylvania of 1873, requiring that corporations invested with the pnvilege of taking private property for public use should make compensation
for property injured or destroyed by the construction or enlargement of
their works, highways or improvements; nor did such constitutional provision, as applied to the company in respect to cases afterwards arising,
impair the obligation of any contract between it and the State.
The company took its original charter subject to the general law of the
State, and to such changes as might be made in such general law and
subject to future constitutional provisions and future general legislation,
since there was no prior contract with it exempting it from liability to
such future general legislation, m respect of the subject matter involved.

OOTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
Exemption from future general legislation, either by a constitutional provision or by an act of the legislature, cannot be admitted to exist, unless
it is expressly given, or unless it follows by an implication equally clear
with express words.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.A& Mayne .Me YeagA for plaintiff m error.
Wintersteen was with him on the brief.

MrIbA. H.

r .Davzd T Watson and X.r M. Ham~pton Todd for defendant in error. Ar George IF Bzddle was with them on
the brief.
AIR.

JUSTICE BLATOHFOiRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action on the case, brought in June, 1881, by
George R. Duncan against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, in the Court of Common
Pleas No. 2, for the county of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The planiitiff sued as the owner in fee of a piece of land, with
the buildings, wharves and improvements thereon, situated
at the northwest corner of Twenty-third Street and Filbert
Street, in the city of Philadelphia, and extending 230 feet and
11 inches along the west side of Twenty-third Street, and 426
feet from that corner along the north side of Filbert Street, to
low-water mark on the Schuylkill River.
The declaration alleged that the defendant had constructed
along and upon Filbert Street, and in front of the premises of
the plaintiff, an elevated railroad, placed on iron and stone
pillars set at the curb-lines in Filbert Street, at intervals longitudinally of 50 feet, more or less, and at an elevation of at
least 20 feet above the established grade of Filbert Street, and
had constructed an abutment for the sustaining of a bridge
superstructure across the Schuylkill River, on the eastern side
of said river and'in the middle of Filbert Street, in front of
the premises of the plaintiff, and had constructed, opposite
Filbert Street, in the channel of the river, two piers to further
support the bridge superstructure, the bridge and the elevated
railroad making a continuous line of railway, operated by the

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. MILLER.

77

Opmion of the Court.

defendant, to transport freight and passengers in cars drawn
by steam locomotives, that Twenty-third Street and Filbert
Street, at the place in question, were public highways of the
city of Philadelphia, that the construction by the defendant
of the elevated railroad, and of the abutment and pier for the
support of the bridge superstructure, and the operation and
use of the elevated railroad to transport freight and passengers
in cars drawn by steam locomotives, and the noise, burning
cinders, smoke, dust and dirt, incident to the use of such railroad, had injured the plaintiff in the enjoyment of his premises,.
and had rendered the same incommodious, and of little or no
value to him, and had deprived him of the free use of Filbert
Street as a highway, and of free access to and from the wharves
on the river front of his property, by the river as well as by
Filbert Street, and had greatly depreciated the value of the
wharves, and that the injuries were committed on the 1st of
June, 1881, and at all times since.
The elevated railroad in question was built by the defendant
in 18 0 and 1881, and was opened for freight in April, 1881, and
for passengers in December, 1881. It is known as the Filbert
Street extension, and crosses the Schuylkill River a short distance above Market Street, and ends at Broad Street. From
Twenty-first Street west to the river the tracks were laid upon
a structure of wooden and iron beams directly over the cartway of the street, and were sustained by iron pillars some 18
inches square, resting upon the footway inside of the curb-line.
This was the case along the whole length of the south side
of the plaintiff's property, the structure being some 40 feet
high, and the railing or guard along the track coming within
one or two feet of the wall of the plaintiff's building. None
of the plaintiff's property was actually taken by the defendant, but the action was brought for the consequential damages
caused by the construction of the railroad and its use and
operation.
The defendant set up, among other defences, that it had the
right to do what it had done, without liability to the plaintiff,
by virtue of its charter, contained in an act passed by the legislature of Pennsylvania, April 13, 1846, (Laws of 1846, No. 262,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

p. 312,) and by virtue of a further act of that legislature, passed
May 16, 1857 (Laws of 1857, No.579, p. 519).
The case was tried before the court and a jury, and resulted
in a verdict for the plaintiff, for $20,000, for which amount,
with costs,, he had judgment. On a writ of error, the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
Pennsylvanz'a Railroad Co. v Duncan, 111 Penn. St. 352, and
the defendant has brought the case to this court by a writ of
error to the court of first instance, to which the record had
been remitted. Duncan having died, his admimstrator has
been substituted as defendant in error.
The Federal question involved is whether the acts of 1846
and 1857 constituted a contract between the State and the defendant, relieving the defendant from liability in this suit,
and whether such contract was of such a character that its
obligation could not be impaired by subsequent legislation by
the State.
It is first necessary to see what are the provisions of the stata
utes on which the defendant relies.
The 11th section of the act of 1846 gave authority to the defendant to construct a railroad from Harrisburg to Pittsburg,
with a branch to Erie, and gave to it the right to enter upon
and occupy all land necessary for the purpose, and to "take"
the necessary materials from any land adjoining or in the
neighborhood of the railroad so to be constructed, " P 'ovded,
That such compensation shall be made, secured, or tendered to
the owner or owners of any such lands or materials as shall be
agreed upon between the parties, or in such manner as is hereafter mentioned Prodedfurther, That the timber used in
the construction or repair of said railroad shall be obtained
from the owners thereof only by agreement or purchase."
The 12th section provided for the fixing of such compensation,
when not agreed upon, through a petition to the court of
quarter sessions of the proper county The 17th section contained this provision "And it shall be lawful for the said
company, in the manner and subject to the conditions and provisions hereinbefore provided, in relation to the main line of
their railroad by this act authorized to be made, to make such

PENNSYLYANIA RAILROAD CO. v. XILLER.

79

Opinion of the Court.

lateral railroads or branches, leading from the main line of
their said railroad, to such convenient place or points, in either
of the counties into or through which the said main line of
their road may pass, as the president and directors may deem
advantageous, and suited to promote the convenience of the
inhabitants thereof, and the interests of said company"
By the 4th section of the act of March 27, 1848, (Laws of
1848, No. 224, p. 274,) passed as a supplement to the act of
1846, provision was made for ascertaining, through the action
of the court of common pleas of the proper county, the damages sustained by the owner of land or materials "taken" by
the defendant, in case such compensation could not lbe agreed
upon. Section 5 of that act provided as follows "That if
said railroad company shall find it necessary to change the site
of any portion of any turnpike or public road, they shall cause
the same to be reconstructed forthwith, at their own proper
expense, on the most favorable location, and in as perfect a
manner as the original road P'ovded,That the damages incurred in changing the location of any road authorized by this
section shall be ascertained and paid by said company in the
same manner as is provided for in regard to the location and
construction of their own road."
By § 1 of an act passed April 12, 1851, (Laws of 1851, No.
297, p. 518,) it was provided that the 5th section of the act of
1848, should be so construed as to include the streets, lanes
and alleys in any town, borough, or city through which the
road passed.
By the act of May 16, 1857, before referred to, provision
was made for the sale at public auction of the whole main
line of the public works of the State of Pennsylvania, which
included the Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad. The act
provided, among other things, (§ 3,) that it should be lawful
for any railroad company then incorporated by the State to
purchase such main line for a sum not less than $7,500,000,
and that if the Pennsylvania Railroad Company .should
become the purchaser at such public sale or by assignment,
(which assignment the act provided for,) it should pay in
addition to the purchase-money of not less than $7,500,000

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the further sum of $1,500,000, and should, in consideration
thereof, have forever certain exemptions from taxation. This
provision in regard to taxation was held unconstitutional by
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Mott v Pennsylvanta
.RailroadCo., 30 Penn. St. 9, a decision made before the sale
took place. The 3d section of the act further provided that
it should be lawful for the purchaser "to straighten and improve the said Philadelphia and Columbia iRailroad, and to
extend the same to the Delaware River, m the city of Philadelphia." The 11th section of the act provided as follows:
"That should any company already incorporated by this Commonwealth become the purchaser of said main line, they shall
possess, hold and use the same under the provisions of their
act of incorporation and any supplements thereto, modified,
however, so as to embrace all the privileges, restrictions and
conditions granted by this act in addition thereto, and all
provisions in said original act and any supplements inconsistent with the privileges herein granted shall be and the same
are hereby repealed."
At a meeting of the stockholders of the defendant, held on
the 20th of July, 1857, for the purpose of accepting or rejecting the provisions of the act of 1857, and of considering such
action as the directors of the defendant had taken in pursuance of that act, subject to the approval of the stockholders,
it was resolved, that the stockholders of the defendant accepted the provisions of the act, so far as the same in any
way related to or affected the defendant, and ratified and
approved of such action as had been taken by the board of
directors of the defendant, in purchasing the said main line of
the public works, pursuant to the provisions of that act, for
the sum of $7,500,000. The sale at public auction had taken
place on the 25th of June, 1857, and the property had been
purchased by the defendant for the sum above mentioned.
On the 31st of July, 1857, the State conveyed by deed poll to
the defendant the property so purchased, described as in the
margin.'
1 " The whole main line of the public works between the said cities of
Philadelphia and Pittsburg, in the State of Pennsylvania, consisting of the

PENSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. MILLER.

81

Opinion of the Court.

By the constitution of Pennsylvania of 1873, which took
effect January 1, 1874, it was provided as follows, by § 8 of
Article XVI " Municipal and other corporations and mdividuals invested with the privilege of taking private property
for public use shall make just compensation for property taken,
injured, or destroyed, by the construction or enlargement of
their works, highways, or improvements, which compensation
shall be paid or secured before such taking, injury, or destruction."
With these premises, we are prepared to consider the views
taken of tis case by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvama.
That court gave its assent to the principle that the charter of
It further stated that the
the defendant was inviolable.
framers of the constitution of 1873 did not intend to repeal

any of the provisions of that charter. It held that § 8 of
Article XVI of that constitution included not only then existPhiladelphia and Columbia Railroad, the Allegheny Portage Railroad, including the new road to avoid the inclined planes, with the necessary and convenient width for the proper use of said railroads, the Eastern Division of
the Pennsylvania canal, from Columbia to the junction, the Juniata Division of the Pennsylvania canal, from the junction to the eastern terminus
of the Allegheny Portage Railroad, And the Western Division of the Pennsylvania canal, from the western terminus of the Allegheny Portage Railroad to Pittsburg, and including also the right, title and interest of the
Commonwealth in the 'bridge over the Susquehanna, at Duncan's Island,
together with the same interest in the surplus water power of said canals,
with the right to purchase and hold such lands as may be necessary to make
the same available; and all the reservoirs, machinery, locomotives, cars,
trucks, stationary engines, workshops, tools, water-stations, toll-houses,
offices, stock and materials whatsoever and wheresoever thereunto belonging or held for the use of the same, and together with all the right, title.
interest, claim, and demands of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to all
property-real, personal and mixed-belonging unto or used in connection with the same by the said Commonwealth, and together with all and
singular other the buildings, improvements, powers, authorities, ways, means
and remedies, estates and interests, rights, members, incidents, liberties,
privileges, easements, franchises, emoluments, reversions, remainders, rents,
issues, profits, hereditaments, and appurtenances of what name, nature, or
kind soever thereto belonging or in anywise appertaining, which by force
and virtue of the said recited act of assembly and the provisions thereof
were meant and intended and of right ought to be hereby assigned and
transferred therewith."
VOL. Cxxxii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing municipal corporations, but also then existmg "other
corporations." It further held, that the defendant did not
derive its authority to build the branch road in question, from
the western side of the Schuylkill River, through Filbert Street,
from the act of 1846, because that act embraced only the
power to build and operate a road from Harrisburg to Pittsburg, but that it derived such authority from the act of May,
1857, in the 11th section thereof, before quoted, and that the
convention which made the constitution of 1873 had the power
to subject the defendant's exercise of the right of eminent
domain to the provision that it should make just compensation, not only for the property which it might choose to
"take," in the strict sense of that word, but also for such as
it might injure or destroy
We think these views are sound. There was no such conbract between the State and the defendant, prior to the constitution of 1873, as prevented the subjection of the defendant
by that constitution to the liability for consequential damages
arising from its construction of this elevated road in 1880 and
1881. Prior to the constitution of 1873, and under the constitutional provisions existing in Pennsylvania before that tne,
the Supreme Court of that State had uniformly held that a
corporation with such provisions in its charter as those contained in the charter of the defendant, was liable, in exercising
the right of eminent domain, to compensate only for property
actually taken, and not for a depreciation of adjacent property
The 8th section of Article XVI of the constitution of 1873
was adopted in view of those decisions, and for the purpose of
remedying the injury to individual citizens caused by the nonliability of corporations for such consequential damages. Although it may have been the law in respect to the defendant,
prior to the constitution of 1873, that under its charter and the
statutes in regard to it, it was not liable for such consequential
damages, yet there was no contract in that charter, or in any
statute in regard to the defendant, prior to the constitution of
1873, that it should always be exempt from such liability, or
that the State, by a new constitutional provision, or the legislature, should not have power to impose such liability upon it,

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. MILLER.

83

Opinion of the Court.

in cases which should arise after the exercise of such power.
But the defendant took its original charter subject to the general law of the State, and to such changes as might be made
in such general law, and subject to future constitutional provisions or future general legislation, since there was no prior
contract with the defendant, exempting it from liability to
such future general legislatioin, m respect of the subject matter
involved.

This principle is well set forth in the opinion of the justices
of the Supreme Judicial Court.of Massachusetts, given by them
in answer to a question submitted to them by the senate of
that Commonwealth, m In re Prowdent Instutwonfor Savrngs,
9 Cush. 604. See, also, -Helson,v Jermont & CanadaRailroad
Co., 26 Vermont, 717, Thorpe v Rutland & Burlington Railroad,27 Vermont, 140, Bransn v Connectwut & Passumpsw
Railroad, 31 Vermont, 214, Framnkford Railway v The
City, 58 Penn. St. 119, Baltimore & Susquehanna Railroadv
NYesbzt, 10 How 395, 399, 400, Pum)elly v Green Bay Co., 13
Wall. 166, Railroad Co. v Hecht, 95 U. S. 168, 170, Beer Co.
v .Mlassachusetts,97 U. S. 25, 32, 33 , Newton v Conmmsszoners,
100 U. S. 548, 557, Missour Pa-ief Railway v Humes, 115
U. S. 512, 1 Hare's American Coust. Law, 609, 610, 2 Aforawetz
on Private Corporations, 2d ed. §§ 1062, 1065, 1067, Cooley's
Const. Limit., 4th ed. * 574, 716.
The provision contained in the constitution of 1873 was
merely a restraint upon the future exercise by the defendant
of the right of eminent domain imparted to it by the State.
By its terms, it imposes a restraint only upon corporations and
individuals invested with the privilege of taking private property for public use, and extends the right to compensation, previously existing, for property taken, to compensation for
property injured or destroyed by the construction or enlargement of works, highways or improvements, made or constructed
by such corporations or individuals. Such provision is eminently just, and is intended for the protection of the citizen,
the value of whose property may be as effectually destroyed as
if it were in fact taken and occupied. The imposition of such
a liability is of the same purport as the imposition of a liability

