EASTINGS ETC. RAILROAD CO. v. WHITNEY.

357

Opinion of the Court.

HASTINGS AND DAKOTA RAILROAD
v. WHIITN EY

COMPANY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 49. Argued October 31, November 1, 1889. -Decided

December 9, 1889.

So long as a homestead entry, valid upon its face, remains a subsisting entry
of record whose legality has been passed upon by the land authorities,
and their action remains unreversed, it is such an appropriation of the
tract as segregates it from the public domain, and precludes it from
a subsequent grant by Congress.
A defect in a homestead entry on public land in Minnesota made by a soldier
in active service in Virginia during the war, caused by want of the
requisite residence on it, was cured by the act of June 8, 1872 " to amend
an Act relating to Soldiers' and Sailors' Homesteads," 17 Stat. 333, c. 338,
ยง 1 (Rev Stat. ยง 2308).
While the decisions of the Land Department on matters of law are not
binding on tls court, they are entitled to great respect.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Yk Gordon E. Cole for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiCE LA-%rA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action, somewhat in the nature of a suit in equity,
originally brought in the District Court of lRamsey County,
Minnesota, by the Hastings and Dakota Railroad Company,
(a corporation organized under the laws of that State,) against
Julia D. and John Whitney, to recover a tract of about eighty
acres of land situated in that county, for which the defendants
have a United States patent.
The material facts in the case are undisputed, and are substantially as follows: By the act of July 4, 1866, Congress
granted to the State of Minnesota, for the purpose of aiding in
the construction of a railroad from Hastings, through the
counties of Dakota, Scott, Carver, and McLeod, to such point
on the western boundary of the State as the legislature of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

State might determine, every alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of five alternate sections
per mile on each side of the road. The act further provided
that "1ii case it shall appear that the United States have,
when the lines or route of said roads are definitely located,
sold any section, or part thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that
the right of pre6mption or homestead settlement has attached
to the same, or that the same has been reserved by the United
States for any purpose whatever, then it shall be the duty of
the Secretary of the Interior to cause to be selected, for the
purposes aforesaid, from the public lands of the United States
nearest to the tiers of sections above specified, so much land in
alternate sections or parts of sections, designated by odd numbers, as shall be equal to such lands as the United States have
sold, reserved or otherwise appropriated, or to which the right
of homestead settlement or prenimption has attached as aforesaid, which lands, thus indicated by odd numbers and sections,
by the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall be held
by said State of Minnesota for the purposes and uses afore1
said." 14: Stat. 87, c. 168, ยง 1.
On the 7th of March, 1867, the legislature of Minnesota accepted this grant, and transferred it over to the plaintiff. The
railroad company complied with all the terms and conditions
of the acts of Congress and of the legislature of the State of
Minnesota, and, on or about the 7th of March, 1867, definitely
located its line of road by filing its map in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The land which is the subject of tins controversy fell within
what are known as the ten-mile limits of the aforesaid grant,
when the line of road was definitely located.
The case being brought on for trial on evidence produced
by the respective parties, the court made and filed its findings
of fact and conclusions of law, the essential parts of which are
as follows
"Claiming to act under the provisions of section 2293 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, one Bentley S. Turner,
on the 8th of May, 1865, then being a soldier in the army of
the United States, and actually with his regiment in the State

HASTIINGS ETC. RAILROAD CO. v. WHITNEY.

359

Opunon of the Court.

of Virginia, made an affidavit and caused the same to be filed
in the local land office of the district wherein said land was
situate. Said affidavit was made before his commanding
officer in the State of Virginia, and stated that said Turner
was-the head of a family, a citizen of the United States, and a
resident of Franklin County, New York. Application was
made through one Conwell, whom said Turner constituted his
attorney for that purpose, upon said affidavit, to enter said
land as a homestead. Said affidavit did not state that Turner's
family or any member thereof was residing on the land, or
that there was any improvement thereon, and, as a matter of
fact, no member of his family was then residing, or ever did
reside, on said land, and no improvement whatever had ever
been made thereon by any one. Thereupon, upon being paid
their fees by said Conwell, the register and receiver of said
land office allowed said entry, and the same stood upon the
records of said local land office and upon the records of the
General Land Office uncancelled until September 30th, 1872,
when said entry was cancelled by the proper officers of the
United States. It does not appear that any specific reason
was assigned for said cancellation, nor does the reason for said
cancellation appear, save as it may be furnished by the facts
aforesaid. On the 7th day of May, 1877, without notice to
the plaintiff, the defendant, Julia D. Whitney, then a single
woman, by name Julia D. Graham, who has since intermarried
with said defendant, John Whitney, did enter said land at the
local land office as a homestead, and thereafter, in the usual
course of business, the officers in charge of the General Land
Office of the United States caused a patent of the United
States for said land to be issued in due form, and delivered to
said defendant Julia, who ever since May 7th, 1877, has been
and now is in the actual occupancy of said premises, holding
the same under said patent. Said land is of the value of six
hundred dollars ($600)."
After making these findings of fact, and holding as a conclusion of law that the alleged entry of Turner was absolutely
void, that the title to the land in dispute was, under the land
grant to the State, vested in the plaintiff, and that the entry

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

of Julia D. Whitney thereon was unauthorized and of no effect,
the court entered a decree in favor of the plaintiff in error.
On an appeal by the defendant to the Supreme Court of the
State that decree was reversed, without any order for a new
trial. 34 Minnesota, 538. Such reversal, under the laws of
Minnesota, is, in effect, the final judgment of the highest court
of that State in which a decision of the cause could be had,
and the case has been brought here by a writ of error.
Section 1 of the act of March 21, 1864, 13 Stat. 35, (now
section 2293 of the Revised Statutes,) under which Turner's
homestead entry was made, provides as follows
"In case of any person desirous of availing himself of the
benefits of this chapter, but who, by reason of actual service
in the military or naval service of the United States, is unable
to do the personal preliminary acts at the district land office
which the preceding sections require, and whose family, or
some member thereof, is residing on the land which he desires
to enter, and upon which a bona flde improvement and settlement have been made, such person may make the affidavit required by law before the officer commanding in the branch of
the service in which the party is engaged, which affidavit shall
be as binding in law, and with like penalties, as if taken before
the register or receiver, and upon such affidavit being filed
with the register by the wife or other representative of the
party, the same shall become effective from the date of such
filing, provided the application and affidavit are accompanied
by the fee and commissions as required by law"
The question presented for our consideration is, whether,
upon the facts found and admitted, the homestead entry of
Turner upon the land in controversy excepted it from the
operation of the land grant under which plaintiff m error
claims title.
The doctrine first announced in Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet.
498, that a tract lawfully appropriated to any purpose becomes
thereafter severed from the mass of public lands, and that no
subsequent law or proclamation will be construed to embrace
it or to operate upon it, although no exception be made of
it, has been reaffirmed and applied by this court "in such a

IASTINGS ETC. RAILROAD CO. v. WHITNEY.

361

Opinion of the Court.

great number and variety of cases that it may now be regarded as one of the fundamental principles underlying the
land system of this country
In l'itlierspoon v .Duncani. 4 Wall. 210, this court decided,
in accordance with the decision m Carroll v Sacford, 3 How
441, that "lands originally public cease to be public after they
have been entered at the land office, and a certificate of entry
has been obtained." And the court further held that tins applies as well to homestead and preemption as to cash entries.
In either case, the entry being made, and the certificate being
executed and delivered, the particular land entered thereby
becomes segregated from the mass of public lands, and takes
the character of private property The fact that such an entry may not be confirmed by the land office on account of
any alleged defect therein, or may be cancelled or declared
forfeited on account of non-compliance with the law, or even
declared void, after a patent has issued, on account of fraud,
in a direct proceeding for that purpose m the courts, is an incident inherent in all entries of the public lands.
In the light of these decisions the almost uniform practice of
the department has been to regard land, upon which an entry
of record valid upon its face has been made, as appropriated
and withdrawn from subsequent homestead entry, preemption
settlement, sale or grant until the original entry be cancelled
or declared forfeited, in which case the land reverts to the
government as part of the public domain, and becomes again
subject to entry under the land laws. The correctness of this
holding has been sustained by this court in the case of Kansas
Paczjp Railway v Duimneyer, 113 U S. 629, and the principle
applied to a railroad grant act, which contained the same exceptions as those embodied in the act under which the plaintiff in
error claims title to the tract in controversy In that case a
homestead claim had been made and filed in the land office by
one Miller, and there recognized by a certificate of entry, before the line of the company's road was located. Subsequently
to the location he abandoned his entry and took a title under
the railroad company, and his homestead entry was cancelled.
One G. B. Dunmeyer then entered the land under the home-

OCTOBER TER1VM,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

stead law, claiming that, by the cancellation for abandonment,
it had passed back into the mass of public lands and was not
brought within the grant, and upon that claim ousted the defendant in error, who afterwards brought his action against
the railroad company for a breach of covenant, obtaining a
judgment in the court below, which was afterwards affirmed
by this court.
The court said, Mr. Justice Miller delivering its opinion
"The record shows that, on July 25, 1866, Miller made a
homestead entry on this land which was in every respect valid.
It also shows that the line of definite location of the
September 21, 1866."
company's road was first filed
p. 634.
"In the language of the act of Congress, this homestead
claim had attac ed to the land, and it therefore did not pass
by the grant. Of all the words in the English language, this
word attac ed was probably the best that could have been
used. It did not mean mere settlement, residence, or cultivation of the land, but it meant a proceeding in the proper land
office, by which the inchoate right to the land was initiated.
It meant that by such a proceeding a right of homestead had
fastened to that land, which could ripen into a perfect title by
future residence and cultivatiom With the performance of
these conditions the company had nothing to do." p. 644.
"It is argued by the company that, although Miller's homestead entry had attached to the land, within the meaning of
the excepting clause of the grant, before the line of definite
location was filed by it, yet when Miller abandoned his claim,
so that it no longer existed, the exception no longer operated,
and the land reverted to the company -that the grant by its
inherent force reasserted itself and extended to or covered the
land as though it had never been within the exception.
"We are unable to perceive the force of this proposition."
p. 639, 640.

HASTINGS ETC. RAILROAD CO. v. WHITNEY.

363

Opinion of the Court.

"No attempt has ever been made to include lands reserved
to the United States, which reservation afterwards ceased to
exist, within the grant, though this road, and others with
grants in similar language, have more than ouce passed
through military reservations for forts and other purposes,
which have been given up or abandoned as such reservations,
and were of great value. Nor is it understood that, in any
case where lands had been otherwise disposed of, their reversion to the government brought them within the grant.
"Why should a different construction apply to lands, to
which a homestead or preemption right had attached 29 Did
Oongress intend to say that the right of the company also
attaches, and whichever proved to be the better right should
obtain the land 9" p. 64:1.
Counsel for plaintiff in error contends that the case just
cited has no application to the one we are now considering,
the difference being that in that case the entry existing at the
time of the location of the road was an entry valid in all respects, while the entry in tns case was invalid on its face, and
in its inception, and that this entry having been made by an
agent of the applicant, and based upon an affidavit which
failed to show the settlement and improvement required by
law, was, on 'its face, not such a proceeding, in the proper land
office, as could attach even an inchoate right to the land.
We do not think this contention can be maintained. Under
the homestead law three things are needed to be done m order
to constitute an entry on public lands First, the applicant
must make an affidavit setting forth the facts which entitle
him to make such an entry, second, he mu~t make a formal
application, and, third, he must make payment of the money
required. When these three requisites are complied with, and
the certificate of entry is executed and delivered to him, the
land is entered. If either one of these
entry is made -the
integral parts of an entry is defective, that is, if the affidavit
be insufficient in its showing, or if the application itself is informal, or if the payment is not made in actual cash, the register and receiver are justified in rejecting the application.
*But if, notwithstanding these defects, the application is

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

allowed by the land officers, and a certificate of entry is delivered to the applicant, and the entry is made of record, such
entry may be afterwards cancelled on account of these defects
by the Commissioner, or on appeal by the Secretary of the
Interior, or, as is often the practice, the entry may be suspended, a hearing ordered and the party notified to show by
supplemental proof a full compliance with the requirements of
the department, and on failure to do so the entry may then
be cancelled. But these defects, whether they be of form or
substance, by no means render the entry absolutely a nullity
So long as it remains a subsisting entry of record, whose
legality has been passed upon by the land authorities, and
their action remains unreversed, it is such an appropriation of
the tract as segregates it from the public domain, and therefore precludes it from subsequent grants. In the case before
us, at the time of the location of the company's road, an examination of the tract books and the plat filed in the office of the
register and receiver, or in the land office, would have disclosed Turner's entry as an entry of record, accepted by the
proper officers in the proper office, together with the application and necessary money - an entry the imperfections and
defects of which could have been cured by a supplemental
affidavit or by other proof of the requisite qualifications of
the applicant. Such an entry attached to the land a right
which the road cannot dispute for any supposed failure of the
entryman to comply with all the provisions of the law under
which he made his claim. A practice of allowing such contests would be fraught with the gravest dangers to actual
settlers, and would be subversive of the principles upon which
the munificent railroad grants are based.
As was said in the Dunmeyer case, suira
"It is not conceivable that Congress intended to place these
parties [homestead and preemption claimants on the one hand
and the railway company on the other] as contestants for the
land, with the right in each to require proof from the other of
complete performance of its obligation. Least of all is it to be
supposed that it was intended to raise up, in antagonism to all
the actual settlers on the soil, whom it had invited to its occu-

HASTINGS ETC. RAILROAD CO. v. WHITNEY.

365

Opinion of the Court.

pation, this great corporation, with an interest to defeat their
claims, and to come between them and the government as to
the performance of their obligations." p. 641.
A question somewhat analogous, in principle, to the one in
this case, arose in l"ewhall v. Sanger, 92 U S. 761. In that
case, LNewhall claimed under a patent issued to the Western
Pacific Railroad Company for land supposed to be within the.
grant made by the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120,
and that of July 2, 1861, 13 Stat. 356, c. 216, and Sanger
claimed under a subsequent patent which recited, among other
things, that the former patent had been erroneously issued.
The land in controversy had been within the boundaries of
a claim made under a Mexican grant, which was pending in
the Land Department of the United States at the time the
order withdrawing the railroad lands from entry was made.
The Mexican claim was rejected a few days thereafter because of its fraudulent character. Under that state of facts, the
contention of the railroad company was, that, the Mexican claim
having been declared invalid, the land in controversy became
subject to the operation of the granting acts, and, therefore,
passed to the company But this court declared otherwise,
and held that the land never became subject to the grant, and
that the claimant under the second patent had the better title.
In addition to this, section 2308 of the Revised Statutes provides
"Where a party at the date of his entry of a tract of land
under the homestead laws, or subsequently thereto, was actually enlisted and employed in the Army or Navy of the United
States, his services therein shall, in the administration of such
homestead laws, be construed to be eqivalent, to all intents
and purposes, to a residence of the same length of tune upon
the tract so entered," etc.
That act is a curative act, or, rather, one putting a construction upon the prior act of 186., under which the Turner entry
was made. The effect of it is to declare service in the Army
or Navy of the United States by the applicant, at the date of
an entry made under the act of 1864, equivalent to actual residence upon the land by him. In that view of the case the affi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

davit in the Turner entry was sufficient, for, in contemplation of
law, he was then residing upon the tract embraced in his entry
The conclusion at which we have arrived is in harmony with
the later rulings of the Land Department. See Graham v
Hastings & -Dakota Railroad, (this case,) 1 Land Dec. 380,
St. Paul &c. Railway v Forseth, 3 Land Dec. 457, So. -Minn.
Railway v. Gallipean, 3 Land Dec. 166 , Hasthngs & -Dakota
Railway v Undted States, 3 Land Dec. 479, St. Paul &c. Railway v _Leech, 3 Land Dec. 506, Hastings & -DakotaRailway
v lFhitnall, 4 Land Dec. 249, and many otherg of like tenor
and effect.
It is true that the decisions of the Land Department on matters of law are not binding upon this court, in any sense. But
on questions similar to the one involved in this case they are
entitled to great respect at the hands of any court. In Untted
States v 2foore, 95 U S. 760, 763, this court said "The construction 'iven to a statute by those charged with the duty of
executing it is always entitled to the most respectful consideration, and ought not to be overruled without cogent reasons.
The officers concerned are usually able men, and masters of the subject. Not unfrequently they are the draftsmen
of the laws they are afterwards called upon to interpret."
See also Brown v United States, 113 U. S. 568, 571, and cases
there cited, Unded States v Burlington &c. Railroad, 98
U. S. 334, 34,1, KYansas Pacific Railroad v Atchson Railroad,112 U. S. 414, 418.
Other subsidiary questions have been argued by counsel for
plaintiff in error, but they are all virtually disposed of in the
foregoing.
For the foregoing reasons we concur with the court below
that Turner's homestead entry excepted the land from, the
operation of the railroad grant, and that upon the cancellation
of that entry the tract in question did not inure to the benefit
of the company, but reverted to the government and became
a part of the public domain, subject to appropriation by the
first legal applicant, who, as the record shows, was the defendant in error, Julia D. Whitney, nee Graham.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is Afirmed-

