OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

The judgment of the Supreme Court simply affirmed the
judgment of the District Court. As regards the relief sought
by the plaintiffs, the latter judgment merely enjoined the defendants, and ordered an accounting by them before a referee
concerning the rock and ore taken by them from the mine.
The bill prays for such injunction, and for such accounting,
and for the payment to the plaintiffs of what shall be found
due to them upon such accounting. In this respect, the decree
is of the same character with that considered by us in Heystone Manganese & Iron Co. v Martin, decided November
11, 1889, ante, 91, where the decree was held not to be final or
appealable.
Nor does it make any difference that the decree in the present case dismisses the cross-complaint of the defendants. The
filing of the cross-complaint was not the institution of a separate suit, but grew out of the original complaint. There was
but a single decree, and that was entitled in the original suit.
The right of the defendants to appeal from the decree, so far
as their cross-complaint is concerned, will be preserved, and
time will run against them, as to all parts of the present judgment of the District Court, only from the time of the entry of
a final decree after a hearing under the accounting which is to
be had. Ayers v Chwago, 101 U. S. 184, 187.
Appeal dismsssed.

CHANUTE CITY v. TRADER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 1509. Argued November 11, 1889. - Decided November 25, 1889.

A judgment for damages and costs was recovered m a Circuit Court of the
United States, on bonds and coupons issued by a municipal corporation.
In answer to an alternative writ of mandamus issued three and one-half
years afterwards, for the levy of a tax to satisfy the judgment, it was
set up, in bar, that the original judgment was void because the Circuit
Court had no jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action, on the

CHANUTE CITY v. TRADER.
Opinion of the Court.
ground that the bonds were not payable to order or bearer. A peremptory writ was granted by a judgment, to review which a writ of error
was taken. A motion to dismiss the writ was made, united with a
motion to affirm. Held,
(1) Although there was no ground for contending that this court had
no jurisdiction, yet the reasons assigned for taking the writ of
error were frivolous, and it was taken for delay only;
(2) The principal of the bonds was payable to bearer(3) The judgment ought to be affirmed,
(4) The proceeding by mandamus being in the nature of execution, if
the prosecution of writs of error to the execution of process to
enforce judgments were permitted when no real ground existed
therefor, such interference might become intolerable, and this
court in the exercise of its inherent power and duty to administer
justice, ought, independently of subdivision 5 of rule 6, to reach
the mischief by affirming the action below;
(5) No different interpretation is put on that subdivision from that
which has hitherto prevailed.

TnE plaintiff in error moved the court "to grant such order,
writ or mandate as may be fit and proper to secure to plaintiff
in error a stay of the peremptory writ of mandamus heretofore
issued by the court below, and to secure plaintiff in error the
supersedeas to which plaintiff in error is entitled under the
statute."
The defendant in error moved to dismiss the writ of error
under rule 6, and to affirm the judgment below The two
motions were heard together. The case is stated in the
opimon.
.Mr John IW Gleed and .MY' A. G Saff'ord in support of
the motion for a stay, and against the motion to dismiss.
M. John Hultchin and Hr Sarue Shellabargerin support
of the motion to dismiss, and against the motion for a stay
MR. JUSTICE BLA.ToHirorD delivered the opinion of the court.
Wilbur F Trader recovered a judgment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas against
the city of Chanute, on the 4th of December, 1885, for
$7702.12, damages and costs, on certain bonds and coupons

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

issued July 1, 1872, by the city of Tioga. Each bond stated
that the city of Tioga was "indebted to the Tioga Flouring
Mill Company, in the sum of five hundred dollars, lawful
money of the United States, with interest from the date hereof, at the rate of ten per cent per annum, as provided by law,
and payable semi-annually, as per interest coupons hereto
attached, the principal being due in ten years from date hereof and with the interest thereon payable at the office of the
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company in the city of New York,
to the bearer."
On the 27th of July, 1888. Trader served a notice on the
city of Chanute, addressed to the mayor and councilmen of
the city, requesting them to levy a tax on the taxable property within the city to pay and satisfy the judgment. It
does not appear that any execution has been issued on the
judgment.
On the 9th of July, 1889, Trader applied to the Circuit
Court for a writ of mandamus requiring the officers of the
city to levy a tax to satisfy the judgment. An alternative
writ was issued on that day In answer to the writ the city
set up, by way of plea in bar, that the original judgment was
void because the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action, as appeared from the petition in it,
which set forth a copy of one of the bonds sued on. The
point urged was that the bond was not payable to the Tioga
Flouring Mill Company or order, nor to bearer, and that only
the interest was payable to the bearer.
On a hearing on, the writ and return, the Circuit Court, on
October 14, 1889, rendered a judgment granting a peremptory
writ commanding the officers of the city to levy the tax. A
bill of exceptions was allowed, and the city has brought a writ
of error. The defendant in error now moves to dismiss the
writ of error and unites with it a motion to affirm the judgment.
Subdivision 5 of rule 6 of this court (108 U S. 575) was
first promulgated November 4, 1878, 97 U S. vii. It reads
as follows " There may be united, with a motion to dismiss
a writ of error or an appeal, a motion to affirm on the ground

CIAINUTE CITY v. TRADER.
Opinion of the Court.

that, although the record may show that this court has jurisdiction, it is manifest the writ or appeal was taken for delay
only, or that the question on which the jurisdiction depends is
so frivolous as not to need further argument."
At the same term, m WhF7tney v Cook, 99 U. S. 607, this
court, speaking by Chief Justice Waite, said that the rule
implied that there should appear on the record "at least some
color of right to a dismissal." He added "Our experience
teaches that the only way to discourage frivolous appeals and
writs of error is by the use of our power to award damages,
and we think this a proper case in which to say that hereafter
more attention will be given to that subject, and the rule enforced both according to its letter and spirit. Parties should
not be subject to the delay of proceedings for review in this
court without reasonable cause, and our power to make
compensation to some extent for the loss occasioned by an
unwarranted delay ought not to be overlooked."
The practice of not entertaining a motion to affirm unless
there is some color of right to a dismissal has since been frequently sustained by this court. Hinckley v Horton, 103 U.
S. 764:, School District of Ackley v Eall, 106 U. S. 428,
-Daviesv Corbin, 113 U S. 687, IFalston,v .2Vevm, 128 U. S.
578, Eew Orleans v, Construction, Co., 129 U. S. 45, The
6
.Alaska, 130 U. S. 201.
In .Micas v filliams, 104 U. S. 556, there was a motion to
affirm united with a motion to dismiss a writ of error. The
affidavits in opposition to the latter motion showed jurisdiction, as to the amount involved, though on the .record as it
stood when the motion was made there was color of right to
a dismissal. But the court affirmed the judgment on the
ground that the writ was taken for delay only
In Thie S. C. Tryon, 105 U. S. 267, there was a motion to
affirm a decree united with a motion to dismiss the appeal
in an admiralty suit. The ground for making the motion
to dismiss was that there was no bill of exceptions but only
a finding of facts and conclusions of law The court overruled that ground, but it is difficult, from the report of the
case, to see what color of right there was to a dismissal. Yet

OCTOBER TERiME, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

it affirmed the decree on a consideration of the findings of
fact.
In Swope v. Leffingwell, 105 U. S. 3, there was a motion to
affirm united with a motion to dismiss a writ of error to a
state court. The motion to dismiss was made on the ground
that there was no Federal question involved. The court held.
that it had jurisdiction, but affirmed the judgment on the
ground that the case on the merits was governed by previous
decisions.
In the present case there does not appear to be any ground
for contending that this court has no jurisdiction, yet we are
entirely satisfied that the reasons assigned for taking the writ
of error are frivolous, and that it was taken for delay only
The principal of the bonds is payable to bearer as well as the
interest. The principal is stated to be due in ten years, and,
with the interest, to be payable to the bearer. This is too
plain for discussion, and disposes of the point that the original
payee in the bonds was a citizen of Kansas, and thus of the
same State with the debtor, and could not have sued on the
bonds in the Circuit Court, and so the plaintiff could not.
But without putting a different interpretation on subdivision
5 of rule 6 from that which has hitherto prevailed, we are
of opinion that the judgment in the present case must be
affirmed. A! proceeding by-mandamus to compel the levy of
a tax to pay a judgment is in the nature of execution. The
rights of the parties to the judgment, in respect of its subject
matter, were fixed by its being rendered. If the prosecution
of writs of error to the execution -of process to enforce judg;
ments is permitted when no real ground exists therefor, such
interference might become intolerable. This court, in the exercise of its inherent power and duty to administer justice,
ought, independently of subdivision 5 of rule 6, to reach the
mischief by affirming the action below This is a proper case
for doing so.
Judgment a

mred.

