WATSON v. CINCINNATI RAILWAY CO.
Statement of the Case.

WATSON v. CINCINNATI, INIDIANAPOLIS, ST.
LOUIS AND CHICAGO RAILWAY COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 48. Argued October 31,1889. -Decided November 18, 1889.
The improvement in grain-car doors, as claimed by Chauncey R. Watson
and patented to him by letters patent No. 203,226, dated April 30, 1878,
may have been new and useful, but did not involve the exercise of the
inventive faculty, and embraced nothing that was patentable.

IN EQUITY.
follows:

The court stated the case in its opinion as

This was a bill filed by appellant against the Cincinnati,
Indianapolis, St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana,
alleging an infringement of letters patent No. 203,226, granted
to him for an improvement in gram-car doors, bearing date
the 30th day of April, 1878.
The complainant averred, in his bill, that the patent was intended to secure and did secure to hun "the sole and exclusive
right to make, use and sell a car for the transportation of grain
and other freight, constructed substantially like an ordinary
freight car, having an outside door for closing the car, and provided with an inside flexible or yielding sliding grain door, which
is adapted to be carried up on guide rods or their equivalent
over head and out of the way and under the roof of the cars,
that of such a car having an outside enclosing car door proper,
in combination with an inside sliding flexible grain door, he was
the first and original inventor," etc. These averments were
denied in the answer, which also alleged that the thing pat
ented in said patent, and every material or substantial part
thereof, had been shown and described prior to Watson's supposed invention in various letters patent, fifteen in number,
among them being a patent issued to Martin M. Crooker, May
VOL. Cxxx-=ll

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

26, 1868, and a patent issued to IHorace L. Clark, August 29,
1871, and further averred that the grain-car doors, referred
to m the bill as being on the cars of the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railway Company, were made under the Crooker
patent, which was afterwards assigned to Dennis F Van Liew,
and it was with his license and consent that the cars were so
equipped with said doors, that "the only differences between
said Crooker's doors and the complainant's are, that Crooker's
slide in grooves and have their slats fastened together by a
continuous wire running through them, while complainant's
slide on rods passing through staples, and are fastened together
by ordinary hinges, both being inside doors, and, with the exception of the above differences, operating in substantially the
same way, that complainant's door, as described in his patent,
contains no patentable invention in view of the Crooker patent,
nor is it any improvement thereon, nor in view of the state of
the art was there any patentable novelty or invention therein."
The answer also denied any infringement of Watson's patent.
Proofs having been taken, the bill was, upon hearing, dismissed,
from which decree appeal was prosecuted to this court. The
opinion by Woods, T., will be found reported in 23 Fed.
Rep. 443.
.-r Charles P Jacobs for appellant.
.Mr George Payson for appellee.
MR. CHiFF JusTIc FuLLFR, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The proof of the use of grain-car doors by the defendant
was contained m a stipulation, whereby it was agreed "that
the defendant had hauled over its line of road, in said State of
Indiana, freight cars belonging to the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railway Company, having a solid outside door, like
an ordinary freight car, and an inner flexible sliding gram
door of less height than the opening in the side of the car, the
grain door sliding in grooves like the grooves shown in the
patent of Martin M. Crooker, of May 26, 1868, and the slats

WATSON v. CINCINNATI RAILWAY CO.
Opimon of the Court.

composing the door being attached to each other by being
strung upon wires passing through the slats."
Watson's application was dated February 18, 1878, and contained the following claims
"1st. A grain door, constructed of longitudinal sectional
pieces, hinged or strapped together in such manner as that
the door as a whole may yield to follow any desired line of
movement when it is not in use as a grain door, and it is
desired to place it out of the way, substantially as herein
described.
"2d. A grain door, D, constructed as above described, and
hinged or strapped so as to be flexible or yielding, for the
purpose set forth, in combination with the guiding rods 0,
whereby, when not in use, it may be carried up and placed in
the horizontal portion of said guiding rods, so as to be out of
the way, substantially as described.
"13d. A gram door, D, constructed as described, and provided with staples o c, in combination with guiding rods C,
and devices for affixing it to the top of the car, substantially
as described and for the purposes set forth."
The application was rejected March 8, 1878, the examiners
stating "This 'grain door' differs from Crooker's (May 26,
1868, No. 78,188, carpentry doors), ' railroad car' only in the
name and m this, that the upper portion of Crooker's door is
cut off to make applicant's. The rods and staples are substitutes for Crooker's channel-irons - obvious to any skilled
workman." Watson then, on the 18th of March, 1878, amended
his specification by inserting
"1This invention relates to improvements in the cla's of
grain doors for cars, and the invention consists in the combination, with a car, of an inside vertically sliding flexible or
yielding door and guiding rods, whereby the door, when not
in use, may be carried up and placed on the horizontal portion of said guiding rods, so as to be out of the way"
"I am aware that a car door of similar construction, sliding
in grooved ways, is old, and such I do not desire to claim,
broadly, as my invention. Said door, however, constitutes an
outside or closing car door proper, and the car could not be

OCTOBER TERMN,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

loaded or used for bulk grain unless the grain is put in from
the roof of the car, as the door completely closes the doorway
or opening. Furthermore, said door is obviously objectionable for other reasons, viz. The grain will lodge or get in the
grooved ways in which the door slides, binding or locking it
so as to prevent its being raised, and also, being an outside
door, the grain, pressing against it, would force or bulge the
door outward, producing a similar effect as the grain lodging
in the grooved ways, whereas my door, being an inside door
and not reaching the top of the doorway or opening, admits
an open space at the top for loading in the grain, with an ordinary outside door, to be locked or otherwise secured after
the car is loaded. By also employing guiding rods for the
door to slide upon, and, being an inside door, the defects incident to the grooved ways and an outside door before referred
to are entirely obviated."
And at the same time he substituted for his first and second
claims the following
"1st. The combination, with a car, of an inside flexible or
yielding and vertically sliding grain door and giding rods 0,
whereby said door, when not in use, can be carried up and
placed on the horizontal portions of said guiding rods, out of
the way, substantially as and for the purpose herein shown
and described."
March 20, the application was again rejected, the examiners
stating
"It is not considered that Crooker in removing the upper
few slats of his door would be making a patentable improvement on his own invention, albeit he might change its name
and allege the result of loading in over the top of his door.
"The change is an obvious one to any user of freight cars,
further, the use of rods and eyes is old in this connection. See
patent of H. L. Clark, Aug. 29, 1871, No. 118,514 (carpentry
doors), which further confirms the former action in relation
thereto.
"In regard to the clogging and binding referred to in arg-ument, no clear or considerable results are seen to be accomplished by applicant's device over the reference, such as should
argue any invention thereon."

WATSON v. OILNCINNATI RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Watson then, on the 21st of March, 1878, further amended
by substituting for the first and second claims the following
"The combination, with a car, of an inside flexible or yielding sliding grain door, having staples o, and the vertical and
horizontal bent guiding rods 0, extending from the floor of the
car upwardly and under the roof of the car, as herein shown
and described, whereby said door, when not in use, can be carried up on the horizontal portions of said guiding rods, out of
the way, substantially as specified."
The examiners again responded, March 23, 1878
"The application does not present patentable novelty over
Crooker, cited.
"In view of the state of the art as shown by the references
cited, the use of eyes and rods for guiding the sliding door are
the simple mechanical eqmvalents of the channel irons of
Crooker. As claim does not differ in a matter of substance
from the preceding, it is a second time rejected."
An appeal was prosecuted to the examners-in-chief, who reversed the decision, saying
"The invention in this case is small and the claim is correspondingly limited. It consists of a combination of various
instrumentalities not found in either of the references.
"Applicant's car, as a whole, is adapted by convertibility to
uses not compatible with the cases cited, without injury In
this case the flexible door is applied in addition to the usual
slide doors, and when coarse freight is to be carried the flexible shutters are secured in place at the top under the roof of
the car."
The door in use upon the freight cars which appellee hauled
over its road, was a grain door sliding in grooves. The Watson
door was carried on rods with staples. Even if there were no
material difference between a door sliding in grooves and a
door sliding on rods and staples, there was no infringement,
for Watson had in effect disclaimed a door sliding in grooves
by his amendments and the terms of his specification as they
stood amended, and in the narrow claim of his patent the
staples e and the guiding rods 0 were part of his combination,
which he could not, under the circumstances, say were not es-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sential to it, nor that the gTooves were an equivalent. Gage
v .TJ 'mng.107 U S. 640, Fay v. Cordesma, 109 U. S. 408.
But counsel for appellant insists that Watson's real invention
"was not a question of rods or grooves. but was the combination
in a freight car having an outside rigid door, of an inner flexible sliding grain door."
The Crooker door was patented May 26, 1868, and made of
separate strips attached to each other by long continuous
metal straps, so as to -be flexible and capable of being slid up
out of the way under the roof of the car, in grooves or channel
irons affixed to the inside of the door-posts, but was a full and
not a half door. One of the doors was an inside door, as appears from the drawings, and was described in his specification
as follows "B B and B' B' are metallic grooved ways applied
at the margin of the door spaces d c and partially across the
car, immediately under the roof of the same, the vertical portions of the ways B' B' being on the inside of the car, just at
the edge of the said spaces, and firmly bolted in place upon
the car framing, or, if preferred, these vertical portions may
be in the door space itself, as is the case with those of the
ways B B." The Clark patent was issued August 29, 1871,
for a rigid grain door filling only half the opening, and sliding on rods to the top of the car, where it was then swung up
into a horizontal position, turning on eyes at the upper corners
of the rods. The evidence established that inside grain doors,
filling only part of the opening, had long been used on freight
cars in connection with the outside door. Watson's door was
made of separate slats, united to each other by hinges, and
provided with staples at both ends that encircled the guiding
rods on which the door might be slid up under the roof of the
car so as to be out of the way Making Crooker's door
smaller so as to fill only half the opening, and using it in connection with an ordinary outside door, in combination with a
car, is the invention claimed.
We agree with the learned judge holding the Circuit Court
when he says: "There is nothing in either specification or claim
concerning 'ordinary freight cars' nor solid sliding outside
doors, and in the claim nothing about outside doors at all,

