OCTOBER TER-l,

1889.

Statement of the Case.

govern the other. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah was based upon the same grounds, and
for the reasons given by us in that case we affirm the judgment in this.
Afflrmed.

'UITED STATES v. CARR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA-IS.
No. 411.

Submitted December 3, 1889.-Decided January 6, 1890.

When a sum of money has been voluntarily paid by the United States to a
mail contractor, by mistake of fact, or under circumstances to bring the
payment within the provisions of Rev Stat. ยง 4057, the amount may be
applied by the government towards the payment of any balance that may
be found due him, in the settlement of his accounts, for other services
under his contract.
A contract to carry the mails from one station to another station, by way of
two intervening specified stations, a stated number of miles and back, is
not performed by carrying them over that route one way, returning from
the terminal station to the place of beginning by a shorter route, avoid-

ing the intermediate stations.
When a contractor for carrying the mails seeks to recover the full contract
price, for a service which, as actually performed, was less than that contracted for, the burden of proof is on him to show knowledge or information by the Department of his conduct in the premises.
Knowledge by the Post-Office Department of the failure of a mail contractor
to perform the full service required by his contract is not to be presumed from reports of the local postmaster to the Department that the
service had been performed.

CARR filed his petition against the United States in the Court
of Claims on the 17th of February, 1885, averring that the
Postmaster General entered into a contract in writing with
him in April, 1878, for carrying the mails of the United States
from Salinas City, in the State of California, to Gabilan, in
that State, and back from Gabilan to Salinas City for the annual sum of $796, a copy of which contract he attached to his
petition, that at the time of the letting of the contract, and
for upwards of four years prior thereto, the mails were carried
upon the route aforesaid, outward from Salinas to Santa Rita,

UNITED STATES v. CARR.
Statement of the Case.

a distance of three miles, and from Santa Rita to Natividad, a
distance of four miles, and from the last-named place to Gabilan,
a distance of eight miles, and on the return trip direct from
Gabilan to Salinas, a distance of about ten miles, without passing through Natividad and Santa Rita, that he believed that
the mode of transportation last aforesaid was established under
the authority of the Postmaster General for said route, and
proposed to carry the mails upon said route for the compensation aforesaid, upon the understanding that the mails were,
during the term of the contract, intended by said proposal to
be carried in the manner before stated, that he commenced
service under the contract July 1, 1878, and for four years, including the 30th day of June, 1882, carried the mail six times
a week from Salinas, by way of Santa Rita and Natividad, to
Gabilan, and back direct from Gabilan to Salinas, by a direct
line, not passing through latividad and Santa Rita, that the
compensation was paid up to January 1, 1882, but not from
the first of January to the first of July, 1882, and that the
Postmaster General had refused to pay petitioner the sum of
$398, the amount of compensation due for the period last
mentioned, upon the ground that petitioner had not performed
his contract, inasmuch as he had not carried the mails from
Gabilan to Salinas by way of latividad and Santa Rita.
Petitioner further alleged that at the letting he presented proposals to the Postmaster General for carrying the mails upon
four other routes for the period of four years, namely, from
July 1, 1878, to June 30, 1882, and obtained contracts therefor
at certain compensation m the proposals named, that from the
compensation due on the last-named contracts, $348.25 was
withheld on account of the first-named contract, and there was
also deducted from the four last contracts the sum of $35.92,
for certain alleged delays m the transportation of the mail.
Petitioner therefore prayed judgment for the sum of $782.17.
The findings of fact and conclusion of law are as follows
CcI.
"In April, 1878, the Postmaster General and the claimant
entered into a contract to carry the mails on route No. 46,118,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

in the State of Califorma, from Salinas, by Santa Rita and
latividad, to Gabilan and back, six times a week, for the
annual sum of $796. The material portions of said contract
are set forth in Finding V
"II.

"The mails were carried on said route under said contract
for four years, commencing July 1, 1878, and ending June 30,
1882, as follows:
"The mails were carried by the claimant from Salinas, by
way of Santa Rita and INatividad, to Gabilan, and back to
Salinas by a direct route from Gabilan to Salinas. The distance from Salinas, by Santa Rita and latividad, to Gabilan
is twelve miles; the distance from Gabilan to Salinas by a
direct route is ten miles.
"That the said route was operated by the claimant since the
year 1810, the mails being always carried in the same manner
in which the same were carried by the claimant, namely, from
Salinas, by way of Santa Rita and lNatividad, to Gabilan, and
from Gabilan to Salinas direct, and until the date of the
certificate of inspection of the 12th of May, 1882, have always
been certified as duly carried and paid for accordingly by the
Post-Office Department. The provisions of the contract under
which said service was performed were in all respects similar
to the provisions of the contract sued on.
"III.
"For the failure of claimant to carry the mails via Santa
Rita and lNatividad, as aforesaid, from July 1, 1878, to March
31, 1882, the Postmaster General, upon May 13, 1882, entered
a deduction from his compensation of $146.25, which deduction equals one-quarter of the total compensation fixed by the
contract for whole service under it during the period covered
.by the alleged delinquency
"There is no proof that any subsequent failure to said date
of the claimant to carry the United States mail via Santa Rita
and latividad has ever come to the notice of the Postmaster
General or the Post-Office Department.

UNITED STATES v. CARR.
Statement of the Case.

c IV'
"In the advertisement of November 1, 1877, inviting proposals for carrying the mails of the United States incertain
States and Territories, the Postmaster General invited bids for
carrying said mails on the following route in California, to
wit
"'46,118. From Salihas, by Santa Rita and Natividad, to
Gabilan, 15 miles and back, six times a week.
"' Leave Salinas daily, except Sunday, at 1 p.m.,
"'Arrive at Gabilan by 7 P.m.,
"'Leave Gabilan daily, except Sunday, at 6 A.M.,
"'Arrive at Salinas by 12 m.
"'Bond required with bid, $1800.2

"'No. 46,118.

$796.

"'This article of contract, made on the 15th of March, 1878,
between the United States of America (acting in this behalf
by the Postmaster General) and J D. Carr, contractor, and
A. B. Jackson, of Salinas, Monterey County, California, and
George Pomeroy, of Salinas, Monterey County, California,
as his sureties, witnesseth That whereas J D. Carr has been
accepted, according to law, as contractor for transporting the
mail on route No. 46,118, from Salinas, Cal., by Santa Rita and
Natividad, to Gabilan and back, six tunes a week, at $796
per year, for and during the term beginning July 1, 1878,
and ending June 30, 1882.
"'For which services, when performed, the said J D. Carr,
contractor, is to be paid by the United States the sum of
$796 a year, to wit Quarterly, in the months of November,
February, May and August, through the postmasters on the
route, or otherwise, at the option of the Postmaster General,
said pay to be subject, however, to be reduced or discontinued
by the Postmaster General, as hereinafter stipulated, or to be
suspended in case of delinquency
"' It is hereby stipulated and agreed by the said contractor

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and his sureties that the Postmaster General may discontinue
or extend this contract, change the schedule and termini of the
route, and alter, increase, decrease, or extend the service, in
accordance with law, he allowing apro rata increase of compensation for any additional service thereby required, or for
increased speed, if the employment of additional stock or
carriers is rendered necessary, and in case of decrease, curtailment, or discontinuance of service, as a full indemnity to said
contractor, one month's extra pay on the amount of service
dispensed with, and a p_'o ata compensation for the service
retained Prowded, however, That in case of increased expedition, the contractor may, upon timely notice, relinquish the
contract.
1'1It is hereby also stipulated and agreed by the said
contractor and his sureties as aforesaid that they shall forfeit "'11. The pay of a trip when it is not run, and, in addition,
if no sufficient excuse for the failure is furnished, an amount
not more than three times the pay of the trip.
"'2. At least one-fourth of the pay of the trip when the
running is so far behind time as to fail to make connection
with a depending mail.
"1
'3. For violating any of the foregoing provisions touching
the transmission of commercial intelligence more rapidly than
by mail, or giving preference to passengers or freight over
the mail or any portion thereof, or for leaving the same for
their accommodation, or carrying, otherwise than in the mail,
matter which. should go by mail, or transporting persons engaged in so doing, with knowledge thereof, a penalty equal to
a quarter's pay
"'14. For violating any other provision of this contract touching the carriage of the mails, or the tune and manner thereof,
without a satisfactory explanation of the delinquency, in due
time, to the Postmaster General, a penalty in his discretion.
That these forfeitures may be increased into penalties of a
higher amount, in the discretion of the Postmaster General,
according to the nature or frequency of the failure and the
importance of the mail. Proded, That except as herein

UNITED STATES

. CARR.

Statement of the Case.

otherwise specified, and except as provided by law, no penalty
shall exceed three times the pay of a trip in each case.'
[Duly signed, sealed and delivered.]
"VI.
"'CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.

"'
"OFFICE

PosT-OFFICE DEPARTMENT.

OF THE SEcoND A. sISTAITT POSTMASTER GENERAL.
"'DsIO OF INsPrEToN,

"Faslhngton,1? C., October 23, 1878.
"'Sr: I hereby certify that the mails have been carried
by contractors in accordance with provisions of contract, or
orders, on routes stated herein by number in the State of
California, without any failures or delinquencies, so far as

shown by returns received, for the quarter ended September
30, 1878.
*
*
"' 46,118
*
*
e'J
L. FRENCH,
"'Acting Second Asszstant Postmaster General.
"'To the AuDirroR OF THE TREASURY
FOR THE POsT-OFFICE DEP.RTMENr.'

"On March 22, 1882, Second Assistant Postmaster General
addressed a letter to the postmaster at Natividad and received
information from hun on April 6, 1882, that the mail was not
carried from Gabilan by way of Katividad and Santa Rita,
and that such had been the practice since the present contractor had the contract. The postmaster at Santa Rita certified to the Postmaster General that such had been the practice
since he became postmaster. The date of the letters as to the
continuance of tb.e mode of carrying the mails was May 1,
1882.
" CONCLUSION OF LAW

"Upon the foregoing facts the court determines, as a conclusion of law, that the claimant is entitled to recover the
sum of $146.25."
Judgment was thereupon rendered in favor of the petitioner

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

for 8746.25, from which the defendant appealed to this court.
The opinion of the Court of Claims will be found in 22 C. 01.
152.
.Mr Attorney General and M1r -HeberI .May for appellants.
.M A. J

Willard and JMfr Samuel -.. Lake for appellee.

MR. CHIEF JusTioE FuuLEni
court.

delivered the opinion of the

The amount sued for was $782.17. of which the sum of
$35.92, the aggregate 'of some small deductions upon other
contracts, was disallowed by the Court of Claims, and that
result accepted by the claimant.
It appears from the third finding that the Postmaster
General .deducted from the claimant's compensation, under
contract No. 46,118, $746.25, "which deduction equals onequarter of the total compensation fixed by the contract for
whole service under it during the period covered by the alleged
delinquency," being the three years and three-quarters from
July 1, 1878, to March 31, 1882. It follows, then, that the
contractor performed the service for the months of April,
May and June, 1882, as requixed by the contract,, as hereafter considered. As to $398 of the $746.25, that sum was
withheld from the compensation under the contract in question, the last two quarters not having been paid, but the
balance of $348.25 was deducted from moneys coming to the
petitioner on other contracts, and he contends that it should
not have been so deducted, because that amount had been
voluntarily paid by the United States, and, therefore, could
not be recovered back. But if the contractor was not entitled
to $746.25 of the compensation provided by this contract, and
if payments were made thereon up to the last two quarters by
mistake, for service that had not been performed, or under
such circumstances as brought them within section 4057 of
the Revised Statutes, then the payments could be recovered
back, and their deduction in part from other money coming to

UNITED STATES v. CARRM
Opunon of the Court.

petitioner was proper in the settlement of the accounts between the parties.
Section 4057 is as follows
"In all cases where money has been paid out of the funds
of the Post-Office Department under the pretence that service
has been performed therefor, when, in fact, such service has
not been performed, or as additional allowance for increased
service actually rendered, when the additional allowance exceeds the sum which, according to law, might rightfully have
been allowed therefor, and in all other cases where money of
the Department has been paid to any person in consequence
of fraudulent representations, or by the mistake, collusion, or
misconduct of any officer or other employe in the postal service, the Postmaster General shall cause suit to be brought to
recover such wrong or fraudulent payment or excess, with interest thereon."
This section was applied in United States v. Barlow, ante,
271, 281, and Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the opinion,
quotes with approval the language of Baron Parke in lelly
v Solamri, 9 M,. & W 54-, 58, that "where money is paid to
another under the influence of a mistake, that is, upon the
supposition that a specific fact is true, which would entitle the
other to the money, but which fact is untrue, and the money
would not have been paid if it had been known to the payer
that the fact was untrue, an action will lie to recover it back,
and it is against conscience to retain it;" and adds "Reasons
for the application of the rule are much more potent in the
case of the contracts of the government than of contracts of
individuals, for the government must necessarily rely upon
the acts of agents, whose igDorance, carelessness or unfaithfulness would otherwise often bind it, to the serious injury of its
operations." Nothing more need be said on this point, and this
brings us to the real question in the case.
Claimant contracted to carry the mails "from Salinas, by
Santa Rita and Natividad, to Gabilan, 15 miles and back."
The time to be taken on the trip was specified at six hours
each way There is no ambiguity in this contract, from which,
a doubt could arise as to whether the return route was to be

OCTOBER TERM,- 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

identical with the outward route. Where places are designated as on the line of a mail route from one point to another
and back, no reason is perceived for their omission on the return. There may be instances where retracing the road is not
deemed important, or is impracticable in view of particular
exigencies, but if so, the difference m route would be specified.
And where the transportation is for a given number of miles
and back, this does not mean the number named one way and
an indefinite and less number the other.
The contractor was clearly required to return to Salinas from
Gabilan by the same way he went to Gabilan from Salinas.
The Court of Claims did not take any other view of the
language of the contract, .but determined the case to the contrary, upon the ground that the contract had been otherwise
"construed by the claimant, and the responsible power of the
defendants, and that construction became and was the contract
at the time the services were performed covered by the period
of deductions." This conclusion is reached as to the Post-Office
Department upon the reasoning that as "it was the duty of
the postmasters connected with the mail route at the termini
to report to the department the manner in which the service
was performed, and the presumption is, that they performed
their duty and that the department was advised, not only
during the time of the performance of the contract in controversy but the antecedent contracts, covering the same service
embraced in contract No. 46,118, "1 and as the evidence was,
"that on October 23, 1878, the Acting Second Assistant
Postmaster General certified to the Auditor of the Treasury
for the Post-Office Department that for the quarter ending
September 30, 1878, there had been no failure or delinquency
in the execution of the contract upon the part of the contractor, " and as "it is safe to assume that for all preceding
payments the same certificate was made, based upon reports furnished by the postmasters connected with route No. 46,118, "
the acts of "the responsible officers of the department being
in possession of the same information and knowledge" as the
postmasters, "commit the defendant to the construction of the
agreement as placed upon it by the parties who performed

UNITED STATES v. CARR.
Opinion of the Court.

the labor of its execution, and who were cognizant of the mode
in which it was performed."
The Department did not direct or affirmatively permit the
contractor to pursue the course he did, and if he could recover
in whole or in part, upon the ground of an acquiescence equivalent to assent m a certain mode of dealing with the subject
matter of the contract, the burden was on him to show
knowledge or information by the Department of his conduct
in the premises. INo evidence to establish such knowledge
or information having been adduced, the case was made to
rest upon the presumption that the postmasters at the termini,
where the schedules of the tune of the arrival and departure
of the mails were kept and registers thereof made and returned, were acquainted with the terms of the contract and
claimant's non-compliance therewith, and this being presumed,
upon the further presumption that they must have reported
the failure in performance to the Department.
In United States v Ross, 92 U S. 281, 284, Mr. Justice
Strong, speaking for the court, says
"The presumption that public officers have done their duty,
like the presumption of innocence, is undoubtedly a legal presumption, but it does not supply proof of a substantive fact.
Best, in his Treatise on Evid. sect. 300, says 'The true
principle intended to be asserted by the rule seems to be, that
there is a general disposition in courts of justice to uphold
judicial and other acts rather than to render them inoperative,
and with this view, where there is general evidence of acts
having been legally and regularly done, to dispense with
proof of circumstances, strictly speaking, essential to the
validity of those acts, and by which they were probably
accompanied m most instances, although in others the assumption may rest on grounds of public policy' Nowhere is
the presumption held to be a substitute for proof of an independent and material fact."
Section 3849 of the Revised Statutes provides that "every
postmaster shall promptly report to the Postmaster General
every delinquency, neglect, or malpractice of the contractors,
their agents or carriers, which comes to his knowledge."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

By none of the findings of fact is it shown that the delinquency in question ever came to the knowledge of the postmasters at the ternni of this mail route. But under Finding
VI it appears that "on March 22, 1882, Second Assistant
Postmaster General addressed a letter to the postmaster at
Natividad and received information from him on April 6,
1882, that the mail was not carried from Gabilan by way of
Katividad and Santa Rita, and that such had been the practice since the present contractor had the contract. The postmaster at Santa Rita certified to the Postmaster General that
such had been the practice since he became postmaster. The
date of the letters as to the continuance of the mode of carrylug the mails was May 1, 1882," and from Finding III, that
the PostmaSter General instantly repudiated that manner of
carrying the mails, and that they were not so carried for the
remaining quarter under the contract.
Of course the postuasters at Santa Rita and Natividad knew
that the mails did not come back through those places, but it
does not follow that they were aware that the contractor was
obliged so to carry them. Indeed, as they made no effort
to have this state of things remedied, so far as appears, it is,
rather to be presumed that they were not aware that it was
the result of the delinquency of the contractor.
The fact of knowledge on the part of the postmasters of
the delinquency, from which the inference is drawn that they
reported it, was a fact to be proven and not to be presumed.
If they knew of the delinquency it was undoubtedly their
duty to report it, but it is not to be assumed that they did
report it, without some evidence of such knowledge, and
upon this record the irresistible inference is that the delinquency, if reported, would not have been permitted to continue.
The certificate of the Second Assistant Postmaster General
is dated October 23, 1878, and states that the mails had been
carried "without any failures or delinquencies, so far as shown
by returns received, for the quarter ended September 30,
1878." As the contract was a plain one, and was not performed according to its terms, we think this certificate mdi-

