OCTOBER TERiM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

It does not appear that the whole evidence at the trial is
recited m the statement of the case, and if it had been, this
court, as already shown, could have considered it for the single
purpose of passing upon the exceptions taken to the adnnssion
or rejection of parts of it, and not for the purpose of deciding
whether the whole evidence supported the findings of the
court.
The result is that the appellant has not been prejudiced by
the rulings and decree below in any particular within the appellate jurisdiction of this court.
Ordered, that the recordmay be withdrawn and amended by
procurtng the sgnature of the clerk of the Supreme Court
of the Tewtory to the certifioate of authentication, and
that, upon the return of the record so amended, the decree
of that court be afirmed.

SINGER MANUFACTURI1NG COMPANY v. RAHN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINESOTA.

No. 122. Submitted November 20, 1889.- Decided December 23, 1889.
A person employed by a corporation under a written contract to sell sewingmachines, and to be paid for his services by commissions on sales and
collections; the company furnishing a wagon, and he furnishing a horse
and harness, to be used exclusively in canvassing for such sales and in
the general prosecution of the business; and he agreeing to give his
whole time and best energies to the business, and to employ hnself
under the direction of the company and under such rules and instructions
as it or its manager shall prescribe; is a servant of the company, and the
company is responsible to third persons injured by his negligence m the
course of his employment.

THE original action was brought by Katie Rahn, a citizen of
Minnesota, against the Singer M anufacturing Company, a corporation of New Jersey, for personal injuries done to the
plaintiff by carelessly driving a horse and wagon against her,
when crossing a street in Minneapolis. The complaint alleged

SINGER MANUFACTURING CO. v. RAHN.
Statement of the Case.

that the driver of the wagon was the defendant's servant and
engaged in its business. The answer demed this, and alleged
that the driver, one Corbett, was engaged in selling sewingmachines on commission, and not otherwise, for the defendant. The replication denied the allegations of the answer.
At the trial before a jury, after the plaintiff had introduced
evidence to maintain the issues on her part, the defendant put
in evidence the contract between itself and Corbett, headed
"Canvasser's Salary and Cominussion Contract," the material
provisions of which were as follows
"1st. The party of the first part agrees to pay unto the
party of the second part, for his services in selling and leasing
the Singer sewing-machines, five dollars for each and every
acceptable sale of a new machine sold by him, and in addition to said five dollars a further sum of ten per cent of the
gross price realized for said sales so made shall be paid to said
second party, which, in addition to the five dollars on each
acceptable sale, shall be deemed a selling commission.
"2d. The party of the first part shall pay unto the second
party, for his further services, a collecting commission of ten
per cent on the amounts or balances due from customers having purchased machines from him, payable as the cash shall
be collected and paid over to the said first party or its authorized representatives at Minneapolis, and the said per centum
so paid shall be in full for the services of said second party in
collecting or other service rendered to date thereof."
"'7th. The said first party agrees to furnish a wagon, and
any damage to said wagon through negligence shall be at the
cost and expense of said second party, and the said second
party agrees to furnish a horse and harness, to be used exclusively in canvassing for the sale of said machines and the general prosecution of said business, and said second party agrees
to give his exclusive time and best energies to said business,
and pay all expenses attending same.
"8th. The said second party agrees to employ himself under
the .direction of the said Singer Manufacturing Company, and
under such rules and instructions as it or its manager at
Minneapolis shall prescribe, and in all respects to comport

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

himself to the best interests of the business of the said first
party, and to neither sign nor to make use of the name of the
said company m any manner whereby the public or any mdividual may be led to believe that the said company is responsible for his actions, said party's power being simply to make
sales and turn over the proceeds to the said first party If any
special acts are required of said second party, the power to
perform the same will be specially delegated."
"10th. It is further agreed that if said second party sells
any other than the machines furnished to him by said first
party, it shall work a forfeiture of any commissions that accrue
under this agreement, if violated prior to the termination of
the same."
"12th. This agreement may be terminated by the first party
at any time, and by said second party by giving first party
ten days' notice in writing."
The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury "that
the contract under which Corbett, the driver of the horse causing the accident, was operating made him an independent contractor, and the defendant could not be liable for any damage
done through his negligence, if he was negligent." The court
declined to give the instruction requested, and instructed the
jury that the contract established the relation of servant and
master between Corbett and the defendant, and that the defendant was answerable for Corbett's negligence while engaged
in its service.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$10,000, upon which judgment was rendered, and the defendant tendered a bill of exceptions, and sued out this writ of
error.
Mr Grosvenor Lowrey and Mr JosephS Auerbach, for
plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.
The plaintiff m error never employed or contracted with
Corbett to drive a horse, his sole relation to the company was
that of an independent contractor to canvass for sales, furnishing his own means.
The seventh section of the contract binds the company to

SINGER MAINUFACTURING CO. v. RAHN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

furnish a wagon, and Corbett to furnish a horse and harness
to be used exclusively in canvassing for the sale of machines
and the general prosecution of that business. Corbett agreed
to give his best energies to the business, and to pay all expenses. Under these circumstances the loan of the wagon
takes classification m the law only as a bailment. Such bailments taken alone do not create a relation of master and servant between bailor and bailee. Quarman v Burnett, 6 M.
& W 499, Stevens v Armstrong, 2 Selden, 435, Rapson v.
Cubitt, 9 M. & W 710, Carterv Berlin .Mills, 58 N. HI. 52,
Sproul v llemmingway, 14 Pick. 1, S. C. 25 Am. Dec. 350,
Powles v Eider, 6 El. & ]l. 207, Yenables v. Smth,2 Q. 13.
D. 279, .Zingv Spurr, 8 Q. 13. D. 104, Schular v H'udson
River Railroad,38 Barb. 653.
The effect of stipulations similar to those contained in the
eighth section, subjecting a contractor to the direction, regulation and control of a co-contractor, has been often considered
by the courts. Such control as is here reserved is not regarded
as indicating the relation of master and servant, but, on the
contrary, as being entirely consistent with the relation of principal and agent, or of contractor and co-contractor. The general distinction appears to be that he is a master (and subject
to the doctrine of respondeatsupertwr) who retains - and he is
a servant (and capable to plead that maxim in defence) who
surrenders -the right to determine the means or manner of
accomplishing the object of the contract. He is a pnnczpal
and not a master who retains the right to direct what ends
shall be attempted, leaving the means to the management of
the agent. Blake v Ferrms, 1 Selden (5 lNT. Y ) 48, S. C. 55
Am. Dec. 304, Pack v New York, City, 4 Selden, 222, Kelly
v. .fayor of .New York, 1 Kernan, 432, Allan v TFillard,57
Penn. St. 374, Paznter v .Mayor of Pittsburgh, 46 Penn. St.
213, Reed v Allegheny City, 79 Penn. St. 300, Erie v Caulktns, 85 Penn. St. 24:7, Edmundson v. Pittsburgh.&e. Railroad,111 Penn. St. 316, Cuyv .ewark & New York Railroad,
6 Vroom (35 N. J Law) 17, Conners v Hennessey, 112 Mass.
96, Wood v. Cobb, 13 Allen, 58, Samuelson v Cleveland Iron
.Xinsng Co., 49 Michigan, 164, Reedie v. Zondon & North-

OCTOBER TERI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

western, Railway, 4 Exch. 243, Steele v Southeastern Railway,
16 0. B. 550, Jones v .Imerpool,14 Q. B. D. 890.
Mr IF P Clough, .Mr John W Willis and .MP 6harles A.
-Ebert,for defendant in error, submitted on their brief, citing
Pawlet v Rutland &c. Railroad, 28 Vermont, 297, .Michael
v Stanton, 3 Hun, 462, Dalyell v Tyrer, El. B1. & El. 899,
Blake v Ferms, 5 N. Y (1 Selden) 48, S. C. 55 Am. Dec. 304,
Regna v Turner,11 Cox Orim. Cas. 551, Fenton v Dublin
Steam Packet Co., 8 Ad. & El. 835, Burgess v Gray, 1 0. B.
578, Schwartz v Gilmore, 45 Illinois, 455, S. C. 92 Am. Dec.
227, Fink v .Missour, F rnace Co., 10 :Missouri App. 61,
S. C. 82 Missouri, 276, Speed v Atlantic & Pacqfc Railroad,
71 Missouri, 303, 1Tiflv Ford,126 Mass. 24, Carter v Berlin
Hills, 58 N. H. 52, Forsyth v Hooper, 11 Allen, 419; City of
St. Paul v. Seitz, 3 Minnesota, 297, S. C. 74 Am. Dec. 753,
MlGuire v Grant, 1 Dutcher (25 N. J Law) 356,
. C. 67
Am. Dec. 49, Quarman v. Burnett, 6 M. & W 499, Brackett
v Lubke, 4 Allen, 138, 5. C. 81 Am. Dec. 694, Campbell v
Lunsford, 88 Alabama, 512, Sadler v ienlock, 4 EL & 131.
570, Blake v. Tarst,2 H. & 0. 20, Railroad Co. v. Rannsng,
15 Wall. 649, Faren v Sellers, 39 La. Ann. 1011, Linnehan v
Rollins, 137 Mass. 123, Cincnnati v Stone, 5 Ohio St. 38,
Friev. Caulkzns, 85 Penn. St. 247, Edmundson v Psttsburgh
&~c.Railroad, 111 Penn. St. 316, Allen v Willard, 57 Penn.
St. 374, Pattenv Rea, 2 0. B. (N. S.) 606, lTenables v Smith,
2 Q. B. D 279, Joslin v Grand Rapds Ice Co., 50 Michigan,
516, -fHulvehill v Batef, 31 Minnesota, 364.
Mm. TuicE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The general rules that must govern this case are undisputed,
and the only controversy is as to their application to the contract between the defendant company and Corbett, the driver,
by whose negligence the plaintiff was injured.
A master is liable to third persons injured by negligent acts
done by his servant in the course of his employment, although
the master did not authorize or know of the servant's act or

SINGER MANUFACTURING CO. v. RAHN.
Opinion of the Court.

neglect, or'even if he disapproved or forbade it. P iladel -1
& Reading Railroad v _Derby, 14 How 468, 486. And the
relation of master and servant exists whenever the employer
retains the right to direct the nianner in which the business
shall be done, as well as the result to be accomplished, or, in
other words, "not only what shall be done, but how it shall
be done." Railroad CY. v. Hannsng, 15 Wall. 649, 656.
The contract between the defendant and Corbett, upon the
construction and effect of which this case turns, is entitled
"Canvasser's Salary and Commission Contract." The compensation to be paid by the company to Corbett, for selling its
machines, consisting of " a selling commission" on the price of
machines sold by him, and "a collecting commission" on the
sums collected of the purchasers, is uniformly and repeatedly
The company- may disspoken of as made for his "services."
charge hun by terminating the contract at any time, whereas he
can terminate it only upon ten days' notice. The company is
to furnish him with a wagon, and the horse and harness to be
furnished by him are "to be used exclusively in canvassing
for the sale of said machines and the general prosecution of
said business."
But what is more significant, Corbett "agrees to give his
exclusive time and best energies to said business," and is to
forfeit all his commissions under the contract, if while it is in
force he sells any machines other than those furnished to him
by the company, and he further "agrees to employ himself
under the direction of the said Singer Manufacturing Company,
and under such rules and instructions as it or its manager at
Minneapolis shall prescribe."
In short, Corbett, for the commissions to be paid him, agrees
to give his whole time and services to the business of the company; and the company reserves to itself the right of prescribing
and regulating not only what business he shall do, but the
manner in which he shall do it, and might, if it saw fit, instruct
him what route to take, or even at what speed to drive.
The provision of the contract, that Corbett shall not use the
name of the company in any manner whereby the public or
any individual may be led to believe that it is responsible for

