KLELN v. HOFFrHEIMER.
Citations for Defendants in Error.

KLEIN v. HOFFHEI [ER.
E RROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 112.

Argued November 14, 15, 1889.-

Decided December 9,1889.

A creditor of an insolvent debtor, having full knowledge of the insolvency,
secured for himself a transfer of a large part of the notes, book accounts
and debts of the insolvent. Other creditors by a proceeding which was
part of the same transaction secured their debts by attachments sufficient
to absorb all the property of the debtor. A creditor not included in the
arrangement sued the debtor and by garnishee process brought in the
creditor who had obtained the notes, etc. Held, (1), that the garnishee was
bound to establish, as against the pursuing creditor, that his claim against
the debtor was just, and that lie will receive from the assets no more than
is reasonably necessary to pay it; and, (2), if he is found liable at all as
garnishee, he is liable to account not only for the money collected on the
notes, accounts, etc., but also for the value of those which remain in his
hands, at least to a sufficient amount to satisfy the debt of the pursuing
creditor.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr .Marthn F forms, (with whom was -r Leo I -Lev
on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error, cited Greenleve v Blum,
59 Texas, 124, Ellis v Valentine, 65 Texas, 532, Lewy v
FYischl, 65 Texas, 311, Bunn v 4td, 29 Penn. St. 387, ]?sce
v. Perry, 61 Maine, 145, -lorwztz v Ellinger, 31 Maryland,
492, 504, Pr ce v Brady, 21 Texas, 614, Taylor v Gillean,
23 Texas, 50s, Tirrell v. Canada,25 Texas, 455, Ellison v.
Tuttle, 26 Texas, 283, Van ANess v l8yatt, 13 Pet. 294.
.7db George Hoadly, for defendants in error, cited Chandler
v. Ton Roeder, 24: How 224, Gregg v .Moss, 14 Wall. 564,
Cooper v Coates, 21 Wall. 105, Cannon v Pratt,99 U S. 619,
Mnlvng Co. v. Taylor, 100 U. S. 37, Loder v WT1elpley, 111
N. Y 239, Callanv. Stathamn, 23 How 477, Walcott v Almy,
6 McLean, 23, Hrublard v. Allen, 59 Alabama, 283, lamilton v. Blackwell, 60 Alabama, 545, Harrell v X1 itchell, 61
Alabama, 270, Buchananv Buchanan, 72 Alabama, 55, Zel-

OCTOBER TERiM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

wzoker v Brzgha, 74 Alabama, 598, Owens v ffo~bbe, 82
Alabama, 466, 0ppenheimer v Haly, 68 Texas, 409, Jones v
Si&pson, 116 U S. 609, ilamilton v Russell, I Cranch, 309,
313, Etting v United States Bank, 11 Wheat. 59, 74, 75, 1hett
v Poe,2 How 456, Privil. Lond. 197 (3d ed.) 255, 3fcDantel
v Hughes, 3 East, 367, TWalker v Gibbs, 2 Dall. 211, Staples
v Staples, 4 Greenl. 532, Glenn v Boston & Sandwch Glass
Co., 7 Maryland, 287, Tirrell v Canada, 25 Texas, 455, -llison v Tuttle, 26 Texas, 283.
M. JUSTICE

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to .the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Texas.
Hoffheimer Brothers brought suit in the District Court of
Dallas County, Texas, for a debt of $11,329.79, against Strauss
& Levy, of that place, a firm composed of A. Strauss and J
J Levy, in which suit they applied for and obtained a writ of
garnishment against Frieberg, Klein & Co., who were residents of the same county and doing business in Dallas. This
writ was served upon Frieberg, Klein & Co. through Joseph
Seinsheimer, a member of the firm, in the county of Galveston,
on the 15th day of August, 1885. The writ required the garnishees to answer upon oath "what, if any, they were indebted
to said Strauss & Levy, and were when this writ was served
upon them, and what, if any' effects of said Strauss they have
in their possession, and what when the writ was served." To
this they made the following answer on oath
"Now come Frieberg, Klein & Co., garnishees herein, and,
answering the writ of garnishment heretofore served upon
them, say that they are not now indebted to Strauss & Levy,
or either of them, and were not when this writ was served,
that they have no effects of Strauss & Levy, or either of them
in their possession, and had none when this writ was served,
that they know of no person indebted to Strauss & Levy, or
either of them, or who have in their possession effects belonging to Strauss & Levy, or either of them."
This answer was controverted by ]Toffheuner Brothers, who

EITEIN v. HOFFHEIAER.
Opinion of the Court.

took issue upon it by a plea which alleged that said garmshees
"combined, colluded, and confederated together with said
Strauss & Levy for the purpose and with the intent to hinder,
delay and defeat the creditors of said Strauss & Levy in the
collection of their debts, and that in furtherance of said combination, at said tune and with the intent aforesaid, said garmshees secretly and covinously procured and received from
said Strauss & Levy all the books, accounts, notes, choses in
action and other evidences of indebtedness then owing to said
Strauss & Levy by divers and sundry persons to these plaintiffs unknown, but amounting in the aggregate to about the
sum of thirty-two thousand dollars, and that said garnishees
thereafter immediately commenced to collect said claims, pretending to be owners thereof. These plaintiffs are not informed as to the amount of such claims which had been collected by said garnishees at the time said writs of garnishment
were ified herein, but they are informed and believe that at
the tune the writs of garnishment were served, as well as at
the time the said answers were filed, said garnishees had then
collected a very large amount upon said claims -it is believed
more than sufficient to pay off and discharge the claims of
these plaintiffs against said Strauss & Levy- and that the
said garnishees then had and still have the money so collected,
and that said garnishees then had in their possession said
claims not so collected by them."
The case was afterwards transferred to the Circuit Court of
the United States, and the plaintiffs having obtained judgment
against Strauss & Levy for the sum of $11,787.15, a trial was
had in that court before a jury on the issues made between
Hoffheimer Brothers and Frieberg, Klein & Co., garnishees.
In that trial the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs for the sum of $11,329.79, and the court rendered judgment
upon that verdict, and declared that when it should be paid
or collected it should constitute a credit for .that amount on
the judgment in favor of plaintiffs against Strauss & Levy
It is to reverse this judgment that the garnishees, Frieberg,
Klein & Co., have brought the present writ of error.
The errors assigned relate to the admission of evidence
VOL. cxxxn-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

against objections of plaintiffs in error, and to the charge of
the court to the jury, and to the refusal to charge as requested
by them. A bill of exceptions was taken which purports to
give the proceedings on the trial, and which, while it does not
expressly state that it includes all the testimony given in the
case, is probably a correct statement of all that was said and
done pertinent to the issues now presented.
It appears from this bill of exceptions that Strauss & Levy
were engaged in Dallas as wholesale dealers in liquors and
cigars on the 10th day of August, 1885, and were at that time
seriously embarrassed in their business, that Frieberg, Klein
& Co. were also wholesale dealers, in Galveston, Texas, with
a house in Dallas, that Strauss & Levy were indebted to
Frieberg, Klein & Co. by notes and accounts in the probable
sum of about $15,000, and that on the 10th day of August
aforesaid, just after dinner, Klein was in the office of Strauss
& Levy, when Mir. Bradford, a lawyer, came m. He had a
paper in his hand, and demanded payment of them of a claim
not then due. They said they would pay it when due, and
Bradford talked about suing them. Klein says he knew that
Bradford was the attorney for the Bradstreet Commercial
Agency, and he became alarmed, and demanded payment for
the debt due his firm. They told him they had no money,
but they had notes and accounts which they assigned to Frieberg, Klein & Co. m payment of their debt on his demand.
The notes and accounts were assigned to Frieberg, Klein &
Co. by a written instrument in which Strauss & Levy assigned
and transferred to Frieberg, Klein & Co. in full payment and
satisfaction of their indebtedness to that firm of the sum of
$15,789, "all of our accounts mentioned on a sheet attached
marked A, and the notes now held by Frieberg, Klein & Co.
as collateral security, besides the notes this day handed Mr.
Klein m person, which notes with aforementioned accounts,
amount m the aggregate to the estimated value of $15,000."
This instrument is dated the same day, August the 10th. Mr.
Klein states that late on the night of the 10th a Mr. Rhinehart
came to his house and showed him a telegram, and stated that
Strauss & Levy were outside and wanted to know what to do

KLEIN v. -OFFtEI-ER.
Opinion of the Court.

about their business matters. At their solicitation he went
with them to the residence of Mr. L. M. Crawford, a lawyer,
after one o'clock in the morning of the 11th. Mr. Crawford
said that his papers were ready, and he was going to attach.
It appears that during that night papers were prepared for
attachment in favor of several creditors living in the town of
Dallas. Among these attaching creditors were Marx & Kempner, Addie Lowenstein, Oliver & Griggs, and perhaps others.
The order in which these attachments should be levied or
issued so as to give priority among themselves was determined
during these interviews, in all of which Mr. Klein took an
active part, directing himself the displacement of this order of
priority in one case to the dissatisfaction of Strauss & Levy
when they found it out, who thus found some of their own
friends, whom they intended to make safe by these attachments, postponed to some others, and it is obvious from the
testimony, that Klein, and Strauss & Levy and Crawford,
the lawyer, and some of the other parties to those suits sat
down during that night and morning and arranged for the
issuing of attachments sufficient in amount to absorb all the
property owned by Strauss & Levy, and that Hoffheimer, and
perhaps many other creditors, were left without protection
and without any means of making their debts, so that between
the time when Bradford, the lawyer, made his demand that
evening, after dinner, and daylight next morning, all the assets
of the partnership of Strauss & Levy bad been divided between
the parties who :met that night, and that, not by any assignment, but by a contrivance by which Frieberg, Klein & Co.
got the choses in action, whether notes or accounts due to
Strauss & Levy, and the visible property was secured to the
other persons engaged in the transaction by attachments issued
with the consent and active assistance of Strauss & Levy, and
apportioned among these different parties in accordance with
an arrangement which met the assent of all of them. It will
be observed that in the reply of IHoffheimer & Co., by which
they took issue on the answers of the garnishees, they state
that prior to the service of the writ of garnishment said garnishees combined, colluded and confederated together with

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

said Strauss & Levy for the purpose and with the intent to
delay, defeat and hinder the creditors of said Strauss & Levy
in the collection of their debts, and the question which came
before the jury for trial turned upon the truth of this allegation. There is much other testimony in the bill of exceptions
showing the interference of Klein, and occasionally of one of
his partners, in the proceedings, by which this combination or
conspiracy was carried out. Whether it is sufficient to establish it or not, it was for the jury to say, if they were properly
instructed, and if no improper testimony was admitted. It is
obvious that there is sufficient testimony to justify a jury in
the inference that Mr. Klein was the presiding genius in the
appropriation and distribution of the assets of Strauss & Levy
Before we come to the matters on which the assignments of
error are made, it is proper to make one or two things a little
more clear than they seem at first sight. The transfer of the
notes and accounts of Strauss & Levy to Frieberg, Klein & Co.
was not an assignment to secure payment of the debt of the
former to the latter, but it purports upon its face to be, and
was treated by the parties throughout as, an absolute sale of
those notes and accounts in full satisfaction of the debt due
by the insolvent firm. The case is not to be treated, therefore, in its subsequent consideration, as one in which Frieberg,
Klein & Co. held these notes and accounts as security for their
debt, but as one in which they became the owners of them
absolutely, if the transaction was fair and honest.
Another point to be considered is, how far' this transfer or
assignment of the notes and accounts was a part of the transaction by which the whole property of the insolvent firm of
Strauss & Levy was appropriated during the twelve or fifteen
hours within which the matter was completed. It is earnestly
insisted by counsel for plaintiffs in error that the transaction
between Klein and Strauss & Levy in the afternoon of the
10th was totally distinct from those which took place that
night in regard to the attachments, and that therefore nothing
said or done by Strauss or Levy, or by any of the parties, or
their agents, whose attachments were levied after the execution
of the paper transferring the notes and accounts to Frieberg,

K1LEIN v. HOFFHEIAER.
Opinion of the Court.

Klein & Co., can be used as evidence against the validity of
the transfer. If the entire proceedings of that afternoon and
night are to be considered as one transaction, intended to distribute the assets of Strauss & Levy to certain creditors to the
exclusion of others, then whatever was said or done by any of
those parties in regard to that transaction is evidence against
all of them, and the acts of Mr. Klein in futherance of this
combination, though some of them may have occurred after
he had obtained the transfer of a part of the assets of Strauss
& Levy to himself and partners, must be considered as part
of the res gestce. We are of opinion that the short time consumed in the whole transaction, the active interference of Mr.
Klein in all its stages and in securing priority for certain
friends of his, and of Strauss & Levy in the attachments, and
the fact that the whole property of the insolvent debtors was
intended to go to certain individuals to the exclusion of others,
by consent of the parties engaged, constituted one transaction,
m which Mr. Klein's acts and doings were part of the res gestx,
and as such are admissible evidence.
With these principles in view we approach the assignments
of error, the first of which relates to the introduction of testimony objected to by defendants below The testimony of
John W Edmondson, who was in the employ of Marx &
Kempner, one of the firms whose attachments were included
in the proceedings we have mentioned, stated that the suit and
attachments of Marx & Kempner were filed by the authority
of Klein, and that Klein, Strauss and Levy, and Crawford, the
attorney, had told him so. iHe also said that in September,
1885, he had a conversation with Strauss and Levy, at which
Klein and Marx were present. In that conversation Strauss
and Levy said they had received from lHoffheimer Brothers on
the 10th of August, about nine or ten o'clock at night, a telegram which referred to their matters in such a way as to alarm
them. That they then went with the telegram to Klein, about
one o'clock that night, and with Klein to the house of Crawford,
the lawyer, and there conferred together. It was then agreed
"between all of them that confidential debts should be attached
for as follows Crawford & Crawford, Marx & Kempner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

Wertheim & Schiffer, Oliver & Griggs and Addie Lowenstein.
Crawford & Crawford were to come first and Marx & Kempner next, but Sam Klein had it fixed so that next day when
the attachments were levied that of Oliver & Griggs was levied
ahead of Marx & Kempner." "Some statements were made
by Levy that the attachment was agreed on, in which August
Cohn, brother-in-law of Levy, was endorser on one of the notes.
Levy said that he had taken legal advice, and would knock all
the attachments out of court and give away how the whole
thing was done, and let none of the confidential debts be paid
a dollar rather than Cohn should suffer."
There is much more of this, showing the secret arrangements
by which the property of the insolvents was to be disposed of
as the parties present had determined. Edmondson said that
Klein, who was present, concurred in all that Strauss and Levy
said. He further testified that Klein had said in that conversation that in consideration of the agreement of Marx &
Kempner to hold August Cohn harmless, they gave Marx &
Kempner a note of Cohn endorsed by Strauss & Levy and by
Frieberg, Klein & Co.
The objection to this testimony seems to be upon the ground
that Strauss and Levy, after they had parted with their interests in the property, could not, by their own confessions, or
statements of the nature of the transaction, defeat the title
they had transferred to Frieberg, Klein & Co. But it will be
remembered that this conversation was in the presence of
Klein, one of the defendants, and that the bill of exceptions
states that he concurred in all that was said. It was therefore
admissible against him and his partners as a statement which
he agreed to at the time of the conversation, and which he
should have contradicted if it were untrue.
With regard to the letter attached to Edmondson's deposition as an exhibit, from J J Levy to M. Marx, of the firm of
Marx & Kempner, it might possibly be admissible, though
written August 31st, twenty days after the attachment proceedings, as showing that Levy understood that in those proceedings his friend Cohn was to be taken care of. Otherwise
it is entirely immaterial, and could not have worked the defendants any harm.

KTEIN v. HOFFHEIMER.
Opmon of the Court.

After the testimony of Edmondson, the deposition of HI.
Kempner, of the firm of Marx & Kempner, was introduced.
He testified to a conversation with Mr. Klein in Galveston on
the Sunday morning after the attachment suits had lbeen instituted, in which he said "Now, Mr. Klein, being that you
were the leader and manager for the attachment suits, why is
it that you did not carry out the instructions of Strauss &
Levy, and put Marx & Kempner second in the order of attachment 2 " He replied that he felt in honor bound to put Oliver
& Griggs ahead of Marx & Kempner, because he had recommended them for accommodation. He said that he had done
all that he could for Marx & Kempner, that Strauss had insisted that Addie Lowenstein should be put in as a creditor in
attachment for three thousand, but he, Klein, had objected,
and it was compromised on the one thousand named in her
suit. She is the sister-in-law of Strauss.
As this testimony relates to what Klein himself, one of the
defendants, said, and as it tends to show his own recognition
of the fact that he had been a controlling spirit in the attachment proceedings, we do not see what objection can be urged
to it.
Objection is made to the testimony of Chapman Bradford,
offered in rebuttal, to the effect that he had seen in the store
of Pascal Tucker, in Brownwood, several barrels of whiskey
marked S. & L., Dallas. Thi testimony seems to have been
offered in rebuttal of the testimony of Klein, who had declared
that Tucker had been book-keeper for Strauss & Levy, and
had afterwards moved to Brownwood, and was keeping a
store there, that "1none of Strauss & Levy's goods were
shipped to Tucker, he received none of them. I shipped all
of them to Frieberg, Klein & Co., at Galveston." This was
his own firm. So far as the testimony of Bradford tended to
contradict this statement of Klein, no objection can be seen to
its admissibility, and if neither Klein's testimony nor Brown's
testimony is material to the issue, it seems to be so utterly useless that defendants could not be hurt by it.
Two principal objections are made to the charge of the
court. The first of these, and perhaps the more important, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

that the court placed the burden of proof upon the garnishees
to establish the fairness of the transaction by which they obtained possession of the notes and accounts of the insolvent
debtors. The argument is that the defendants, by virtue of
the statute, answered certain interrogatories which had been
propounded to them in the garnishee process, that that answer is to be taken as evidence in their favor; and that, as
they positively denied having any property or credits of the
insolvent debtors in their hands, or being in any way indebted
to them, this answer should stand as a _prz'ma facze case in
their favor to be overcome by proof on the part of the plaintiffs. It is also true that in the traverse of this answer made
by plaintiffs they set out the affirmative allegation that 1 prior
to the service of the writ of attachment and writ of garnishment the garnishees combined, colluded and confederated together with said Strauss & Levy for the purpose and with the
intent to hinder, delay and defeat the creditors of said Strauss
& Levy in the collection of their debts, and that in furtherance
of said combination, at said time and with the intent aforesaid,
said garnishees secretly and covinously procured and received
from said Strauss & Levy all the books, accounts, notes, choses
in action, and other evidences of indebtedness then owing to
said Strauss & Levy by divers and sundry persois to these
plaintiffs unknown, but amounting in the aggregate to about
the sum of thirty-two thousand dollars, and that said garnishees thereafter immediately commenced to collect said
claims, pretending to be owners thereof." If this allegation is
not true in substance, the plaintiffs had no case against Frieberg, Klein & Co., and the burden of the issue was, therefore,
primarily upon them. But Klein and another member of that
partnership were sworn as witnesses, and what they said as
witnesses, being minutely descriptive of what was done, is
mush more important in ascertaining the truth than their
general denial that they held the property of the insolvent
debtors or owed them anything. In the testimony of Klein
himself it was made very clear that he was aware, at the time
of the transaction by which he obtained their choses in action,
that Strauss & Levy were insolvent, or at least were in failing

KIEIN v. HOFFHEIETMR.
Opimon of the Court.

circumstances and unable to pay their debts, and that he received from them all or nearly all of the notes and accounts

due them, and professed to take them in payment of the debt
of his firm. It was not unreasonable, therefore, that the
court should charge that, under these circumstances, Klein and
his partners should establish the fairness of the proceeding by
which they came into the possession of these notes and
accounts.
The substance of the charge of the court, of which complaint is made, is, that "if the jury believe from proof in the
case that plaintiffs had a valid, existing, unsatisfied claim
against Strauss & Levy for something over eleven thousand
dollars, and that Strauss & Levy were insolvent on the 10th
day of August, 1885, and that Klein knew, or might have
known, that fact, and that under the circumstances he on behalf of garnishees took the bills receivable, and that garnishees
had received and collected the sum of nearly ten thousand
dollars, and have still uncollected bills of value, you will find
the garnishees liable, unless you believe also from the proof
that the garnishees were, in fact and m good faith, creditors
of Strauss & Levy in the full sum claimed by said garnishees,
and that the dealings of Klein on behalf of the garnishees,
with Strauss & Levy, on the 10th day of August, were, in fact,
fair and honest and had with a single purpose of obtaining
satisfaction of their debt, and that he received no more therefor than was reasonably worth the amount of said garnishees'
said debt." We think that this was a fair statement of the
law on the subject. The whole case was before the jury The
insolvency of Strauss & Levy was known, or might have been
known to Klein, and, therefore, when he undertook to deal
with the assets of this insolvent firm by taking a very large
part of it in payment of his own debt, a circumstance which
he knew must leave many other creditors either wholly or
partly unprotected and without means for payment, it was
proper that all his dealings in that matter should be fair and
honest, that Ins claim should be a just one, that he should
receive no more than what was reasonably necessary to pay
his debt, and that if the transaction was tainted with any

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

fraud or unjust interference with the rights of creditors it
should not stand. In other words, the preliminary statement
of those facts made a case which required of the garnishees a
fair and satisfactory explanation of the remarkable proceedings
of Air. Klein and his partners in the whole transaction.
The language we have cited also shows that there is no
ground for the argument of counsel that the jury were instructed that if the garnishees received anything more, even a
dollar, than was due to them of the assets of the insolvent
debtors, the transaction was therefore void. Fair play and
honest dealing did require that while they had the right, as is
admitted by the court, to secure their debt or to take payment
for it provided it was done fairly and honestly, and that
Strauss & Levy had a right to pay them out of their assets in
preference to other creditors, yet it was right and proper that
they should take no more of these assets in which other creditors were interested than was, in the language of the court,
"reasonably worth the amount of the garnishees' debt." Of
course this reasonable amount did not mean that it should be
measured to a dollar or to a cent. It did not mean if what
they took turned out to be worth a little more than their debt,
if the notes and accounts yielded a little more than the debt
in the end, that thereby the whole transaction was to be void,
but it meant, and that we think was sound law, that in presence of the circumstances under which the transfer was made,
if defendants took more than 'what appeared to be reasonably
worth the amount of their debt, it was a fraud upon the other
creditors, and the court, in giving the converse of this proposition, said that if the garnishees on that day received no
more from the insolvent debtors than was reasonably sufficient to satisfy their claim, the jury were to find for the
garnishees.
The court also instructed the jury that if they found for the
plaintiffs, they were to return a verdict for the amount of money
shown by proof to have been received by the garnishees and
the value of the uncollected bills, if the sum of these did not
exceed plaintiffs' debt. It is said that the garnishees could
only be liable for the sum which they had actually collected

