OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error,

of the bankrupt or of his admimstrator, the assignee did not
show such diligence as entitles him to exemption from the limitation of two years prescribed by the statute. The court
below would not have erred if it had given a peremptory instruction to find for the defendant upon the issue as to limitation.
The case presents another question raised by the defendant's
requests for instructions, namely, whether, in view of the peculiar nature of contracts of life insurance, any interest which
the bankrupt had in these policies - assuming that he had not,
at the time of his bankruptcy, effectively transferred them for
the benefit of his daughters -passed to his assignee. The defendant contended in the court below, and contends here, for
the negative of this proposition, and insists that if any interest
passed to the assignee, it was only such as was represented by
the cash value of the policies at the time of the bankruptcy
We do not find it necessary to consider these questions, as
what has been said will probably result in a disposition of the
whole case under the issue as to the statute of limitations.
The yudgment ts reversed,and the cause remandedwith directwns to grant a ew tnal, and for further proceedings
conststent with this opznton.

CLEARY v. ELLIS FOUNDRY COMPANVY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF M.ASSACHUSETTS.
No.

0o. Argued December 13,1859.-

Decided January 6, 1890.

Avery v. Cleary, ante, 604, affirmed; but as, the defendant did not prosecute a.
writ of error, the judgment below is affirmed on the ground that no error
was committed to the plaintiff's prejudice.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Up Eugene X. Johnson (with whom was XrMNathan 3 orse
on the brief),for plaintiff m error.

CLEARY v. ELLIS FOUNDRY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Mrb Joskua 1D Ball for defendant in error.
Mm. JusTIC

UARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The statement of facts made in Avery v Cleary, just decided, is, in the main, applicable to the present case. The
additional facts necessary to be stated are these.
On the 21st of May, 1879, Ellis made a written assignment
to the Ellis Foundry Company, a Massachusetts corporation,
of policy 68,429, and all his rights under it, with all moneys
payable or which might be payable thereon. That corporation, at the same time, gave a writing to Ellis showing that it
received the above policy as collateral security for the payment of a debt due to it from Ellis of $5540.14 within one year
from March 1, 1879, with interest, and of all other sums of
money that he might owe that company within four years
thereafter. Out of the proceeds of this policy collected by
Avery as adnunistrator of Ellis, the Foundry Company received, December 31, 1879, the sum of $5901.64, the amount
which Ellis, at his death, owed that corporation.
The present action was brought September 30, 1882, to
recover from the company the entire amount received by it on
policy 68,429. It proceeds upon the same grounds substantially as those set forth in the other suit. The defendant
denied that it had collected such proceeds, and, besides controverting the material allegations of the declaration, pleaded
in bar of the action the statute of limitations of two years.
At the close of the evidence it claimed the right to go to
the jury, and presented certain prayers for instructions which
the court declined to give. This claim was denied, and the
court ruled, as matter of law, that upon the evidence the
plaintiff was entitled to recover from the defendant only
the amount the insurance company would have paid the
assignee in bankruptcy as the cash surrender value of the
policy at the date of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
namely, July 3, 1878. It being agreed that such value was
$1200, the jury were instructed to return a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff for that amount, with interest from December

