REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Statement of the Case.

In addition to this, Vane gave up any right he had to a
common law lien as to the wires, by giving up possession of
them on November 19, 1884. The lien referred to in the paper
of that date, signed by the receivers, as a lien claimed by Vane,
was the statutory lien which he had attempted to secure by
his notice dated September 15, 1884. Nor do we see any
ground for saying that he had or retained an equitable lien.
It is also claimed that the instrument of November 19, 1884,
fixed a lien upon the property We do not so understand it.
It conferred no new right upon Vane. It only refers to such
lien, if any, as existed,- to a lien claimed by him. Where it
speaks of "the lien of the said Vane," it refers to what it had
before spoken of as the lien claimed by him. The purport of
the paper is sunply that the use of the wires by the receivers
shall not be construed as impairing or interfering with the
lien claimed by Vane, that is, with any lien which existed
under the statute under which he had given and filed his
notices, dated September 15, 1884.

.Decree ffirrned.

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 27. Submitted November 5, 1889.-Decided November 18, 1889.

In the courts of the United States an action of ejectment is an action at
law, and the plaintiff must recover on the legal title.
While the title to public land is still in the United States, no adverse possession of it can, under a state statute of limitations, confer a title which
will prevail in an action of ejectment in the courts of the United States,
against the legal title under a patent from the United States.
A deed of land sold for non-payment of taxes, which recites that the sale
was made on a day which was not the day authorized by law, is void on
its face, and is not admissible in evidence to support an adverse possession under a statute of limitations.

Tins cause was submitted April 15, 1889, at the last term,
the briefs of counsel for both parties having been filed in
due course with the clerk of this court. The court there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Defendants in Error.

upon refused to consider the case on its merits for the reason
that the record did not contain copies of the pleadings, and
leave was granted to the plaintiff in error to sue out a writ of
certiorari to bring into this court the papers omitted from the
transcript. ]Redfleld v Parks, 130 U. S. 623. Such certiorari
was then sued out, and return thereto duly made. The case
made by the original record and the papers brought up on
return to the certiorari is stated in the opimon of the court.
On the 15th of October of the present term the counsel for
the plaintiff in error moved for leave to file an additional brief,
and for leave to have an oral argument when the cause should
be reached on the docket. The court on October 16th granted
the counsel on both sides leave to file additional briefs, but
denied .the motion as to oral arguments.
.Afr John F Dillon thereupon, on the 16th of October, filed
an additional brief on behalf of the plaintiff in error, citing
Sutton v Stone, 4 Nebraska, 319, Trustees of Kentucky Semnary v Payne, 3 T. B. Mon. 161, Toll v Wr'ght, 37 Michigan,
93, 100, Moore v Brown, 11 How 414, TWalker v Turner, 9
Wheat. 541, Waterson v Devoe, 18 Kansas, 223, iSyles v.
_Eing, 2 A. K. Marsh. (Ky) 385, Cutler v Hurlbut, 29 Wisconsin, 152, .lason v Crowder, 85 Missouri, 526, Sheehy v
Hinds, 27 Minnesota, 259, Gomer v Cha]fee, 6 Colorado, 314,
Tofford v 3lcKinna, 23 Texas, 36, S. C. 76 Am. Dec. 53,
LIndsey v Miller, 6 Pet. 666, Bagnell v Broderwck, 13 Pet.
436, Gibson v Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, Wilcox v Jackson, 13
Pet. 498, Oaksrmth v Johnston, 92 T. S. 343, Thompson v
Prnce,67 fllinois, 281, Trood v Ferguson'sLessee, 7 Ohio St.
288, Clark v Southard, 16 Ohio St. 408, Miller v Dunn, 62
Missouri, 216, Dunn v Miller, 75 Missouri, 260, 272, Clines
Eei~rs v Catron, 22 Gratt. 378, 392, Iverson v Dubose, 27
Alabama, 418, Chiles v Calk, 4 Bibb (Ky.) 554, Clements v
Anderson, 46 Mississippi, 581, Gardiner v Mfiller, 47 California, 570, De .Mirandav Toomey, 51 California, 165.
Mr A. IT Garland, Xr A. G Safford and 3hr D W
Jones on the 4th November, 1889, on behalf of the defend-

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opimon of the Court.

ants in error, filed an additional brief, in reply to J-Mr
Dillons additional brief, reviewing the cases cited in it,
and further citing Danel v Lefevre, 19 Arkansas, 201,
Flernmng v Johnson, 26 Arkansas, 421, Peremfull v. Platt, 36
Arkansas, 456, .MoCool v &Smth, 1 Black, 459, litchfleld v
.Rail'roadCo., 7 Wall. 270, Sicard v Dams, 6 Pet. 124, Tilkes
v. Elliot, 5 Cranch C. Ct. 611, Lagow v Beilson, 10 Indiana,
183, Cutter v Hurlbut, 29 Wisconsin, 152, Lindsay v Fay,
25 Wisconsin, 460, .ason v Crowder, 85 Missouri, 526, _Pillow v Roberts, 13 How 472.

MiR. JusTIE MLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas. The action in
that court was in the nature of ejectment to recover possession
of real estate, brought by Jared E. Redfield, the present plaintiff m error, against William 1 Parks, Charles :arper and
others. The case was submitted to the court without a jury,
which made a finding of facts on which was rendered a judgment for the defendants.
The principal issue in the case before that court was on the
defence under the statute of limitations. The plaintiff relied
upon, and introduced m evidence, a patent from the United
States, dated April 15, 1875, conveying the property to the
Mississippi, Ouachita and Red River Railroad Company, reciting the purchase by that company of the land in controversy
and the payment of $594.48 for it.
The plaintiff Redfield purchased this land at a judicial sale,
on a judgment against that company, for the sum of five hundred dollars, and receiveda deed under that purchase. It further appears from the findings of the court that the railroad
company made payment in full for the land September 10,
1856, and received at that time the certificate of the register
of the land office. The approval of this entry for the issue of
a patent was made at the General Land Office in Washington,
June 1, 1874. The circumstances under which the delay in
the issue of a patent was had are not stated.
VOL. XX0--16

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants relied upon a deed made by the county clerk
of Lafayette County, Arkansas, to W P Parks and James M.
Montgomery, on the 11th day of August, 1871, upon a sale for
taxes for the year 1868, and upon adverse possession under the
statute of Arkansas of two years in regard to claims under tax
sales, and the general statute of limitation of seven years.
This action was commenced by the plaintiff on the 11th day
of April, 1882. The court announced the following conclusions
of law
"1st.That said tax deed to Parks and Montgomery for said
land is void, because the land was sold for the taxes of 1868
on a day not authorized by law
"2d. That under the laws of this State, notwithstanding
said tax deed is void upon its face, for the reason stated, it
constitutes a claim and color of title sufficient to put in motion
the statute of limitations in favor of any person in possession
under it.
"3d. That the possession taken by Parks and Montgomery
of said land under said tax deed, in the manner set out in the
finding of facts, constitutes m law actual, peaceable, open,
notorious and adverse possession of the whole of said land,
and said possession of said land having been taken by Parks
and Montgomery as early as the month of February, 1874,
and maintained continuously by them and their grantees down
to the trial of this cause, the plaintiff's right of action to recover
said land is barred by the two years' statute of limitation contained in section 4475 of Mansfield's Digest, and also by the
seven years' statute of limitation contained in section 4471 of
the samhe digest."
Among the requests asked by the plaintiff and refused by
the court were the following declarations of law
"6th. The plaintiff's title to the lands in this case, and that
of those under whom he claims, dates from the issuance of the
patent of the United States to the Mississippi, Ouachita and
Red River Railroad Company, on the 15th day of April, 1875,
and the statute did not commence runmng in behalf of the
defendants, or any of them, until such patent was issued.
"8th. That no adverse possession of land can be acquired

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opinon of the Court.

while the title is still in the United States government, and
that the patent issued on the 15th day of April, 1875, did not
relate back, so as to make the possession of the defendants
adverse prior to the date of the patent.
"9th. That neither the plaintiff, nor the railroad company
under which he claims, could have maintained a suit of ejectment in the courts of the United States for the possession of
the land described in his complaint on an equitable title, nor
until the legal title had passed out of the government on the
15th April, 1875, and this action did not accrue to them until
the date of the patent.
"10th. That this suit, having been commenced on the 11th
day of April, 1882, within seven years from the date of the
patent, the plaintiff's cause of action was not barred by the
statute of limitations.
"11th. That the deed of V V Smith, clerk, not being a
sheriff's deed or an auditor's deed, or a deed commonly called
a donation deed, is not within the terms of the two years'
statute pleaded by defendants, (ยง 4117, Gantt's Digest,) and
this action is not barred by that statute."
These rulings upon the law of the case by the court present
two distinct propositions, on which error is assigned here. One
of these is that which holds the seven-year statute of limitations, which is the general period of limitation, prescribed
for the benefit of adverse possession, to be a good defence in
this case. The other is the same holding in regard to the two
years' limitation law
It is apparent from the finding of the facts that the action,
which was commenced on the 11th day of April, 182, was
within the seven years allowed by the statute from the time that
the cause of action accrued, if that is to be computed from the
15th day of April, 1875, the date of the patent introduced by
plaintiff. That such is the law in regard to the action of ejectment in the courts of tue United States has been repeatedly
decided. The foundation of this rule is the proposition that
time does not run against the government, that no statute of
limitation affects the rights of the government, unless there is
an express provision to that effect in the statute, and even

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmon of the Court.

then it cannot be conceded that state legislation can in this
manner imperil the rights of the United States or overcome
the general principle that it is not amenable to the statute of
limitations or the doctrine of laches. The facts found in the
present case leave it beyond question that the legal title to
the property in controversy was in the United States until
the issuing of the patent to the railroad company
In the courts of the United States, where the distinction
between actions at law and suits in equity has always been
maintained, the action of ejectment is an action at law, and
the plaintiff must recover on the legal title. If it be shown
that the plaintiff has not the legal title, that the legal title at
the time of the commencement of the action or at its trial is
in some other party, the plaintiff cannot recover. The facts
in the present case show that this title to the land in con"troversy was in the United States until the 15th day of April,
1875. Up to that time the statute of limitations could not
begin to run in bar of any action dependent on this title. The
plaintiff could not sue or-recover in the courts of the United
States upon the equitable title evinced by his certificate of
purchase made by the register of the land office. His title,
therefore, being derived from the United States, the right of
action at law to oust the defendant did not commence until
the making of that patent.
In the case of -Lindsey v iiller's Lessee, 6 Pet. 666, the
defendants relied upon a patent issued by the Commonwealth
of *Virginia, dated March, 1789, under the survey and entry
made in January, 1783, and duly recorded in that year. They
then proved possession for upwards of thirty years. The
plaintiff introduced a patent from the United States, in which
was the legal title, dated December 1, 1824, thirty-five years
after the patent issued by the Commonwealth of Virginia.
The action was brought in 1832.
This court, in regard to the issue thus made, expressed itself
in the following terms (p. 673)
"That the possession of the defendants does not bar the
plaintiff's action, is a point too clear to admit of much controversy It is a well-settled principle that the statute of

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opimon of the Court.

limitations does not run against a State. If a contrary rule
were sanctioned, it would only be necessary for intruders
upon the public lands to maintain their possessions, until the
statute of limitations shall run, and then they would become

invested with the title against the government, and all persons
claiming under it.

In this way the public domain would soon

be appropriated by adventurers.

Indeed, it would be utterly

impracticable, by the use of any power within the reach of the

government, to prevent this result.

It is only necessary,

therefore, to state the case in order to show the wisdom and

propriety of the rule that the statute never operates against the
government. The title under which the plaintiff in the ejectment claimed emanated from the government in 1824. Until
this time there was no title adverse to the claim of the defend-

ants, there can, therefore, be no bar to the plaintiff's action."
The case of Bagnell v Broderzck, 13 Pet. 436, which has
been a leading case in this court for many years, was an action
of ejectment in which a patent from the United States to John
Robertson, Jr., was relied on by the plaintiff as being the
origin of his title. The defendants relied upon certain proceedings in the United States land office in Missouri by which
the property was deemed to have been appropriated under the
act of Congress concerning New Madrid lands which had been
lost by the earthquake, and had been certified to Robertson,
and a deed from Robertson to the parties under whom defendants claimed. But this court held that the patent of the
United States, issued long afterwards to Robertson, was the
strictly legal title on which plaintiff was bound to recover,
and in making the decision the following language is used
"But suppose the plat and certificate of location had been
made and returned to the recorder in the name of Morgan
Byrne, and that it had been set up as the better title in
opposition to the patent adduced on behalf of the plaintiff in
ejectment, still, we are of opinion the patent would have been
the better legal title. We are bound to presume, for the purposes of this action, that all previous steps had been taken by
John Robertson, Jr., to entitle himself to the patent, and that
he had the superior right to obtain it, notwithstanding the

OCTOBER TER-,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

claim set up by Byrne, and having obtained the patent, Robertson had the best title (to wit, the fee) known to a court of
law Congress has the sole power to declare the dignity and
effect of titles emanating from the United States, and the whole
legislation of the Federal government, in reference to the
public lands, declares the patent the superior and conclusive
evidence of legal title, until its issuance, the fee is in the government, which, by the patent, passes to the grantee, and he is
entitled to recover the possession in ejectment."
Perhaps the case which presents the whole of this question
in the strongest light is that of Gibson v Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92.
That was a writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court
of M issouri, and that court had held that, under the statutes of
that State'by which an action of ejectment could be sustained
upon an equitable right only, the bar of the statute of limitations began to run when the right of action under such equitable
title accrued. The case was several times before the Supreme
Court of that State, which finally decided in favor of the defendants on the plea of the statute of limitations, although the
patent under which plaintiff claimed to recover had been issued
within the ten years which that statute allowed. In delivering
its opinion that court used the following language
"But there is another principle upon which we think the
statute may be made to operate here as a bar to the plaintiff's
action, and that is the fiction of relation whereby the legal
title is to be considered as passihg out of the United States
through the patent at its date, but as instantly dropping back
in time to the date of the location as the first act of inception
of the conveyance, to vest the title in the owner of the equity
as of that date, and make it pass from him to the patentee
named through all the intermediate conveyances, and so that
the two rights of entry and the two causes of action are thus
by relation merged in one, and the statute may be held to
have operated on both at once. The legal title, on making
this circuit, necessarily runs around the period of the statute
bar, and the action founded on this new right is met by the
statute on its way and cut off with that which existed before."
39 Missouri, 588.

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opmon of the Court.

This is precisely the principle asserted in the case before us.
The Mississippi, Ouachita and Red River Railroad Company,
under whose patent the plaintiff claims, had made the entry
and received the certificate of that entry and of the payment
of the money for this land, September 10, 1856. The patent
on this certificate was not issued until April 15, 1875, which
was nineteen years after the entire equitable interest in the
land in controversy had been vested in the railroad company
by virtue of the payment of the money and the register's
certificate. As the title of Redfield had its inception m this
proceeding, it is now argued, and the Circuit Court must have
so decided, that the statute of limitations, instead of leaving it
to commence with the issue of the patent, did run through the
whole course of the possession of the defendant after the date
of the issue of the register's certificate in 1856. Whether the
statutes of Arkansas would have authorized an action to
recover the possession by virtue of the register's certificate or
not, it is precisely the same principle as that asserted by the
Supreme Court of Missouri in the case of Gibson v Ckouteau.
The opinion of this court, delivered by Mr. Justice Field in that
case, states with great clearness the principle that a statute of
limitation does not run against the State unless itis so expressly
declared, and adds that "As legislation of a State can only
apply to persons and things over which the State has jurisdiction, the United States are also necessarily excluded from the
operation of such statutes." 'With regard to the relation back
to the inception of the title the court says (p. 100). "The
consummation of the title is not a matter which the grantees
can control, but one which rests entirely with the government.
With the legal title, when transferred, goes the right to possess
and enjoy the land, and it would amount to a denial of the
power of disposal of Congress if these benefits, which should
follow upon the acquisition of that title, could be forfeited
because they were not asserted before that title was issued."
In regard to the principle asserted by the Supreme Court
of Missouri, the opinion says (p. 101) "The error of the
learned court consisted in overlooking the fact that the doctrine of relation is a fiction of law adopted by the courts solely

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purposes of justice, and is only applied for the security
and protection of persons who stand in some privity with the
party that initiated proceedings for the land, and acquired
the equitable claim or right to the title. The defendants in
this case were strangers to that party and to his equitable
claim, or equitable title, as it is termed, not connecting themselves with it by any valid transfer from the original or any
subsequent holder. The statute of limitations of Missouri did
not operate to convey that claim or equitable title to them.
It only extinguished the right to maintain the action of ejectment founded thereon, under the practice of the State. It
left the right of entry upon the legal title subsequently acquired
by the patent wholly unaffected.
"In thd Federal courts, where the distinction between legal
and equitable proceedings is strictly maintained, and remedies
afforded by law and equity are separately pursued, the action
of ejectment can only be sustained upon the possession by the
plaintiff of the legal title. For the enforcement of equitable
rights, however clear, distinct equitable proceedings must be
instituted. The patent is the instrument which, under the laws
of Congress, passes the title of the United States. It is the
government conveyance. If other parties possess equities
superior to those of the pzttentee, upon which the patent
issued, a court of equity will, upon proper proceedings, enforce
such equities by compelling a transfer of the legal title, or
enjoining its enforcement, or cancelling the patent. But, in
the action of ejectment in the Federal courts, the legal title
must prevail, and the patent, when regular on its face, is conclusive evidence of that title.
" But neither in a separate suit in a Federal court, nor in an
answer to an action of ejectment in a state court, can the mere
occupation of the demanded premises by plaintiffs or defendants, for the period prescribed by the statute of limitations of
the State, be held to constitute a sufficient equity in their favor
to control the legal title subsequently conveyed to others by
the patent of the United States, without trenching upon the
power of Congress in the disposition of the public lands. That
power cannot be defeated or obstructed by any occupation of

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opunon of the Court.

the premises before the issue of the patent, under state legislation, m whatever form or tribunal such occupation be
asserted." 13 Wall. 101, 104.
These principles are illustrated by other cases in this court,
such as Rector v AshZey, 6 Wall. 142, United States v Thorn
2 son, 98 U. S. 486.
The question of the two years' statute of limitation of
Arkansas presents other considerations. That statute is in the
following language
"No action for the recovery of any lands, or for the possession thereof, against any person or persons, their heirs or
assigns, who may hold such lands by virtue of a purchase
thereof, at a sale by the collector, or commissioner of state
lands, for the non-payment of taxes, or who may have purchased the same from the State by virtue of any act providing
for the sale of lands forfeited to the State for the non-payment
of taxes, or who may hold such lands under a donation deed
from the State, shall be maintained, unless it shall appear that
the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor was seized or
possessed of the lands in question within two years next before
the commencement of such suit or action."
There can be no question but that more than two years had
elapsed after the issue of the patent of the United States,
under which plaintiff asserts title, and after his cause of action
had accrued during which the defendants were in possession
of a part, if not the whole, of the land in controversy Therefore, if the circumstances of that possession are such as to bring
it within the purview of this statute, the possession was a bar to
recovery On this subject the court declared as conclusions of
law 1st. That the tax deed, under which defendants claimed,
is void, because the land was sold for taxes of 1868 on a day
not authorized by law, 2d. That under the laws of this State,
notwithstanding the said tax deed is void upon its face, for the
reason stated, it constitutes a claim and color of title sufficient
to put in motion the statute of limitations in favor of any person in possession under it, 3d. That the possession taken by
Parks and Montgomery of said land under said tax deed, in
the manner set out in the finding of facts, constitutes m law

OCTOBER TERMI,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

actual, peaceable, open, notorious and adverse possession of
the whole of said land, and said possession of said land having been taken by Parks and Montgomery, as early as the
month of February, 1874, and maintained continuously by
them and their grantees down to the trial of this cause, the
plaintiff's right of action to recover said land is barred by the
two years' statute of limitation contained in section 4475 of
Mansfield's Digest, and also by the seven years' statute of limitation, contained in section 4471 of the same digest.
We think it very clear that the judge was correct in holding
this tax deed to be void. It was not merely void by extrinsic
facts shown to defeat it, but was absolutely void on its face.
But we think that the court erred in holding that such an instrument could create color of title which would bring the case
within the foregoing statute of limitations.
The case of 3foore v Bpown, 11 How 414, brought the
question before this court. The court says, p. 425
"It is disclosed upon the face of the deed that the auditor
sold the land short of the time prescribed by the act. It was
not, then, a sale according to law That must have been as
well known by the purchaser as it was by the auditor."
After a somewhat elaborate opinion it was certified to the
Circuit Court, from which the case had come by division of
opinion, "that the paper offered in evidence by the defendant
is a void deed upon the face of it, and was not admissible
as evidence for the purpose for which it was offered,"which was to support the possession under the statute of
limitations.
A similar decision was made in the case of Wralker v Tuner, 9 Wheat. 541.
Many of the States of the Union have enacted what are
called short statutes of limitation, the object of which is to
protect rights acquired under sales of real estate for taxes.
The general purpose of these statutes is to fix a period of time
running in favor of the holder under such tax titles, after
which the validity of that title shall not be questioned for
any irregularity in the proceedings under which the land was
sold. This object was generally attained by the enactment of

REDFIELD v. PARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

short statutes of limitations; by means of which the party in
possession under such defective titles can, by pleading this
statute, make his title good.
The brief of counsel in this case produces many instances of
cases decided in the courts under statutes of this class, and
the general principles pervading them is well expressed by the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky in the case of TPustees of -Yentucky Sera~nary v Payne, 3 T. 3. Mon. 161, 164, in which the
court says
"Instead of twenty years mentioned in the general act,
but seven years are required by this act of 1809, but, to form
a bar to an action, something more is required by the latter
act than an adverse possession for seven years."
In Watersom v .Devoe, 18 Kansas, 223, 232, the court held
that the tax deed, which upon its face showed that it was
void, did not support the possession as a bar under the short
statute of limitations in that State which applied to actions
for the recovery of lands sold for taxes. The court, in that
case, said, quoting from the previous case of Shoat v Walkern,
6 Kansas, 65
"A tax deed to be sufficient, when recorded, to set the statute of limitation in operation Must of itself be przma facte
evidence of title.
It is not necessary that it be sufficient to withstand all evidence brought against it to show
that it is bad, but it must appear to be good upon its face.
When the deed discloses upon its face that it is illegal,
when it discloses upon its face that it is executed in violation
of law, the law will not assist it. No statute of limitations can
then be brought in to aid its validity"
Similar decisions have been made in the cases of .3fason
v Crowder, 85 Missouri, 526, Sheeky v ]Hinds, 27 Minnesota,
259, Cutler v lHurlbut, 29 Wisconsin, 152, Gomer v Chafee,
6 Colorado, 314, Woford v .Mce.hnna, 23 Texas, 36.
We do not discover in the statute of Arkansas, nor in the
decisions of its courts, cited by counsel for defendant, anything
to contravene these views, and we think that both the weight
of authority and sound principle are in favor of the proposition that when a deed founded on a sale for taxes is introduced

