PATRICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

PATRICK v. GRAE[AM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR TE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 152. Argued December 10, 1889.-Decided January 6, 1890.

Where a case has gone to a hearing, testimony been submitted to the jury
under objection but without stating any reason for the objection, and a
verdict rendered, with judgment on the verdict, the losing party cannot,
in the appellate court, state for the first time a reason for that objection
which would make it good.
In an action to recover damages for the taking of ore from a mine by the
proprietor of an adjoining mine, who had broken in, a witness for defendant was asked whether he had a model of the mine, but was not asked
whether it was correct, and did not say that it would illustrate the subject
about which he was testifying. Plaintiff objected to its production and
the objectio4 was sustained. In this court no copy of the model was
produced, Held, that it was properly rejected.
The evidence of a person who did not personally know about the amount of
ore taken from the mine was properly rejected at the trial of such action,
and cannot be held to be admissible under a stipulation which does not
form part of the record.
An exception to the refusal to give instructions in the language of counsel
is of no avail if the court substantially gives the same instructions,
although in different language.

THE case is stated m the opinion.
-Mr C. S. Thomas, (with whom was Mr T

[. PatteMrson

on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
-Mr A. W Bucker for defendants in error.
XM.

JUSTICE

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado.
In that court, Graham and Guggenheim sought to recover
of Patrick and others the value of certain mineral ores taken
from the Minme lode mining claim of the plaintiffs and converted to their own use, alleging that the defendants were

628'

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

guilty of a trespass, and that the quantity taken amounted to
five hundred tons of gold, silver and lead-bearing ore of the
value of $60,035. To this the defendants answered, admitting
that plaintiffs were owners in fee of the Minnie lode mining
claim, but denying that they were sole owners of said claim,
and insisting that Samuel Harsh was a co-owner and co-tenant
with them. They deny the trespass and conversion of the five
hundred tons or any quantity of the ore, and deny that the
ore was of the value of $60,035 or any other sum.
A replication was filed by plaintiffs denying the co-ownership of Harsh, and the cause came on for hearing and was submitted to a jury, who found in favor of the plaintiffs, and
assessed their damages at the sum of $20,779. A motion was
made to set aside this verdict and grant a new trial, which
was overruled, and a judgment entered for the amount of the
verdict in favor of plaintiffs. To this judgment the present
writ of error is prosecuted.
It seems to have been conceded at the trial that the defendants, who owned the adjoining mineral claim, called the Colonel
Sellers lode, in pursuing that lode, had broken into the vein of
the plaintiffs, known as the Minnie lode, which was the prior
and superior claim, and that they na'd taken therefrom a very
considerable quantity of valuable ore, which they had mixed
with the ore from their own lode and converted to their own
use, by selling it with theirs.
The only question in contest before the jury was the rule by
which the damages of the plaintiff should be ascertained. As
to that subject, the plaintiffs took one or two exceptions to the
ruling of the court in regard to the admission of testimony
The ground of the first assignment of error is, that the court
admitted, against the objection of the defendants, certain testimony of Meyer Guggenheim, one of the plaintiffs. In his testimony Guggenheim undertook to detail a conversation which
he had had with Patrick and Whiting, two of the defendants,
before the bringing of the suit and with regard to the trespass.
The question was asked him "What was said between you
upon the subject, commencing with the first conversation you
had, if you had more than one
State what the conver-

PATRICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

sation was." To this question, "the defendants, by counsel,
But the court
then and there objected on the grounds -"
overruled the objection, and permitted the witness to answer.
In his answer, he stated that Patrick admitted that they had
mixed the ores from the M[innie mine and from the Colonel
Sellers mine, and he said that he had written to the parties in
control of the mine that they should get off the ground.
The objection taken here to this testimony is, that it was
part of a conversation had with a view to a compromise of the
controversy and that it could not be used as evidence against
the party for that reason. The testimony itself, being evidence of the conversion of the ore by the defendants, with a
knowledge that it was the property of plaintiffs, was pertinent
as to the measure of damages. It was, therefore, only to be
excluded, if at all, on some ground other than its want of
relevancy to the issue.
The record before us does not show that the defendants at
the tune of the trial and at the time that the objection was
made to the introduction of this evidence gave any reason at
all why it should be rejected, much less the reason which they
now insist on.
It cannot be permitted that, after the case has gone to
a hearing, testimony submitted to the jury and a verdict
rendered, a party, for tne first time, shall state a reason
for his objection to that evidence which would make the objection good. The record is precisely as we have copied it,
showing that while defendants "then and there objected on
the grounds -" the record is then silent. No grounds were
stated so far as we know For this reason we think there
is no error in the record on that subject.
If we were inclined to have any doubt upon this point, it
would be satisfied by the language of the court in its charge
to the jury, where it is said that "it is in proof that in going
over into the plaintiffs' territory the defendants' foreman was
in ignorance of the fact that he was upon plaintiffs' ground,
and the question is, whether under the circumstances in evidence this qmounts to gross negligence on the part of the
defendants." This charge of the court accords with the state-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court,

ment in the bill of exceptions, that m reply to further objection to the testimony relating to the effort to agree, the court
said that the "part which is not competent under the rule
will be stricken out." It is obvious that the jury were in
effect told to disregard any testimony showing that the trespass on the part of defendants was intentional and with knowledge of the rights of plaintiffs.
The next assignment of error is that a witness called by the
defendants to testify as to the value and quantity of the ore
taken out of plaintiffs' mine (after stating that he had made
measurements of the stope from which the plaintiffs' ore had
been taken, by which measurement he calculated the amount
of ore that had been so taken) had introduced a plat of the
mine and of these measurements. He was then asked the
question
"What proportion of the vein comprised in the Minnie and
A. Y mines does this stope bear, according to your measurement 2 Have you a model that would show that 2
"A. I have a model here.
"Q. Produce it."
To the production and exhibition of this model the plaintiffs objected. The objection was sustained by the court, and
to this an exception was taken by the defendants. Tis exception is now urged as sufficient to reverse the judgment.
But we have no copy of the model here. We have no description of it. The witness did not swear to its correctness. He
did not even say that it would illustrate the subject about
which he was testifying. He simply said ' I have a model
here." It is impossible for this court to assume that the judge
at the trial was incorrect in refusing to permit such a model
to go in evidence.
The defendant, J. 0. Whiting, was introduced as a witness,
and m the course of his testimony he was asked "What companies or smelters were purchasing ores from the Cblonel Sellers mine during the months of March, April, May and June,
1883 2" To which he answered as follows
"A. We had in these months a contract runmng with the
Harrison Smelter, with the Arkansas Valley, with the Colo-

PATRICK v. GRAT

A.

Opinion of the Court.

rado Smelting and Refining Company, the Pueblo, with the
Kansas City, and with the Argentine Smelting and Refining
Company I can't remember all.
"Q. In making settlements during this time did you receive
duplicate statements from them of the amounts of ore sold 29
"A. Ordinarily we didn't get duplicate statements, we got
the original statements.
" Q. You received a statement 2
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Can you state what the gross receipts of ore sold from
the Colonel Sellers mine for the month of April, 1885, were 9
"A. I can.
"Q. Now state what they were.
"Plaintiffs object to the question on the ground that ore
shipments from the Colonel Sellers mine certainly can throw
no light upon this case, also the point argued at length that
a mixture of high-grade ore from the stope in question with
the low-grade ores from the grounds of the Colonel Sellers
mine would so reduce the value per ton of ore from plaintiffs'
property as to make the statement on that basis manifestly
unjust to the plaintiffs.
"The objection was sustained."
The counsel for defendant then said "I nave a stipulation
from the other side that the evidence, if received at all, may be
introduced in the shape of ore statements verified by the officers of the smelters furnishing them, so as to dispense with the
necessity of producing so many witnesses." But this stipulation is nowhere produced in the record. Nor is there any
verification of these ore receipts, nor any proof whatever of
their truth. The court, we think, very properly rejected the
testimony of Mr. Whiting on that subject, for it does not
appear that he himself personally knew anything about the
quantity of ore taken out during the period alluded to.
These seem to be all the errors assigned on which counsel
for plaintiffs m error rely An exception was taken to the
refusal of the court to grant certain prayers for instructions
offered by defendants, but these were substantially given,
although in different language, in the charge of the court to

