OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

ANTHONY v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE
RAILROAD COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 77. Argued and submitted November 7,1889. -Decided

November 18, 1889.

An exception to the refusal of the presiding judge at a jury trial to instruct
the jury in language prayed for by counsel is of no avail, if the refusal
be followed by instructions m the general charge, substantially to the
same effect, but in the language of the court.
A general exception to the whole of a charge to the jury will not avail a
plaintiff in error if the charge contains distinct propositions and any one
of them is free from objejtions.

THE case is stated in the opimon.
Mr D P 1yer and Mr NathzanF
rank, for plaintiff in
error, submitted on their brief.
Atr Henry IF Bond for defendant in error.
Mm. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by the plaintiff to recover damages from
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company for injuries
suffered by him by reason of the derailment of a car attached
to a train belonging to that company, in which he was being
earned as a passenger on its line from Louisville, Kentucky,
to St. Louis, Missouri.
The answer of the defendant set up that the accident was
caused by reason of a latent or hidden defect or flaw in the
body of a steel rail laid on the track of the road, a defect
which no outward inspection could detect. Issue being joined,
the case was brought to trial and certain instructions to the
jury were requested by the plaintiff, which set forth, with substantial accuracy, the liability of railroad companies for having
defective roads, by which accidents are caused to passengers
travelling in their cars. These instructions were refused, and

ANTHONY v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD CO.
Opimon of the Court.

to the refusal exceptions were taken. These exceptions, however, cannot tvail the plaintiff in error, because the substance
of the instructions refused was contained in the charge subsequently given by the court. The object of the instructions
was to impart such information as would govern the jury in
their deliberations and guide to a right conclusion in their
verdict. Such information can generally be most advantageously given after the conclusion of the testimony and the
argument of counsel, and it is not material whether it be
then given immediately in response to the request of counsel
or be contained in the formal charge of the court.
The charge itself, though embddying the substance of the
instructions asked, also referred to other matters presenting
distinct propositions of law, but to none of them was any
exception taken, pointing out specifically the matter objected
to. Only a general exception to the whole charge was made,
and a general exception of that kind will not avail a plaintiff
in error, where the charge contains distinct propositions and
any one of them is free from objection. The whole charge
must be substantially wrong before such a general exception
will avail for any purpose. This is the settled law established
by numerous decisions of this court. Lincoln v Claflin, I
Wall. 132, 139, Cooper v Scklesinger, 111 U S. 148, 151,
Alohile & .Aontgomery Railway Co. v Jurey, 111 U. S. 584,
596, Burton v West Jersey Ferry Co., 114 U S. 414, 476.
It is also required by the fourth rule of this court, which provides as follows "The judges of the Circuit and District
Courts shall not allow any bill of exceptions which shall contain the charge of the court at large to the jury in trials at
common law, upon any general exception to the whole of
such charge. But the party excepting shall be required to
state distinctly the several matters of law in such charge to
which he excepts, and those-matters of law, and those only,
shall be inserted in the bill of exceptions and allowed by the
court."

Whatever, therefore, may be the actual merits of the plaintiff's claim to damages, nothing is presented to us by the
record which we can examine.
Judgment affirmed.

