YOUNG v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

(.yrztts v Palmer,.post 282,) it is sufficient in this case to say
that such incompetency cannot be considered unless set up m
the pleadings in the court below A failure to comply with
the provisions of the law will not be presumed in the absence
of any allegation on the subject. The objection cannot be
urged for the first time m this court.
Judgment {ff~rmed.

YOUNG v. PARKER'S ADMINISTRATOR.
APPEAL

FROM THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 75.Submitted November 6,1889.-Decided December 2,1889.

On the facts stated in the opinion it is Held, that there is no separable
controversy in this case; but that if there were, the provision as to the
removal of such a controversy has no application to a removal on the
ground of local prejudice.
In order to the removal of a cause from a state court on the ground of
local prejudice, under Rev. Stat. ยง 639, it is essential, where there are
several plaintiffs or several defendants, that all the necessary parties on
one side be citizens of the State where the suit is brought, and all on the
other side be citizens of another State or other States; and the proper
citizenship must exist when the action is commenced as well as when
the petition for removal is filed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
21b T B. Swann for appellants.
iUfr S. A. .Miller and Ab' J F Brown for appellees.
MiR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinon of the

court.

In December, 1865, Milton Parker filed his bill in the Circuit
Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia, against John 1.
Clarkson and some seventy other defendants, seeking the
marshalling of assets and the subjection of Clarkson's property

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

to the satisfaction of certain judgments held by the complainant against him, which appears to have been treated, and may
be considered, as having been intended to bring all Clarkson's
creditors into concourse, and after the adjustment of the liens
of those having security, to devote any remaining property,
or any surplus arising upon the securities, to the discharge of
his liabilities. The cause was referred to a commissioner to
take, state and report an account of the property owned by
Clarkson and the liens thereon and their priorities, and various
reports were made in the premises.
On the 8th day of July, 1871, C. G. Hussey & Company
and John Johns, assignee of John N. Clarkson in bankruptcy,
described in an order of the Circuit Court of that date as
defendants, filed their petition and affidavit, sworn to by
"J N. Clarkson, a party to the above-mentioned suit," for
the removal of the cause into the United States Court for the
District of West Virgima, in these words:
"Your petitioners, John Johns, assignee of J N. Clarkson
in bankruptcy, and a citizen and inhabitant of the State of
Virginia, and C. G. Hussey and Charles Avery, partners in
business, using the name of C. G. Hussey & Company, and
citizens and inhabitants of the State of Pennsylvania, respectfully represent unto your honor that they are parties defendants and also plaintiffs on a bill of review and petition in a
suit pending in chancery in your honor's court, in Kanawha
County, in which Milton Parker is complainant and John N.
Clarkson and others are defendants.
"That among the defendants are E. Hemmings, S. Thornburg, A. H. Beach, Henry Chappell, J H. Brown, Ann Thomas,
J M. Laidley and J D Lewis and J C. Ruby, all of whom
are citizens and inhabitants of the State of West Virgima,
that said suit is now pending in said Circuit Court of Kanawha
County, and in said suit there is a controversy between your
petitioners in different rights, and the aforesaid parties, citizens and inhabitants of the State of West Virginia, in which
ld suit is pending, that the matter in dispute exceeds the
sum of $500, exclusive of costs. Your petitioners have reason
to and do believe, that from prejudice or local influence they,

YOUNG v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

nor either of them, will not be able to obtain justice in such
state court, they file this petition for the removal of said
cause of Par
7er v
larkson and others, now pending in the
Circuit Court for Kanawha CounVr, West Virginia, unto the
District Court of the United States, held at Charleston, West
Virginia, the same being in the district where this suit is
pending, etc."
The cause was thereupon ordered to be removed as prayed.
On the 10th day of April, 1872, another order was entered
in the case by the State Circuit Court, reciting that a mistake
had been made m respect to the filing of a bond upon removal,
and the bond being now filed, the court directs such removal
on the petition of July 8, 1871, and "on the affidavit of the
said C. G. Hussey, this day fied, the sufficiency of which
affidavit and bond is hereby approved by this court."
The affidavit referred to is as follows
"Your petitioners, C. G. Hussey and Charles Avery, partners in trade, using the name, firm and style of C. G. Hussey
& Co., and citizens and inhabitants of the State of Pennsylvania, respectfully represent unto your honor that they are
parties defendants, and also parties plaintiffs on petition and
bill of review m a cause pending, on the chancery side of your
honor's court, m Kanawha County, West Virginia, m which
Milton Parker is complainant, and John N. Clarkson et als.
are defendants.
"That among the defendants are E. Hemmings, A. H.
Beach, H. Chappell, J A. Brown, J D. Lewis, J. M. Laidley,
all of whom are citizens and inhabitants of the State of West
Virginia, that said suit and bill of review therein are now
pending in said court for Kanawha-County, W Va.
"That in said suit and bill of review there is a controversy
between your petitioners in different rights and the aforesaid
parties, citizens and inhabitants of the State of West Virginia. in
which State said suit is pending, that the matter so in controversy and dispute exceeds the sum of $500, exclusive of costs.
"Your petitioners have reason to and do believe that from
prejudice or local influences they will not be able to obtain justice m said state court.

OCTOBER TER-L,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

"They file this petition for the removal of said cause of
Parkerv. Clarkson et als., now pending in the Circuit Court for
Kanawha County, West Virginia, unto the District Court of
the United States for the District of West Virginia, (having
Circuit Court powers,) held at Charleston, West Virginia, same
being in the district where this suit is now pending."
January 21, 1873, the record was filed and the cause docketed in the United States Court. Various proceedings were
afterwards taken therein, and a decree was rendered on the
12th day of December, 1885, determining the amounts due to,
and priorities of, some of the creditors, and directing the sale
of certain real estate. From this decree the pending appeal
was prosecuted.
The record is in a confused and imperfect condition, but it
shows, among other things, that C. G. Hussey & Company
were judgment creditors of Clarkson, and Hussey and his partner are described in both petitions as citizens and inhabitants
of the State of Pennsylvania. In the first petition, nine persons, and, in the second, six, are designated from among the
defendants as citizens and inhabitants of the State of West
Virginia. It is stated in the first petition that Clarkson's assignee in bankruptcy was, at the time of filing it, a citizen
and inhabitant of the State of Virginia. The assignee did
not join in the second, although his name is signed, by attorney,
to the bond given on removal.
There was no separable controversy here, Fidelity -Insurance Company v luntington, 117 U. S. 280, Ayers v Chtcago, 101 U. S. 184, 187, but if there were, the provision as,
to the removal of such a controversy has no application to a
removal on the ground of* local prejudice, under the act of
AlTarch 2, 1867, c. 196, 14 Stat. 558, upon which these petitions
were based. Jefferson, v Drwver, 117 U. S. 272.
The provisions of that act are reproduced in the third subdivision of section 639 of the Revised Statutes, and it was and
is essential, in order to such removal, where there are several
plaintiffs or several defendants, that all the necessary parties
on one side must be citizens of the State where the suit is
brought, and all on the other side must be citizens of another

