DRAVO v. FABEL.
Opinion of the Court.

DRAYO v. FABEL.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 142. Argued December 4, 1889.-

Decided December 16,1889.

When the plaintiff in a suit in equity does not waive an answer under oath,
the defendant's answer, directly responsive to the bill, is evidence in his
behalf.
The statute of Pennsylvania providing that a party in a suit in equity may
be examined as a witness by the other party as if under cross-examination, and that his evidence may be rebutted by counter testimony, has no
application to suits in equity in courts of the United States held within
the State.
The party offering m a court of the United States in Pennsylvania a deposition taken under that statute, makes the witness his own, and is not at
liberty to contend that he is not entitled to credit.
A decision of a District Court on a question of fact, affirmed by the Circuit
Court, will not be disturbed by this court unless the error is clear.

IlN

EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.D TWatson (with whom was A
.
the brief) for appellants.

1Wilhiam S. Peron

Mr G A. Jenks for appellees.
MRe.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By two deeds, one dated January' 22, 1876, reciting a consideration of $10,000, and the other, dated January 26, 1876,
reciting a consideration of $18,000, and both executed, acknowledged and delivered to the grantees on the last-named
day, John Dippold and wife conveyed to Philip Fabel and Kate
Fabel, his wife, (the latter being a daughter of the grantors,)
two tracts of land in the county of Beaver, State of Pennsylvania. Both deeds were recorded in the proper office, but not
until the 16th day of February, 1878.
On the 1st of March, 1878, John Dippold, John HI. Dippold,
Martin Dippold and Jacob HI. Dippold, doing business under
the name of John Dippold & Sons, were adjudged bankrupts

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

by the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Pennsylvania. Their assignees m bankruptcy,
duly appointed and qualified, were the present appellants,
who, June 13, 1879, brought this suit in the same court against
the appellees.
The bill alleged that neither of the grantees possessed means
sufficient for the purchase of these lands, and that the deeds
to them were executed with the intent and purpose of hindering, delaying and defrauding the creditors of John Dippold,
and to prevent the lands from going to, and being distributed
by, his assignees in bankruptcy It, also, alleged a conspiracy
and combination between Dippold and the grantees, pursuant
to winch the former was to make said conveyances in order
that the lands could be held by the grantees for the benefit of
themselves and of John Dippold, discharged from the claims
of his creditors, and that the deeds were a mere contrivance
between him and them, whereby the lands "were to be m such
condition as to the title thereof that if at any time the said
John Dippold should become seriously and financially embarrassed it nght be made to seem" that he'" was not the
owner of said properties."
It further alleged that, in January, 1876, John Dippold, as
a meniber of ins firm, was largely engaged in business, borrowing large sums of money down until the date of the petition in bankruptcy, and that during all that time he and the
respondents conspired to have it believed by the public generally, and by creditors dealing with him, that he was the
owner of these lands, and, by reason of such belief, creditors
would be and were, induced to trust and confide m ins financial
responsibility
The relief sought was a decree declaring the deeds null and
void, fraudulent as to creditors, and vesting no right in the
grantees, as against Dippold's creditors and assignees in bankruptcy, and requiring Fabel and wife to release and convey
their apparent title to the assignees in bankruptcy
The bill was sworn to, and did not waive the oath of the
defendants to their respective answers.
The answers, which were under oath, besides putting in issue

DIRAVO v. FABEL.
Opinion of the Court.

all the material allegations of the bill, averred that the transactions evidenced by the deeds were bona fde, that the deeds
were executed and delivered at their respective dates, and
that the consideration named in each was paid by the grantees
to Dippold in money
The District Court dismissed the bill with costs, and a similar decree was rendered upon appeal in the Circuit Court.
The only error assigned is the refusal of the Circuit Court
to declare the deeds to Philip Fabel and his wife to be fraudulent and void as to the creditors and assignees in bankruptcy
of John Dippold.
This case does not present any difficult question of law Its
determination depends entirely upon the special facts and circumstances disclosed by the evidence.
Conceding that the case was an uncommon one, and that,
some of its circumstances tended to excite suspicion as to the
integrity of the transaction between Dippold and his grantees,
the conclusion of the District Court was that the clear weight
of the evidence was on the side of the defendants, and that
the bill should be disnssed. Itwas accordingly so decreed.
Dravo v .Falel, 25 Fed. Rep. 116. A similar decree was
passed in the Circuit Court.
The answers of the defendants, being directly responsive to
the bill, are evidence in their behalf, the plaintiffs not having
waived, as they might have done, answers under oath. Conley v. Nrailor, 118 U. S. 127, 134, 41st Eq. rule, as amended.
Besides, the depositions upon which the plaintiffs must rely
to sustain the charge of fraud are those of the principal defendants, John Dippold and Philip Fabel. These depositions
were taken and read by the plaintiffs. It is true they were
taken "as under cross-examination," pursuant to a statute of
Pennsylvania, which declares that "a party to the record of
any civil proceeding in law or equity, or a person for whose
immediate benefit such proceeding is prosecuted or defended,
may be examined as if under cross-examination, at the instance
of the adverse party, or any of them, and for that purpose
may be compelled, in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules for examination as any other witness, to testify,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

but the party calling for such examination shall not be concluded thereby, but may rebut it by counter-testimony" 1
Brightly's Purdon's Digest, '728. But that statute has no
application to suits in equity in the courts of the United
States. The act of Congress providing that the practice,
pleadings, forms and modes of proceedings m civil causes in
the courts of the United States shall conform, as near as may
be, to the practice, pleadings, forms and modes of proceedings
existing at the time in like causes in the courts of record of
the State, expressly excepts equity and admiralty causes. 17
Stat. 197, c. 255, ยง 5, Rev Stat. ยง 914. So that, when the
plaintiffs used the depositions of Dippold and Fabel, taken
"as under cross-examination," they made those parties their
own witnesses. While the plaintiffs were not concluded by
their evidence, and might show they were mistaken, it could
not be properly contended by the plaintiffs that they were
unworthy of credit. The evidence must be given such weight
as under all the circumstances it is fairly entitled to receive.
The case comes within the ruling in ]2&mmers v -Yrissen, (Sup.
Ct. iRep. Lawyer's ed. Book 25, p. 562,) where the finding of
the court of original jurisdiction, upon a mere question of fact,
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. Chief Justice Waite said "Under such circumstances, we ought not to
disturb the judgment of the state court unless the error is
clear. No less stringent rule should be applied in cases of this
kind than that which formerly governed in admiralty appeals,
when two courts had found in the same way on a question of
fact."
Without stating the evidence in detail, we content ourselves
with saying that upon a careful review of all the circumstances
disclosed by the record, we do not feel justified in disturbing
the conclusion reached by the District and Circuit Courts upon
mere questions of fact.
-Decr'eecafflrmed,

