ROYER v. ROTH.
Opinion of the Co

ROYER v. ROTH.
APPERA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 83. Submitted November 7,1889.-Decided November 25, 1889.

The claim of letters patent No. 172,346, granted to Herman Royer, January 18, 1876, for an improvement in machines for treating rawhides,
namelv, 1In combination with the drum A of a rawhide fulling machine,
operating to twist the leather alternately in one direction and the other,
a shifting device for the purpose of making the operation automatic and
continuous, substantially as described," does not cover any patentable
combination, it being a mere aggregation of parts.
The automatic shifting device was old, as attached to a washing machine,
and there was no modification of its action produced by attaching it to
the fulling machine. Therefore, its application to that machine did not
require the exercise of invention.

IN

EQUITY

for the infringement of letters patent.

Decree

dismissing the bill, from which plaintiff appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion.
MAr M21.
A. W7waton, for appellant, submitted on his brief.
M1r Manuel Eyre, for Roth, appellee, submitted on his brief.
AIR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit m equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California, by Herman Royer
against Solomon Roth and L. P Degen, to recover for the
infringement of letters patent No. 172,346, granted to the
plaintiff January 18, 1876, on an application filed November
15, 1875, for an improvement in machines for treating rawhides.
The bill states that the invention consisted m1 "combining
with the drum of a rawhide fulling machine, operating to
twist the hide alternately in one direction and then in the
other, a shifting device for the purpose of making the operation automatic and continuous."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Each defendant put in a separate answer denying that the
plaintiff was the inventor of such shifting device, and alleging
want of novelty, with proper averments.
After a replication to the answers, proofs were taken, the
case was brought to a hearing, and the Circuit Court disimssed
the bill. The decree states that the plaintiff first conceived of.
the combination of an automatic reverser attached to the
drum of a rawhide fulling machine, operating to twist the
leather in one direction and the other, for the purpose of making the operation automatic and continuous, as described and
claimed in the patent, that, at the request of the plaintiff,
one Clerc, a mechanic, made the automatic reverser described
m the patent, and, in October, 1867, delivered the same to the
plaintiff, who attached it to his fulling machine; that the
combination was new with the plaintiff, and was useful, and
his use thereof was secret until he applied for the patent,
that it was not obvious and was not known whether the new
combination could be used successfully for the practical treatment of rawhide, which was the work for which the combined
machine was intended, until after it had been tested and tried
by the plaintiff, that it was obvious to any skilled mechanic
that an automatic reverser could be applied to the drum of a
rawhide fulling machine so as to make it reverse its motion
automatically at any desired fixed intervals; that the patent
does not cover any patentable invention, and that, for that
reason alone, the bill is dismissed.
The specification says "The object of my invention is to
provide an improvement in a rawhide fulling machine, for
which letters patent were granted to me, and it consists in an
automatic device by which I am enabled to run the machine
m one direction for a sufficient length of time and then reverse
it, this process continuing automatically until the leather is
finished."
The drawings show the machine as operated by belts, but
the specification states that gears or friction couplings could
be used if desired, and the action of the machine still be automatic. The machine employed for fulling rawhides, or formmg them into leather, has a drum, A, the central shaft of

ROYER v. ROTH.
Opinion of the Court.

which has upon its lower end a bevel gear. With this gear
two pimions mesh at opposite sides, one of the pinions being
mounted upon a solid shaft, which passes through the hollow
shaft of the other pinion, and has a driving pulley keyed to it.
Another driving pulley is keyed to the hollow shaft, and a
loose pulley runs between them. When the belt turns one off
the keyed pulleys, the machine will operate in one direction,
and when the belt is shifted to the other keyed .pulley, it will
operate in the opposite direction. In order to make such
action automatic, there is a belt-shifter, which is a part of, or
attached to, a sliding bar. That bar is operated by a lever,
which is hinged or pivoted, and works in a slot or link upon
the bar, so that when turned from side to side it will slide the
bar in one direction or the other. A weight is secured to the
top of the lever, so that as soon as the lever passes the centre
it will fall by its own weight and suddenly shift the belt. In
order to operate this lever, there is another sliding bar, which
moves below and parallel with the sliding bar first mentioned,
the second bar having pins upon each side of the lever, so that
when the second bar is moved it will shift the lever. The
second bar has a nut projecting downward from it, and there
is a screw formed upon a horizontal shaft so as to fit the nut.
A belt from a pulley on the solid shaft extends to a pulley on
the last-named horizontal shaft, and by its action the screw
will be turned in one direction until the lever has passed the
centre and fallen over so as to shift the belt to the other
pulley, when the whole mechanism will be moved in an opposite direction until the screw has again moved the second
sliding bar and reversed the lever. The specification states
that the machine is thus made automatic in its action, and can
be left until the work is entirely finished, and that a frictional coupling or reversing gear might be used in place of a
belt, but would not work as well.
The claim of the patent is as follows "In combination with
the drum A of a rawhide fulling machine, operating to twist
the leather alternately in one direction and the other, a shifting device for the purpose of making the operation automatic
and continuous, substantially as described."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmon of the Court.

The evidence is conclusive that one Clerc, as early as 1864,
in San Francisco, made an automatic shifting device the same
as that described in the patent, and attached to it a washing
machine, and continued from that time to make such automatic reversers and put them into use, and that, in 1867, at
the request of the plaintiff, he made the shifting device described in the patent, which the plaintiff attached to his fulling machine. The only difference between the shifting device
made by Olerc for the washing machines, and that made by
him for the plaintiff, was that in the washing machine reverser
the screw-shaft was driven by two gears, one on each end of it,
while the one described in the patent is driven by a belt, and
that the washing machine was horizontal, while the plaintiff's
machine was upright, in consequence of which the horizontal
machine required a spur gear, while the upright machine had
a bevel gear. But these changes were such as any skilful mechanic could make. The plaintiff, in giving his order to Clere
to make the reverser, gave him no directions as to how to construct it, and only gave him a drawing of the fulling machine
to which it was to be attached.
The operation of the automatic reverser in connection with
the fulling machine is precisely the same as its operation in
connection with the washing machine, or with any other machine to which it can be applied. There is no modification of
its action produced by attaching it to the fulling machine.
The plaintiff testifies that, before he had the automatic reverser, his fulling machine would run in one direction until the
belt was shifted by hand , that if the hides got too hot he had
to stop the motion and reverse it, and that he had also to stop
the action of the machine when the automatic reverser was attached to it, if the hides got too hot. It also appears, from
the plaintiff's testimony, that from 1867, when he attached the
automatic reverser to his machine, he was occupied for four
years in experimenting with the machine, before he perfected
the process of fulling the hides so that the machine would turn
out satisfactory work regularly and smoothly, that the difficulty was not with the automatic reverser, because that worked
and reversed m the same manner when first attached, in 1867,

IOYER v. ROTH.
Opinion of the Court.

that it did in 1871, that the difficulty with the machine, which
caused these experiments occupying four years, was that the
hides would not double backward uniformly, that when they
were wedged or packed the automatic reversing apparatus
would not stop the machine or reverse it soon enough to prevent injury, that the hides would double twice, and would
tear off from the shaft before the machinery could be stopped,
that the machine would often reverse before the unwinding
was completed, and thus the enlargements of the two folds or
doubles would meet, and the hides be torn from the shaft, that
as yet he had not perfected any process for satisfactorily producing the article now known as fulled rawhide, that to do so
he varied the condition of the hides as to moisture, until he
found that, at the right degree of dampness, the hides would
double backward with practical regularity, that he also several times changed the means by which he fastened the hides
to the shaft, that to make the article m question, the hides
had to be made soft and pliable by being subjected to a severe
and long-continued mechanical operation, such as twisting or
doubling back and forth, that, to do this, the hides had to be
in a certain condition as to moisture, neither too dry nor too
wet, that he had, therefore, to experiment by changing the
degree of moisture by slight variations, until he found the
proper degree, that he had to discover some mechanical means
by which all parts of every hide could be subjected to an equal
and uniform amount of mechanical action, so that no hard
spots would be left in the hide, that, some parts of a hide being three times as thick as other parts of the same hide, it was
difficult to discover whether there was a degree of moisture at
which the hides could be successfully treated in the machine,
because it took much more soaking to moisten the thick parts
of the hide than it did the thin, that he finally learned how to
moisten the entire hide uniformly by peculiar ways of folding
it while being moistened, and hanging it so that some parts of
the hide would be longer in water than other parts, that there
was also a great difference in the texture of different parts of
a hide, that no two hides are alike as to thickness and texture,
and that he did not overcome these difficulties until 1871.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

It is quite apparent, from this recital of the difficulties
encountered by the plaintiff, none of which are alluded to m
the specification of the patent, that if he invented anything
patentable, it consisted in some process of treating the hides,
so as to produce the merchantable article of fulled rawhide.
But there is no suggestion of any such invention in the specification or the claim.
There is no patentable combination of the automatic shift-.
ing device with the drum of the fulling machine. It is a mere
aggregation of parts. The shifting device operates automatically to reverse the action of the fulling machine m precisely
the same way that it operates when applied to any other
machine, and, the shifting device being old, its application to
the fulling machine did not require the exercise of invention.
Double Potnted Tack Co. v Two ]?.vers .Mamnufacturng Co.,
109 U. S. 117, 120, 121.
The same view was taken of this patent by Judge Drummond in the case of 1oyer v Ckwago -Aanufacturng Co.,
20 Fed. IRep. 853, decided by him in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, m June,
1884, in which he held that the invention was not patentable,
because it was merely the application of an old device used in
connection with a washing machine to an analogous use.
The principle has been applied by this court in various
cases. Pomace -Holder Co. v Ferguson, and cases there collected, 119 U. S. 335, 338, Thatcher -Heating Co. v. Burae,
121 U. S. 286, 295, Dreyfus v Searle, 124 U. S. 60, Hendy v
.Mners' Iron Works, 127 U. S. 370, 375.
Decree affirmed.

