MULLER v. NORTON.
Statement of the Case.

ship, it could hardly be contended that the importer would be
bound by his entry and invoice to pay duty on the entire cargo
shipped at Antwerp.
As to the point that the payment of the duties was voluntary on the part of the plaintiff, it is obvious to remark, that
.the case as already considered involved this very question.
The verdict of the jury in favor of the plaintiff, under the
instructions given, was virtually a finding of the fact that the
plaintiff was compelled to pay the illegal duties in order to
get possession of his goods. The counsel for the government
says that he ought to have asked for a reappraisal. The question whether he was bound to take that course or not was
involved m the inquiry submitted to the jury under the second
head of instructions.
We see no error in the record and the judgment is
Affirmed.

IMULLER v. NORTON.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 91.

Argued November 8,11,1889.-

Decided December 9, 1889.

Cunntngharnv. -orton, 125 U. S. 77, affirmed to the point that the act of the
legislature of Texas of March 24, 1879, in regard to assignments by insolvent debtors for the benefit of their creditors was intended to favor such
assignments; and that a provision in such an assignment, void in itself,
did not necessarily vitiate the assignment, or prevent its execution for

the benefit of creditors.
A provision in an assignment for the benefit of creditors that the assignee
shall at once take possession of all the assigned property "and convert
the same into cash" as soon as and upon the best terms possible, can
hardly be construed into a discretionary authority to sell on credit.
In Texas an assignment for the benefit of creditors, under the statute, may
be made to more than one assignee.

Tnis was an action of trespass brought in the court below
by Frederick Muller and Adolph Jacobs, assignees of the firm
of Louis Goldsal & Company, of Denison, Texas, against

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Anthony B. Norton, the United States marshal for the Northern District of Texas, and the sureties on his official bond, for
levying upon and seizing, under certain attachment suits in
that court, the goods, wares and merchandise of said firm
which had been assigned to the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs in their petition set up the fact of the assignment by virtue of which they asserted title to the property,
reciting the main portions of the deed at length, set out the
details of the various levies under the attachment suits; and
prayed judgment for the amount and value of the goods levied
on, winch were alleged to be something over $34,000. Upon
demurrer to the petition, the court below held the deed of
assignment null and void, and, accordingly, rendered a judgment in favor of the defendants. 19 Fed. Rep. '719. To reverse that judgment this writ of error was prosecuted.
The deed of assignment was as follows
"Know all men by these presents that we, Louis Goldsal
and Benjamin Hassberg, doing business as merchants in Denison, Grayson County, Texas, under the firm name and style
of 'Louis Goldsal & Co.,' for and in consideration of the sum
of one dollar, to us in hand paid by Fred. Muller and A. Jacobs,
of same place, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged,
and for the further purposes and considerations hereinafter
stated, have this day assigned, bargained, sold and conveyed,
and by these presents do assign, bargain, sell and convey, unto
the said Fred. Muller and A. Jacobs all the property of every
kind owned by us, or either of us, individually or as a firm,
either real, personal or mixed, said property consisting of our
stock of merchandise situated in our place of business known
as Nos. 204 & 206, south side, Main Street, in Denison, Texas,
being composed of dry goods, clothing, boots, shoes, hats, caps,
trunks, valises, gents' furnishing goods, show-cases, book accounts, etc., worth about twenty-seven thousand dollars, and
all other property owned by us or either of us not herein mentioned, except such of our or either of our property as is
exempt from execution by the laws of the State of Texas and
no other, to have and to hold unto them, the said Fred.
Muller and A. Jacobs, their assigns and successors, forever.

MULLER v. NORTO..
Argument for Defendants in Error.

This conveyance is made, however, for the following purposes,
to wit We, the said Louis Goldsal and Benjamin Hassberg,
doing business as aforesaid under the firm name of 'Louis
Goldsal & Co.,' are insolvent, being indebted beyond what we
or either of us are able to pay, and desire to secure a just and
proper distribution of our and each of our property among our
creditors, and this assignment is made in trust to the said Fred.
Muller and A. Jacobs for the benefit of such of our creditors
only as will consent to accept their proportional share of our
estate and discharge us from their respective claims, and for
said purpose the said .ed. .Muller and A. Xacobs are hereby
authorized and directed to take possessno at once of all the
_property above conveyed anf convert the same snto cask as soon
and upon the best terms possible for the best interest of our
creditors, and execute and deliver all necessary conveyances
therefor to the purchasers, and to collect such of the claims due
us or either of us as are collectible, and to bring and prosecute
such suits therefor as may be necessary, and to execute and
deliver all proper receipts, releases and discharges to our said
debtors on the payment of said claims, and to do and perform
each and every act and thing whatsoever requisite, necessary
and proper for them to do m and about the premises for the
proper and lawful administration of this trust in accordance
with the law, and the said Fred. Muller and A. Jacobs shall
pay the proceeds of our said property, according to law, to
such of our creditors as shall legally consent to accept their
proportional share of our estates, property and effects as aforesaid, and discharge us from their respective claims, and no
others, he first paying the expenses of administering this trust,
and a reasonable compensation to himself for his services."
-Mr IT Hfallett Pkilliys for plaintiffs in error. _3f' Sawne
.Pobertson also filed a brief for same.
X,r -D A. 3cKnight (with whom was -3Wr JohnT
Johns on
the brief) for defendants in error.
I. The deed of assignment is void, as against non-consenting
creditors, for the reason that it authorizes the assignees to sell
upon credit.

OCTOBER TERI, 1889.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

"To convert into cash" is obviously not the equivalent of
"to sell for cash." The fair meaning of the clause, convert
the same into "cash," is to convert the same into "money"
It necessarily involves the authority to sell on credit, for if the
clause is not a direction to sellfor cash, it must be an authority
to sell on credit. This view is enforced by the addition of the
phrase "on the best terms possible." In the following cases,
wherein the assignee had authority to fix the "terms" of sale,
it was held that a sale on credit was implied. Sumnerv HicN,
. C. 60
2 Black, 532, -Huteh'nsonv Lord, 1 Wisconsin, 286,
Am. Dec. 381, Zeep v Sanderson, 12 Wisconsin, 352, Beus
v Skaughnessy, 2 Utah, 492, .Mor v Brown, 14 Barb. 39,
Sckufeldt v Abernethy, 2 Duer, 533.
In the- case at bar, the court below held that the assignment
authorized a sale on credit, and that for that reason it was
void against non-consenting creditors. .uller v .forton,19
Fed. Rep. 719. In fact it appears to be a settled rule in most
of the States that an authority to the assignor to sell upon
credit renders the deed of assignment void on its face. In
addition to the above cited cases see -Mclearyv Allen, -7
Nebraska, 21, Collier v -Davs,47 Arkansas, 367, Bagley v
Bowe, 105 N. Y 171. The ground of the ruling is that an
authority to sell on credit tends to hinder or delay creditors,
and is obnoxious to the statute of 13 Eliz., which is substantially in force in most of the States. See Jajjrey v .McGekee,
107 U. S. 365, _?obznson v Elliott, 22 Wall. 513, _Yeans v.
-Dowd, 128 U. S. 273.
Under the statutes of Texas, and the decisions of her courts,
a deed of assignment authorizing a sale upon credit is voidable
by non-consenting creditors. When the assignment in question was made, there were two statutes in force which governed it, namely, the statute against fraudulent conveyances,
substantially the statute of 13 Eliz., in force from an early
day (Rev. Stats. 1879, Art. 2465, p. 363) and the act regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors, approved March
24, 1879 (Id. App. p. 5). The act of 1879 is silent as to the
time, terms and manner of sale, and where the statute is
silent, the assignee must be governed by the deed of assign-

MULLER v. NORTON.
Opmon of the Court.

ment. Ogden v Peters, 21 N. Y 23, S. C. 78 Am. Dec. 122,
In3%
re .ewis, 81 N. Y 421, Adler v Ecker, 1 McCrary, 256,
Hopkins v -Ray, 1 Met. (Mass.) 79, Collier v -Dams, 47
Arkansas, 367. lWert v Schneider, 64 Texas, 327, arose under
the act of 1879. On the authority of this case we contend
that the court would have held the assignment void on its face
if it had found there authority to sell on credit. See Blun v
TFelborne, 58 Texas, 157, Donoho v Fish, 58 Texas, 164,
Keating v Vaughn, 61 Texas, 518, KYeller v Smalley, 63
Texas, 512. See also Bagley v Bowe, ubi sipra, -Eicks v
Copeland, 53 Texas, 581, 590, Baldwin v Peet, 22 Texas, 708,
S. C 75 Am. Dec. 806, Carlton v Baldwin, 22 Texas, 724,
ffave v Britton, 61 Texas, 572. These Texas rulings were
made under the statute against fraudulent conveyances; which
is in force as to deeds of assignment under the act of
1879. La Belle TFagom Works v Tidball, 59 Texas, 291.
In view of the state of the law in Texas and other States, a
Federal Court may hold this assignment void on its face, where
the rights of non-resident creditors are involved. Schoolfeld
v. Johnson, 11 Fed. Rep. 297, RHeelan v Roagland, 10 Nebraska, 511, Bonns v. Carter, 20 Nebraska, 566, Edwards v
.Mitchell, I Gray, 239, Pike v Bacon, 21 Maine, 280, S. C. 38
Am. Dec. 259, Baleigh v Grfflth, 37 Arkansas, 150, Curchill
v. IWhppTle, 41 Wisconsin, 611. This case is distmnishable
from Cunningharm v Norton. The contention there related
to paying over to the debtor the surplus remaimng after paying consenting creditors.
II. The deed of assignment is void as against non-consenting creditors, for the reason that it is not made to one assignee
as required by the statute.
Mm JuSTICE
FLimAR,

after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The validity of the above deed m view of matters apparent
on its face constitutes the only question for consideration.
We think that question is determined by the principle laid
down in Cunningham v Norton., 125 'U. S. 77, which reversed

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the judgment- on the authority of winch the one now under
review was rendered by the court below That case involved,
as does this, the validity of an assignment under the Texas
statute just referred to, which was sought to be set aside on
account of a provision in the deed alleged to be not in conformity with that statute. The assignments in the two cases
are very similar, the main. difference being, that the one in
the Cunningham case contains two provisions, neither of which
occurs in the instrument under consideration. The first of
these provisions reserves to the assignor the surplus of the
property assigned after the payment of all the debts of
the consenting creditors. The second expressly authorizes the
assignee to sell such property on credit, according to his discretion. This last provision, however, was not called to the
attention of the court in that case. The main contention was,
that the deed in controversy was rendered void by the clause
directing the assignee to pay over to the assignor the surplus
after paying in full all the creditors who should accede to the
deed. This court decided that the said clause did not affect
the validity of the assignment, but was itself alone invalidated
by reason of its being in violation of the statute. The decision
was based upon the general construction of the whole act
taken together, in view of the main object designed to be subserved by it, and of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Texas upon many of its express provisions, in which line of
decisions the court indicated its full concurrence. That policy
the court declares to have been the appropriation of the entire
estate of an insolvent debtor to the payment of his debts, and
as a means thereto to favor assigmments, and to give them
such construction that they may stand rather than fall,
that its manifest purpose was to provide a mode by which an
insolvent debtor, desiring to do so, may make an assignment
simple and yet effective to pass all his property to an assignee
for the benefit of such of his creditors as will accept a proportionate share of the said property, and discharge him from their
claims, that it further manifests the intention to transfer to
the assignee all the property of the debtor for distribution
among all the creditors, that no act of the assignee or of the

MULLERt v. lORTOl .
Opinion of the Court.

assignor after the assignment is made, or preceding it, but in
contemplation of it, however fraudulent that act may be, shall
divest the right of the creditors to have the trust administered
for their benefit in accordance with the spirit of the statute,
and that, therefore, the provision reserving the surplus to the
debtor after payment of the debts to the consenting creditors,
even though conceded to be not in conformity with the requirements of the statute, and therefore itself void, does not vitiate
the assignment or prevent its execution for the benefit of the
creditors, as provided in the statute.
These principles apply with controlling force to the assignment in the case at bar. The ingenious argument of the
counsel has failed to point out any distinguishing features in
the two cases.
The first ground upon which this deed is assailed is the following clause therein. "The said Fred. M uller and A. Jacobs
are hereby authorized and directed to take possession at once
of all the property above conveyed, and convert the same into
cash as soon and upon the best terms possible for the best interest of our creditors," which language the court below and
the counsel for the defendants claim is an authority to the
assignee to sell upon credit. We do not think that such is a
correct or fair interpretation of the clause, taking the whole
instrument together and construing it with reference to the
purpose manifest in all its other provisions. A positive direc
tion to "convert" the property assigned "into cash as soon
and upon the best terms possible for the best interest of our
creditors," can hardly be construed into a discretionary authority to sell on credit, without doing violence to the wellestablished rule that the power to sell on credit will not be
inferred from language susceptible of a different construction.
I3urrill on Assignments, ยง 224.
But even if we concede that the construction contended for
be correct, and that the clause thus construed is in contravention of the statute, it will not, as this court has decided,
operate to annul the assignment in which all the creditors may
have an interest. In Jellogg & Co. v -Muller, 68 Texas, 182,
184, this very point we are now considering was presented and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

decided by the court in the following language "The first
exception to the deed is that it authorized the assignee to sell
the property assigned on a credit, and is, therefore, void. The
provision to which we are cited in support of the exception is
as follows: 'That so soon as said inventory is complete, the
said Frederick Muller, as such trustee aforesaid, shall thereafter, with all reasonable dispatch, proceed to sell and dispose
of said goods, wares and merchandise and furniture, and collect said book accounts and bills receivable, converting the
same into cash or its equivalent.' It may be doubted if this
can be construed to empower the assignee to sell for anything
But, however this may be, even if a
but money
badge of fraud, it is not sufficient to authorize the court to
hold the deed void upon its face," citing Baldwm v Peet,
22 Texas, 708.
In the assignment before us all the property conveyed by
it is in terms devoted to the payment of the creditors of the
insolvent debtor. The judgment of the court below adjudging
it to be void upon its face, because it permitted a sale on credit,
was erroneous.
The second objection, that the deed was not made to one
assignee, does not require any extended comment. Under the
common law an insolvent debtor was permitted to make an
assignment to a single individual or to several. Burrill on
Assignments, ยง 91. It is true the act of March 21, 1879, speaks
only of an asstgnee, but the statutory rule of construction in
force in Texas is "The singular and plural number shall each
include the other, unless otherwise expressly provided." Rev
Stat. of Texas (1879), Art. 3138, subdivision 4. Under this
rule, and keeping in mind the policy of the statute of 1879,
regulating assignments, we do not think the deed of assignment in this case void for the second reason assigned.
For the reasons gvven the decree of the court below ss reversed
and the case remanded,with directions to take such furthee
_proceedings as shall not be 'neonsistent wth this opnion.

