OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

County, illinots, the costs qf thts court to be pazd by the
IFirst2ationalBank of Chicago, thepetitionerfor removal.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIE
part in its decision.

FULLER did not sit in this case or take any

RICHMOND v. BLARE.
ERROR TO THE CIRUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Wo. 171. Argued December 20,1889.-Decided January 6,1890.

The plaintiff had a place of business, indicated by a sign over the door,
where his mail matter was received, and where he could be met by his
clients, and where the latter could deliver to him stocks to be sold by
him or under his supervision, and he was engaged there in the business
of buying and selling stocks for his customers, in which business he
regularly employed capital, by the use of which interest was earned upon
moneys advanced by him for his customers; Held, that he was a
"banker" within the meaning of that term as used in Rev. Stat. § 3407
and subject to taxation as such under the provisions of § 3408.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
2fr H7enry E. Tr'emaim (with whom was X&
Tyler on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

1ason i

r

Xr Aiphonso Hart, Solicitor of Internal Revenue (with
whom was Air Solictor General on the brief) for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought to recover certain sums of money
paid under protest by the plaintiff m error to the United States
in the years 1881, 1882 and 1883, and which he alleged -were
exacted from him under an illegal assessment made upon capital employed in his business.
If within the meaning of the statutes under which the assess-

RICHM[OND v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

ment was made the plaintiff was a banker, and if the capital
assessed was employed in the business of banking, the judgment must be affirmed.
By section 3407 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
it is provided that 11every incorporated or other bank, and
every person, firm or company having a place of business
where credits are opened by the deposit or collection of money
or currency, subject to be paid or remitted upon draft, check,
or order, or where money is advanced or loaned on stocks,
bonds, bullion, bills of exchange or promissory notes or where
stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange or promissory notes
are received for discount or for sale, shall be regarded as a
bank or a banker." 13 Stat. 251, c. 173, § 79, 14 Stat. 115,

c. 184, § 9.
Section 3408 provides that there shall be levied, collected
and paid a tax of one twenty-fourth of one per centum each
month upon the average amount of the deposits of money,
subject to payment by check or draft, or represented by certificates of deposit or otherwise, whether payable on demand or
at some future day, with any person, bank, association, company or corporation, engaged in the business of banking; also
"a tax of one twenty-fourth of one per centum each month
upon the capital of any bank, association, company, corporation, and on the capital employed by any person in the business of banking beyond the average amount invested in United
States bonds Provwded, That the words ' capital employed'
shall not include money borrowed or received from day to
day, in the usual course of business, from any person not a
partner of, or interested in the said bank, association or finn."
13 Stat. 277, c. 173, § 110, 14 Stat. 137, 146, c. 184, § 9, 17
Stat. 256, c. 315, § 37, 18 Stat. 311, c. 36, § 19.
That the plaintiff, during the period covered by the assessment against him, employed a capital in his business is beyond
dispute, for he distinctly states that the capital used by him
in his business ranged from $30,000 to $50,000. Upon that
basis he made his returns for taxation. But did he, during
that period, have a place of business where stocks were received for sale 2 If he did, then, by the very terms of the
VOL. cxXXi--38

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, he was a banker under the definition given in section
3407.
It is contended by him that he was only a stock broker, and,
within the true meaning of section 3407, did not have "a place
of business," nor "receive " stocks for sale. That he had a
room or place, indicated by a sign over the door, where his
mail matter was received, and where he was, or could be, met
by his clients, and where the latter could deliver stocks to be
sold by him, or under his supervision, and that he bought and
sold stocks for his customers, is abundantly shown by his own
testimony 1 Still, he insists that when stocks were delivered
I His testimony occupies many pages of the record. The substance of
what he said is shown in the following extracts. On his examination in chief
he stated. "Iy place of business is 33 New Street; during the years 1881
and 1882 and 1883 my business was that of a stock broker; according to my
understanding, that is a well-defined avocation, it consisted in buying and
selling stocks for customers, and carrying them by borrowing money for
customers to carry those stocks on, that occupation was carried on by a
great many members of the New York Stock Exchange; there are some
bankers in the Stock Exchange, but the business carried on there, as a rule,
is that of stock brokers."
Upon cross-examination he stated. "I have a sign on the door which has
been there four or five years. It reads, David Richmond, Stock Broker.'
If a customer came into my office to buy stock he would give me an order
and hand me a margin to protect me against loss for the purchase; then the
next day, when the stock was delivered to me, I would borrow money to
pay for it. This is a regular purchase; sometimes customers pay in full
for stock. We seldom book orders; we buy stock on the stock board,
sometimes receiving the margin and sometimes not. We receive certificates
purchased on the stock board, as a rule, next day. It is sent to my office by
the seller, and he receives a check in payment, drawn on the Leather lIanufacturers' Bank against a deposit I keep there; that deposit is, as a rile,
my own money. Q. Your capital? A. A portion of it, not always. Q.
How much capital did you have in your business at that time? A. I have
forgotten; it was nothing like $300,000 it ranged from 830,000 to $50,000.
It was on that capital that I made the return for taxation. I had in business
that amount. It was on that return that I was taxed one twenty-fourth of
one per cent per month, and it is to recover back that tax that this suit is
brought.
Q. Do you keep an open account with your customers?
A. I do. Q. On your ledger? A. Yes. Q. Do you credit him with the
amount of the margin which you receive? A. We credit him with the
amount; if it is money he receives credit for it; if it is securities, he
receives credit, of course, for that. Q. Do you charge him with the cost

RICHMOND v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

to him at this place of business for sale they were not "received" by him "for sale," within the meaning of the statute.
We cannot assent to this new
price of the stock purchased pursuant to his order? A. I do. Q. And
do you charge him with the interest on the difference between the cost
price of the stocks and the amount of his margin? A. I do. Q. How is
your difference settled? A. He receives interest on the amount placed
.to his credit, and is charged interest on the amount placed to his debit,
wich is practically the same. You asked me the way in which it is
done, I understand? Q. Then, instead of deducting the lesser number from
the larger number, and then calculating the interest charge to be made to the
customer, you make two calculations, debiting one and crediting the other?
A. Exactly so. Q. And that interest is charged against him up to what
time? A. No stated time; it depends upon whether the stock is sold or not,
or whether it is paid for afterwards by imm-taken up. Q. It is charged to
him up to the time that ieeither closes outhis account or - A. Settledinfull.
Q. That may be done either by selling out the stock which you hold or by
paying the amount charged againsthim on yourbooks as the purchase money'
A. Yes." " Q. Now, you have described the manner of doing business on
orders to purchase; won't you please tell the jury about the manner of doing
business when you receive orders to sell? A. Sometimes a customermay write
us from the country to sell stock, and then he says he will forward it by mail
when sold; another time he may inclose it with the order; another time a
customer will come into the office with a certificate and say sell this:'
another time he may come in and say, ' sell this and I will deliver the certificate to-morrow, and so on. I sell the stock, and when the time to deliver
it to the broker or buyer arrives I deliver it and receive his check for it.
If the seller wants the money I give it to him, If he does not want it lie
may leave the money there over night, or two or three days, but that would
be only incidental to the business. It isn't my line of business to receive
money in that way- it is an incident of the business. When it is left with
me the customer in the country does not make a draft on me; I almost invariably send him my own check. Q. How as to the sale of the stock?
A customer comes in with a certificate and asks you to sell it, describe the
entire transaction. A. I go up to the board and sell it; I pay him sometimes that day, sometimes the next, but very rarely indeed when he delivers
the certificate of stock. I keep the certificate in the office-until I go to the
board to sell stock; sometimes until the next day; sometimes I borrow money
on it over mght. I keep it in the drawer, or in the safe, on in the desk, it is
paid for with money in the bank to my credit by my personal check. In tie
case of the country customer who sends an order to sell, stating that he
will forward the certificate of stock by mail, or as soon as required, I sell
the stock and notify him of the sale; then probably he sends me the certificate. I don't send him the money for that certificate before I receive it.
This order to sell would probably be sent to my place of business. In the

OCTOBER TERMN,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

In support of this position ,the plaintiff cites Warren v.
Shook, 91 U S. '704, and Selden. v Equdable Trust Co., 94:
U S. 419. In the first of those cases the question was
whether a firm, holding a special license as bankers, was liable to the tax imposed by section 99 of the act of June 30,
1864. 13 Stat. 273. That statute imposed a tax of one twentieth of one per centum upon the par value of stock and bonds
sold by "brokers and bankers doing business as brokers." It
case of a short sale' it was just the reverse of the purchase business; I sell
it, and when the time comes for delivery I borrow the stock of another
broker. Q. You tell your broker friend or business acquaintance that you
want to get one hundred shares of Lake Shore, for instance? A. I would
tell a friend that I wanted to borrow one hundred shares of Lake Shore,
and he says, All right; you can have it. He sends it down to my office in
a short time, and I pay him for it; I pay him the market price with money
to my credit in the bank, the customer who has ordered the short sale may
have sent me money or may not have; he may have given me stock as margm or other security. Q. He is credited on that amount of margin, is he?
A. He is when we get it. Q. On your books is he debited with anything?
A. He is not. Then he gets a credit for the amount of stock that is
sold, the amount of money received for it, and we charge him for whatever is paid for the use of the stock, the general custom is to charge for
the use of the stock. Stocks might be running flat; he is credited with
the interest on his margin, the transaction might be closed at any time
by the purchase of the stock for and on account of the customer. On our
books he would be charged with the cost of the stock as bought on the
board, with commission. Our letting the account stand would depend altogether on the price the stock was bought at and the price it was sold at. Q.
Assuming that there had been an advance in the stock market pending the
borrowing and the sale pursuant to the original order, and the purchase made
for the purpose of closing the transaction, how would the books stand? A.
The customer might have bought stock at another office, and bring it in.
You cannot figure on those things, except on the actual facts at the time.
Suppose, for instance, the stocks were sold for ninety and bought back at
ninety-five, that would show a loss of about $525, on the supposition that
nothing was paid for the use of the stock. His margin would then be encroached upon by just the amount of the difference between the original
price sold for and the price paid by us on closing it and the commissions and
whatever we had to pay for the use of the stock. If, on the contrary, there
had been a profit to the customer, we would be in his debt then the amount
of the margin deposited and the amount of his profit; we would have that
to his credit, almost invariably ]ie would be given a check for it; if he saw
fit to make his draft upon us, that could be done, of course, but they did not
do it; if he did make his draft'I should honor it."

RICHMOND v. BLAKE.
Opimon of the Court.

was held that Congress intended to impose the duty prescribed
by section 99 upon bankers doing business as brokers, although
a person, firm or company, having a license as a banker, might
be exempted by subdivision mine of section 79 of the act of
1864, as amended by the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 472,
from paying the special tax imposed upon brokers. Nothing
more is decided in that case.
In Selden v Equitable T5rust Co., the question was whether
corporations whose business was to invest their own capital
- not that of others-in bonds secured by mortgage upon
real estate, and to negotiate, sell and guarantee such bonds,
were banks or bankers within the meaning of section 3407 of
the IRevised Statutes. It was held that they were not, that
Congress did not intend that a person or corporation selling
its own property, not that received from other owners for sale,
should be classed as a banker or bank for the purposes of taxation. The court, m that case, referred to section 3407 as describing three distinct classes of artificial and natural persons,
distinguished by the nature of their business, first, those who
have a place of business wnere credits are opened by the
deposit or collection of money or currency, subject to be paid
or remitted upon draft, check or order, second, those having
a place of business where money is advanced or loaned on
stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange or promissory notes,
third, those having a place of business where stocks, bonds,
bullion, bills of exchange, or promissory notes are received for
discount or for sale. In respect to the third class it was said.
"The language of the statute is, 'where' such property is
Creceived'
for discount or for sale.' The use of the word
'received' is significant. In no proper sense can it be understood that one receives his own stocks and bonds, or bills or
notes, for discount or for sale. He receives the bonds, bills,
or notes belonging to him as evidences of debt, though he may
sell them afterwards. Nobody would understand that to be
banking business. But when a corporation or natural person
receives from another person, for discount, bills of exchange
or promissory notes belonging to that other, he is acting as a
banker, and when a customer brings bonds, bullion or stocks

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

for sale, and they are received for the purpose for which they
are brought, that is, to be sold, the case is presented which we
think was contemplated by the statute. In common understanding, he who receives goods for sale is one who receives
them as agent for a principal who is the owner. He is not
one who buys and gells on his own account."
This language embraces the present case. The plaintiff was
not a broker who, without employing capital of his own,
simply negotiated purchases and sales of stocks for others,
receiving only the usual commissions for services of that character. In his business of buying and selling stocks for others,
he regularly employed capital, by the use of which interest
was earned upon moneys advanced by him for his customers,
substantially as it would be earned by a bank upon money
loaned to its customers. In the parlance of the Stock Exchange, he might be called a stock broker; yet, here were all
the conditions, which, under the statute, made the case of a
banker, whose capital, employed in his business, was liable to
a tax of one twenty-fourth of one per centum each month.
It is not a sufficient answer to this view to say that the business of a stock broker is ordinarily distinct from the business
of a banker, or that according to the common understanding
a stock broker is not a banker. A stock broker may do some
of the kinds of business that are usually done by bankers, and
many banks and bankers do business which, as a general rule,
is only done by stock brokers. Congress did not intend that
the question of taxation upon capital employed in the business
of banking, should depend upon the mere name given to such
business, either by those engaged in it or by others. When
the plaintiff admits, as he does, that his business was that of
buying and selling stocks for his customers, and that in such
business he employed capital, he proves that he was a banker
within the statutory definition, and that, within the meaning
of section 3408, his capital was employed in the business of
banking. He brings himself within the rule that Congress
prescribed for determining who, for the purToses of the taxation n question - though not necessarily in the commercial
sense -were bankers and what was banking business. That

