CASES ADJUDGED
n

TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.

METROPOLITAN

RAILROAD COMPANY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

ERROR TO

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 5. Argued November 22, 188. -Decided

October 21,1889.

The District of Columbia is a municipal corporation, having a right to sue
and be sued, and is subject to the ordinary rules that govern the law of
procedure between private persons.
The Marylaud statute of limitations of 1715, which is in force m the District of Columbia, embraces municipal corporations.
The sovereign power of the District of Columbia is lodged in the government of the United States, and not in the corporation of the District.
This court expresses no opinion upon the question whether, when the right
of property in highways and public places is vested in a municipality, an
assertion of that right against purprestures or public nuisances is subject to the law of limitations.
An action by a municipal corporation to recover from a street railroad company the cost of maintaining pavements in a street, which the company
is, by its charter, bound to maintain, is not an action upon the statute,
but one in assumpsit.

AssuMPsIT. Verdict for the plaintiff, and 3udgment on the
verdict. The defendant sued out this writ of error. The case
is stated in the opinion.

2& .. athantel Witson and -Mr Walter ). Davzdge for plaintiff in error.
VOL. OXxxii-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr Henry E. Davw and -M A. G 1?ddk for defendant
m error.
MR.JusTioE

BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by the District of Columbia in
November, 1880, to recover from the Metropolitan Railroad
Company the sum of $161,622.52. The alleged cause of action
was work done and materials furnished by the plaintiff in paving certain streets and avenues m the city of Washington at
various times in the years 1871, 1872, 1873, 1874, and 1875,
upon and in consequence of the neglect of the defendant to do
said work and furnish said materials in accordance with its
duty as prescribed by its charter.
The defendant was chartered by an act of Congress dated
July 1, 1864-, 13 Stat. 326, c. 190, and amended March 3,
1865, 13 Stat. 536, c. 119. By these acts it was authorized
to construct and operate lines or routes of double track railways in designated streets and avenues in Washington and
Georgetown.
The first section of the charter contains the following proviso "Provided, that the use and maintenance of said road
shall be subject to the municipal regulations of the city of
Washington within its corporate limits." Of course this provision reserves police control over the road and its operations
on the part of the authorities of the city The fourth section
of the charter declares, "that the said corporation hereby
created shall be bound to keep said tracks, and for the space
of two feet beyond the outer rail thereof, and also the space
between the tracks, at all times well paved and in good order,
without expense to the United States or to the city of Washington." The fifth section declares "that nothing in this act
shall prevent the government at any time, at their option,
from altering the grade or otherwise improving all avenues
and streets occupied by said roads, or the city of Washington
from so altering or improving such streets and avenues, and the
sewerage thereof, as may be under their respective authority
and control, and in such event it shall be the duty of said

METROPOLITAN R'D v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

3

Opinion of the Court.

company to change their said railroad so as to conform to
such grade and pavement."
It is on these provisions that the claim of the city is based.
The amended declaration sets out in great detail the grading and paving which were done in various streets and avenueg
along and adjoining the tracks of the defendant, and which it is
averred should have been done by the defendant under the
provisions of its charter, but which the defendant neglected
and refused to do.
The defendant filed twelve several pleas to the action, the
eleventh and twelfth being pleas of the statute of limitations.
Issue was taken upon all the pleas except these two, and they
were demurred to. The court sustained the demurrer, and
the cause was tried on the other issues, and a verdict found
for the plaintiff. 4 Mackey, 214.
The case is brought here by writ of error, which brings up
for consideration a bill of exceptions taken at the trial, and
the ruling upon the demurrer to the pleas of the statute of
limitations. It is conceded that if the court below erred in
sustaining that demurrer, the judgment must be reversed.
That question will, therefore, be first considered.
It is contended by the plaintiff that it (the District of
Columbia) is not amenable to the statute of limitations, for
three reasons: first, because of its dignity as partaking of the
sovereign power of government, secondly, because it is not
embraced in the terms of the statute of limitations in force in
the District, and, thirdly, because if the general words of the
statute are sufficiently broad to include the District, still,
municipal corporations, unless specially mentioned, are not
subject to the statute.
1. The first question, therefore, will be, whether the District
of Columbia is, or is not, a municipal body merely, or whether
it has such a sovereign character, or is so identified with or
representative of the sovereignty of the United States as to be
entitled to the prerogatives and exemptions of sovereignty
In order to a better understanding of the subject under consideration, it will be proper to take a brief survey of the government of the District and the changes it has undergone
since its first organization.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Prior to 1871, the local government of the District of
Columbia, on the east side of the Potomac, had been divided
between the corporations of Washington and Georgetown and
the Levy Court of the county of Washington. Georgetown
had been incorporated by the legislature of Maryland as early
as 1789, (Davis's Laws, Dist. Col. 478,) as Alexandria had been
by the legislature of Virginia, as early as 1148 and 1779
(Davis's Laws, 533, 541), and those towns or cities were
clearly nothing more than ordinary municipal corporations,
with the usual powers of such corporations. When the government of the United States took possession of the District
in December, 1800, it was divided by Congress into two counties, that of Alexandria on the west side of the Potomac, and
that of Washington on the east side, and the laws of Virginia
were continued over the former, and the laws of Maryland
over the latter, and a court, called the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia, was established with general jurisdiction, civil and criminal, to hold sessions alternately in each
county; but the corporate rights of the cities of Alexandria
and Georgetown, and of all other corporate bodies, were
expressly left unimpaired, except as related to judicial powers.
See Act of Feb. 27, 1801, 2 Stat. 103, c. 15. A supplementary act, passed a few days later, gave to the Circuit Court
certain administrative powers, the same as those vested in the
County and Levy Courts of Virginia and Maryland respectively, and it was declared that the magistrates to be appointed should be a board of commissioners within their
respective counties, and have the same powers and perform
the same duties, as the Levy Courts of Maryland. These
powers related to the construction and repair of roads,
bridges, ferries, the care of the poor, &c. Act of March 3,
1801, 2 Stat. 115, c. 25. On May 3, 1802, an act was passed
to incorporate the city of Washington.
2 Stat. 195, c. 53.
It invested the mayor and common council (the latter being
elected by the white male inhabitants) with all the usual
powers of municipal bodies, such as the power to pass by-laws
and ordinances, powers of administration, regulation and taxation, amongst others specially named, the power "to erect and

METROPOLITAN R'D v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

5

Opinion of the Court.

repair bridges, to keep in repair all necessary streets, avenues,
drams, and sewers, and to pass regulations necessary for the
preservation of the same, agreeably to the plan of said city"
Various amendments, from time to time, were made to this
charter, and additional powers were conferred. A general
revision of it was made by act of Congress passed May 15,
1820. 3 Stat. 583, c. 104. A further revision was made and
additional powers were given by the act of May 17, 1848, 9
Stat. 223, c. 42, but nothing to change the essential character of the corporation.
The powers of the Levy Court extended more particularly to
the country, outside of the cities, but also to some matters in
the cities common to the whole county It was reorganized,
and its powers and duties more specifically defined, in the
acts of July 1st, 1812, 2 Stat. 771, c. 117, and of March 3d,
1863, 12 Stat. 799. By the last act, the members of the
court were to be nine in number, and to be appointed by the
President and Senate.
In the first year of the war, August 6th, 1861, 12 Stat.
320, c. 62, an act was passed " to create a Metropolitan Police
District of the District of Columbia, and to establish a Police
therefor." The police had previously been appointed and
regulated by the mayor and common council of Washington,
but it was now deemed important that it should be under the
control of the government. The act provided for the appointment of five commissioners by the President and Senate,
who, together with the. mayors of Washington and Georgetown, were to form the board of police for the District, and
this board was invested with extraordinary powers of surveillance and guardianship of the peace.
This general review of the form of government which prevailed in the District of Columbia and city of Washington
prior to 1871 is sufficient to show that it was strictly municipal in its character, and that the govQrnment of the United
States, except so far as the protection of its own public buildings and property was concerned, took no part in the local
government, any more than any state government interferes
with the municipal administration of its cities. The officers

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Opinon of the Court.

of the departments, even the President himself, exercised no
local authority in city affairs. It is true, in consequence of
the large property interests of the United States in Washington, in the public parks and buildings, the government always
made some contribution to the finances of the city, but the
residue was raised by taxing the inhabitants of the city and
District, just as the inhabitants of all municipal bodies are
taxed.
In 181 an important modification was made in the form of
the District government, a legislature was established, with
all the apparatus of a distinct government. By the act of
February 21st, of that year, entitled "An Act to provide a
Government for the District of Columbia," 16 Stat. 419, c.
62, it was enacted (ยง 1) that all that part of the territory of
the United States included within the limits of the District of
Columbia be created into a government by the name of the
District of Columbia, by which name it was constituted "a
body corporatefor mun'czpal _pmoses," with power to make
contracts, sue and be sued, and "to exercise all other powers
of a municipal corporation not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States." A governor and legislature were created, also a board of public works, the latter
to consist of the governor as its president, and four other
persons, to be appointed by the President and Senate. To
this board was given the control and repair of the streets,
avenues, alleys and sewers of the city of Washington, and all
other works which might be intrusted to their charge by the
legislative assembly or Congress. They were empowered to
disburse the moneys raised for the improvement of streets,
avenues, alleys and sewers, and roads and bridges, and to
assess upon adjoining property, specially benefited thereby, a
reasonable proportion of the cost, not exceeding one-third.
The acts of this board were held to be binding on the municipality of the District in Barnes v. _Dwrzd of Columbta, 91
U. S. 540. It was regarded as a mere branch of the District
government, though appointed by the President and not subject to the control of the District authorities.
This constitution lasted until June 20th, 1874, when an act

METROPOLITAN R'D v. DIST. OF COLUIIBIA.
Opinion of the Court.

was passed entitled " An act for the government of the District of Columbia, and for other purposes." 18 Stat. 116, c.
337. By this act the government established by the act of
1871 was.abolished, and the President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, was authorized to appoint a commission, consisting of three persons, to exercise the power and
authority then vested in the governor and board of public
works, except as afterwards limited by the act. By a subsequent act, approved June 11th, 1878, 20 Stat. 102, c. 180,
it was enacted that the District of Columbia should "remrna
and contnue a munsmpal corporation," as provided in ยง 2

of the Revised Statutes relating to said District, and the
appointment of commissioners was provided for, to have and
to exercise sunilar powers given to the commissioners appointed under the act of 1874. All rights of action and suits
for and against the District were expressly preserved in
8tatu quo.

Under these different changes the administration of the
affairs of the District of Columbia and city of Washington
has gone on in much the same way, except a change m the
depo sitaries of power, and in the extent and number of powers
conferred upon them. Legislative powers have now ceased,
and the municipal government is confined to mere administration. The identity of corporate existence is continued, and
all actions and suits for and against the District are preserved
unaffected by the changes that have occurred.
In view of these laws, tue counsel of the plaintiff contend
that the government of the District of Columbia is a department of the United States government, and that the corporation is a mere name, and not a person in the sense of the
law, distinct from the government itself. We cannot assent
to thns view It is contrary to the express language of the
statutes. That language is that the District shall "remain
and continue a municipal corporation," with all rights of
action and suits for and against it. If it were a department
of the government, how could it be sued 2 Can the Treasury
Department be sued29 or any other department 2 We are of
opinion (that the corporate capacity and corporate liabilities

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

of the District of Columbia remain as before, and that its
character as a mere municipal corporation has not been
changed. The mode of appointing its officers does not abrogate its character as a municipal body politic. We do not
suppose that it is necessary to a municipal government, or to
municipal responsibility, that the officers should be elected by
the people. Local self-government is undoubtedly desirable
where there are not forcible reasons against its exercise. But
it is not required by any inexorable principle. All municipal
governments are but agencies of the superior power of the
State or government by which they are constituted, and are
invested with only such subordinate powers of local legislation
and control as the superior legislature sees fit to confer upon
them. The form of those agencies and the mode of appointing officials to execute them are matters of legislative discretion. Commissioners are not unfrequently appointed by
the legislature or executive of a State for the administration
of municipal affairs, or some portion thereof, sometimes temporarily, sometimes permanently It may be demanded by
motives of expediency or the exigencies of the situation, by
the boldness of corruption, the absence of public order and
security, or the necessity of high executive ability in dealing
with particular populations. Such unusual constitutions do
not release the people from the duty of obedience or from taxation, or the municipal body from those liabilities to which
such bodies are ordinarily subject. Protection of life and
property are enjoyed, perhaps in greater degree, than they
could be, in such cases, under elective magistracies, and the
government of the whole people is preserved in the legislative representation of the State or general government.
"Nor can it in principle," said Mr. Justice Iunt in the Barnes
case, "be of the slightest consequence by what means these
several officers are placed in their position, whether they are
elected by the people of the municipality or appointed 'by the
President or a governor. The people are the recognized
source of all authority, State and municipal, and to this authority it must come at last, whether immediately or by a
circuitous process." Barnes v. Dzstrsot of 6'olumbwm, 91 U. S.
540, 545.

METROPOLITAN R'D v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

9

Opinon of the Court.

One argument of the plaintiff's counsel in this connection is,
that the District of Columbia is a separate State or sovereignty
according to the definition of writers on public law, being a
distinct political society Tlns position is assented to by Chief
Justice Marshall, speaking for this court, in the case of Hpburn v Ellzey, 2 Cranch, 445, 452, where the question was
whether a citizen of the District could sue in the circuit courts
of the United States as a citizen of a State. The court did not
deny that the District of Columbia is a State in the sense of
being a distinct political community, but held that the word
"State" in the Constitution, where it extends the judicial
power to cases between citizens of the several "States," refers
to the States of the Union. It is undoubtedly true that the
District of Columbia is a separate political community in a
certain sense, and in that sense may be called a State,
but the sovereign power of this qualified State is not lodged
in the corporation of the District of Columbia., but in the
government of the United States. Its supreme legislative
body is Congress. The subordinate legislative powers of a
mumcipal character which have been or may be lodged in the
city corporations. or in the District corporation, do not make
those bodies sovereign. Crimes committed in the District are
not crimes against the District, but against the United States.
Therefore, whilst the District may, in a sense, be called a State,
it is such in a very qualified sense. No more than tins was
meant by Chief Justice Taney, when, in the Bank of Alx
andrza v. Dyer, 14 Pet. 141, 146, he spoke of the District of
Columbia as being formed, by the acts of Congress, into one
separate political community, and of the two counties composing it (Washington and Alexandria) as resembling different
counties in the same State, by reason whereof it was held that
parties residing in one county could not be said to be "beyond
the seas," or in a different jurisdiction, in reference to the other
county, though the two counties were subject to different laws.
We are clearly of opinion that the plaintiff is a municipal
corporation, having a right to sue and be sued, and subject to
the ordinary rules that govern the law of procedure between
private persons.

OCTOBER TERM\,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

2. But the Supreme Court of the District supposes that municipal corporations are not embraced in the words of the
statute of limitations. Let us see whether that view can be
maintained.
The statute in force in the District is that of Maryland,
passed in 11115, c. 23. The act, as regards personal actions, is substantially the same as that of 21 James I. It
commences with a preamble, as follows
"Forasmuch as
nothing can be more essential to the peace and tranquillity of
this province than the quieting the estates of the inhabitants
thereof, and for the effecting of which no better measures can
be taken than a limitation of time for the commencing of such
actions as in the several and respective courts within this province are brought, from the time of the cause of such actions accrmng." It is then enacted, "that all actions of trespass quare
clamum fregit, all actions of trespass, detinue, sur trover, or
replevin,
all actions of account, contract, debt, book,
or upon the case,
all actions of debt for lending, or
contract without specialty,
shall be sued or brought
by any person or persons within this province,
shall
be commenced or sued within the time and limitation hereafter
expressed, and not after, that is to say, the said actions of
account, and the said actions upon the case, upon simple contract,
and the said actions for debt, detinue, and
replevin
within three years ensuing the ,cause of
such action, and not after , "
1 Kilty's Laws, April,
1715, c. 23. There is nothing in any part of the act to
restrain the generality of this language "all [enumerated]
actions sued or brought by any person or persons within this
province,
shall be commenced within three years."
Corporations are "persons" in the law There is no apparent
reason why they should not be included in the statute. It is
conceded that private corporations are included. On what
ground, then, can municipal corporations be excluded? Not
on the ground that they are not "persons," for that would
exclude private corporations. They are, therefore, within the
terms of the law
3. Are they not also within the spirit and reason of the law 2

METROPOLITAN R'D v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

11

Opinion of the Court.
They are certainly within the reason of the preamble. It is
just as much for the public interest and tranquillity that municipal corporations should be limited in the time of bringing suits
as that individuals or private corporations should be. The
reason stated m the preamble for the passage of the law
applies to all, and, moreover, it shows that the objects of the
law are beneficent ones, and, therefore, that it should be liberally construed. It cannot apply to the sovereign power, of
course. No restrictive laws apply to the sovereign, unless so
expressed. And especially no laws affecting a right on the
ground of neglect or laches, because neglect and laches cannot
be imputed to him. And it matters not whether the sovereign
be an individual monarch, or a republic or state. The principle applies to all sovereigns. The reason usually assigned
for this prerogative is, that the sovereign is not answerable for
the delinquencies of his agents. But whatever the true reason
may be, such is the general law-such the universal law,
except where it is expressly waived. The privilege, however,
is a prerogative one, and cannot be challenged by any person
inferior to the sovereign, whether that person be natural or
corporate.
It is scarcely necessary to discuss further the question of the
applicability of the statute of limitations to a purely municipal
corporation when it is embraced within the general terms of
the law It was expressly decided to be applicable in the
cases of EJennebunkport v Smth, 22 Maine, 445, Cincznnati
v. First Presbyterian Church, 8 Ohio, 298, Cincinnati v
Evans, 5 Ohio St. 594, St. Charles County v Powell, 22 Missouri, 525, Armstrong v Dalton, 4 Devereux, (Law,) 568, and
other cases cited in the notes to Wood on Limitations, ยง 53,
and to 2 Dillon on Municipal Corporations, ยง 668, 3d ed.
Judge Dillon, in the section last cited, accurately says "The
doctrine is well understood, that to the sovereign power
the maxim, 'nullumr, tempus occurrit regz,' applies, and that
the United States and the several States are not, without express words, bound by statutes of limitation. Although mumcipal corporations are considered as public agencies, exercising,
in behalf of the State, public duties, there are many cases which

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

hold that such corporations are not exempt from the operation
of limitation statutes, but that such statutes, at least as respects
all real and personal actions, run in favor of and against these
corporations in the same manner and to the same extent as
against natural persons." In Evans v. Erze County, 66 Penn. St.
222, 228, Sharswood, J., says "That the statute of limitations
runs against a county or other municipal corporation, we think,
cannot be doubted. The prerogative is that of the sovereign
alone; nullum ternpus occurrit rezpublicae.

Her grantees,

though artificial bodies created by her, are in the same category with natural persons." See also Dundee -Harbour
Tr-ustees v Dougall, 1 Mlacqueen H. L. Gas. 317. But we
forbear to quote further authorities on the subject. We hold
the doctrine to be well settled.
What may be the rule in regard to purprestures and public
nuisances, by encroachments upon the highways and other
public places, it is not necessary to determine. They are generally offences against the sovereign power itself, and, as such,
no length of time can protect them. Where the right of
property in such places is vested in the municipality, an assertion of that right may or may not be subject to the law of
limitations. We express no opinion on that point, since it
may be affected by considerations which are not involved in
the present case.
The court below, in its opinion on the demurrer, suggests
another ground, having relation to the form of the action, on
which it is supposed that the plea of the statute of limitations
m this case is untenable. It is this, that the action is founded
on a statute, and that the statute of limitations does not apply
to actions founded on statutes or other records, or specialties,
but only to such as are founded on sunple contract or on tort.
We think, however, that the court is in error in supposing
that the present action is founded on the statute. It is an
action on the case upon an implied assumpsit arising out of
the defendant's breach of a duty imposed by statute, and the
required performance of that duty by the plaintiff in consequence. This raised an implied- obligation on the part of the
defendant to reimburse and pay to the plaintiff the moneys

METROPOLITAN R'D v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

13

Opmion of the Court.

expended in that behalf. The action is founded on tins
implied obligation, and not on the statute, and is really an
action of assumpsit. The fact that the duty which the defendant failed to perform was a statutory one, does not make the
The action is clearly one of
action one upon the statute.
those described in the statute of limitations. The case of
Carrollv Green, 92 U. S. 509, is strongly in point. That was
a bill against stockholders of an insolvent bank to enforce
their liability for double the amount of their stock, according
to the provisions of the charter. It was held by this court,
that the liability of the stockholders arose from their acceptance of the charter, and their implied promise to fulfil its
requirements, and that the legal remedy to enforce it was an
action on the case, to which the statute of limitations would
apply, and, hence, that it applied to a bill in equity founded
on the same obligation. To the same effect is the case of
Beatty's AdrImtnstratorsv Burnes's Adm-nmstrators, 8 ranch,
98, where an action for money had and received was brought,
under the Maryland act of 1791, against a party who had
received from the United States payment for land situated in
the District, which land was claimed by the plaintiff to belong
to him. This court held that, inasmuch as the form of the
action was covered by the statute of limitations of Maryland,
it could be pleaded in. bar, notwithstanding the action was
given by the statute of 1791. So, in _Mc luny v. Silliman, 3
Pet. 270, 277, it was held that the statute of limitations of
Ohio was pleadable to an action on the case brought against a
receiver of the land office to recover damages for his refusing
to enter the plaintiff's application in the books of his office
for certain lands in his district. It was contended that such a
case could not have been contemplated by the legislature, but
the court held that the action was within the terms of the
statute, and that this was sufficient. Many more cases might
be cited to the same point, but it is wholly unnecessary
The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded,
with directons to enter judgment for the d1fendant on the
demurrer to the pZleas of the statute of limitatons; and it
s so ordered.

