OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

AVERY v. CLEARY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 162. Argued December 13,1889. -Decided January 6, 1890.
On the facts, as stated in the opinion of the court, it is held, that this
suit is one between an assignee in bankruptcy and one claiming an
adverse interest touching the property which is the subject of controversy, within the meaning of Rev. Stat. ยง 5057, prescribing a limitation
for the commencement of such an action.
The omission by a bankrupt to put upon his schedules, or the omission by
him or by his administrator to disclose to his assignee in bankruptcy the
existence of policies of insurance on his life winch had been taken out
by him, and had, before the bankruptcy, been assigned to a trustee for
the benefit of his daughters, does not amount to a fraudulent concealment
of the existence of the policies, so as to take an action against the
admimstrator (who was also guardian of the daughters) to recover from
him the amount of insurance paid to him as administrator, out of the
operation of the limitation prescribed in Rev. Stat. ยง 5057.
Mere ignorance of the existence of a cause of action by an assignee in
bankruptcy does not remove the bar against such action prescribed by a
statute of limitation, but, in order to set aside such bar, within the rule
as announced in Bailey v. Glover 21 Wall. 342, there must be no laches
on the part of the assignee in coming to the knowledge of the fraud
which is the foundation of the suit.

IN the year 1867, the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance
Company issued three policies of insurance upon the life
of Matthias Ellis, numbered respectively 68,428, 68,429 and
68,430, the first two being for $10,000 each, and the last for
$5000. Each policy was payable to the executors, administrators and assigns of the assured, upon proof of his death.
On the 19th of May, 1877, the assured, in writing, transferred and assigned these policies, and all profits, dividends,
non-forfeiture policies, money or other property that might
arise from or be paid for or on account of them, tq E. Rollins
Morse, in trust, to pay the income, profits, or proceeds thereof
to his two daughters, fHelena and Marie. This assignment
was lodged with the insurance company, though it does not
clearly appear by whom, nor when, except that it must have
been prior to March 1, 1879.

AVERY v. CLEARY.
Statement of the Case.

Ellis filed, July 3, 1878, in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Kentucky, his petition in bankruptcy,
and, having been adjudged a bankrupt, his estate was transferred by the register to Horace W Bates, who acted as
assignee until May, 1882. He was succeeded by the present
defendant in error.
The schedules in bankruptcy made no mention of the above
policies of insurance.
On the 1st day of March, 1879, policy 68,430 was surrendered to the company for the sum of $1054, which amount
was applied in payment as well of the premiums due in that
year on policies 68,428 and 68,429 as of future premiums, in
cancellation of premium note or credit, and in discharge of the
accrued interest on that note. The receipt showing the details
of this transaction was signed by Ellis, and by Morse as trustee.
The bankrupt died November 21, 1879, and on the 31st of
December m the same year the company paid to his administrator, the plaintiff in error, (he being also the guardian of the
children of the assured,) the sum of $9390.43, the proceeds of
policy 68,428, and $258.21 the balance of the surrender value
of policy 68,430.
The present action was brought September 30, 1882, by the
assignee in bankruptcy to recover from Ellis' administrator the
sums so received by the latter. It proceeds upon the ground
that the policies constituted part of the bankrupt's estate, and
passed to his assignee. The declaration alleges that the existence of the policies was concealed and withheld from the
assignee, and remained in Ellis' possession and control until
his death, when they were taken possession of by the defendant, in his capacity as administrator, except that policy No.
68,430 had been surrendered by Ellis, on or about March 2,
1879, that the assignee in bankruptcy had no knowledge or
information concerning the policies until shortly before the
commencement of this suit, "the same being concealed by said
Ellis in Ins lifetime, and since his death by his administrator;
and that immediately upon being informed of the existence
of said property he demanded the same or the proceeds thereof
from the defendant."

OCTOBER TERI,

1889.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The answer puts in issue the material allegations of the
declaration, and pleads specially that the cause of action did
not accrue to the assignee, nor against the defendant as administrator, within -wo years before the suing out of the plaintiff's
writ.
The court refused to grant any of the defendant's requests
for instructions, including one based upon the statute of limitations, and instructed the jury that the plaintiff was entitled
to recover the two sums claimed by him, with interest on each
from the date of the writ. A verdict was thereupon returned
in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $11,539.56, upon which
judgment was rendered.
Mr Joshua .D Ball (with whom was Mr Edward Avery
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
Mr Eugene M. Johnson (with whom was .Ar .atkan
Morse on the brief) for defendant in error.
The third error assigned is "That the court should have
ruled that this action was barred by the provisions of ยง 5057
of the Revised Statutes of the United States (being the limitation of two years contained in the bankrupt law of the United
States,) unless the defendant fraudulently concealed from Bates,
the first assignee, the alleged cause of action, and that mere
omission on the part of the defendant to disclose to Bates, the
assignee, the facts, would not amount to a fraudulent concealment." The court was right in refusing to give this ruling.
Section 5057 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
provides that no suit at law or in equity shall be maintainable
in any court between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person
claing an adverse snterest touching any property or rights
of property transferable to or vested in such assignee, unless
brought within two years from the time when the cause of
action accrued for or against said assignee. It has been expressly held that this section has no application to a suit
against the bankrupt. Clark v Clark, 17 How 315, Phelps
v McDonald, 99 IT. S. 298, In re Conant, 5 Blatchford, 54,

AVERY v. CLEARY.
Opinion of the Court.

.F'pench v. .Merrill, 132 Mass. 525, -Minot v Tap2an,127 Mass.
333.
Nor does it affect the right of the assignee to demand and
receive from the bankrupt that which belongs to him by virtue
of the assignment. The admimstrator takes no greater right
in the property than the bankrupt had at his death, his duty
was to deliver it to the assignee, he is not "a claimant other
than the bankrupt," in whose favor the statute runs.
The fourth assignment of error is "That the court should
have ruled that mere ignorance on the part of the assignee in
bankruptcy of the cause of action would not take the case
out of the statute of limitations." Whereas the court refused so to rule. This ruling was rightly refused by the
court.
The evidence in the case showed that the policies were
omitted from the schedules. This was a concealment of the
property by the bankrupt. .Be Goodmdge, 2 Nat. Bank. Reg.
(Quarto ed.) 105, Re Ratibone, 2 Nat. Bank. Reg. (Quarto ed.)
89, Re Hvu sman, 2 Nat. Bank. IReg. (Quarto ed.) 140.
The evidence shows not a case of mere ignorance on the
part of the assignee in bankruptcy, but a fraudulent concealment of property by the bankrupt.
The instruction asked was not called for by the facts of the
case. Dwyer v .Dunbar,5 Wall. 318.
MR. JusTicE HArLA_, after stating the facts as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is provided by section 5057 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States that "no suit, either at law or in equity, shall
be maintainable in any court between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person claiming an adverse interest, touching
any property or rights of property transferable to or vested
in such assignee, unless brought within two years from the
time when the cause of action accrued for or against such
assignee. And this provision shall not m any case revive a
right of action barred at the time when an assignee is appointed." 14 Stat. 518, c. 176, ยง 9.
The court below was asked to rule that the action was

OCTOBER TERlN, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

barred by this section, "unless the defendant fraudulently
concealed from Bates, the first assignee, the alleged cause of
action, and that mere omission on the part of the defendant
to disclose to Bates, the assignee, the facts, would not amount
to a fraudulent concealment. It was also asked to rule that
mere ignorance upon the part of the assignee of the cause of
action would not take the case out of the statute of limitations. If these instructions, or either of them, ought to have
been given, the judgment must be reversed.
The first question to be examined is whether this is a suit
"between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person claiming
an adverse interest." It is contended that section 5057 has
no application to a suit against a bankrupt, and, consequently,
none to a suit against his administrator, who takes no greater
right in property transferable to or vested in the assignee,
than the bankrupt had at his death. Without stopping to
examine the authorities bearing upon this proposition, it is
clear that the rule contended for ought not to control the
present case. More than a year prior to the bankruptcy of
Ellis he had, by written assignment, transferred these policies to Morse, in trust to pay the income, profits, or proceeds
thereof to the two infant daughters of the assured. That
instrument was delivered to the insurance company many
months before the death of the assured. This is manifest
from the receipt taken by the company on the first of March.
1879, and which was signed by the assured and by Morse, as
trustee. The company must have been aware at that time of
the assignment. As it does not appear on what day the written transfer to Morse, for the benefit of the daughters of the
assured, was delivered to the company, it may be argued that
there is an entire absence of proof showing that Ellis had
parted with his interest in the policies prior to his bankruptcy
Still, the daughters of the assured must be held as claiming an
interest in the policies, adverse to the assignee in bankruptcy,
at least from the time the written transfer to Morse, as their
trustee, was lodged with the insurance company That must
have occurred as early as M-arch 1, 1879, more than three
years prior to the commencement of this suit.

AVERY v. CLEARY.
Opinion of the Court.

This conclusion is not at all affected by the fact that Morse
had no recollection, when ne testified m this case, of ever haymg had in his possession the written transfer to him of May
19, 1877. His want of recollection cannot outweigh the fact
that on the first of Mlarch, 1879, as trustee for the daughters
of Ellis, he co-operated with the latter m surrendering policy
68,430, and in applying the amount allowed on account of
such surrender, to the payment, among other things, of the
premiums due and to become due on the other two policies.
It is hardly to be supposed that he would have assumed to act
as trustee, in matters of such importance, without knowing by
whom, and for whose benefit, he was made such trustee.
Besides, the rights of the daughters, under the above written
transfer, did not depend upon his formal acceptance of the
trust imposed upon him. Those rights would have been protected by a court of equity, even if he had declined to act as
trustee.
Nor is it a material circumstance that Morse, after the death
of Ellis, stated. in his letter to the insurance company of
December 29, 1879, that he could not "find " any assignment
of policies 68,428 and 68,429, and did not claim any interest
in them. Neither his inability to find the assignment under
which he had acted, nor his disclaimer of an interest in the
policies, could affect the rights of Ellis' daughters. Further,
it is quite manifest that this letter was written merely to facilitate the collection of the proceeds of the policies by the'
administrator, who was also the guardian of the infant children
of the assured. Although the present suit is against the administrator, the latter, in respect to the policies in question,
really represents his wards, to whom, so far as we can see from
the present record, he must account for the moneys collected
from the insurance company
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that within themeaning of section 5057 this is a suit between the assignee in
bankruptcy and one claiming an adverse interest. It is, therefore, barred by limitation, unless it can be brought within the
rule announced m Bailey v Glover, 21 Wall. 342, 349. In
that case the court, construing section 5057, said.. "We hold
VOL. cxxxt-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

that when there has been no negligence or laches on the part
of a plaintiff in coming to the knowledge of the fraud which
is the foundation of the suit, and when the fraud has been
concealed, or is of such character as to conceal itself, the
statute does not begin.to run until the fraud is discovered by,
or becomes known to, the party suing, or those in privity with
him." See also Rosenthal v Walker, Ill U S. 185, Traer v
Clews, 115 _U S. 528.
The ground upon which the plaintiff claims exemption from
the limitation of two years is that the schedules in bankruptcy
omitted all mention of the policies in question, and that the
fact that the policies existed was "concealed and withheld"
by the bankrupt in his lifetime, and, since his death, by his
administrator.
If it be assumed that Ellis had not, prior to his bankruptcy,
delivered the assignment of May 19, 1877, and that his interests and rights in these policies were transferable to his assignee, the mere fact that he omitted any mention of the policies
in his schedules in bankruptcy, and that neither he nor his
administrator gave information of them to the assignee, would
not establish fraud within the meaning of the rule announced
in Bailey v Glover The oission from the schedules of any
reference to the policies, and the failure to call the attention
of the assignee to them. may have been caused by an honest
belief, upon the part of Ellis, that they belonged to his children,
or were not such property as the law required to be surrendered
to the assignee, and, therefore, he lodged the assignment to
Morse- possibly after his bankruptcy- with the insurance
company Be this as it may, the bankrupt's children are to
be regarded as asserting an interest in the policies, at least
from M arch 1, 1879, when the receipt of that date was executed. Fraud is not imputable to them, nor to the guardianj
simply because neither they nor he informed the assignee in
bankruptcy of their claims. Their silence, when they were
not under any legal obligation to speak, and when they
were unaware of any claim being asserted by the assignee,
did not amount to concealment. They did nothing to
prevent him from obtaining full information in reference to

AVE RY

v. CLEARY.

Opinon of the Court.

the assets of the bankrupt. The record discloses no circumstance tending to prove that they sought to keep their claim
from the knowledge of the assignee.
On the contrary, it appears in proof that Bates, the first assignee, was well acquainted with Ellis, and knew that, for
many years prior to the bankruptcy, he had carried a large
amount of insurance upon his life. It is true he says that he
got the impression from conversation with Ellis that many of
those policies had lapsed because of the latter's inability to
pay the premiums. But he admitted that about the time of
the bankruptcy he " learned indirectly that an assignment of
some policy or policies had been made to E. Rollins Morse
of Boston." He stated that his understanding with said Ellis
was, "after learning of the assignment to E. Rollins Aforse,
that such policy or policies had some time previously passed
from his control and were not a part of his assets in bankruptcy, that from such information as he, witness, received,
he concluded there was no value to the creditors in such
policy or policies." He acted upon this belief as to the situation, and forbore to make such inquiries as due diligence
required. He did not cease to be assignee until May, 1882,
nearly four years after his appointment, and more than three
years after the written transfer to Morse, in trust for Ellis'
daughters, had been lodged with the insurance company If
he did not know of such transfer, he could easily have ascertained what policies upon the life of the assured were in force
at the time of the adjudication in bankruptcy It is fundamental, in the rule announced in Bailey v Glover, that there
must not be negligence or laches upon the part of the assignee
in bankruptcy in coming to the knowledge of the fraud which
is the foundation of his suit, and which is relied upon to defeat
the limitation of two years. A rigid enforcement of that condition is essential to meet the object of the statute of limitation.
That object was to' secure a prompt determination of all questions arising in bankruptcy proceedings and a speedy distribution of the assets of bankrupts among their creditors. A
critical examination of the evidence leaves no room to doubt
that, apart from any question as to concealment upon the part

