BACHRACK v. NORTON.
Counsel for Parties.
UNITED STATES V. SCHOFIELD.

Appeal from the District Court

of the United States for the District of Maryland. No. 1034,
submitted with No. 1033. Mm. JUSTICE LAxAR delivered the
opinion of the court. This case is similar in all its essential
features to the preceding one of United States v. Davis, and the
decision m it should be the same. For the reasons given in the
opinion in that case the judgment of the court below in this case is
Affirmed.
Mr Assistant Attorney General Cotton for appellants.
.1r Gharles C. Lancasterfor appellee.

BACHRACK v. NORTON.
ERROR TO THE OICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

TE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 116. Argued and submitted November 15,1889. -Decided

December 9, 1889.

An action on a marshal's bond, to recover damages for the wrongful taking
of goods under an attachment issued out of a Circuit Court of the United
States, is a case arising under the laws of the United States, and is withm the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States without averment of citizenship of the parties. Feibelman v. Packard, 109 U. S. 421,
affirmed and applied.
In the absence of a statute forblding it, an assignment for the benefit of
creditors may be made to an assignee who is not a citizen or resident of
the State where the assignment is made or the debtor resides.
It having been held in Gunningham v. Norton, 125 U. S. 77, that the act of
Texas of March 24, 1879, was intended to favor general assignments by
insolvents for the benefit of their creditors, and to sustain them notwithstanding technical defects; it is now Held, that there is nothing in the
sixth section of the act, directing the assignee's bond to be filed with the
county clerk of "his" county, to indicate a legislative intent that an
assignee under such an assignment must necessarily be a citizen or resident of the State.

.r
H. G Robertson and Hr Sawne Robertson,for plaintiff
in error, submitted on their brief.
.Mr D A. Af&Ensgkt for defendant in error.
Johns was with him on the brief.
VOL. cx=-22

_Af

John

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

MR.JUSTIoE BRALEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action on a marshal's bond, against him and his
sureties, to recover damages for his wrongful taking of the
goods of the plaintiff under an attachment issued out of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Texas, against one Myerson. According to the decision in
_Febelman v Packard,109 U. S. 421, it is a case arising under
the laws of the United States, and is therefore within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court without any averment of citizenship of the parties.
The plaintiff avers that Myerson had previously assigned the
goods to him for the benefit of his creditors, and sets out a
copy of the assignment. The defendants demurred to the petition, or, in the language of the Texas practice, filed a special
exception, the principal ground of which was that it appears
by the petition that the plaintiff was a resident and citizen of
Missouri, and therefore could not lawfully be an assignee under
the laws of Texas. The court below entertained this view and
sustained the exception and, the plaintiff having declined to
amend, the cause was dismissed. The question, therefore, is,
whether the view taken by the court below was, or was not,
erroneous.
The assignment was made on the 22d day of October, 1880,
under the act of the legislature of Texas, approved March 24th,
1879, which was before this court in the case of Cunnngarn
v. Norton, 125 U. S. 77. In that case the provisions of the act
were examined sn extenso, and we held that it was intended to
favor general assignments by insolvents for the benefit of their
creditors, and to sustain them, notwithstanding technical defects, provided they assigned all the property of the debtor.
The assignment in the present case is substantially the same
in form as in the case of Cunnnghar2n v Norton. The only
material difference (if it is material) is the fact that the assignee was a resident of the State of Missouri, and not of Texas.
As to this, the allegation of the petition is, "that at the time
of making of said assignment he (the plaintiff) was a resident of
the city of St. Louis and State of Missouri, but that, while

BACHRACK v. NORTON.
Opinion of the Court.

holding his domicil in said State last named, his business lay in
the State of Texas, and for the greater part of the year, before
and since said time of the making of said assignment, he was in
said State of Texas in pursuance of his calling in said State,
that at, before and since the time of said assignment he was,
in pursuance of his calling, frequently in said county of Grayson, in which county he had business interests. That at the
time of making said assignment said iLyerson was a resident
of Grayson County, Texas, where he was conducting is business, and where said goods, wares and property, before and at
the time of making said assignment, were situated, and where
said assignment was made." Some two or three years after
this assignment was made, viz., April 7th, 1883, an amending
act was passed which, amongst other things, required that the
assigneee of an insolvent debtor under the act should be a resident of Texas, but the act of 1879 had no such requirement.
The only word in the whole act which could be construed to
imply it was in the 6th section, which required the assignee to
execute a bond with sureties, and directed that the bond should
be filed with the county clerk of Ats county We think that
this expression was insufficient to raise the implication contended for. It probably only meant that the bond should be
filed with the clerk of the county where the debtor resided and
carried on business.
Independently of a statute on the subject, we do not see
why, as a mere matter of law, an assignment should be held
void because the assignee is not a citizen or resident of the
State where the assignment is made and the debtor resides,
provided he complies with the conditions prescribed by the law
A citizen, or resident, of another State may, in a particular
case, be a very proper assignee. A large part of a debtor's
assets may be located in a State other than that in which he
resides. If a non-resident assignee should for any reason be
deemed an improper person to act as such, the court having
jurisdiction of the matter could, according to the laws of Texas,
remove him and appoint another in his place. It was the object of the act of 1879 to uphold, rather than to set aside, assignments, to aid defects, rather than to allow them to defeat

