OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

another under the influence of a mistake, that is,upon the
supposition that a specific fact is true, which would entitle
the other to the money, but which fact is untrue, and the
money would not have been paid if it had been known to the
payer that the fact was untrue, an action will lie to recover it
back, and it is against conscience to retain it." See also
Townsend v Crowdy, 8 0. B. N. S. 4f7, Strickland v
Turner, 7 Exch. 208. Reasons for the application of the rule
are much more potent in the case of contracts of the government than of contracts of individuals, for the government
must necessarily rely upon the acts of agents, whose ignorance, carelessness, or unfaithfulness would otherwise often
bind it, to the serious injury of its operations.
The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded for
a new trzal, and it 's so ordered, and 's further ordered
that ths judgment be entered as of the 30th day of October,
A.L) 1889, the day upon wh'ck the said cause was submitted to the courtfor deciszon, the said defendant = errorBarlow having sinee died.

FRITTS .v. PALMER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 72. Submitted November 6,1889. -Decided November 25,1889.

The constitution of Colorado provided that no foreign corporation should
do business in the State without having a known place of business and
an agent upon whom process might be served. A statute of the State
made provision for the filing by such corporation with the Secretary of
State of a certificate showing its place of biisiness and designating
such agent or agents, and also a copy of its charter of incorporation, or
of its certificate of incorporation under a general incorporation law; and,
in case of failure to do so, that each and every officer, agent and stockholder of the corporation should be jointly and severally personally
liable on its contracts made while in default. Said act further provided
that no corporation, foreign or domestic, should purchase or hold real
estate except as provided in the act. The act did not indicate a mode by
which a foreign corporation might acquire real estate in Colorado. G.,

FRITTS v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.
being the owner m fee of a tract of realty in that State, conveyed it by
deed of warranty to a corporation organized under the laws of Missouri,
which had not then attempted, and did not afterwards attempt to comply
with those provisions of the constitution or laws of Colorado. F., the
defendant below, claimed through this corporation. Some months after
his deed to the corporation, G. executed, acknowledged and delivered a quitclaim deed of the premises to the grantor of P., the plaintiff below- Held,
(1) That perhaps the reasonable interpretation of the statute was that a
foreign corporation should not purchase or hold real estate in
Colorado until it should acquire, in the mode prescribed by the
local law, the right to do business in that State;
(2) That these constitutional and statutory provisions were valid so far
as they did not directly affect foreign or interstate commerce;
(3) That the company violated the laws of the State when it purchased
the property without having previously designated its place of
business and an agent,
(4) But that the deed was not thereby necessarily made absolutely void
as to all persons and for every purpose, inasmuch as the constitution and laws of Colorado did not prohibit foreign corporations
from purchasing and holding real estate within its limits;
(5) That the penalty of personal liability of officers, agents and stockholders in case of non-compliance with the provisions of the
statute, having apparently been deemed by the state legislature
sufficient to effect its object, it was not for the judiciary to enlarge that penalty, by forfeiting the estate for the benefit of
parties claiming under a subsequent deed from the same grantor;
(6) That the grantee under the subsequent quit-claim deed could occupy
no better position than the grantor, common to both parties,
would have occupied if he had himself brought the action; and
that, m that case, it could not have been maintained.

Tas was an action in the nature of an action of ejectment.
Judgment for the plaintiff, to which this writ of error was
sued out. The case is stated in the opinion.
Mir Z. C. Rockwell, Air
Ellis for plaintiffs in error.
Ai

. A. Reynolds and Air Bertram

Joseph Shppen for defendant in error.

AMR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action in the nature of ejectment to recover the

possession of certain real property m Gilpin County, Colorado,
namely, the North Comstock, Grand View, Clipper and Con-

OCTOBER TERMX, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

stock lodes, and a building lot in Central City, in the same
county, together with the dwelling-house thereon, the fee and
possession of all which property were claimed by the plaintiff,
the present defendant in error. The defendants admitted
their possession of the premises described in the complaint,
except the Clipper lode, and alleged their ownership and right
of possession of the other property
They distinctly disclaimed all interest m the Clipper lode, and denied that they
were or had ever been in possession of it. A trial by jury was
waived in writing .by the parties, and the caqe was heard on
an agreed statement of facts, upon which the court was asked
to declare the law and enter judgment accordingly
Judgment was rendered ihi favor of the plaintiff for the possession
of all the property described in the complaint, including the
Clipper lode. The question to be determined is whether the
judgment is supported by the agreed facts.
These facts are in substance as follows The common source
of title is William Groshon, who, on the 16th of June, 1877,
at Central City, in the State of Colorado, conveyed, with
warranty, all the property described in the complaint, to the
Comstock Mining Company, a corporation organized under
the laws of Missouri for the purpose of carrying on mining
business, and with the object expressed in its articles of incorporation, of purchasing, owning and controlling mining property, both real and personal, in the State of Colorado, and of
conducting a mining business therewith. This deed was duly
recorded in the proper local office on the 25th of June, 1877.
Before the purchase from Groshon the company was engaged
in the prosecution.of its mining business at and near Central
City, where it estaolished an office.
On the day of the execution of Groshon's deed, the company made to Ezra D. Fritts its three promissory notes,
aggregating thirty thousand dollars, which were intended to
be used and were used in part payment of the price of the
property conveyed to it, and, in order to secure the payment
of the notes, it executed to Thatcher, as trustee, a deed of
trust upon the property, except the Clipper lode, conditioned
that on default in the payment of either of the notes or the

FRITTS v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

interest thereon, the trustee might sell and dispose of the said
mining property That deed of trust was duly recorded on
the 26th of June, 1877.
On the 5th of January, 1878, default having occurred in the
payment of the notes, the deed of trust was foreclosed under
the power of sale contained in it, and on that day Thatcher
executed, acknowledged and delivered ins deed for all said
real estate and mining property (except the Clipper lode) to
Fritts. That deed was duly recorded January 7, 1878.
The defendants claimed title and possession by virtue of
divers mesne conveyances, in due form, from the company and
its assigns under the above deed of trust, for all of the property, excepting the Clipper lode, which has never been conveyed by it.
On the 13th of April, 1878, Groshon executed, acknowledged,
and delivered his deed of quit-claim of all the real estate and
mining property in the complaint described to Samuel S.
Porter. That deed was delivered to Porter on the 20th of
May, 1878, but has never been recorded. The latter by his
deed of quit-claim, executed May 20, 1878, conveyed to defendant Palmer. The latter deed was delivered to the grantee
on the 25th of May, 1878, but it remains unrecorded. Afterwards, June 28, 1879, Palmer filed in the office of the clerk
and recorder of the county where the property is situated
notice, according to law, of the bringing of this suit, and the
object thereof.
The Comstock Mining Company at the time of its purchase
from Groshon had not, nor has it since that time, complied or
attempted to comply with section ten of article fifteen of the
constitution of Colorado, nor with sections twenty-three and
twenty-four of chapter nineteen of the General Laws of that
State, otherwise known as sections 260 and 261 of chapter 19
of the General Statutes of Colorado, 1883, prescribing the
terms and conditions upon which foreign corporations may do
business in that State.
A copy of the incorporation laws of Missouri, under which
this company was organized, was, at the time of its organization, on file in the office of the Secretary of State of Colorado,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

but was not filed by it. Its articles of incorporation were
filed in the office of the clerk and recorder for Gilpin County,
where its business interests were located, on August 10, 1877,
and a copy of the incorporation laws of Missouri, under which
the company was organized, was also on file in the same office
at and after the time the company was organized.
The defendants, during the time of their possession of the
property, have held the same in good faith under the above
deeds, and have paid taxes legally assessed and levied upon it,
to the amount of $ 400, and plaintiff has paid no taxes thereon.
They have put nnprovements upon the property, in the way of
building and repairing the dwelling-house described m the
complaint, of the value of $350.
It is clear, from the facts agreed, that the object of Groshon's
conveyance to the Comstock]Mining Company was to pass to
that corporation whatever interest he had in the property
It is equally clear that under the trust deed to Thatcher, the
sale and conveyance to Fritts, and the .subsequent mesne conveyances to the defendants, the latter acquired whatever interest the Comstock Mining Company got by Groshon's deed
to it.
But it is contended that no title or interest whatever passed
from Groshon, by his deed of June 16, 1871, even as between
hun and the company, and, consequently, it was competent
for im, at his pleasure, and notwithstanding he received the
consideration for which he stipulated, and even after the sale
and conveyance of the property under the deed of trust, to
make to other parties a quit-claim deed that would override,
not only his conveyance to the Comstock Mining Company,
but all subsequent conveyances based upon it.
This proposition is based upon certain provisions of the constitution and laws of Colorado relating to foreign corporations.
The constitution of that State declares that "no foreign
corporation shall do any business in this State without having
one or more known places of business, and an authorized agent
or agents in the same, upon whom process may be served."

Art. XV ยง 10.
The statutory provisions, for failing to comply with which

FRITTS v. PALTIfER.
Opinion of the Court.

the Comstock Mining Company is alleged to have taken nothing by Groshon's conveyance to it, are these
"SEc. 260. Foreign corporations shall, before they are authorized or permitted to do any business in this State, make
and file a certificate signed by the president and secretary
of such corporation, duly acknowledged, with the Secretary
of State, and in the office of the recorder of deeds of the
county in which such business is carried on, designating the
principal place where the business of such corporation shall
be carried on in this State, and an authorized agent or agents
m this State residing at its principal place of business upon
whom process may be served, and such corporations shall be
subjected to all the liabilities, restrictions and duties which
are or may be imposed upon corporations of like character
organized under the general laws of this State, and shall have
no other or greater powers. And no foreign or domestic corporation established or maintained in any way for pecuniary
profit of its stockholders or members shall purchase or hold
real estate in this State, except as provided for in this act,
and no corporation doing business m the State, incorporated
under the laws of any other State, shall be permitted to mortgage, pledge or otherwise encumber its real or personal property
situated m this State, to the injury or exclusion of any citizen,
citizens or corporations of this State who are creditors of such
foreign corporation, and no mortgage by any foreign corporation, except railroad and telegraph companies, given to secure
any debt created m any other State, shall take effect as
against any citizen or corporation of this State until all its
liabilities due to any person or corporation in this State at the
time of recording such mortgage have been paid and extinguished.
"SEC. 261. Every company incorporated under the laws of
any foreign State or kingdom, or of any State or Territory of
the United States beyond the limits of this State, and now
or hereafter doing business within this State, shall file m the
office of the Secretary of State a copy of their charter of incorporation, or, in case such company is incorporated by certificate under any general incorporation law, a copy of such

OCTOBER TERMH, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

certificate and of such general incorporation law, duly certified and authenticated by the proper authority of such foreign
State, Kingdom, or Territory" Gen. Stat. Col. 1883, c. 19.
Precisely what was meant by the words, in section 260,
"except as provided for in this act," is difficult to tell, since
the act does not indicate any particular mode in which a foreign corporation may acquire real estate in Colorado. But,
perhaps the reasonable interpretation of the statute is that a
foreign corporation shall not purchase or hold real estate in
Colorado, for purposes of its business, until it first acquires,
in the mode prescribed by the local law, the right to do business in that State.
No question is made in this case -indeed, there can be no
doubt -as to the validity of these constitutional and statutory provisions, so far, at least, as they do not directly affect
foreign or interstate commerce. In Cooper 3fanufactung
Co. v Ferguson,113 U S. '727, 732, this court said that "the
right of the people of a State to prescribe generally by its constitution and laws the terms upon which a foreign corporation shall be allowed to carry on its business in the State, has
been settled by this court." It may be assumed, therefore,
that the Comstock Mining Company, being a corporation of
another State, had no right to do business in the State of
Colorado until after it had one or more known places of
business within its limits, and an authorized agent designated
upon whom process could be served, nor until it had made and
filed in the proper office the certificate prescribed by section
260 of the statute relating to foreign corporations. It may
also be assumed, for the purposes of this case, that this company violated the law of that State when it purchased the
premises here in controversy without having, in the mode
prescribed by the statutes of Colorado, previously designated
its principal place of business in that State, and an agent
upon whom process might be served.
But it does not follow that the title to the property conveyed to the Comstock Mining Company remained in Groshon,
notwithstanding his conveyance of it to that company, in due
form, and for a valuable consideration.

FRITTS v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

The constitution and laws of Colorado, it should be observed, do not prohibit foreign corporations altogether from
purchasing or holding real estate within its limits. They do
not declare absolutely or wholly void, as to all persons, and for
every purpose, a conveyance of real estate to a foreign corporation which has not previously done what is required before
it can rightfully carry on business in the State. Nor do they
declare that the title to such property shall remain in the
grantor, despite his conveyance. So far as we are aware, the
only penalty imposed by the statutes of Colorado upon a foreign corporation carrying on business in the State before acquiring the right to do so, is found in section 262 of the same
chapter, which provides "A failure to comply with the provisions of sections 23 and 24 [sections 260 and 261] of this act
shall render each and every officer, agent and stockholder of
any such corporation, so failing therein, jointly and severally
personally liable on any and all contracts of such company
made within this State during the time that such corporation
is so in default." The fair implication is that, in the judgment
of the legislature of Colorado, this penalty was ample to effect
the object of the statutes prescribing the terms upon which
foreign corporations might do business in that State. It is not
for the judiciary, at the instance or for the benefit of private
parties, claiming under deeds executed by the person who had
previously conveyed to the corporation, according to the forms
prescribed for passing title to real estate, to inflict the additional and harsh penalty of forfeiting, for the benefit of such
parties, the estate thus conveyed to the corporation and by it
conveyed to others. If Groshon, the grantor of the Comstock
Mining Company, had himself brought this action, the injustice
of his claim would be conceded. But the present plaintiff, who
asserts'title under a quit-claim deed from Groshon made after
the property had passed, by the sale under the deed of trust,
from the mining company, cannot, in law, occupy any better
position than the original grantor would have done if he had
himself brought this action. If the legislature had intended to
declare that no title should pass under a conveyance to a foreign corporation purchasing real estate before it acquires the
voL. cx=xx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

right to engage in business in the State, and that such a conveyance should be an absolute nullity as between the grantor
and grantee, leaving the grantor to deal with the property as
if he had never sold it, that intention would have been clearly
manifested. If the construction placed by the plaintiff upon
the constitution and statutes of Colorado be sound, there would
be some ground to say that a foreign corporation, taking a
conveyance of real estate for purposes of its business m Colorado, before it had acquired the right to do business there,
would have no standing in the courts of that State for the purpose of having the estate so acquired protected against trespasses upon it. And yet the contrary has been held by the
Supreme Court of Colorado in ltley &e. v Clark-GardnerMinsng Company, 4 Colorado, 369. That was an action of trespass
brought by a New York corporation. The declaration in one
count charged the defendants with breaking and entering upon
certain claims of the Gardner lode and breaking ore, etc. The
other count was de bonss asvortatis. The defendants filed a
special plea in abatement, alleging that the plaintiff was a for
eign corporation, and had never complied with the above statutory provisions as to filing a certificate designating its principal
place of business in the State and an authorized agent upon
whom process could be served. The court, waiving any expression of opinion as to what would be its decision, if the plea had
been one in bar of the action, held that the prohibition in respect to foreign corporations, while they extended to the
carrying on of business before complying with the laws of the
State, did not abridge the right of a foreign corporation to sue
in the courts of Colorado.
The views we have expressed are supported by several adjudications in this court in cases somewhat analogous to the
present one, among which are those arising under sections
5136 and 5131 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
The first of those sections authorizes national banking associations to loan money on personal security The other section
provides "A national banking association may purchase, hold
and convey real estate for the followmg purposes, and for no
others First, such as shall be necessary for its immediate ac-

FRITTS v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

commodation in the transaction of its business. Second, such
as shall be mortgaged to it in good faith by way of security
for debts previously contracted. Third, such as shall be conveyed to it in satisfaction of debts previously contracted in the
course of its dealings. Fourth, such as it shall purchase at
sales under judgments, decrees or mortgages held by the association, or shall purchase to secure debts to it. But no such
association shall hold the possession of any real estate under
mortgage, or the title and possession of any real estate purchased to secure any debts due to it, for a longer period than
five years."
In National Ba/nk v Xatthews, 98 U S.621, 627, the question was directly presented whether a national bank was entitled to the benefit of a deed of trust upon real estate, which,
with the note described in it, was taken -not as security for,
or in satisfaction of, debts previously contracted in the course
of its dealings, but -for a loan made by the bank at the time
the deed of trust was assigned to it. The Supreme Court of
Missouri held the deed of trust to be void, in the bands of the
bank, because its loan was made upon real estate security in
violation of the statute. But ihis court, after observing that
the result insisted upon did not necessarily follow, said "The
statute does not declare such a security void. It is silent upon
the subject. If Congress so meant, it would have been easy to
say so, and it is hardly to be believed that this would not
have been done, instead of leaving the question to be settled
by the uncertain result of litigation and judicial decision.
Where usurious interest is contracted for, a forfeiture is prescribed and exTlicitly defined." Again "Where a corporation is incompetent by its charter to take a title to real estate,
a conveyance to it is not void, but only voidable, and the
sovereign alone can object. It is valid until assailed in a direct
proceeding, instituted for that purpose."
In .Vatwnal Bank v. TWitney, 103 U S. 99, 103, which involved the validity of a mortgage to a national bank, to secure
future advances made to the mortgagor, the right of the bank
to enforce the mortgage was sustained upon the principles announced in National Bank v. 3fatthews. The court said

OCTOBER TERIM. 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

W
Whatever objection there may be to it as security for such
advances from the prohibitory provisions of the statute, the
-objection can only be urged by the government." To the
same effect are Swope v Leffingwell, 105 U S. 3, and Reynolds
v Crawfornhsville Bank, 112 U S. 405, 412.
In Sn it v Shelley, 12 Wall. 358, 361, which was an action
of ejectment, the question was collaterally raised as to the
validity of the title acquired by a banking institution, under a
deed of the premises, in consideration of a certan sum paid
by it to the grantor. The bank was created by an act of the
territorial legislature of Nebraska, with power "to issue bills,
deal m exchange, and to buy and possess property of every
kind." But when that act passed, there was in force an act
of Congress, which provided that "no act of the territorial
legislature of any of the Territories of the United States, incorporating any bank or any institution with banking powers
or privileges, hereafter to be passed, shall have any force or
effect whatever, until approved and confirmed by Congress."
The act of the territorial legislature incorporating the bank,
above referred to, never was approved or confirmed by Congress. It was urged, as an o6jection to the deed made to the
bank-

upon which deed one of the parties relied-

that it

was not a competent grantee to receive title. This court said
"It is not denied that the bank was duly organized in pursuance of the provisions of an act of the legislature of the Territory of Nebraska, but it is said, it had no right to transact
business until the charter creating it was approved by Congress. This is so, and it could not legally exercise its powers
until this approval was obtained, but this defect in its constitution cannot be taken advantage of collaterally No proposition is more thoroughly settled than this, and it is unnecessary
to refer to authorities to support it. Conceding the bank to
be guilty of usurpation, it was still a body corporate de facto,
exercising at least one of the franchises which the legislature
attempted to, confer upon it, and, in such a case, the party
who makes a sale of real estate to it is not in a position to
question its capacity to take the title, after it has paid the
consideration for the purchase. If, prior to the execution of

FRITTS v. PALMER.
Dissenting Opinion. MNiller, J.

the deed, there bad been a judgment of ouster against the
corporation at the instance of the government, the aspect of
See also .Myers v Croft, 13
the case would be different."
Wall. 291, 295, Jones v Guaranty and Inderantty Co., 101
U. S. 622, 628, Fortier v .Yew Orleans Bank, 112.U S. 439,
451.
To the above cases may be added those holding that an
alien may take by deed or devise and hold against any one
Cross v De alle, 1
but the sovereign until office found.
Wall. 1, 13, Governeurv Robertson, 11 Wheat. 332, .Y'ational
Bank v .3atthews, 98 U. S. 621, 628, Phillips v. .Moore, 100
U. S. 208. Also, those holding that the question whether a
corporation, having capacity to purchase and hold real estate
for certain defined purposes, or in certain quantities, has taken
title to real estate for purposes not authorized by law, or in
excess of the quantity permitted by its charter, concerns only
the State within whose limits the property is situated. It
cannot be raised collaterally by private persons unless there
be something in the statute expressly or by necessary implication authorizing them to do so. Cowell v 8frings Company,
100 U. S.55, 60, Jones v Habersham, 107 U. S. 174, 188.
It results from what has been said that the court erred in
rendering judgment for the plaintiff for any part of the premises described in the complaint.
The judgment 's 'reversed, wdth directions to enter judgment
upon the agreed statement offacts for the defendants.
Mn.

JUSTICE MILLEi

dissentino.

I earnestly dissent from the opinion of the majority of the
court. I do not enter into the question of the circumstances
under which a foreign corporation can do business within the
limits of the State of Colorado under section 23 of the General
Statutes of 1883 of that State, nor do I here consider or attach
importance to the question of how far a party dealing with a
foreign corporation which has not complied with the rules
prescribed by the State to enable it to do business in the State
is estopped by the presumption that, in making contracts with

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion

Miller, J.

it, it has recognized its official existence and its right to contract. I base my dissent in the present case upon the following emphatic language in the laws of that State
"No foreign or domestic corporation established or maintained in any way for pecuniary profit of its stockholders or
members shall purchase or hold real estate in this State except
as provided for in this act."
It is very clear that the words "as provided for in this act"
have relation to the acts, prescribed for all corporations, of
filing with the Secretary of State, and the recorder of deeds
of the county in which that business is carried on, the necessary statement of their corporate existence, properly certified,
and the appointment of agents in the State residing m its principal place of business. The language I have just cited from
this statute is unambiguous, and is not a declaration of powers
and rights conferred upon these corporations, but it is prohibitory, and declares that no corporation shall purchase or
hold real estate that has not complied with this requirement.
It has been a recognized doctrine of this court for a great
many years, perhaps a century, that the transfer of title to
real estate, whether by inheritance, by purchase and sale, or
by any other mode by which title to property is acquired, is
rightfully governed by the laws of the State in which the
land is situated. The policy of permitting corporations to
hold real estate has always been a restricted one. Corporate
bodies, whether for public use or for private purposes, have
always been subjects of limitation on their right to hold real
estate. It may be prohibited altogether. It may be allowed
with distinct limitations as to amount either in quantity or in
value. In this respect it is wholly within the control of legislative action. I can conceive of cases where corporations have
been authorized to acquire a limited amount of real estate such
as the legislature may conceive to be useful and necessary to
the purpose for which they are organized, or to take property
for specific uses, in which the question as to whether they have
exceeded that amount or perverted the use may be one for the
State alone, and not of any private citizen. But the positive
declaration that a corporation shall not purchase or hold real

