OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

Inasmuch as Congress, for the thirteen years prior to 1883,
treated hair-pins for revenue purposes as a distinct article from
"pins, solid-head or other," we consider it unreasonable to
conclude that the legislation of 1883 was intended to do away
with a distinction manifestly regarded as inherent in the thing
itself.
In short, it is doubtful if it could ever have been properly
held that hair-pins were ejusdem, gene's with the pins referred
to in the tariff acts, but if this could have been so prior to
1870, we are of opinion that at that time Congress assigned
them to a class by themselves, because essentially suz genems,
and, therefore, that their not being specifically enumerated in
1883 did not relegate them to the category of "pins, solid-head
or other," as ingeniously argued by counsel.
From these views the conclusion follows that the court
below should have instructed the jury to find for the defendant.
and the cause 'remanded w~th a
s
Ute judgment "reversed,
tinal.
a
new
direction to award

PE1NIE v. REIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1260. Submitted December 2, 1889.-Decided December 16, 1889.

When a pleading misstateS the effect and purpose of a statute upon winch
the party relies, a demurrer to it does not admit the correctness of the
construction, or that the statute imposes the obligations or confers the
rights which the party alleges.
The legislature of California, in 1878, enacted a statute which provided for
the payment of the police force of San Francisco at a rate "which should
not exceed .102 a month for each one," subject to the condition that the
treasurer of the city and county " should retain from the pay of ea~h
police officer the sum of two dollars per month to be paid into a fund to
be known as the police life and health insurance fund." The act further
provided that upon the death of any member of the police force after
June 1, 1878, there should be paid by said treasurer out of said life and
health insurance fund to his legal representative the sum of $1000. On
the 4th of March, 1889, this act was repealed and another statute enacted

PENNIE v. REI$.
Statement of the Case.
creating " a police relief and pension fund," and transferring to it the
police life and health insurance fund, which had been created under the
other act, and making new and different provisions for the distribution
of the new fund. W was a police officer of the city and county from
1869 until his death on March 13, 1889, after the repealing act had gone
into operation. His administrator sued to recover $1000 from the police
life and health insurance fund, which then amounted to $40,000- Held,
that this fund was a public fund, subject to legislative control, and that
W had no vested interest in it, which could not be taken away by the
legislature during his lifetime.

THE. court,

in its opinion, stated the case as follows

This case comes from the Supreme Court of the State of
California. The petitioner is the administrator of one Edward
A. Ward, deceased, who was a police officer of the city and
county of San Francisco from the 24th of September, 1869,
until his death, which occurred on the 13th of March, 1889.
On the 1st of April, 1878, an act of the legislature of California was approved, entitled, "An act to enable the Board of
Supervisors of the city and county of San Francisco to increase
the police force of said city and county, and, provide for the
appointment, regulation and payment thereof."
Statutes of
California of 1877, p. 879. The first section of this act authorized the Board of Supervisors to increase the existing force of
the police, which consisted of one hundred and fifty members,
not exceeding two hundred and fifty more, the whole number
not to make in all more than four hundred, and provided that
they should be appointed and governed in the same manner as
the then existing force. The second section declared that the
compensation of the two hundred and fifty, or such part
thereof as the board might allow, should not exceed $102 &
month for each one, and that the compensation of those then
in office should continue at the rate prescribed by the acts
under which they were appointed until June 1, 1879, when
their pay should be fixed by a board of commissioners created
under the act, that the police officers then in office should be
known as the "old police," and those appointed under the act
as the "new police," and that the officers subsequently appointed to fill vacancies on the old police should receive the
VOL. CxXXii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

same pay as the new police, subject to the condition that the
treasurer of said city and county should "retain from the pay
of each police officer the sum of two dollars .per month, to be
paid into a fund to be known as the 'police life and health
insurance fund,"' to be administered as provided in the act.
The mayor, auditor and treasurer of the city and county of
San Francisco were constituted a board to be known as the
"police, life and health insurance board," and required from
time to time to invest, as it might deem best, the moneys of
the police life and health insurance fund in various designated
securities, to be held by the treasurer, subject to the order of
the board. The act declared that upon the death of any member of the police force, after the first day of June, 1878, there
should be paid, by the treasurer, out of the said life and health
insurance fund, to his legal representative, the sum of one
thousand dollars, that in case any officer should resign from
bad health or bodily infirmity, there should be paid to him,
from that fund, the amount of the principal which he may
have contributed thereto, and that, in case such fund should
not be sufficient to pay the demand upon it, such demand
should be registered and paid in the order of its registry, out
of the funds as received. Ward having been a police officer
whilst this act was in force, the administrator of his estate
demanded of the treasurer the one thousand dollars provided
by it. There was in the treasury at the time the sum of forty
thousand dollars. The treasurer having refused to pay the
demand, the administrator applied to the Supreme Court for a
writ of mandate upon him to compel its payment. To the
petition for that writ the treasurer demurred on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, or entitle the petitioner to the writ- of mandate, or to
any relief whatever, and that the act of the legislature, passed
March 4, 1889, entitled "An act to create a Police Relief
Health and Life Insurance and Pension Fund in the several
counties, cities and counties, cities and towns of the State,"
was a valid and constitutional enactment.
Statutes of California, 1889, p. 56. This act creates a board of trustees of the
police relief and pension fund of the police department in each

PEKNIE v. REIS.
Statement of the, Case.

county, city and county, city or town, to be known as the
board of police pension fund commissioners, and provides for
its organization and the administration of the fund, and for
pensions to officers over sixty years of age, who have been in
the service over twenty years, to those who have become
physically disabled in the performance of their duties, and to
the widows and children of those who lose-their lives in the
discharge of their duties, and for the payment of certain sums
of money to the widows or children of those who die from
natural causes after ten and less than twenty years' service,
and regulates the evidence of disability, and that retired officers shall report to the chief of police at certain stated periods,
and perform duty under certain circumstances, and for the
forfeiture of pensions by misconduct, and for the meetings of
the board, and prescribes their duties as to the fund.
Sections 12 and 13 of the act are as follows:
"SEC. 12. The Board of Supervisors, or other governing authority, of any county, city and county, city or town shall, for
the purposes of said ' Police Relief and Pension Fund' hereinbefore mentioned, direct the payment annually, and when the
tax levy is!made, into said fund of the following moneys:
".First. Not less than five nor more than ten per centum of
all moneys collected and received from licenses for the keeping
of places wherein spirituous, malt, or other intoxicating liquors
are sold.
"Second. One-half of all moneys received from taxes or
from licenses upon dogs.
":TInrd. All moneys received from fines imposed upon the
members of the police force of said county, city and county,
city or town, for violation of the rules and regulations of the
police department.
".Fourth. All proceeds of sales of unclaimed property
"Ffth. Not less than one-fourth nor more than one-half of
all moneys received from licenses from pawnbrokers, billiardhall keepers, second-hand dealers, and junk stores.
"Sixth. All moneys received from fines for carrying concealed weapons.
"1Seventh. Twenty-five per centum of all fines collected in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

money for violation of county, city and county, city or town
ordinances.
"EigAth. All rewards given or paid to members of such
police force, except such as shall be excepted by the chief of
police.
"Vinth. The treasurer of any county, city and county, city
or town shall retain from the pay of each member of police
department the sum. of two dollars per month, to be forthwith
paid into said police relief and pension fund, and no other or
further retention or deduction shall be made from such pay
for any other fund or purpose whatever.
"SEc. 13. Any Police, Life, and Health Insurance Fund, or
any fund provided by law, heretofore existing in any county,
city and county, city or town for the relief or pensioning of
police officers, or their life or health insurance, or for the payment of a sum of money on their death, shall be merged with,
paid into, and constitute a part of the fund created under the
provisions of this act, and no person who has resigned or been
dismissed from said police department shall be entitled to any
relief from such fund. 1Powded, That any person who, within
one year prior to the passage of this act, has been dismissed
from the police department for incompetency or inefficiency,
and which incompetency or inefficiency was caused solely by
sickness or disability contracted or suffered while in service as
a member.thereof, and who has, prior to said dismissal, served
for twelve or more years as such member, shall be entitled to
all the benefits of this act."
The act also repealed all acts or parts of acts in conflict
with its provisions. Under this act the treasurer refused to
pay the money demanded by the administrator of Ward. The
Supreme Court of the State held that this latter act was a
valid law, and that it repealed the former act, and denied the
prayer of the petitioner and dismissed the writ.
From that judgment the adinmistrator has brought the case
to this court on a writ of error.
Mr A~fred Clarke and M7, James A. Johnson for plaintiff
in error.

PENNIE v. REIS.
Opinion of the Court.

.r Damws Louderbacl, and .fr
ant in error.

11 W .Morrowfor defend-

MRin. JusTicE FIELD, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

It was contended in the court below that this latter act of
March 4, 1889, violated that provision of the Constitution of
the United States, and of the State, which declares that no
person shall be deprived of his property without due process
of law The Supreme Court of the State held that this contention went on the theory that the deceased police officer
had, at the time of his death, a ested property right in the
one thousand dollars of public money which the former statute
had directed to be paid to his legal representative upon is
death. The petitioner now insists that this statement of his
contention below is erroneous, that he did not then contend
and does not now contend that the fund in the hands of the
treasurer was public money, but private money accumulated
from the contributions of the members of the police force, and
that by Ward's contribution the sum claimed became, on his
death,-

like money due on a life insurance policy -property

of his estate. Such, at least, is his position, if we rightly
understand it. Some plausibility is given to it by the language of the petition to which the treasurer demurred. The
petition alleges that Ward, the deceased, contributed, out of
his salary as a police officer, to the police life and health insurance fund, the sum of two dollars per month for each month
from April 1, 1878, to and including the month of March,
1889, and that the whole amount of his contribution to that
fund was $264 , that, upon his death, there was due to the
petitioner, as the legal representative of Ward, the sum of one
thousand dollars, payable out of that fund, that it was the
duty of the, treasurer of that fund to pay it, and that there
was in his possession, at the time, forty thousand dollars
applicable to its payment.
The petitioner now contends that these several allegations
are to be taken as literally true, from the fact that the treasurer demurred to the petition. But a demurrer admits only

OCTOBER TERM, 1889,
Opinion of the Court.

allegations of fact and not conclusions of law When therefore a plaintiff relies for recovery upon compliance with the
provisions of a statute, and attempts to set forth conformity
with them, the court will look to that statute and take the
allegations as intended to meet its provisions, notwithstanding
the inaccuracy of any statement respecting them. If the
pleading misstates the effect and purpose of the statute upon
which the party relies, the adverse party, in demurring to such
pleading, does not admit the correctness of the construction,
or that the statute imposes the obligations or confers the
rights which the party alleges. -Dillonv. Barnard,21 Wall.
430, 437. lotwithstanding, therefore, in this case, the petitioner avers that the deceased police officer contributed out of
his salary two dollars a month, pursuant to the law in question, and, in substance, that the fund which was to pay the
one thousand dollars claimed was created out of like contributions of the members of the police, the court, looking to the
statute, sees that, in point of fact, no money was contributed
by the police officer out of his salary, but that the money
which went into that fund under the act of April 1, 1878, was
money from the State retained in its possession for the creation
of this very fund, the balance - one hundred dollars - being
the only compensation paid to the police officer. Though
called part of the officer's compensation, he never received it
or controlled it, nor could he prevent its appropriation to the
fund m question. 'Hehad no such power of disposition over
it as always accompanies ownership of property The statute,
in legal effect, says that the police officer shall receive as compensation, each month, not exceeding one hundred dollars, or
such sum as may be fixed after June 1, 1879, by a board of
commissioners created under the act, and that, in addition
thereto, the State will create a fund by appropriating two dollars each month for that purpose, from which, upon his resignation for bad health or bodily infirmity, or dismissal for
mere incompetency not coupled with any offence against the
laws of the State, a certain sum shall be paid to him, and,
upon his death, a certain sum shall go to his legal representative.

PENIE v. REIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Being a fund raised in that way, it was entirely at the disposal of the government, until, by the happening of one of
the events stated -the resignation, dismissal, or death of the
officer -the right to the specific sum promised became vested
in the officer or his representative. It requires no argument
or citation of authorities to show, that in making a disposition
of a fund of that character, previous to the happening of one of
the events mentioned, the State impaired no absolute right
of property in the police officer. The direction of the State,
that the fund should be one for the benefit of the police officer
or his representative, under certain conditions, was subject to
change or revocation at any time, at the will of the legislature.
There was no contract on the part of the State that its disposition should always continue as originally provided. Until
the particular event should happen upon which the money or
a part of it was to be paid, there was no vested right in the
officer to such payment. His interest in the fund was, until
then, a mere expectancy created by the law, and liable to be
revoked or destroyed by the same authority The law of
April 1. 1878, having been repealed before the death of the
intestate, his expectancy became impossible of realization, the
money which was to pay the amount claimed had been previously transferred and mingled with another fund, and was no
longer subject to the provisions of that act. Such being the
nature of the intestate's interest in the fund provided by the
law of 1878, there was no right of property in him of which
he or his representative has been deprived.
If the two dollars a month, retained out of the alleged compensation of the police officer, had been in fact paid to him,
and thus become subject to his absolute control, and after
such payment he had been induced to contribute it each month
to a fund on condition that, upon his death, a thousand dollars
should be paid out of it, to his representative, a different question would have been raised, with respect to the disposition of
the fund, or at least of the amount of the decedent's contribution to it. Upon such a question we are not required to
express any opinion. It is sufficient that the two dollars
retained from the police officer each month, though called in

