OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ROBERTSON v. ROSENTHAL.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 57. Argued November 4, 1889. -Decided

December 16, 1889.

Ordinary headless hair-pins, made of steel wire and non wire, when imported
into the United States, are subject to a duty of 45 per cent as "manufactures, articles or wares, not specially enumerated or provided for,"
"composed wholly or in part of iron, steel, copper," etc., and not as
"pins, solid-head, or other."

THE case as stated by the court m the opinion was as follows
This was an action brought to recover duty alleged to have
been illegally exacted by the defendant, as collector of the port
of New York, upon certain merchandise imported by the plaintiffs. It was stipulated on the trial that if the plaintiffs should
be entitled to recover on the main question raised by their protest, a verdict should be entered generally in plaintiffs' favor,
subject to adjustment as to formal requisites and to amount,
at the custom-house, under the direction of the court.
Evidence was given tending to show that on or about July
5th and 'ith, 1884, the plaintiffs imported certain iron wire
and steel wire hair-pins, upon which the collector assessed a
duty of 45 per cent ad valorem, under that part of Schedule C,
section 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by the act of
March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488, 501, c. 121, which reads
"IManufactures, articles or wares, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act, composed wholly or in part of iron,
steel, copper,
and whether partly or wholly manufactured, forty-five per centum ad valorem."
The plaintiffs paid the amount of duty assessed, and protested as follows
"We protest against your decision as to the rate and amount
of duties to be paid on the hair-pins entered by us for consumption July 5, 1884, per Donau 86,888, from Bremen, because

ROBERTSON v. ROSENTHAL.
Statement of the Case.

they are dutiable at 30 per cent ad valorem under tariff
Schedule C, pins, solid-head, or other.
"If not so dutiable they are dutiable under said schedule at
the rates per pound prescribed for the iron or steel wire of
which they are made.
" We pay the excess exacted under compulsion solely to get
the goods."
To sustain the issues upon their part, the plaintiffs introduced Leopold Kramer, who testified that he was an importer
of fancy goods in the house of plaintiffs, and that their business was the general importation of notions, etc., and who
identified the invoices and entries involved in this action, and
also showed that the rate of duty upon said hair-pins, if classified as "Pins, solid-head or other," would not be less than the
rate of duty chargeable upon the iron or steel wire from which
they were made.
Witness testified further as follows "These samples are samples of the articles imported, and are known ordinarily as hairpins. There are also samples of various other kinds of pins
one is a crimping pin, one a solid-head pin, one a pin with a
black head called a bonnet pin, used to fasten shawls; also
diaper pins. They are made of iron wire and steel wire, and
have no heads at all. Diaper pins and crimping pins have not
solid heads. They have no heads."
And on cross-examination "Some pins have heads, but are
not solid-headed pins. Bonnet pins and shawl pins are pins
with heads, but are not solid-headed pins. Those pins [referring to card] are pins with heads, but are not solid-headed
pins." "Q. Are solid-headed pins the ordinary pins that everybody has , Ans. Yes, not everybody I am familiar with
dress-pius. I don't know anything about clothes-pins, except
that there are such things. I know there are linch-pins and
king-pins, for locomotives, but they are not used for the same
purpose as the articles in suit."
Plaintiffs having rested, defendant's counsel moved the court
to direct a verdict for the defendant upon the following
grounds, to wit.
"1st. That. in prior laws pins, solid-head or other, and hair

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opnnon of the Court.

pins were both provided for, which shows that, as Congress
uses the phrase pins, solid-head, or other, it does not include
hair-pins.
"2d. That the phrase pins, solid-head, or other, applies only
to pins with heads of some land.
"3d. Generally, that the evidence does not make out a
case for recovery by the plaintiffs."
Which motion the court denied, to which ruling defendant's
counsel then and there excepted.
The court thereupon charged the jury as follows
"Gentlemen, if you think these articles are pins, according
to the common understanding of the class of pins that are
known as solid-head pins, or other pins, return a verdict for
the plaintiffs, if not, return a verdict for the defendant. You
may take the case."
The jury having returned a verdict for the plaintiffs, and the
amount having been subsequently ascertained as agreed, judgment was entered against the collector accordingly, and the
cause brought here on writ of error.
-Hb' Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
-Mr Edward Rartley (with whom was -Mlr Falter 17. Coleman on the brief) for defendants in error.
Mr. CHIF JusTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
The articles m question were ordinary headless hair-pins,
made of steel wire and iron wire, and'the question is whether
they were dutiable as "pins, solid-head or other."
By section 13 of the act of July 14, 1862, 12 Stat. 555, 557,
c. 163, a duty of five per centum ad valorem, in addition to
then existing duties, was levied on many articles, including
"pins, solid-head or other," and "manufactures, articles, vessels
and wares, not otherwise provided for, of gold, silver, copper,
brass, iron, steel, lead, pewter, tin, or other metal, or of which
either of these metals or any other metal shall be the component material of chief value."

ROBERTSON v. ROSENTHA L .
Opinion of the Court.

By section 21 of the act of July 14, 1870, 16 Stat. 264, c.
255, a duty of fifty per centum ad valorem was levied "on
hair-pins made of iron wire."
Under section 2504, Title XXXIII of the Revised Statutes,
"Schedule M, - Sundries," we find, "air-pins, made of iron
wire fifty per centum ad.valorem." "Pins, solid-head or
other thirty-five per centum ad valorem." 2d ed., pp. 476,
480. And in "Schedule E, - Metals," (p. 465) " Al manufactures of steel, or of which steel shall be a component part,
not otherwise provided for, forty-five per centum ad valorem.
But all articles of steel partially manufactured, or of which
steel shall be a component part, not otherwise provided forshall pay the same rate of duty as if wholly manufactured."
And also (p. 467) " Manufactures, articles, vessels, and wares
or other
iron,
not otherwise provided for, of
steel,) or of which either of these
metal, (except
metals shall be the component material of chief value thirtyfive per centum ad valorem."
In March, 1875, certain imported steel hair-pins having been
held at the port of New York dutiable at fifty per cent ad
valorem, because of their similarity to iron wire hair-pins, the
Treasury Department decided that this was erroneous, and
that they were properly chargeable with the rate of duty applicable to manufactures of steel not otherwise provided for.
Synopsis T. Dec. 1875, p. 56, No. 2140.
By section 2502 of Title XXXIII of the Revised Statutes as
enacted by the act of M arch 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 501, c. 121,
"Schedule 0,- Metals," a duty of thirty per centum ad valorem was levied on "Pins, solid-head or other," and by the
last paragraph in the same schedule, on "Manufactures,
articles, or wares, not specially enumerated or provided for in
or
this act, composed wholly or in part of iron, steel,
any other metal, and whether partly or wholly manufactured
forty-five per centum ad valorem."
It will be perceived that although hair-pins are not mentioned eo nom?,ne, this last paragraph covers iron and steel
hair-pins, as was ruled as to the latter by the department m
1875, in the construction and application of similar language.

