SMITH v. BOLLES.
Statement of the Case.

SMITH v. BOLLES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 47. Argued October 31, 1889.

Decided November 11,1889.

In an action in the nature of an action on the case to recover from the
defendant damages which the plaintiff has suffered by reason of the purchase of stock in a corporation which he was induced to purchase on the
faith of false and fraudulent representations made to him by the defendant, the measure of damages is the loss which the plaintiff sustained by
reason of those representations- such as the money which he paid out
and interest, and all outlays legitimately attributable to the defendant's
fraudulent conduct; but it does not include the expected fruits of an
unrealized speculation.
In applying the general rule that "the damage to be recovered must always
be the natural and proximate consequence of the act complained of"
those results are to be considered proximate which the wrong-doer,
from his position, must have contemplated as the probable consequence
of his fraud or breach of contract.

THE court in its opinion, stated the case as follows:
Richard J Bolles filed his petition against Lewis W Smith
on the twenty-first day of February, 1884, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, to recover damages for alleged fraudulent representations in the
sale of shares of mining stock, in place of which an amended
petition was substituted on the second day of March, 1886,
by leave of court. The amended petition set up five causes
of action First. That in the fall of 1819 defendant and one
Joseph W Haskins entered into a fraudulent combination to
form an incorporated mining company based upon alleged
mining property in the Territory of Arizona, and for the alleged purpose of mining silver ore therefrom and milling the
same for market, that the title to the property was claimed
to be in Haskins, that Hlaskins and others organized said corporation under the laws of New York, by the name of "The
Irene Mill and Mining Company," with a capital of two mil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

lions of dollars, divided into one hundred thousand shares of
twenty dollars each., that Haskins took the whole of the
stock and paid for the same by transferring to the company
the alleged mining property, and apparently for the sum of
two millions of dollars, that Haskms and defendant then represented that sixty thousand shares of said stock were issued to
or paid for by Haskms, and were deposited with'the treasurer of
the company, to be sold to subscribers and purchasers, and the
proceeds to be applied to the construction of a stamp mill to
be connected with the supposed mimng property, and for the
purpose of further sinking the shaft and tunnel then in progress, that the defendant had in connection with Haskins some
interest in the stock, the extent of which was then and is still
unknown to plaintiff, that plaintiff was wholly ignorant of
the value of the stock and of the mining property on which it
was supposed to be based, never having dealt in such stock or
property, that in the month of February, 1880, the defendant applied to him to buy and subscribe for some of the stock,
stating that he was interested in it, and that before acquiring
an interest he had learned from Haskins the enormous value
of the property, and to satisfy himself had gone to Arizona.
and thoroughly examined it, that he then represented to
plaintiff a variety of facts as existing in respect to the mine,
making it of great value, which representations are set forth
in detail, and that having known the defendant for several
years, and believing him to be a truthful and honest man, and
without knowledge or suspicion that said representations were
untrue, but believing and relying on the same, the plaintiff
had, at the request of the defendant, in the month of February, 1880, agreed to buy of the defendant four thousand
shares of the stock, at $1.50 per share, which contract was
completed in the month of March, 1880, by the payment in
full of the purchase price, to wit, six thousand dollars, to one
H. J. Davis, who claimed to act as treasurer of the company,
and from whom plaintiff received certificates for the stock.
Plaintiff then alleged that said representations were each and
all false and fraudulent, specifically denying the truth of each
of them, and averring that "said stock and mining property

SMITH v. BOLLES.
Statement of the Case.

was then, and still is, wholly worthless, and that had the
same been as represented by defendant it would have been
worth at least ten dollars per share, and so plaintiff says that
by reason of the premises he has sustained damages to the
amount of forty thousand dollars." Second. That defendant
made similar false and fraudulent representations to John H.
Bolles, by which the latter was induced to purchase two
thousand shares of the stock, at the price of $1.50 per share,
and was, by reason of the premises damaged to the extent of
six thousand dollars, and that John H. Bolles had transferred
his claim to the plaintiff, who was entitled to recover of defendant said sum. Third. That defendant made similar false
and fraudulent representations to L. W Marsteller, who was
thereby induced to purchase eight hundred shares of said
stock, at the price of two dollars per share, and was damaged
by reason of the.premises to the extent of two thousand dollars, and had transferred his claim to the plaintiff, who was
therefore entitled to recover said sum of the defendant.
Fourth. That the defendant had made similar false and
fraudulent representations to Mrs. Mary Manchester, and induced her, in reliance thereon, 'to purchase two hundred and
twenty-five shares of the stock, at a cost (according to the
original petition) of four hundred and fifty dollars, and she
had incurred damages thereby to the extent of fifteen hundred dollars, that this claim had been assigned to the plaintiff, who was entitled to recover said sum of the defendant.
Fifth. That defendant made similar false and fraudulent representations to one John Van Gassbeck, who was induced
thereby to purchase twenty-five hundred shares of the stock,
at two dollars per share, making five thousand dollars, which
he had paid to defendant, and he was by reason of the premises damaged to the extent of ten thousand dollars; and that
Van Gassbeck had transferred this claim to the plaintiff,
whereby the latter was entitled to recover said sum of the
defendant.
Plaintiff further averred that the aggregate of said damages
amounted to sixty thousand five hundred dollars, for which
he prayed judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.

Defendant answered plaintiff's petition, admitting the incorporation and organization of the "Irene Mill and Mining
Company," but denying all and singular the remaining allegations of the petition, and further set up affirmatively the
statute of limitations.
The second and fourth causes of action as set forth in the
original petition, founded on the claims of John H. Bolles and
Mary Manchester, sought merely a rescission of the contracts
and to recover back all the money they had respectively paid
for shares of stock, but by the amended petition their causes
of action were changed to counts for the recovery of damages
resulting to said John H. and Mary from the alleged false and
fraudlient representations.
The cause was tried by a jury and resulted in a verdict for
the plaintiff, assessing his damages at the sum of eight thousand one hundred and forty dollars, upon which, after a motion
for a new trial had been made by the defendant, and overruled,
judgment was rendered, and the cause was then brought here
on writ of error.
-Mr T T Boynton, (with whom was X1r J C. Hale, and
.r1Edward H.Fitchon the brief,) for plaintiff in error, cited.
Claflin v Commonwealth Ins. Co., 110 U. S. 81,

-Myers v

.Malcolm, 6 Hill, 292, S. .41 Am. Dec. 744, Xioody v Osgood,
50 Barb. 628, 1mncoln v Clajfin, 7 Wall. 132, Castle v Bullard, 23 How 172, Butler v. Watkins, 13 Wall. 456, Walker
v Stetson, 14 Ohio St. 89, S.C. 84: Am. Dec. 362, Bullard
v Boston & .Matne Railroad, 64 New Hampshire, 27, Brown
v Swzneford, 44 Wisconsin, 282, Cleveland PaperCo. v Banks,
15 Nebraska, 20, Grosse v State, 11 Texas App. 377, Conn v
State, 11 Texas App. 390, Willis v JiloYeill, 57 Texas, 465,
Thompson v State, 43 Texas, 268, Unson CentralLife Ins. Co.
v Cheever, 36 Ohio St. 201, State v NVoland, 85 North Carolina, 576, Butler v R/am, 50 Penn. St. 456, People v -Mitchell,
62 California, 411, Tucker v Henniker, 41 New Hampshire,
317, Rolfe v. Rumford, 66 Maine, 564, Winter v. Sass, 19
Kansas, 556, State v Lee, 66 Missouri, 165, State v Zing, 64
Missouri, 591, Wolfe v XAinnis, 74 Alabama, 386, Besette v
State, 101 Indiana, 85, People v. -Dane,59 Michigan, 550.

SMTH v. BOLLES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr' E. T Estep, for defendant in error, cited Hubbardv
Briggs, 31 N. Y 518, Crater v. Brnn?.nger, 33 New Jersey
Law (4 Froom), 573, S. CJ. 97 Am. Dec. 737, ilatcherv State,
18 Georgia, 460, Logan v Monroe, 20 Mame, 257.
MR. CHIEF

TUsTicE FULLER delivered the opinon of the

court.
The bill of exceptions states that the court charged the jury
4Cas to the law by which the jury were to be governed m the
assessment of damages under the issues made in the case,"
that "the measure of recovery is generally the difference between the contract price and the reasonable market value, if
the property had been as represented to be, or in case the
property or stock is entirely worthless, then its value is what
it would have been worth if it had been as represented by
the defendant, and as may be shown in the evidence before
you."
In this there was error. The measure of damages was not the
difference between the contract price and the reasonable market value if the property had been as represented to be, even if
the stock had been worth the price paid for it, nor if the stock
were worthless, could the plaintiff have recovered the value it
would have had if the property had been equal to the representations. What the plaintiff might have gamed is not the
question, but what he had lost by being deceived into the
purchase. The suit was not brought for breach of contract.
The gist of the action was that the plaintiff was fraudulently
induced by the defendant to purchase stock upon the faith of
certain false and fraudulent representations, and so as to the
other persons on whose claims the plaintiff sought to recover.
If the jury believed from the evidence that the defendant was
guilty of the fraudulent and false representations alleged, and
that the purchase of stock had been made in reliance thereon,
then the defendant was liable to respond in such damages as
naturally and proximately resulted from the fraud. He was
bound to make good the loss sustained, such as the moneys
the plaintiff had paid out and interest, and any other outlay
VOL.

x=xn-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

legitimately attributable to defendant's fraudulent conduct,
but this liability did not include the expected fruits of an un-

realized speculation. The reasonable market value, if the
property had been as represented, afforded, therefore, no
proper element of recovery
Nor had the contract price the bearing given to it by the
court. What the plaintiff paid for the stock was properly put
in evidence, not as the basis of the application of the rule in
relation to the difference between the contract price and the
market or actual value, but as establishing the loss he had
sustained in that particular. If the stock had a value in fact,
that would necessarily be applied in reduction of the damages.
"The damage to be recovered must always be the natural
and promemate consequence of the act complained of," says Mr.
Greenleaf, Vol. 2, ยง 256, and "the test is," adds Chief Justice
Beasley in Crater v Bnznger, 33 N. J Law (4 Vroom) 513,
518, "that those results are proximate which the wrong-doer
from his position must have contemplated as the probable
consequence of his fraud or breach of contract." In that
case, the plaintiff had been induced by the deceit of the defendant to enter into an oil speculation, and the defendant
was held responsible for the moneys put into the scheme
by the plaintiff in the ordinary course of the business, which
moneys were lost, less the value of the interest which the
plaintiff retained in the property held by those associated in
the speculation. And see Horne v Walton, 117 Illinois, 130,
Same v Same, 117 Illinois, 141, Slingerland v. Bennett, 66
N. Y 611, Schwabaceer v Riddle, 84 Illinois, 517, Fitzszmmons v. CMpman, 37 Mich. 139.
We regard the instructions of the court upon this subject
as so erroneous and misleading as to require a reversal of the
judgment. The five causes of action covered the purchase of
nine thousand five hundred and twenty-five shares of stock,
for which $16,050 in the aggregate had been paid. The plaintiff did not witlhdraw either of his five counts, or request the
court to direct the jury to distinguish between them. The
verdict was a general one for $8140, and, while it may be
quite probable that the jury did in fact, as counsel for defend-

