]KEYSTONE IRON CO. v. MARTIN.
Opinion, of the Court.

KEYSTON'E AMANGANESE AND IRON COMPANY v.
MARTIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 51. Argued and submitted November 1,1889.-Decided November 11, 1889.

A bill in equity prayed for an injunction restraining the defendant from
trespassing on the land of the plaintiff and taking mineral and ore therefrom, and that he account to the plaintiff for the value of the ore already
taken therefrom. After a hearing on pleadings and proofs, the Circuit
Court made a decree granting a perpetual injunction, and ordering an account before a master- Held, that the decree was not final or appealable.

IN EQuITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

3fb' U 2f Rose and .A& G B. Rose, for appellant, submitted on their brief.
2fr G _Y Tillman. for appellee.
brief for same.
MR.JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

Mi' J -M. Afoore filed a

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, by Matt
Martin against The Keystone Manganese and Iron Company
The bill alleges that the plaintiff, owning a piece of land in
Independence County, Arkansas, conveyed it, in June, 1853,
with other lands, to one Smith and his heirs forever, subject
to the condition that Martin retained to his heirs, representatives and assigns "a perpetual and unlimited right in fee to
all the stones and minerals that may be in or upon said lands,
and full and unquestioned power and right to enter said lands
for the purpose of digging, quarrying and mining upon said
lands, with full power and right of regress and egress thereto
and therefrom, and upon said lands to remain and erect buildings thereon, and to use such timber and other materials as
may be convenient and proper for the excavation, preserva-

OCTOBER TERMV, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, manufacture and removal of such stones and minerals
and improvements as may be connected with the working of
said stones and minerals, it being well understood by the parties hereto that the right of sale and all else is hereby conveyed to said Thomas C. Smith, except the right to the stones
and minerals on said lands, which, with all needful and proper
rights and privileges to obtain, prepare for market and remove
the same, are expressly reserved from sale." The deed was
executed by Martin alone.
The bill further alleges that ever since said deed the plaintiff has been and now is in the possession of the mineral and
ore in and upon the land, that there are large and valuable
deposits of manganese therein, and that the defendant, in
December, 1885, unlawfully entered upon said mineral deposits ahd began to mine and remove therefrom the manganese,
and had carried it away, to the value of more than $5000.
It prays for an injunction restraining the defendant from the
commission of further trespasses during the pendency of the
suit, that an account be had of the quantity and value of
the ore taken by the defendant from the land, and that it be
decreed to account to the plaintiff therefor, and be perpetually enjoined from further trespassing upon the mineral and
ore in the land.
The defendant put in an answer, setting up its right to
mine and remove the manganese ore by virtue of its having
obtained such right, for a specified period of time, from persons who had become the owners of the land through a sale
of it for the non-payment of taxes, and also setting up a statute of limitation.
After a replication, proofs were taken on both sides, and
the Circuit Court decided in favor of the plaintiff upon the
ground that, under the laws of Arkansas in force at the time
the taxes were assessed, for the non-payment of which the
land was sold, it was necessary that the mine, having been
separated from the surface soil, should be separately assessed,
and it could not be sold for taxes, except upon such an assessment, and that neither the mine, nor the mineral in it, was,
in the present case, assessed or sold. The court made a decree

KEYSTONE IRON CO. v. MARTIN.
Opinion of the Court.

perpetually enjoining the defendant from entering upon or
removing the mineral or any part thereof from the land, and
further ordering that an account be taken of the quantity and
value of the mineral and ore already removed by the defendant from the land, and that the defendant account to the
plaintiff for its value, and appointing a master to take said
account and to hear evidence and report the same to the
court. From that decree the defendant has appealed to this
court, and the case has been argued by the appellee on its
merits, and submitted on a printed brief by the appellant.
We think that the decree is not a final decree, and that this
court has no jurisdiction of the appeal. The decree is not
final, because it does not dispose of the entire controversy
between the parties. The bill prays only for an injunction
and an account of the quantity and value of the ore taken
from the land by the defendant. The injunction is granted,
but the account remains to be taken. The case is not one
where nothing remains to be done by the court below except
to execute ministerially its decree. In all cases like the one
before us this court has uniformly held that the decree was
not final and was not appealable.
The principal cases in which it has held that the decree was
not appealable, because not final, are the following- fThe Pa'n v Fourn2guet, 6 How 206,
myra, 10 Wheat. 502, Perk
Pulliamv (hrstian, 6 How 209, Barnardv Gibson, 7 How
650; Craigheadv. Wilson, 18 How 199; Beebe v Russell, 19
How 283, llumsston v Stantho?:p, 2 Wall. 106, Railroad
Co. v Swasey, 23 Wall. 405, Bostwwck v Brznkerhof, 106
U. S. 3, Grant v Phenix Ins. Co., 106 U. S. 429, Datnese v
Eendall, 119 U. S. 53, Parsons v. Robinson, 122 U. S. 112;
while the decree has been held final, for the purposes of an
appeal, in Ray v. Law, 3 Oranch, 179, W-Aiting v Bank of the
United States, 13 Pet. 6, Forgay v Conrad, 6 How 201,
Bronson v Railroad Co., 2 Black, 528, St. Loui Iron Xt.
&o. Railroadv Southern E ress Co., 108 U. S. 24:, Exparte
.Norton, 108 U. S. 237, Winthrop Iron Co. v feeker, 109
U. S. 180.

In The Palmyra, a prize case, the captors had filed a libel in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the District Court, and that court had dismissed it, without
costs and damages against the captors. The Circuit Court
affirmed the decree of restitution, with costs. and damages.
The libellants having appealed to this court, the appeal was
dismissed, on the ground that the decree of the Circuit Court
was not final, Chief Justice Marshall saying "The damages
remain undisposed of, and an appeal may still lie upon that
part of the decree awarding damages. The whole cause is
not, therefore, finally determined in the Circuit Court, and we
are of opimon that the cause cannot be divided so as to bring
up successively distinct parts of it."
In Perkns v Fourmquet, the Circuit Court decreed that
the plamtiifs were entitled to two-sevenths of certain property,
and referred the matter to a master to take and report an
account of it, and reserved all other matters in controversy
until the coming m of the master's report. It was held that
that was not an appealable decree, Chief Justice Taney saying"
"The appellant is not injured by denying him an appeal in
this stage of the proceedings, because these interlocutory
orders and decrees remain under the control of the Circuit
Court, and subject to their revision, until the master's report
comes ii and is finally acted upon by the court, and the whole
of the matters in controversy between the parties disposed of
by a final decree. And, upon an appeal from that decree,
every matter in dispute will be open to the parties in this
court, and may all be heard and decided at the same time."
In Pulliam v Chmstian, a decree of the Circuit Court set
aside a deed made by a bankrupt before his bankruptcy,
and directed the trustees under that deed to deliver over to
the assignee in bankruptcy all the property remaining undisposed of in their hands, but without deciding how far the
trustees might be liable to the assignee for the proceeds of
sales previously made and paid away to the creditors, and
directed an account to be taken of these last-mentioned sums,
in order to a final decree. It was held that the decree was
not appealable, Mr. Justice Mclean saying, "There is no
sale or change of the property ordered which can operate
injuriously to the parties."

KEYSTONE IRON CO. v.

XARTIN.

Opinion of the Court.

In BalrnarAd v Gibson, the suit was one for the infringement
of letters patent. By the decree of the Circuit Court a perpetual injunction was awarded, and it was referred to a master
to ascertain and report the damages which the plaintiff had
sustained. It was held that the aecree was not appealable.
The decree in that case was in all substantial particulars like
the decree in the present case.
In Circtgead v WTison, the decree of the Circuit Court
ascertained the heirship of the plaintiffs and their relative
rights in a succession, but referred it to a master to state
accounts between the plaintiffs and defendants, and ascertain
how much property remained in the hands of the latter, and
how much had been sold, with the prices, and to ascertain
what might be due from either of the defendants to the plaintiffs. It was held that the decree was not appealable.
In Beebe v Russell, the bill prayed that the defendants might
be ordered to convey to the plaintiff certain pieces of property,
which it was alleged they fraudulently withheld from him, and
account for the rents and profits. The Circuit Court decreed
that the defendants should execute certain conveyances and
surrender possession, and then referred the matter to a master
to take an account of the rents and profits, givng instructions
in regard to the manner of taking it. This court stated that
the object of the statute in regard to appeals was to prevent
a case from coming to this court from the courts below in
which the whole controversy had not been determined finally,
and that such final determination might be had in this court,
and that whenever the whole controversy had been determined
by the Circuit Court, and ministerial duties only were to be
performed, although an amount due remained to be ascertained, the decree was final. The decree in that case was held
not to be appealable.
In Humtstom v Staint~wrp, which was a patent suit, the
decree was like that in B rnard v Gibson, and the appeal
was dismissed.
In RailroacZ Co. v Swasey, it was held that a decree of
foreclosure and sale was not final, in the sense which allowed
an appeal from it, so long as the amount due upon the debt

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opumon of the Court.

had not been determined, and the property to be sold had not
been ascertained and defined.
In Boswzck v BPmzkerhof, Chief Justice Waite stated the
principle as follows "The rule is well settled and of long
standing, that a judgment or decree, to be final, within the
mearng of that term as used in the acts of Congress giving
this court jurisdiction on appeals and writs of error, must terminate the litigation between the parties on the merits of the
case, so that if there should be an affirmance here, the court
below would have nothing to do but to execute the judgment
or decree it had already rendered."
This view was repeated in Grant v Pheensx Ins. Co., where
an appeal by the defendant from a decree in a foreclosure suit
was dismissed, the decree neither finding the amount due nor
ordering a sale of the mortgaged property, although it overruled the defence, declared the plaintiff to be the holder of the
mortgage, and, in order to ascertain the amount due to it and
other lien creditors and for taxes, referred the case to a master,
and appointed a receiver to take charge of the property
In Damnese v Kendall, the principle was again asserted
that "a decree, to be final for the purposes of an appeal,
must leave the case m such a condition that if there be an
affirmance here the court below will have nothing to do but
execute the decree it has already entered."
The same view was maintained in Parsons v Ro~nson.
It remains to see the principle upon which this court has
acted in holding decrees to be appealable as final decrees.
In B'ay v Law, it was held that a decree for a sale under a
mortgage was an appealable decree. Of course, this involves
the proposition that the court below had ascertained and fixed
the amount due under the mortgage.
In Ihkting v Bank of the United States, this court held that
a decree of foreclosure of a mortgage and for a sale was a final
decree, and that it was not necessary to the finality of it that
the sale should have taken place and been confirmed. The
court said that if the sale had been completed under the
decree, the title of the purchaser would not have been overthrown or invalidated even by a reversal of the decree, that,

KEYSTONE IRON CO. v. MARTlN.
Opmion of the Court.

consequently, the title of the defendants to the land would
have been extinguished, and their redress upon a reversal
would have been of a different kind from that of a restitution
of the land sold, and that under a decree of foreclosure and
sale, the ulterior proceedings were but a mode of executing
such decree.
A leading case where this court held the decree below to be
final was that of Forgay v Conrad. The decree m that case
ordered that certain deeds be set aside as fraudulent and void,
that certain lands and slaves be delivered up to the plaintiff,
that one of the defendants pay a certain sum of money to the
plaintiff, that the plaintiff have execution for those several
matters, and that the master take an account of the profits of
the lands and slaves and an account of certain money and
notes, and then concluded as follows "And so much of the
said bill as contains, or relates to, matters hereby referred to
the master for a report, is retained for further decree in the
premises, and so much of the said bill as is not now, nor has
been heretofore, adjudged and decreed upon, and which is not
above retained for the purposes aforesaid, be dismissed without prejudice, and that the said defendants do pay the costs."
It was held that that decree was a final decree and appealable,
Ohief Justice Taney saying "And when the decree decides
the right to the property in contest, and directs it'to be delivered up by the defendant to the complainant, or directs it to
be sold, or directs the defendant to pay a certain sum of money
to the complainant, and the complainant is entitled to have
such decree carried immediately into execution, the decree
must be regarded as a final one to that extent, and authorizes
an appeal to this court, although so much of the bill is retained in the Circuit Court as is necessary for the purpose of
adjusting by a further decree the accounts between the parties pursuant to the decree passed."
In Bronson v Railroad Co., it was held that a decree for
the sale of mortgaged premises was a final decree, settling the
merits of the controversy, and that the subsequent proceedings were simply a means of executing the decree. The
same principle was applied in St. Louts, Iron -Mountatn &
VOL. 0_1=II-7

