OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

AYERS v. WATSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN"DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 119. Argued November 18,1889.-Decided December 9, 1889.

Before former declarations of a witness can be used to impeach or.contradict his testimony, his attention must be drawn to what may be brought
forward for that purpose, with particularity as to time, place and circumstance, so that he can deny it, or make any explanation tending to
reconcile what he formerly said with what he is testifying.
After a witness' testimony has been taken, committed to writing and used
in the court, and by death he is placed beyond the power of explanation,
then, in another trial had after his death, former declarations by hun,
whether by deposition or otherwise, contradictory to those made by him
in that testimony cannot for the first time be brought forward and used
to impeach it.

THIs is the same cause brought here and heard at October
term, 1884, and reported 113 U. S. 594. The case now made
is thus stated in the opimon of the court.
This is an action of ejectment brought by Watson, the original plaintiff, in the District Court for the county of Bell, in
the State of Texas, and afterwards removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of that
State. It was twice tried before a jury, which failed in each
of these trials to come to an agreement. It was tried a third
tune, which resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. A writ of error was taken to that judgment, by which
it was brought to this court and reversed. The case is reported as Ayers v Matson, 113 U S. 594. It was thereupon
remanded to the Circuit Court for a new trial, where a verdict
was again had for the plaintiff, and the judgment rendered on
that verdict is before us for review
The details of the controversy may be .found in the report
of the case above mentioned. While it was pending in the
District Court of Bell County the following agreement between the parties was made, which simplifies the case very
much

AYERS v. WATSON.
Statement of the Case.

I

"A. E. Watson
tV.

)

Frank Ayers, et al.
"It is agreed and admitted by the defendants, for the purpose of this trial at this term of the court, that A. E. Watson,
plaintiff in this cause, is entitled to all the right, title and interest granted by the State of Texas to the heirs of Walter W
Daws on September 16, A.D. 1850, said land patented being onethird of a league, described m said patent No. 54:2, vol. 8, and
which said land is described m plaintiff's petition, but defendants say that said on6-third of a league of land so patented as
aforesaid to the heirs of Walter W Daws is covered by the
grant of the government of Coahuila and Texas to Maxuno
Moreno of eleven leagues of land, as set forth more fully in
defendants' petition, which said eleven-league grant is an
older and superior title to that of plaintiff, and the title to
which is m the'defendants m this cause.
"X. B. SAumNxms,
"W T. :RucKEE,
"F K. SLEEPER, and

"A. M. MoNTEiTiH,
"Att's for defendants."
By this agreement it will be seen that the sole question at
issue was whether the land in controversy was covered by the
eleven-league grant to Maxno Moreno. A plat of that survey is found in the bill of exceptions. On the trial which resulted in the judgment, which we are now called to reconsider,
and which, as we understand it, was the fourth time the case
had been tried by a jury, the defendant introduced the deposition of F W Johnson, the surveyor who had made the survey under the Moreno grant. It seems that his deposition had
been taken twice in this action, and, though the details of
those trials are not before us, it had no doubt been used in
them. But prior to the trial which we are now reviewing, he
had died. It appears from the bill of exceptions that in these
depositions he had been cross-examined by plaintiff's counsel. Plaintiff m rebuttal to this testimony of Johnson offered

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

m evidence a deposition of the said Johnson taken in 1860, in
a suit between other parties, in which his testimony with regard to the matters to which he testified in the depositions
offered by defendant varied materially from these latter depositions. To the introduction of tbis deposition of 1860 the
defendants objected, and, their objection being overruled, took
this exception. As we think the judgment of the court below
must be reversed on account of this ruling, all that relates to
it in the bill of exceptions is here reproduced
"It was admitted by both parties that the upper and lower
corners on the river of the Maximo MQreno 11-league grant
are extant as called for in the original grant to -Maximo
Moreno, and their corners are not in dispute.
"The defendant read in evidence the depositions of F W
Johnson, taken in 1878 and 1880, in which he testified that he
was principal surveyor for Austin's colony
The first
survey made was the Maximo Moreno 11-league survey This
survey was commenced at the point opposite the mouth of the
Lampasas River, as called for in the field-notes of the grant,
and a line was run thence on the course called for in the grant
the distance called for, the chain being used to measure the
distance. The northwest or second corner called for in the
grant was thus established by him, the distance giving out in
the prairie. In running the west line I made an offset to avoid
crgssing the Leon River, which was about 50 or 60 vrs. wide.
This offset was made. soon after leaving the beginning corner,
there being a peculiar bend in the river at that point. From
the northwest corner thus established the second line was run
the course and distance called for in the grant. Several streams
were crossed on this line at distances not now recollected, and
the northeast corner established on two small hackberries in
Cow Creek bottom. From the northeast or third corner so established a line was run in the course called for in the grant to
San Andres River. This last line was marked but not measured, because it was not usual or necessary to measure the
closing line.
"It was admitted by the defendant that the distance as
measured on the ground from the northeast corner to a creek

AYERS v. WATSON.
Statement of the Case.

called for in the grant was some four thousand varas more than
the distance called for, that is, the distance is 7500 instead of
3500 vrs., and on cross-examination, being asked to account
for the discrepancy, said the distances called on that line were
not measured but guessed at. No part of the east line was
measured. The exterior lines were marked with blazes. The
corner trees and bearing trees, where there were such, were
marked with blazes, with two hacks above and two below In
answer to question, on cross-examination, he said that he did
not begin the survey at the southeast corner, but he began at
the southwest corner, at the three forks at the mouth of the
Lampasas, and actually traced the lines in the order set forth
in the field-notes. The field-book containing the same, which
I kept, I examined, which I don't remember to examine until
a month ago, and as hereinbefore stated.
"The plaintiff, in rebuttal to Johnson's testimony, as above
set forth, it appearing that said Johnson died in 1881, offered
to read in evidence a deposition of said Johnson, taken in 1S60,
in a certain suit then pending in Bell County, Texas, wherein
David Ayers was plaintiff and Lancaster was defendant, in
which he stated in answer to question therein propounded that
he began the Moreno survey at the southeast corner and ran
thence northerly The north line was then run westwardly,
and the third, if run at all, was run southwardly to the river.
I am of the opinibn that no western line was run, but was left
open, but the eastern and northern lines were run and ineasured. It was not usual to measure the closing line. To the
reading of which last-mentioned deposition, proven to be in
the handwriting of Johnson, taken in 1860, the defendants objected upon the ground that the deposition had been taken in
another and different cause, between other parties, before the
institution of this suit, and the same witness having testified
in answer to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories propounded herein in 1877 and 1880, respectively, it was not competent as original evidence nor admissible to contradict or nnpeach the testimony of the witness Johnson, as given in his
deposition read by the defendants, notwithstanding the death
of Johnson, which objection the court overruled and admitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the testimony so objected to, to which ruling of the court the
defendants then and there excepted and still except, and the
same is allowed as exception No. 1."
.AIr William E Earle for plaintiffs in error.
-Up IF Hallett Phill.ps for defendant in error.
We submit that the deposition of Johnson was .properly
admitted as evidence to go to the jury with the other evidence
in the case, in order to enable them to ascertain the disputed
lines of the Moreno survey, which had been run by the party
making the deposition.
The precise point was determined in favor of the admissibility of the evidence, by Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the
opinion of the Supreme Court of California in the case of
.Morton v Folger, 15 California, 275, 277. See also Cornwall
v Culver, 16 California, 423. The rule is well settled in Texas
that such a deposition is admissible. George v Thomas, 16
Texas, 74, . C. 67 Am. Dec. 612, Stroud v AS~pngfeld, 29
Texas, 649, Welder v Carroll, 29 Texas, 317, Evans v Hunt,
34- Texas, 111, Smiith v Russell, 37 Texas, 247, Blunt v
Evans, 49 Texas, 311, Coleman v Smith, 55 Texas, 254,
Tucker v Smith, 68 Texas, 473.
The record shows that the deposition now in question was
taken in a suit wherein David Ayers was plaintiff and Lancaster was defendant. It also shows by the answer of one
of the defendants, that the plaintiff in error, Frank H. Ayers,
claims title to the tract in question through David Ayers.
The deposition, it thus appears, was taken in a suit in which
the present plaintiff in error, Frank H. Ayers, was in privity
with the plaintiff in that action, David Ayers.
Under the rule stated in the cases relied on by plaintiff in
error, the deposition was admissible in the present suit. The
answer of Anderson containing the statement of the derivation
of title, was filed in order to compel his landlord and warrantor, Frank H. Ayers, to come in and defend the title. This
Ayers accordingly did and set up title to the land in con-

AYERS v. WATSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

troversy Hall, another tenant of Ayers, was also a party
defendant. He filed no answer and judgment went against
him, as of course. He is, however, joined in the writ of error.
The privity being established, it is not necessary that the

parties m the two suits should be identical. Phi., Wdilm. &
Balt. Railrond v. iloward, 13 How 307.
The depositions of Johnson, made as far back as 1880, at a
former trial of the present case, were admitted by the court
at the instance of the plaintiff in error. The deposition which
he made on the same subject matter in the previous suit, and
offered by defendant m error, we submit, was equally admissible.
But what does the deposition objected to contain, and what
bearing did it have on the determination of the case 2 That is
the real inquiry
If the subject matter of the deposition became wholly immaterial in the progress of the cause, its admission cannot support an assignment of error, even if it had been erroneousThe plaintiff in error recognizes this fact, and endeavors to
meet it. He says that "the erroneous admission of this evidence led the court below into a string of errors." But when
he comes to point out any particular error it will be seen to
consist in that portion of the charge of the court which he.
specifies, as follows: "If, however, in your judgment, the
proof m this case is not sufficient to enable you to fix the
point where said two hackberries called for in the field notes
of the original surveyor stood, and the proof does not satisfy
you that the west and north lines were actually run and
measured by the original surveyor, you may fix the north line
of this grant in either of these two ways, adopting that one of
these two ways which, in your judgment, from the proof will
so fix said north line as will most nearly harmonize all the
calls of the grant with the corners and lines that are established, namely You may begin at the S. W corner on the
river and find the northwest corner by the course and distance
of the first line, and extend the second line for the north or
back line so as to intersect the east line (a line run N. 200 E.
from the S. E. corner on the river, or you may begin at the S.

OCTOBER TERM4, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

E. corner on the river and follow thence the east line N. 20' E.
the distance called for in the field-notes for said line 26,400
varas), and as much farther as the proof satisfies you that said
line was actually marked on the ground by the orginal surveyor
and at a poznt beyond whbch the prooffails to show to your
satisfaction that thw line was marked by Johnson. You may
fix the N. E. corner and thence extend the line N. -70' W to
the west line of said grant as the north or back line of said
grant, and if the north or back line as fixed by you does not
cut the Daws survey you will find for the plaintiff, if it does
cut said survey you will find for the defendant."
The court had, in a previous portion of the charge, directed
the jury as follows, no exception was taken to such part of the
charge "In order to reconcile or elucidate the calls of a survey in seeking to trace and fix the lines upon the ground, you
axe not required to begin at the corner called for in the grant
as the 'beginning corner. The corner so named as the beginning corner does not control more than any other corner
actually well ascertained and established, nor are you constrained to follow the calls of the grant in the order that said
calls stand recorded in the field-notes, but you may reverse the
calls and trace the lines the other way, and should do so if
from your view of the proof to so reverse the calls will aid
you to so fix the boundaries of the Maximo Moreno grant as
will most nearly harmonize all the calls m the grant with the
corners and lines that are established, and with the object of
the grant."
This portion of the charge, it must be admitted, stated correctly a general rule of law applicable to the case.
The whole deposition of Johnson, objected to, is as follows
"That he began the Moreno survey at the southeast corner
and ran thence northerly The north line was then run westwardly, and the third, if run at all, was run southwardly to
the river. I am of the opinion that no western line was
run at all, but was left open, but the eastern and
northern line were run and measured. It was not usual to
measure the closing line."
Nothing said in this deposition, we submit, had any effect

AYERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

upon anything material said by the court in any portion of
the charge excepted to, nor did its admission in any way harm
the plaintiff in error. 'Whether the east line was or was not
the first line run, was immaterial, nor as the court charged
were the jury obliged to begin at the corner called for m the
grant as the "beginning corner."
The questions arising under the conflict of evidence as to the
true location of the northern line of the Moreno survey were
properly left to the jury, and the deposition of Tohnson did
not affect these questions nor add anything to the evidence regarding them.
The points touched in the deposition were not those upon
which the case went off, and we submit that its admission
neither affected what the court charged nor what it refused to
charge.
M

.

-usTicE MnTi

n, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
A very earnest and able argument is presented to us to sustamn this ruling, upon the general ground of the liberality of
courts in admitting what would be otherwise called hearsay
evidence in regard to boundaries, such as tradition, general
understanding in the neighborhood, declarations of persons
familiar with the boundaries and with the objects on the lines
of the survey, and others of similar character. An opinion of
Mr. Justice Field, delivered in the Supreme Court of California
in 1860, in the case of forto v. Folger, 15 California, 275, is
much relied on in this case, and it is also said that the courts
of the State of Texas have established the same principle,
which has thus become a rule of property in that State, which
should be followed in this case. If the principle stated in the
decision of the California court, and in the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State of Texas, were indeed applicable
to the case before us, we would hesitate very much in reversing the judgment on this ground, and, indeed, should be inclined, on the weight of those authorities, and in the belief that
in the main they are sound, to overrule the exception. But
VOL. cxxx-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the objection in the present case to the deposition of Johnson,
taken in 1860, does not rest upon the ground that it is hearsay
testimony, or that it does not come within the general principle
which admits declarations of persons made during their lifetime of matters important to the location of surveys and objects showing the line of those surveys. Johnson's deposition
of 1860, if it stood alone and was introduced upon the trial of
this case for the first time as independent testimony in favor
of plaintiffs, might be admissible. It is not necessary to decide
that question, because such is not the character of the circumstances under which the testimony was admitted. As we have
already said, there had been three trials of this action, during
which Johnson was alive and was a competent witness for
either party All his testimony was given by way of deposition. This only renders the manner of taking it more deliberate, and if it was to be contradicted by anything he had said
on former occasions, made it the more easy and'reasonable
that plaintiff should have called his attention to the former
statements which they proposed to use. It will be observed
that the plaintiffs did not introduce, or offer to introduce, this
deposition of Johnson of 1860 as a part of their case, when it
was their duty to introduce their testimony They, therefore,
did not rely on it as independent testimony m their favor.
But after Johnson's deposition had been given in the case itself,
and he had been cross-examined by the plaintiffs in that deposition in regard to his testimony, and after he was dead and
could give no explanation of his previous testimony of 1860,
which might show a mistake in that deposition, or give some
satisfactory account of it consistent with his testimony in the
principal case, this old deposition is for the first time brought
forward to contradict the most important part of his testimony
given on the present trial. The importance of this matter as
it was presented to the jury will be readily understood when
we revert to the fact that the two southern corners of the survey are established without question and are found on the San
Andres River, and the controversy concerns the question
whether the east line and the west line of that survey, which
are straight lines almost due north, extend so far north that

AYERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the northern line between these lines isso far north as to inelude the survey of Daws under which plaintiff claims. In the
principal deposition of Johnson, as we have seen by the bill of
exceptions, he states that this survey commenced at the southwestern corner on the San Andres :River and was run northward the distance called for in the grant, and actually measured by the chain. The northwest or second corner called for
in the grant was established by him, the distance giving out in
the prairie. From the northwest corner thus established, the
second, the line was run for the course and distance called for
in the grant, and the northeast corner established on two small
hackberries on Cow Creek bottom. From the northeast or
third corner thus established, the course was run to the San
Andres River. This last line was marked but not measured,
because it was not necessary to measure the closing line. In
answer to questions on cross-examination, he said he did not
begin at the southeast corner but he began at the southwest
corner, and actually traced the lines in the order set forth in
the field-notes. He said the field-book containing these notes
"I kept and examined, which I do not remember to have examined till a month ago, as hereinbefore stated." The deposition offered by plaintiff states distinctly that he began the
Moreno survey at the southeast corner, and ran thence northerly The north line was then run westwardly, and the third,
if run at all, was run southward to the river. And he further
says: "I am of the opinion that no western line was run but
was left open, but the eastern and northern lines were run and
measured. It was not usual to measure the closing line." It
was admitted that the distance as measured on the ground
from the northeast corner to a creek called for m the grant
was some four thousand varas more than the distance called
for, and the witness on cross-examinations in the principal depositions read by the defendant in this case, being asked to account for this discrepancy, said "The distances called on that
line were not measured but guessed at. No part of the east
line was measured." The discrepancy between these two depositions is manifest, and that discrepancy is in a matter which
relates directly to the question whether the Moreno grant as it

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

was surveyed included the land embraced within the Daws
grant, under which plaintiff asserts claim. If the jury believed in the truth of the depositions of Johnson taken by the
derendant in this case, at which he was cross-examined by the
plaintiff, it affords the strongest evidence that the Daws claim
was included in the lines of the Moreno survey This deposition is supported by the field-notes and by the reference of
Johnson himself to those field-notes a very little while before
he gave his deposition. If, on the contrary, the eastern line
was the one which was actually run and measured, beginning
at the southeast corner of the survey on the San Andres River,
then the fact that that line was actually run and measured
would probably have, a very great influence in the mind of the
-juryon the question in issue. And whether this was so or not,
the contradictory statements of Johnson under oath might destroy the value of his testimony before the jury
The circumstances under which the former statements of a
witness in regard to the subject matter of his testimony when
examined in the principal case can be introduced to contradict
or impeach his testimony, are well settled, and are the same
-whetherhis testimony in the principal case is given orally in
court before the jury or is taken by deposition afterwards read
to them. In all such cases, even where the matter occurs on
the spur of the moment in a trial before a jury, and where the
objectionable testimony may then. come for the first time to
the knowledge of the opposite party, it is the rule that before
those former declarations can be used to impeach or contradict
the witness, his attention must be called to what may be
brought forward for that purpose, and this must be done with
great particularity as to time and place and circumstances, so
that he can deny it, or make any explanation, intended to
reconcile what he formerly said with what he is now testifying. While the courts have been somewhat liberal in giving
the opposing party an opportunity to present to the witness the
matter in which they propose to contradict him, even going
so far as to permit him to be recalled and cross-examined on
that subject after he has left the stand, it is believed that in
no case has any court deliberately held that after the witness's

AYERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

testimony has been taken, committed to writing and used in
the court, and by his death he is placed beyond the reach of
any power of explanation, then in another trial such contradictory declarations, whether by deposition or otherwise, can
be used to impeach his testimony Least of all would this
seem to be admissible in the present case, where three trials
had been had before a jury, in each of which the same testimony of the witness Johnson had been introduced and relied
on, and in each of which he had been cross-examined, and no
reference made to his former deposition nor any attempt to
call his attention to it. This principle of the rule of evidence
is so well understood that authorities are not necessary to
be cited. It is so well stated, with its qualifications and the
reasons for it, by Xr. Greenleaf in his work on Evidence, vol.
1, in ยง 462 and 464 inclusive, that nothing need be added to
it here except a reference to the decisions cited in his notes to
those sections. See also Tlew. v McGee, 25 Texas, Supplement,
20, 32.
It will thus be seen that the principle on which counsel
for plaintiff in error objected to this deposition of Johnson is
not in conflict with the case of Xrotom v Folger,in 15 California, 275, nor with any case to which we are cited, decided by the
Supreme Court of Texas. That ground, as stated in the bill
of exceptions, is "that the deposition had been taken in
another and different cause, between other parties, before the
institution of tns suit, and the same witness having testified
in answer to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories propounded herein in 1877 and 1880, respectively, it was not
competent as original evidence, nor admissible to contradict
or impeach the testimony of the witness Johnson, as given in
his deposition read by the defendant, notwithstanding the death
of Johnson."
We are very clear that the deposition of 1860 was improperly admitted, and its important relation to the issue tried by
the jury was such that the judgment rendered on it must be
reversed, and the verdict set aside and a new trial granted.
There are other assignments of error, the consideration of
which is not necessary in the decision of the case before us,

