SHEPHERD v. THOMPSON.
Syllabus.

Sibley with this stock at its par value, and interest. Upon
the true construction of the partnership agreement, and the
proofs in the case; this exception was rightly overruled by
the Circuit Court, because this stock was never received by
Sibley as cash, or accepted by him as his own property in
part payment of the sums due him from the other partners,
but was received and afterwards held by him as property
of the partnership, belonging to all the partners in the proportions stipulated in the original agreement.
The further objection has been taken for the first time in
this court, that the bill cannot be maintained, because the
evidence shows an account stated between Sibley and Simonton, an which an action at law would lie. It is a sufficient
answer to this objection, that the evidence does not show,
and the master has not found, that an account was rendered
by the one party and assented to by the other, but only that
Sibley rendered to Simonton a statement of the account
between them, which was not treated by either as an account
stated, nor ever agreed to or settled, but remained open at
the death of Simonton, and until its truth was established by
the evidence in this suit against his executrix to settle the
accounts of the partnership.
.Decree affirnwd.

SHEPHERD v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued April 25, 28,1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

A promissory note, secured by mortgage of the same date, Is not taken out
of the statute of limitations, as against the debtor, by a writing signed
by him, by which "in consideration of the indebtedness described in
the" mortgage, a claim of his against the government, and its proceeds,
are "pledged and made applicable to the payment of said indebtedness,
with interest thereon at the rate of eight per cent per annum until
paid,?' and he promises that those proceeds shall cbe applied to the payment of said indebtedness, with interest as aforesaid, or to so much
thereof as" those proceeds "are suffciefit to pay."

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

When exceptions taken by the plaintiff to a ruling in favor of the defendant
at one trial have been erroneously sustained and a new trial ordered, and
a contrary ruling upon the'same point at the second trial has been erroneously affirmed upon exceptions taken by the defendant, this court, upon
a writ of error sued out by him, will not, on reversing the judgment of
affirmance, direct judgment to be entered on the first verdict, but will
only order that the second verdict be set aside and another trial had.

THis was an action brought March 11, 1880, by John W.
Thompson against Alexander R. Shepherd, upon two promissory notes, dated March 10, 1873, made by the defendant and
payable to the plaintiff, the one for $7000 in two years, and
the other for $8000 in three years, with interest at the yearly
rate of eight per cent. The defendant pleaded the statute of
limitations.
The record transmitted to.this court showed that the case
was tried twice, and that at each trial the plaintiff put in .the
foll6wing evidence: 1st. The notes sued on. 2d. A deed of
trust of the same date, in the usual form of mortgages of real
estate in the District of Columbia, and recorded in the land.
records for the District, liber 712, folio 128, by which the defendant conveyed to the plaintiff certain land described, in
trust to secure the payment of these and one other note. 3d.
A- deed, dated November 15, 1876, by which the defendant
conveyed his property and choses in action, including a claim
against the United States for the use and occupation of the
premises No. 915 E Street Northwest in the city of Washington, to George Taylor and others, in trust to apply for
the benefit of his creditors. 4th. An instrument signed by
the defendant and A. 0. Bradley, assented to in writing by
Taylor and his co-trustees, the body of which was as follows: "
"In bonsideration of the indebtedness described in the deed
of trust to William Thompson, trustee, executed March 10,
1873 and recorded in liber No. 712, folio 128, of the land
repords of the-District of Columbia, the demand and claim of
A. C. Bradley to the use of A. R. Shepherd and others
against the United States for the, use and occupation of the
premises No. 915 E Street Northwest, and all the proceeds

SHEPHERD. v. THOMPSON. ,
Argument for Defendant in Error.

thereof and the moneys derived, therefrom, are heeby pledged
and made applicable to the payment of said indebtedness,
with interest thereon at the rate of eight per cent per annum
until paid; and it is hereby covenanted and: agreed that
any draft or check issued in payment or part payment of
'said claim shall be indorsed and .delivered to the$ trustee
named in said trust, and the proceeds thereof, less all proper
costs and charges, be applied to the payment of said indebtedness, with interest as aforesaid, or to so nmuch thereof as the
sum or sums of money so received is or are sufficient to pay.
Witness our hands this 21st day of June, 1877."
At the first trial, the judge ruled that this instrument Was
insufficient to take the case out of the statute of limitations,
and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the defendant,
which , up6n a bill of exceptions of the plaiutiff, were set aside
at the general term. 1 Mfackey, 385.
At the second trial, the judge, against the objection and exception of the defendant, instructed the- jury that this instrument was evidence of a new"promise, which took the notes
sued on out of the statute of limitations. A verdict and judgment were rendered for the plaintiff, and a bill of exceptions
to this instruction was tendered and allowed. This judgment
was affirmed in general term, and the defendant sued out this
writ of error.
.Mr'. Andrew C'. Bradley and Mr. W'illim F. .attingly
for plaintiff in error, among other points, made the following:
It is submitted that the court below erred -in setting' aside
the verdict in the first trial because of the rejection of the
assignment by the trial justice, and that it erred in admitting
the assignment in evidence, and that the judgment should be'
reversed and the cause'r~manded to the court below, with
directions to enter judgment upon the first verdict. Couglin
v. Di trict of Cohimbia,106 U. S. '7.
for defendant in error (3Y. IT H
MrA. Xatrtin. HI ffor
TFeZZs was with him on the brief) lamong other points made
the following:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

It i8 objected that the so-called assignment does not contain
any such acknowledgment of the indebtedness as that the law
would imply from it a new promise to pay it. The assignmpnt distinctly acknowledges and recognizes the indebtedness
by reference to another paper; in which that indebtedness is
specifically described, and which is in evidence in the case. It
distinctly promises to pay that indebtedness; and it distinctly
gives security for the payment of' it. What more than this
could be required to constitute a new promise? Was therb
ever a new promise more distinctly and unequivocally and
solemnly evidenced? The evidence is not by loose talk, but
by a carefully drawn instrument in writing. If this paper is
not evidence of a new promise, it is impossible to draw a paper
that would be. If it be necessary to refer to elementary" law
on the subject of what constitutes a new promise, we would
cite, among other authorities, the following: MAloore v. Bank
of Columbia, 6 Pet. 86; Bell v. forrison,1 Pet. 351; Ban,
don v. Toby, 11 How.493; Walsk v. .ayer, 111 'U.S. 31.
Mr. JUSTinE GnAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The statute of limitations in foice in the District of Columbia is the-statute of Maryland, which, so far as applicable to
this case, closely follows the language of the English St. 21
Jac.- I, c. 16, ยง 3, but bars an action on a promissory note or
other simple contract in three years after the cause of action
accrues. Maryland Stat. 1715, c. 23, ยง 2, 1 KIlty's Laws; Dist.
Col. Laws, 1868, p. 284.
The promissory notes sued on were payable respectively on
March 10, 1815,. and March 10, 1876; and the action Was
brought March 11, 1880. The question is, therefore, whether
the instrument signed by the defendant on June 21, 1877, is
evidence of a sufficient acknowledgment or promise to take
the case out of the statute.
The principles of law, by which this case is to be governed,
are clearly settled by a series of decisions of this court. The
statute of limititions is to be upheld and enforced, not as rest-

SHEPHERD v. THOMPSON.
Opinion oi the Court.

ing only on a presumption of payment from lapse of time,
but, according to its intent and object, as a statute of repose.
The original debt, indeed, is a sufficient legal c6nsideration for
a subsequent new promise to pay it,' made either. before or
after the bar of the statute is complete. But in order to continue or to revive the cause of action, after it would otherwise
have been barred by the statute, there must be either an express promise of the debtor to pay that debt, or else an express
acknowledgment of the debt, from which his promise to pay
it may be inferred. A mere acknowledgment, though in writing, of the debt as having once existed, is not sufficient to
raise an implication of such a new promise. To have this
effect, there must be a distinct and unequivocal acknowledgment of the debt as still subsisting as a personal obligatioii of
the debtor.
In -ing v. Biddle, 7 Cranch, 168, a deed, dated July 15,
180-, by which the defendant recited that certain persons had
become his sureties for a certain debt and had paid it, and that
he was desirous to secure them as far as he could, and assigned
to one of them certain bonds in trust to collect the money and
distribute it equally among them, was admitted in evidence in.
an action by one of them against him for money paid, to take
the case out of the statute of limitations of Virginia. The
exact form of the deed is not stated in the report, but that it
expressly recognized the debt to-the plaintiff to be still due is
evident from the opinion, in which Chief Justice MNarshall "'
said: "Although the court is not willing to extend the effect
of casual or accidental expressions farther than it has been to,
take a case out of that statute, and although the court might'
be of opinion that the cases on that point have gone too far,
yet this is not a casual or incautious expression: the deed admits the debt to be due on the 15th of July, 1804, and five
years had not afterwards elapsed before the suit was brought."
7 Oranch, 171.
In Cements= v. Willim , 8 Crunch, 72,in an action on an
account against two partners, one of whom only was served
with process, a previous statement of the other, upon the
account being presented to him, "that the said account was

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

due, and that he supposed it had been-paid by the dofendant,
but had not paid it himself, and did not know of its being ever
paid," was held insufficient to take the account out of the statute; and Chief Justice Marshall said: "The statute of. limitations is entitled to the same respect with other statutes, and
ought not to be explained away. In this case there, is no
promise, conditional or unconditional; but a simple acknowledgment. . This acknowledgment goes to the original justice
of the account; but this is not enough. The-statute of limitations was not exacted to protect persons from claims fictitious
in their origin, but from ancient claims, whether well or ill
founded, which may have been discharged, but the evidence of
discharge may be lost. It is not then sufficient to take the
case out of the act, that the claim should be proved or be acknowledged to have been originally just; the acknowledgment
must go to the fact that it is still due." 8 Cranch, 14.
Chief Justice Marshall afterwards pointed out that in that
case, although the partnership had been dissolved before the
statement was made, the case was not determined 'upon that
point, but upon the insufficiency of the acknowledgment; and
added that, upon the principles there expressed by the court,
"an acknowledgment which will-revive the original cause of
action must be unqualified and unconditional. It must show
positively that the debt is due in whole or in part. If it be
connected with circumstances which in any manner affect the.
claim, or if it be conditional, it may amount to a new assumpsit for which the old debt is a sufficient consideration; or if it
be construed to revive the original debt, that revival is conditional, and the performance of the condition, or a readiness to
perform it, must be shown." WetzeZ v. Bussard, 11 Wheat.
309, 315.
In Bell v. Xorrison, 1 Pet. 351, Mr. Justice Story fully discussed the subject, and, after dwelling on the importance of
giving the statute of limitations such support as to make it.
"what it was intended to be, emphatically, a statute of repose," and "not designed merely to raise a presumption of
payment of a just debt, from lapse of time;" and repeating
the passages above quoted from the opinions in Clementson v.

SHEPHERD v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

7illiamns and WFetzell v. Bssdrd, said: "We adhere to the
doctrine thus stated, and think it the only exposition of the
statute, which is consistent with its true object and import.
If the bar 'is sought to be removed by the proof of a new
promise, that promise, as a new cause of action, ought to be
proved in a clear and explicit manner, and be in its terms unequivocal and determinate; and, if any conditions are annexed,
they ought to be shown to be performed. If there be no express promise, bjut a promise is to be raised by implication of
law from the acknowledgment of the party, such acknowledgment ought to contain an unqualified and dirdet admission of
a previous, subsisting debt, which the party is liable and willing to pay. If there be accompanying circumstances, which
repel the presumption of a promise or intention to pay; if the
expressions be equivocal, vague and indeterminate, leading to
no certain conclusion, but at best to probable inferences, which
may affect different minds in different ways; we think they
ought not to go to a jury as evidence of a new promise'to
revive the cause of action." 1 Pet. 362.
Again, in .Aoore v. Bank of Columbia, 6 Pet. 86, the court,
speaking by Mr. ustice Thompson, after referring to the previous cases, re-affirmed the same doctrine, and said: "The
principle clearly to be deduced from these cases is, that in
addition to the admission -of a present, subsisting debt, there
must be either an express promise to pay, or circumstances
from which an implied promise may fairly be presumed." 6
Pet. 93.
In Bandon v. Toby, 11 How. 493, cited for the plaintiff, the
agreement, which was held to take a case out of the statute,
contained not only a pledge of property to secure the notes
sued on, but an express stipulation that the notes should remain in as full force and effect as if they were renewed.
In Walsk v. 3fayer, 111 U. S. 31, in answer to a letter from
the holder of a note secured by mortgage, calling attention to
the want of insurance on the mortgaged property, and saying,
"The amount you owe me on the $7500 note is too large to be
left in such an unprotected condition, and I cannot consent to
it," the mortgagors wrote to him that they expected to insure

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in about four months for twice that amount, and added, "We
think you will run no risk in that time, as the property would
be worth the amount due you if the building was to burn
down." This was held to be a sufficient acknowledgment,
upon the ground that the words, both of the plaintiff's letter
and of the defendants' reply, were in the present tense, and
designated a subsisting personal liability, and that the unconditional acknowledgment of that liability, without making any
pledge of property or other provision for its payment, carried
an implication of a personal promise to pay it. The case was
decided upon its own facts, and no intention to modify the
principles established by the previous decisions was expressed
or entertained by the court.
Within a year afterwards, in the latest case on the
subject,
the court expressly re-affirmed those principles. -FortScott v.
Hfickman, 112 U. S. 150, 163, 164.
In full accord with these views are the decisions in England
under St. 9 Geo. IV, c. 14, known as Lord Tenterden's Act,
which only restricts the mode of proof by requiring that, in
order to continue or revive the debt, an "acknowledgment or
promise shall be made by or contained in some writing to be
signed by the party chargeable thereby."
The English judges have repeatedly approved the statement
of Mr. (afterwards Chief Justice) Jervis, that the writing
must either contain an express promise to pay the debt, or, be
"in terms from which an unqualified promise to pay it is
necessarily to be implied." Everett v. Robertson, 1 El. & El.
16, 19; .1itchell's Case, 1. R. 6 Oh. 822, 828; .Morgan v.
Rowlamc , L. R. 7 Q. B. 493, 497; cithig Jervis's New Rules
(4th ed.), 350, note. And it has been often Jeld that when
the debtor, in the same writing by which he acknowledges
the debt, without expressly promising to pay it, agrees that
certain property shall be applied to its payment, there can be
no implication of a personal promnise to pay. 1?outledge v.
Ram ay, 8 Ad. & E. 221; 5. C. 3 Nev. & Per. 319; H
Bowcutt v. Bonser, 3 Exch. 491; Cawley v. FurneZl, 12 C. B. 291;
Everett v. -Robertson,above cited. ,
The law upon this subject has been well summed up by

SHEPHERD v. TIBOMPSON.
Opinion of the Cour.

Vice Chancellor Wigram, as follows: "The legal effect of an
acknowledgment of a debt barred by the statute of litations is"
that of a promise to pay the old debt, and for this
purpose the old debt is a consideration in law. In that sense,
and for that purpose, the old debt may be said to be revived.
It is revived as a consideration for a new promise. But the
new promise, ana not the old debt, is the measure of the creditor's right. If a debtor simply acknowledges an old debt,
the law implies from that simple acknowledgment a promise
to pay it; for which promise the old debt is -a sufficient consideration. But if the debtor promises to pay the old debt
when he is able, or by instalments, or in two years, or out of
a particular fund, the-creditor can claim nothing moe than

the promise gives him." Philips v. Philips, 3 Hare, 28, 299,.
300; Buckmaster v. Russell, 10 0. B. (2N. S.) 745, 750.
In the most recent English case that has come under our
notice, Lord Justice Bowen said: "Now, first of all, the
acknowledgment must be clear, in order to raise the implica-tion of a promise to pay. An acknowledgment which is not'
clear will not raise that inference. Secondly, supposing there
is an acknowledgment Of a debt which would if it stood by
itself be clear enough, still, if words axe found combined with
it which prevent the possibility of the implication of the.
promise to pay arising, then the acknowledgment is not clear,
within the meaning of the definition;" "because the words
express the lesser in such a way as to exclude the greater."
"G-een V. H'umpreys, 26 Oh. D. 414, 479, 480; .C. 53 Law

Journal (NW.
S.) Oh. 625, 628.
In the light of the principles established by the authorities
above referred to, it is quite clear that the instiument signed
by the defendant on June 21, 1877,did nbt take the plaintiff's
debt out of the statute.
This instrument contains no promise of the defendant personally to pay that debt, and no acknowledgment or -ention
of it as an existing liability. It begins with a reference, by'
way of consideration only, to the original debt, designating it
as "1the indebtedness described in the deed of trust " executed
to the plaintiff at the time when that debt was contracted.

OCTOBER TERMN,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Then follows a pledge of a certain claim of the defendant
against the government, and its proceeds, to secure the payment of "said indebtedness, with interest thereon at the rate
of eight per cent per annum until paid." This interest is mentioned, not as part of the consideration, or of the original debt,
or as aliything for which the defendant is liable, but only as
something to the payment of which the claim pledged shall
be applied. And the instrument concludes with a promise of
the defendant that the proceeds of the claim pledged shall " be
applied to the payment of said indebtedness, with interest as
aforesaid, or to so much thereof as the sum or sums of money
so received is or are sufficient to pay."
Although the old debt is expressly called, as it is in law, the
consideration for the new agreement, this agreement, and not
the old debt, is the measure of the plaintiff's right. The provisions for the payment of the debt and interest out of a particular fund exclude any implication of a personal promise to
pay either. The whole instrument clearly evinces the defendant's intention in executing it to have been that the property
pledged should be applied, so far as it would go, to the payment of the debt and interest, and not that his own personal
liability should be increased or prolonged in any respect.
To imply from the terms of this instrument a promise of
the defendant to pay the debt himself would be, in our opinion, to construe it against its manifest intent, and to fritter
away the statute of limitations.
The result is, that the judgment below must be reversed,
and the verdict against the defendant set aside. It was contended by his counsel that this court should now direct judgment to be entered apon a former verdict, which was returned
for him under a cprrect ruling on the question of acknowledgment, and set aside by the court in general term upon a different view of the law. In support of this contention was cited
Cougidin v. Dis rict of Columbia, 106 U. S. 71.But the reason
for ordering judgment upon the first verdict in that case was
not that the court in general term had wrongly decided a question of law upjon a bill of exceptions allowed at the first trial;
but that, as appeared of record, independently of any bill of

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Syllabus.

exceptions, the question had not been legally brought before
it at all thus leaving the first verdict in'full force. In the.
present case, it had authority to entertain and pass upon tho
exceptions taken by the plaintiff at, the first trial; when, in
the exercise of that authority, it had sustained those exceptions and ordered a second trial, the case stood as if it had
never been tried before; and only the rulings at the second
trial, and no rulings, whether similar or different, at the former trial,,could be brought to the general term by the exceptions of the defendant, or to this court by his writ of error.
Judgment 'eversed, and case remanded to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, with directions to set aside the
verdict and to order a new trial.

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued May 11, 1887. -Decided

May 27, 1887.

In order to justify a resort to a court of equity for the enforcement of an
equitable estoppel, some ground of equity, other than the estoppel itself,
must be shown whereby the party entitled to the benefit of it is prevented from making it available in a court of law; and, that It must be
made to appear that forms of law are being used to defeat that which,
in equity, constitutes the right.
When in a suit in equity brought to restrain the respondent from enforcing
agaiust the complainant in an action at law a demand against which the
complainant claims to have an equitable defence which is set forth in
the bill, it appears to be altogether uncertain ivhether the complainant
can avail himself in the action at law of the defence asserted in the bill;
the bill should not be dismissed upoi general demurrer, but the respondent should be required to answer.
B., a citizen of the United States, died in France, having in Europe, lodged
with bankers in London and elsewhere, a large amount of personal
securities. He left a will naming his widow, his brother J. of Alabama,
one S., a citizen of France, and others as executrix and executors. With
the knowledge and consent of the widow and of the other' parties Interested J. caused the will to be admitted to probate in Alabama, obVOL. cxx -16

