N. W. INSURANCE. CO. v. MUSKEGON BANK. 501
Syllabus.

This conclusion, with reference to the deed of trust, renders
it unnecessary to consider the numerous transactions of William Miller in the purchase and sale of property, and in his
dealings with his creditors.. They are, not always as susceptible of explanation as would be desirable. It is enough, however, that they do not weigh down the considerations we have
mentioned.
Die decr'ee i8 affirmed.

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
MUSKEGON BANK.
FRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

SOUTHFN

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued May 4, 1887.-Decided May 27,1887.
An application for a policy of life insurance contained these questions and
answers: Q. "Are you, or have you ever been, in the habit of using
alcoholic beverages or other stimulants ?" A. "Yes, occasionally." Q.
"Have you read and assented to the following agreement?". A. "Yes."
The agreement referred to contained the following: "It is hereby decldred that the above-are the applicant's own fair and true answers to
thetforegoing questions, and that the applicant is not, and will not become, habitually intdmperate or addicted to the use of opium.". The
policy declared that if the assured should become intemperate so as to
impair his health or induce delfrium tremens, or if any statement in the
application, on the faith of which the policy was made, should be found
,to be in any material respect untrue, the policy should be void. The assured having died, his creditor for whose benefit the insurance was made
sued the insurer to recover on the policy. The defendant set up (1) that
at the time of making thd policy the insured was and had been habitually
intemperate, and that his statements on which the policy had been issued
were fraudulent and untrue; (2) That after the policy was issued he became so intemperate as to impair his health and to induce delirium tremens. On both these issues the insurer assumed the affirmative, taking.
the opening and close at the trial. Held:
(1) That the opinion of a witness as to the effect uponthe assured at the
time of the issue of the policy, of a habit of drunkenness five years
before that date (the witness knowing n6thing of them during the
intervening period), was properly excluded.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.
(2) That under the lst'issue the-defendant was bound to prove that the
a7sured was habitually intemperate when the policy issued; and under
the 2d, that he was so after it issued.
-(3) That while in a very clear case a court may assume on the one hand
that certain facts disclose a case of habitual intemperance, or on the
other that they warrant the opposite conclusion, in the main these are
questions of fact to blesubmitted to the jury.
(4) That the charge of the court contained all that it was necessary for
him to say by way of assisting the jury to arrive at a just verdict,
and that he was not required to give them the same instructions over
again in language selected by the defendants' counsel.
(5) That other requests made by defendants' counsel took from the jury
the decision of the question which should be left to them.
If, in regard to any particular subject or point pertinent to the case the
court has laid down the law correctly, and so fully as to cover all that is
proper to be said on the subject, it is not bound to repeat this instruction in terms varied to suit -the wishes of either party.

Tins was an action it law upon a policy of insurance.
Judgment for the plaintiff. The defendant sued ouit this writ
of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Edward Salomon for plaintiff in error.
X .7o -. Parsonsfor defendant in error.
Adwm. was with him on the brief.

XA&. John P.

MR. usTicE MLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The Muskegon National Bank recovered a judgment, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, against the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company, upon a policy of insurance on the life of Erwin G.
Comstock for $23,717.04, and to this judgment the present
writ of error is directed.
The bank had an insurance upon the life of Comstock, its
debtor, for the sum of $20,000.
On the trial before the
jury, although some other issues were made in the pleadings,
the contest turned, so far as the assignments of error are" presented here, on the condition of Comstock in regard to the
habit of drinking alcoholic liquors. The policy and the application for it, the answers to which were signed both by Con-

N. W. INSURANCE CO. v. MUSKEGON BANK. 503

Opinion of the Couit.

-

stock and the bank through its president, present the founda
tion of the controversy. The sixteenth interrogatory is as
follows: "Are you, or have you ever been, in the habit of
using alcoholic beverages or other stimulants?" The, answer
to this was, "Ye s , occasionally." The twenty-secoid interrogatory, ."Have you read and assented to the following agreement " was answered, "Yes."
This agreement, so far as it
touches the' present issue, reads .as folloWs: "It is hereby declared that the above are the appl.cant's own fair and true
answers to the foregoing questions, and that the applicant is
not, and will not become, habitually intemperate or addicted
to the use of opium." The body of the policy declared that if
Comstock sliall become intemperate, so as to impair his health
or induce delirium temenw, or if any statement in the application, on the faith of which the policy is made, shall be found
to be in any material respect untrue, the policy is void.
Upon this language in the application and the policy, the
defendant founded two separate pleas or defences:
First. That "at the time of making and presenting said
application as aforesaid, and of the issuing of said policy,
the said Erwin G. Comstock was and prior thereto had been
habitually intemperate, and that the said statement in said
application contained that said Erwin G. Comstock was not
then habitually intemperate, was untrue and fraudulently
made, and a suppression'of facts material to the risk assumed
by said policy of insurance."
Second. That "said policy was issued by this defendant and
accepted by said plaintiff upon the express condition, amongst
others contained therein, that if said Erwin G. Comstock
should become either habitually intemperate or so far intemperate as to impair health or induce deirium tremeiw, the
said policy should be null and void; that in fact, as thlis
defendant is informed and believes, the said Erwin G. Coinstock did, after the issuing of said policy, become habitually
intemperate, and so far intemperate as to impair his health
and induce deliqiurn tremens, and that thereby the said policy
became and is null and void."
The issues were tried, upon the two allegations of habitual

OCTOBER TERMi,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

intemperance before land after the issue of the policy. The
compaiiy, discarding other issues, assumed the affirmative on
these two pleas, 'aud on a plea of suicide, which seems to have
been abandoned, and thereby obtained the opening and the
conclusion to the jury. The assignments of error raise objections to the action of the court in excluding answers to questions prolpounded to witnesses for the defendant company on
the trial, as well as its refusal to give certain instructions
prayed for by the defendant to the jury.
A witness for the defendant, named Torrent, testified that
.he knew Comstock at Muskegon from 1868 to 18T5. The
policy of insurance was taken out in New York in -1879.
The .witnessfurther stated that he was well acquainted with
Comstock in Muskegon, and knew that he was addicted to the
use of intoxicating liquors during the period of their acquaintance; had seen him drunk; knew of his being on prolonged
sprees, and gave other testimony to the effect that he did use
intbxicating liquors to'excess. He was then asked this question.: "Up to the time your acquaintance with him ceased,
what would you say as to whether his drinking had affected
his health or impaired his vital powers in any respect ?" To
this he answered: "I think it had affected him materially;
I think it had affected his nerves and impaired his health
generally, general debility; the symptoms of that were his
general looks, and that the time he went a'iay, or just before,
he was taken very sick, -and they didn't know whetlier he
was going to be alive or die; that was the general impression." The court excluded this answer, and the defendant
ex6epted. The witness also testified that he saw him during
that sickness, and that he was then sick for about three weeks,
adding: "I think he had the deliriumtr'emens." This expression of opinion was also excluded.
It is to be observed that the witness had testified to all the
facts which he knew, without objection, that tended to establish a habit of intemperance in Comstock prior to 1875. What
he was next asked, and what he then testified to, was his
opinion in regard to the effect of this intemperance upon the
health of the assured. It will be noted that all this occurred

N. W. INSURANCE CO. v. IUSKEGON BANK. 505
Opinion or the Court.

between four and five years before the execution of the policy.
We are of opinion that while the facts recited by this witness
and received in evidence might have some remote tendency
to show Comstock's habits in regard to temperance at the
time to which they related, his opinion of their effect upon
his health at the date of the policy, four years later, was inadmissible as to that or his habits, as he knew nothing of these
during that period.
The exception to the testimony of Barney, who undertook'
to detail conversations with a doctor attending Comstock prior
to 1875, as to wlkether Comstock was threatened with delirium tremens or not, and the statement of the witness that he
was afraid Comstobk was going to have delirium tremens,
which was excluded by the court, depend upon the same principle and are otherwise incompetent. We see no error in those
rulings.
The remaining assignments of error have regard to prayers
for instructions by the court to the jury, which were refused.
No assignment of error is founded on any exception taken to
the charge of the judge who tried the case, which seems'
to have been eminently fair and very full, and in our op'- "
embraced all that was necessary to be said to the jury on the
subject. The questions which the jury had to respond to were
whether Comstock was of intemperate habits at the time the
policy was taken out, and whether he became habitually
intemperate after that period. The whole case turned, so far
as the jury was concerned, upon the true definitions of the
words "habitually intemperate," taken in connection with
the testimony on the subject, at these two different periods.
The plaintiff was not bound to prove that the assured was
temperate, or that he was a temperate man, but the defendant
was bound to prove not only that Comstock was intemperate
at those periods, but that he was habitually so. This it was
bound to do by such a preponderance of testimony as should
satisfy the jury that at one of these periods or the other he
was habitually intemperate. We do not know of any established legal definition of those words. As they relate to the
customs and habits of men generally in regard to the use of

OCTOBER TER31, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

intoxicating drink., 'and as the observation and experience
of one-man on that subject is as good as 'another of equal
capacity and opportunities, their true meaning and significatio would seem to be a question addressed rather to the jury
than to the courf. While there may be on the one hand such
a clear case of intemperate habits as to justify the court in
saying that such and such facts constitute a condition of habitual intemperance, or on the other such an entire absence of
any proof, beyond an occasional indulgence in the use of ardent
spirits, as to warrant the opposite conclusion, yet the main
field of inquiry, and the determination of the question within
it, must be submitted to the jury, and the question on this
submission must be decided by them.
The testimony in this case is all embodied in the record, and
is contradictory. It must be divided into its relations to the
two periods, before and after the execution of the policy., It
is seen from the testimony that Comstock left Muskegon, where
many of these witnesses resided who testify as to his excessive
use of intoxicating drinks, prior to 1875, and that they know
nothing of his habits after that: The policy was taken out in
1879. It is also quite clear, that, under a pledge made to one
of his partners in business, he had refrained from the use of
intoxicating drinks from the first of June, 1878, up to the time
of taking out this policy, and continued so to refrain up to
March, 1880. There are several witnesses who testify that
after his removal to New York in 1875 he was drunk, had
sprees once in a while, and perhaps several of them up to the
time when he made this pledge to his partner. There are others who testify that after March, 1880, he was again seen intoxicated and had spells of confinement on account of those
sprees. On the other hand there were fdur or five witnesses
examined, some of whom were in the same building in which
Comstock was employed in New York, who saw him daily,
and transacted business with him for the two or three years
prior to his death, which was in 1881, who testify that they
never saw him drunk, or under the influence of liquor, and did
not-suppose that he was addicted to drinking, but that he was
a prompt, efficient business man, and that they had no suspi-

N. W. INSURANCE CO. v. MUSKEGON BANK. 507
Opinion of the Court.

cion that he was intemperate or indulged in the excessive use
of stimulants. Among these, Mr. Samuel Borrow, vice-president of- the"Equitable Life Assurance Society, in whose building Comstock was Dtenant, says that he saw him almost daily
for two or three years prior to his death, that he struck him
as a very energetic, active man, and that he never saw him
under such circumstances as to suggest that he had been drinking.
Under these circumstances, and in view of this conflicting
testimony, the following language of the judge in his charge
to the jury in this case seems to contain all that was necessary for him to say by way of assisting them to arrive at a
just verdict:
"I think that there is no rule of law which says that, in
order to make a man a drunkard, he must drink every day or
every week to excess. Neither, on the other hand, does a
single or an occasional excess make a man an habitual drunkard; but, if you find that the habit and rule of a man's life is
to indulge periodically and with frequency, and with increasing frequency and violence, in excessive fits of intemperance,
such a use of liquor may properly cause the finding of habitual drunkenness. It is the fact of the certainty of these periodical sprees, accompanied with their frequency, which marks
the habit. If a man should indulge in-such a debauch once in
a year only, it could not, in my opinion, properly be said that
he was an habitual drunkard; he would be an occasional
drunkard. But if such debauches increase in frequency, and
the certainty of their increasing frequency becomes established,
then the time finally arrives when the line between an occasional excess and habit is crossed. It is for you to say, whether
Comstock was at the time of the application, or became afterwards, the victim of such a habit."
"If you find that, after the making of the policy, Comstock
became so far intemperate as to impair his health, the policy
is avoided, and the verdict will be for the defendant."
At the request of the defendant, he also gave to. the jury
the following instructions:
"If the jury find from the evidence that Erwin G. Coin-

OCTOBER TERII, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

stock was habitually intemperate when the application for the
policy of insurance was made, then they must find for the defendant.
"If the jury find from the evidence that Erwin G. Constock became habitually intemperate after the issuing of the
policy, then they must find for the defendant.
"If the jury find from the evidence that, after the making
6f the policy, Erwin G. Comstock became so far intemperate
as to impair his health, then they must'find for the defendant."
Exceptions were taken and errors assigned in regard to the
following instructions, which were asked and refused by the
court:
First. "To be habitually intemperate it is not necessary
that a person should be addicted to the excessive use of intoxicating liquors continually, or without interruption; but a
person who, during a period of time sufficient to form a habit
in that respect, is addicted to periodical 'sprees' of longer or
shorter duration, when for days in succession he drinks intoxicating liquors to great excess, producing a state of continued
drunkenness until prostration and sickness compel a cessation,
and :terminate the 'spree,' comes within the definition of being
habitually intemperate, although such person may remain
sober for a month, tlree or six months, or even a year at a
time."
Second. "If the jury find from the evidence that for seven
or eight years immediately prior to the 17th day of April
1879, Etwin G. Comstock was addicted to periodical 'sprees,'
when for several days and sometimes for a week or more in
succession he would drink intoxicating liquors to great excessi
producing a state of continued drunkenness until prostration,
*and'sicknEss intervened, then they must find for the defendant,
although they may find that he would remain sober for a
month, three or six months, or even a year at a time,"
Third. "It was the duty of the plaintiff andc of Erwin G.
Comstock in their application for this policy of insurance to
communicate to the defendant the fact that, for six or seven
years immediately prio to the first day of June, 1878, Coin-

N. W. INSURANCE CO. v. MUSKEGON BANK. 509
Opinion of the Court.

stock had been addicted to periodical sprees lasting for a longer
or shorter period, when for days in succession he would drink
intoxicating liquors to great excess, producing continued drunkenness, although he might remain sober for a month, three or
six months, or longer, even, at a time; and their failure to disclose such facts to the defendant avoids the policy, and the
jury must find for the defendant."
Fourth. This includes two charges which amount to very
much the same .thing. They are in the following words:
"If the jury should find from the evidence that for six or
seven years immediately prior to the first day of June, 1878,
Erwin G. Comstock had been addicted to periodical sprees,
lasting for a loiiger or shorter period, when for days in succession he would drink intoxicating liquors to great excess, producing continued drunkenness, until sickness and prostration
would intervene and terminate the spree; that such sprees
would occur once in every three or six months or thereabouts;
that on the first day of June, 1878, after the tpri'ination of
one of such sprees, under threat of dissolution of partnership
from his then partner, Mr. Hoagland, he gave a written pledge
not to drink any more so long as he and Hoagland were associated in business; that his partnership with Toagland ceased
on the first day of May, 1879; that afterwards, during the
years 1880 and 1881, he again became addicted to such periodical sprees; that during the year 1880 he had at least three
such sprees; that during the year 1881, up to the latter part'
of April of that year, he had a number of such sprees of great
intensity; that in one of those sprees, in or about the month
of April, 1881, he subjected himself to the restraint of a nurse
for several weeks in order to prevent himself from obtaining
liquor; then the jury must find for the defendant.
"If the jury find from the evidence that after the making
of the policy of insurance, during the years 1880 and 1881,
Erwin G. Co-stock became addicted to periodical sprees last-..
ing for a number of days, or even a week or more, each time,
when he would use intoxicating liquors to such excess'as to
produce continued drunkenness, and prostrate him and make
him sick f6r several days; that such sprees occurred in or

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

-bout the month of March, 1880, in or about the month of
July, 188.0, again in or about the month of August, 1880, again
on dr about the first of January, 1881, again in or about the
month of February, 1881, and again in or about the month of
April, 1881; that his last sprees in February- and April, 1881,
were of such intensity that towards the close of the drinking
period, when sick and prostrated, he subjected himself to
nurses for a week and more. each time, in order that they.
might assist him to become sober; then they must find forthe defendant."
The first, second, and third of these prayers for instruction
do not differ much from the substance of the charge of the
court at its own instance. The language of that charge embodies the real principles upon which these three prayers are
based, and in terms much more apt and just to both parties
than that used by counsel. The court said, among other
things: "Neither does a single or an occasional excess make a
man aA habitual drunkard ;-but, if you find that the habit and
rule of a man's life is to indulge periodically and with frequency and with increasing frequency and violence in excessive fits of intemperance, such a use of liquor may properly
cause the finding of habitual drunkenness." This is the substance, and in very strong language, of the three prayers
above referred to for instruction which were refused by the
court.
It has been often said by this court, and we repeat it now
with emphasis, that if in regard to any particular subject or
point pertinent to the case- the court has laid down the law
correctly and so fully as to cover all that is proper to be said
on the subject, it is not bound to repeat this instruction in
terms -varied to suit the wishes of either party. Kelly v.
Jackson, 6 Pet. 622; Laber v. Cooper , -7Wall. 565; Indianapolis & &t. Louis Railroad v. Horst; 93 U. S. 291; Railway Co. v. XcCarthy, 96 U. S. 258. If the charge of the
judge, made at his own suggestion, covers the point in question, it is much more likely to be impartial and correctly
stated than it will be by counsel.
These requests, however, are inadmissible, as we think, for

N. W. INSURANCE CO. v. MUSKEGON BANK. 511
Opinion of the Court.

other reasons. They all, as near as they dare, attenipt to define approximately for the jury the number of times a man
must get drunk, or have a spree, or how closely such excesses
must succeed each other, to constitute "habitual intemperance." They also attempt to say how long a time a man must
have abstained from drunkenness or sprees in order to relieve
him from that charge. And especially are the requests ob-'
noxious in saying that, under such circumstances, a person
comes within the definition of being habitually intemperate,
although he might remain sober for a month, three or six
months, or longer, at a time; one of them says, "or even a
year at a time." What effect should be given to an entire
abstinence from the use of liquors for a whole year, in connection with occasional drunken sprees, before or after, is not for
the court to determine. But if it were, it does not seem to us,
in view of this testimony, that sufficient force was given to it
in the rejected prayers. This reference to periods of abstinence from drink is still more objectionable when it is seen,
from the testimony, that during a continuous period, just
before and after the taking out of this policy, Comstock was
admitted to have been entirely sober, if not entirely abstinent
from the use of ardent spirits, for a period of nearly two
years. It would be rather harsh for a- court to instruct a jury,
as a matter of law, that a man who was sober nearly two
years was at a period near the middle of that time "habitually
intemperate." It was certainly a question to be left to the
jury, on all the testimony, to draw their own conclusions in
regard to the subject.
The two other requests are still more liable to these objections, inasmuch as they constitute an attempt to recite the
various occasions on which the jury might infer that Comstock
had been drunk, together with some vague descriptioil of the
intervals between certain sprees, with an account of his struggles against his thirst for liquor; in fact they are a history of
his life for six or seven years prior to the making of the contract for insurance down to the time of his death; from all of
which there is sought to be deduced a positive instructionto the
jury that they must find for the defendant. We do not think

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

there was anytii.g in the case which would have justified the
6ourt in thus taking the determination of it from the jury.
The court had no right in this summing up to ignore the testimony of four or five respectable and intelligent gentlemen
who knew Comstock well during the most -important part of
this period, during several years of it, who saw him almost
daily, and who testify that they never had any reason to suppose that he used ardent spirits at all, much less to excess. It
was for the jury to Weigh all these circumstances, and to determine, in view of them all, whether he was habitually'intemperate.
There are very few decisions by courts of high character relating to this question. The principal one which has been brought
to our attention is Insu'ance Co. v. -Foley,105 U. S. 350, 354.
In, that case the insured, in answer to the question, "Is the
party of temperate habits? has he always been so? " answered,
"Yes," whereas the defendant company alleged that in fact
he was a man of intemperate habits. The court, through Mr.
Justice Field, said:
"The question was as to the habits of the insured. His
occasional use of intoxicating liquors did not render him a man
of intemperate habits, nor would an occasional case of excess
justify the applipation of this character to him. An attack of
de irium tremen may sometimes follow a single excessive
indulgence.

.

.

. When we speak of the habits of a per-

son we refer to -his customary conduct, to pursue which he has
acquired a tendency from frequent repetition of the same acts.
It would be incorrect to say that a man has a habit of anything from a single act. .
The court did not, therefore, err in instructing the jury that, if the habits of the insured, 'in the usual, ordinary, and every-day routine of his
life were temperate,' the representations made are not, untrue,
within the meaning of the policy, although he may have an
attack of dirium tremens from an exceptional over-indulgence. It could not have been contemplated, from the language used in the policy, that it should become void for an
occasional excess .by the insured, but only when such excess
had by frequent repetitions become a habit. And the testi-

BURLINGTON, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. DUNN.

513

Statement of the Case.

mony of witnesses, who had been intimate with him for years,
and knew his general habits, may well have satisfied the jury
that, whatever excesses he may at times have committed, he
was not habitually intemperate."
We think this language eminently applicable to the case
before us.
The questions presented by these requests do not rise to the
dignity even of mixed law and fact, but are questions the
answers to which are governed by no settled principle or rule
of law, established either by statute or by a recognized coarse
of judicial decision. They are emphatically questions of fact,
which it is the province of a jury to docide, and in regard to
which they are or ought to be as capable of making a decision
as the court or anybody else.
The judgment of the Circuit Court i8, therefore, aflrmed.

BURLINGTON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND NORTHERN

RAILWAY COMPANY v. DUNN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MITlNESOTA.
Submitted April 29, 1887. - Decided May 27, 1887.
When a petition for a removal of the cause to a Circuit Court of the United
States is filed in a cause pending in a state court, the only question left
for the state court to determine is the question of law whether, admitting the facts stated in the petition to be .true, it appears on the face of
the, record, including the petition, the pleadings and the proceedings
down to that time, that the petitioner is entitled .to a removal; and if an
issue of fact is made upon the petition, that issue must be tried in the
Circuit Court.

THE Federal question brought up by the writ of error in
this case related to the right of removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court
VOL. cx=-33

