TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CO. v. SEELIGSON.

519

Argument for Appellant.

ing the bill. The questions involved are principally of fact,
which it would serve no useful purpose to consider at length
in an opinion.

he &cree is afwmed.

TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CO. v. SEELIGSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COMCUrr COURT OF THE UNMED

bTATES FOP

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted April 25, 1887.- Decided May 27,1887.
If a cause pending in a state court against several defendants is removed
thence to the Circuit .Court of the United States on the petition of one
of the defendants under the act of 1875, 18 Stat. 470, on the grounds of
a separate cause of action against the petitioning defendant, ia which
the controversy was wholly between citizens of different states, it
should be remanded to the state court if the action Is discontinued in
the Circuit Court as to the petitioning defendant.

Tins was an appeal from an order remanding a cause to the
state court from whence it had been removed. The case is
stated in the opinibn of the court.
.fM.

. _N. WTdu for appellants.

I. The case was properly removed from the state court, there
being a separable controversy between the plaintiff, a citizen
of Texas, on one side, and Huntingon, a citizen of New York,
on the other side, ta which the other defendants were not
necessary parties-the only allegation against 0. P. Huntington being that he is the owner of the note for $335,000 and
the trust deed to secure the same - and the prayer on the
original petition to annul and cancel the note and trust deed.
II. There is a controversy between the defendant, C. P.
Huntington, a citizen of New York, on one side, and the
plaintiff and the other defendants on the other side, in which
the interest of the plaintiff and the Texas Transportation Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

pany and its officers is to anniul and declare void or bar by the

statute of limitations, the .recovery .f the debt-as evidenced by'
the note for $335,000 and secured by the trust deed, and it is
the interest of the defendant, Huntington, to have the said
debt established and secured, of which claim he is charged to
be the sole owner. Harter v. Kernochan,103 U. S. 562,
566; Barney v. -Latham,103 U. S. 205; Pacifio Railroad v.
-Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289; Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457.
III. That the Circuit Court had jurisdiction at the time it
was removed is evident upon an examination of the petition
filed in the state court by plaintiff and the petition for removal
by Huntington. The question of jurisdiction was considered
adjudged and determined by the circuit judge on the motion
overruling the two motions to remand,
And being established, no act of the complainant thereafter,
either by dismissing one of the parties defendant, or either of
the, causes 6f aqtion, would authorize the court to remand,
although the court should dismiss the case at the cost of complainants. Phe~ps v. Oaks, 117 U. S. 236; Clarke v. -Vatthewson, 12 Pet. 164; Rolert&v. Nelson, 8 Blatchford, 74;
Carringtonv. FloridaRailroad,9 Blatchford, 467.
IV. The statute of 1875, ยง 5, gives authority to the Circuit
Court to- remand to the state court only in two classes of cases,
neither of which irises in this case.
V. When a cause is ordered by the Circuit Court to be
remanded, the jurisdiction of the state court re-attaches as
though no order of removal had been made: Thatcher v..XrTWiliams, 47 Geo. 306; Ew parte Inmrance Co., 50 Ala. 464.
Xr. W. Earl
MR. CHIE JUsTc

and Xr. IV. W. Boyce for appellee.
WrIrE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal -under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c.
137, 18 Stat. 470, from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed from a state court. The
suit was begun December 18,' 1883, in the Circuit Court of
Harris County, Texas, by Henry Seeligson, a citizen of that

TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CO. v. SEELIGSON. -521
Opinion of the Court.

state, and the owner of twenty shares of the capital stock
of the Texas Transportation Company, a Texas corporation,against that corhpany, and A. C. Hutchinson, Charles
Fowler, E. W. Cave, and L. Megget; its directors and principal officers, for an account of the affairs of the company;
and to annul and' st aside a note of the company for $335,000
to Charles Morgan, together with a'deed of trust given for
its security. Hutchinson is a citizen of Louisiana, b. - all the
-restof the defendants are citizens of Texas. On the 9th of
February, 1884, a supplemental petition .was filed in the suit
alleging that 0. P. Huntington had become the owner of the
note given to Morgan, and bringing him in as a defendant.
Citationwas served on him farch 13, 1884, and, on the 31st of
the same month., he, being a citizen of New York, presented his
petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the
United States -for the Eastern District of Texas, on the ground
"that there is a controversy in said suit which is wholly between
citizens of different states, and which can be fully determined
as between them, to wit, a controversy between said Seeligson,
plaintiff, and your petitioner, and a controversy between your
petitioner, on one side, and in which the interests of the said
Seeligson, the Texas Transportation Company, and the other
defendants, officers of said company, are on the other side."
Upon this petition an order of removal was made, and the.
suit entered in the Circuit Court on the 16th of October, 1884,
when the defendants appeared, and, on the 1st of December,
filed a joint and several demurrer to the bill. On the 5th of
January, 1885, this demurrer was sustained as -to Huntington,
but oveiruled 'asto the rest of the defendants. The bill was
then amended, and afterwards, on the 9th.of March, it was
ordered that the "comp l ain a nt do recast and amend his bill
so as to conform to the equity rules of the Suprdme Court,
and that, in so amending and rcasting his pleadings, he have
leave to bring in two or more bills, as tounsel may advise, so
as to save to complainant all the causes of action contained
in his original bill," and that, "if this order is not complied
witra by the 'rule day in. May next, the complainant's bill shall
stand dismissed with costs." 'On the 2d of May, Seeligson.

522

OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Syllabus.

made a motion to remand the suit, and this being overruled,
on the 4th of May he filed an amended bill, to which the
defendants demurred June 1. This demurrer was set down
for argument on the first Monday in November.
Other
motions were filed by the defendants, but, before any of
them were disposed of, Seeligson, on the 19th of November,
dismisged the suitas to Huntington, and at once moved to
remand. This motion was granted January 9, 1886, and
from: that order this appeal was taken.
As the suit could only have been renioved because of the
alleged separate cause of action against Huntington, it was
right to remand it as soon as the discontinuance was entered
as to him. The express provision of ยง 5 of the act of 1875,
is, that if "it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit
Court at any time after such suit has been
.
.
removed
thireto that such suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the j".isdiction
of said Circuit Court, . . . the said Circuit Court shall
proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or
remand it to the court from which it was removed, as justice
may require." The court was not required to keep the suit
after the discontinuance, simply because it might have been
removed when Huntington was a party. As soon as he was.
out of the case, it did appear that "the suit did not really
a-ad substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly
within" its jurisdiction.
The order to remand is affirmed.

FISHER v. PERKINS.
ER1OR TO THE SUPERIOR "COURT OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
Submitted April'20, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

This court has -no power to review a judgment of the Superior Court of the
'State of-Kentucky, unless it appears not only that the judgment is one ofthe class 'in which the- statute of that-state provides that the. judgment

