CLINTON v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

469

Syllabus.

pose of the early notice of the death of Edwards, and also the
receipt of the final proofs thereof, and that it is too late for
them now to undertake to defeat this action upon the ground
that he was not their agent for any of these purposes.
We do not deem it necessary to go into a critical examination of the authorities upon the questions so often raised of
the powers of agents of this class. We simply hold that,
whether upon the face of the policy, and the receipt with its
indorsements, taken alone, Phillips can be held to have been
the agent of the company to whom the notices in question
could be properly delivered or not, that the action of the company upon Phillips' communications to its secretary at Hartford of the information of the death of Edwards, and its delivery to him of the blank affidavits and forms which it required
to be filled up, together with the subsequent correspondence,
show conclusively that the company considered Phillips as its
agent throighout the transaction with regard to these notices,
and it is, therefore, bound by what he did.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

CLINTON v. MISSOU:RI PACIFIC RAILWAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASIKA.
Submitted May 11, 1887.-Decded May 27, 1887.

The assignment of error in this case is precise and specific, and complies
with the requirements of the rule in that respect.
No exceptions were necessary to bring before this court the judgment of
the Circuit Court *below dismissing the appeal from the Cass County
Court to the District Court of that county.
When a cause is removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the United
States, the transcript from the state court forms part of the record in
the Circuit Court, and in any writ of error from this court necessarily
becomes a part of the record here.
The sixty days during which a right of appeal is given by the statutes of
Nebraska from the assessment of damages by commissioners appointed

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of the Case.
under proceedings forthe condemnation of land for the*use of a rail,
road,.begin to run when the commissioners' report is filed.
When the transcript from a court below, filed in an appellate court in due
time, is imperfect, and the imperfection can be cured by a writ of certiorari,the appeal is valid.

THE following is the statement of the case as made by the
court.
This case is in. many respects anomalous and bristles with
points, but it is otherwise not very important. It commenced
in a proceeding instituted by the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company of Nebraska, under a statute of that state providing
for the condemnation of land for the use of railroads. It was
begun in the county court of Cass County, Nebraska, by
which a commission was appointed to make the assessment of
damages. From this assessment, after it was returned to the
county court, Samuel Clinton, some of whose land was taken,
appealed to the District Court of said county. In that court
he made a motion, which was successful, to remove the dase
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Nebraska. In this latter court a motion was made to remand
the case to the District Court of Cass County, which seems
never to have been acted upon, but on a motion made by the

railway company to dismiss the appeal- meaning thereby
the appeal from the county court to the District Court of
Cass County -the Circuit Court granted the motion and dismissed the appeal. The matter, therefore, not being remanded
to the state court, the Circuit Court of the United States
deciding that no valid appeal had been taken from the county
to the District Court of Cass County, the dismissal of the
appeal was of course an end of the case.
To this judgment of 'dismissal the present writ of error is
prosecuted.
The only error assigned by the plaintiff here is in the following language:
"The court below sustained the motion to dismiss solely
upon the ground that the appeal had not been taken within
the statutory time of sixty days after the assessment, deciding
that the time commenced to run from the day when the com-

CLINTON v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

471

Argument for Defendant in Error.

*missioners met and viewed the land, and not from the date of
the return of their assessment. This is *the only error relied
upon by plaintiff in error."
X'. J.Aff. Turston for plaintiff in error.
.J21.

John ..
-Dillon for defendant in error.

I. There is no adequate assignment of errors, such as is
required by ยง 997 of the Revised Statutes, and clause 4 of Rule
21 of this court. This is apparent by an examination of the
record.
H. The record contains no bill of exceptions, and no exception to the ruling of the court which is complained of. Without a bill of exceptions, making the motion to dismiss the
appeal part of the record, the same cannot be considered, and
that there is nothing in the transcript or printed record which
will authorize this court to hold against the express finding of
the court below that the "appeal was not taken within sixty
days from the assessment of damages," that such appeal was
so taken. In short, there must be a bill of exceptions making
the motion part of the record, and in addition to this an exceptioni to the ruling of the court complained of. Neither of
which appears.
III. The order dismissing the appeal is not a final judgment
to *hich a writ of error lies to this court.
IV. No record was filed in court below giving it jurisdiction of appeal from assessment. Since the decision of the
court below, now under re-iew, the Supreme Court of
Nebraska, in a case not referred to by the plaintiff in error,
namely, the case of Gifford v. Republican Valley and Kansas
Railroad,20 Ndb. 538, holds that an appeal may be taken in
such cases within sixty days from the time when the commissioners' report was filed. If this court shall rule Points I., II.
and III. against the defendant in error, and shall hold that it
appears from the record here so that it can be noticed by this
court that the report or award of the commissioners was not
filed until December 1, 1881, even then we insist that the order

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

dismissing the appeal'was correct and ought not to be reversed.
The case of GCiford v. .Reublican, &c., Railroad is not referred to by the plaintiff in error, but it seems to be the part
of frankness on our part to call it to the attention of this
court.
But upon the authority of that case, however, as well as upon
principle, we further submit that the order of the court below
must be affirmed for other jurisdictional defects specified in
the defendant's motion. The statute referred to does not prescribe the method of perfecting an appeal from the award of
commissioners. The method of perfecting such an appeal so
as to invest the appellate court with jurisdiction of the proceedings must, therefore, be determined by settled and sanctioned practice, and by the legal necessities of such a proceeding. It is obvious that the appellate court iuust have before
it a record, complete for all jurisdictional purposes, of the matters which it is called upon to review. In the present case such
a record could not consist of anything less than a transcript
from the county judge of the -ntire condemnation lsroceedings, beginning with the petition of the defendant company
for the appointment of commissioners (the jurisdictional basis
of the entire proceeding) and concluding with the award of
the commissioners. It would be obvious that the jurisdiction
to review could not rest on anything short of this, even had
such requirements never been judicially expressed. But the
record transmitted to the District Court of Cass County, and
thence to the -Circuit Court below, was thus fatally defective
because (and for other reasons) it did not contain a copy of
any petition of the railway company for the appointment of
commissioners. The jurisdiction of the appellate court was
derivative and could not exist upon a record which failed to
disclose the original jurisdiction.
The plaintiff in error filed a motion for a rehearing of the
motion to dismiss his appeal, and in support of his application
he filed what he denominated "a full and complete transcript
of the proceedings had in condemnation herein." This "transcript" was certified to be such by the county judge of Cass
County on the 29th of September, 1883- nearly two years

CLINTON v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

-473

Opinion of the Court.

after the assessment and appeal. This last "transcript" cannot be here considered, because, (1) the motion for a rehearing
and all proceedings connected with it are proceedings not properly part of the record in this court. (2) This "transcript"
was never filed in the District Qourt of Cass County, and
could in no event be considered unless there filed within sixty
days after the assessment. Giford v. -Republicatn Valley
-Railroad,supra.
The unauthorized certificate of the county judge to a summary of the proceedings cannot be substituted for the actual
record of the proceedings, and such certificate cannot be here
considered as part of this record. Fisher v. CockerelZ, 5 Pet.
248.
M . JUSTicE MnLmt, after stating the case as reported above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error insists that the case should be dismissed here for want of an assignment of errors. In regard
to this it is sufficient to say that it would be difficult to formulate a more precise and specific assignment of error than that
contained in the foregoing extract from the brief of the
plaintiff.
The next point presented is, that the ruling of the court in
this case, upon the question of the dismissal of the appeal, is
not jresented by any bill of exceptions, and that there is
nothing in the record on which this court can review that
decision. But the determination of this subject is the final
judgment of the court. This is so in any sense in which it
can be looked at. The order to dismiss is in the following
terms:
"This cause coming on to be heard this 20th day of December, 1883, on the motion filed by the defendant, to dismiss
the appeal herein from the assessment of damages made by
the commissioners appointed by the county court of Cass
County, Nebraska, on the ground that said appeal was not
taken within sLxty days after the assessment of damages to
said real estate by said commissioners, and for other reasons

OCTOBER TER31,

1886.

Opinion of.the Court.

contained in said motion on file, and on argument .of counsel
and on consideration thereof by the court, the court doth here
find that said appeal was not taken within sixty days from the
date of the assessment of damage made by such commissioners
of the land in controversy, and the court doth sustain said motion to dismiss such appeal. It is ordered by the court here
that said appeal be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, each
party to pay its own costs."
If it be true that the appeal from the Cass County court to
the District Court of that county was not taken in time, that
is, within the sixty (lays referred to in this judgment, there is
an end of the plaintiff's case in any court whatever. The
Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska, assuming to come
into the place of the District Court of Cass County, and exercising the powers which that court would have exercised if
the case had not been removed, holds that no valid appeal
was taken, and for that reason dismissed the case. If such
finding be correct and it remains as a valid judgment it puts
an end to the plaihtiff's claim; it can nowhere be considered
any further, and it is final upon the questions involved in the
case.
As to the proposition that it cannot be reviewed here for
want of a bill of exceptions, that is equally untenable. A
judgment of a court appealed from is never incorporated into
a bill of exceptions. It is always a part of the record of the
case, and, like the plea and the verdict, it needs no bill of exceptions, but is simply to be transcribed as a part of the
record. In this case it presents for itself the point or matter
on which the court acted. It is there disti.Lictly stated that
the case wds dismissed because the appeal was not taken
within sixty days from the date of the aissessment of damages made by the commissioners. Now, if the facts on which
this decision was made are to be found in what may be properly called the record of the case before the judge when he
decided it, as it is here presented to us, then there was no need
of any bill of exceptions in the matter.
Whatever there was on that subject to guide the action of
the court on the motion to dismiss the appeal was found in

* CLINTON v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY..

475

Opinion of the Court.

the transcript as it came from the state court and was filed
in the Circuit Court of the United States. If there was enough
in that transcript to present the question in this case, then we
must review it; for we take it to be a necessary rule in such
cases that the transcript from the state court becomes a part
df the record of the case in the Federal court. There is no
mode by which that transcript, or any of its contents, can be
abstracted and made a part of a bill of exceptions to be signed
by the Federal judge. He can know nothing about what
takes place in the state court, personally, and cannot therefore certify to it. It comes to him as certified by the court in
which the proceedings were had. It is itself the foundation
on which he is to act in the future proceedings in the case. It
is already a record of another court transcribed and certified
to his court, and in any writ of eiror from the Supreme Court
of the United States that transcript from the state court
necessarily becomes a part of the record.
As regards the main point, that the appeal was not taken
within sixty days, this transcript, which is said to be imperfect,
sufficiently shows that the commissioners were appointed;
that they returned the award and assessment of damages
into the county court on the first day of December, 1881,
allowing to Clinton for damages to his property, known as
as the "Mill Reserve," the sum of $850, and that on January
28, lSS2, Clinton filed a notice of appeal from this award.
Although the time is pretty close, it is very obvious-these
things being matters.of record-that Clinton intended to
appeal within the sixty -days allowed by the statute, and that
lie did appeal within sixty days after the commissioners filed
the award, and thereby made it public.
We think the eircuit judge, in dismissing this appeal be-cause it was not taken in time, erred in holding that the assessment of damages must be considered as having been made
on the 23d of November, at which time they went upon the
ground to view it. There is no reason to believe that on that
day they made their assessment. There was no assessment of
damages, however much it may have been talked about, uhtil
they concluded upon and signed a final report upon that sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ject, and it is not to be believed that the Nebraska statute, limiting the right of appeal from the award of such commissioners
to sixty days, intended that period should commence to run at
an.y time prior to the final action of the board in presenting
their report to the county court. This point seems to have
been so decided by the Supreme Court of Nebraska in the case
of Giford v. The Republican Talley and .fansas Railroad,
20 Neb. 538. On this point, therefore, the judgment of the
Circuit Court, which is here for review, was evidently errone-.
o11s.
Another point taken by counsel for defendant in error is,
that the requirements specified by the Supreme' Court of Nebraska have not been complied with, that court having, in the
case just referred to, decided that "the essentially requisite
proceeding to perfect an appeal from the award of commissioners, in a case of this kind, and to give the District Court
jurisdiction of the same, is to file in the said court, or in the
office of the clerk thereof, a certified transcript from the county judge of the condemnation proceedings, from the original
application to said-county judge for the appointment of commissioners to the report of such commissioners in the respective case, both inclusive."
It is urged that the transcript filed in the District Court in
this case was imperfect and defective, among other reasons,
because it did not contain a copy of any petition 'of the railway company for the appointment of commissioners. We are
of opinion, however, that what was-filed in the District Court
was sufficient to' give that court jurisdiction to proceed further
in the case. It contained the order appointing the comnissioners, the swearing of them to perform their duties, the report which they made in the matter, the award of $850
damages upon Clinton's property and the taking'of the appeal
by him, and the service of notice of that appeal on the parties.
This is sufficient, at least, to show to the District Court that a
cake had arisen which the statute intended might be brought
before that court on appeal. If it had been suggested by
either party that this transcript was imperfect o'r defective because it omitted some paper, or order, or matter in the county
-

CLINTON v. M1ISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

477

Opinion of the Court.

court, which was necessary to the hearing in the District
Courtl the usual and proper way of correcting that evil, pursued in all courts of appeal, would be. by certioraridirected to
the court from which the appeal was taken, commanding it to
send up the complete and perfect record.
The case of Giford v. Railroad Co., above referred to, gives
support to this view- of the subject. There, no transcript of
the record in the coanty court, whether'perfect or imperfect,
was filed in the District Court, and it was on this ground, of
the entire failure to have aiy transcript whatever of the proceedings in the county court filed within sixty days, as well
as the absence of all sufficient effort to d6 so, that the dismissal
in that case was sustained. In that opinion The Republican
Yalley Railroadv. -cPherson, 12 Neb. 480, is cited with approval, in which case, although no transcript whatever was
filed within the sixty days limited by the statute, yet the evidence given by the .appellant, of diligent effort to obtain -a
transcript from the county judge and his refusal to make one
in due time, was accepted as a sufficient reason why the appeal
should not be dismissed.
We are of opinion that, where there is a transcript furnished
by the county judge, even though it be imperfect, the same
having been filed in due time, and which could be amended as
to its imperfections by the writ of certiorari,it must be held
sufficient to make the appeal valid.
For the error of the Circuit Court in dismissing the appeal
the judgment is
Reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings
according to law.

