Q96"

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Paintiff in Error.

Steel Company. Unless there was a loan there can be no
usury. The bill of,exceptions sets out no evidence to show
the transaction to have been different ,from what it appears to
be on'the face of the papers.
This covers all the points raised upon the record. We find
no error in the proceedings of the Circuit Court, and it§ judgment isacordingly
_Afwmed.

BEAN v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURlT OF

THE

UNITED

THE' WESTERN DIVISION OF THE WESTERN DISTRICT

STATES

FOR

OF MISSOURI.

Argued April 18,19,1887.-Decided May 23,1887.

The court, being satisfied that the conveyance\of real estate by the husband,
when insolvent, to a trustee for the benefit of his wife, (which is assailed
in this suit,) was made in good faith to secure an indebtedness from him
to her for sums previously realized by him from sales of her individual
property; sustain it, as combing within the doctrine, well settled here, that
while such a deed, made undei such circumstances, is not valid if its sole
purpose is to secure the wife against future necessities, it is, if made to
secure a prior existing indebtedness from the husband to the wife, as.
valid as if made to secure a like indebtedness to any other of his creditors.

Ix equity to set aside a deed as fraudulent.
ing the bill. Plaintiff appealed..

Decree dismiss-

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.James . Botsford,-(with whom was Xr. f. T. C. Williams on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error cited: Thompson v.
Thompson, 19 Maine, 244; Harris v. Erelange BankT, 4 Dillon; 133; Seitz v. Mitchell, 94- U. S. 580 ; 'Baldwin v. Whitcomb, '1 Missouri, 651 ; Hendersom v. Henderson, 55 Missouri,
554; Parish v. furphree, 13 How. 92; Fisher v. Lewis, 69
Missouri, 629 ; Keener v. Trigg, 98 U. S. 50; Hamlin v. Jones,
20 Wis. 536; Sloan v. Yorry 18 Missouri, 623; Bauer v.

BEAN, v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Bauer, 40 Missouri, 61; Boabma't's Savings Bank v. Collins,
'75 Missouri, 280; In re Jones, 6 Bissell, 68; Earl v. Chazrpion, 65 Penn. St. 191; Cark v. Rosenkrans, 31 N. J. Eq. (4
Stewart) 665 ; hIowe v. Colby, 19 Wis. 583 ; Eddy v. Baldwin,
23 Missouri, 596; E(ddy v. Baldwin, 32 Missouri, 369; Potter
v. lfcDowell, 31 Missouri, 62; Pawley v. -ogel, 42 Missouri, 291;
Woodford v. Ste2pens,'51 Missouri, 443; Stivers v. -Home, 62
Missouri, 473; Eidwell v. Hirkpatrick,'74 Missouri, 214; Leavitt v. Laforce, 71 Missouri, 353.
.3Er. G. G.Vest for appellees cited: Lloyd v. Fulton, 91 U. S.
479; Smith. v. Vodges, 92 U. S. 183; Sexton v. Theaton, 8
Wheat. 229;' .
Nattingly v. _NMye, 8 Wall. 370; Trust Co. v.'
Sedgwick, 97 U. S.301; .Hore v. Page, 111 U. S.117; Clark
v. .Killian, 103 U. S. 766 ; Lane v. Kingsbury, 11 Missouri,
402; Payne v. Stanton, 59 Missouri, 158; Burgess v. .cLean,
85 Missouri, 678; Gould v. Hill, 18 Ala. 8-; HZeck v. Clippenger, 5 Penn. St. 385; Tyson's Appeal, 10 Penn. St. 220;
Hartley v. .Turle, 5 Ves. 540; Tyler v. Lake, 2 Russ. & Mly.
183; Neimcewicz v. Ga/tn, 3 Paige, 614; S. C. 11 Wend. 312;'
Jo7ins v. Reardon, 11 Maryland, 465.; Terry v. Wilson, 63
Missouri, 493; Payne v. Twyrnan, 68 Missouri, 339; Wilcox v.
Todd, 64 Missouri, 388.

Mnrz. JUSTiCE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to set aside as fraudulent and void,
as against the plaintiffs and other creditors of the defendant
William Miller, a deed of 920 acres of land in Atchison
County, Missouri, executed by him and Mary Miller, his wife,
to William L. Patterson, as trustee, to secure to her an alleged debt of $16,000. . The deed bears date on the 10th of'.
N ovember, 1873, and recites the indebtedness to her of William Miller in the amount stated, with interest from June 23i,
1871, "being the sum realized and received by said William
Miller from the sale of the individual property of the said
M[ary Miller, and used by him in payment for the real estate
hereinbefore mentioned and described, and to secure the inVOL. cmxir-52

OCTOBER TERMT,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

debtedness of the said William Miller on account thereof,
which said sum of $16,000, with interest thereon, is due and
payable on the 25th day of June, A.D. 1876."
It appears that William Miller was, in 1857, and for some.
years afterwards, a merchant in Catasauqua County, Pennsylvania, and was successful in business there. Subsequently he
became a contractor for -the raising of mineral bres in that
state, and at a later period was .engaged in building the Lehigh and Susquehanna Railroad. In 1868 he was a contractol
on the Union Pacific Railroad. In this business he made
large sums of money. In 1873 he had a contract for building
the whole or part of the Chicago and Atlantic Railway in Ohio,
and, on the 20th of August of that year, be sublet to the
plaintiffs the construction of twelve miles of the road. By
the terms of his contract with them he was to pay for the
work of each month during the following month, after the
receipt of the estimate of the work by the engineer in charge.
The work, as thus estimated for the months of September and
October of that year, amounted to $T153, and the subsequent
work in that and the following year carried.this amount to
about $14,000. For the indebtedness thus incurred the plaintiffs brought suit in the Circuit Court of Atchison County and
sued out a writ of attachment, which was levied upon the
land embraced in the trust deed to William L. Patterson.
.Judgment was recovered in that suit for $14,000, but to the
enforcement of the attachment the trust deed to Patterson
was in the way, and, in order that the attachment might be
enforced by a sale of the land, the .present suit was commenced
to set the deed aside.
The truth of the recital, that the indebtedness, to secure
which the deed was executed, was for sums realized and
received by William Miller from the. sale of the individual
property of Mary Miller, is assailed, and the statement
averred to be false, and the instrument charged to have been
executed to defraud the plaintiffs and other creditors of Miller.
In support of the truth of the recital several deeds of valuable property'to Mrs. Miller, executed and delivered in 1865,
1,866 and 1868 were produced, and the property shown to

BEAN -v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

have been afterwards used to pay the debts of William Miller.
Thus, on the 9th of November, 1865, she received a deed from
one Thomas and wife of a certain tract of ground in Catasauqua, Pennsylvania, reciting a consideration of $8050. On
February 26, 1866, she received a deed from Horn and wife of
another tract of land in the same place, for the alleged consideration of $1200. On April 1, 1868, she acquired a further
piece of property in that place by deed -from one Kooms and
wife, reciting a consideration of $6000. These three deeds
were for "her only proper use and behoof."
It is conceded that William Miller, the husband, furnished
the money with which these several tracts were purchased.
That fact does not affect the validity of the deeds, nor the
right of the wife to hold the property for her own use. He
was at the time possessed of ample means, beyond any claim
against him. Indeed, it does not appear that he was then in
debt at all, and, as we said in Jones v. Clifton, 101 U. S.
225, 227; "The right of a husband to settle a portion of
his property upon his wife, and thus provide against the
vicissitudes of fortune, when this can be done without impairing existing claims of creditors, is indisputable. Its exercise is
upheld by the courts as tending not only to the future comfort and support of the wife, but also, through her, to the
support and education of any children of the marriage. It
arises, as said by Chief Justice Marshall, in Sexton v. Fheaton,
8 Wheat. 229, as a consequence of that absolute power
which a man possesses over his own property, by which he can
make any disposition of it which does not interfere with'the
existing rights of others." And in Mfoore v. Page, 111 U. S.
117, we said: "It is no longer a disputed question that a
husband may settle a portion: of his property upon his wife if
he does not thereby impair the claims of existing creditors,.
and the settlement is not intended as a cover to future schemes
of frand. The settlement may be made either by the purchase
of property and taking a deed thereof in her name, or by its
transfer to trustees for her benefit."
On the 14th of February, 1870, Mrs. Miller also received a
deed of a tract of land in Atchison County, Missouri, from

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Ramsey and wife, containing, as represented, about :520 acres,
and called the Ramsey farm. The consideration of this deed
is stated to have been $11,000.
In this case it appears that a portion of the claim of the
plaintiffs, amounting to 87153, was due wheii the deed of
trust was executed, and also that William Miller was at that
time insolvent. If, therefore; there had been no other consideration for the deed than a desire to secure for his wife
provision against the necessities of the future, it could not be
sustained. It must find its support in the fact alleged in the
recital, that the amount secured was a sum realized from the
sale of her individual property, and used by him. It is not
material whether the recital be accurate in stating that the sum
received from the sale of her property was used in payment
of the real estate covered by the deed; it is sufficient if Miller
was indebted to his wife in the amount mentioned. That
the property in Pennsylvania, deeds of which are mentionedabove, was used for his benefit, and to pay or secure his debts,
is sufficiently established. The amount realized therefrom, as
we read the evidence, wds greater than the sum named in the
trust deed as due to her. That deed for her security stands,
therefore, upon full consideration. Had it been given to a
third party for a like debt, it would not be open to question
that it would have been unassailable. The result is not changed
because the wife is the person to whom the debt is due and
not another. While transactions by way of purchase or
security between husband and wife should be carefully scrutinized, when they are shown to have been upon full consideration from one to the other, or, when voluntary, that the husband was at the time free from debt and possessed of ample
means, the same protection should be affoided to them as to
like transactions between third parties.
In reaching this conclusion we do not treat the Ramsey
farm in Missouri as having become the separate property of
Mrs. Miller by the conveyance being taken in her individual
name.; and therefore have no occasion to consider whether,
under the decisions of the Supreme Court of that state, it
could be protected from the creditors of her husband.

N. W. INSURANCE. CO. v. MUSKEGON BANK. 501
Syllabus.

This conclusion, with reference to the deed of trust, renders
it unnecessary to consider the numerous transactions of William Miller in the purchase and sale of property, and in his
dealings with his creditors.. They are, not always as susceptible of explanation as would be desirable. It is enough, however, that they do not weigh down the considerations we have
mentioned.
Die decr'ee i8 affirmed.

NORTHWESTERN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
MUSKEGON BANK.
FRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

SOUTHFN

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued May 4, 1887.-Decided May 27,1887.
An application for a policy of life insurance contained these questions and
answers: Q. "Are you, or have you ever been, in the habit of using
alcoholic beverages or other stimulants ?" A. "Yes, occasionally." Q.
"Have you read and assented to the following agreement?". A. "Yes."
The agreement referred to contained the following: "It is hereby decldred that the above-are the applicant's own fair and true answers to
thetforegoing questions, and that the applicant is not, and will not become, habitually intdmperate or addicted to the use of opium.". The
policy declared that if the assured should become intemperate so as to
impair his health or induce delfrium tremens, or if any statement in the
application, on the faith of which the policy was made, should be found
,to be in any material respect untrue, the policy should be void. The assured having died, his creditor for whose benefit the insurance was made
sued the insurer to recover on the policy. The defendant set up (1) that
at the time of making thd policy the insured was and had been habitually
intemperate, and that his statements on which the policy had been issued
were fraudulent and untrue; (2) That after the policy was issued he became so intemperate as to impair his health and to induce delirium tremens. On both these issues the insurer assumed the affirmative, taking.
the opening and close at the trial. Held:
(1) That the opinion of a witness as to the effect uponthe assured at the
time of the issue of the policy, of a habit of drunkenness five years
before that date (the witness knowing n6thing of them during the
intervening period), was properly excluded.

