TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
Statement of the Case.

TRA ELLERS' INSURANCE COMPANY v.
EDWARDS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued May 6,9, 1887.- Decided May 27, 1887.
P., as agent for an Insurance company in Hirtford, Connecticut, received at
Southbridge, In Massachusetts, the application of E. for an insurance
upon his life, and the premium therefor (paid May 24, 1882); transmitted
both to the company; received from the company a policy; and delivered
the latter to E. The policy contained a provision that in case of death
of the assured, his representatives should "give immediate notice in
writing to the company, stating the time, place, and cause of death,"
iud should "within seven months thereafter, by direct and reliable evidence, furnish the company with proofs of the same, giving full particulars." E. died June 19, 1882. P. was verbally informed of it on the
same day, and a day or two afterwards informed th family that he was
going to Hartford, and would notify the company of the death, and
would procure the necessary blanks for proof. He went there, gave the
notice to the company, with all the information in his possession, obtained the blanks, and gave them to a representative of the administratrix, telling him to return them to him (P.) when completed. The blanks
were filled in ant were returned to P. on the 3d of July, 1882. When
more than seven months had expired after the death, P., who had not
forwarded the papers to Hartford, returned them to the administratrix,
saying that they were incomplete, and asking for fuller information.
The papers were then completed in'accordance with P.'s directions, were
returned to him January 29, 1883, and were by him transmitted to the
company February 7, 1883, and received by it without objection.
Held, That without deciding whether the verbal notice to P. was a sufficient compliance with the terms oT the contract in that respect, or whether
it would have been sufficient to deliver the proofs of death to P., if there
were no more than that in the case, tile action of the company, upon
Pfs communicating the death of E., and its delivering to him of blank
affidavits and forms to be filled up, together with the subsequent correspondence, show that P. was regarded throughout by the company as its
agent; and the company is therefore bound by what he did.

Tins was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York.
The defendant in error, Catherine L. Edwards, obtained a

.458

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

judgment in the Circuit Court for the sun of $53S7.50 against
the Travellers' Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut,
on a policy of insurance upon the life of her brother, Frank
Edwards. The suit was originally instituted in the Supreme.
Court for Ontario County, N~ew York, from whence it was
removed by the plaintiff in error into the Circuit Court of the
United States for that District.
The record of a long trial before a jury was presented to
the court in a stenograpbic report of the proceedings there,
which had been adopted by the partie.s and by the judge trying the case as a bill of exceptions. It was obvious from this
paper' that the main controversy before the jury was upon a
question of suicide set up by the defendant company, but the
brief of the plaintiff in error and his assignment of errors eliminated all this and relied upon the defence stated by the brief
in the following language:
"Trial was had before a jury, and a verdict was rendered
for the plaintiff, and the questions now arising are whether the
plaintiff below complied with those conditions of the policy
which required written notice to the company of the death of
the deceased, and proofs of the same within seven months
thereafter; whether the action was prematurely brought by
reason of the plaintiff's failure to comply with such conditions
of the policy before bringing suit; and whether certain details of evidence bearing upon the foregoing questions were
properly admitted against the objection of the company."
The assignments of error corresponded with this statement,
and were given verbatim, as follows:.
"The Circuit Court erred "1. In that it admitted testimony relating to the acts ind
statements of Mr. E. M. Phillips, the local agent of the insurance company at Southbridge, Mass., with reference to the
notice of death to be given by the defendant in error to
the insurance company and the delivery and reception of the
proofs of death, as binding the company and affecting the
rights and duties of the parties to the contract of insurance,
it not appearing that Phillips had authority to represent or
bind 'the company in this regard. (Record, pp. 22, 23, 28, 29,
58, 77.)

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
Statement of the Case.

"2. In that the court charged the jury as follows : 'If upon
this evidence you. find that upon the 3d of July, or during the
seven months limited by the contract, the proofs of death
which have been referred to were served upon 1r. Phillips,
who was held out by this company to be its agent, under the
circumstances detailed in this case'-that is, if you believe
that he stated to the representatives of this assured that the
proofs were to be left with him, and served upon him and not
upon the company -then, I say, for the purposes of this case,
that that was sufficient service upon the company, within the
provisions of the contract.' (Charge, p. -79.)
"3. In that it refused to rule that the defendant in error
had not furnished evidence of the notice of death required
by the policy, inasmuch as there was no evidence that any
notice in writing was given to the company after the death
of Edwards, or that proofs of death were furnished to or
served upon the company, and within seven month- of his
death, as required by the policy. (pp. 29, 77, 78.)
"4. In that the court declined to charge the jury as follows:
'That, under the undisputed evidence in this case, the jury
must find a verdict for the defendant under the facts alleged
in the second separate answer.' (p. 82; S&cond separate answer, p. 3.)
"5. In that it refused to rule that the suit was prematurely
brought, because the plaintiff below had not at the time furnished due notice and proofs of deith,. as required by the
policy, and ninety days thereafter had not elapsed. (p. 78.)"
The language of the policy upon this point was as follows .
"That in the event of the death of the person insured, then
the party assured, or his or her legal representatives, shall give
immediate notice in writing to the company at Hartford,
Conn., stating the time, place, and cause of death, and shall
within seven months thereafter, by direct and reliable evidence, furnish the company with proofs of the same, giving
full particulars, without fraud or concealment of any lkind."
The answer of the defendant alleged that the plaintiff did
not give to the defendant, at Hartford, or elsewhere, immediate notice in writing of the death of the said insured, and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

that defendant did not receive from said plaintiff notice of
the death of the said jFrank Edwards until the 10th day of
February, 1883, his death occurring on June 19, 1882, and that
the plaintiff did not, within seven months after the last mentioned date, give notice in writing to the defendant, at Hartford, or elsewhere, nor iii the manner and form as required by
the policy, and has not delivered to or ffirnished the defendant
with proofs of the death of said Frank Edwards, with full
particulars, but, on the contrary, failed and neglected so to do.
The evidence on this subject showed sabstantially that Phillips was the agent at Southbridge, Massachusetts, of the defendant corporation; that the application on which the policy issued
was forwarded by Phillips to Hartford, the policy returned to
him, and by him delivered to Edwards; that the receipt for
the premium, signed by Rodney Dennis, secretary of the company, declared -in the body of it that the policy would not be
valid "until the above stated premium has been received during
the lifetime of said Frank Edwards, and this receipt countersigned by E. M. Phillips, agent of this company at Southbridge, Mass." On the margin of the receipt was the statement that "the agent who receives the within premium should
countersign this receipt, and invariably state over his signature
the date at which the payment is made to him." Across its
face was written: " The within premium received and this
receipt countersigned by me this 24th day of May, 1882. E. XM.
Phillips, agent at So.uthbridge, Mass." It was further indorsed:
"All policies and agreements made by this company are signed
by its president or secretary. No other person can alter or
waive any of the conditions of the policies or issue permits
of any dnd, or make agreements binding upon said company.
Rodney Dennis, secretary."
The evidence further showed that on the day after the death
of Edwards. a gentleman named Bartholomew, who was a
friend, and probably the attorney, of the family, met Mr.
Phillips in the street; that Phillips said -to him in regard to
Edwards, whose death was then just known, that he was insured in the Travellers' Life Insurance Company, and that
he (Phillips) was going to Hartford. The witness, Bartholo-

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
Statement of the Case.

mew, testifies: "I asked him if that was so. I didn't at that
time know that he had a policy in that company. He said he
was going to Hartford, and would give to the company the
notice of his death, and would procure the blanks for the proofs
of loss. I asked him if it would do as well for him to give the
notice to the company in that way as for any party interested.
lIe said it would, and I think that was all that was said then;
saw Mr. Phillips some days after that; met him somewhere in
the street-can't tell where-and he told me he had been
to Hartford and had procured the blanks, and that if I would
come to his office he would deliver them to me."
The other evidence in the case, including that of Mr. Dennis,
the secretary of the company, left no doubt 'of the fact that
Mr. Phillips informed him of the death of Edwards, and of
all that was known about it at that time, though very little
was known in Southbridge, as he died in Boston. Mr. Dennis
gave Phillips the blanks for the regular proofs of death, which
the company always required, which blanks containedinstructions as to how these proofs should be made out, and what
should be contained in the affidavits directed by the company
to be made.
Mr. Phillips delivered these papers to Bartholomew within
a day or two after his visit to Hartford, and said to him,
"When you get them completed I want you to return them
to me." This Bartholomew swears to positively, and Phillips,
while he does not recall the direction to return them to him;
says that he is not willing to swear to the contrary.
These affidavits were made out and delivered to Phillips on
the third day of July. Through some neglect on his part they
remained in his office beyond the period of seven months
which the policy fixed -as the time within which they shouhl
have been delivered at the Hartford office. Iis attention having been brought to these papers in some manner, not particu-.
larly described, he called upon Bartholomnei, with them and
stated that they were not sufficient in regard to the particulars
of the death of .Edwards. They wero afterwards retir'ned to
Phillips, who forwarded them to the company abola the '7th
day of February, 1883, which the co1mpay insisted here was
'too late.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

The whole of the testimony upon this narrow issue turned
upon the question whether the absence of a written notice of.
the death of the insured, when the company had full notice of
it through Phillips, their agenit, and whether the delivery of
the pdroofs of death to the company after the expiration of the
seven months, although they had been delivered to the agent
Phillips within the time required, should defeat a recovery.
.The opinion of the judge who tried the case, on a motion
for a new trial, stated the facts as he understood them, and,
as this court thought, with accuracy, together with his view of
the law of the subject, so well that they are transcribed here:
'The facts are as follows: The insured- died June 19, 1882.
A day or two afterwards E. M. Phillips, who is described in
the receipt referred to as ' agent of this company at Southbridge, Mass.,' met one of the family of the deceased on the
street, informed him that he was going to Hartford and would
give the company the requisite notice, and would procure the
necessary blanks for the proofs of death. He did go to Hartford on or about the 21st of June, saw th Secretary of the
company, gave him notice of the death, stating all the particulars which he then knew, and obtained the blank proofs. On
his return he handed the blanks to one of the plaintiff's representatives, saying at the time, ' When you get them completed
I want you to return them to me.' They were filled out and
delivered to him July 3, 1882. He retained them for several
months, and then returned them to a brother of the plaintiff,
saying that thedy were incomplete, and demanded additional
information. On the 29th of January, 1883, they were again
delivered to Phillips, and by him sent to the company on or
about the 'th of February. The company, in acknowledging
their receipt, made no objection that they were received too
late, and retained them in its possession. They were produced
on the trial by the defendant's counsel.
"It must be held that, if the plaintiff has not followed the
contract literally in these particulars, it was because she was
misled by the course of the defendant, and that the defendant
is not now in a position to take advantage of the plaintiff's
omission, having waived a strict performance of the contract."

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

See
.225.
-.2.

dwards v. Travellers' Insurance Co., 22 Blatchford,

Solomon Zincoln for plaintiff in error.

The evidence fails to show that the defendant in error complied with the conditions of the policy in respect to notice, because: First. It does not appear that written notice of the
death was given to the company. It was not even given to
Phillips. Second. As matter of law, it fails to show that
Phillips had authority to receive notices in behalf of the company. Such authority must be proved affirmatively, and there
is no evidence that it existed.
In the first place, there is no direct evidence of it. Phillips'
duties, as testified to by himself and by his superior, Dr. Lewis,
do not confer or imply it. They are strictly defined and limited, and do not include the authority claimed. His own declarations, as such, are not competent to prove it; and there is
no evidence that any declarations or acts of his in excess of
his authority,.as strictly defined by himself and by the company, were ever ratified by the company, or even brought to
its kn6wledge. The indorsement placed upon the proofs of
death at Hartford is purely clerical, and even if assumed to be
placed there by direction of the company has no legal significance. It was not communicated to the assured, and was a
mere private memorandum. Nothing can be inferred from it
prejudicial to the company.
Nor can the required authority be inferred from the general
scope of employment of Mr. Phillips. There is a complete
failure of evidence in this regard. It does not appear that he
had any general duties or discharged any other than those
limited ones heretofore considered.
' Therefore, the only deduction possible from all this testimony, as matter of law, is that Phillips was not a general but
a special agent of the company, with duties and authority
strictly limited to one branch of its business, iz., the'life
department, and, in that, to receiving applications for insurance, forwarding such to the company, delivering the policy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

if written, and collecting the premium. 'He had no authority
to represent it in any other regard, and consequently he had
no authority to accept notices for the company. This power
the company had chosen to reserve to itself.
Therefore, it is submitted that the court- erred when it ruled
that service of notice upon Phillips and delivery of proofs
to him was service upon and delivery to the company, and
admitted evidence of such service and delivery, and especially
erred in using the following language in the charge to the
jury: "If you believe that he (Phillips) stated to the representatives of this assured that the proofs were to be left with
him, and served upon him, and, not upon the company, then
I say for the purposes of this case, that that was sufficient
service upon the company within the provisions of the contiact." This language appears to involve the proposition that
agency can be established simply by the declarations of the
agent. It was certainly likely to mislead the jury, and to
lead them to believe that they could find that Phillips had
authority to receive notice for the company simply from his
own assertions.
It. follows, also, if the contention of the plaintiff in error is
sound, that the court should have ruled that the defendant
in err6r had not furnished evidence of the notice of death
required by the policy, inasmuch as no notice in writing was
given to the company after the death of Edwards, and no
proofs of death were furnished to or served upon the company
within seven months of his death as required by the policy;
that the court should have ordered a verdict for the defendant under the facts alleged in the second separate answer;
and, also, presenting the same conclusion in another aspect,
should have ruled that the action was prematu'rely brought,
inasmuch as it was not brought ninety days after due notice
and proof as required by the policy.
Although the rulings of the court below relate to the effect
of notice to Phillips as affecting the company, and this brief
has consequently discussed the case in that aspect, it may be
proper to call attention to the fact that there is no claim that
written notice of death was delivered to the company itself at

TRAVELLERS'

INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Hartford, as distinct from Phillips, nor were proofs of loss
furnished to the company itself, as distinct from Phillips,
within seven months of the death of the assured. The defendant in error must therefore rely and rest upon the notices
given to Phillips as being notices given to the company.
The error heretofore considered, strictly stated, is the error
in ruling that Phillips so represented the cmpany that notice
to him was notic3 to the company. Waiver of the conditions
of the policy relating to notice and proofs of death is not
pleaded by the defendant in error and was not made an issue
at the trial, and, it is submitted, is not now open to discussion,
but, lest it may be claimed to be implicitly involved in the
rulings discussed, it seems proper to observe that there is no
evidence of waiver of these conditions by the company. These
conditions could not be waived for the company by Phillips.
He was expressly limited in this resiect by the premium
receipt and by the policy, and this limitation was thus brought
to the notice of the assured. The company itself did not
waive these comiditions. It was simply silent, except that after
the assured had failed to furnish proofs of death within seven
months, it asked for the analysis of the stomach of the deceased. It did no act by which the assured was misled or her
position affected. It is suggested that the company in aclmowledging the receipt of the proofs made no objection that they
were received too late, and retained them in its possession.
It is submitted that they were under no obligation so to inform
the assured or to return the proofs. It does not appear that
failure to do either of these things either did or could mislead
the assured or affect her rights as matter of law.
Massachusetts was the locus contractus, and the law of
Massachusetts should govern the construction of the the contract if different principles prevailed in different jurisdictions;
but the law herein applicable, as administered by this court
and by the courts of Massachusetts and -New York, is the
same, and, it is submitted, supports the position of the plaintiff
in error. _olot. v. ins. Co., 121 Mass. 439; S8azo'nnt Stqqalr
eAting Co. v. I5,s. Co., 12 Gray, 439; .Jfarkey v. Ans. Co..
103 Mass. 78, 93; An.s. Co. v. TFoy,, 95 U. S. 326; New orZ
VOL. cXXn-30

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Life Ins. Co. v. Fletcher, lM7 U. S. 519; Bush v. Ins. Co., 63
N. Y. 531; Van? Allen v. Ins. Co., 64 N. Y. 469; TFalse v.
Ins. Co., 13 N. Y. 5; Xarvin v. Ins. Co., 85 N. Y. 278; Cole
v. Ins. Co., 99 N. Y. 36.
Mr. TilliNam _Aathanie Cogswell for defendant in error.
.Xr. iliam F. Cogswell was with him on the brief.

MR. JusTicE

, ILLER, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
Without deciding whether this notice to Phillips, of the
death of Edwards, would have been a sufficient compliance
with the contract requiring a written notice of the death to
be given to the company at Hartford, if it had been attempted
to comply with the condition in that manner, and without
deciding whether, if the proofs of death had been made out
and delivered to Phillips, with no more in the case than that,
it would have been a sufficient compliance with that provision,
we are of opinion that the whole course of dealing by the
company with Phillips and with the plaintiff below establish
the proposition that the company recognized Phillips as its
agent for these purposes, and so acted upon his information
of the death of Edwards as to accept that as sufficient
notice, and to constitute him their agent for the purpose of
receiving the proofs of death. Phillips went to the office of
the company in Hartford; he there gave the information of
the death of Edwards to the company, with such particulars
as were then known in regard to the incidents of his death.
The acting officer of the company, the man who in his own
testimony describes himself as having charge of claims for
losses by death, then furnished him with the requisite blanks
for the further proof required by formal affidavits of the parties. This officer knew that Phillips was treated by the insured as the agent of the company for giving this notice, he
accepted that notice, he acted upon it, and he intrusted
Phillips, who was an agent of the coilipany, and had been so
for ten years or more, with the forms of affidavits necessary

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. EDWARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

to show what the company required to be proved in order to
justify them in paying the money upon the policy. Phillips
undertook this business, delivered these blank affidavits, and
stated to the plaintiff's agent that they were to be returned
to him when completed. They were so returned to him, but,
without sending them to the company, after keeping them a
long time in his possession, he again gave them to the plaintiff's agent, with the declaration that they were imperfect, and
suggested further proofs.
Soon after this they were returned to him, though it is not
stated whether any further proofs were made out or not, and
he then forwarded them to the company. -He evidently considered himself as the agent of the company when he required
additional proofs. As confirmatory of this, the evidence
shows that the company received the proofs without objection,
and when sometime afterwards a brother of the plaintiff made
an inquiry of the company in regard to them, they acknowledged that they had received them on the 10th day of February, but made no objection that it was too late. They also
acknowledged the receipt of "papers in the case of Frank
Edwards," in the following letter, dated February 9, 1883:
"E. M. Phillips, Esq., Ag't, Southbridge, Mass.
"Dear Sir: Your letter of the 7th inst., with papers *inthe
case of Frank Edwards, at hand. We understand a chemical
analysis of his stomach was made. We should like a full report of the analysis certified to by the chemist who made it.
RODNEY DENNrs, Sec'y."
"Yours truly,
In this there was no hint that the papers were received too
late, or that no sufficient notice had been given, but simply
the expression of a desire for further information with regard
to the actual facts of the case, which would have been useless
if the company intended to rely upon the failure to give this
notice in time.
Afterwards, on March 10, 1883, S. K. Edwards, "for Katy
L. Edwards," the plaintiff below, -wrote to the company asking for the date of proof of death of Mr. Frank Edwards and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

when it was received at ihe office.
reply Was made:

To this the. following

"The Travellers' Insurance Co., Claim Department,
"Hartford, Ct., March 13, 1883.
"S. K. Edwards, Southbridge, Mass.
"Dear Sir: In reply to yours of 10th inst., would say that
we received a letter from agent Phillips, dated February 7,
1883, wherein he writes: ' I found the inclosed upon my table
on my return home, and forward the same.' The inclosed
were incomplete proof papers relating to the death of Mr.
Frank Edwards, and we acknowledged the receipt of same
Feb'y 9th, asking for a full report of the analysis of
Edwards' stomach, the report to be certified by the chemist
who made the analysis. We have no further intelligence respecting the matter.
"Yours truly,

RoDNEr Drnms, Sec'y.'

On March 20, S. K. Edwards, on behalf of his sister,
again wrote to the company making inquiry if February 9
was the first time they had the proofs of the death of Frank
Edwards, to which the following reply was made:
"March 21st, 1883.
"S. I. Edwards, Esq., Southbridge, Mass.
"Dear Sir: Your letter of the 20th inst. is at hand. We
received the incomplete proofs of death, to which we alluded
in our letter of 13th inst., on the 10th of February for the first
and only time. We have only received them once.
"Yours truly,
IRODNEY DENNs, Sec'y."
During all the correspondence -which passed upon this subject, Mr. Dennis, the officer of the company, nowhere intimates
that these proofs came too late, or that they were rejected by
the company, but the only complaint made was, that he had
not received the chemical analysis of the contents of the
stomach.
UTnder all the circumstances of this case, we are of opinion
that the company treated Phillips as their agent for the pur-

CLINTON v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY.

469

Syllabus.

pose of the early notice of the death of Edwards, and also the
receipt of the final proofs thereof, and that it is too late for
them now to undertake to defeat this action upon the ground
that he was not their agent for any of these purposes.
We do not deem it necessary to go into a critical examination of the authorities upon the questions so often raised of
the powers of agents of this class. We simply hold that,
whether upon the face of the policy, and the receipt with its
indorsements, taken alone, Phillips can be held to have been
the agent of the company to whom the notices in question
could be properly delivered or not, that the action of the company upon Phillips' communications to its secretary at Hartford of the information of the death of Edwards, and its delivery to him of the blank affidavits and forms which it required
to be filled up, together with the subsequent correspondence,
show conclusively that the company considered Phillips as its
agent throighout the transaction with regard to these notices,
and it is, therefore, bound by what he did.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

CLINTON v. MISSOU:RI PACIFIC RAILWAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASIKA.
Submitted May 11, 1887.-Decded May 27, 1887.

The assignment of error in this case is precise and specific, and complies
with the requirements of the rule in that respect.
No exceptions were necessary to bring before this court the judgment of
the Circuit Court *below dismissing the appeal from the Cass County
Court to the District Court of that county.
When a cause is removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the United
States, the transcript from the state court forms part of the record in
the Circuit Court, and in any writ of error from this court necessarily
becomes a part of the record here.
The sixty days during which a right of appeal is given by the statutes of
Nebraska from the assessment of damages by commissioners appointed

