GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Statement of the Case.°

between the grantor and his children; and, in the absence of
fraud, could not be questioned by the assignee, who took only
such rights as the bankrupt had. Yeatman v. Savings Inst.,
95 U. S. 764, 766; Stewart v. Platt, 101 U. S. 731, 738; Hauselt v. Harrison,105. IT.S. 4,01, 406; iRev. Stat. § 5046. It
could only be avoided by creditors who were such at the date
of the conveyance. Warren v. Moody, ante, 132.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the assignee in
bankruptcy of Barnes has no valid claim to said land-, or any
of them; and that the deed of 1863 was not void as between
him and the grantees therein. The Circuit Court erred in
declaring it to be void, and in ordering the sale of the lands,
under the direction of the District Court, as part of the bankrupt's estate.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to set aside the entire decree of .Nfovemler 25, 1882,
and for such further proceedings a&are consistent with
this opinion.

G00DLETT ,v.LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE
RAILROAD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT coUmT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
.flDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued April 4, 1887. -Decided May 27, i837.
The Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company is a corporation of Kentucky, and not of Tennessee, having from the latter state only a license
'to construct a railroad within its limits; between certain points, and to
exert there some of its corporate powers.
The rule announced in Phenif Insurance Company v. Doster, 106 U. S. 32,
and in Randall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, 111 U. S. 482, as to when
a case may be withdrawn from a jury by a peremptory instruction, reaffirmed.

Tmis action was brought in the Circuit Court of Williamson
County, Tennessee, by Simon Callahan, to recover damages
for personal injuries sustained by him while in. the discharge

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of his duties as section foreman on a railrobd between Nashville, Tennessee, and Decatur, Alabama, which at the time,
was operated by the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company. The declaration alleged that the defendant was a corporation created by the legislature of Tennessee, and that the
injuries complained of were caused by the negligence and
carelessness of that company, its servants and agents. In
due time, the defendant filed its petition, accompanied by
bond in proper form, for the removal of the action into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of
Tennessee - alleging that the plaintiff was a citizen of Tennessee, and that the defendant was a citizen of Kentucky,
having its principal place of business in that commonwealth.
The state court made an order recognizing the right of re
moval, and declaring that no further proceedings be had
therein in said suit.
-In the Circuit Court, a motion to remand the cause to the
state court - the ground of such motion being that the defendant was a corporation of Tennessee, and therefore a citizen of the same state with the plaintiff - was denied. To
that action of the court an exception was taken.
Upon the trial of the case the court gave a peremptory
instruction to find for the defendant. It also refused to give
the instructions asked in behalf of the plaintiff. The plaintiff
sued out this writ ot error.
-Mr. F. E. Williams, at the argument of the case, submitted
for plaintiff in error on' his brief. -Mr'. Bate was with him on
ihe brief.
We concede for the plaintiff in error that the defendant
company was first chartered by the state of Kentucky. Bat
we insist wuat it was also chartered by the state of Tennessee;
and that its stgatus is the s{me in Tennessee as if it had been
origirially created by that state, because that state adopted it.
Such would be tie law if these were the facts in the case.
J[8ii1l,Jv._Dows, 941 U. S.444; UphqFv. Chicago & St. Lowis
/Ifitton,13
Railroad, 5 Fed. Rep. 545; Railway Co. v.
'Wall. 270.

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

We furthermore concede, if the legislation of Tennessee had
no greater effect than merely to license and permit the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, as a foreign corporation, to have "a right of way to construct its road" in Tennessee, that such license would not convert the company into
a corporation of the latter state. But we submit that Tennessee has done more than this-- has not only granted a
right of way to construct a road, but has conferred power to
construct it, and also charter privileges in such terms as to
adopt this corporation and make it its own. The question
is always a question of intent. Railroad Co. v. harris, 12
Wall. 65, 83; and all the statutes which relate to the question
must be read by themselves. Railroad Co. v. Schutte, 103
U. S. 118, 140.
The first act passed by Tennessee was enacted December 4,
1851, and is entitled "An act to incorporatethe Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company." Jannary 10, 1852, another act
was passed, entitled "An act to amend the charter of the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, passed the 4:th of
December, 1851." December 15, 1855, still another act was
passed, entitled: "An act to amend an act, entitled 'An act
to charter the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Conrpany,
and the several acts amending said act passed by the legislatp -. , of Eentucky and Tennessee."
March 20, 1858, a fourth
a.; wvas passed, entitled "An act to amend the charter, and
several acts amendatory thereto, passed by the legislature of
Tennessee and Kentucky incorporatinga company to construct
a railroad from the city of Louisville to the city of Nashville."
These titles of acts unmistakably indicate that the legislatures of Tennessee thought they were creating a corporation
in part, and that the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company owed its existence to Tennessee as well as to Kentucky.
In this opinion the legislature of Kentucky also shared. On
the 21st day of February, 1868, the legislature of that state
passed an act to amend the charter of this company. Among
other things this act so amended the charter as to authorize
the company to consolidate with other roads. It authorized
the consolidating companies to adopt such name as they might

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

choose, and expressly provided that in such name it should
have all the powers and privileges conferred upon said company "by the laws of .Kentucky and Tennessee."
It being apparent now what the legislature of Tennessee
intended to do, and also that the legislatures of both states believed that Tennessee had succeeded therein, the question is
whether in point of fact sitch intent had been carried into
effect. We submit that it had.
The Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company was chartered by the state of Kentucky March 5, 1850. This charter
act was amended by that state M arch 20, 1851. An examination
of the charter contained in these acts will disclose that no
power is granted or conferred to build a foot of road or to
operate a road in Tennessee even upon the condition of procuring that state's consent. It empowers the company to
build a road from Louisville in the direction of Nashville, but
only to the Tennessee line. So much of the act as confers the
powers upon the company is contained in the fourteenth section of the act of 1850, and is as follows: "SECTION 14. That
the President and Directors of said company are hereby
vested with all powers and rights necessary to the construction crf
a railroad from the city of Louisville to the Tennessee
line, in the di ection, of Nashville." Where, then, did the
company get the pozeer to constiact a road in Tennessee, except from Tennessee? The first section of the Tenn essee act
of December 4, 1851,'standing alone, is susceptible of the construction that it only grants a mere right of way, but the act
as a whole does more. It abrogates and declares void (in the
sixth section) two sections of the charter granted .by Kentucky, and the seventh section adds four sections to the charter granted by the state of Kentucky, with the declaration
that these four added sections "are hereby made a part of the
char tr of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company."
December 15, 1855, the legislature of Tennessee passed an act,
entitled "An act to' amend an act to charter the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company, and the several acts amending said act passed by the legislatures of KYentucky and Tennessee," which made, certain provision, with reference to a lien

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in the event "said company shall receive the aid of the state
of Tennessee." This act also contained other important
amendatory provisions. The first section empowered the
company to sell its bonds. The third' section provided what
disposition should be made of the profits realized on the stock
in the company held by the city of Louisville, -Hy., and -also
that the holders of the bonds to be issued might-demand and
receive stock for their bonds, upon certain named- contin,
gencies. Sections :5 and 16 authorized- the tax-payers of
Sumner and Davidson Counties, in Tennessee, to demand
stock for the money paid by them as taxes, used to pay the
interest on the bonds issued- by those counties to aid in the
construction of the road. Section 11 of said act consolidated
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company and the Edgefield and Kentucky Railroad Company (a Tennessee corporation) for the purpose of building a bridge across the'Cumberland River at Nashville, and gave each company $100,000 for
that purpose. The twelfth section of the-act also conferred
upon these two companies above named the power to construct
a road not exceeding ten miles in length to be used in common.
Section 14 provided for the addition of two directors to the
number allowed by the original charter; and § 15 conferred
_ower to make certain agreements with any county through
which the road passed. Section 6 conferred upon the company the power to buy negroes to be used for the-construction
or operation of the road; and then when they should no
longer be needed for that purpose, to sell or hire them, either
in Kentucky or Tennessee.
The act of Tennessee passed M arch 20, 1858, after declaring
in its title that it is an act to amend the charter granted by
the legislatures of Kentucky and Tennessee, provides as follows: "SECTIoN 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
the state of Tennessee, That the several acts of the states of
IHentucky and TLennessee, be and are herebl amended by the
additional sections." Section 2 confers power to issue bonds.
Section 4 provides for a sinking fund (to meet the bonds) to
be set apart by the -"lresident and Directors of said company." Section 5 provides that "the issue of the bonds

OCTOBER TER11,

1886.

Argument for Plaintif in Error.

herein authorized shall be conclusive evidence of the acceptance of the company of this as an amendment to their charter."
Such are a few of the important powers conferred upon this
company by the state of. Tennessee. The terms in which
these powers are conferred; the fact that all of them are
important, and that many of them were essential (to enable
the road to get from the state line to Nashville); the pecuniary
aid of $10,000 per mile, and $100,000 for a bridge, granted'
by Tennessee; the concurrent legislative interpretation of
these statutes by both states, as being charter statutes confer-"
ring,organic power upon the company, and not simply granting a mere right of way - make it indubitable that the state
of Tennessee has adopted this company and conferred upon it
like powers to those granted to corporations of its own creation.
One state can make a corporation of another state, as there
organized and conducted, a corporation of its own, quoad any
property within its territorial jurisdiction. OJ-aham v. Boston,
_lar/ord& 'Eie Railroad,118 U. S. 161, 168; Railroad Co.
v. Harris, 12 WaJl 65, 82. And this is allowable, for the
reason that a corporation of one state has no existence as a
legal entity or persoil in another state, except*under and by
virtue of its incorporation by the latter state., Mfemphis, &c.,
Railroa Co. v. Alabama, 107TU. S.581, 585 ; -Miller v. _Dows,
94 U. S. 444; Railroad Co. v. Vance, 96 U. S.450; Stone v.
Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307; Uykof v. Oldcago, &c., Railroad,5 Fed. Rep. 545. When these cases are
considered, all together, it is settled, that when it is apparent
from the powers conferred, the language used, and the manner in which the powers conferred are to be exercised, that the
second state- means and intends to create a corporation in
whole or in part; or to adopt one already created by another
state, and give it a status such as would have been given to
the corporation as a "person" of its own creation, then such
corporation will be regarded as a. corporation of the latter
state, with respect to suits brought in such state.
Inasmuch as this corporation is not only indebted to the
state of Tennessee foi a large share of the corpprate powers it

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Additional Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

possesses, but for its very existence, since the generous manner
in which the state bestowed pecuniary aid and assistance
enabled it to be constructed, it ought to be very clear that this
creature of Tennessee cannot be brought to justice in her
courts before it is so decided. Under the circumstances doubts,
if any there be, must be resolved in favor of 'the state.
For these reasons we respectfully submit that the case
should be reversed, to the end that it may be remanded to the
state court of Tennessee in which it was originally instituted.
313'. Edward Baxter for defendant in error.
After argument the following order was made by the court,
April 18, 1887.
Leave is granted counsel on both sides to file additional
printed arguments on the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth assignments of error at any time before Monday, May 2, if they
desire to do so. It is the wish of the court that this be done.
. fr. F. E. Williams under this order submitted a brief for
plaintiff in error.
The court charged the jury as follows: The court amongst
other things charged the jury that the question of jurisdiction
was for the court, and that the defendant had the right to
remove, and had removed, the cause from the state court to
the United States Circuit Court; that the legislature of Tennessee had not incorporated the defendant, but had merely
given to it, as a corporation of the state of Kentucky, a license
or privilege to extend its railroad through Tennessee from the
Kentucky line to Nashville; that this case fell under the authority of the case of The Railroad Conpany v. Harris,12
Wall. 65, 86.
"This brings us, gentlemen of the jury, to that part of the
case within your province. The evidence in the case satisfies
me' that the defendant complied with the requirements of §
1166, Code of Tennessee, so far as the circumstances attending
plaintiff's injury are concerned. Plaintiff was an employe of
defendant and bound to use at least the care ,id diligence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Additional Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

a reasonable and prudent man in its service. He seems to
have gone two or three times to the agent at Franklin to inquire the time, thus showing that something had raised his
apprehensions and put -him, on his inquiry. He stopped his
hand-car and listened for approaching trains, and yet went
into the-deep cut and sharp curve, where he was hurt, without
having sent any flagman or other person ahead to warn him
or the train of approaching danger. In this he did not exer:cise reasonable care and prudence, but was guilty of negligence, so that had the people upon the train or the persons
controlled by him been injured, they could have recovered
against his employer for his negligence. Under the facts
proven in this case, were you to give a verdict against the
defendant, I should feel bound to set it aside and grant a new
trial., In such a state of the case it is my duty to instruct you
to find a verdict for the defendant, and I accordingly do so, declining to give the instructions requested by plaintiff's counsel."
The assignments of error referred to in. the order of the 18th
of April are as follows:
Third. The court erred in taking the case from the jury,
and in saying to them: "The evidence in the case satisfies me
that the defendant complied with the requirements of § 1166,
Code of Tennessee, so far as the .circumstances attending
plaintiff's injuries are concerned."
Fourth. The court erred in charging the jury as follows:
"Under the facts proven in this case, were you to give a ver.dict against the defdndant, I should feel bound to set it aside
and -grant a new trial. In such a state of the cage it is my
duty to instruct you to find a verdict for the defendant,. and I
accordingly do so, declining to give the instructions requested
by plaintiff's counsel."
Fith. The court erred in charging the jury, in:'effect" that
the plaintiff did not exercise reasonable care, but was guilty
of negligence, and that this negligence defeated any- right-of
Sixth. The court -erred -in withdrawing the case frtinm' the
jurywhen there were disputed facts in issue. _
, -The charge of the judge presiding below shows that -the

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Additional Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

question of negligence was considered by him as one determinative of the plaintif's right to recover. Said the judge:
"Plaintiff was an employe of defendant and bound to use at
least the care and diligence of a reasonable and prudent man in
its service.

He went into the deep cut and sharp curve,

where he was hurt, without having sent any flagman or other
person ahead to warn him or the train of approaching danger. In this he did not exercise reasonable care and prudence,
but was guilty of negligence."
And for this reason he said: "The evidence in the case satisfies me that the defendant complied with the requirements of §
1166, Code of Tennessee, sofar as the circumstances attending
p2aintiff's injury are concerned."
It is obvious that the plaintiff's "negligence" and '4want of
care" in going into the cut and sending no flagman forward,
were the chief "1circumstances attending the plaintiff's injury,"
which satisfied his honor that the railroad company had complied with the requirements of the Code of Tennessee. But,
as he had that conception of the law, he naturally concluded
that he could not allow a verdict against the defendant (if
one should be rendered) to stand; and he directed a verdict to
be returned for the defendant.
We respectfully submit that this is an erroneous interpretation of the statutes regulating the running of railroads in
Tennessee. See ill v. Louisville &. .. ashville Railroad, 9
ileiskell, 823; -Louisville& .A'asville Railroad v. .lfc.enna,
7 Lea, 313; Railroadv. Gardner, 1 Lea,'688, 691.
The statute is imperative. If the company fail to observe
a7l the statutory rpquirements, it is responsible even- though
the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence. Contributory negligence does not affect the plaintiff's 9-ight to
rec, ;er, but must be considered in dtigation of damages.
ilVashville, &c., Railroad v. Nowlin, 1 Lea,.523 ; Railroad v.
Gardner, 1 Lea, 688, 692; Zouiwilld & .Yashville Railroadv.
Connonr, 2 Baxter, 382, 388; Naskvill, &c., Railroadv. Smith,
6 I-eiskell, 174; Railroadv. Walker, 11 Heiskell, 383, 385, 36.
The fact that the injured person is an employe of the coinpany is imnmaterial, so far as the general lines of the road are

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Additional Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

concerned; but there is one exceptional case wherein the fact
that the person guilty of contributory negligence is an em*ploye is material, and goes to the very right of action. "The
statute, in terms, makes no exception." But the courts of
Tennessee have made one, which is that this statute does not
apply to the ermployes of the company engaged in "making
up" trains and switching cars, c&o., in the yards and depots of
the company. Louisville & Nagshville Railroad v. Robertson,
9 Heiskell, 276, 282; aley v. MAfobile & Ohio Railroad,7 Baxter, 239, 244; Iforan v. Nashville, &c., RailroadCo., 2 Baxter,
379, 381.
The precautions which the statute prescribes are of .two
kinds- general and particular. The particular, specified in
the statute, are: (a) To always keep a lookout ahead; (b)
when any person, animal, or other obstruction appears upon
fhe track to sound the alarm whistle; (c) and put the brakes
down. The general precautions are demanded by the words,
"every possible means." By this is understood that the engine
shall be reversed; that all the brakes were applied; that there
were sufficient brakemen; that the machinery was in good
order, and up to the present state of the art; and that the
employes used all the means at their command to stop the
train and prevent the accident.
And the burden of proof is on the company to show that
all these requirements were observed. Cole of Tenn. 1884
(Milliken and Vertrees), § 1300. Zouisville & lNashville Railroad v. Parker,12 Heiskell, 49.
Another thing must be noted in this connection, and that is,
the provision that some person shall always be upon the lookout ahead, means that as soon as the person or animal on the
track could be seen by the lookout, it must be seen. It is not
sufficient for the company to show that as soon as it was seen
everything possible was done to stop the train, but the company must also show that the person or animal was seen as
,soon as it could have been seen by the lookout doing his duty
at his post. Railroad v. White, 5 Lea, 540; Iouisville &
Nashville Railroady.Connor, 9 Heiskell, 19, 26.
An examination of the evidence. shows that these precautions were not observed.

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

III. If there is any evidence tending to prove the issue on
either side, it is .error to withdraw the case from the jury.
Hickmam v. Jones, 9 Wall. 197; .Manchesterv. Ericsson, 105

U. S. 347; United States v. Tillotson, 12 Wheat. 180. Directions to find for a par'y can only be given where there is no
conflicting evidence. Klein v. Russell, 19 Wall. 433; 1Ifoulor
v. Ins. Co., 101 U. S. 708. A case should not be withdrawn
from a jury unless facts are undisputed or testimony so conclusive that a verdict in conflict with it would be set aside.
Conn,. Ins. Co. v. Zathrop, 111 U. S. 612; Phnix 17s. Co. v.
Doster, 106 U. S. 30. It is true the rule is that when the evidence. given at the trial, with all the inferenceswhich the jury
could justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict, so that such verdict, if returned, musst be set aside, the
court may. direct a verdict for the defendant. Schofield v.
Chicago & St. Paul Raiway, 114 U. S. 619.
this "case.

But that is not

MRi. JusTICE HAE LAx, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court..

The first question presented by the assignments of error
relates to the refusal by the court below to remand the action'
to the state court. If the defendant is a, corporation of Kentucky, then its right to*have the. case removed from the state
court cannot be denied.
Whether a corporation created by the laws of one state is
also a corporation of another state within whose limits it is
permitted, under legislative sanction, to exert its corporate
powers, is often difficult to determine. This is apparent from
the former decisions of this court. To some of those decisions
i' will be well to refer, before entering upon the examination
of the particular statutes of Tennessee, wl.ieh, i4 is claimed,
created the defendant a corporation of that state.
In Ohio & ffississil)pi Railroad Co. v. Theeler, 1 Black,
286, 293, 297, it was a question whether that company was
not a corporation both of Indiana and Ohio. The company,
chtiming .in its declaration to be "a corporation created by the
VOL CXXII--2

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of the states of Indiana and Ohio, and having its principal place of business in Cincinnati, in the state of Ohio, a
citizen of the state of Ohio," su d Wheeler, a citizen of Indian4a, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district
of Indiana. It was incorporated by an act of the legislature
of Indiana. Subsequently the legislature of Ohio passed an
act reciting the incorporation of the company in Indiana, and
declared that "the corporate powers granted to said company
by the act of Indiana, incorporating the same, be recognized."
At a later date the legislature of Ohio passed an act authorizing-the extension of the company's road to Cincinnati,,declaring that the intention of the previous act "was to recognize,
affirm, and adopt the charter of the said Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad Company, as enacted by the legislature of the state
of Indiana."
In the opinion of the court it is said "that a corporation by
the name and style of the plaintiff appears to have been chartered by the states of Indiana and Ohio," and, therefore, that
the company was "a distinct and separate corporate" body in
Indiana from the corporate body of the same name in Ohio."
. In Railroad Co. v. Hctrri6, 12 Wall. 65, 83, it appeared
that the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company was incorporated by the state of Maryland for the purpose of securing
the construction of a railroad from Baltimore to some suitable
point on the Ohio River. . Subsequently, Virginia, by a statute, which set out at large the Maryland act, declared that
"the same rights and privileges shall be and are hereby
granted to the aforesaid company, in the territory of Virginia,
as are granted to it within the territory of Maryland" - the
company to be subject to the same pains, penalties, and obligations as were imposed by the Maryland act, and the same
rights, privileges and immunities being secured to Virginia
and her citizens, except as to lateral roads. Congress, at a
later date, passed an act authorizing the company to extend
its road into the District of Columbia, and to exercise "the
same powers, rights and privileges, and shall be subject to the
same restrictions in the construction and extension of said
lateral road into and within the said District, as they way ex-

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

ercise or be subject to under or by virtue of the said act of
incorporation in the construction and extension of any railroad in the state of Marylafid," &c. Touching the question
whether the legislation of Virginia and of Congress created a
new corporation, this court said: "In both, the original Maryland act-of incorporation is referred to, but neither expressly
or by implication create a new corporation. The company
was chartered to construct a road in Virginia as well as in
iaryland. The latter could not be done without the consent
of Virginia. That consent was given upon the terms which she
The permission was
thought necessary to prescribe. ....
broad and comprehensive in its scope, but it was a license and
nothing more. It was given to the Maryland corporation as
such, and that body was the same in all its elements and in its
identity afterwards as before. Referring tQ Ohio and .fississippi Railroad Co. v. Wheeler, the court said that, "as the
case appears in the report, we think the judgment of the court
was correotly given. It was the case of an Indiana railroad
company, licensed by Ohio, suing a citizen of Indiana in the
Federal court of that state."
In Railroad Co. v. Vance, 96 U. S. 450, 457, an act of the
Illinois legislature, referring to a lease made by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, an Indiana corporation,
of a certain railroad in Illinois, belonging to the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company, an Illinois corporation, and declaring that "the said lessees, their associates, successors, and assigns, shall b6 a railroad corporation in this
state, under the style of the Indianapolis and St. Louis" Railroad Company, and shall possess the same or as large powers
as are possessed by said lessor corporation, and such other
powers as are usual to railroad corporations," was held not to
be a mere license to an Indiana corporation to exert its corporate powers, and enjoy its corporate rights and privileges, in
Illinois, but to create the lessees, their associates, successors,
and assigns, a distinct corporate body in the latter state. The
court said: "It does more: it gives the style by which that
corporation shall be known. Still further, it does not authorize the complainant corporation to exercise in Illinois the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

corporate powers granted by the laws of Indiana, but confers,
by affirmative language, upon the corporation, which it
declares shall be a railroad corporation in Illinois, 'the same
or as large powers as are possessed' by an Illinois corporation,
the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company, and,
in ad.dition, such other powers as are usual to railroad corporations. The Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, as
lessee of the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company, was thus created, by apt words, a corporation in Illinois.
The fact that it bears the same name as that given to the company incorporated by Indiana cannot change the fact that it
is a distinct corporation, having a separate existence derived
from the legislature of another state."
In .Memphis & Charlestqnm 1ailroad Co. v. -Alabanza, 107
U. S. 581, 58-, the question was as to the citizenship of the
corporation against which that suit was brought by the state
of Alabama. The state of Tennessee, in 1846, created a corporation by the name of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company. The legislature of Alabama subsequently
passed an act entitled "An act to incorporate the Memphis
and Charleston Railroad Company." That act referred to the
act of the Tennessee legislature, and granted to said company
a right of way through Alabama, to construct its road between
certain points named, declaring that it should have all the
rights and privileges granted to it by the said act of incorpoiation, subject to the restrictions therein imposed. The statute contained other provisions of the same general nature,
from all of which, however, it was not, as this court observed,
made quite clear, whether the company referred to in the body
of the act was the one which the act in its title purported to
incorporate, or the one created by the Tennessee act and referred to in the preamble of the Alabama act. But there were
other sections expressly referring to the company "hereby incorporated," that is, incorporated by the, Alabama act. The
whole of the latter act, taken together, the court said, mairfests the understanding and intention of the legislature of
Alabama that the corporation, which was thereby granted a
right of way to construct through that state a railroad, "was

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

and should be in law a corporation of the state of Alabama,
although having one and the same organization with the corporation of the same name previously established by the legislature of Tennessee."
In the recent case of Pennsylvania Comany v. t. Louis,
-Altonc
& Terre Haute Railroad Company, 118 U. S. 290,
295, 296, the general question now before us received careful
consideration. It was there said: "It does not seem to admit
of question that a corporation of one state, owning property
and doing business in another state, by permission of the latter, does not thereby become a citizen of this state also. And
so a corporation of Illinois, authorized by its laws to build a
railroad across the state from the :Mississippi River to its eastern boundary, may, by permission of the state of Indiana, extend its road a few miles within the limits of the latter, or,
indeed, through the entire state, and may use and operate the
line as one road by the permission of the state, without thereby becoming a corporation or a citizen of the state of Indiana.
Nor does it seem to us that an act of the legislature conferring
upon this corporation of Illinois, by its Illinois corporate nam,,
such powers to enable it to use and control that part of the
road within the state of Indiana, as have been coiiferred on it
by the state which created it, constitutes it a corporation of
Indiana. It may not be easy in all such cases to distinguish
between the purpose to create a new corporation, which shall
owe its existence to the law or statute under consideration,
and the intent to enable the corporation already in existence,
under laws of another state, to exercise its functions in the
state where it is so received. To make such a company a corporation of another state, the language used must imply creation, or adoption in such form as to confer the power usually
exercised over corporations by the state, or by the legislature,
and such allegiance as a state corporation owes to its creator.
The mere grant of privileges or powers to it as an existing
corporation, without more, does not do this, and does not
make it a citizen of the state conferring such powers."
So that the essential inqjuiry here must be, whether, within
the doctrine'established in the cases we have cited, the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of Tennessee, by her legislation, granted a mere license to the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company to exercise within her limits all or some of the powers conferred upon it by
the state of Kentucky, or established a new corporation over
which she could exert such direct control and authority as is
usually exerted by a state over corporations of her own creation.

The solution of this question depends upon the intent of the
legislature of Tennessee, as gathered from the words used in
the statutes now to be examined.
We lay out of view the acts of the General Assembly of
Tennessee, approved February 1, 1850, incorporating a company by the name of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, and the act of February 9, 1850, entitled "An act
to incorporate the Nashville and Louisville Railroad Company." It appears in evidence that no organization was effected under those acts, and we do not understand the counsel for
the plaintiff to rely upon either of them as showing that the
present defendant is a corporation of Tennessee.
By an act of the General Assembly of :Kentucky, approved
March 5, 1850, a corporation was created by the name of the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, with power to
construct a railroad "from the City of Louisville to the Tennessee line, in the direction of Nashville; " and by an act of
the same body, approved March 20, 1851, authority was given
to connect said road "with any railroad extending to Nashville, on such terms and conditions as the two companies may,
from time to time, agree on, for the through transportation
and travel of freight and passengers."
On the 4th of December, 1851, the General Assembly of
Tennessee passed an act, the title of which is "An act to incorJporate the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company." As
the question of citizenship depends mainly upon the construction of that act, it is given in full, as follows:
"SEcTIoN 1. Be it enacted by tte General Assemb1y..f the
state of Tennessee, That the right of way for the construction
of a railroad from the line between the states of Kentucky
and Tennessee, so as to connect the cities of Louisville and

G00DLE'T v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

Nashville by railroad communication, be, and is hereby,
granted to the Louisville and Nashville Railroad .Company,
incorporated by the legislature of Kentucky, with all the
rights, powers, and privileges, and subject to all the restrictions and liabilities set forth and prescribed in a charter
granted to said company by the legislature of Kentucky, and
approved Mharch the 5th, 1850, and the amendments thereto,
passed by said legislature, and approved March the 20th, 1851,
for the term of nine hundred and ninety-nine years, except as
further provided in this act.
"SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, That said company shall
construct said railroad from the boundary line between said
state6, beginning at said line where it shall be intersected by
that part of said railroad which is to be within the state of
Kentucky, to (a point within or convenient to) the city of
Nashville: .Provided,That in the construction of said railroad
said company shall commence at each end of the line at the
same time, and continue the work from each end until said
railroad is completed: Provided further, That said company
shall not be compelled to use the calital. stock subscribed and
paid in by the citizens, .companies, corporations, or counties in
the state of Kentucky in the construction of that part of said
railroad lying in the state of Tennessee until the part thereof
lying in Kentucky is completed.
"SEc. 3. Be it further enacted, That so soon as said company shall have completed five miles of said railroad from
N ashville, they may commence and prosecute their business,
as provided in the twenty-first section of said charter; that
the tariff of charges for transportation of passengers and for
goods, wares, merchandise, and other articles and commodities, shall be equal on all parts of said railroad- in proportion
to distance, and that equal facilities for the transportation of
the same in either direction shall be furnished.
"SEC. 4. Be itfurthr enacted, That the stockholders in the
state of Tennessee shall be entitled to be represented in said
company by directors residing in Tennessee in proportion, to
their stock, to be chosen by the stockholders of: the company
in the manner and at the time the other directors are chosen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.
"SEC. 5. Be itfurlierenacted, That nothing in this act, or
in said charter or amendments thereto, shall be so construed as
to prohibit the legislature of Tennessee from passing any law
authorizing the construction of railroads within this state
paralle! to, crossing, or to unite with said railroad from Louisville to Nashville, and the-state of Tennessee reserve the right
so to do.
"SEC. 6. Be it further enacted, That the twentieth section
of said charter and the fourth section of the amendments
thereto shall be void and of no force or effect within this
state.
"SEc. T. And be it further enacted,That the twenty-third,
twenty-fourth, twenty-fifth, and twenty-ninth sections of the
act of the 11th December, 1845, incorporating the Nashville
and Chattanooga Railroad Company, be, and are hereby, made
a part of the said charter of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad company, to be in force within this state, and that this
-bill shall take effect from and after its passage: Provided,
That the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall grant to the state
of Tennessee, or to such companies as the General Assembly
may charter, the right of vay from Nashville to intersect with
the Lexington and Danville Railroad at Danville, Harrodsburg, or such other point on that road as the company may
designate, provided it does not interfere with any vested rights
of the citizens of Kentucky, with the like powers" and privileges granted to this company.
"SEC. 8. Be itfurther enacted,That the company shall bring
said railway to the city o2 Nashville, or South Nashville, and
locate their depot convenient to'the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad, so as to form the connection."
Some stress is laid upon the title of that act, as indicating a
purpose to create a corporation, and not simply to recognize
an existing one of another state, and invest it with authority
to exert its functions within the state of Tennessee. While
the title of a statute should not be entirely ignored in determining the legislative intent, it cannot be used "to extend or
restrain any positive provisions contained in the body of the
act," and is of little weight even when the meaning of such

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

provisions is doubtful. "Hadden v. Collector, 5 Wall. 107, 110.
Looking, then, at the body of the Tennessee act of December
4, 1851, we find no language clearly evincing a purpose to
create a new corporation, or to adopt one of another state, in
such form as to establish the same relations, in law, between
the latter corporation and the state of Tennessee, as would
exist in the case of one created by that state. The act grants
to a named company "incorporated by the legislature of
Kentucky" a right of way, withhi designated limits, for the
construction of a railroad, with all the rights, powers, and
privileges, and subject to all the restrictions and liabilities
prescribed in its original and amended charter, "except as
further provided in this act." The remaining sections of the
act are, in form, additions and alterations of the charter of
the Kentucky corporation; but, in effect, they only prescribe
the terms and conditions upon which that corporation was
given a right of way and permitted to construct a railroad
and exercise its powers in Tennessee.
If the legislature of the latter state intended to do anything
more than grant a license to a corporation of another state
to construct a railroad and exert its corporate functions
within her limits; if it was intended to bring into existence a
corporation subject to the paramount authority of Tennessee
as were other corporations created by her laws; certain sections of the, act incorporating the Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad Company would not have been made a part of the
charter of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company,
to be in force simply "in this [that] state;" but would have
been incorporated into the company's charter, to be in force
wherever and whenever it exerted the powers granted to it.
And the same observation applies to the proviso in the 7th
section of the act of December 4, 1851, which requires that
Kentucky should grant to Tennessee, or to such companies
as the latter state might "charter," he right of way from
Nashville to intersect with a named road at certain points in
Kentucky, with the like powers and privileges granted by
Kentucky to the Louisville and Nashville BRZailroad Company.
Taking the whole of that act together, we are satisfied that

OCTOBER TERm,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

it was not within the,mind of the legislature of Tennessee to
create a new corporation, but only to give the assent of that
state to the exercise by the defendant, within her limits, and
subject to certain conditions, of some of the powers granted
to it by the state creating it.
This construction is not, if indeed it could be, affected by
the subsequent legislation of Tennessee. While the titles of
the acts of January 10, 1852, December 15, 1855, and March
20, 1858, give some slight support to the position taken by the
plaintiff, the acts themselves do not militate against the conclusions here expressed. In legal effect, they only impose
other terms and conditions than those prescribed in the original act, upon the exercise by the defendant, within Tennessee,
of the powers and privileges conferred by its charter, as
granted by Kentucky.
Upon the authority of the cases cited, and for the reasons
herein stated, we are of opinion that the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company is a corporation of Kentucky,
and not of Tennessee, and, consequently, that the action was
removable, upon its petition and bond, into the Circuit Court
of the United States.
It only remains to consider the assignments of error relating to the charge to the jury, and to the refusal of the court
to give certain instructions in behalf of the plaintiff. The bill
of exceptions states, that "on the trial of this cause the following testimony was submitted to the jury." Then follows
the evidence of numerbus witnesses for the respective sides,
given in narrative form, and the charge of the court. .The
court, among other things, charged the jury, that the plaintiff
did not himself exercise reasonable care and prudence, but was
guilty of negligence, so that had the people upon the train,
or the persons. controlled by him, been injured, they could
have recovered against his employer for his negligence.
"Under the facts proven in this case," the judge said, "were
you to give a vekdict against the defendant, I should feel
bound to set it aside and grant a new trial. In such a state
of the case, it is my duty to instruct you to find a verdict for
the defendant, and I accordingly do so, declining to give the

GOODLETT v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

instructions requested by plaintiff's counsel." Tho bill of
exceptions does not, in express words, state that it contains
all the evidence introduced at the trial.
Assuming, but without deciding, that the bill of exceptions
sufficiently shows that all the evidence is embodied in the
record, the question arises whether the court erred in withdrawing the case from the jury, and directing a verdict for
the company. In Phenix Insurance Comlany v. .Doster, 106
U. S. 30, 32, it was said that "where a cause fairly depends
upon the effect" or weight of testimony, it is one for the consideration and determination of the jury, under proper directions as to the principles of law involved;" and that a case
should never be withdrawn from them "unless the testimony
be of such a conclusive character as to compel the court, in
the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, to set aside a verdict returned in opposition to it." So, in Randall v. Baltimore
& Ohio Railroad Company, 109 U. S. 478, 482, it was declared to be the settled law of this court, "that when the
evidence given at the trial, with all inferences that the jury
could justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the plaintiff, so that such a verdict, if returned, must
be set aside, the court is not bound to submit the case to the
jury, but may direct a verdict for the defendant."
These authorities sustain the charge to the jury. The evidence makes a case of utter recklessness upon the part of the
deceased, who was a section boss of the defendant, charged
ivith the duty of keeping its road in repair between certain
points, so that trains could pass over it in safety. He was
guilty of the grossest negligence in running his hand-car into
the deep cut where he was injured, without having sent any
one ahead to watch for, and warn the passenger train, which
he knew was approaching, or would soon reach that point on
the road. -But for his negligence in that respect he Would not
have been injured.
It is said, however, that despite any negligence to be fairly
imputed to the deceased, the agents of the company, who
were in charge of the passenger train, might have avoided
injuring him had they exercised reasonable diligence to that

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

end. Tihis position is supposed by counsel to be justified by
§§ 1166, 1167, and 1168 of the Code of Tennessee, which provide:
"SEc. 1298 (1166). Every railroad company shall keep the
engineer, fireman, or some other person upon the locomotive,
altvays upon the lookout ahead; and when any person, animal,
or other obstruction' appears upon the road, the alarm whistle
shall be sounded, the brakes put down, and every possible
means employed to stop the train and prevent an accident.
"Sxd. 1299 (1167). Every railroad company that fails to
observe these precautions, or cause them to be observed by its
agents and servants, shall be responsible for all damages to
persons or property occasioned by or resulting from any accident or collision that may occur.
"SEc. 1300 (1168). No railroad company that observes, or
causes to be observed, these precautions, shall be responsible
for any damages done to person or property on its road. The
proof that it has observed said precautions shall be upon the
company." Code Tenn. 1884 (Milliken and Yertrees),-§§ 12981300.
Without considering the question whether those sections are
intended for the benefit of the general public only, not for the
servants of the company- especially one whose negligence
is sufficient to
caused or contributed to cause the accident -it
say that the court below correctly held that the requirements
of the Tennessee Code were complied with by the company,
so far at least.as the circumstances attending the injury of the
-deceased are concerned. A verdict based 'upon a different
view of the evidence should hat-e been set aside, upon motion
by the defendant.
The jury having been properly directed, in view of all the
evidence, to find a verdict for the company, it is unnecessary
to consider the exceptions taken to its refusal to grant. certain
instructions asked in behalf of the plaintiff. The judgment is

Affirmed.

