OCTOBER TER11,

1886.

Syllabus.

added; that they keep it attached from eight to twenty days,
until the beer is drawn off for the market; that, on an average,
they gain about two days by the use of the apparatus; and that
they avoid the running over of the foaming yeast through the
bung-hole.
We have confined our consideration of this case to the third
claim of the patent, as that is the one which distinctly embodies the invention of the patentees, and it has been infringed
by the defendants. -It will be time enough to consider the
other process claims, and the eighth claim, in cases involving
their infringement, where the third claim is not also infringed.
In the present case, it appears that the defendants have used
"th e process of preparing ana preserving beer foi the market,"
by "holding it under controllable pressure of carbonic acid
gas from the beginning of the kraeusen stage until such time
as it is transferred to kegs and bunged, substantially as described" in the specification of the patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with a direction to enter a decree
establishingthe validity of the third claim of the patent,
and awarding a peipetual injunction ald an account of
proit and damages, and to takesuchfurther proceedings
i7&the suit as may not be -inconsistentwith this opinion.

GANDY v. MARBLE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued April 29, May 2,1887.-

Decided May 27,1887.

On a bill in equity filed under § 4915 of the Revised Statutes, to obtain
an adjudication in favor of the granting of a patent, the plaintiff must
allege and prove that a delay of two years and more in prosecuting the
application after the last action therein of which notice was given to
him was unavoidable, or the application will be regarded as having been
abandoned, within the provision of § 4894.

GANDY v. MARBLE.
Statement of the Case.

THis was an appeal by the plaintiff in a suit in equity
brought in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
against the Secretary of the Interior and the Coamissioner of
Patents, from a decree of the general- term of that-court dismissing the bill. The suit was brought by Maurice Gandy
against H. 21. Teller, as Secretary of the Interior, and E. M.
Marble, as Commissioner of Patents. The bill was founded
upon § 4915 of the Revised Statutes, which provides as
follows: "Se e . 4915. Whenever a patent on application is
refused, either by the Commissioner of Patents or by the
Supreme Court of the District of C6lumbia upon appeal from
the Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy by bill in
equity; and the court having cognizance thereof, on notice to
adverse parties and other due proceedings had, may adjudge
that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a
patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or for any
part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear. And such
adjudication, if it be in favor of the right of the applicant,
shall authorize the Commissioner to issue such patent on the
applicant filing in the Patent Office a copy of the adjudication, and otherwise complying with the requirements of law.
In all cases, where there. is no opposing party, a copy of the
bill shall be -served on the Commissioner; and all the.expenses
of the proceeding shall be paid by the applicant, whether the
final decision is in his favor or not."
The facts of the case Were these: On the 1st of December,
1877, Gandy filed in the Patent Office an application for a
patent for "improvements in belts or bands for driving machinery." The application was rejected on the merits. After
due proceedings, an appeal was taken to the Commissioner of
Pate-its in person, who, on the 7th of April, 1879, affirmed the
decision rejecting the application. Gandy appealed to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, which, on a hearing, and on the 30th of Jannary, 1880, dismissed the petition
of Gandy, and directed that a copy of its decree be transmitted
to the Commissioner of Patents. The bill stated that 'the
ground of the action of the Patent Office and of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in rejecting the application
VOL. c--xu-2.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

was, that the invention was not patentable, having been anticipated in prior patents. The bill alleged that the application
was erroneously rejected, and prayed that the court would
hear and determine the right of the plaintiff to a patent for
what he claimed, or for such parts thereof as he might be justly
entitled to, and would decree accordingly.
I The bill was filed on the 3d of May, 1883. A subpcena was
issued upon it, and served upon the Secretary of the Interior
and the Commissioner of Patents, on the 5th of May, 1883.
On the 19th of October, 1883, the solicitor for the plaintiff
served on the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner
of Patents, in person, a notice that he would on the next day,
move the court for leave to enter their default in the case, and
thereupon to proceed with the cause ex 2ar to final hearing.
On the 20th of October, 1883, the court made an order setting
forth, that the process of the court and a copy of the bill had
been duly served upon the defendants, that they had not appeared or answered, and that, on proof of service of the above
named motion, no one appearing for the defendants, it was
ordered that the plaintiff have leave to enter the default of
the defendants and to prodeed with the cause ex -parte,and
that he have sixty days to take and put in his proofs. It also
specified the officers before whom proofs might be taken.
Documentary and oral proofs *ere put in, the former including a copy of tbe proceedings in the Patent Office, by which
it appeared that the date of the last proceeding ih the application was the making of the decree of January 30, 1880, by
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. No one
appeared for the defendants o. the taking of any of the proofs.
On the 14th of April, 1881, the Supreme Court, in special term,
no one appearing for the defendants, made an order that the
cause be heard in the first instance by the general term. On
the 30th of April, 1884, Benjamin Butterworth, having succeeded Mr. Marble as Commissioner of Patents, moved the
court, in general tern, to -dismiss the bill and set aside the
order entering the default of the defendants, and for leave to
make a defence in the cause, assigning as grounds for the
motion that the Secretary of the Interior was not a proper

GANDY v. MARBLE.
Argument for App.ellant.

party to the suit; that Mr. ]3utterworth had succeeded Mr.
Marble as Commissioner of Patents; and that the application
for the patent had been abandoned by reason of the failure to
prosecute the same within two years after the last action
thereon, of which notice was duly communicated to the applicant. The court in general term made an order allowing the
plaintiff to amend his bill, striking out the name of the Secretary of the Interior as a defendant and adding as a defendant
the successor in office of Mr. Marble. On the same day, the
court ingeneral term made a decree, on a hearing of counsel
for both,parties, dismissing the bill, with costs. From that
decree the plaintiff appealed to this court.
.A&. Amos Broadna for appellant.
not an appeal from the deThis is an original proceeding
cision of the Commissioner of Patents.
It was contended by the attorney for the Commissioner of
Patents in the court below, that under § 4894: of the Revised
Statutes, complainant's right to a patent was barred by failure
to file his bill within the time limited by that section. This
question was twice argued before the court below, once on
motion, and again at final hearing. That court was, however,
unanimously of opinion, that § 4894 referred only to applications pending before the Patent Office, and that it did not
limit the time when a bill in equity to obtain a patent might
be filed.
The statute in question is as follows: "SEc. 4894. All applications for patents.shall be completed and prepared for examination within two years after the filing of the application, and
in default thereof, or upon failure of the applicant to prosecute
the same within two years after any action therein, of whi6h
notice shall have been given to the applicant, they shall be
regarded as abandoned by the parties thereto, unless it be
shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Patents that
such delay was unavoidable."
The language of this section is explicit. It refers only to
applications which are subject to "e:tamination" by the Commissioner of Patents. The fact that the commissioner is the
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument-for Appellant.

only person who is authorized to investigate and determine
the question of abandonment under this section seems to be
conclusive on this point.
The decision of the Commissioner was affirmed by the District Supreme Court on January 30, 1880, and this bill was
filed on May 3, 1883. But this proceeding, while it must be
supplemental to the proceedings in the Patent Office, is nevertheless an original suit in equity to enforce an equitable right
.like any other suit in equity. See In re John J. Squire, 12
Off. Gazette, 1025 ;'Whiple v. .Afiner, 15 Fed. Rep. 117.
It is not seen upon what other ground it can be considered.
The statute is silent as to the time within which the bill must
be filed, and in the absence of any statutory bar, it becomes a
simple question as to whether the complainant intended to
abandon his application, and there being no evidence of such
intention, it becomes a question whether upon a delay of three
years, under the circumstances, in filing the bill, the court will
presume abandonment against the inventor. But can the
presumption of abandonment arise in this case ? The inventor
obtained a patent for his invention in England, in,May, 1877.
On December 1, 1877, he filed this application - three years
before his invention was put in public use in this co.untry,
which use did not begin until November, 1880.
Now under § 4887 of the Revised Statutes, it is provided.
that :
"SEC. 4887. No person shall be debarred from receiving a
patent for his invention or discovery, nor shall any patent be
declared invalid, by reason of its having been first pgented
or caused to be patented in a foreign country, unless the same
has been introduced into public use in the United States for
more than two years prior to the application. But every
patent granted for an invention which has been previously
patented in a foreign country, shall be so limited as to expire
at the same thne with the foreign patent, or, if there be more
than one, at the same time with the one ha ving the shortest
term, and in no case shall it be in force mo -e than seventeen
years."
The invention in this case was first patented in England.

GANDY v. MARBLE.
Argumeir for Appellant.

The application was filed here before the invention was put
in public use at all, and, therefore, all the requirements of the
law having been complied with, it is submitted that no 'esumption of abandonment can arise in view of the provision
of the statute above quoted and of the facts in this case.
It will be observed that the statutes do not-require a bill to
obtain a patent to be filed before the invention hag been in
public use two years. No such limitation could have been
contemplated, because the bill cannot be filed until the remedy
by appeal in the Patent Office and the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia has been exhausted, and the application
may-be filed any time before the invention has been in public
use or on sale for two years. .An application may be filed
wlen the, nvention has been in public use twenty-three months.
In such a case, if the application were finally rejected, it would
be impossible to file such a bill before the invention had been
in public use two years. It would probably be in public use
from three to five years before remedy by bill in equity could
possibly be invoked.
The question of abandonment raised on an application for a
reissue to broaden claims is entirely different from any question presented in this case. In a case of reissue the applicant
has accepted a patent of limited scope when he had a right to
obtain a broader one. Through inadvertence, accident or
mistake on his own part, he has omitted to properly claim his
invention, and the patent is a formal declaration to the public
that what is described and not claimed is either old or is dedicated to its use. Under such circumstances it is held that the
inventor will-not be permitted to withdraw what he has formally and notoriously dedicated by his own negligence to
public use, except under specially favorable circumstances.
.Miller v. Bqass Co., 104 U. S. 350; [ah.n v. liwood, 112 U.
S. 354. Both of these cases clearly distinguish between a reissue to broaden claims and a reissue to narrow claims or
correct errors of description, and hold that while lapse of time
before applying for reissue is of prime importance in the
former case, it is of small consequence in the latter. The difference between the two rests in the fact that when reissued

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion-of the Court.

to narrow claims, thd original patent contains no disclaimer,
express or implied. It will be observed that in both cases the
reissued patent takes from the public something it previously
enjoyed, because even where the claims are limited by reissue
the inventor surrenders a too broad, but invalidpatent; and
receives a narrower, but valid patent. "
Although the case before the court, as far as the question of
abandonment is concerned, resembles in its essential features
a reissue to narrow claims more than it does a reissue to
broaden claims, yet it differs from both, and the complainant
here has equities superior to those of any applicant for a reissue.
Through the mistakes of the Patent Office, the complainant
has already been subjected to great hardship by being denied
protection for his invention for many years, and even if he
obtains a patent now, in view of his English patent, it will be
of limited duration. He has complied with all the provisions
of the law. His invention has failed to obtain protection
through no inadvertence, accident or mistake'on his part. He
has not accepted a patent With too narrow claims. The public has had no formal notice that the invention is old or is
dedicated to its use. He does not ask permission' to' correct
his own mistakes, as every applicant for a reissue does,.
whether he .seeks to limit or' expand his claims, but he asks.
this court to correct the errors of the Patent Office, and to
give' him protection, which, has been unjustly denied, for his
invention.
In the absence of 'any statutory limitation as to the tine in
which a person may commence an action to sustain or enforce
an equitable right, it would seam that abandonment, which is
primarily and essentially a fact to be established by proof,
could not be presumed in the present case.

.21b'. Assis9tan~t Attorney General Alfamry for appellee.Mi. JUsTIcE JBrArcnronD, after stating the case as above reported, delivered. the opinion of the court.

'We are of opinion that this decree must be affirmed. It is
provided by § 4894 of' the Revised Statutes as follows: "SEC.

GANDY v. MARBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

4894. All applications for patents shall be completed and prepared for examination within two years after the filing of the
application, and in default thereof, or upon failure of the applicant to prosecute the same within two years after any action
therein, of which notide shall have been given to the applicant, they shall be regarded as abandoned by the parties thereto, unless it be shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
of Patents that such delay was unavoidable." The applicant
failed to prosecute his application within two years after the
last action therein, of which notice was given to the applicant.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
was made on the 30th of January, 1880, and this bill was not
filed until the 3d of May, 1883. -io excuse for the lacheg and
delay is set up in the bill and none is shown in the proofs, -nor
is it alleged in the bill that the delay was unavoidable. Although, as was said by this court in Butterwortk v. Hoe, 112
U. S. 50, 61, (citing WhTjpple v. Afiner, 15 Fed. Rep. 117; E
parte SSvire, 3 Ban. & Ard. 133; and Butler v. Shazw, 21
Fed. Rep. 321,) the proceeding by bill in equity, under § 4915,on the refusal to grant an application for a patent, intends a
suit according to the ordinary course of equity practice and
procedure, and is not a technical appeal from the Patent Office,
nor confined to the case as made in the record of that office,
but is prepared and heard upon all competent evidence adduced
and upon the whole merits, yet the proceeding is, in fact and
necessarily, a part of the application for the patent. Section
4915 declares that the judgment of the court, if in favor
of the right of the applicant, is to be a judgmnt that
the applicant "is entitled, according to law, to receive
a patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or
for any part thereof, as the facts in the case may appdar;"
and that, if the adjudication be in favor of the right of the
applicant, it shall authorize the Commissioner to issue the
patent, on the filing in the Patent Office by the applicant of'a
copy of the adjudication and on his "otherwise complying
with the requirements of law." One requirement of law is,
by § 4894, that the application shall be regarded as abandoned
if the applicant fails to prosecute the same-within two years

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

after any action therein of which notice shall have been given
to-him, "unless it be shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Pateiits that such delay was unavoidable." All that
the court which takes cognizance of the bill in equity, under
§ 4915, is authorized to do is to adjudge whether or not "the
applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a patent," and,
after an adjudication in his favor to that effect, the Commissioner is not authorized to issue a patent unless the applicant
otherwise complies with the requirements of law. In the
present case, there would be no compliance with the requirements of law, in view of the delay for more than two years,

unless it be shown to the satisfaction of the cort that the
delay was unavoidable. The jurisdiction of the application
being transferred, pro tanto, to the court, by virtue of the bill
in, equity, it cannot adjudge that the applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a patent, unless he shows to the satisfaction of the court that the delay was unavoidable, under
an allegation to that effect in the bill. The presumption of
abandonment, under § 4894, unless it is shown that the delay
in prosecuting the application for two years and more after
the last prior action, of which notice was given to the. applicant, was unavoidable, exists as fully in regard'to that branch
of the application involved in the remedy by bill in.
equity as in
regard to any other part of the application, whether so much
of it as is strictly within the Patent Office, or so much of it as
consists of an appeal to the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia under § 4911. The decision of the court on a bill in
equity becomes, equally with the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia on a direct appeal under
§ 49f1, the decision of the Patent Office, and is to govern the
action of the Commissioner. It is, therefore, clearly a branch
of the application for the patent, and to be governed by the
rule as to laches and delay declared by § 4894 to be attendant
upon the application.
Decree affirmed.

