OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

judgments until after such consent order was made, cannot be
heard to object to the manner in which the property was
originally seized and brought into court, and made subject to
its orders. The attaching creditors, the debtors, and the
assignee of the debtors, having all approved what was done,
subsequent judgment creditors- the consent order of sale not
being impeached on the ground of fraud -acquired no such
rights in the propertyas entitled them to question the disposition made of it or of the proceeds of sale.
The judgment isafirmed.

PHILADELPHIA AND SOUTHERN STEAMSHIP
COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO TRE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Arguid April 7, 187. -Deeided

May 27, 1857.

A state tax upon the gross receipts of a steamship company incorporated
under its laws, which are derived from the transportation of persons and
property by sea, between different states, and to and from foreign countries, is a regulation of interstate and foreign commerce, in conflict with
the exclusive powers of Congress under the Constitution.
State Tax on Railway GrossReceipts, 15 Wall. 284,. considered and questioned.

THE question in this case was, whether a state can constitutionally impose upon a steamship company, incorporated under
its laws, a tax upon the gross receipts of such company derived from the transportation of persons and property by sea,
between different states, and to and from foreign countries.
]By an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, passed March
20, 1877, it was, amongst other things, enacted as follows; to
wit:
"That every railroad company, canal company, steamboat
company, slack-water navigation company, transportation company, street passenger railway company, and every other company now or hereafter incorporated .by or under any law of
this commonwealth, or now or hereafter incorporated by any

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

327

-Statement of the Case.
other state, and doing business in this commonwealth, and owning, operating, or leasing to or from anbther corporation or company any railroad, canal, slack-water navigation, or street passenger railway, or other device for the transportation of freight
or passengers, or in any way engaged in the business of transporting freight or passengers, and every telegraph company incorporated under the laws of this or any other state, and doing
business in this commonwealth, and every express comrany, and
any palace-car and sleeping-car company, incorporated or unincorporated, doing business in this commonwealth, shall pay to
the state treasurer, for the use of the commonwealth, a tax of
eight tenths of one per centum upon the gross receipts of said
company for tolls and transportation, telegraph business, or
express business."
A simil&r act was passed by the same legislature on the 7th
of June, 1879.
By the terms of these acts, returns of the gross receipts are
required to be made every six months to the Aiiditor General,
upon which the tax is assessed by him and charged against the
company.
Under aid by virt- of these acts, the Auditor General of
the state, in October, £882, charge I the appellant, The Philadelphia and Southern Mail Steamship .Company, taxes upon its
-gross receipts for the Years 1817, 1878, 1879, 1880, and 1881,
all of which receipts were derived from freight and passage
money between the ports bf Philadelphia and Savannah, and
in foreign trade from New Orleans, and a small amount for
charter parties in the like trade. The tax thus' charged against
the company for the five years in question amouited to about
86500, and, with accumulated interest and penalties, to over
$9000. After serving the account upon thd company, an
action was brought for its recovery in the Common Pleas of
Dauphin County, at Harrisburg. The defendant pleaded that
it was a steamship company, "operating sea-going steamships
engaged in the business of ocean transportation between dif"ferent states of the United States and between the United
States and foreign countries, and that all the said steamships
of the said defendant were duly enrolled or registered under

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the laws of the United States for the coasting or foreig. trade
of the United States, and that the gross receipts so returned to
the Auditor General, upon which a tax had been levied by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, were received by defendants
for freight and passengers carried in the said steamships on
the ocean and on the navigable waters of the United States,
between the state of Pennsylvania and other states of the
United States, and between the states of the United States
and foreign countries, and for the charter and hire of the said
steamships to other parties in such trade and business, and that
no part of the said gross receipts was received for fhe transportation of freight and passengers between places .within the
state of Pennsylvania, or for the hire and use of the said steamships within the state of Pennsylvania."
On the trial of the cause the parties enter6d into an agreement as to the facts, showing the gross receipts for each year,
in each branch of the company's trade-; which facts supported
the allegations of the plea. A trial by jury -was dispensed
with, and the court gave judgment for the commonwealth for
the principal of the tax and interest from the time of commencing suit. Exceptions were taken on the ground that the
judgment was in conflict with the clause of the Constitution of
the United States giving to Congress the power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several states.
The judgment being removed by writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, was affirmed by that court; and its
judgment was brought before this court for review by writ of
error.
fr. .Morton.P. Henry for plaintiff in error.
-r. W iS. Rirkvatrick,Attorney General of Pehnsylvania,
for defendant in error. -2r.John F. Sanderson, Deputy Attorney General of the State, was with him on the brief.
The relation of the corporation to the state certainly affects
the question at issue. If a domestic corporation, it is the creature of the state, a resident of the same, and deriving its privileges from such state. A foreign corporation deriving its

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

329

Argument for Defendant in Err.

franchises from extra-territorial authority is not subject to
taxation thereon, and is only taxable as to its property whose
eitus is within the limits of the taxing state. The tax in question is sustainable upon the assumption that it is a tax upon
the franchises of the corporation, such corporation being the
creature of the taxing power, having its principal place of
business within the limits of the state creating it, and its franchises being a valuable interest, property or commodity subject
to taxation. PortlandBank v. Apthorp, 12 Mass. 259,; Commonwealth v. Peoples' Five Per Cent Bank, 5 Alien, 431;.
Savings Bank v. Coit, 6 Wall. 606; Provident Instit tion v.
.Massachusetts,6 Wall. 623.
The right of a corporation to exist and exercise the powers
vested in it by its charter is called its franchise. Burroughs on
Taxftion, p. 161, § 85, in Te Delaware Railroad Tax Case;
18 Wall. 206, it was decided that a tax may be imposed upon
a corporation itself, measured by an arbitrary rule. It was
there held that a tax may be imppsed by a sfate upon a corporation as an entity existing under its laws, as well as upon
the capital stock of the corporation or its separate corporate
property. And the manner in which its value is assessed, and
the rule of taxation, however arbitrary or capricious, are mere
matteis of legislative discretion: that a tax upon a corporation
may be graduated upon income received, as well as the value
of the franchises granted or the property possessed. And that
the exercise of the authority which every state possesses to tax
its corporations and their property and their franchises, and to
graduate the tax upon the corporations according to their business or income or the value of their property, when this is not
dtone by discriminating against rights held in other states, and
the tax is not on imports or tonnage, or transportation to
other states, cannot be regarded as conflicting with any constitutional power of Congress. The fact that the corporation,
plaintiff in error, uses vessels and navigates the natural highways of the country, makes it no less liable to a corporation
tax than if it were a railroad company, nor does it affect our
position, that the taxation may indirectly or ultimately affect
the commerce carried on, or" the instrument used therein.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Cooley on Taxation, 61; Howell v. ifafryland, 3 Gill, 14;
Sorgan v. Parham, 16 Wall. 476; Tranlortation Co. v.
fieeling, 99 U. S. 273.
The steamship company in the present case is a corporation
of Pennsylvania, receiving from that state its corporate existence and franchises, and in contemplation of law it is a citizen
and inhabitant of that state. Its franchises, as we have already shown, are property subject to taxation. The employment of its vessels in trade, along the coast and with foreign
ports, does not take away the liability of the franchises of the
corporation to be taxed where that property is regarded as
situated any more than the employment of its vessels outside
of the limits of the state would deprive that state of the power
to tax them as another species of personal property of the
same owner. The corporation owns vessels and it owns- its
franchises as a corporation. These are two kinds of personal
.property, and each is taxed as such without regard to the fact
that it is involved in and devoted- to the pursuit of interstate and foreign commerce. Indeed, the corporation may be
taxed as such in consideration of its receiving its corporate
existence and privileges, and as possessing therein an interest,
or item of property, and there would be even a less direct
interference with its operations in commerce than in the taxation of its vessels.
The mistake of the opposing counsel is that he fails to
observe the distinction between a franchise or privilege to sail
a ship or engage in commerce by the employment of any of
its usual instrumentalities, and the franchise or liberty to sail
ships or engage in commerce as a corporate body.
The right to navigate the seas is a natural right, just as is
the right to travel upon land in carriages, stages, or by foot,
and to carry packages and merchandise for hire. ' Both axe
subject to regulation. In the first case the Federal government exercises the right to regulate for the purpose of con,serving and controlling this right, as also it has receitly done,
to some extent, in the case of railroad carriage in the ena(tmeut of the interstate commerce bill.
The -power of the. state- to tax in the one case is no more
'taken awvy than it %sin the other.

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

331

Argument for Defendant in Error.

We fail to see the difference between the case of vessels plying upon the navigable waters of the United States and a railroad company operating over an artificial highway for the
purposes of the present argument. If there is, and steamship
companies are exempt for that reason from taxation upon their
frahchises, then an express company, or messenger company,
or stage coach company would be exempt for the same reason
if their business embraced interstate traffic; for they, as in
the case of vessel owners, use the natural or artificial highways
of the country already at hand, and which all may use. The
use of a public road or a river by travellers engaged-in business, or in pursuit of recreation, is in all essential respects thp
same. The mere accident that one is solid and the other
liquid, does not affect the similarity of conditions in respect to
the..question now before us.
The case of the State Tax on Railway Gross Reeeipts, 15
Wall. 28-1, clearly controls and rules the present case. The
fact that it was a railroad company is only an incidental and
non-essential difference, as will readily be seen by a mere reading of the case. It was there held that the tax in question
being under a statute in all material respects identical with the
present one, and intended to embrace all transportation companies, was a tax upon the corporation, measured by the fruits
of its business, as ascertained after they were mingled with its
property in the possession of tha company, and at intervals of
six months.
It is better to quote from the opinion than to attempt to
give its substance in order to develop the true ground upon
which it was based.
This court there said, with reference to the question as to
whether the tax in controversy was an invasion upon the Federal power to regulate commerce, "The answer which must be
given to it depends upon the prior question whether a tax
upon gross receipfs of a transportation company is a tax
upon commerce so far as that commerce consists in moving
goods or passengers across state lines. No doubt every- tax
upon personal property or upon occupations, business or franchises, affects, more or less, the subjects and the operations of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

commerce. Yet it is not everything that affects commerce
that amounts to .aregulation of it, within the meaning of the
Constitution. We think it may safely be asserted that the
states hive authority to tax the estate, real and personal, of
all their, corporations, including carrying companies, precisely
as they may tax similar property ivhen belonging to natural
persons, and to the same extent. We think, also, that such
taxation may be laid upon a valuation, or may be an, excise,
and that in exacting an excise tax from their corporations the
states are not obliged to impose a fixed sum upon the franchises, -or upon the value of them, but they may demand a
graduated contribution, proportioned either to the value of
the privilege granted, or to the extent of their exercise, or to
the results of such exercise. No mode of effecting this, and no
forms of epressVn which have not a meaning beyond this,
can be regarded as violating the Constitution." Then, after
adverting to the distinction between tax -on freight, or the
price of transportation, and tax upon gross receipts, ascertained
at semiannual periods, after they have come into the possession of the company, and showing that such tarin the latter
is not upon commerce, bt upon a subject which has lost its
distinctive character as freight and become mingled with the
property of the corporation,-the court thereby shows that it is
practically upon the fruits of the business, and not upon the
business itself. It is not necessary to determine whether the
court meant to place this part of its opinion upon the idea of
its being a property tax, or as an argument to show that the
basis of the taxation was analogous to such tax, and that such
basis was withdrawn from the conditions of a tax upon freight.
The court finally goes on to say, however: "It is not to be
questioned, however, that the states may tax the franchises of
companies created by them, and that the tax may be proportibned either to the value of a franchise granted or to the extent of its exercise; nor is it deniable that gross receipts may be
a measure of proximate value, or if not, at least of the extent
of the enjoyment. If the tax be, in fact, laid upon the companies adopting such a measure, it imposes no greater burden upon
any freight or business from which the receipts came than woild

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

333

. Arg-pment for Defendant in Error.

be an equal tax laid upon a direct valuation of the franchise.
In both cases the necessity of higher charges to meet the exaction is the same."
Commerce over the railroads of the country is just as much
commerce within the meaning of the Constitution as commerce
over the water ways. The question to be determined is not
whether commerce is affected, but whether it is controlled or
operated upon directly by the taxing power. The character
of the highway cannot determine this qhestion, nor can it decarried on by a boat or a car.
pend upon whether the traffic is,
If the taxation is upon the tonnage or freights or fares, it is
an interference with the commercial power. If it be taxation
upon a valuation of the fruits of the business after they have
become mingled with its property, it is not obnoxious to the
Federal prohibition.
In the present case the greater part of the trade was between the cities of Philadelphia and Savannah. Now, suppose
the same trade, involving precisely the same merchandise, had
been carried on by means of railway.cars between the same
points, it would unquestionably ha~e been within the ruling of
the Railway Gross Receipts Case. Surely it cannot be successfully contended that because it was carried in a ship instead of
a railway car a different principlewill be applied, and that forthat reason alone it is not governed by the lust cited case.
The inconsequential character of such an argument will more
forcibly appear when if is remembered that the ship itself may
be taxed as personal property.
The case of Railroad Company v. -Maryland,21 Wall. 456,
does not justify the use made of it by the other side.
It must be borne in mind that in that case the right claimed
by the state was to take and receive froni the company, which
was conceded as having been largely devoted to interstate
travel, one-fifth of the total amount received for the transportation of passengers under a stipulation in its charter received from the state of Maryland, and which was a condition
of its corporate existence. For the privilege of being endowed
with the right of eminent domain and the power to construct
a work which the state itself might build, the corporation as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argumetnt for Defendant in Error.

part -of its charter agreeci to give to the state a part of what
the state might have wholly reserved. The state. gave up its
power to construct the highway itself to the corporation, and
as a price therefor reserved a portion of the tolls, which it
might have earned for itself if it had itself commenced and
-operated the railroad. The opinion of Judge Bradley is with
reference to this aspect of the case, and the remarks as to the
difference between artificial highways such as railroads, and
natural highways such as rivers and seas, were evidently with
reference to the fact that the state had delegated a part of its
power to construct, control, and reap profits from an artificial
highway,. reserving ,a part of the profit to itself. There is
nothing in that case that can be construed into a departure
from the case of the Railway Gross Receipts or as laying
down the doctrine th.tt the right of the state to tax a corporation or its franchises generally upon .the basis of the gross receipts is limited to the case of railroad companies or companies
having the power to construct and oerate an artificial highway.
The -RailwayGross Receipts Case and the present, case are
both under a general statute imposing a tax upon transportation companies generally. They are both alike cases of taxation upon the franchises of carrying companies according to a
certain measurement, and therefore the remarks of Judge
Bradley in the case in 21 Wallace would not be directly applicable here.
Co. v. BtThe cases of Grover & Baker Sewing .IfaeA4i
61 Ind.
Co.,
ger
2fanufacturing
v.
Si
Shook
Ind.
454;
ler, 53
not
are
clearly
309,
2
Bissell,
Roblinson,
520, and Ex parte

applicable.
The present case is nof in any way analogous to the case of
an attempt to restrain, limit, or regulate the transaction of business in manufacturing and selling patenfts. Itmay be even conceded that the imposition of conditions and restrictions, upon
corporations exercising such business would -not be valid, with,out in any way affecting our present contention.
Granted that the right to navigate the navigable waters of
the United States is free-to all, subject only to the regula-

THILA. STEAM1SHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

335

Opinion of the Court.

tions imposed by the navigation laws, the right to tax the
property or franchises is not a restraint, condition, or limitation on the operations or business of navigating any more
than such tax is a limitation on the operation of, or carriage
upon, a train of railway cars. Any restriction or limitation,
such as requiring a license or enrolment, or payment of port
fees for the privilege of passing through the harbors, rivers, or
other waters of a state would be an analogous case, and these
requirements of course could not be sustained. That a tax
might indirectly affect the commerce in question, by increasing its burdens or rates, is, as shown in the cases cited, no valid
objection to its collection, and therefore, for that reason, could
not be an objection in the present case.
This would be co even if the United States conferred the
right of navigation instead of merely licensing and regulating it.

Whether, therefore, the Railway G6oss Receipts Case and
others which have followed and accepted its conclusions, be
regarded as sustaining such a tax upon the corporation franchises whose value is measured thereby, or upon such receipts
as property received into its possession, the right of taxation
in the present case may be regarded as having been thereby
finally settled. To refuse to sustain the right of taxation
upon the gioss receipts of steamship companies would necessitate a direct overruling of the solemn adjudications of this
court, for there is no rational distinction which ca'n be drawn
to take this case out of the operation of the principles heretofore announced.
aft)r stating the .case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

J

sTIcE

BADLEY,

The question which underlies the immediate question in the
case is, whether the imposition of the tax upon the steamship
company's receipts amounted to a regulation of or an interference with, interstate and foreign commerce, and was thus in
conflict with the power granted by the Constitution to Congress? The tax was levied directly upon the receipts' derived

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

by the company from its fares and freights for the transportation of persons and goods between different states, and between
the states and foreign countries, and from the charter of its
vessels which was for the same purpose. This transportation
was an act of interstate and foreign commerce. It was the
carrying on of such commerce. It was that, and nothing else.
In view of the decisions of this court, it cannot be pretended
that the state could constitutionally regulate or interfere with
that commerce itself. But taxing is one of the forms of regulation. It is one of the principal forms. Taxing the transportation, either by its tonnage, or its distance, or by the number of trips performed, or in any other way, would certainly
be a regulation of the commerce, a restriction upon it, a bur,
den upon it. Clearly this could not be done by the state
without interfering with the power of Congress. Foreign
commerce has been fully regulated by Congress, and any regulations imposed by the states upon that branch of commerce
would be a palpable interference. If Congress has not made
any express regulations with regard to interstate commerce,
its inaction, as we have often held, is equivalent to a declaration that it shall be free, in all cases where its power is exclusive; and its power is necessarily exclusive whenever the subject matter is national in its character and properly'admits of
only one uniform system. See the cases collected in Robbins
v. Shkey Taxing District,120 U. S. 489, 492, 493. Interstate
commerce carried on by ships on the sea is surely of this character.
If, then, the commerc6 carried on by the plaintiff in error in
this case could not be constitutionally taxed by-the state, could
the fares and freights received for transportation in carrying
on that commerce be constitutionally taxed? If the state
cannot tax the transportation, may it, nevertheless, tax the
fares and freights received therefor? Where is the difference?
Looking at the substance of things, and not at mere forms, it
is very difficult to see any difference. The one thing seems to
be tantamount to the other. It would seem to be rather metaphysics than plain logic for the state officials to say to the
company: "We will not tax you for the bransportation you
Y

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

337

Opinion of the C6urt.
perform, but we will tax you for what you get for performing
it." Such-a position can hardly be said to -be based on a sound
method of reasoning.
This court did not so reason in the case of Brown v. .faryland, 12 Wheat. 419. The state of Maryland required all importers of foreign goods and other persons, selling the same by
wholesale, bale or package, to take out a license and pay $50
therefor, subject to a penalty and forfeiture for .selling without such license: It was contended on the part of the state
that this was a mere tax on the occupatio, of selling foreign
goods, affecting only the person snd not the importation of
the goods themselves, or the occupation of importing them.
Chief Justice Marshall met this objection by showing that
the attempt to regulate the sale of imported goods was as
much in conflict with the power of Congress to regulate cominerce as a regulation of their importation itself would be. "If
this power," said he, (referring .to the power of Congress,)
"reaches the interior of a state, and may be there exercised, it
must be capable of authorizing the sale of those articles which
it introduces. Commerce is intercourse : one of its most ordinary ingredients. is traffic. It is inconceivable that the power
to authorize this traffic, when given in the most comprehensive
tens, with the intent that its efficacy should be complete,
should cease at the point when its continuance is indispensable"
to its value. To what purpose should the power to allow importation be given, unaccompanied with the power to authorize
a sale of the thing impprted? Sale is the object of importation, and is an essential ingredient of that intercourse, of
which importation constitutes a part. It is as essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the existence of the entire thing,
then, as importation itself. It must be considered as a coinponent part of the power to regulate commerce. Congress
has a right, not only to authorize importation, but to authorize
the importer to sell. . . . Any penalty inflicted on the
importer for selling the article in his character of importer
must be in opposition to the act of Congress which authofizes
importation. . . . The distinction between -a tax on the
thing imported, and on the person of the importer, can have
VOL. cx

-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

no influence on this part of the subject. It is too obvious for
controversy that they interfere equally with the power to regulate commerce." pp. 446-448.
The application of this reasoning to the case in hand is obvious. Of what use would it be to the ship-owner, in carrying
on interstate and foreign commerce, to have the right of transporting persons and goods free from state interference, if he
had not the equal right to charge for such transportation without such interference? The very object of his engaging in
transportation is to receive pay for it. If the regulation of
the transportation belongs to the power of Congress to regulate commerce, the regulation of fares and freights receivable
for such transportation must equally belong to that power;
and any burdens imposed by the state on such receipts must
be in conflict with it. To apply the language of Chief Justice
Mfarshall, fares and freights for transportation in carrying on
interstate or foreign commerce are as much essential ingredients of that commerce as transportation itself.
It is necessary, however, that we should examine what bearing the cases of the State _Feight Tax and Railway Gross Receipts, reported in 15th of Wallace, have upon the question in
hand. These cases were much quoted in argument, and the
latter was confidently relied on by the bounsel of the Commonwealth. They both arose under certain tax laws of Pennsylvania. The first, which is reported under the title of Case of
the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, was that of* the Reading
Railroad Company, and arose under an act passed in 1S64-,
which imposed upon every raihoad, steamboat, canal and
slack-water navigation company a tax of a certain rate per ton
on every ton of freight carried by or upon the works of said
company; with a proviso directing, in substance, that every
company, foreign or domestic, whose line extended partly in
Pennsylvania, and partly in another state, should pay for the
freight carried over that portion of its line in Pennsylvania
the same as if its whole line were in that state. Under this
law the Reading Railroad Company was charged a tax of
$38,000 for freight transported to points within Pennsylvania,
and of $46,000 for that exported to points without the state.

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

339

Opinion of the Court.

The latter sum the company refused to pay; and the question
in this court .was, whether that portion of the tax was constitutional; and we held that it was not. Mr. Justice Strong
delivered the opinion of the court. It was held that this was
not a, tax upon the franchises of the companies, or upon their
property, or upon their business, measured by the number of
tons of freight carried; but was a tax upon the freight carried,
and because of its carriage: that transportation is a constituent of commerce: that the tax was, therefore, a regulation
of conunerce, and a regulation of commerce among the states:
that the transportation of passengers or merchandise from one
state to another is, in its nature, a matter of national importance, admitting of a uniform system or plan of regulation,
and therefore, under the rule established by Coolky v. The
Port T'ard~enms, 12 How. 299, exclusively subject to the legislation of Congress. The inevitable conclusion was, that the tax
then in question was in conflict with the exclusive power of
Congress to regulate commerce among the states, and was,
therefore, unconstitutional. Referring to the decision in Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, in which this court had decided that
a state cannot tax persons for passing through or out of it, Justice Strong said: "If state taxation of persons passing from
one state to another, or a state tax upon interstate transportation of passengers, is unconstitutional, afortiori,if possible, is
a state tax upon the carriage of merchandise from state to
state in conflict with the Federal Constitution. Merchandise
is the subject of commerce. 'Transportation is essential to
commerce; and every burden laid upon it is pro tanto a restriction. Whatever, therefore, may be the true doctrine respecting
the exclusiveness of the power vested in Congress to regulate
commerce among the states, we regard it as established that
no state can impose a tax upon freight transported from state
to state, or upon the transporter because of such transportation."
The court in its opinion took notice of the fact that the
law was general in its terms, making no distinction between
freight transported wholly within the state and that which
was destined to, or came from, another state. But it was held

OCTOBER TERM11,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

that this made no difference. The law might be valid as to
one class, arid unconstitutional as to the other. On this subject Justice Strong said: "The state may tax its internal commerce, but if an act to tax interstate or foreign commerce is
unconstitutional, it is not cured by including in its provisions
subjects within the jurisdiction of the state. No' is a rule prescribed for carriage of goods through, out of, or into a state,
any the less a regulation of transportation because the same
rule 'may be applied to carriage which is wholly internal."
This last observation meets the argument that might be made
in the present case, namely, that the law is general in its terms,
and taxes receipts for all transportation alike, making no discrimination, against receipts for interstate or foreign transportation, and hence cannot be regarded as a special tax on the
latter. The decision in the case cited shows that this does not
relieve the tax from its objectionable character.
If this casd stood alone, we should have no hesitation in saying that it would entirely govern the one before us; for, as
before said, a tax upon fares and freights received for transportation is virtually a tax upon the transportation itself.
But at the same time that the Case of State Freight Tax was
decided, the other case referred to, namely, that of State Tax
on Railway Gross Receipts, was also decided, and the opinion
was delivered by the same member of the court. 15 Wall.
284. This was also a case of a tax imposed upon the Reading
Railroad Company. It arose under another act of Assembly
of Pennsylvania, passed. inFebruary, 1866, by which it was
enacted that "in addition to the taxes now provided by law,
every railroad, canal and transportation company incorporated
under the laws of this commonwealth, and not liable to 'the
tax upon income under existing laws, shall pay to the commonwealth a tax of three-fourths of one per centum upon the
gross receipts of said company; the said tax shall be paid
semiannually." Under this statute the accounting officers of
Pennsylvania stated an account against the Reading Railroad
Company for tax on gross receipts of the company for the half
year ending December 31, 1867. These receipts were derived
partly from the freight of goods transported wholly within

PHILA. STEAISHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

31

Opinion of the Court.
the state, and partly from the freight of goods exported to
points without the state, which latter were discriminated from
the former in the reports made by the company. It was the
tax on the latter receipts which formed the subject of controversy. The same line of argument was taken at the bar as in
the other case. This court, however, held the tax to be constitutional. The grounds on which the opinion was based, in
order to distinguish this case from the .preceding one, were
two: first, that the tax, being collectible only once in 'six
months, was laid upon a fund which had become the property
of the company, mingled with its other property, and incorporated into the general mass of its property, possibly expended
in improvements, or otherwise invested. The case is likened,
in the opinion, to that of taxing goods which have been imported, after their original packages have been broken, and
after they have been mixed with the mass of property in the
country, which, it was said, are conceded in Brown v. .Yalryland to be taxable.
This reasoning seems to have much force. But'is the
analogy to the case of imported goods as perfect as is suggested? When the latter become mingled with the general
mass of property in the state, they are not followed and singled out for taxation as imported goods, and by reason of their
being imported. If they were, the tax would be as unconstitutional as if imposed upon. them whilst in the original packages. When mingled with the general mass of property in
the state they are taxed in the same manner as other property
possessed by its citizens, without 'discrimination or partiality.
We held in ]eltom v. Missouwi, 91 U. S. 275, that goods
brought into a state for sale, though they thereby become a
part of the mass of its property, cannot be taxed by reason of
their being introduced into the state, or because they are the
products of another state. To tax them as such was expressly
held to be unconstitutional. Ie tax in the present case is
laid upon the gross receipts for transportation as such. Those
receipts are followed and caused to be accounted for by the
company, dollar for dollar. It is those specific- receipts, or the
amount thereof, (which is the same thing,) for which the com-

342 "

OCTOBER TERAI,

, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

pany is called upon to pay the tax. They axe taxed- not only
because they axe money, or its value, but because they were
received for transportation. JlTo doubt a ship-owner, like any
other citizen, may be personally taxed for the amount of his
property or estate, without regard to the source from which it
was derived, whether from commerce, or banking, or any
other employment. But.that is an entirely different thing
from laying a special tax upon his receipts in a particular employmeht. If such a tax is laid, and the receipts taxed are
those derived from transporting goods and passengers in the
way of interstate or foreign commerce, no matter when the
tax is exacted, whether at the time of realizing the receipts,
or at the end of every six months or a year, it is an-exaction
aimed at the commerce itself, and is a burden upon it, and
seriously affects it. A review of the question convinces us
that the first ground on which the decision in State Tax on.
Railway Gross 1eceipts was placed is not tenable; that it is
not supported by anything decided m Brawn v. 3Afaryland;
but, on the contrary, that the reasoning in that case is decidedly against it.
• The second ground on which the decision referred to was
based was, that the tax was upon the franchise of the corporation granted to it by the state. We do not think that this
can be affirmed in the present cab. It certainly could not
have been intended a a tax on the corporate franchise, because, by- the terms of the act, it was laid equally on the corporations of other states doing business in Pennsylvania. If
intended as a tax on the franchise of doing business, -which
in this case is the business of transportation in carrying on
interstate and foreign commerce, -it would clearly be unconstitutional. It was held by this court in the case of Gloucester0
Ferry Company v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, that interstate commerce carried on by corporations is entitled to the
same protection against state exactions which is given to such
commerce when carried on by individuals. In that case the
tax was laid upon the capital stock of a ferry company incorporafed by New Jersey, and engaged in the business of transporting passengers and freight between Camden, in New Jer-

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

343

Opinion of the Court.

sey, and the city of Philadelphia. The law under which the
tax was imposed was passed by the legislature of Pennsylvania on the 7th of June, 1879, and declared "that every company or association whatever, now or hereafter incorporated
by or under any law of this commonwealth, or now or hereafter incorporated by any other state or territory of the United
States, or foreign government, and doing business in this commonwealth," . . . [with certain exceptions named,] "shall
be subject to and p6y into the treasury of the commonwealth
annually a tax to be computed as follows, namely :" the
amount of tax is then rated by the dividends declared, and
imposed upon the capital stock'of the company at the rate of
so many mills, or fractions of a .mill; for every dollar of such
capital stock. It was contended that the ferry company
could not hold property in'Philadelphia for the purpose of
carrjring on its ferrying business, and could not carry on its
said business there without a franchise, express or implied,
from the state of Pennsylvania. But this court held, in its
6pinion, delivered by Mr. Justice Field, that the business of
landing and receiving passengers and freight at the wharf in
Philadelphia was a necessary incident to, and a part of, their
transportation across the Delaware River from New Jersey;
that without it, that transportation would be impdssible; that
a tax upon such receiving and landing of passengers and freight
is a-tax upon their transportation, that is, upon the commerce
between the two states involved in such transportation; and
that Congress alone can deal with such transportation; its
non-action being equivalent to a declaration that it shall remain
free from burdens imposed by state legislation. The opinion
proceeds as follows: 1" Nor does it make any difference whether
such commerce is carried on by individuals or corporations.
Wedton v. -Missouri,91 U. S. 275; .Mobile v. imbal, 102 U. S.
691. As was said in Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, at the
time of the formation of the Constitution, a large part of the
commerce of the world was carried on by corporations; and
the East India Company, the Hudson Bay Company, the Hamburgh Company, the Levant Company, and the Virginia Company were mentioned as among the corporations which, from

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the extent of their operations, had become celebrated throughout the commercial world. The grant of power [to Congress]
is general in its terms, making no reference to the agencies by
which commerce may be carried on. It includes commerce
by whomsoever conducted, whether by individuals or corporations." p. 204. Again, "While it is conceded that the property in a state belonging to a. foreign corporation engaged in
foreign or interstate commerce may be taxed equally with like
property of'a domestic corporation engaged in that business,
we are clear that a tax or other burden imposed on the property of either corporation because it is used to carry on that
commerce, or upon the transportation of persons or property,
or for the navigation of the public waters over which the
transportation is made, is invalid and void as an interference
with, and obstruction of, the power of Congress in the regulation of such commerce.'p. 211. It is hardly necessary to
add that the tax on the capital stock of the Tew Jersey Company, in that case, was decided to be unconstitutional, because,
as the corporation was a foreign one, the tax could only be
construed as a tax for the privilege or franchise of carrying on its business, and that business was interstate commerce.
The decision in this case, and the reasoning on which it is
founded, so far- as they relate to the taxation of interstate
commerce carried on by corporations, apply equally to domestic and foreign corporations. No doubt the capital stock of
the former, regarded as inhabitants of the state, or their property, may be taxed as other corporations aild inhabitants are,
provided no discrimination be made against them as corporations carrying on foreign or interstate commerce, so as to
make the- tax, in effect, a tax on such commerce. But theirbusiness as carriers in foreign or interstafe commerce cannot
be taxed by the state, under the plea that they are exercising
a franchise.
There is another point, however, which may properly deserve some attention. Can the tax in this case be regarded as
an income tax? and, if it can, does that make any difference
as to its constitutionality? We do not think that it can properly be regarded as an income tax. It is not a general tax on

PHILA. STEAMSHIP CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

345

Opinion of the Court.

the incomes of all the inhabitants of the state; but a special
tax on transportation companies. Conceding, however, that
an income tax may be imposed on certain classes of the community, distinguished by the character of their occupations;
this is not an income tax on the class to which it refers, but a
'tax on their receipts for transportation only. Many of the
companies included in it may, and undoubtedly do, have incomes from other sources, such as rents of houses, wharves,
stores, and water-power, and interest on moneyed investments.
As a tax on transportation, we have already seen from the
quotations from the State Freight Tax Case that it cannot be
supported where that transportation is an ingredient of interstate or foreign commerce, even,though the law imposing the
tax be expressed in such general terms as to include receipts
from transportation which are properly taxable. It is unnecessary, therefore, -to discuss the question which would arise
if the tax were properly a tax on income. It is clearly not
such, but a tax on transportation only.
The' corporate franchises, the property, tho business, the
income of corporations created by a state may undoubtedly be
taxed by the state; but in imposing such taxes care should be
taken not to interfere with or hamper, directly or by indirection, interstate or foreign commerce, or any other matter
exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Federal government.
This is a principle so often announced by the courts, and especially by this. court, that it may be received as an axiom of
our constitutional jurisprudence. It is unnecessary, therefore,
to review the long list of cases in which the subject is discussed.
Those referred to are abundantly sufficient for our purpose.
We may add, however, that since the decision of the Railway
Tax Cases now reviewed, a series of cases has received the con-sideration of this court, the decisions in which are in general
harmony with the views here expressed, and show the extent
and limitations of the rule that a state cannot regulate or tax
the operations or objects of interstate or foreign commerce.
We may refer to the following: Railroad Co. v. Hfusem, 95
U. S, 465; Cook v. Pennsylvania,97 U. S. 566; Guy v. Balimore, 100 U. S. 434; TWebber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344;

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

_3oran v. 11ew Orleans, 112 U. S. 69; Talling v..ichigan.,
116 U. S. 446; Pickard v. Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34;
Wabash d St. Louis Railroadv. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Robbins v. Shelby County, 120 U. S. 489; Fargov. ficlhigan, 121
U. S. 230. The cases of iforan v. iYew Orleansand Fargo v.
.Aichigan are especially apposite to the case now under consideration. As showing the power of the states over local matters incidentally affecting commerce, see bnn v. Illinois, 94
U. S. 113, 123, and other cases in the same volume, viz: Mhicago
" Burlington Railroadv. Iowa, pp. 155, 161; Peik v. Chicago
" Xorthwestern Railway, pp. 164, 176; Winona & St. Peter
Railroadv. Blake, p. 180, as explained by Wabash Co. v. ll1inois; The hTarfage Cases, viz., Packet Co. v. KTeokzk, 95 U. S.
80, Packet Co. v. St. Iouis, 100 U. S. 423, 428, Packet Co. v.
Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559, 563; T ansortation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691, 698; Ouachita Packet Co. v. Aiken,
121 U. S. 4-4; Mobile v. -imball, 102 _U. S. 691; Brown v.
H~ouston, 114 U. S. 622, 630; Railroad Commission' Cases, 116
U. S. 307; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517.
It is hardly within the scope of the present discussion to
refer to the disastrous effects to which the power to tax inter
state or foreign commerce may lead. If the power exists in
the state at all, it has no limit but the discretion of the state,
and might be exercised in such a manner as to drive away
that commerce, or to load it with an intolerable burden, seriously affecting the business and prosperity of other states
interested in it; and if those states, by way of retaliation, or
otherwise, should impose like restrictions, the utmost confusion
would. prevail in our commercial affairs. In view of 'such a
state of things which actually existed under the Confederation,
Chief Justice Marshall, in the case befor6 referred to, said:
"Those who felt the injury arising from this state of things,
and those who were capable of estimating the influence of
commerce on the prosperity of nations, perceived the necessity
of giving the coitrol over-this important subject to a single
government. It may be doubted whether any of thobvils proceeding from the feeblefiess of the, Federal government contributed more to that great revolutionwvhili ntrodeed the

W. U. TELEGRAPH CO. v. PENDLETON.
Syllabus.

present system, than the deep and general conviction that
commerce ought to be regulated by Congress. It is not,
therefore, matter of surprise, that the grant should be as
extensive as the mischief, and should comprehend all foreign
commerce, and all commerce among the states. To construe
the power so as to impair its efficacy, would tend to defeat an
object, in the attainment of which the American public took,
and justly took, that strong interest which arose from a full
conviction of its necessity." 12 Wheat. 446.
Nothing can be added to the force of these words.
Our conclusion is, that the imposition of the tax in question
in this cause was a regulation of interstate and fQreign commerce, in conflict with the exclusive powers of Congress under
the Constitution.
Te judgment of the Si:'eme Court of Pennsylvania is,
therefore, reversed, and the case is remanded to be disposed
of according to law, in conformity with this crinion.

WESTERN UNION TELEGIRAPH CO. v. PENDLETON.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE-E COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
Argued April 27, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

The statutes of the state of Indiana, §§ 4176, 41.78, Rev. Stat. Ind. 1881,
which require telegraph companies to deliver despatches by messenger to the persons to whom the same are addressed or to their agents
provided they reside within one mile of the telegraphic station or within
the city or town ir which such station is, are in conflict with the clause
of the Constitution of the United States which vests in Congress the
power to regul-te commerce among the states, in so far as they attempt
to regulate the delivery of such despatches at places situated in other
states.
The authority of Congress over the subject of commerce by telegraph with
foreign countries or among the states being supreme, no state can impose an Impediment to its freedom, by attempting to regulate the delivery in other states of messages received within its own borders.
The reserved police power of a state under the Constitution, although difficult to define, does not extend to the regulation of the delivery at

