522

OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Syllabus.

made a motion to remand the suit, and this being overruled,
on the 4th of May he filed an amended bill, to which the
defendants demurred June 1. This demurrer was set down
for argument on the first Monday in November.
Other
motions were filed by the defendants, but, before any of
them were disposed of, Seeligson, on the 19th of November,
dismisged the suitas to Huntington, and at once moved to
remand. This motion was granted January 9, 1886, and
from: that order this appeal was taken.
As the suit could only have been renioved because of the
alleged separate cause of action against Huntington, it was
right to remand it as soon as the discontinuance was entered
as to him. The express provision of § 5 of the act of 1875,
is, that if "it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit
Court at any time after such suit has been
.
.
removed
thireto that such suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the j".isdiction
of said Circuit Court, . . . the said Circuit Court shall
proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or
remand it to the court from which it was removed, as justice
may require." The court was not required to keep the suit
after the discontinuance, simply because it might have been
removed when Huntington was a party. As soon as he was.
out of the case, it did appear that "the suit did not really
a-ad substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly
within" its jurisdiction.
The order to remand is affirmed.

FISHER v. PERKINS.
ER1OR TO THE SUPERIOR "COURT OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
Submitted April'20, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

This court has -no power to review a judgment of the Superior Court of the
'State of-Kentucky, unless it appears not only that the judgment is one ofthe class 'in which the- statute of that-state provides that the. judgment

FISHER % PERKINS.
Statement of the. Case.
within
of that court may be final, but also that an application was made,
and that the applica-.
proper time, for an appeal to the Court of Appeals.,
tion was refused by the Superior Court.

Tnis was a writ of error to the Superior Court' of the
state of Kentucky for the review of ; judgment of that court,
and the defendant, although uniting with the plaintiff in submitting the case for hearing on its merits, roved to dismiss
the wilt for want of jurisdiction, because the Superior Court is
not the highest court of the state in which a decision in the
suit can be had. The record showed a suit by W. I. Perkins
against James H. Fisher in the Circuit Court of Daviess
County for the recovery of money and a judgment therein for
Fisher. Afterwards this judgment was reversed by the Court
of Appeals of the state, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings. When the Case got back, to, the Circuit Court
additional pleadings w6re iled and a trial had, which resulted
in a judgment in favor of Perkins for less than $1000. From
this judgment Fisher appealed to the Court of Appeals.
Before this appeal was decided the Superior Court'of the state
was organized, and the case was transferred, in due course of
law, to that court for decision.
Those parts of the act establishing - the Superior Court,
which relate to the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of
Appeals for the review of its judgmentb are as follows:
"§ 5. The Court of Appeals shall have appellate jurisdiction
over the final orders and judgments of the Superior Court in
all cases except the following: 1. Those for fines or for the recovery of money or personal property where the amount of
the fine, or the value in controversy, is less than one thousand
dollars, exclusive of interest and cost; 2. Those where the
judgment of the lower court had been affirmed by the Superior
Court without a dissenting vote. But if, in any case coming
within either of the above exceptions, any two of the judges
of the Superior Court shall certify that, in their opinion, the
question involved is novel, and is one of sufficient importance,
the party against whom the decision was rendered shall be entitled to take the same by appeal to the Court of Appeals as
in othe cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

-'§ 6. If an appeal shall be taken to the Court of Appeals of
-which the Superior Court has jurisdiction, or, if taken to the
Superior Court when the Court of Appeals has jurisdiction, it
shall not be'dismissed, but shall be transferred to the court
having jurisdiction.
"§7,, All appeals from the Superior 0ourt to the Court of
Appeals shall be prayed and granted in the Superior Court.
But no appeal shall. be granted after six months from the time
the right to appeal first accrued, unless the party applying
therefor was a defendant in the original action, and an infant'
ngt .under coverture, or of unsound mind, or a prisoner who
did not appear by his attorney, in which cases an appeal may
be granted to such parties or their representatives within
their disatwelve months after their death, or the removal of
1881, p. 113.
Acts
occur."
first
may
whichever
bilities,
The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed by the Superior Cqitrt "without a dissenting vote," and for the review
of that judgment of affirmance this writ of error was brought,
no application having been previously made to the Superior
Court for the allowance of an appeal to the Court of Appeals.
M11r. George W. Joy for plaintiff in error.
It is manifest enough from an inspection of the fifth section
of the statute creating the Superior, Court of Kentucky, that
the plaintiff in error had no right or power to appeal this case
to the Court of 4peals ; the value in controversy, excluding
interest and costs, was less than $1000; the judgment of the
Daviess Circuit Court wa. affirmed by the Superior Court
without a dissenting vote - because, as the court say, the
Court of Appeals had held that the discharge in bankruptcy
did not release Fisher, and that Perkins was entitled to judgment, and that opinion1 settled the law of this case; and no
two of the judges having certified that the question involved
was novel, or of sufficient importance -therefore plaintiff in
error was not "entitled to take the same by appeal to the Court
of Appeals."'
Surely it cannot be reasonably contended that it -was the

FISHER v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

duty of plainti, in error, before suing out this writ of error,
to have appeared before the Superior Court, and prayed for
an appeal to the Court of Appeals, when on the face of the
statute, which is too plain and unambiguous to need construction, he was not " entitled" to it?
And would it not be extraordinary under the circumstances.•
of this case to require that to be done, when the Superior. '
Court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court in obedience
and pursuant to the opinion of the Court of Appeals?
The Court of Appeals reversed the case and remanded it for'
further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion. 80 Ky.
11, 13.
That was not a final judgment for the purposes of a writ of
error to this court. Johmon v. KeitA, 117 U. S. 199.
The judgment in this case by the Superior Court was final,
and was rendered by the highest court in the state in which a
decision could be had.
.Mi. C. S. Valker for defendant in error.
MR.CH=EF

JUSTICE

WAm, after stating the

case as above

reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
This court has no power to review any other judgments of
the courts of a state than those of the highest court "in which
a decision in the suit could be had." § 709, Rev. Stat. The
Court of Appeals is the highest court of the state of Ken'tucky,
and, consequently, until it has been made to appear affirmatively on the face of the record that a decision in this suit
could not have been had in that court, we axe not authorized
to review the judgment of the Superior Court. Although the
value in controversy is less than $1000, and the judgment of
the inferior court was affirmed by the Superior Court without
a dissenting vote, an appeal did lie to the Court of Appeals if
two of the judges of the Superior Court certified that, in their
opinion, the question involved was novel and of sufficient importance.
To get an appeal from the Superior Court in any case an

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

application therefor must be made to and granted by that
court.. -Such is the express provision of § I of the act under
which the court was organized. Certainly it would not be
claimed that a judgnent of the Superior Court could be .reviewed by this court in a case not within the exceptions mentioned in § 5 before an application had been made in proper
time for the allowance of an appeel, and the application refused for some sufficient reason.. It is true that in this. particular case the prayer for an appeal could not have been granted,
unless the necessary certificate was given; but if .given, it
would have been as much the duty of the court to make the.
order of allowance as it would if the value in controversy had
exceeded one thousand dollars, or the judgment of affirmance
had been with a dissenting vote. Such a certificate enters into
and forms part of the allowance of an appeal in a case like
this, and an application for the allowance necessarily includes
an application for the certificate, unless it has been obtained
before, because the certificate is one of the ingredients of an
allowance. The want of a certificate is good reason for refusing to allow an appeal, but until it has been asked for and refused its absence furnishes no ground for a writ of error from
this court.
The principle on which this case rests is illustrated by what
was decided in Gregory v. -e IFeigh, 23 Wal]. 294. In Virginia, the Supreme Court of Appeals is the highest court of
the state. Judgments of the Corporation Court of Alexandria
can only be taken there for review on. leave of the Court of
Appeals itself or some judge thereof. Gregory, against whom
a judgment had been rendered in the Corporation Court, ap
plied to each and every one of the judges of the Court of Appeals for a writ of error, but his applications were all rejected
because the judgment was "plainly right." This, by a statute
of Virginia, was a bar to any application to the court for the
same purpose, and Gregory thereupon sued out a writ of error
from this court to the Corporation Court, as the highest court
of the state in which a decision in the suit could be had.
Upon a motion to dismiss we upheld our jurisdiction, because
everything -hadbeen done that could be to take the case to the

FISHER v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals, and its doors had "been forever closed
against the suit, n6t through neglect, but in the regular order
of proceeding under the ldw governing the practice." Had
the court itself refused the leave upon an application for that
purpose, its refusal would have been equivalent to a judgment
of affirmance, which could have been reviewed in this court;
but as in the regular course of proceeding that had been done
which prevented either a review of a judgment of the Court
of Appeals or an application to that court for a writ of error,
the judgment of the Corporation Court had become the judgment of the highest court of the state in which a decision in
that suit could be had, and consequently was reviewable here
as such.
So, here, if an application to the Superior Court for an appeal had been refused, the doors of the Court of Appeals would
'have been closed against the suit, and we could have proceeded
accordingly. As it is, we find nothing in the record to show
that the suit could not have been taken to the Court of Appeals if the necessary application had been made, and, consequently, we have no right to proceed. It matters not that the
judgment of the Superior'Court is in accordance with what
was decided by the Court- of Appeals on the former appeal.
The judgment is still the judgment- of the Superior Court,
which is not the highest court of the state, and it might have
been taken to the Court of Aplieals for review if the grant of
an appeal had been applied for and secured. XIcomb v. Commissioners of .Ynox County, 91 U. S.1; Eimball v. -Evans,93

U. S.320; Davis v. Crouch, 94 U. S. 514, 517. We are not
to assume that an appeal would not have been granted if applied for. The record must show its refusal.
The motion to dismiss is granted.

