OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

livered to the defendant as a portion of the ore referred to in
the written agreement as purchased by him from the company, or that that portion of the agreement was ever carried
into execution. The last instruction quoted was, therefore,
based upon an erroneous theory, unsupported by evidence,
and the jury may have rendered its verdict upon this erroneous theory, ignoring the view that the defendant was the
company. This second erroneous -instruction may, therefore,
have misled the jury to the injury of the defendant.
For these errors, the judgment ig reversed and the case is

remanded to the Circuit Court, with a direction to award
a new trial.

WILLIAMS v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
ERROR TO THE oMROUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Aigued Muacb 16, 1887.-Decided May 23,1887.

Stanley v. Supervisors of Albany, 121 U. S. 535, affirmed to the point that a
party who feels himself aggrieved by overvaluation of his property for
purposes of taxation, and does not resort to the tribunal created by the
state for correction of errors in assessments before levy of the tax, cannot maintain an action at law to recover the excess of taxes paid beyond
what should have been levied on a just valuation. His remedy is inequity, to enjoin the colldction of-the illegal excess upon payment or
tender of the amount due upon what is admitted to be a just valuation..
The mode in which property shall be appraised; by whom and when that shall
be done; what certificate of their action shall be furnished by the board
which does it; and when parties may be heard for the correction of
errors, are all matters within legislative discretion; and it is within the
power of a state legislature to cure an omission or a defective performance of such of the acts required by law to be performed by local boards
in the assessment of taxes as could have been in the first place omitted
from the requirements of the statute, or which might have been required
to- be done at another time than that named in it; provided always, that
intervening rights are not impaired.
The statute passed by the legislature of New York April 30, 1883, to legalize and confirm the assessments in Albany for the years 1876, 1877, and

WILLIAMS v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBAINY.

155

Statement of the Case.
1878 was not in conflict with the acts of Congress respccting the taxation of shares of stock in national banks, and was a valid exercise of thepower of the legislature to cure irreglarities in assessments.

THIS was an action to recover the amount .of certain
taxes alleged to have been illegally collected from the
plaintiff and others on sundry shares of stock held by them in
the National Albany Exchange Bank, in the city of Albany,
New York, and paid into the treasury of the county. The
stockholders other than the plaintiff assigned to him their respective claims before its commencement. Their demands
were originally embraced in an action brought by one Edward N. Stanley against the Board of Supervisors, he being at'
th time assignee of their claims. In that action judgment
was recovered by him. The case being brought to this court,
the judgment was reversed, and the cause remanded with
leave to the court below, in its discretion, to hear evidence
upon the point whether the shares were habitually and intentionally assessed higher in proportion to their actual value than
other moneyed capital generally, and, if necessary, to allow an
amendment of the pleadings that the point might be properly
presented. Superviors v.Staney, 105 U. S.305. When the
case was remanded, on application to the court below, all the
counts of the complaint, except the fourth; were amended.
Subsequently, however, Stanley discontinued the action as to
the claim for the taxes assessed and collected for the years
1876, 1877, and 1878. The plaintiff then took an assignment
of the claim for those taxes from Stanley and commenced thb
present action. He contended that the assessment for those
years upon the shares of the stock of the bank was illegal on
these grounds:
1st. Because it was not made within the period required by
law, which was before the first of September of each year; but
after that date.
2d. Because it was not accompanied by the oath of the
assessors, that it had been made at the full and true value of
the' shares, subject only to certain specified deductions allowed
by law.
3d. Because it was higher, in proportion to the actual value

OCTOBER TERM , 1886.
Statement of the Case.

of the shares, than the assessment of other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens of the state was to its actual
value.
The defendant answered thesd grounds by a general denial,
and by setting up an act of the legislature of New York,
passed April 30, 188n, legalizing and confirming the assessment. 1
1 The following is a copy of the provisiofis of that- act found in the
Session Laws of 18s3, at page 522, omitting the title and enacting clause.
SECTION 1. The assessments contained 4n thp assessment-rolls of the respective wards of the city of Albany, for the years eighteen hundred 'and
seventy-six, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and eighteen hundred and
seventy-eight, and which are now on, fie in the office of the receiver of taxes
of the city, are hereby in all things legalized and confirmed, subject to the
rights of the shareholders or their personal representatives in national or
state banks which were located ifi said city during those years, and the
assessments against whom, by reason of their ownership of such shares,
were collected by process of law, to claim a deduction from or cancellation
of such assessments as provided for in the next section.
"§ 2. Within ten days after the passage of this act, the assessors of the
city of Albany shall publish a notice subscribed by them, in the official
papers of the city, daily, Sundays and holidays excepted, for three weeks,
notifying all of such above described shareholders that at the office of such
assessors in the city of Albany for three weeks subsequent to the last day
of the publication of such notice, Sundays and holidays excepted, the assessors will be in attendance, and will hear any application that may be made
to them for the purpose of deducting froin the assessments aforesaid any
amount which such shareholder or his personal representative would have
been entitled to deduct under the law as it existed in the year when the
assessment was placed in the roll, bad such application then been made.
§ 3. During the time above named, any of such above described shareholders assessed in any of such rolls, or any one representing them, may
appear before such assessors and make application to have a reduction or
cancellation of such assessment upon any ground which would have been a
legal ground at the time when such assessment was placed in the roll, and
upon the facts as they existed at the time when such assessment was placed
in such roll. The assessors shall have power to administer an oath to the
applicant, and, after an examination of him upon the material facts of such
application, shall grant to him such deduction from or cancellation of the
assessment in question, as he would have been legally entitled to upon the
facts-as they existed at the time when the assessment to reduce or cancel
which the application is made was placed in the roll.
§ 4. After the expiration of the time for hearing applications, the assessors, or a majority of them, shall sign a certificate stating the name of the

WILLIAMS v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Statement of the Case.

The issues were tried by the court without the intervention
of a jury, by consent of parties. The court found the facts as
admitted by the pleadings and by stipulation of the parties,
from which it appeared, among other things, that no. entry of
any assessment of the shares of the stockholders of the bank
was made upon the assessment-roll of 1876, 1877, and 1878,
until after the 1st day of September of those years, and after
the time provided by law for revising and correcting the assessment ; that the oath of the assessors, annexed to the assessment of -each year, was defective in its averment respecting the
estimated value of the real estate assessed, but was correct in
its averment of the estimated value of the personal property;
that there were several banks, state and national, located in
the city of Albany, and that the actual value of their shares
during those years, with one exception, was above par, varying in that respect from ten to over one hundred per cent,
and y6t the value of all of them was assessed at par; that the
actual value of shares in the lational Albany Exchange Bank
was from twenty-five to thirty per cent above par; that the
asssessment of the shares of some of the other banks was
higher and of some of them lower than this figure; and that
the assessment at par was not made by the assessors with the
intent of discriminating against the holders'of national bank
shareholder or his personal representative, who is entitled to a deduction
from the amount contained in the assessment-roll, and the amount of such
deduction, and the amount of the interest thereon from the fifteenth day of
December of the year to which thQ deduction applies up to the first day of
February, eighteen hundred and eighty-four, and the certificate shall be
made up in duplicate, and one of them sent to the board of supervisors of
the county at its fall session in eighteen hundred and eighty-three, and the
other to the county treasurer.
§ 5. The board of supervisors shall at such session add to the amount to
beraised by tax for county purposes the total amount named in such certificate for the principal and interest of such deduction therein named, and
such sum shall be levied, assessed, and collected in the same way as Other
taxes for county purposes and paid to the county treasurer with other
county funds.
§ 6. The county treasurer, upon receipt of the moneys raised by tax, shall
pay to the parties named in such certificate sent him by the assessors, the
amount therein specified as due such persons.
§ 7. This act shall take effect immediately:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

shares, or in favor of the holders of state bank shares, or other
moneyed capital. As a conclusion of law, the court found that
the assessments were illegal because not made in conformity
with the laws of the state, but that they were legalized and
confirmed by the act of its legislature of April 30, 1883, and
that they were not in violation of any law of the United
States. 22 Blatchford, 302. Judgment was accordingly rendered for the defendant, -and the plaintiff brought the case
here for review.
-Mr. 3fatthew Hale for plaintiff in error.
I. The assessments referred to in the complaint were illegal
and void. This was conceded and held by the court below;
but, with a view to consider the effect of the confirmatory law,
it is deemed necessary here to discuss the grounds of such illegality.
(1) They were illegal by reason of the omission of the assessors to place the names of the shareholders upon the assessment-roll before September first in each year. It will be
readily seen from an examination of the statute that the
course of the assessors was entirely unwarranted by it. The
only way provided by law for making assessments in the city
of Albany is by inserting thein in the assessment-roll. The
fact that the paper was regarded by the assessors as a valid
and -legal assessment, as above stated, makes no difference.
The law required the assessment to be made in a certain way,
and it has been repeatedly held that an assessment made otherwise, or after the statutory time, is absolutely void. Clark7 v.
HYorton, 49 N. Y. 243 ; Wes~fall v. Preston,49 N. Y.-349. See
also Albahy City Bank v. faher, 6 Fed. Rep. 411.
(2) By reason. of the failure of the assessors to annex the
statutory oath or certificate-to the assessment-roll. It is perfectly well settled law in the state of New York that such a
departure from the statutory oath makes the assessment absolutely void. 'Fn Rensselaer v. .hTitecke,
7 N. Y. 517;
Hinckley v. Cooper, 22 Hun, 253; Brevoort v. Broodyn, 89
N. Y. 128.

WILLIAMS v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.

159

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(3) Because the assessments in question were at a greater
rate than was imposed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens, and were, therefore, a violation of
§ 5219 of the Revised Statutes. This resulted, not from accident, or from an erroneous judgment on the part of the assessors as to the actual value, but from the rule -which the
assessors, in spite of the remonstrances of the plaintiff and
others, persisted in. In other words, it resulted from the
illegal system adopted by the assessors, and not simply from
an erroneous judgment. This court held, in the Stanley case,
that if "the assessors habitually and intentionally, or by some
rule prescribed by themselves, or by some one whom they
were bound to obey, assessed the shares of the national banks
higher in proportion to their actual value than other moneyed
capital generally, then there is ground for recovery." 105
U. S. 318. It is plain, therefore, again referring to the language of this court in the Stanley case, that the assessors, in
defiance of law, habitually and intentionally, and by a "rule
prescribed by themselves," assessed the shaxes of the national
bank higher in proportion to their actual value than other
moneyed capital generally in the sixth ward.
II. The court erred in deciding that the act, c. 345 of
1883, was valid and effectual to legalize and confirm said assessments. This act, so far as it legalizes assessments, should
be held to apply only to such assessments as hdd not been collected. It is a sound rule of construction that a statute should
have a prospective operation only, unless its terms show clearly
a legislative intention that it should operate retrospectively.
United States v. Heth, 3 Cranch, 399; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall.
328 ; .Dask v. Van .leece, I Johns. 477 [S, C. 5 Am. Dec. 291] ;
.Drak v. Gilnwre, 52 N. Y. 389; QuackenusA v. Danks, 1
Denio, 128; S. C. 3 Deno, 594; Bay v. Gage, 36 Barb. 447;
Thanes .Xfg Co. v. Lathrop, 7 Conn. 550. If, however, the
act should be considerea as attempting to legalize the assessments in question upon which taxes have been collected, it is
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and is
void as depriving plaintiff and the other shareholders of their
property without due process of law, and also denying to

OCTOBER TERI, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

them the equal protection of the laws.

Tft v. Buffalq, 82

N. Y. 204; Richards v. Rote, 68 Penn. St. 248; Yenges v.
.Dentler,33 Penn. St. 495 [. C. 75 Am. Dec. 616]; Schafer v.
Eneu, 54 Penn. St. 304; Shonk v. Brown, 61 Penn. St. 320;
Biligs v. Dotten, 15 Ill. 218; -fMarsh v. Chesnut, 14 Ill. 223;
Conway v. Cable, 37 IL 82; Maine v. -Doherty, 60 Maine, 504;
Forsterv. Forster,129 Mass. 559.
III. The defects in the assessments involved in this action
were such as could not be legalized, even if the tax had not
been collected. People v. Weamer, -100 U. S. 539, 543, and
cases cited there. Tift v. Buffalo, above cited.
IV. The notice and hearing provided for by c. 345 were not
sufficient to constitute due process of law. Albany City Bank
v. -Maher,9 Fed. Rep. 884. The so-called assessment made by
the assessors was beyond their jurisdiction, being made after
the time that the law permitted them to make assessments.
estfalZl v. Preston, 49 N. Y. 349 ; Clark v. _3orton, 49 N. Y.
243. It lacked all the elements of a valid tax. There was no
apportionment, but an arbitrary assessment of a fixed sum
without reference to actual value. It could not, therefore, be
legalized. Denny v. Mattoon, 2 Allen, 361 [S. C. 79 Am.
Dec. 784] ; .fayor, &c.,v. Horn, .26 Maryland, 194; Butler v.
Saginaw, 26 Mich. 22; Tift v. Bufao, 82 . Y. 204, 210, 211.
The adjudications in regard to property taken under the
power of eminent domain, do not sustain the court below
in its holding that the heaping provided for by c. 345 of
1883, was sufficient. (a) The Federal courts have generally
held that, in such cases, compensation must be paid before the
property can be taken. See Bonaparte v. Camden & Amboy
Rdilroad; lBald..205; Avery v. Fox, I Abb. U. S. 246;
Pryzbylowicz v. iltissouri River Rairoad, 17 Fed. Rep. 492;
Burns v. Iultnomah Railroad, 15 Fed Rep. 177 ; People v.
Hayden, 6 Hill, 359, 361; Sage v. Brooklyn, 89 N. Y. 189;
Rensselaer & SaratogaRailroadv. Davis,43 N. Y. 137; In re
-New York Central Railroad, 66 N. Y. 407; In re Eureka
Warehouse Co., 96 N. Y. 42. (b) Laws authorizing the exercise of eminent domain, without providing for compensation,
have been repeatedly held to be unconstitutional and void.

WILLIAMS v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.

161

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Thatcher v. .DartmouthBridge Co., 18 Pick. 501; In re
rAft.
Washington Road, 35 N. H. 134; .Boston & Lowell Railroad
v. Saler, & Lowell Railroad, 2 Gray, 1; Watson v. Tustees,
21 Ohio St. 667; Beckwith v. Beekwith, 22 Ohio St. 180;
Nichols v. Somerset, &c., Railroad,43 Maine, 356; Prichard
v. Atkinson, 3 N. H. 335.
V. The attempted legalization by c. 345 of 1883 was void,
because in violation of the restriction in § 5219 of the Revised
Statutes, that the taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is
assessed upon 6ther moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of the state. People v. Assessors, 2 Hun, 583;
Williams v. Weaver, 75 N. Y. 30 ; Stanley v. Supervisors, 15
Fed. Rep. 483.
VI. While we insist that all the assessments were void, and
were not cured by the law of 1883, there are some, to which
there are still other objections than those stated above, and as
to which it cannot well be claimed that there is any defence.
Assessments to the "estate" of a deceased person are wholly
void, as has been held by the Court of Appeals of this state.
T 'owbridge v. Horan, 78 N. Y. 439. Several of the shareholders assessed in the years 1876, 1877, and 1878, died before
the passage of the act of 1883. As to these deceased persons,
the provision for notice in § 2 and 3 of the laws of 1883, are
entirely inadequate. None but the persons themselves, if living, could swear as to their financial condition at the time of
the respective assessients. Ko notice to their personal representatives is provided.
VII. There is no doubt that this action can be maintained,
if the assessment was illegal, from whatever cause. -Newman
v. Supervisors, 45 N. Y. 676; rational Bank of Chemung v.
Elmira, 53 N. Y. 49; Rorn v. Town of .New Lots, 83 N. Y.
100.
VUII. The facts set up in the third paragraph of the
answer constitute no defence. The plaintiff could .not so
ratify and acknowledge the validity of an unconstitutional
law as to make it constitutional and valid. Kor is there any
basis for claiming an equitable estoppel if such there could be.
The principles of estoppel and waiver have no application to
VOL. Cxnx-11-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the facts in this case. All the familiar elements constituting
estoppel. in pais are wanting. (1) There was no admission
by plaintiff inconsistent with this claim. Ihs claim -as' that
all the assessments were void, and that the money illegally
collected should be refunded. There was no inconsistency
therefore in his taking, a part. (2) There was no action on
the part of the defendant, induced by any act or admission of
plaintiff which will injure it. If our contention is correct, the
defendant was legally liable to pay us the whole amount
of our claim; it certainly suffered no injury by paying a part,
for which it conceded its liability. Nor is there any ground
for claiming a waiver. A plaintiff, by the receipt of the
amount of a judgment in his favor, is not precluded from
appealing on the ground that the recovery should have been
greater. Urited States v. Daskiel, 3 Wall. 688; Imn'y v.
Palmer, 107 U. S. 3; Clowe8 v. .Dickenson, 8 Cow. 328; Rigbie v. WVetlake, 14 N. Y. 281; Benkard v. Bcock, 2 Robertson (N. Y.) 1,75; Barker v. Wdte, 58 N. Y. 204.
Xr. W7 eeer . Peckham and Xr. SimonmT ._osendale for
defendant in error.
MR. JUsTroE FIELD, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It may be conceded that the assessment of the shares of the
National Albany Exchange Bank was in some instances higher
in proportion to their actual value than the assessment of some
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens was
to its actual value; but, as seen from the findings, such discrimination was not designed by the assessors. It is so stipulated by the parties. Whatever discrimination in such instances may have existed arose from the difficulty of devising
any other mode than the one adopted, which would work out
greater equality and uniformity in the valuation of different
kinds of moneyed capital. There was no proof as to the
assessment of any moneyed capital, ex6.ept- shares of other
banks, state or. national. The value of shares in some of
these banks was higher, in some lower, than that of the

WILLIAMS v. SUPERVISORS OF'ALBANY.

"163

Opinion of the Court.

shares of the National Albany Exchange Bank. The method
adopted of assessing all shares at par was generally satisfactory to the owners of the national bank stock in the*city of
Albany, with the exception of a few stockholders in the
National Albany Exchange Bank. Considering the nature of
the~property, and the frequent fluctuations in value to which
it is subject;. the method applied to all banks, state and
national, came, as we said in the recent. case of Stanley
against the same defendants, as nearly as practicable to securing between them equality and uniformity of taxation. All
the banks, state and national, being thus placed, as respects
taxation, upon the same footing, the method could not be
considered as. adopted in hostility to any of them. If itrsometimes led to undervaluation of the shares of national banks,'
the holders could not complain. If it sometimes led to overvaluation of the shares, the aggrieved party could obtain
relief by pursuing the course pointed out- by the statute for
its correction, unless, as asserted, this course was not, in the
years mentioned, available to the plaintiff and the stockholders, whose interests were assigned to him, becadse their
names were not placed on the assessment-roll until the time
provided by law for revising and correcting the assessment
had passed. If that course was thus cut off, they could have
resorted to a court of equity to enjoin the collection of the
illegal excess upon payment or tender of the amount due
upoii what they admitted to be a just valuation. We have
considered this subject so fully in the recent caqe of Stanley
against these same defendants, 121 U. S.. 535, to which we
refer, that it is unnecessary to pursue it further.
The irregularities in the assessment for the years 1876, 1877,
and 1.78, in that no entry of any assessment of the shares of
the plaintiff and of the stockholders whose claims were assigned to him was made .on the assessment-roll of those years
until .after the' first of September, and after the time for'revising and correcting the assessment had passed, and in the
d efct of the oath annexed in its averment as to the estimate
of the value of real estate, were, in our judgment, cured by
the validating act 6f April 30, 1-883.. The'power of taxa-

164:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tion vested in the legislature is, with some exceptions, limited
only by constitutional provisions designed to secure equality
and uniformity in- the assessment. The mode in which the
property shall be appraised, by whom its appraisement shall
be made, the time within which it shall be done, what certificate of their action shall be furnished, and when parties shall
be heard for the correction of errors, are matters resting in its
discretion. Where directions upon the subject might originally have- been dispensed with, or executed -at another time,
irregularities arising from neglect to follow them may be remedied by the legislature, unless its action in this respect is restrained by constitutional provisions prohibiting retrospective
legislation. It is only necessary, therefore, in any case to
consider whether the assessment could have been ordered
originally without requiring the proceedings, the omission or
defective performance of which is complained of, or without
requiring them within the time designated. If they were not
essential to any valid assessment, and therefore might have
been omitted or performed at another time, their omission or
defective performance. may be cured by the same authority
'which directed them, provided, always, that intervening rights
are not impaired. Such is the conclusion of numerous adjudications by the state courts upon the effect of curative acts,
and of this court in ffattngy . District of Columbia, 97
U. S. 687, 090. Bart v. Henderson, 17 Iv.ich. 218; ffusselman,
v. Loganiport, 29 Ind. 533; Grim v. TVeissenberg School District, 51 Penn. St. 433. The completion of the-assessment-roll
in the case at bar before the first of September in the years
mentioned, and the form of the oath annexed, were not so
vital to the assessment itself as necessarily to render the defect.-arising from a later return or a deficient oath incurable.
The completion of the assessment-roll by that date was
deemed essential by the court below, because the law required
the assessors forthwith to cause notices to-be published in
three of the public newspapers of the city for twenty days,
specifying a day at their expiration when they would meet and
remain in session five days for the purpose of reviewing their
assessments on the application of any one aggrieved. The re

WILLIAMS v. SUPERVISORS OF ALBANY.
Opinion of the Court.

quirement was designed' to afford tax-payers whose names
were on the roll an opportunity for the examination and correction of the assessment of their property. The assessment
could not stand if they were deprived of that opportunity.
But it is not perceived why it might not be legalized and confirmed by the legislature giving to them such' opportunity
aftei the time originally designated had expired. No just
right of the tax-payer would thereby be defeated.
The assessment of the shares of the bank for the years
1876, 1877, and 1878 was held invalid for the reason stated,
under the laws of the state; although from what we have said
it would not be open to objection as being in conflict with the
act of Congress. It is only in view of its invalidity for want
of conformity to the laws of the state that the validating act
becomes of importance. That act declares that the assessments contained in the assessment-rolls of the wards of the
city for the above years are "in all things legalized and confirmed, subject to the rights of the shareholders or their personal representatives, in national or state banks which-were
located in said city, during those years, and the assessments
against whom by reason of their ownership of such shares
were collected by process of law, to claim .adeduction from
or cancellation of such assessments." It required the assessors, within ten days after the passage of the act, to publish
in the official papers of the city daily for three weeks, Sundays and holidays excepted, a notice to the stockholders that
the assessors would be in attendance at their office in Albany,
for three weeks subsequent to the last day of publication of
the notice, aid hear applications for the deduction from the
assessments of any amount which such stockholders or their
personal representatives would have been entitled to deduct
under the law as it existed in the year when the assessment
was placed on the roll, had such application then been made.
And the act provided that such shareholders, or any one representing them, might appear before the assessors and apply
for a deduction or cancellation of the assessment upon any
ground which would have been a legal one when the assessment was placed on the roll; and the assessors vere empow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the-Court.

ered to grant such reduction or cancellation as the shareholders would have been legally entitled to at that time.
The act, also, made provision foi the collection and payment
to the parties of the amount found to be due them with interest.
It is difficult to see on what plausible ground the validity of
this act can be questioned, unless the power of the legislature
to cure by legislative act any irregularities of the assessment
be denied. Every right of the shareholder who had paid taxes
on the assessment, and it does not appear that there were any
others, was secured. He could present any claim he might
have for a reduction or cancellation of the assessment, and be
heard respecting it. He occupied the same position he would
have held, if the assessment of his shares had been placed on
the assessment-roll within the time required -that is, before
the first of September -and the oath annexed had been without any fault or omission in its averments. The plaintiff and
the other shareholders were bound, as owners of property, to
bear their just proportion of the public burdens, and if, in ascertaining what that proportion should be, some steps in the
proceeding were omitted which invalidated the assessment, it
would seem but just that the defect should be cured, if practicable, and the shareholders not be allowed to escape taxation,
and thus entail the burden they should bear upon other taxpayers of the community.
After'the validating act was passed, the plaintiff applied to
the "pssessors for the cancellation of the assessment for the
years 1876, 1811, and 1878, or a reduction from the amount
assessed. The assessors refused to cancel the assessments, but
they allowed a reduction from them to the amount of $2071.66,
which was paid to him.
It follows from the views expressed that
De judgment of the Cirouit Court must be afirme ; and it
is so ordered.

