OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

HANNA v. VfAAS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF M1ICHIGAN.
Argued April 28, 1887. -Decided

May 23, 1887.

No question is presented for the decision of this court by a bill of exceptions which does not state any rulings in matter of law, or any exceptions to such rulings, otherwise than by referring to an exhibit annexed,
containing the whole charge of the court to the jury, and notes of a conversation ensuing between the judge and the counsel of both parties as
to the meaning and effect of the charge, interspersed with remarks of
either counsel that he excepted to that part of the charge which bore
upon a certain subject, or to the refusal of the court to charge as orally
requested in the course of that conversation.
When a bill of exceptions is so framed as not to present any question
of law in a form to be revised by this court, the judgment must be
affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr E. . Estep for plaintiff in error.
Yr' Daniel H. Bagl for defendants in error. Xr A. T
Britton, Xr A. B. Browne and 2& W H. &rntkwere with
him on the brief.
]MR. JUSTCE GRAX delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by Maas and others, citizens of
-Marquette in the State of Michigan, against Hanna and
others, commission merchants and citizens of Cleveland in
the State of Ohio, upon this contract, signed by the defendants and addressed to the plaintiffs' agent
"Marquette, Mich., August 22, 1874. We will advance
$25.25 per ton on 500 to 1000 tons" (increased by supplemental
contract to 2000 tons) "Michigan charcoal pig iron, when
delivered at Cleveland."
At the trial the plaintiffs introduced evidence tending to
prove that such iron, on which the plaintiffs had advanced
$20 a ton, was delivered by them to the defendants on the
faith of this contract, and was afterwards sold by the defend-

HANNA v. 3MAAS.
Opinion of the Court.

ants.for less than the amount of the plaintiffs' advances, and
the plaintiffs recovered a verdict for the difference, amounting to $9120.52. A motion by the defendants for a new
trial was overruled, and judgment entered on the verdict,
and the defendants sued out this writ of error.
The bill of exceptions signed by the presiding judge begins
by stating that the parties respectively introduced the evidence shown in an exhibit annexed and marked A. That
exhibit appears to contain a report of all the evidence introduced at the trial, with minutes that certain parts of it were
objected to. The bill of exceptions then, without even stating that exceptions were taken to the admission of any of
the evidence, proceeds and concludes as follows
"And neither party having offered or given further testimony, the cause was argued by counsel, and thereupon
the court charged the jury as set forth in the annexed
exhibit, marked 'Charge,' and refused to charge as therein
set forth, to which charges and refusals to charge the defendant at the time excepted, as set forth in said exhibit, and
thereupon, after verdict and within the time fixed by the
court, the defendant filed his motion for - new trial, which
was heard and overruled by the court, to which ruling the
defendant at the time excepted, and the court entered judgment upon the said verdict. Thereupon the defendant requested the court to sign and seal this his bill of exceptions,
which is here accordingly done within the time limited by
the court."
The exhibit marked "Charge," in the transcript sent up to
this court, consists of three closely printed pages setting forth
the whole charge of the judge, followed by as many more
pages contaning what appear to be a stenographer's notes
of a conversation ensuing between the judge and the counsel
of both parties as to the meaning and effect of the charge
already given to the jury, but interspersed with remarks of
to
desired to note " or "1
either counsel that he "excepted," or "1
preserve " an exception to that part of the charge which
bore upon a certain subject, or to the refusal of the court to
charge as orally requested by counsel in the course of that
conversation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The object of a bill of exceptions is to put on record, rulings and instructions in matter of law which could not otherwise be a subject of revision in a court of error. *The excepting
party, in order to entitle himself to such revision, must not
only allege exceptions at the trial or hearing, but he must
afterwarda draw up and -hand to the presiding judge those
exceptions in writing, stating distinctly and specifically the
rulings or instructions of winch he complains. 2 Inst. 426,
Steph. Pl. (1st Am. Ed.) 111, Turnerv Yates, 16 How 14, 29,
Insurance Co. v -Sea, 21 Wall. 158. If the exceptions so
drawn up by the party in writing are found to be true, they
are sealed, or often, in the practice of the federal courts,
merely signed by the presiding judge. Herbert v. Butler, 97
U. S. 319, Rev Stat. ยง 953. Minutes of the judge or clerk,
or notes of a stenographer, cannot take the place of a bill of
exceptions, but are only memoranda by the aid of winch one
may afterwards be drawn up. Pomeroy v Bank of Indiana,
1 Wall. 592, Thomson v RBggs, 5 Wall. 663, Young v.
.artsn, 8 Wall. 354, Insuance Co. v Lanwr, 95 U S. 171.
The exceptions must be drawn up and settled in proper form
in the court below, and cannot be amended or redrafted m
this court. Stimpson v. West Chester Railway Co., 3 How
553.
This bill of exceptions has been framed and allowed in
disregard of the settled rules of law upon the subject. No
ruling upon evidence is open to revision, because none appears
to have been excepted to, Scott v
loyd, 9 Pet. 418, 442,
and the overruling of the motion for a new trial is not a subject of exception. Railway Co. v Heck, 102 U. S. 120. The
bill of exceptions, instead of stating distinctly, as required by
law and by the 4th Rule of this court, those matters of law
m the charge which are excepted to, and those only, does
not contain any part of the charge, or any exception to it,
and undertakes to supply the want by referring to exhibits
annexed, containing all the evidence introduced at the trial,
the whole charge to the jury, and notes of a desultory conversation which followed between the- judge and the counsel on
both sides, leaving it to'this court to pick out from those

GIBSON v. SIIUFELDT.
Statement of the Case.

notes, if possible, a sufficient statement of some ruling in
matter of law
But to assume to do that would be to taske upon ourselves
the duty of drawing up a proper bill of exceptions, a duty
which belonged to the excepting prty, and should have been
performed before sung out the writ of- error. This we are
not authorized to do. Our duty and authority are limited to
determining the validity of exceptions duly framed and presented.
The defendants having failed to reduce ther exceptions
to such a form that this court can pass upon them, the judgment must be affirmed. Suydam v WMlliamson, 20 How
427, Inrance Co. v. Sea, above cited.
Judgment affirmed.

GIBSON v. SEIFELDT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGIWIA.
Submitted April 11, 1887.-Decided May 23, 1887.

In a suit in equity brought in'he Circuit Court by two or more persons on
several and distinctfdemands, the defendant can appeal to this court as to
those plaintiffs only to each of whom more than $5000 is decreed.
A debtor having made an assignment of ins property to a trustee to secure
a preferred debt of more than $5000, other creditors filed a bill in equity
in the Circuit Court against the debtor, the trustee, and the preferred
creditor; the defendants denied the allegations of the bill, but asked
no affirmative relief, and the decree adjudged the assignment to be
fraudulent and void as against the plaintiffs, and ordered the property to
be distributed among them. Held, that this court had no 3urisdiction of
an appeal by the defendants, except as to those plaintiffs who had recovered more than $5000 each.

Tis was a motion to dismiss an appeal in equity The material facts, appearing by the record, were as follows Jenkins
made a deed of assignment of a large amount of property to
Watkins, in timst-to sell it and to apply the proceeds to the

