OCTOBER TERM, 1,86.
Opinion of the Court.

PARSONS v. ROBINSON.*
APPEAL FROm THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE E STERN DISTRICT OF PENtNSYLVANIA,
Submitted April 27,1887. -Decided

May 23,1887.

Proceedings were commenced to foreclose a railroad mortgage in which
the trustee of the mortgage, the. railroad company, and'others were
respondents, and one bondholder originally, and another by intervention,
were complainants. A decree was entered that the complainants were
entitled to have a sale of the mortgaged property upon failure of the
company to pay an amount to be fixed by reference to a master within a
time to be named by the court, and an order of reference was made. The
master reported, and a decree of foreclosure was entered in which the
trustee was directed to sell the mortgaged property, "at such time and
place and in such manner as the court may hereafter determine:" and a
reference was ordered to a master to report the extent and amount of
the prior liens on the mortgaged property, "full and detailed statements" of the property "subject to the lien of said general mortgage,"
and "what liens, if any, are upon the several properties" of the railroad
company, "junior to said general mortgage and the order of their priority." Held, that this was not a final decree, which terminated the litigation between the parties on 'the merits of the case, and t]at the appeil
must be dismissed.
MoTiow to dismiss. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
Xf. 1?chard C. Da e and frA.Samu Dicbon for the
motion.

r.D. H. Cmzerlain and XAr. F. A. Lewi8 opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a motion to dismiss an appeal, because the decree
appealed from is not a final decree, and also because the value
of the matter in dispute does not exceed five thousand dollars.
The suit ws originally brought by William M. Robinson, the
holder of general mortgage bonds, so called, of the Philadelphia

PARSQNS v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

and Reading Railroad Company, to the amount of $5000, to
foreclose the mortgage given for their security. Afterwards
Edwin Parsons, the present appellant and the holder ot'.
$100,000 of the same issue of bonds, intervened by leave of
the court, and became a party complainant in the suit.
On the 6th .of October, 1886, a decree was entered, finding
that the railr~ad company had made default in the payment
of the interest, and that the complainants were "entitled to
have a sale of the mortgaged premises, in accordance with the
provisions in said mortgage contained, upon the failure of the
defendant to pay, within a time to 'be hereafter fix&d, the
amount of the bonds and coupons now outstanding entftled'to
the security of the said. mortgage," and for the purpose of
finding this amount the cause was referred to masters to ascertain and report "the amount due upon the bonds, principal and
interest, which are entitled to the security of said mortgage,;
and also to report what liens, if any, are prior to the bonds* or
to any and what bonds secured by said mortgage; and also to
ascertain and report the extent of the lien of the said mortgage
upon the railroad, branches, leasehold interests, franchises, and
othe property of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company, including not only the property owned by said company
at .the time of the execution of said mortgage, but also that'
which has since been acquired."
Afterwards the masters filed their report, setting forth,. 1,
the amount due on the bonds entitled to the security of the
general mortgage; 2, the liens which were prior to that mortgage; and, 3, by general descripti6n, the property covered.
Exceptions were taken to this report, and, on consideration
thereof, the court ordered, March 1, 1887, that the company
pay, on or before June 7,1887, the amount found due by the
masters for interest, and also $1,694,250 for " general mortgage
scrip," with interest from July 1, 1886, and, indefault thereof,
"that the defendants, The Philadelphia and Reading Railroad
Company, Samuel W. Bell, trustee, The Pennsylvania Company
for Insurances on Lives and Granting Annuities, trustees, and all
persons claiming under them, be absolutely barred and foreclosed of and from all right and equity of redemption in and to
VoI. cxxjx-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
,Opinion of the Court..

the premises in said mortgage described ; and, in default of such
payment as aforesaid, the court do further order and decree the
defendant, The Fidelity Insurance, Trust and Safe Deposit Company, trustee in said mortgage mentioned, to sell the railroads,
estates, real and personal, corporate rights and franchises and
premises in said mortgage mentioned, at such time and place
and in such manner as the court may hereafter determine ;
and it -is further ordered, that this cause be referred to the
masters heretofore appointed, with instructions to report to the
court, on or before the 10th day of July, 188, the extent and
amount of all liens prior to said general mortgage upon the
properties thereby covered, and also to report to the court full
and detailed statements of the several properties, real and personal ,of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company sub-.
ject to the lien of said general mortgage, in accordance with
the principles stated in the report of the masters heretofore
fied, and also to report what liens, if any, are upon the several
properties of the said Philadelljhia and Reading Railroad Company and the Philadelphia and Reading Iron and Coal Company junior to said general mortgage, and the order of their
priority; and it is further ordered, that said masters do prepare
and report t6 the court an order of sale of. said mortgaged properties, and form of advertisement therefor."
From that decree this appeal was taken by Parsons alone,
and the first question *ewill consider is, whether it is a fnal
decree Wvithin the meaning of that term as used in th6 statutes
-which provide for appeals to this court from the final decrees
of the Circuit Courts in cases of equity jurisdiction.
That "a decree of sale in a foreclosure suit, which settles all
the rights of the parties and leaves nothing to be done. but to
make the sale and pay out th6 proceeds, is a final decree for
the purposes of an appeal" is no longer an open question in
this court. Grant v. Phrnix Invsuraee Co., 106 U. S. 429,
431, and cases there cited. , Here, however, there is as yet no
decree of sale. As was said in Railroad Company v. Swasey,
23 Wall. 405, 409, "to justify such a sale, without consent, the
amount due upon the debt must be determined and the property to be sold ascertained and defined. Until this is done, the

PARSONS v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

rights of the parties are not all settled. Final process for the
collection of money cannot issue until the amount to be paid
or collected by the process, if not paid, has been adjudged,
So, too, process for the sale of specific property cannot issue
until the property to be sold has been judicially identified."
In this case the amount due upon the debt has been ascertained and its payment by a day certain ordered, but "the extent. and amount of all liens prior to said general mortgage upon the property thereby covered" have not been determined, and "full and detailed statements of the several properties... subject to the lien of said general mortgage" have
not been furnished to the court. Neither has it been determined what "the order of sale of said mortgage properties"
shall contain, nor what shall be the "form of the advertisement therefor." The court has, indeed, declared its intentioii of hereafter directing such a sale, but, as it requires
further information to enable it to act understandingly in that
behalf, has sent the case again to the masters with instructions
to inquire and report upon the matters in doubt. All this is
necessarily implied from the provision that the sale is to be
"at such time and place and in such manner as the court niay
hereafter determine," coupled, as it is, with directions to the,
masters to "prepare and report to the court an order of sale
of said mortgaged properties and form of advertisement
therefor," together with a statament in detail of the property
to be sold and its exact condition as to prior incumbrances.
No order of sale can issue on this decree until these questions
are settled and the court has given its authority in that behalf.
Further judicial action must be had by the court before its
minist.erial officers can proceed to carry the decree into execution. Until the particulars of the prior liens are ascertained,
the property identified, 'and the time, place, and manner of
sale determined, the rights of the parties will not have been
sufficiently settled to make it proper, in the opinion of the
court, as expressed in its present decree, to direct that the
sale go on. All these matters still remain for adjudication,
and the decree, as it,now stands, has not "terminated the litigation between the parties on the merits of the case." Conse-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

quently it is not final. Bostwick v. Brinkerhqof, 106 U. S. 3,
and, the cases there cited.
As the motion to dismiss must be granted on this ground, it
is unnecessary to consider whether the amount in dispute is
sufficient to give us jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

BARTRAM u. ROBERTSON.
ERMOR TO THE omourr COURT OP THE INITED STATES FO
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF ,EW YORK.
Argued April 29,1887. -Decided

THE

May 23, 1887.

The provisions in the treaty of friendship, commerce, and navigation with
the king of Denmark, concluded April 26, 1826, and revived by the convention of April 11, 1857, do not, by their own operation, authorize the
importation, duty free from Danish dominions, of articles made duty,
free by the convention of January 30, 1875, with the king of the Hawaiian Islands, but otherwise subject to duty by a law of Congress, the king
of Denmark not having allowed to the United States the compensation for
the concession which was allowed by the king of the Hawaiian Islands.

THis was an action to recover back duties alleged to have
been illegally exacted by the collector at New York. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Y.

H

. Tre6ne

in and Xr. A. J. Willard for plaintiffs in

error.
"Mtr. Solicitor OeneraZ for defendant in error.
Mr. JusTicE FIELD delivered the opinion or the court.

The plaintiffs are merchants doing business in the city'of
New York, and in March and April, 1882, they made four importations of brown and unrefined sugars and'molasses, the
produce and manufacture of the Island of St. Croix, which is

