WHITSITT v. UNION DEPOT.
Counsel for Parties.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinibn of the court.

This judgment* is affirmed on the authority of Vicksburg
and .feridian Railroad Co. v. Puna/m, 118 U. S. 545; Nudd
v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, 441; Indianapolis, c., Railroad.v.
Horst, 93 U. S. 291, 299. A state constitution cannot, any
more thahi a state statute, prohibit the judges of the courts of
the United States from charging juries with regard to matters
of fact.
Afflrned.

WIITSITT v. '1TION DEPOT AND RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED-STATE4 FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted My 11, 1887.-Decided May 27,1887.
On the 6th of October, 1880, a decree was entered in a Circuit Court of the
United States dismissing a bill brought to quiet title. Complainant appealed, and the appeal was dismissed at October Term, 1880, it not ap.
pearing that the matter in dispute exceeded $5000. In the Circuit Court
W. then suggested the complainant/s death, appeared as sole heir and
devisee, filed affidavits to .show that the amount in dispute exceeded
$5000, and took another appeal August 30, 1881, Which appeal was docketed here September 24, 1881, and was dismissed April 5, 1884, for want
of prosecution. Another appeal .was allowed by the Circuit Court in
September, 1884, and citation was issued anl served, and the case was
docketed here again. Hed: That the decree appealed from being rendered in 1880, an appeal from it taken in 1884 Was too late.

BILL in equity. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinioi" of the court.
Ar. E. T. WTells for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
MM. CHIEF

JUSTICE

WiA.M delivered the opinion of

the court.

This was a suit in equity begun by Richard E. Whitsitt,
then in life, and James Meskew, to quiet their possession of
certain lots in Denver, Colorado., A decree was entered October 6, 1880, dismissing the bill. From that decree the complainants took an appeal to this court, which was dismissed at
October Term, 1880, because it did not appear that the value
of the matter in dispute exceeded $5000. T-itsitt v. Rail,'oad Company, 103 U. S.. '770. On the 20th of July, 1881,
Emma C. Whitsitt appeared in the Circuit Court, and, suggesting the death of Richard E. Whitsitt, asked to be'made a.party
to the suit in his stead, as sole heir and devisee. An order to
this effect was made, and she, on. the 30th of August, 1881,
filed in the Circuit Court an affidavit showing that the value
of the matter in dispute did exceed $5000.- On the same day,
she took another appeal, which was docketed in this court
September 24, 1881, and dismissed, under Rule 16, April 5,
184, for want of prosecution. The mandate from this court
under this appeal was fied in the Circuit Court September 9,
1881, and the next day, September 10, Mrs. Whitsitt presented
to the district judge for the District of Colorado another
appeal bond in the suit, which he accepted, and he also signed
a citation that was duly served on the same day. This last
appeal was docketed in this court September 22, 1884. When
the case was reached in its regular order on the docket at the
present term, it was submitted by the appellant on printedbrief, no one appearing for the appellee.
Section 1008 of the Revised Statutes provides that ",no judgment, decree, or order of a circuit 'or district court, in any civil
action, at law or in equity, shall be reviewed in the Supreme
Court on writ of error or appeal, unless the writ of error is
bro'ught, or the appeal is taken, within two years after the
entry, of such judgment, decree, or order: _PovidWe, That
where a party entitled to prosecute a writ of error or take an
appeal is an infant, insane person, or imprisoned, such writ of
error may be prosecuted, or such appeal may be taken, within
two years after the judgment, decree, or order, exclusive of the
term of such disability."

M1AXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
Syllabus.

This decree was rendered October 6, ISSO, and the present
appeal was not taken until September 24, 188-,

nearly four

years afterwards. There is no suggestion of disability such as
would bring the appellant within the proviso. The appeal
should, therefore, be dismissed, Scarborough v. Pargoud, 108
U. S. 567, and it is so ordered.
AppeaZ dismissed.

MAXWELL LAND-GRANT CASE.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNhITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted May 12, 187.-Decided May 27, ISS7.

The court rested its judgment in this case, 121 U. S. 325, not upon the fact
of the grant to Beaubien and Mliranda being an enpresario grant, but
upon the fact that Congress, having confirined it as made to Beaubien
and Miranda, and as reported for confirmation by the Surveyor General
of New Mexico to Congress, without qualification as to its extent, acted
in that respect entirely within its power, and that its action was conclusive upon the court.
The court stated in its former opinion, and repeats now, its conviction that
the grant by Aimijo to Beaubien and Miranda described the boundaries
in such a manner that Congress must have known that the grant so
largely exceeded twenty-two leagues that there could be no question
upon that subject, and it must have decided that the grant should not be
limited by the eleven leagues of the Mexican law.
The court repeats the conviction expressed in its former opinion, with
further reasons in support of it, that Beaubien, in the petition which he
presented against the intrusion of Martiuez, did not refer to his own
grant as being only fifteen or eighteen leagues, but to the grant under
which Martinez was claiming.
The court assumes that references in the petition to newly discovered and
material evidence touching the fraudulent character of the grant are addressed to the Secretary of the Interior and the Attorney General, as the
rehearing in this court can be had only on the record before the court, as
it came from the Circuit Court.
The court remains entirely satisfied that the grant, as confirmed by Congress, is a valid grant; that the survey and the patent issued upon it, as
_7ell as the original grant by Armijo, are free.from fraud on the part of
the grantees or those claiming under them; and that the decision could
be no other than that made in the Circuit Court, and afllrmed by this
court.

