CHICAGO, &c.,

RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Syllabus.

Such being our view of the case, it is unnecessary to consider any of the .other questions which were referred to the
Court of Claims. Neither do we decide what the precise form
of an order of the President approving the proceedings and
sentence of a court-martial should be; nor that his own signature must be affixed thereto. But we are clearly of opimon,
that it will not be suffiient un'less it is authenticated in a .way
to show otherwise than argumentatively that it is the result
of the judgment of the President himself, and that it is not a,
mere departmental order which might or might not have
attracted his personal attention. The fact that the order was
his own should not be left to inference only.
The judgment of the Court of CMaims is reversed, and the
cause r'ermandedfor further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND KANSAS CITY
RAILROAD v. GUJFFEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Submitted April 4, 1887.-

Decided May 23,1887.

It being now conceded that' the taxes in suit refer not only to the branch
referred to in the former opinion of the court in this cas6, reported
in 120 U. S. 569-575, but to the taxes assessea upon that part of the
main line which extends from Unionville in Putnam County to the
boundary line between Missouri and Iowa, the court now, decides,, oir
an application for a rehearing:
(1) That it is satisfied with the construction which it has already given.
to the statute of the legislature of Missouri of March 21, 1868:
(2) That the statute of that legislature enacted March 24, 1870, as in.
terpreted by the court, ii its application to the main line, does not
impair the obligation of any contract which the St. Joseph & Iowa.
Railroad Company had, by its charter, with the State of Missouri.
The statute of Missouri of March 24, 1870 (Art. 2, c. 37, 57 Wagner's
Statutes of Missouri, 1872) subjecting to taxation railroads acquired by
a foreign corporation by lease, also applies to roads acquired by *such
corporations by purchase.
No question arises in this case under the provision in the charter of the
VOL. cxxu-36

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Petition for Rehearing.
St. Joseph & Iow4 Railroad Company which authorizes it to pledge its
property and franchises to secure an indebtedness incurred in the construction of its road.

THIS waS a petition for a rehearing of the case reported at
120 U. S. 569.
-.. L. I. Ha~field and MAfr. A. W. Mullins on behalf of
the railway company signed and filed the petition, which was*
as follows:
Now at this day comes the plaintiff in error and presents
this its petition, praying for a rehearing in this cause,- and respectfully asks this court to reconsider its opinion; for tbe.sole
reason that the court has mistaken the facts in the case, and
therefore the law declared is inapplicable.
In the beginning of its opinion this court states:
"The judgment which this mait of error brings up for review affirms the liability to taxation, in Missouri, for state and
county purposes, of what was formerly known as tle -Ceutral
North Missouri Branch of thie St. Joseph and -Iowa Railroad,
more recently named the Linneus Branch of the Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company, and now owned
by the Chicago, Burlington and Kansas City Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Missouri."
That is a mistake. By following the reference here given
to the printed record, a self-correcting medium will be found.
[Here follow sundry references to the record by pages and
figures, which are unintelligible without the record.]
"It will thus be seen that the greater part of the line in
controversy in this cause is rnaim line. It will be observed
that the action was brbught, defended and considered by the.
trial court, as one piece of property. At no place in the record
can there be found any objection whatever to the legality of
the organization of the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company, the projection of the branch line, or the construction of
all of it, except as evidenced by the fruitless effort to show a
prior location by another company, of a line running through
the country traversed by the branch line. See pp. 99-115;

CHICAGO, &c., -RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Petition for Reheating.

and as stated, counsel for the state waived the technical objections he had made.
By giving defendant's instruction, number one, p. 115, the
trial court recognized the line as an entirety, equally entitled
to the immunity, provided such immunity could be conveyed
at all. By refusing instruction number two, pp. 115, 116,
that court declared the law to be so that the immunity did
not pass under the deed of May 23, 1871, pp. 32-36, or in
any other manner. It was upon that ground that the case was
appealed to the Supreme Court of Missouri. The theory upon
which the cause was tried was based upon the law laid down
by the Supreme Court of Missouri in State ex rel. St. Joseph d
Iowa Railroad v. Sullivan County, 51 Missouri, 522; Coope'
v. Sullivan County, 65 Missouri, 542; Scotland County v. _ijsou, Iowa & N5ebraska Railroad, 65 Missouri, 123, 135;
Daniels v. St. -Louis, Kansas City & )Yorthern Railroad,62
Missouri, 43; Atlantic & _Pacific Railroad v. St. Louis, 66
Missouri, 228; which was then considered the established
rule of property in this case. In State ex rel. St. Joseph &
Iowa Railroad, and Cooper v. Sullivan County, supra, the
power of direct taxation was invoked and enforced by the
Supreme Court of Missouri, in an amount exceeding principal
and interest, half a million dollaxs in support of this same
branch line whose only right to exist and have those powers
is contained in the charter of the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company. It was not then nor is it now believed by
counsel for plaintiff in error, that the power to cause the levy
and collection of a direct tax from the people, as was done in
those cases, should be considered of any less force and importance than a provision that merely withholds money the people
Pever did have, and which they could not possibly have had
without the construction of the road.
There was no point made by counsel for the state or county,
either in the trial or Supreme Court of Missouri, as to separate existence of the branch line, and it was only when the
opinion of that court was announced that the"views there
enunciated were ever heard of. There never was any separate
organization or management, no divorce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Petitiou for Reheariug.

The Supreme Court of Missouri, in its opinion, however, in
subdivision II, pp. 123-5, takes up the question of the effect
of the sale of the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad, to the Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company, see deed, pp.
32-36, and there announced the doctrine that this plaintiff
in error especially complains of. See assignment of errors,
brief, pp. 25, 26; and which caused the suing out of the writ
of error in this behalf.
The discussion of the branch line question in the brief filed
here by plaintiff in error, pp. 31-40, was merely incidental
to the main question and drawn out by the opinion of the
Supreme Court of :Missouri. But the material question was
the views of the Supreme Court of Missouri, in said sub'division II, printed record, pp. 123-5, supra, and is presented
we think very forcibly in the brief of plaintiff in error, pp.
40-51, inclusive.
If the construction of § 2 of the act of March, 1870 (Session
acts of Missouri, 1870, p. 90), by the Supreme Court of Missouri is coriect, then our whole structure falls of its "own
weight, and our claims are groundless. Upon the other hand,
if the construction of said section by that court is erroneous,
then the judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded.
regardless of the branch line question, as it is impossible to fix
the proper division of the property, if division be necessary, in
the present state of the record, and its condition does not
appear to be the fault of either of the parties as they tried it
in the light that was then before them.
The opinion of this court clearly holds that the main line
and all branches built solely under the provisions of the charter of the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company, shall be
exempt in the hands of the present owner: The record here
shows that there is both main line and branch line in this
particular case, and as it is a fact that more than: two-thirds
of it is main line, it is considered good ground 1dr asking a
rehearing and reconsideration of your opinion. There are five
other counties interestea and in four of them suits are now
pending. Therefore a full discussion and determination of the
true tenor and effect of the act of March 24, 1870, &upra,,by

CHICAGO, &c.," RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Petition for Rehearing.

this court will practically determine all the matters -in controversy; in fact there are agreements in two counties to abide
the decision of this court upon the construction put upon that
section by the Supreme Court of M issouri. A failure therefore, to consider that matter will not only do oTeat and irreparable injury to th6 plaintiff in error by requiring it to pay
that for which it is not liable, but make it necessary to bring
other causes here to obtain the decision of.such question.
It must be that this court was misled as to the facts in the
case, by the language of the Supreme Court of M issour, in
the last two lines of the statement of the case near the bottom
of'p. 122, printed record, thus:
"The taxes in suit were assessed upon this branch road
property."
The record shows a different state of facts. Those words
must have beeii a fragment of some memorandum from some
part of the case having reference to the branch line.
Your petitioner also desires to call attention to the language
of this court, at the beginning of the last paragraph on p. 2 of
your opinion.
"As perhaps every railroad company, organized under the
laws of the state prior to the adoption of the constitution *of
1865, had general authority to construct branch roads," etc.
This matter is discussed at p. 34, brief of plaintiff in error.
Fe* companies had general power to build branches; in most
cases the charter contained the points of interse6tion with the
main line and the names of the principal points on the proposed branch. Certainly unless the general direction of a line
were given and at least one terminal point fixed, it -would
have been impracticable to have exercised the right of eminent domain or made any record authorized by any known
law touching the existence of a previously undescribed -branch
line.
It was this defect that was sought to be eliminated by the
act of March 21, 1868, in the nature of a general amendment
to the charter of
"Any railroad company in this state authorized by law to
build branches,"

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Brief for Defendant in Error.

And was fully sifstained in the cases against, Sullivan
County, su ia, and such legislation is fully sustained by the
cases cited, pp. 29, 30, brief of plaintiff in error.
Prior to the adoption of the constitution of Missouri of
1875, a corporation could have been organized with millions
of dollars capital at an expense of not more than five dollars;
assuredly the -resolution to build the branch line, including
authentication, cost as much as that. If- it brought such corporations under the provisions of the general statutes governing railroads it was a'work of supererogation.
It was the resolution of the Board of Directors of the main
line, their will that gave life to the branch line, all the power
was in the parent company, no new stock is provided for; the
law contained in the charter governs, or the -Bran~h Aid Act
of M1arch 21, 1868, is a nullity. It cannot be taken up piecemeal..
Upon no theory would persons be permitted to vote for
directors and officers of a corporation other than that they
were stockholders in such corporation..
It would be competent and.proper to construct the main
line in divisions, making contracts anl fixing the liabilities of
each separately, and in that way secure stock subscriptions
and other aid that could not be obtained in any other way,
and it would be a matter of no concern to any one but those
directly interested. The state offered inducements to secure a
railroad and that is all it expected or could wish.
Wherefore and for the reasons given the plaintiff in error
asks this court to grant it a rehearing in this cause, or that
the opinion be reconsidered, to the end that full and final justice be done in the premises. Hereby giving present assent
to such terms as the court may prescribe with reference to the
cost to this time.
.Xr. B. G. Boone, Attorney General of Missouri, and XAr.
8. P. fuston, on behalf of the defendant in error, applied for
leave to file a brief on the petition for a rehearing, which
was granted on the, 11th April,- 1877. They thereupon filed
the following brief in reply.

CHICAGO, &c., "RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Brief for Defendant in Error.

I. The statement made in the petition for a reheaiing
herein, that the question as to the separate existence of the
branch line was not made in the trial court or Supreme Court
of the State of Missouri, is, to characterize it mildly, the
grossest error. It was made all along the line in'all the.
courts, and in proof thereof, defendant in error files herewith
a copy of his brief in this case, as filed in the Supreme Court
of Missouri, and refers to subdivision II, commencing on
p. 7. The petitioner is also, in equal error when he says that"
suits are pending in other counties to abide the construction
by this court of the act of 24th of March, 1870. Cases are
pending in such courts, and are to abide the result in this
court, but as the road taxed in those counties is all branck
line, the decision of this case on the point made is equally
decisive. Again, he is in error when he states .that "the
greater part of the line in controversy" is main line, built by
the St. Joseph and Iowa. The St. Joseph and Iowa company
never built a foot of road, main or branck. After it sold out
to the Burlington and Southwestern, that company built into
the state of Missouri to 'Unionville, a distance of seven miles,
and there formed a connection with this branch. It was all
built by the Burlington and Southwestern, and this spur.from
Unionville to the state line was called main line by that company to distinguish it from the branch line which commenced
at Unionville and ran south through a large part of the state.
There has never been anywhere in the state any main line
constructed other than this seven miles, and it was not constructed by the St. Joseph and Iowa, but by the Burlington
and Southwestern. Again, if this company claims that a few
miles of road which has been assessed as an entirety with
other roads not exempt, is exempt from taxation, how can the
courts apportion the assessment? This'would be virtually to
reassess the property. They should apply to the state board
for the assessment of railroads, and have it either omitted, or,
if assessed, assessed separately, or at least the burden is on
them in a suit for taxes to make clear the value of the portion exempt. There is not a scintilla of testimony on this
subject offered by plaintiff in error, but it asks the.court to

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Brief for Defendant in Error.

presume equal valu6 per mile, without regard to station
houses, turn-outs, &c. There is nothing on the entire record
by which the trial court could determine what part of the tax
levied on any particular mile or road, is levied on it as an
entirety, and if plaintiff in error claimed any of it was levied
on a part of the entirety claimed to be exempt, it should have
made it plain, so that the court could' have severed it. No
declaration of law to this effect was asked, no claim of this
character made till after the decision or the case in this court,
when, for the first time, plaintiff in error invokes this claim,
in order to procure a rehearing of this case.
I. But should this court conclude that the point decided
does not cover the little spur from the state line to Unionville,
facetiously called "main line," the defendant in error insists
that the Burlington and Southwestern Company in availing itself of the act of March. 24, 1870, to purchase a railroad
created by the legislature of Missouri, agreed to and did renounce all claim to an immunity from taxation. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410; Bank qf
-Augustav. Earle, 13 Pet. 519 ; Cooper ]'f'g
Co. v. Ferguson,
113 U. S. '727.
III. The St. Joseph and Iowa could only sell or mortgage an immunity from taxation when clearly authorized by
the legislature. In the charter the only authority was to
mortgage the "property and franchise." This did not include
immunity from taxation. .Morgan v. Louisiana,93 U. S.217,
223; Louisville & -Nashville Railroad v. Palmes, 109 U. S.
244; .Memphis Railroad v. Commissioneir, 112 U. S. 609';
pfemy
his & Little Bock Railroad v. Berry, 41 Ark. 436;
State v. Sherman, 22 Ohio St. 411.
If there was no legislative authority to mortgage the immunity, then the mortgage made by the Burlington and Southwestern Company, on the entire line, did not pass the immunity, and the. foreclosure of the mortgage could not pass it.
Then Elijah Smith did not succeed to the immunity by virtue
of the master's deeds under foreclosure. See authorities cited
in former brief.

CHICAGO, &c., RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Opinion of the Court.

IV. The St. Joseph and Iowa Company could not purchase and thus destroy the property and franchise of the
N. M. Central Company, which was subject to taxation and
the first to occupy the ground and 'then elect to construct a
road under a charter with. exemptions. See authorities in
former brief in this case by defendant in error.
V. After the adoption of the constitution of 1865, the legThat
islature could not authorize a sae of this exemption
an
with
a
new
corporation
would be equivalent to creating.
exemption then prohibited by law. It would be an evasion of
the spirit and intention of the organic law. See cases cited in
original brief, filed in this case under subdivision IV.
MR. TusTicE HALN

delivered the opinio4 of the .ourt.

The opinion heretofore delivered in this case is reported in
120 iT. S. 569. We are now asked by the plaintiff in error to
grant a rehearing; chiefly, upon the ground that this court
assumed that the only question necessary to be determined
was as to "the liability to taxation, in Missodri, for state and
county purposes, of what was formerly known as the Central
North Missouri Branch of the St, Joseph and Iowa Railroad,
more recently named the Linneus Branch of the Burlington
and Southwestern Iailway Company, and now owned by the
Chicago, Burlington and Kansas City. "Railroad Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of Missouri." The
property, upon which the assessment in question was made, is
described in the pleadings in such general termi that it is
impossible to ascertain how much of it belongs to what is
called the Linneus Branch, and how much to what is described
in the petition for rehearing as the "main line" of the company.
. The Supreme Court of Missouri, as appears from its opinion
in the record, after.referring to the purchase made in 1871 by
the Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company, an Iowa
corporation, of the main line and the property, rights, privileges, and 'franchises of the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, said: "Afterwards, and in 1872, the directors of
the Burlington Company, acting by the direction of the stockholders of the branch road, then called the Linneus Branch,
placed upon the branch road a mortgage to secure certain
bonds. The main line had been previously mortgaged. The
defendant purchased the branch road through a foreclosure
sale had upon the mortgage thereon. The taxes in suit were
assessed upon this branch road property." Again: "If, as we
have seen, the Burlington Company does not acquire the immunity from taxation,.it is difficult to see how any branch
built by it could take on the exemption."
Assuming, from the language of the court below, that the
only taxes in suit were those assessed upon the branch road
property, we restricted our decision to, the single question as
to the liability to taxation of branch roads established under
the act of March 21, 1868, entitled "an act to aid in the
building of branch roads in the State of Missouri ;" holding,
that roads constructed under that statute came, so far as taxation was concerned, under the operation of the clause of the
Missouri Constitution of 1865 which declares that "no property, real or personal, shall be exempt from taxation, except
such a§ may be used exclusively for public schools, and such as
may belong to the United States, to the state, to counties, or
to municipal corporations."
it is now claimed - and we understand the attorney general of Missouri, in effect, to concede -that the taxes in question were in fact laid, not only upon the.Linneus Branch lying
in Putnam County, but upon that part of the defendant's
"main line" which extends from Unionville, in the same
county, to the boundary line between Missouri and Iowa.
We are, therefore asked to determine whether or not the last
described part of the defendant's road is -not exempt from
taxation for state and county purposes. To this request we
yield, not only because it is now, in effect, conceded that that
question is covered by the pleadings, but because of the suggestion that other cases are pending in the courts of the state
which, by stipulation of the parties, are to abide the determination of the one now before us.

CHICAGO, &c., RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Opinion of the Court.

This claim of immunity from taxation, in respect to the
road between Unionville and the Iowa line, is upon these
grounds: 1. That, by the charter of the St. Joseph and Iowa
Railroad Company, granted in 1857, it is provided that "the
stock of said company shall be exem~pt from all state and
county taxes;''

1

2. That such exemption, in law, extends to

the property of that corporation, as represented by its stock;
3. That the defendant, a corporation of Missouri, and the successor of the Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company,
is entitled to the benefit of the exemption granted to the St.
Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company by its charter of 1857.
Conceding, for this case, that the exemption from taxation
of the stock of the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company
necessarily embraced the property of the corporation, the
question still remains, whether that immunity passed to the
Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company by its purchase in 1871. The determination of that question depends
upon the construction and effect to be given to the second
section of an act of the General Assembly of Missouri approved Mafch 2-4, 1870. : That section became § 57 of Alt. 2,
c. 37, of Wagner's Statutes of Missouri of 1872, and is as
follows:
"Any railroad company heretofore incorporated or hereafter organized in pursuance of law, may, at any time, by
means of subscription to the capital stock of any other railroad company, or otherwise, aid such company in the construction of its railroad, within or without the statb, for the
purpose of forming a connection of the l.ast-mentioned road
with the road owned by the company furnishing such aid; or
any such railroad company, which may have built its road to
the boundary line of the state, may extend into the adjoining
state, and for that purpose may build, or buy, or lease a rail1 Act of January 22, 1857, incorporating the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad
Co., Missouri Sess. Laws, 1850-57, p. 107, § 3; Act of February 16,1847, incorporating the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Co., Missouri Acts of 1847,
p. 156; Act of 1837, incorporating the Louisiana and Columbia Railroad,
Missouri Acts of 1837, p. 240, § 24; State, ex rel. St. .Joseph and Iowa Railroad v. Sullivan County, 51 Missouri, 522; Cooper v. Sullivan County, 65
Missouri, 642.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

road in such adjoining state and operate the same, and may
own such real estate and other property in such adjoining
state as may be convenient in operating such road; or any
railroad company organized in pursuance of the laws of this
or any other state, or of the United States, may lease or purchase all or any part of a railroad, with all its privileges, rights.
franchises, real estate, and other property, the whole or a
part of which is in this state, and constructed, owned, or
leased by any other company, if the lines of the said road or
roads of said companies are continuous or connected at a point
either within or without this state, upon such terms as may be
agreed upon between said companies respectively; or any
railroad company, duly incorporated and existing under the
laws of- an adjoining state, or of the United States, may extend, construct, maintain, and operate its railroad into and
through this state, and for that purpose shall possess and
exercise all the rights, powers, and privileges conferred by the
general laws of this state upon railroad 'corporations organized thereunder, and shall be subject to all the duties,
liabilities, and provisions of the laws of this state concerning
railroad corporations as fully as if incorporated in this state:
'Provided,that no such aid shall be furnished, nor any purchase, lease, sub-letting, or arrangements perfected, until a
meeting of the stockholders of said company or companies of
this state, party or parties to such agreement, whereby a
railroad in this state may .be aided, purchased, leased, sub-let,
or affected by such arrangement, shall .have been called by the
directors thereof, at such time and'place, and in such manner,
as they shall designate, and the holders of a majority
of the stock of such company, in person or -by proxy,, shall
have assented thereto, or- until the holders of a majority of
the stock of such company shall have assented thereto in writing, and a certificte thereof, signed by the" president and
secretary of said company or companies, shall have beenlfiled
in the office of the Secretary of State: And provided,farther,
That if a railroad company of another state shall lease a railroad, the whole or a part of which is in this state, or make
arrangements' for operating the same as provided in this act,

CHICAGO, &c., RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Opinion of the Court.

or shall extend its railroad into this state, or through this
state, such part of said railroad as is within this state shall be
subject to taxation, and shall be subject to all regulations and
provisions of law governing railroads in this state, and a corporation in this state leasing its road -to a corporation of
another state shall remain liable as if it operated the road
itself, and a corpoiation of another state, being a lessee of a
railroad in this state, shall likewise be held liable for the violation of any of the laws of this state, and may sue and be sued,
in all cases and for the same causes, and in the same manner as
a corporation of this state might sue or be sued if operating its
own road; but a'satisfaction of any claim or judgment by either
of said corporations shall discharge the other; and a corporation
of another state, being the lessee as aforesaid, or extending its
railroad as aforesaid, into or through this state, shall establish
and maintain an office or offices in this state, at some point or
points on the line of the rdad so leased. or constructed and
operated, .at which legal process and notice may be served as
uporn railroad corporations of this state."
. As the proposed lines of the Burlington and Southvestern
Railway Company and the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad
Company would, When constructed, make a connected or continuous line from Burlington, Iowa, to St. Joseph, Missouri,
the authority of the former corporation, under the act of 1870,
to purchase or lease the road of the latter, cannot be doubted.
But, as we have seen, the act'expressly declares that if'.a
rilroad corporation of another state leases a railroad, the
whole or part of which is in Missouri, or makes arrangements
for operating the same as provided in that act, such part of
that railrohd, as is within the latter state, "shal l be subject to
taxation." Great stress -is laid by counsel on the fact that,
while the act au:.iorizes a foreign corporation to "lease or
purchase" a railroad, the whole or part of which is in Missouri,
'the word "purchase' is not used in the proviso relating to
taxation. It is therefore argued that, while the legislature
intended to subject to taxation railroads in Missouri which
were leaed, after the passage of the act of 1870, to corpora.tions of other states, it did not intend to tax railroads, in that

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

'Opinion of the Court.

state, which were purcha"e outright by corporations of other
states. That construction of the act is inadmissible. If supported by the mere letter of the statute, it is inconsistent with
the manifestobject which the legislature had in view, namely,
to subject to taxation railroad property in Missouri which
passes under the control of a corporation of another state,
whether by purchase or by lease, or by "arrangements for
operating the same, as provided" in the act of 1870. The
state had the right to prescribe, as a condition upon which the
road, property, franchises, and privileges of the St. Joseph
and Iowa Railroad Company might be placed, by any of those
modes, under the control of a railroad corporation of another
state, that such property, after being so transferred, should be
subject to taxation. Whether such a condition could be imposed upon a corporation having the right, by its charter,
before the act of 1870,.to make an absolute sale of its road,
privileges, and franchises, and to pass to the purchaser whatever immunities -from taxation it then enjoyed, we do not
decide. No such question is now presented.
It is, however, claimed -such we think is the effect of -the
argument in behalf of the company-that .the St. Joseph
and Iowa Railroad Company, for the purpose of enabling .it
"to construct, equip, and operate said road," had the power,
by its charter, as amended November 5, 1857, "to pledge the,
said road, rolling stock, machinery, depots, and any -other
property they may possess, together with the franchises of
said road, for the liquidation of any indebtedness said railroad
company may incur in the construction of said road." Missouri, Stats. 1857, 73, § 3, p. 74, This power to pledge, it may
be insisted, could not legally be affected or modified by the
act of 1870, although that act took effect before any mortgage
was put upon the main line. In answer to such-suggestions,
it is sufficient to say that the restricted power of the company
thus to pledge its property and franchises for the liquidation
of indebtedness incurred in -the construction of its road, did
not authorize it to make, in the first instance, an absolute sale
of its property, rights, privileges, and franchises, to a corporation of another state. The power to make the absolute deed

SHIPPEN v. B0WEN.
Statement of the Case.

of 1871 to the Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company
was given by the act of 1870, and does not appear to have
existed before that time. In no view of the case; therefore,
were the conditions prescribed by that act in violation of any
right possessed by the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company
under its charter. If that corporation elected to make an
absolute sale of its road, with its property, rights, privileges,
and franchises, under the authority given by the act of 1870,
they passed to its grantee, subject to the condition that its
road, in Missouri, so sold, should thereafter be subject to taxation.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are satisfied with
the construction we have heretofore given to the act of 1868.
And we are, also, of opinion that the act of 1870, as in this
opinion interpreted, does not impair the obligation of any contract, which the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company had,
by its charter, with the state of Missouri.
[The rehearing is denied, and the judgment of ajflrmance,
heretofore entered, must, upon the grounds staMd in this
and the orighial opinion, stand as the judgment of this
court.

SHIPPEN '. BOWEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted April 22, 1837. -Decided

May 27, 1887.

In an action in tort, for the breach of an express warranty that-bonds sold
to plaintiff were genuine and valid bonds of a' municipality, when In
fact they were forgeries, and false and fraudulent, to which was joined
a declaration in deceit on the same cause of action, the warranty is the
gist of the action, and It is not necessary to allege or to prove a scienter.

THIS writ of error brought up for review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado,
in an ction brought by the plaintiff in error to recover dam-

