DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Syllabus.

exceptions, the question had not been legally brought before
it at all thus leaving the first verdict in'full force. In the.
present case, it had authority to entertain and pass upon tho
exceptions taken by the plaintiff at, the first trial; when, in
the exercise of that authority, it had sustained those exceptions and ordered a second trial, the case stood as if it had
never been tried before; and only the rulings at the second
trial, and no rulings, whether similar or different, at the former trial,,could be brought to the general term by the exceptions of the defendant, or to this court by his writ of error.
Judgment 'eversed, and case remanded to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, with directions to set aside the
verdict and to order a new trial.

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued May 11, 1887. -Decided

May 27, 1887.

In order to justify a resort to a court of equity for the enforcement of an
equitable estoppel, some ground of equity, other than the estoppel itself,
must be shown whereby the party entitled to the benefit of it is prevented from making it available in a court of law; and, that It must be
made to appear that forms of law are being used to defeat that which,
in equity, constitutes the right.
When in a suit in equity brought to restrain the respondent from enforcing
agaiust the complainant in an action at law a demand against which the
complainant claims to have an equitable defence which is set forth in
the bill, it appears to be altogether uncertain ivhether the complainant
can avail himself in the action at law of the defence asserted in the bill;
the bill should not be dismissed upoi general demurrer, but the respondent should be required to answer.
B., a citizen of the United States, died in France, having in Europe, lodged
with bankers in London and elsewhere, a large amount of personal
securities. He left a will naming his widow, his brother J. of Alabama,
one S., a citizen of France, and others as executrix and executors. With
the knowledge and consent of the widow and of the other' parties Interested J. caused the will to be admitted to probate in Alabama, obVOL. cxx -16

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.
tamined a decree that the decedent was domiciled there, and letters
testamentary were issued to J. only. The Surrogate of New York,
upon this probate, issued ancillary letters testamentary to J.; and, un.
der the same probate, S., likewise with the widow's consent, received
a power of attorney from J. as executor to take possession of the property in Europe and administer upon the estate there. In pursuance
of this authority le, in company with the widow, proved the will in common form in England and took out letters testamentary there in the
name of himself and the widow, and took possession of the property,
among which were registered bonds of the United States to a large
amount. These bonds were sent by him to D. in New York (the plaintiff
inf error) to be sold and the proceeds to be invested in coupon bonds of
the United States. D. made this exchange, and transmitted the coupon
bonds to S. as directed. S. made a settlement with J. as executor, and
afterwards died; and after his death it appeared that he had diverted
the coupon bonds to his own use. The widow then took out letters
.from the Surrogate in New York, in her own name, ancillary to the probate in England, and thereupon brought an action at law in the Circuit
Court of th6 United States for the Southern District of New York, in
her name, as sole executrix under and by virtue of the letters so Issued
to her, against the complainants for conversion of said United States
bonds, alleging that the decedent was domiciled in France, and the Alabama probate was invalid for that reason, and that these letters testamentary to her were conclusive on D. so far as the right to maintain
the action was concerned. D. thereupon filed a bill in equity against F.,
in which the relief sought was an injunction against setting up or claiming in the action at la* or elsewhere that the decedent was not domiciled
in Alabama, that his will was not duly admitted to probate there, and
that the administration thereunder of J. as sole executo~r and S. as his
attorney were not valid and binding, and against using in support of
such allegations the ancillary letters testamentary, whfch defendants had
fraudulently and unlawfully procured to be issued to or in the name of
the widow, discovery of the facts within defendants' knowledge, &c.
On general demurrer this bill was dismissed. HeZ, that the demurrer
should have been overruled, and the defendant required to answer.

THis was a bill in equity fied by the appellants, some of
whom are citizens of Pennsylvania and others of New York,
against the appellee, who is an alien, a citizen of the Republic
of France, and William Berney, a citizen of Texas, and Saffold
Berney, Ohollet Berney, Robert Berney, Phillipa Rousseau,
Sophia White, Ann M. Ball, Phillipa E. Harley, Laurent B.
Hallonquist, Robert L. Hallonquist, and William C. Hallonquist,
citizens of the state of Alabama. Of these defendants, none
were served with process or appeared, except the appellee,

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Statement of the Case.

Louiser Berney. The cause was heard in the Circuit Court on
a general demurrer filed by the appellee to the bill. The
demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed for want of
equity. The complainants appealed.
The following statement of the case, as made by the bill, is
taken from the brief filed by counsel for the appellants:
"The bill alleges in substance:
"1. That said Robert Berney, the decedent, made his will
November 2, 1864, at Croydon, England, whereby he bequeathed his residuary estate to his executors therein named
as trustees and upon trusts, among others, for the benefit of
his widow, the defendant Louise -Berney, and of the other
persons named as defendants; and afterwards, on the 25th of
September, 1874, a codicil thereto, making changes in some of
the bequests in his will, and appointing as executors and
trustees of his will the defendant Louise Berney; also James
Berney, his brother; a Mr. Messier de St. James, of Paris,
'France, and John Drummond and William Drummond.
"2. That Robert Berney died at Paris, France, November
19, 1874, leaving him surviving- his widow, the defendant
Louise Berney, his said brother, James Berney, and nephews
and nieces, who are named as defendants in the bill of complaint. His widow was a native of France, and was with him
at the time of his death, but his said brother James and hi
nephew and nieces were all citizens and residents of Montgomery County, Alabama; said St. James was a resident of
France, and *the Messrs. Drummond, of England. The decedent left personal estate in France, England, and the United
States.
"3. At the time of his death, Robert Berney, the decedent,
was a citizen of the United States, who had lived abroad for
some years, but had never acquired a domicile in France under
or in accordance with its laws. Upon his death. his widow,
the defendant Louise Berney, presented the will and codicil of
the decedent to the proper judicial authority in France, and,
in accordance with French law, the administration of the estate
was committed to a notary by competent judicial authority,
December 4, 1874.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

"4. Subsequently, and before anything else was .done, -and
on the application of said James Berney, the brother of decedent, and one of his executors, the will and codicil were formally admitted to probate, and letters testamentary thereon
issued to said James 'Berney alone, by competent judicial
authority at Montgomery, Alabama, on the 8th of February,
1875, the decree of the Alabama court being that the decedent
was domiciled at Montgomery, Alabama, and that it had full
jurisdiction in the premises. All-of the heirs at law and next
of kin of, the decedent, except the widow, the defendant Louise
Berney, were at that time citizens and residents of Alabama,
and by the laws of Alabama such probate and issue of letters
testamentary cannot be impeached collaterally, and are conclusive upon all persons and parties.
"5. That'said James Berney, having been thus constituted
sole executor, gave a full 'power of attorney to said St. Jaiaes,
empowering him, among other things, to reduce the decedent's
estate to, possession, and to sell any and all property, &c.
About the same time and on the 9th of March, 1875, said
James Berney, being thus sole executor by reason of the
Alabama probate, obtained the issue to himself, by-the Surrogate or Court of Probate in the city of New York, of ancillary letters testamentary, based upon the Alabama probate.
This adjudication is in due form, and also remains unimpaired
and in full force. All of the said proceedings of said James
Berney were known to the defendant Lbuise Berney and
the other persons named as executors, as well as7 to the
legatees under the will, the other defendants in the bill of
complaint.
"6. That at the time of the decedent's death, certain evidences of title of the personal property lbft by him were in
his possession at Paris, France, and the purpose and intention
of the proceedings above mentioned were to secure immunity of the decedent's estate from taxation in France, and to provide for the due' and lawful administration of the assets,
which were then actually in the possession of the widow, the
defendant Louise Berney, and said St. James, and by the
joint action of the sole qualified executor, said James Berney,

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Statement of the Case.

said St. James, and said defendant Louise Berney, before the
notary to whom the-matter had been so judicially committed
in France, as aforesaid, the whole estate and its achninistration was entrusted to said St. James, as attorney for said
James Berney, executor, with the knowledge and approval of
all parties in interest, including the defendants.. Formal proceedings were afterwards had before the notary at Paris, on
the 30th and 31st of March and the 3d and 4th of 'ay, 1875,
and afterwards on the 11th of June, 1875, and on those dates
formal documents or records were duly executed by the parties before the notary: the first, by the widow, the defendant
Louise Berney, and said St. James; and the second; by the
same persons in connection with said James Berney, the qualifled executor, in person. At these proceedings and in the
notatial instruments or records it was formally evidenced and
declared that the decedent was at the time of his death domiciled at Montgomery, Alabama, that the probate of the will
in Alabama was regular and valid, and that said James Berney was the sole qualified executor, and his power of attorney
substituted said St. James in all the executor's functions and
rights, and the defendant Louise Berney acknowledged receipt
of the legacies given to her by the will from the administration of the estate thus constituted. By the laws of France,
neither the defendant Louise Berney, nor any other of the
persons named as executors in the will, nor any one claiming
under them, are permitted to assert the contrary of any of
the matters thereby established.
"7. That among other assets the decedent left $200,000
in United States bonds, $12,500 in stock of the United
States Mortgage Co., $58,200 in stock of the New York
Central & Htfdson River Railroad Co., £8000 in bonds
of the New York & Canada Railroad Co., £3000 bond and
mortgage on real estate in England, and nioneys on deposit
with bankers at London. Of these items said James Berney,
in person, took possession of and sold the $12,500 in stock of
the United States Mortgage Co. and the $58,200 in stock of
the New York Central & Hudson River Railroad Co. On the
15th of June, 1875, the defendant Louise Berney and said St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

James procured proof of the will and codicil in common fcirm,
and the issue of letters testamentary to them by a competent
court in England, and having taken possession of the X8000
in bonds of the New York & Canada Railroad Co., and the
£3000 bond and mortgage on real estate in England, by virtue
of their English letters got in and converted into money the
assets in England, as to the last-mentioned item, an instrument
having been jointly executed by all three of the parties, Louise
Berney, St. James and James Berney. All these proceedings
were had without objection on the part of any of the defend
ants. The $200,000 of United States bonds were sent to' this
country, and by agents of said St. James at the city of -N'ew
York presented to complainants, with directions to change the
bonds from registered to bearer bonds by selling the registered
bonds, and with the proceeds buying bearer or coupon bonds
of the same issue, the only method of effecting such exchange.
The agents of said St. James furnished to the officers of the
United States Treasury satisfactory evidence of their authority
to transfer the bonds, and upon which the bonds were transferred, and the complainants sold the registered bonds and
with the proceeds bought $195,000 of coupon bonds, and with
a sum in money representing the difference delivered the same
to the agents of said St. James, who, in their turn, delivered
the same to said St. James himself after he and the defendant
Louise Berney had taken out their letters testamentary in
England.
"8. That legacies given by the will and codicil to several of
the defendants were duly received by them from James Berney or said St. James under the administration of the estate
so established, and during all the times mentioned said James
Berney was the agent for, and actual guardiaL -of, the defendants, and had full knowledge of all the aforesaid transactions.
"9. That in the year 1880 said James Berney sent his son,
the defendant Saffold Berney, to France, who then and there,
acting as attorney and agent for his father in his quality of
executor, and for himself and defendants as legatees, instituted
judicial proceedings against said St. James for an account of
his administration of the decedent's estate, and finally received

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Statement of the Case.

from said St. James, in full satisfaction and. discharge of his
liability to them, certain property. Because St. James has
since died, and because of the laws and customs of France,
complainants cannot ascertain the precise details of the transaction.
"10. That the defendants now claim that said St. James
diverted the $195,000 in coupon bonds and the money so
received by him in exchange for the $200,000 United States
registered bonds, and that the Alabama probate so obtained
by said James Berney was invalid, because, as they now
assert, the decedent was domiciled in France. The defendants
have confederated together to assert and maintain this claim by
means as follows: They have obtained from the Surrogate of
New York County a second issue of ancillary letters testamentary to the defendant Louise Berney alone, based upon the false
representation that the decedent's will had been admitted to
probate in England in such manner as to justify the issue of
ancillary letters testamentary here, and the false representation that there were unadministered assets in New York, and
the fraudulent suppression of the facts concerning the former
issue of letters ancillary to James Berney, founded upon the
Alabama probate, and thereupon have brought an action at
"law in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, in the name of said defendant, Louise
Berney, as sole executrix under and by virtue of the letters so
issued to her, against the complainants, for conversion of said
$200,000 United States bonds, and wherein they allege that
said decedent was domiciled in France, and the said Alabama
probate was invalid for that reason, and that the letters testamentary so issued to the defendant, Louise Berney, are conclusive upon the complainants, so far as her right to bring and
maintain said action is concerned. Complainants are not permitted by law to procure the cancellation of said letters, or to
contest the validity thereof. In view of the foiegoing, complainants insist that the defendants are estopped in equity
from now asserting against them that said decedent was
domiciled elsewhere than at 'Montgomery, Alabama, or that
the proceedings of the executors at Paris are not binding upon

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

them. Complainants also allege that the several mdtters and
things above mentioned may not be pleaded and do not constitute a defence to the action at law, &c.
"11. That, in addition to the action at law in the Federal
court before referred to, the defendants have brought another.
action in the Supreme Court of the state of'New York in their
own names as plaintiffs against the complainants, wherein
they make the like claim as to Robert Berney's domicile and
the Alabama probate of his will, and assert that they are
the owners of the $200,000 United States bonds, and that
complainants have converted them, &c.
"12. That, according to the. French law, the defendant,
Louise Berney, as the widow of the decedent, would have been
entitled to a certain portion of his estate, had Jae been domiciled in France. The portion she would have received under
the French law, had the right been claimed or asserted by her,
was much more than the value of the $200,000 of United
States bonds, and, consequently, she cannot maintain the
action at law in the right or interest of her codefendants, if it
be true that decedent was domiciled in France, until an accounting shall have been had between her 'and the legatees,
under the will.
"13. And that the defendants are all beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and the defendant Louise Berney is an alien
and resident of France, where her testimony cannot be taken
by any ordinary process because of the laws of France, that
the facts are within the knowledge of defendants and a discovery is necessary, &c., &c.
"The relief sought was an injunction against setting up or
claiming in the action at law or elsewhere. that the decedent
was not domiciled at Montgomery, Alabama; that his will
was not duly admitted to probate there; and that the administration thereunder of said James Berney, as sole executor,
and said St. *James, as his attorney, were not valid and binding, and against using in support of such allegations the ancillary letters testamentary, which defendants have fraudulently
and unlawfully procured to be issued to or in the name of the
defendant, Louise Berney, discovery of the facts within defendants' knowledge, &c."

DREXEL

.

BERNEY.

Argument for Appellee.

2(r. Wayne .Afao Veagh and Mr. C. E. Tracy for appellants.
.r. Franklin. B. Lord (.X. George De Forest .ord was
with him on the brief) for appellee.
I. The bill does not seek to enjoin, the defendants from
prosecuting, any actions to recover from the complainants the
United States bonds, or their value, but simply to enjoin the
defendants from asserting in such action.or actions, that Robert Berney was not domiciled in Alabama, or that his will was
not duly proved, and letters testamentary, duly issued in that
county, or that the power of attorney to St. James was not
valid, or from using in support of the claim that Robert Berney was domiciled in Paris the proceedings before the Surrogate in lNew York County.
The bill does not admit that Robert Berney was not domiciled in Alabama, but on the contrary, insists that the allegations of the defendants in that regard are false, nor does it
anywhere appear that the complainants would have any difficulty in proving in any suit brought against them, what they
claim to be the true facts in respect to such domfcil. On the
contrary, the complainants insist that in the two judicial proceedings, namely, the proceeding before the notary in France,
and before the Probate Court in Alabama, it has been determined that Mr. Berney was domiciled in Alabama, and that
these adjudications are binding. The only reason they assign
for seeking the relief on the equity side of the court is, that
they should not be put ,to the expense of defending the actions
brought by the defendants.
The matter in dispute is therefore not the bonds or their
value, but the expense to the complainants of defending actions
at law. As it does not appear that such expense will exceed
$5000, the case is not appealable to this court.
II. The only ground on which the complainants seek relief
is that the defendants, by their conduct, are estopped from asserting that Robert Berney was not domiciled in Montgomery
County, Alabama, or that James Berney, as executor under
the probate of the will, and the letters issued to him in Alabama, and St. James as his attorney, had not the power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Appellee.

dispose of the bonds mentioned in the complaint, and that on
account of an alleged fraudulent concealment by Saffold Berney, upon his application for ancillary letters to the Surrogate
of New York County, to be issued to Louise Berney, the defendants should be precluded from using the proceedings
before said surrogate as evidence of Robert Berney's domicil.
If these matters could be availed of by the complainants, as
matter of defence in the actions at law brought against them,
the complaint was rightly dismissed, for they had on that
assumption, "a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law."
While the doctrine of equitable estoppel originated and was
promulgated by courts of chancery, it is now recognized and
enforced as liberally in courts -of law as in courts of equity.
Dikerson v. Coigrove, 100 U. S. 578.
The complainants, therefore, can avail themselves of the
estoppel, even if it be of the character commonly known as
equitable estoppel, as a defence at law, and there is no necessity for their seeking affirmative relief in equity, nor does the
alleged fraud in obtaining letters testamentary to Madame
Berney, furnish any ground for equitable interference, for the
allegations in such proceedings only establish jurisdiction in
the absence of fraud, and fraud, if it exists as the complainants allege, will undoubtedly be available to them in any
action in which the proceedings may be used in evidence.
New York Code-of Procedure, § 247T3, cited by appellant.
In the Fed6ral courts the proceedings under which letters
testamentary or of administration are granted are not conclusive evidence even of the fact of the death of the alleged
testator or intestate. Lavin v. Emigrant Indwetial Saavings
,ank, 18 Blatchford, 1.
III. The complainants have not made out a case of equitable
estoppel. The very essence of such an estoppel is, that the
party seeking to set it up should have done or omitted to do
something relying upon statements or conduct of the adverse
party, justifying him in the belief that a certain state of facts
existed, which, on account of such action on,his part, the
other side should not be allowed to gainsay. The complainants allege that the defendants have by their acts conceded

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

that Robert Berney was domiciled in Alabama, but it does
not appear that such action ever came to the knowledge of
-the complainants, or that their actions had been in the slightest degree affected by the proceedings in. France, or by the
part, if any, taken by the defendants therein.
These proceedings in France furnish no defence to the action, or else constitute an estoppel of record. The complaint,
instead of showing an equitable defence, which cannot be
asserted at law, shows facts which, if they constitute a defence
at all, are rather of legal than of equitable cognizance..
IV.The bill cannot be sustained as one for discovery in aid
of a defence at law, because the complainants have propounded no interrogatories as required by the rules when a
discovery is desired. Bailey Wasking .achine Co.v. Young,
12 Blatchford, 199, 200. Equity Rules, 40, 41.
An application to restrain or interfere with an action at law
is addressed to the discretion of the equity judge. Conceding
for the moment that the circuit judge might have entertained
the bill, if the convenient and orderly administration of justice
would have been promoted by his so doing, it is insisted that
such would not have been the case. If the bill had been sustained, the court would have had to hear the cause upon the
question of estoppel alone, or else to have dragged in and
determined the other issues involved in the legal actions. If
the latter course were adopted, it would be necessary to dismiss the complaint in this case, unless the complainants establish an equitable defence, for otherwise, the defendants would
have been deprived of a trial by jury in a purely common law
action. To hear the case on the question of estoppel alone
would be to try the controversy by piecemeal. All this is
avoided by compelling the complainants to assert in the common law actions a defence, which, if a defence at all, is perfectly available to them at law.
MR. JUSTiCE MATTiEws, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

It does-not as distinctly appear from the bill itself as from
the statement, that the first, action at law, referred to, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

brought and is pending in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of. :New York. It may, however, perhaps be fairly inferred from the allegations of the bill
that such is the fact, and as it has been so assumed in the argument of the cause, no question is made upon the sufficiency of
the bill in that respect. The only ground here urged in support of the decree and of the demurrer to the bill is, that the
complainants, upbn the case made in the bill, have a complete
and adequate defence at law, and that, consequently, they do
not bring themselves within the jurisdiction of a court of
equity.
If the decedent, Robert Berney, at the time of his death was
domiciled in France, and not m Alabama, the letters testamentary issued to his brother, James Berney, as executor in
Alabama, were void, and the authority given by James Berney
to St. James by the power of attorney was also invalid, and
the payment made by the appellants to St. James of the proceeds of the sales of the bonds which belonged to the estate
does not bind the rightful executor or protect the complainants. The ground of the bill, therefore, is, that, upon these
facts, an action at law may be successfully maintained by the
appellee as executrix of lRobert Berney against the complainants for the value of the bonds. The question is, whether the
other facts set up in the bill furnish a complete and adequate
defence to such an action at law, or whether they establish a
right in equity to relief. The rule as laid down by this court
/undy,
3 Pet. 210, 215, is, that "it
in Boyce's Executors v. G
is not enough that there is a remedy at law. It must be plain
and adequate; or, in other words, as practical and efficient to
the ends of justice and its prompt'administration as the remedy in equity." And; as appears by that case, the principle is
as applicable in cases where a complainant resorts to a court
of equity to enforce a defence to an action at law, as where he
seeks by a bill in equity other relief. This is illustrated by the
case of Grand Chute v. Winegar, 15 Wall. 373, 377. That
was a case of a bill in equity by a municipal corporation to
procure the cancellation, of ,bonds on which an action at law
had been brought, alleged to be void in the hands of the

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

holder. The court said: "A judgment against Winegar in the
suit brought by him would be as conclusive upon the invalidity
of the bonds, would as effectually prevent all future vexatious
litigation, would expose the fraud, and prevent future deception as perfectly and thoroughly, as would a judgment in
the equity suit. Under such circumstances, there is no authority for bringing this suit in equity."
The ground of relief alleged in the present bill is, that by
her acts and conduct the appellee has estopped herself, as
against the complainants, from asserting any fact which annuls the executorship of James Berney under the Alabama
probate, and the authority of St. James as his attorney in
fact. Estoppels of this character, as distinguished from estoppels by record or by deed, are called equitable estoppels. It is
not meant thereby that they are cognizable only in courts of
equity, for they are commonly enforced in actions at law, as
was fully shown in Dickeron v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578. But
it does not follow, because equitable estoppels may originate
legal, as distinguished from equitable rights, that it may not
be necessary in particular cases to resort -to a court of equity
in order to make them available. All that can properly be
said is, that in order to justify a resort to a court of equity, it
is necessary to show some ground of equity other than the
estoppel itself, whereby the party entitled to the benefit of it
is prevented from making it available in a court of law. In
other words, the case shown must be one where the forms of
the law are used to defeat that which, in equity, constitutes
the right. Such a case is one for equitable interposition.
A close analogy is found in the doctrine of equitable set-off.
The rule regulating the right of set-off is the same both at
law and in equity, and yet there are many cases where setoffs not permissible at law may be enforced in equity. As
was said by Mr. Justice Story in Greene v. Darling,5 Mason,
261, 209: "Now, the general rule in equity is, like that at
law, that there can be no set-off of joint debts against separate
debts, unless some new equity justify it. Such an equity may
arise under circumstances of fraud; or where the party seeking relief is only a surety for a debt relly separate; or where

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

there are a series of transactions in which joint credit is given
with reference to the separate debt." And at page 212:
"Since the statutes of set-off of mutual debts and credits,
courts of equity have generally followed the course adopted
in the construction of the statutes by courts of law; and have
applied the doctrine to equitable debts; they have rarely, if
ever, broken in upon the decisions at law, unless some other
equity intervened which justified them in granting relief beyond the rules of law, such as has been already alluded to."
In -Downer v. Dana, 17 Vt. 518, 523, Judge Redfield said:

"Although a court of equity will not, any more than a court
of law, allow a set-off of joint debts against separate debts,
yet there are many exceptions. One important exception is
where the debts are in reality mutual, although not so in form,
as where one of the joints debtors is a mere surety." In
Smith v. Felton, 43 N. Y. 419, the court said: "Equity will
look through the form of. the transaction, and adjust the
equities of the parties with a view to its substance, rather
than its form, so long as no superior equities of third persons
will be affected by such adjustment." In such cases, equity
looks to the beneficial ownership of the debt. Kerr on Injunctions, 64, chap. 4, § 5.
The principle of these cases applies, we think, to the present. The ground of equity jurisdiction asserted in the bill is
that the estoppel relied on would be good at law as against
Louise Berney in her individual right, but not against her in
her representative capacity as executrix of the estate of her
deceased husband under the New York letters testamentary;
but that it is good against her in equityin that capacity to
the extent of her own individual interest, and the interest of
any distributees of the estate equally bound thereby, in the
fund which she is seeking as executrix at law to recover. She
sues at law as executrix for the purpose of recovering a sum
in dispute for the general benefit of the estate to be applied
to the payment of creditors, legatees, and other distributees.
'Under the law of France as widow, and under the will as
beneficiary, she is individually entitled to some as yet undetermined portion of the assets of the estate, after the pay-

DREXEL v. BERNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of creditors, if there are any unpaid. Others named as
defendants, similaxly bound by the transactions relied upon
as an estoppel, are also beneficially interested in the distribution of the estate in some yet unascertained proportions.
There may be others entitled to some portion of the estate on
distribution, in respect to whom the defence relied upon does
not apply. As between them and the appellee and other
beneficiaries, it may be necessary to have an account of what
they have receiyed, and of what they are still to receive, and
an adjustment upon equitable grounds, based on the right of
the appellants to enforce the recognition of their payment to
'St. James as an agent whose authority the appellee and some
of the other distributees cannot in equity be allowed to question. In the action at law, the appellee represents the whole
estate, and every one interested in its collection and distribution. It may very well happen, therefore, that in the action
at law the right to prove the facts on which the estoppel rests
may be questioned and denied on the ground that the plaintiff
in the action at law is not bound as executrix for what she
did and assented to in her character as widow and legatee.
On this ground, therefore, and because it appears to be altogether uncertain whether the appellants can avail themselves in the action brought against them at law of the
defence asserted in this bill, and admitted by the demurrer
to be true, we think the demurrer should have been overruled, and the defendant required to answer., For error in
this particular,
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause

remanded, with directions to take further proceedings
therein as equity and justie may require. It is accordingly 8o ordered.

