OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THr
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ,MISSOURI.
Argued May 10, 11, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.
It being the settled doctrine of this court that "the remedy subsisting in
a state when and where a contract is made and is to be' performed is a
part of its obligation, and" that "any subsequent law of the state
which so affects that remedy as substantially to impair and lessen the
value of -the contract is forbidden by the Constitution, and is -therefore
void;" and the legislature of Missouri having, by the act of March 23,
1868, to facilitate the construction of railroads, enacted that the county
court should from time to time levy and cause to be collected, in the
'same manner as county taxes, a special tax in order to pay the interest
and principal of any' bond which might be issued by a municipal corporation in the state on account of a subscription, authorized by the act, to
the stock of a railroad company, which tax should be levied on all the
real estate within the township making the subscription , in accordance
with the valuation then last made by the county assessors for county
purposes, Held:
(1) That it was a material part of this contract that such creditor should
always have the right to a special tax to be levied and collected
in the same manner as county taxes at the same time might be
levied and collected;
(2) That the provisions contained in §§ 6798, 6799, and 6800 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879 respecting the assessment and
collection of such taxes are not a legal equivalent for the provisions contained in the act of 1868; and
(3) That the. law of 1868, although repealed by the legislature of Missouri, is still in force for the purpose of levying and collecting
the tax necessary for the psyment of a judginent recovered against
a municipal corporation in .the state, upon a debt incurred by
subscribing to the stock of a railroad company in accordance
with its provisions.

THIS was a proceeding. by mandamus in the Circuit Court

of the United States for the Eastern District of ]lissouri. The
alternative writ recited that in 1883 a peremptory writ of
mandanjW- was issued by the court, commanding the county
court of Cape Girardeau County and the judgesthereof to
make a levy on all the real estate and personal property in

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

Cape Girardeau township subjept to taxation, including statements of merchants and manufacturers doing business in said
.ownship, and that thereupon the county court, in obedience
to the command of said writ, on the 23d day of :May, 1883,
during a regular term of said county court, made an order on
their records, whereby it was ordered that, for the purpose of
of paying the judgments of Elisha Foote) the Ninth National
Bank of lNew York, John T. Hill, Valentine Winter, and
George W. Harshman, amounting to $14,288.20, and interest
and costs, a tax' of two per cent be levied on all the real. estate
.and personal property in Cape Girardeau township subject to
taxation, including statements of merchants and-manufacturers
doing business in said township, and the clerk of the counti
court was ordered to extend said tax in a separate column on
the tax book of said county for the yeali 1883. That, in obedience to said order, the special tax ordered tb be levied as
aforesaid was, by the clerk of said court, entered upon and extended in a separate column of the regular tax book of Cape
Girardeau County for the year 1883; and, upon the completion of said tax book, the same was delivered in the time
and in the manner required by law for the year 1883 to James
M. Seibert, collector, who was then and there the collector of
taxes, duly elected and qualified as such, and acting therein
for the year 1883; and the said collector was then and there
ordered by the county court to proceed and collect the said
special tax in the same manner as other taxes, state and
county, were authorized to be collected for the said year 1883
in sdid county; and that after the receipt of the said tax book,
the said collector, claiming to be prevented from proceeding
in thec'6lletion ol said tax by an injunction issued by the
judge of the Tenth Judicial Circuit of the state of Missouri,
upon a petition therefor, filed in the name of the state of
Missouri upon the relation of the prosecuting attorney of that
county, announced his determination to abstain from all efforts
to demand, sue for, or collect any part of said special'tax, and
refused to proceed farther therein.
The return of the respondent, Seibert, to the alternative
writ admitted the facts therein stated, and set out at length

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

the petition for injunction referred to therein, filed on the
29th of December, 1883. The petition, fied'in the name of
the state of Missouri by the prosecuting attorney of the
county, prayed for an injunction agoainst the collection of the
tax, on the ground that it was not a state tax, nor a tax necessary to pay the funded or bonded indebtedness of the state,
nor a tax for current county expenses or schools, or either,
and "that said.county court, before making the levy and order
as aforesaid, did not make or cause to be made an application
to the circuit court of said county, nor to the judge thereof;
in vacation, for an order to have, assessed, levied, and collected
said two per cent tax, nor was any such order in fact made
by such court or the judge thereof, in vacation. That, on the
contrary, said county, court, in violation of the statutes in
such cases made and provided and in usurpation of their
power, have assessed and levied, and are now trying to have
collected, said two per cent tax at its assessed valuation of all
the taxable property of said township, without said permission or order of said court, in violation of their duties and
without authority of law."
And further, that the levy of the two per cent tax was
made for the purpose of paying off a portion of a bonded debt
contracted in behalf of Cape Girardeau township by virtue of
the act of the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, approved March 23, 1868, [seepost, page 290,] in aid of railroads,
and was in violation of that act because levied on the personal
property within said township as well as on the real estate
therein.
The return further set out that the injunction as prayed for
was granted, and the respondent said that, in obedience to the
said writ of injunction, he had ceased to collect or to endeavor
to collect said special tax, the said injunction being still in
force.
The respondent in his return further stated, "that he is
ready and willing to do and perform every duty devolved
upon him as collector as aforesaid, so far as he legally may,
but submits whether he ought to be required to collect the
said special tax so as aforesaid levied by the said county court

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of Cape Girardeau County, because, as he is informed by counsel, the same was not levied in the mode and manner required
by the laws of the state of Missouri, as set forth in §§ 6798 and
6799 of the Revised statutes, [seejTost, page 292,] concerning the
assessment and collection of the revenue, and it is made a
criminal offence, punishable by fine of not less than five hundred dollars and forfeiture of office, for any officer in the state
of Missouri to collect or attempt to collect any tax or taxes
other than tlose specified and enumerated in § 6798 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri without being ordered so to do by
the circuit court of the county, or the judge thereof in vacation, in the manner provided and directed in § 6799 of said
Revised Statutes. And respondent submits that the said special
tax is not a tax specified and enumerated in § 6798 of theRevised Statutes of Missouri, and that no order was made by the
circuit court of Cape Girardean County directing the said
county court to have assessed, levied, and collected such special tax as required by § 6799 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, and that he is informed by counsel that the said levy of
such special tax so as af6resaid made by said county court is
illegal and void, and that respondent cannot collect or attempt
to collect the same without violating the criminal laws of the
state of Missouri."
To this return, the relator demaurred generally. The demurrer was sustained, and a peremptory writ ordered to issue,
and thereupon the respondent sued out the present writ. of
error.

. fr. D. A. .XKnig t for plaintiff in error.
The return sets out facts sufficient to constitute a return,
because it shows that the respondent was proceeding in good
faith under the order of the county court to collect the tax,
when he was advised that said proceeding was illegal under
the statute of Missouri, and this information was enforced by
the issue of an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction.
His primary defence. therefore, is that the writ of manda-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

mus has bommanded him to do an illegal act, and 'this is sufficient in law. State v. Perr.ne,34 N. J. Law (5 Vroom), 254;
Johnson v. Lucas, 11 Humph. 306; KEnox County v. Aspinwall, 24 How. 376.
The purpose of the provisions of. the statutes of Missouri is
to protect the people of the state from the imposition of unjust and illegal taxes by the county courts, which are not
judicial tribunals. Those statutes are constitutional, and they
were binding upon the county court and- the plaintiff in'
error.
State v. Hannibal& St. Josep Railroad,87 Missouri, 236;
State v. Seibert (a certified copy of which is here'with filed).
The Federal courts will lean towards an agreement with the
decisions of the state courts in the matter of the construction
of their statutes. Bgurgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116. U. S. 356; 2Norton v. Shelby
County, 118 U. S.425. Where tNs court has ignored certain
preliminary requirements of the statutes of a state, in the
matter of levying and collecting taxes, it has been where they
were non-essentials, and not (as in this case) where they were
commanded under penalty of criminal punishment. .Jlawley
v. Fairbanks, 108 U. S. 543; Labette County v. 2oulton, 112
U. S. 217.
In directing the plaintiff in error by this writ of mandamus
to do an unlawful act, expressly forbidden, -the Circuit Court
exceeded its jurisdiction. .naox County v. As pinwal, 24
How. 376; S pervisors v. United States, 18 Wall. 71; Barkley v. Zvee Commissioners, 93 U. S. 258; United States v.
Clark County, 95 U. S. 769; .lemphis v. United States, 97
U. S. 293; United States v. facon County, 99 U. S. 582;
.feriwether v. Garrett, 102 U. S. 472; Ex parte. Rowland,
104 U. S. 604. The writ of the Circuit Court, directing the
plaintiff in error to collect the' tax illegally levied under the
statute, was in effect a levy and collection by the Circuit
Court, and was, therefore, beyond its power. Bees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107; Heine v. Ievee Commissioners, 19 Wall.
655; Meriwether v. -arrett, 102 U. S. 472; People v. Chicago
& Alton Railroad, 55 Ill. 96; Williams v. County Commi -

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
Argument for. Plaintiff in Error.

sioners, 35 Maine, 345. A writ of mandamus cannot compel
a levy in any other time or manner than that provided by law.
Suyenvisors v. .lein, 51 Mississippi, 807; People v. Veso/d,
53 Barb. 555.
In this case, by the enactment in the Revision of 1879 of
the provisions cited, there was no impairment of the obligation of the contract entered into when the bonds were issned,
as will appear from a comparison of said sections with § 2,
act approved March 23, 1868. When this court has held the
legislative action of a state, enacted subsequently to the issue
of the bonds, to be void, it has been in cases where the new
law substantially prevented the satisfaction of the judgment.
Board of 1iquidation v. .A1Comb, 92 U. S. 531; Cass County
v. Johnston, 95 U. S. 360; .Xurray v. C'arleston,96 U. S. 432;
.Afernplds v. United States, 97 U. S. 293; United States v.
MATayo', 103 U. S. 358; Balls County v. United States, 105 U.
S. 733; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Louisiana v. Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131; but here a substantial equivalent for
the original manner of levying the tax has been furnished, by
which the judgment7 may be fully satisfied, and hence the
obligation of the contract is unimpaired. Balls County v.
United States, 105 U. S. 733; Woo' v. .New Orleans,103 U. S.
358; Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769; Port of 3fobile v.
TFatsom, 116 U. S. 289; United States v. ifobile, 12 Fed. Rep.
768; Curtis v. Whitney, 13 Wall. 68.
The new method of levying the tax, prescribed in the Revised Sfatutes of 1879, was simple and efficacious, and the
Circuit Court's writ of mandamus to the county court was a
perfect means of setting the machinery in motion. The State
v. Rainey, 74 Missouri, 229. This court has recognized the
right of the state of Missouri to amend the act of 1868, under
which these bonds were issued, in matters within its discretion. Cape Girardeauv. United States, 118 U. S. 68. It is
within the discretion of the legislature of a state To change
the form of levying and collecting taxes, and of this the
oFn Tofman v. .Quinoy, 4
bondholders cannot complain.
Wall. 535.
The states have the right to determine the manner of asVOL. CX=i-

19

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

sessing and levying faxes, and the decisions of their courts on
these questions is binding on the Federal courts. Bailey v.
_fagwire, 22 Wall. 215. In this case the validity of the judgment on these bonds, and the obligation of the mandamus to
the county court, are not denied. But the collector, an
officer of the state, has, at the suit of the state, been enjoined from violating a positive law of the state, and the injunction has been sustained by its Supreme Court. In the
cases below, and other cases, the injunction, which this court
has said could not be set up as a defence against a writ of

mandamus from a Federal court, was issued at the suit of the
defaulting debtor. Biggs v. oknson County, 6 Wall. 166;'
iT'he .ayor v. Iord,9 Wall. 409; Supervisors v. -Durant,9
Wall. 415; Hawley v. Fairbanks,108 U. S. 543, 546.
-Yr.J. B. Henderson and Xr. James X.E.ewis for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE MIATrEEWS, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is conceded that the relator's judgment, which he is now
seeking to collect, was founded upon municipal obligations of
Cape Girardeau County, issued under the authority of an act
to facilitate the construction of railroads in the state of :Missouri, which took effect March 23, 1868. Missouri .Laws of
1868, p. 92. The second section of that act is as follows:
"SEC. 2. In order to meet the payments on account of the

subscription to the stock, according to its terms, or to pay the
interest and principal on any bond which may be issued on
account of such subscription,.the county court shall, from time
to time, levy and cause to be collected, in the same manner as
county taxes, a special tax, which shall be levied on all the
real estate lying within the township making the subscription
in accordance with the valuation then last made by the county
assessor for county purposes."
It will be observed that the tax authorized by this section of
the statute of 1868, under which the bonds were issued, is to

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.

"291

Opiniou of the Court.

be levied on the real estate within the township only, and not
upon the personal property, including statements of merchants
and manufacturers doing business in the township. But this
levy upon personal -property and merchants' licenses, in addition to real estate, is authorized by an amendment passed
March 10, 1871. 1 Wagner's Statutes, 1872, 313, § 52. As
thus amended, the section reads as follows :
"In order to meet the payments on account of the subscription to the stock according to its terms, or to pay the interest
and principal on any bond which may be issued on account of
such subscription, the county court shall, from time to time,
levy and cause to be collected- in the same manner as county
taxes, a special tax, which shall be levied on all the real estate
and personal property, including all statements of merchants
doing business within said . . . township, . . . lying
and. being within the township making the subscription, in
accordance with the valuation then last, made by the county
assessor for county purposes," &c.
'That the relator was entitled to a tax levied in pursuance of
this amended section, his judgment having been obtained while
it was in force, was adjudged in his favor by the Circuit Court
*hen he obtained his peremptory mandamus against the
judges of the county court, requiring them to levy the tax,
the collection of which he is now seeking to enforce by the
present proceeding. The question was also directly adjudged
in his favor by this court in the case of Cape GirardeauCounty
Court v. Hill, 118 U. S. 68. In that case it was said: "The
township having legally incurred an obligation to pay the
bonds in question, it was competent for the legislature at any
time to make provision for its being met by taxation upon any
kind of property within the township that was subject to taxation for public purposes."
Having obtained his judgment while that act remained in
force, and having obtained by the judgment of the Circuit
Court.an actual levy of a tax according to its provisions, his
right thereto became thereby vested so as not to be affected
by a subsequent repeal of the statute. But on March 8, .1879,
the General Assembly of the state of Missouri passed an act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

found in §§ 6798, 6799, and 6800 of the Revised Statutes of
MXissouri of 187 , which read as follows:
"SE0. 6798. Taxes, lww assessed, levied, and collected.The following-named taxes shall hereafter be assessed, levied,
and collected in the several counties in this state, and only in
the manner and not to exceed the rates prescribed by the con.
stitution and laws of this state, viz.: the state tax and the tax
necessary to pay the funded or bonded debt of- the state, the
tax for current county expenditules, and for schools.
"SEC. 6799. Procedure, limitations, and conditions.-No
other tax for any purpose shall be assessed, levied, or collected,'
except under the following limitations afid conditions,, viz.:
The prosecuting attorney or county attorney of any county
-upon
the request of the county court of such county, which
request shall be of record with the proceedings of said court,
and such court being first satisfied that there exists a necessity
for the assessment, levy, and collection of other taxes than
those enumerated and specified in the preceding sectionshall present a petition to the circuit court of his county, or to
the judge thereof in vacation, setting forth the facts and specifying the reasons why such other tax or taxes 'should be assessed, levied, and collected and such circuit court, or judge
thereof, upon being satisfied of the necessity for such other
tax or taxes, and th.t tho assessment, levy,' and collection
thereof will not be in conflict'with the c6nstitution and laws
of this state, shall make an order directed to the county court
of such county, commanding such court to have assessed, levied, and collected such other tax or taxes, and shall enforce
such order by mandamus or otherwise."SEC. 6800. Assessment, levy, and collection not to be made
exceyt as provided.- Any county court judge, or other county
officer in this state, who shall assess, levy, or collect, or who
shall attempt to assess, levy, or collect, or cause to'be assessed,
levied, or collected, any tax or taxes other than those specified
. and enumerated in section six thousand seven hundred and
ninety-eight, without being first ordered so to do by the Cir.cuit Court of th6 county or the judge thereof, in the express
manner provided and directed in section six thousand seven

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

hundred and ninety-nine, shall be guilty of u misdemeanor,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not
less than five hundred dollars, and, in addition to such punishment, his office shall become vacant; and the method herein
provided for the assessment, levy, and collection of any tax or
taxes not enumerated and specified in section six thousand
seven hundred and ninety-eight, shall be the only method
known to the law whereby such tax or taxes may be assessed,
or collected, or ordered to be assessed, levied, or collected."
. By these provisions, it appears that the state tax and the tax
necessary to pay the funded or bonded debt of the state, the
tax for the current county expenditures, and for schools, are
to be assessed, levied, and collected in the several counties of
the state as a matter of positive duty by the county courts of
the several counties, according to their previous practice, without the intervention of any other authority. All other taxes,
which include the tax sought to be collected in this proceeding, can be assessed, levied, and collected only under the limitations and conditions therein prescribed; that is to say, the
county court being first satisfied that there exists a necessity
for the assessment, levy, and collection of such other tax, shall
request the prosecuting attorney for the county to present a
petition to the circuit court of the county, or to the judge
thereof in vacation,, setting forth the facts, and specifying the
reasons why such other tax or taxes should be assessed, levied,
and collected. In pursuance of that request the prosecuting
attorney is required to present such a petition, and the circuit
court, or judge thereof, to whom such petition is presented,
shall make an order directed to the county court of such
county, commanding such court to have assessed, levied, and
collected such tax, "upon being satisfied of the -necessity for
such other tax or taxes, and that the assessment, levy, and collection thereof will not be in conflict with the constitution and
laws of this state." Section 6800 provides, that any county
court judge, or other conity officer, who shall assess, levy, or
collect, or attempt so to do, or cause to be assessed, levied,
or collected, any tax, without being first ordered so to do by
the circuit court of the county, in the express manner pro-

291-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886-

Opinion of the Court.

vided and directed in the preceding section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, to be punished on convictioni by a fine of not
less than $500 and a forfeiture of his office; and it is therein
declared that "the method herein provided for the assessment,
levy, and collection of any tax or taxes not enumerated and
specified in § 6M98, shall be the only method known to the. law
whereby such tax or taxes may be assessed or collected, or
ordered
to be assessed, levied, or collected."
. It is because
of these provisions of the law that the respondent herein, as he sets out in his return, has been restrained by
an injunction from the circuit court of Cape Girardeau
County from further proceeding in the collection of the tax
heretofore levied by the county court by virtue of a writ of
mandamus from the Circuit Court of the United States.
The question presented for our determination is, whether,
by virtue of this statute of the state, he is justified in his disobedience to the judgment and mandate of the Circuit Court
of the United States. It is well settled by the decisions of
this court that "the remedy subsisting in a state, when and
where the contract is made and is to be performed, is a part
of its obligation, and any subsequent law of the state which
so affects that remedy as substantially to impair and lessen the
value of the contract is forbidden by the Constitution, and is
therefore void." Edwards v. .earzey, 96 U. S. 595, 607.
It had been previously said upon a review of the decisions
of the court, in Torn Hoffmaln v. City of Quinoy, 4 Wall. 535,
553: "It is competent for the states to change the form of
the remedy, or to modify it otherwise as they may see fit, provided no substantial right secured by the contract is thereby
impaired. N7o attempt has been made to fix definitely the
line between alterations of the remedy which are to be deemed
legitimate and those which, under the form of modifying the
remedy, impair substantial rights. Every case must be determined upon its own circumstances, Whenever the result last
mentioned is produced the act is within the prohibition of the
Constitution, and to that extent void."
In Bronson v. _inzie,,1 How. 311, 31'7, Chief Justice Taney
said: "It is difficult, perhaps, to draw a line that would be

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
.Opinion of the Court.

applicable in all cases between legitimate alterations of the
remedy and provisions which, in the form of remedy, impair
the right. But it is manifest that the obligation of the contract, and the rights of a party under it, may, in effect, be destroyed by denying a remedy altogether; or may be seriously
impaired by burdening the proceedings with new conditions
and restrictions, so as to make the remedy hardly worth
pursuing."
In Louisina v. .3ew Orleams, 102 U. S. 203, 206, Mv[r. Justice Field, in the opinion of the court, said: "The obligation
of a contract, in the constitutional sense, is the means pr6vided
by law by which it can be enforced - by which the parties
can be obliged to perform it. Whatever legislation lessens
the efficacy of these means impairs the obligation. If it tend
to postpone or retard the enforcement of the contract, the
obligation of the latter is to that extent weakened."
In various forms, but with the same meaning, this rule has
been often repeated in subsequent decisions by this court. It
is, therefore, not denied in argument in the present case that
§ 2 of the act of March 23, 1868, under which the municipal
obligations of the relator which had passed into judgment
were issued, constitutes a part of the contract to the benefit of
which he is entitled. That section, it will be remembered,
provides that to pay -the interest and principal on any bond
which may be issued under the authority thereof, "the county
court shall from time to time .levy and cause to be collected,
in the same manner as county taxes, a special tax," &c.
The precise question, therefore, for present adjudication is,
whether the provisions for levying and collecting such a tax,
contained in the sections of the Revised Statutes above quoted,
are, in view of the doctrine of this court on that subject, a legal
equivalent for the provision contained in the act of March 23,
1868. The affirmative of that proposition is contended for by
the plaintiff in error. The argument in 'upport of that position
is, that the nachinery provided for the collection of such a tax
in § 6799 is purely formal; that it does not touch the substance of the right to have the tax levied and collected, nor
does it embarrass and impede it by any unreasonable hindrance

OCTOBER TERM, 1886
Opinion of the Court.

or delay. It is said that, according to its terms, under a judgment upon such municipal bonds and coupons in a Circuit
Court of the United States, it would be the duty of the county
court to enter of record that it was satisfied of the existence
of the necessity for the levy and collection of such a tax, and
-thereupon to request the prosecuting attorney to file his petition to the circuit court of the county to obtain the proper
order therefor; that it would then be the duty of the prosecuting attorney to fie such a petition, and that the circuit bourt,
or a judge thereof, on the production of the judgment.required
to be paid, would be satisfied of the necessity for such tax,
and that the assessment, levy, and collection thereof would
not be in conflict with the constitution and laws of the state,

even although he might be of the opinion that the bonds themselves were not valid according to the laws of the state; and
that, accordingly, the- order would be made and directed to
the.county court, commanding that court to have assessed,
levied, and collected the tax, the necessity for the collection
of which they had already declared upon their own records.
The point of the argument pressed upon us seems to be, that
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States upon
the bonds and coupons would necessarily be conclusive, in the
opinion of the county court and of the prosecuting attorney
and of the circuit court of the county, upon all matters of
law and of fact which otherwise, by this section of the statute,
would be committed to the exercise of their judicial discretion.
And that, consequently, everything to be done by them under
the provisions of that section would thereby become merely
ministerial, so that, in case of their refusal to act, they would
be ubject, at the suit of the judgment creditor, to a proceeding by mandamus to compel them to proceed in the assessment, levy, and collection of the tax to which he was entitled.
But ti.e contract which the relatQr is entitled to insist upon
under the act of -March 23, 1868, is, that he shall- have a special tax for the payment of the principal and interest due him,
to be levied from time to time " in the same manner as county
taxes." It maybe admitted that the legislature, from time to
time, notwithstanding this provision, 'might by subsequent

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

legislationc change the mode and the means for the assessment,
levy, and collection of codnty taxes, as in its judgment the
public interests should require. Any stch changes, made in
view of public interests, not substan4tially to the prejudice of
public creditors, might be considered, in respect to them, as
the legal equivalent for the particular mode .in force in 1868,
and a fair and reasonable substitute therefor. Ordinarily, it
would be true that such altered provisions would nof be injurious to any private rights, for the creditor would at all times
have the guaranty of as prompt and speedy a collection of a
tax in satisfaction of his claim as is secured by law for the collection of the revenues of the county; most important for the
support of its government.
It-may, therefore, be considered as a most materi{ and important part of the contract contained in the second section of
the act of March 23, 1868, not, perhaps, that the creditor shall
always have a right to have taxes for his benefit collected in
the same manner in which county taxes were collectible at that
date, but that he shall at least 'always have the right to a
special tax to be levied and collected in the same manner as
county taxes at the same time may be levied and collected.
In other words, the essential part and value of the contract is,
that he shall always have a special tax to be collected in a
manner as prompt and efficacious as that which shall at the
time, when he applies for it, be provided by law for the collection of the general revenue of the county. His contract is
not only that he shall have as good a remedy as that provided by the terms of the contract when made, but that his
remedy shall *be by means of a tax, in reference to which the
levy and collection shall be as efficacious as the state provides
for the benefit of its counties, without -any discrimination
against him.
It is in this vital point that the obligation of the contract
with the relator has been impaired by-the section of the law
under which the respondent seeks to justify -his disobedience
of the mandate of the Circuit Court. Those sections provide
one mode for the collection of county taxes by the direct
action of the county court; 'they provide another mode for

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the collection of the special tax for the payment of obligations
such as those held by the relator and merged in his judgnient.
They expressly declare that he shall not be entitled to a tax
collected in the same manner as county taxes, but add limitations and conditions which, whatever may have-been the legislative motive, compared with the original remedy proviled by
the law for the satisfaction of his contract, cannot fail seriously to embarrass, hinder, and delay him in the collection of
his debt, and which make an express and injurious discrimination against him.
We are referred by counsel for the plaintiff in error to the
case of ZHawley v. Fairbanks,108 U. S. 543, as an authority in
support of his contention. In that case, however, a peremptory mandamus was awarded to compel the levy and collection of a tax for the payment of a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States, notwithstanding an injunction to
the. contrary issued out of the state court. And it was there
held that the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United
States against the municipality was a sufficient warrant and'
authority to the county clerk to make the assessment of a tax
for its payment, notwithstanding the omission of the preliminary certificates of the town clerk and the allowance by the
board of auditors of the town, which in other cases the law
made necessary to the orderly levy and collection of the tax.
We have, also been furnished with the opinipn of the Supreme
Court of the State of Missouri, in the case of State ex rel. Cramer v. Judges of the County Court of (aje Girardeau County,
8 Western Reporter, 626, delivered March "21, 1887, affirming
the judgment of the circuit court of Cape Girardeau County,
perpetuating the injunction set up in the return of the respondent in this case as an answer to the alternativo mandamus. The judge delivering the opinion of the court' says: "It
has been ruled by this court that taxes of the nature now in
question can only be levied- and collected in the manner provided in said section (§ 6799), and that unless the methods prescribed are pursued, the failure to pursue them, when, as here,
they are the conditions essential to the exercise of the power,
will render the tax invalid. State v. HanniaZ & St. Joseph

SEIBERT v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

.Rilroad,87 Missouri, 236. Here, those methods, those conditions precedent, were not followed; and hence the county court,
having no inherent power to levy a tax, and deriving its only
authority from the state, must of necessity pursue the course
in this regard marked out by the sovereign authority - by its
laws." The court further proceeds to say that the matter is
not affected by the mandate of the Federal court, in referenee
to which the opinion proceeds as follows: "If, as already seen,
the county court was -powerless to act, except when acting in
conformity to express statutory conditions, it was - still the
duty of the. judges to comply with those conditions while
yielding obedience to the mandate aforesaid; for, outside of.
those statutory conditions, they were utterly powerless to act.
Indeed, under § 6800, they were punishable for a misdemeanor
in failing to comply with the provisions of § 6799 before levying the tax. It does not stand to reason that their act could be
valid, and at the same time punishable as a crime. State v. Garroute, 67 Missouri; 445, 456. If the statutory provisions being
discussed were of such a nature as to cut off those who obtained
the judgments from enforcing the obligations held by them,
then the. authorities cited on their behalf might apply. I understand that it is within the power of the state to change the
remedy, so long as it does not essentially affect the right embodied in the contiact; and that such change, thus made does
not infract the rule that forbids the contract to be impaired."
The opinion assumes that the remedy for the collectidn of
the tax provided by the sections of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri referred to is legally equivalent to that contained in
2 of the act. of March 23, 1868, the differences between them
not appearing to have been considered. It also assumes, for
that reason, that those piovisions of the Revised Statutes are
the only laws in force for the collection of such a tax- those
in force in 1871, when the judgment of the Circuit Court was
rendered, having been repealed.
For the reasons which we have pointed out, we are unable
to concur in the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri,
and are constrained to hold that the sections of the Revised
Statutes in question impair the obligation of the c6ntract with

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

the relator under the act of March 23, 1868, and as to him are,
therefore, null and void by force of the Constitution of the
United States; and that the laws of Missouri, for the collection of the tax necessary to pay his judgment, in force at the
time when it was rendered, continue to be and are still in
force for that purpose. They are the laws of the state which
are applicable to his case. When he seeks and obtains the
writ of mandamus from the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the purpose of levying a tax for the payment of
the judgment which it has rendered in his favor, he asks and
obtains only the enforcement of the laws of Missouri under
which his rights became vested, and which are preserved for
his benefit by the Constitution of the United States. The
question, therefore, is not whether a tax shall be levied in
Missouri without the authority of its law, but which of several
of its laws arein force and govern the case. Our conclusion is,
that the statutory provisions relied upon by the respondent in
his return to the alternative writ of mandamus do not apply,
and do not, therefore, afford the justification which he pleads.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly aJfirmed.

MINNEAPOLIS 6AS LIGHT COMPANY v. KERR
MURRAY MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

THE DISTRICT OF

STATES

FOR

=1INESOTA.

Argued May 9, 1887.-Decided May 27j,187.

From the evidence in this case the court is satisfied that the verbal contract
which forms the subject of the controversy did not Jix any time for the
completion of the work, and that the work was completed within a reasonable time; and it affirms the decree of the court below.

LNT equity to enforce a mechanics' lien. Decree for the complainant. The respondent appealed. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.

