OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN AND SOUTHERN
RAILWAY v. VICKERS.
ERROR TO TUE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued May 2,188.-Decided May 27, 1SST.

A state constitution cannot prohibit judges of the courts of the United
States from charging juries with regard to matters of fact.

THE defendant in error sued the plaintiff in error in a state
court of Arkansas to recover damages for personal injuries
sustained by him while a passenger on one of the trains of
the company. On the defendant's motion the cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, where a
general answer was made, denying negligence, ifnd averring
contributory negligence. The injuries were alleged to have
been caused by the negligence of the defendant's employes
in violently projecting a locomotive and one or more freight
cars against the forward one of several cars, in the rear of
,one of which was the coach in which the plaintiff was ,a passenger. This occurred during the process of shifting cars at
a place known as Barham's Station in Oachita County Arkansas. It was alleged that the plaintiff was passing from 'the
closet to his seat, and that the shock of the collision precipitated him upon the floor of the car with the result of the injuries of which lie complained.
The defendant answered, denying any negligence on its part
or on the part of its employes, and charging the plaintiff
with -contributory negligence.
The case was tried before a jury. It was shown in evidence
that a iolent storm was in progress at the time when the
plaintiff received his injuries. The testimony conflicted materially as to the violence of the shock in the attempted coupling, as to whether it was extraordinary or not more than usual
violence; as to' the position of the plaintiff at the time the
coupling was made; whether he had just left the closet and

-ST. LOUIS, &c., RAILWAY v. VICKERS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

was returning to his seat, or had been for some minutes
standing in the aisle and looking out of the rear door. There
were also other points of conflict in the testimony.
The assignments of error were the following:
1. The court erred in instructing the jury as follows:
"Counsel for the plaintiff told you that you might find a
verdict for'plaintiff for any sum from one sent to $25,000.
This is true in one sense. You have the power to render a
verdict for one cent or for $25,000, but a verdict for either of
these sums would obviously be a false verdict, for if the plaintiff is entitled to a verdict at all, and upon this point you will
probably have no difficulty, as the evidence clearly shows negligence and consequent liability on the defendant, though this
is a question. of fact exclusively within your province to determine- I say, if plaintiff is entitled to a verdict at all he
is entitled to recover more than one cent, and it is equally
clear that $25,00( would be greatly in excess of what he
ought to recover."
2. The court erred in instructin.g the jury as follows: "The
plaintiff is entitled to a reasonable compensation for his injuries, and whether they were the result of the negligence of
an agent of a corporation or a natural person, can have no
bearing in determining what that compensation shall be."
fr&. Ahn F. 1)il/

for plaintiff in error.

The constitution of Arkansas, Art. VII, ยง 23, provides
that "judges shall not charge juries with regard to matters
of fact, but shall declare the law, and in jury trials shall reduce their charge or instructions to writing on the request of
either party."
In this case the matters of fact in issue were the alleged
negligence of the defendant and contributory negligence of
the plaintiff.
We submit that this constitutional provision should be followed by the Federal courts sitting as courts of common law
in the state of Arkansas; and that this case is to be distinguished from _N'cud v. Bum'ows, 91 U. S. 426, and Inilianapolis Raibroadv. Bors.t, 93 U. S. 291.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

Chief Justice Taney, delivering the opinion of this court in
Xiteltll v. Harnony, 13 How. 115, said: "The practice in
this respect differs in different states. In some of them the
court neither sums up the evidence in a charge to the jury nor
expresses an opinion upon a question of fact. Its charge is
strictly confined to questions of law, leaving the evidence to
be discussed by counsel, and the facts to be decided by the
jury without commentary or opinion by the court. But in
most of the states the practice is otherwise; and they have
adopted the usage of the English courts of justice, where the
judge always sums up the evidence, and points out the conclusions which in his opinion ought to be drawn from it; submitting them, however, to the consideration and judgment of
the jury. It is not necessary to inquire which of these modes
of proceeding most conduces to the purposes of justice. It is
sufficient to say that.either of them may be adopted under the
laws of Congress. And as it is desirable that the practice in
the courts of the United States should conform as nearly as
practicable to that of the state in which they are sitting, that
mode of proceeding is perhaps to be preferred which, from
long established- usage and practice, has become the law of the
courts of the state."
It is submitted that the act of Congress of Sune 1, 1872, 17
Stat. 197, ยง 5, should be construed in harmony with this decision.
It has been repeatedly held in Arkansas that it iserror to
assume, in the instructions to the jury, the existence of the
facts in issue. .Montgomery v. Erwin, 24 Ark. 540; Floyd v.
Ricks, 14 Ark. 286 [. C. 58 Am. Dec. 374]; State Bankc v.
-MIcGuire, 14 Ark. 537; Atkins v. State, 16 Ark. 568, 593;
Arnistead v. B'rooke, 18 Ark. 521; Burr v. TTHlliarns, 20
Ark. 171.
And that an instruction should not, be given
which intimates to the jury the opinion of the court as to the
weight of the evidence. 1?ando/p1 v. AXc.Cains' Administrator,34 Ark. 696.
X F. T. Compton for defendant in error submitted'on his
brief.

WHITSITT v. UNION DEPOT.
Counsel for Parties.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinibn of the court.

This judgment* is affirmed on the authority of Vicksburg
and .feridian Railroad Co. v. Puna/m, 118 U. S. 545; Nudd
v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, 441; Indianapolis, c., Railroad.v.
Horst, 93 U. S. 291, 299. A state constitution cannot, any
more thahi a state statute, prohibit the judges of the courts of
the United States from charging juries with regard to matters
of fact.
Afflrned.

WIITSITT v. '1TION DEPOT AND RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED-STATE4 FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted My 11, 1887.-Decided May 27,1887.
On the 6th of October, 1880, a decree was entered in a Circuit Court of the
United States dismissing a bill brought to quiet title. Complainant appealed, and the appeal was dismissed at October Term, 1880, it not ap.
pearing that the matter in dispute exceeded $5000. In the Circuit Court
W. then suggested the complainant/s death, appeared as sole heir and
devisee, filed affidavits to .show that the amount in dispute exceeded
$5000, and took another appeal August 30, 1881, Which appeal was docketed here September 24, 1881, and was dismissed April 5, 1884, for want
of prosecution. Another appeal .was allowed by the Circuit Court in
September, 1884, and citation was issued anl served, and the case was
docketed here again. Hed: That the decree appealed from being rendered in 1880, an appeal from it taken in 1884 Was too late.

BILL in equity. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinioi" of the court.
Ar. E. T. WTells for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.

