GIBSON v. SIIUFELDT.
Statement of the Case.

notes, if possible, a sufficient statement of some ruling in
matter of law
But to assume to do that would be to taske upon ourselves
the duty of drawing up a proper bill of exceptions, a duty
which belonged to the excepting prty, and should have been
performed before sung out the writ of- error. This we are
not authorized to do. Our duty and authority are limited to
determining the validity of exceptions duly framed and presented.
The defendants having failed to reduce ther exceptions
to such a form that this court can pass upon them, the judgment must be affirmed. Suydam v WMlliamson, 20 How
427, Inrance Co. v. Sea, above cited.
Judgment affirmed.

GIBSON v. SEIFELDT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGIWIA.
Submitted April 11, 1887.-Decided May 23, 1887.

In a suit in equity brought in'he Circuit Court by two or more persons on
several and distinctfdemands, the defendant can appeal to this court as to
those plaintiffs only to each of whom more than $5000 is decreed.
A debtor having made an assignment of ins property to a trustee to secure
a preferred debt of more than $5000, other creditors filed a bill in equity
in the Circuit Court against the debtor, the trustee, and the preferred
creditor; the defendants denied the allegations of the bill, but asked
no affirmative relief, and the decree adjudged the assignment to be
fraudulent and void as against the plaintiffs, and ordered the property to
be distributed among them. Held, that this court had no 3urisdiction of
an appeal by the defendants, except as to those plaintiffs who had recovered more than $5000 each.

Tis was a motion to dismiss an appeal in equity The material facts, appearing by the record, were as follows Jenkins
made a deed of assignment of a large amount of property to
Watkins, in timst-to sell it and to apply the proceeds to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

payment of his debts, first, to Gibson for more than $20,000,
next, to other persons named, and lastly, to his creditors generally Shufeldt & Co. filed a bill in equity in the Circuit
Court against Jenkins, Watkins and Gibson, to have the
assignment set aside as fraudulent and void against themselves and other unpreferred creditors of Gibson, and for
general relief. The Mill Creek Distilling Company filed a
similar bill. The defendants answered severally, denying the
allegations of the bills, and praying to be dismissed with costs.
By consent of the parties and order of the court, the two bills
and intervening petitions of other unpreferred creditors were
heard together as one cause. At the hearing upon pleadings
and proofs, a receiver was appointed, the assignment was adjudged to be fraudulent and void as to the plaintiffs and petitioners, and the case was referred to a master, and upon the
return of is report a final decree was entered for the distribution of the fund in the receiver's hands, paying $6756.22 to
the Mill Creek Distilling Company, $3943.21 to Shufeldt &
Co., and a less sum to each of the petitioning creditors. Gibson and Watkins appealed to this court, and the appellees now
moved to dismiss the appeal as to all of themselves except the
Mill Creek Distilling Company
X& Asstant Attorney GeneraZ .aury (with whom were
2[r WilliamTW Crump and 2.r John A. Coke) for the motion.
No one opposing.
MR. JusTicE GR.AY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented by this motion can hardly be considered an open one. But the subject has been so often msunderstood, that the court has thought it convenient to review
the former decisions, and the grounds on wich they rest.
By the act of February 16, 1875, c. 77, ยง 3, which differs
from earlier laws only in increasing the amount required to
give tis court appellate jurisdiction from a Circuit Court of
the United States, it is necessary that "the matter in dispute

GIBSON v. SHUFELDT.
Opinion of the Court.

shall exceed the sum or value of five thousand dollars, exclusive of costs." 18 Stat. 316.
The sum or value really in dispute between the paries in
the case before this court, as shown by the whole record, is
the test of its appellate jurisdiction, without regard to the
collateral effect of the judgment in another suit between the
same or other parties. .Elgi v. tarshall, 106 U. S. 578,
Hilton v Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165, The Jessze TFilliamson,
J'., 108 U. S. 305, N ew Jersey Zinc Co. v Trotter, 108 U. S.
564:, Opelika v .Dansel,109 U. S. 108, Wabash, &c., Railroad v. Knox, 110 U. S. 304, Bradstreet Co. v Higgzns, 112
U. S. 227, Bruce v. .Manchester& -Yeene Railroad,117 U. S.

514.
The value of property sued for is not always the matter in
dispute. In replevin, for instance, if the action is brought as
a means of trying the title to property, the value of the property replevied is the matter in dispute, but if the replevin is
of property distrained for rent, the amount for which avowry
is made is the real matter in dispute, and the limit of jurisdiction. Peyton v Robertson, 9 Wheat. 527.
When the object of a suit is to apply property worth more,
to the. payment of a. debt for less, than the jurisdictional
amount, it is the amount of the debt, and not the value of the
property, that determines the jurisdiction of this court. This
is well illustrated by two cases, in one of which the appeal was
taken by the creditor, and in the other by a mortgagee of the
property
In Farmers'Bank of Alexandri v. Hooff, 7 Pet. 168, this
court dismissed an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court
for the District of Columbia, dismissing a bill to have land,
worth more than $1000, sold for the payment of a debt of less
than $1000, which was the limit of jurisdiction, Chief Justice
Marshall saying, "The real matter in controversy is the debt
claimed in the bill, and though the title of the lot may be inquired into incidentally, it does not constitute the object of the
suit."
In Ross v Pre7 Fss, 3 How 771, land worth more, and mortgaged for more, than $2000. was about to be sold on execution

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

for a debt of a less sum, and a bill -by the mortgagee to stay
the sale was dismissed. He appealed to this court, and mesisted that its jurisdiction depended on the value of the property and the amount of his interest therem, and that he might
lose the whole benefit of his mortgage by a forced sale on execution. But the appeal was dismissed, Chief Justice Taney
saying "The only matter in controversy between the parties
is the amount clained on the execution. The dispute is
whether the property in question is liable to be charged with
it or not. The jurisdiction does not depend on the amount
of. any contingent loss or damage which one of the parties
may sustain by a decision against hun, but upon the amount
in dispute between them, and as that amount is in this case
below two thousand dollars, the appeal must be dismissed."
When a suit is brought by two or more plaintiffs, or against
two or more defendants, or to recover or charge property
owned or held by different persons, (which more often happens under the flexible and comprehensive forms of proceeding
in equity and admiralty, than under the stricter rules of the
common law,) the question what is the matter in dispute becomes more difficult. Generally speaking, however, it may be
said, that the joinder in one suit of several plaintiffs or defendants, who might have sued or been sued in separate actions,
does not ,enlarge the appellate jurisdiction, that when property or money is claimed by several persons suing together,
the test is whether they clai it under one common right, the
adverse party having no interest in its apportionment or distribution among them, or claim it under separate and distinct
rights, each of which is contested by the adverse party, that
when two persons are sued, or two parcels of property are
sought to be recovered or charged, by one person m one suit,
the test is whether the defendants' alleged liability to the
plaintiff, or claim to the property, is joint or several, and that,
so far as affected by any sucn joinder, the right of appeal as
mutual, because the matter in dispute between the parties is
that which is asserted on the one side and denied on the other.
In the leading case of Oliver v Alexander, 6 Pet. 143, upon
a libel in admiralty against the owners of a vessel to recover

GIBSON v. SHUFELDT.
Opinion of the Court.

"seamen's wages, and an attachment of the proceeds of the
vessel in the hands of assignees, the libellants obtained a decree for the payment out of those proceeds to them respectively of sums less than $1000, but amounting in all to more
than $2000, and the assignees appealed. This court, at 'January term 1832, in a judgment delivered by Mr. Justice- Story,
dismissed the appeal, for the reasons that the shipping articles
constituted a several contract with each seaman to all intents
and purposes, that, although the libel was in form joint, the
contract with each libellant, as well as the decree in his favor,
was in truth several, and none 'of the others had any interest
in that contract, or could be aggrieved by that decree, that
the matter in dispute between each seaman and the owners,
or other respondents, was the sum or value of his own demand,
without any reference to the demands of others, that it was
very clear, therefore, that no seaman could appeal from the
Circuit Court to tins court, unless his claim exceeded $2000,.
"and the same rule applies to the owners or other respondents, who are not at liberty to consolidate the distinct demands'
-of each seaman into an aggregate, thus making the claims of
the whole the matter in dispute, but they can appeal only
inregard to the demand of a seaman winch exceeds the sum
required by law for that purpose, as a distinct matter in
dispute."
Upon like reasons, in Rch v Lezmbert, 12 How 347, where
a libel by several owners of cargo against the ship to recover
damages by inproper stowage had been consolidated by order
of the court with similar libels by other owners of cargo, and
a decree entered awarding to the libellants respectively various sums, some more and some less than $2000, but amounting in alto more than $10,000, an appeal by the owner of the
ship was dismissed as to all the libellants who had recovered
less than $2000 each. Similar decisions were made at October
term 1882, in two cases of libels to recover damages to ship and
cargo by collision, in one of which the appeal was taken by
the libellants, and in the other by the owner of the vessel
against which the suit was brought. Ex yarte Baltmore &
Ohio Railroad,106 U. S. 5, The NTevada, 106 U. S. 151. See

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

also Clifton v heldon, 23 How 481. In the intermediate case
of The Rw Grande,19 Wall. 1'8, in which material men joinmg in a libel ?n 'rem had severally recovered m the Circuit
Court various sums, a motion by them to dismiss the appeal
of the owners of the vessel was not sustained, because the motion was "to disuss the appeal" generally, and not as to
those only who had recovered sums insufficient to give this
court jurisdiction.
The decisions in cases of salvage illustrate the application of
the rule to different states of facts. From a decree on a libel
for salvage of a ship and cargo, or of several parcels of goods,
belonging to different owners. when the salvage demanded
against the whole exceeds the jurisdictional limit, but the
amount chargeable on the property of each owner is within
it, no appeal lies, either by the salvors or by the owners.
Stratton v Jarns, 8 Pet. 4, Spear v Place, 11 How 522.
The reasons for tlns were summed up by Clef Justice Taney
as follows "The salvage service is entire, but the goods of
each owner are liable only for the salvage with winch they
are charged, and have no common liability for the amounts
due from the ship or other portions of the cargo. It is a
separate and distinct controversy between himself and The
salvors, and not a common and undivided one, for which the
property is jointly liable." Sheld, v. Thomas, 17 How 3, 6.
Because the salvage service is entire, and is the common
service of all the salvors acting together, and the salvage
awarded is for that service, and the matter in dispute is the
amount due the salvors collectively, and it is of no consequence to the owner of the property saved how the money
recovered is apportioned among those who have earned it,
this court has since decided that the owner of a ship may
appeal from a decree against the ship for salvage which exceeds the sum of $5000, although the amount awarded to each
salvor is less than that sum. The Connemara, 103 U. S. 751.
Upon like grounds, it was held in the case of The 2fMamze,
105 U. S. 773, that from a decree dismissing a petition to
obtain the benefit of the act of Congress limiting the liability
of shipowners, the owner of the vessel imght appeal, even if

GIBSON v. SHUFELDT.
Opinion of the Court.

the value of the thing surrendered was less than $5000, when
the claims against it were for much more -than twice that
sum in the aggregate, though for only $5000 each, because, as
explained m Ewparte Baltimore d Ozo Railroad,106 U. S. 5,
the matter in dispute was the owner's right to surrender the
vessel, and to be discharged from all further liability, and if
that right was established, he had nothing to do with -the
division of the fund thus created among those having claims
against it.
To the same class may perhaps be assigned Rodd v. Heartt,
17 Wall. 351, whiere the appeal, which the court declined to
dismiss, was by many creditors, secured by one mortgage for
more than $5000, from a decree sn rem, postponing that mortgage to claims of material men upon the vessel, but the
report, both of the facts and the opinion, is so brief, that
it is difficult to ascertain exactly upon what ground the court
proceeded.
In equity, as in admiralty, when the sum sued for is one in
which the plaintiffs have a joint and common interest, and the
defendant has nothing to do with its distribution among
them, the whole sum sued for is the test of the jurisdiction.
The earliest Pase of that class i Szel& v. 7wmas,17 How
3, in which this court held that an appeal would lie from a
decree in equity, ordering a defendant, who had converted to
his own use property of an intestate, to pay to the plaintiffs,
distributees of the estate, a sum of money exceeding $2000,
and apportioning it among them in shares less than that sum.
The case was distinguished from those of Oliver v Alexander and Rick v. Lamlert, above cited, upon the following
grounds
"The matter in controversy," said Chief Justice Taney,
"was the sum due to the representatives of the deceased collectively, and not the particular sum to which each was
entitled, when the amount due was distributed among them,
according to the laws of the State. They all claimed under
one and the same title. They had a common and undivided
interest in the claim, and it was perfectly immaterial to the
appellant how it was to be shared among them. He had no
VOL. cx--x-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

controversy with either of them on that point, and if there
was any difficulty as to the proportions in which they were to
share, the dispute was among themselves, and not -with hun.
"It is like acontract with several to pay a sum of money
It may be that the money, when recovered, is to be divided
between them in equal or unequal proportions. Yet, if a controversy arises on the contract, and the sum in dispute upon it
exceeds two thousand dollars, an appeal would clearly lie to
this court, although the interest of each individual was less
than that sum."
v Dawson, 110 U. S.
To the same class belongs Freem
264, in which the only matter m dispute was the legal title to
the whole of a fund of more than $5000, as between a judgment creditor and the grantee in a deed of Trust, no question
arose of payment to or distribution among the cestuis que
trust, and this court therefore-took jurisdiction of an appeal
by the trustee from a decree in favor of the judgment creditor.
In XYarket Co. v Hofman, 101 U. S. 112, in which, upon
the bill of a number of occupiers of stalls in a market, a perpetual injunction was granted to restrain the market company
from selling the stalls by auction, the reason assigned by this
court for entertaining the appeal of the company was that
"the case is one of two hundred and six complaiants suing
jointly, the decree is a single one in favor of them all, and in
denial of the right claimed by the company, which is of far
greater value than the sum which, by the act of Congress, is
the limit below which an appeal is not allowable."
But in equity, as in admiralty, when several persons join in
one suit ,to assert several and distinct interests, and those interests alone are in dispute, the amount of the interest of each
is the limit of the appellate jursdiction.
In Seaver v Btgelows, 5 Wall. 208, a bill in equity by two
judgment creditors for less than $1000 each, against their
debtor and a person alleged to have fraudulently obtained possession of a fund of more than $2000 in value, to compel satisfaction of the debts out of that fund, was dismissed, -and the
plaintiffs appealed. This court dismissed the appeal for lack of
jurisdiction, Mr. Justice Nelson saying "The judgment cred-

GIBSON v. SH-UFELDT.
Opimon of the Court.

itors who have joined in tins bill have separate and distinct
interests, depending upon separate and distinct judgments:
In no event could the sum in dispute of either party exceed
the amount of their judgment, winch is less than $2000. The
bill being dismissed, each fails in obtaining payment of ins demands. If it had been sustained, and a decree rendered in
their favor, it would only have been for the amount of the
judgment of each." "It is true, the ]5.gation involves a common fund, which exceeds the sum of $2000, but neither of the
judgment creditors has any interest in it exceeding the amount
of his judgment. Hence, to sustam an appeal in this class of
cases, wliere separate and distinct interests are in dispute, of
an amount less than the statute -requires, and where the
joinder of parties is permitted by the mere indulgence of the
court, for its convenience, and to save expense, would be giving a privilege to the parties not common to other litigants,
and winch is forbidden by law"
In that case, indeed, the whole amount of both debts did
not exceed $2000. But the opinion, as appears by the reasoning above quoted, and by the reference in it to Oliver v Alexander and _?'ek v. Lamhert, above cited, was evidently framed
to cover two other cases, argued and decided contemporaneously with Seaver v Bige?ows, winch do not appear in the
official reports, except in tins brief note "Similar decree
made for the same reason in the case of Field v Btgelow, and
in one branch of .Myers v Tenn." 5-Wall. 211, note. The
opinions of Mr. Justice Nelson in those two cases, remaining
on file, and published in the edition of the Lawyers' Coperative Publishing Company, (Bk. '18,:p. 604,) show the following
facts In Field v Bigelow, the whole amount of debts sued
for was more, although each debt was less, than $2000, and
Mr. Justice Nelson said, ":No one of the three separate and
distinct classes of creditors held a judgment exceeding $2000.
Neither judgment creditor, therefore, is entitled to an appeal
.to this court within the statute, as decided in the case of Seaver
v. Bigelow." In .Ayers v Fenn, the appeal was dismissed, on
the authority of Seaver v. Btgelows, as to creditors whose
claims were severally less, but not as to those whose claims
were severally more, than that sum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

So in ?ussell v. ,Stame-7, 105 U. S. 303,, where all the lands
within a particular district were assessed to pay a decree
against the levee board of the district, and the amount assessed
to each owner was less than $5000, and a bill filed by them
jointly for an injunction against the collection of the assessment was dismissed, it was held that they could not appeal,
because, as observed by the Chief Justice, "their object was
to relieve each separate owner from the amount for which he
personally, or his property, was found to be accountable," and
" although the amount due the appellee from the levee district
exceeds $5000, his claun on the several owners of property is
only for the sum assessed against them respectively" See
also Chaield v Boyle, 105 U. S. 231, Adim8 v. iittendm,
106 U. S. 576.
The same rule has been applied in many recent cases where
the appeal has been taken by the party who had been ordered
by the decree below to pay several distinct claims amounting
together to more than $5000.
In Schwed v Smith, 106 U. S. 188, property worth more.
than $5000 having been taken on execution upon a judgment
confessed by the owners in favor of one Heller for more than
$5000, subsequent attaching creditors, whose claims were
jointly more, but severally less, than that sum, filed a bill
in equity against the debtors, Heller and the sheriff, and obtained a decree declaring Heller's judgment void as against
the plaintiffs. An appeal by the defendants was dismissed on
motion for want of jurisdiction, the Chief Justice saying, "1It
is impossible to distinguish this case in principle from Seaver
v B-geZows, 5 Wall. 208." "1
If the decree is several as to the
creditors, it is difficult to see why it is not as to their adversaries. The theory is, that, although the proceeding is in form
but one suit, its legal effect is the same as though separate
suits had been begun on each of the separate causes of action."
"Although the effect of the decree is to deprive Heller in the
aggregate of more than $5000, it has been done at the suit of
several parties on several claims, who might have sued separately, but whose suits have been joined inone for convenience
and to save expense."

GIBSON v. SHUFELDT.
Opinion of the Court.

In Farmere'Loan & Tutmt .Co. v. Waterman 106 U.*S. 265,
the purchasers of a railroad subject to the debts of intervening
petitioners appealed from a decree ordering them to pay various sums to the petitioners respectively, amounting in all to
more than $5000, and the appeal was dismissed as to those
petitioners whose debts were severally less than that sum.
asaZ v. ilRcox, 115 U. S. 598, a similar decision
And in
was made upon an appeal by the trustee in a railroad mort-gage from a decree in favor of several creditors claiming prior
liens.
In Fourth _YationaZ Bank v. Stout, 113 U. S. 684, the court
dismissed the appeal of a bank from .a decree adjudging that
it held property of another corporation in trust for the creditors of the latter, (one of whom had fil6d the bill, and the
others had intervened by leave of court pending the suit,) and
'directing the bank to pay to the creditors severally sums of
less than $5000, amounting in all to more than $5000.
In Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U. S."61, upon a bill .in equity
in behalf of judgment creditors, (including some who came in
pending the suit,) against their debtor and one to whoM he
had made a conveyance of property alleged to be fraudulent
and void as against his creditors, by the decree below the conveyance was adjuidged to have been made to hinder, delay
and defraud creditors, with the knowledge and connivance of
the grantee, and was cancelled, set aside, and declared to be
null and void, and the def6ndants were ordered to pay out of
the property to the plaintiffs respectively various sums, one of
which was more and-the others less than $5000; and the defendants to6k an appeal, which was dismissed as to all the
creditors except the one to whom more than $5000 had been
awarded.
Upon the same principle, neither party can appeal from a
decree upon a bill by a single plaintiff to enforce separate and
distinct liabilities against several defendants, if the sum for
which .each is alleged or found to be liable is less than the
jurisdictional amount. For instance, it was decided in Paqjing
Co. V. _M/yuo'rd, 100 U. S. 147, that the plaintiff could not
appeal from the dismissal of i bill to assert a right against two

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants in two distinct certificates of indebtedness, held
by them severally, for sums severally less, though together
more, than that amount; and in E parte Phwnix Ins. Co.,
117 U. S. 361,that four insurance companies could not appeal
from a decree that each of them should pay $3000 to the
plaintiff.
In the less frequent instances in which similar questions
have ariseni in proceedings at common law, the same distinc.
tions have been maintained.
Where a writ of mandamus was issued to compel a county
clerk to extend upon a tax-collector's books a sum sufficient to
pay several distinct judgments held by different persons, it was
held that the case was like Seaver v. Bigelows and Sohwed v.
Smith, above cited, and the defendant's right of appeal was
determined by the amount of each judgment. Hawley v.
Fairbanks,108 U. S. 543. But where the writ commanded
a collector to collect a tax of one per cent upon the property
of a county, which had already been levied for the joint
benefit of all the relators, it was held that the case was like
Shields v. Thomas and The Connemara, above cited, and that
the right of appeal depended upon the whole amount of the
tax. Davies v. Corbin, 112 IT. S. 36.
In ejectment against two defendants for two parcels of land,
if each defendant claims only one parcel, the value of each
parcel is the limit of appellate jurisdiction. Tuper v. Wise,
110 U. S. 398; Lynch v. Bailey, 11i0 U. S. 400. But if both
defendants jointly claim both parcels, the value of both is the
test. Friendv. Wise, 111 U. S. 797.
In Henderson v. WVadsworth, 115 UT. S. 264, 276, where, in
an action against heirs upon a debt of their ancestor, separate
judgments were rendered against them for their proportionate
shares, it was held that no one who had been thus charged
with less than $5000 could appeal; and Mr. Justice Woods, in
delivering judgment, referred to 4riany of the cases above
cited, and declared it to be well settled that '1where a judgment or decree against a defendant, who pleads no counterclaim or set-off, and asks no affirmative relief, is brought by
him to this court by writ of error or appeal, the amount in

GIBSON v. SHUFELDT.
Opinion of the Court.

dispute on which the jurisdiction depends is the amount of the
judgment or decree which is sought to be reversed," and that
"neither co-defendants nor co-plaintiffs can unite their separate
and distinct interests for the purpose of making up the amount
necessary to give this court jurisdiction upon writ of error or
appeal."
The true line of distinction, as applied to cases like that now
before us, is sharply brought out by the recent decisions of
Stewart v. Dunhuim, 115 U. S. 61, and Estes v. a .nter, 121
U. S. 183, in each of which a preferred creditor for more than
$5000 was on one side, and general creditors for less than
$5000 each were on the other. In Stewart v. Dunham,the
suit being brought by the general creditors against the debtor
and the preferred creditor to whom the debtor had made the
conveyance alleged to be fraudulent, and the latter seeking no
affirmative relief, the matter in dispute as between the defendants and each of the plaintiffs was the amount of the claim of
that plaintiff; but in Estee v. Gunter, the suit being bxought
by the preferred creditor against the trustee in the deed of
assignment by which he was preferred, and the general creditors being summoned-in as defendants, and themselves asking
no affirmative relief, the matter in dispute was the value of
the debt preferred and of the property assigned to secure the
preference.
The case at bar is exactly like Stewart v. Dunham. The
suit is by the general creditors, only one of whose debts
amounts to $5000; the trustee and the preferred creditor
appear as defendants only, M1e no cross bill, and ask no affirmative relief; and the decree sets aside the fraudulent conveyance so far only as it affects the plaintiffs' rights. The sole
matter in dispute, therefore, is between the defendants and
each plaintiff as to the amount which-the latter shall recover;
and the motion to dismiss the appeal of the defendants as to
all the plaintiffs except the one whose debt exceeds $5000
must be granted.
This result, as we have seen, is in accordance with a long
series of decisions of this court, extending over more than half
a century; During that period Congress has often legislated

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

on the subject of- our appellate jurisdiction, without changing
the phraseology which had received judicial construction.
The court should not now unsettle a rule so long established
and recognized.

.Motion granted.

EANEES v. AN.DREWS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
THE DISTRIC

IRTED STATES FOR

OF CONNE TICUT.

Argued January 6, 7, 1887.--Decded May 23,1887.

The reissued letters-patent, No. 4372, issued to Nelson W. Green, May 9,
1871, for an improved method of constructing artesian wells, are for the
process of drawing water from the earth by means of a well driven in
the manner described in the patent, and are for the same invention
described and claimed in the original letters-patent issued to Green,
January 14, 1868. It is a reasonable inference from the language employed in the original description that the tube, in the'act of being driven
into the earth to and into a water-beariug stratum, would fbrm an airtight connection with the surrounding earth, and that the pump should
be attached to it by an air-tight connection. The changes made in the
amended specification did not enlarge the scope of the patent, or describe a different invention; but only supplied a deficiency in the original
description, by describing with more particularity and exactness the
means to be employed to produce the desired result. The omission in
the second claim of the words, "where no rock is to be penetrated,"
which are found in the first claim, did not change the obvious meaning
of the original claim.
The reissued letters-patent, No. 4372, to Nelson W. Green, were not for the
same subject as the letters-patent issued to James Suggett, March 29,
1864; or those issued to John Goode in England in 1823; nor was the in-.
vention patented in them anticipated in any publication referred to in the
opinion of the court within the rule as to previous publications laid down
In Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; Cohn v. United States Corset Co.,
93 U. S. 366; and Downton v. Yeager Milling Co., 108 U. S. 466.
The evidence shows a clear case of infringement on the part of the defendant in error.

B=Ln in equity to restrain an infringement of letters-patent
for a driven well. Decree for a perpetual injunction, from

which respondent appealed. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.

