OCTOBER .TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

means of payment by taxation. The findings in the judgment
on that point are conclusive. They bind the respondents in
their official capacity, as well as the county itself, because, as
was said in Labette County Commissioners v. .loulton, 112

U. S. 211, they are "the legal representatives of the defendant,
in that judgment, as being the parties on whom the law -has
cast the duty of providing for its satisfaction. They are not
,strangers to it as being new parties on whom an original obligation is sought to be charged, but are bound by it as it stands
without the right to question it, and under a legal duty to
take those steps which the law has prescribed as the only mode
of providing means for its payment."
The return of the respondents, therefore, to the alternative
writ of mandamus is insufficient in law, and the Circuit Court
erred in not awarding to the relator a peremptory writ of
mandamus. For that error
77e judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to award a Peremp)to7ry mandamus.

WALTER v. BICKIIAM.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Submitted May 11, 1887.-Decided May 27, 1887.

B. and M. sued out an attachment against the property of L. and A., who had
made an assignment for the benefit of creditors. The writ coming to
the hands of a marshal of the United States, he indorsed thereon an appointment of a special deputy, leaving the na -ie of the latter blank, and
verbally authorizing the attorney of the attaching creditors to fill the blank
with the name of some " bonded officer." The blank was filled by the
attorney with the name of a sheriff; and, he declining to act, his name
was erased by the attorney, who then inserted the name of a town marshal. The latter having executed the writ by seizing the property of the
debtors, on the same day turned over both the property and the writ. to a
regular deputy of the marshal. Subsequently the court, with the consent of the attaching credlitors, the debtors and the assignee of the

WALTER v. BICKUA

.

Statement of the Case.
debtors, ordered tItL-property to be sold, and the proceeds to be brought
into court for the b~neflt of all their attaching creditors, in cheir order.
After the money was paid to the clerk of the court, other creditors of the
same debtors obtained judgments against them, and, having procured
writs of garnishment to be served on the marshal and clerk, moved to
discharge the levy under the attachment, on the ground that it was
made by an unauthorized person and was void. Held, that the attaching
creditors, the debtors, and the assignee of the' debtors having, in effect,
waived their objections to the manner in which the property was seized;
and the consent order of sale not belig impeached for fraud, subsequent
judgment creditors could not question the validity of the levy, or the
disposition made of the proceeds of the property.

ON.the 29th of September, Bickham & Moore, creditors of
Lake & Austin, sued out from the court below an attachment
against the property of said debtors, directed to the marshal
of the United States for the 1'orthern District of Mississippi.
The writ came to the hands of that officer for execution. The
attorney of the plaintiffs informed him that " he wanted a
blank deputization on a writ of attachment to send to Grenada," which was the place of the residence of the debtors.
This request was at first d~nied, but finally the following indorsement was made on the writ: "I hereby appoint my special deputy to execute this writ, the plaintiff not holding
me for-the acts of such deputy. J. L. Morphis, U. S. Marshal."
The writ, so indorsed, was delivered to the attorney of the
attaching creditors and he proceeded to Grenada; with it.
The marshal testified that he made the above indorsement
with the understanding that the blank ahoitld be filled up with
the name of a "bonded officer." Application being made to
R. A. Hall, sheriff of Grenada County, to execute the writ,
that officer agreed to do so. His name was accordingly inserted in the blgnk left in the indorsement thereon. He subsequently declined to act. Thereupon, the attorney for the
attaching credit6rs erased the name of Hall and filled the
blank with the name of Samuel Ladd, who was a "town marshal. The latter executed the attachment on the 2d of October, 1$83, by levying upon certain prQperty belonging to Lake,
and to Lake & Austin. At a late hour of the same day, a
regular deputy of the marshal appeared at Grenada, and took
VOL. exxI-21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

Statement of the Case.
possession of the personal property which had been previously
seized by Ladd under the writ of attachment. The writ was
also delivered to him by Ladd.
On the 19th day of October, 1883, the following order of
sale was mad; in the cause:
"Upon the application and consent, by attorneys, of all the
creditors who have heretofore sued out attachments in this
court against Lake & Austin, defendants, and upon consent of
said defendants and A. 0. Hebron, claimant, as assignee in the
deed of assignment executed by said Lake & Austin, and with
the consent of all other and non-attaching creditors of said
Lake & Austin, who are this day represented by Messrs. Sullivan & Sullivan and Slack & Longtreet, and it appearing unto
the court that an immediate sale of the effects so assigned and
attached will best promote and subserve. the interests of all
and each and every the creditors of said Lake & Austin;
therefore it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court that
the marshal of this judicial district shall sell at public auction,
for cash, to the highest bidder, in one bulk, all the dry goods,
groceries, and all other merchandise assigned by said Lake &
Austin and subsequently attached and seized under writs issued
from this court as aforesaid,
.
and when so sold the proceeds of such sale said marshal shall immediately pay to the
clerk of this court, and be held subject to the orders of -this
court. The proceeds of such sale shall stand in all respects in
lieu of and represent the goods and effects assigned and attached, and be liable as said property and effects now, and to
said attaohments liens in their order, and not further or otherwise; and the rights of the parties claiming said goods and
effects to replevy the same or to reduce the same or any part
thereof upon claim made and the execution of bond,, as required
by law, shall be in nowise, prejudiced or affected by said sale,
nor shall the consent to said sale in anywise operate as a waiver
of or to the prejudice of any right, benefit, or advantage now
held, possessed, or claimed by said parties or any of them, but
all and singular the same shall be preserved, this being simply
a consent order, and intended to convert the projerty Into
money in order to prbtect the same from waste and great

WALTER v. BICKHAM.

323

Statement of the Case.

depreciation, and to let the money represent the property in
all respects in the litigatin. It is further ordered that said
marshal do keep accounts of his said sales, showing the amount
of proceeds of the several assets sold in the several bulks."
A sale was had pursuant to that order, and the sum of
$24,550- not more than sufficient to satisfy the claim of the
plaintiffs and their costs - was realized, and paid over to the
clerk of the court. The return of sale showed that so much of the
order as required the sale of the books of. account and choses
in action was rescinded, and the notes levied on were delivered
to A. 0. Hebron "in accordance with an agreement between
counsel for plaintiff and defendants."
On the 20th day of December, 1884, the plaintiffs in error,
creditors of Lake & Austin, procured a judgment against the
latter for $6300.26, and obtained thereon a writ of garnishment against the marshal and clerk of the court.
On the 2d of January, 1884, the same judgment creditors
moved the court to discharge the levy made in behalf of Bickham & Moore upon the following grounds:
"1st. Because said alleged levy was not made by the U. S.
marshal or any of his deputies, or by any one duly authorized
to execute said writ of attachment.
"2d. Because the writ of attachment in this cause was levied
and executed by Samuel Ladd, who was not and is not an officer
of this court from which said writ emanated and was returnable, said Ladd. not being either a regular deputy U. S. marshal or a special deputy.
"3d. Because Mr. H. M. Sullivan, on6 of the attorneys for
plaintiffs in this cause, appointed said Samuel Ladd to execute
the said writ of attachment.
"4th. Because J. L. IMorphis, the U. S. marshal for the
Northern District of Mississippi, appointed R. N. Hall, sheriff
of Grenada County, his deputy, to execute the said writ of
attachment in this cause by his written deputation upon the
back of and on the said writ of attachment, which said writ
was sued out in the U. S. court for the Northern District of
Mississippi, and said -rit was not executed by said Hall, who
was so appointed, but was executed by said Samuel Ladd upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the appointment of Mr. H. Mv.Sullivan as aforesaid, without
any further authority from said U. S. marshal, by striking out
the name of said Hall, upon his own motion, upon said Hal's
declining to act, and substituting the name of Samuel Ladd in
place and stead thereof.
"5th. Because said levy was not made by any lawful officer
-whatever, or by any one duly appointed to make said levy."
The motion was denied, and the present writ of error was
brought to reverse that judgment.
Xr2. -.

1. Walter for plaintiffs in error.

I. Congress never intended to authorize any one to serve
writs directed to the marshal, other than the marshal himself
or those of his appointees who may have duly qualified as
deputies by taking the required oath or affirmation; and service by any one else must be void. Schwabacher v. Reilly, 2
Dillon, 127; Winternute v. Smith, 1 Bond, 210; Spefford v.
Goodell, 3 McLean, 97.
II. But assuming that an appointee of the marshal, who has
not qualified, can serve process directed to the marshal, it has
always been held that there is no power in the marshal to delegate his power of appointment, and that he cannot ratify
such au appointment, nor a levy made in his name by one not
lawfully appointed. Perkinsv. lo_pkinm, 14 Ala. 536; .3font- gonwnj v. Scanland, 2 Yerger, 337; .Meyer v. Biih,
27 N.
J. Eq. (12 Green) 141, 143.
III. Assuming that the marshalfhad the right to delegate
his power of appointment, the power conferred on Sullivan
was exhausted after Hall was appointed and agreed to serve.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JusTioE H-LAN, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
On behalf of the plaintiff it is insisted: 1. That the law does
not authorize any one to serve writs directed to a marshal, ex-

WALTER v. BICKHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

cept that officer himself, or such of his appointees as may
have duly qualified as deputies, by taking the oath or affirnation prescribed by ยง 782 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States; and that service by any one else is void. 2. 'Assuming
that an appointee of the marshal, who was not thus qualified,
can serve process directed to the marshal, the latter has no
right to delegate to another his power of appointment; and
he cannot ratify such an appointment, nor validate a levy
made in his name by one not lawfully appointed. 3. Assuming that the marshal has the right.to delegate his power of appointment, the authority conferred by him on the attorney of
Bickham & Moore was exhausted after Hall's -appointment
and agreement to serve.
On the other hand, it may be claimed that, if the appointment of Ladd to execute the attachment was illegal, and if his
levy. was void, the subsequent action of a regular deputy of
the marshal in taking possession of the attached property,
and holding it under the writ delivered to him by Ladd, made
the levy from that time so far valid, that the property was
thereafter to be deemed in the lawful custody of such deputy,
under the writ of attachment.
It is unnecessary to determine any of these questions; for,
the record shows that on .the 19th of October, 1883 -before
the plaintiffs in error obtained their judgment against Lake &
Austin, and, therefore, before.they had acquired any special
interest in the property -in the court below, upon the application and with the consent of all the creditors who had theretofore sued out attachments, and with the consent, ag well
of the debtors themselves as of Hebron, the assignee in the
deed of assignment executed by :the debtors, the attached
effects were sold, by order of the court,. and the proceeds paid,
puirsuant to that order, to the clerk. Thus, every person, who
was in a position, in reference to the property, to object to the
manner in which the writ of attachment was executed,' consented that the property be placed under the control of the
court, the proceeds of the sale to he applied to the attachment liens in their order.
Under these circumstances, creditors who did not obtain

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

judgments until after such consent order was made, cannot be
heard to object to the manner in which the property was
originally seized and brought into court, and made subject to
its orders. The attaching creditors, the debtors, and the
assignee of the debtors, having all approved what was done,
subsequent judgment creditors- the consent order of sale not
being impeached on the ground of fraud -acquired no such
rights in the propertyas entitled them to question the disposition made of it or of the proceeds of sale.
The judgment isafirmed.

PHILADELPHIA AND SOUTHERN STEAMSHIP
COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO TRE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Arguid April 7, 187. -Deeided

May 27, 1857.

A state tax upon the gross receipts of a steamship company incorporated
under its laws, which are derived from the transportation of persons and
property by sea, between different states, and to and from foreign countries, is a regulation of interstate and foreign commerce, in conflict with
the exclusive powers of Congress under the Constitution.
State Tax on Railway GrossReceipts, 15 Wall. 284,. considered and questioned.

THE question in this case was, whether a state can constitutionally impose upon a steamship company, incorporated under
its laws, a tax upon the gross receipts of such company derived from the transportation of persons and property by sea,
between different states, and to and from foreign countries.
]By an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, passed March
20, 1877, it was, amongst other things, enacted as follows; to
wit:
"That every railroad company, canal company, steamboat
company, slack-water navigation company, transportation company, street passenger railway company, and every other company now or hereafter incorporated .by or under any law of
this commonwealth, or now or hereafter incorporated by any

