THORN WIRE HEDGE CO. v. FULLER.
Statement of the Case.

THORN WIRE HEDGE COMPANY v. FULLER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF 31INWESOTA.
Submitted May 10, 1887. -Deided May 27,1887.
An flinois corporation recovered judgment against P., a citizen of Minnesota, in a court of that state. An execution issued thereon was placed in
the sheriff's liznds with directions to levy on property of P. which had
been transferred to F., and was in F.'s possession, the corporation giving
the officer a bond with sureties. F. sued the officer in trespass, and he
answered, setting up that the goods were the property of the execution
debtor. The corporation and the sureties then intervened as defendants,
and answered, setting up the same ownership of the property, and further
that the sheriff had acted under their directions, and that they were the
parties primarily liable. The plaintiff.; in that suit replied, and the intervenors then petitioned for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States, setting forth as a reason therefor that the plaintiff
and the sheriff were citizens of Minnesota, the intervenors and petitioners
citizens of Illinois; that the real controversy was between the plaintiff and
the petitioners; and that the petitioners believed that through prejudice
and local influence they could not obtain justice in the state court. The
cause was removed on this petition, and a few days later was remanded
to the state court on the plaintiff's motion.
Held, that, on their own showing the intervenors were joint trespassers
with the sherrff, if any trespass had been committed, and by their own
act they had made themselves joint defendants with him, and thaton the
authority of Pire v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, and Sloane v. Anderson, 117
U. S. 275, the cause was not removable from the state court.

Tmis was a writ of error brought under. § 5 of the act of
March 3, 1875 (c. 137, 18 Stat. 470),for the review of an order
of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed
from the District Court of Freeborn County, Minnesota. The
facts were these: Cassius D. Fuller and Burt G. Patrick,
citizens of Minnesota, doing business as hardware merchants
in the city of Albert Lea, began the suit October 12, 1886,
against Jacob Larson, sheriff of the county, for trespass, in
taking possession of their stock of goods and destroying their
business. The sheriff answered, November 13, 1886, to the
effect that his taking was under the authority of an execution

OCTOBER TER.,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

issued upon a judgment in the same court in favor of The
Thorn Wire Hedge Company, an Illinois corporation, against
George A. Patrick, and that the goods were the property of
the execution debtor, which had been transferred by him to
Fuller & Patrick, the plaintiffs, in fraud of the rights of. his
creditors.
On the same day The Thorn Wire Hedge Company, J. W.
Calkins, Aaron K. Stiles, and Gary G. Calkins, intervened as
defendants in the action, and filed an answer, substantially
the same in all respects as that of, the sheriff, with the following in addition:
"That in making the levy of said execution and in selling
the said property under the same, the said sheriff (Larson)
acted under the express direction of said intervenor, The
Thorn Wire Hedge Company, and upon indemnity furnished
him by said Thorn Wire Hedge Company, with said intervenors, J. W. Calkins, Aaron K. Stiles, and Gary G. Calkins,
as sureties and bondsmen, according to the statute in such
case made and provided, and in that behalf said intervenors
acted,

.

.

.

without any malice or want of probable cause

or intent to wrong anybody, and solely with intent to *obtain
payment of a just debt due from said George A. Patrick, and
out of the property which he owned and had attempted to
cover up, but which really belonged to him .

...

That by

reason of said facts, said intervenors, The Thorn Wire Hedge
Company, J. W. .Calkins, Aaron K. Stiles, and Gary G.
Calkins, acting under the statute in such case made and provided are the parties primarily liable for the acts and doings
of said defendant Jacob Larson, and as such are interested in
the matters in litigation in this action and in the success of
the defendant therein and in resisting the claim of the plaintiffs therein. Wherefore said Thorn Wire Hedge Company,
J. W. Calkins, Aaron K. Stiles, and Gary G. Calkins intervene in this action and. pray that said plaintiffs take nothing
by this action."
To these answers the plaintiffs replied, and on the 22d of
November the intervenors presented to the District Court
their petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court

THORN WIRE HEDGE CO. v. FULLER
Statement of the Case.

of the United States, in which they stated that the plaintiffs
and the defendant Larson were citizens of ]innesota, and the
intervenors and petitioners citizens of Illinois, and "5. That such taking, detention, and ultimate sale
were all done by said Jacob Larson, in his official capacity as
such sheriff, and at the request of your petitioners and by
virtue of a writ of execution duly allowed and- issued out of
the District Court of the Tenth Judicial District of the state
of Minnesota, for the county of Freeborn, in an action therein
pending in that court between said petitisner, The Thorn Wire
Hedge Company, as plaintiff, and one George A. Patrick, as
defendant, and under indemnity furnished by said Thorn
Wire Hedge Company, with said petitioners, J. W. Calkins,
Aaron. K. Stiles, and Gary G. Calkins, as bondsmen and
sureties therein to such sheriff, pursuant to the statute in such
case made and provided, and to save him harmless from all
damages and costs for and on account of so doing; and, accordingly, said sheriff has duly notified said petitioners to
defend this said action, and accordingly said petitioners, pursuant to the statute in such case made and provided, have duly
intervened in said action as parties defendant thereto, and
have duly made and filed in said action their pleading as such
intervening parties defendant.
"6. That, in virtue of said facts, said defendant, Jacob
Larson, was at all such times and in all said matters, so far as
said plaintiffs are concerned, the mere agent of said petitioners provided for them by law in such cases,:and there can be
a final determination of the controversy in said action, so far
as concerns said petitioners, without the presence of such
agent, said defendant Jacob Larson, and, in fact, the real controversy in said action is wholly between said plaintiffs on the
one side and said petitioners on the other side, and the same
can be fully determined as between them.
"7c. That your petitioners have reason to believe, and do
believe, that, from prejudice as well as from local influence,
they will not be able to obtain justice in said action in said
state court.
."Wherefore said petitioners pray that said action be re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

moved into the United States Circuit Court to be held within
and for the District of :Minnesota, and herewith present. the
bond and surety as in such cases required. '
Upon this petition an order of removal was made and the
suit entered in the Circuit Court December 11, 1886; and, on
the 21st of the same month, it was remanded on motion of
Fuller and Patrick. To reverse that order this writ of error
was brought.
-Mr. C]arle8 D. -Ker for plaintiffs in error.
I. The liability of the intervenors in this action is measured
by the terms of the contract of indemnity. The law relating
to the responsibiity- of joint wrongdoers, or of those who
adopt and ratify the wrongful acts of others, committed in
their behalf, does not indicate the rule or measure of damages
to be adjudged against the appellants. So far as they are concerned, it is, except as to the form of the proceedings and of
the judgment, as though this were an action prosecuted by the
sheriff upon the indemnity bonds, after his right to recover
upon them had been establisbed.
Hence the amount -of the recovery against the principals
and sureties in the bond is limited to the penal sum named
therein, with interest .from the time when their liabilit- became fixed and ascertained. .asher v. Getman, 30 Minn. 321.
It is apparent, therefore, without argument, that there is a separate -controversy here between the intervenors, Thorn Wire
Hedge Company and its bondsmen on the one side, and the
sheriff, Larson, on the other, which either of said parties had
a right to remove to the Federal court.
The liability of the intervenors to ther sheriff upon their
bond of indemnity is to be determined. This is ex contractu,
and is limited by the amount of the bond.
II. There is another phase of this controversy between the
intervenors and the sheriff, Larson.
The complaint, in effect, alleges a malicious, wrongful and
wanton abuse of his process on the part of the sheriff. Now
it is clear that the statute we have cited does not contemplate

THORN WIRE HEDGE CO. v. FULLER.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the giving of a bond by the execution plaintiff to indemnify
tho sheriff against such acts as these,.nor did the bond in this
case have any such effect, nor 'are the intervening defendants
who seek their rights in this court responsible for such con-.
duct on the part of the sheriff.
Manifestly then, judgment might, in this case, be recovered
against the sheriff and yet the non-resident intervenors go
free, which brings the case within the reasoning of Beuttel v.
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. PaulRailway, 26 Fed. Rep. 510.
It is not clear, by the record sent up from the state court,
under what statute the intervention in this suit was made.
However made, the intervenois can, not only resist the claim
of the .plaintiff, but may have such relief as the facts may
warrant against their codefendants. It is well settled that,
for the purpose of removal, parties may be transferred and
arranged in their proper positions, with reference to their interest in the controversy, without regard to their formal position as plaintiffs or defendants on the record. Burke v. Flood,
6 Sawyer, 220.
III. Aside from this separate controversy between the
intervenors and their codefendant, Larson, we think the controversy between them and the plaintiffs is separable in its
nature. The effect of such an intervention as this, is to shift
fronL the sheriff to the intervenors the entire burden and responsibility of the suit, so far as the official action of the officer is concerned. The moment it is made the sheriff becomes,
to all intents and purposes, a merely formal or nominal party.
The real controversy thencefoth is with the intervenors, and
the presence of the sheriff, who is conditionally liable, is not
necessary.to its determination. - Greene v. Elinger,10 Fed. Rep.
689; Texis v. Lewis, 12 Fed. Rep. 1. See also In re the Iowa
& .Minnesota Construction Co., 10 Fed. Rep. 401; Beuttel v.
Chicago,.Ailwaukee, -c., Railway, 26 Fed. Rep. 50; .Afayor of
2ew York v. Steamboat Co., 94: Fed. Rep. 817; Tom of
Aroma v. Auditor, 9 Bissell, 289; Removal Cases, 100 U. S.
457; Wood v. .Davis, 18 How. 467; Sioux City Railway v.
Chicago, &c., Railway, 27 Fed. Rep. 770; -Foss v. Bank of
-Denver, 1 McOrary, 474; Allen v. Ryerson, 2 Dillon, 501.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
-Opinion of the Court.

It will be observed that. in all of the eroval Cases, 100
U. S. 457, suit was commenced by the plaintiff against both
the resident and non-reside'nt defendants. He had elected, so
far as it lay in his power, to recover against them jointly.
Those cases, and all which have followed in the same line,
have proceeded upon the reasoning, that although liability in
tort is several, as well as joint, yet the plaintiff having elected
to make it joint, it did not lie in the power of any of the
defendants to make it'several, so as to treate the separate controversy necessary as a groundwork for removal under the
act of 1875.
This reasoning is not applicable in the case at bar, because
the plaintiff did not elect to sue the defendants jointly. His
election, so faras he could exercise it, was precisely the contrary. Ie made his cause of action several, and cannot now
claim that it is joint by virtue of any election on his part.
Moreover, the non-resident defendant, by his intervention,
has -tendered to this plaintiff a separate and distinct controversy on the question of fraud, upon which separate controversy the plaintiff, by his reply, has joined issue, and he cannot
now prevent the intervening defendants from removing that
controversy to this court. He is without the logic, and therefore without the application of. the decisions in the Tvedt and
Carson, cases. This is plainly indicated in Boyd v. Gill, 19
Fed. Rep. 145.
It is settled that the law of 1866 is practically repealed by
the law of 1875. Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S. 407; Zing v.
Cornell, 106 U. S. -395.
.M. Thomas Wilson for defendants in error.
MP. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
We have been referred by the parties to the following section.s of c. 66 of the General Statutes (1878) of Minnesota
as authority for the intervention of the execution creditor
and his sureties in the action:

THORN WIRE HEDGE CO. v. FULLER;
Opinion of the Court.

"SEOTTON 131. Intervention.-Any person who has an,
interest in the matter at litigation, in the success of either of
the parties to the action, or against either or both, may
become a party to any action or proceeding between other
persons, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming what is
sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in
resisting the claim of. the plaintiff-, or by demanding anything
adversely to both the plaintiff and defendant, or either of
them, either before or after issue has been joined in the cause,
and before the trial commences. The court shall determine
upon the issues made by the intervention at the same time
that the issue in the main action is decided, and the intervenor
has no right to -delay; and if the claim of the intervenor is
not sustained, he shall pay all the costs of -the intervention.
The intervention shall be by complaint, which must set forth
the facts on which the intervention rests; and all the pleadings therein shall be governed by the same principles and
rules as obtain in other pleadings. But if such complaint is
filed during term, the court shall direct a time in which an
answer shall be filed thereto."
" SECTIoN 154. Claim of profperty Zy third person - affldavit-indemnity by iintir.- -If any property levied upon
or taken by a sheriff, by virtue of a writ of execution,
attachment, or other process, is claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person, his agent or
attorney, makes affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the
possession thereof, stating the value thereof, and the ground
of such title or right, the sheriff may release such levy or taking, unless the plaintiff, on demand, indemnify the sheriff
against such claim, by bond executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavit that they are each worth
double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit
of the claimant of such property, and are freeholders and
residents of the county; and no claim to such property by
any other .person than the defendant or his agent shall be
valid against the sheriff, unless so made; and, notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain, such property
under levy a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

. 519

OCTOBER TERM, 1886
Opinion of the Court.

"SECTION 155. Plaintif to be imTleaded with sherif in
action against him. -If, in such case, the person claiming the
ownership of such property commences an action against the
sheriff for the taking thereof, the obligors in the bond provided for in the preceding section, and the plaintiff in such
execution, attachment, or other process, shall, on motion of
such sheriff, be impleaded with him in such action. When,
in such case, a judgment is rendered against the sheriff and
his codefdndants, an execution shall be immediately issued
thereon, and the property of such codefendants shall be first
exhausted before that of the sheriff is sold to satisfy such
execution."
The record does not state in direct terms which of the
forms of proceeding provided for in these sections Was
adopted. The intervenors claim they went into the suit under
§§ 154 and 155, and the plaintiffs that it was under § 131. In
the view we take of the case this question is quite immaterial.
The intervenors, in their answer, state in positive terms that
Larson in all that he did acted under the express direction of
the Thorn Wire Hedge Company and upon the indemnity
furnished him for that purpose, and that they are the parties
primarily liable for his acts and doings. In their petition for
removal .they are even more explicit; and say that he "was at
all such times, and in all such matters, so f&r as said plaintiffs
are concerned, the mere agent for the petitioners provided for
them by law." In other words, they have by their pleadings
placed themselves on record as joint actors with the sheriff in
all that he has done, and as promoters of his trespass, if it be
one. The suit, therefore, stood at the time of the removal precisely s it would if it had been begun originally against all the
defendants upon an allegation of a joint trespass.. By coming
into the suit the intervenors did not deprive the plaintiffs of
their right of action against the sheriff. He is still, so far as
they are concerned, a necessary party to the suit. The intervenors may unite with him to resist the claim of the plaintiffs,
but by their doing so the nature of the action is .in no way
changed. The cause of action is still the original alleged
trespass. At first the suit was agaihst him who actually com-

RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

mitted the trespass alone; now it is against him and his aiders
and abettors, who concede, upon the face of the record, that
they are liable if he is. As the case stood, therefore, when it
was removed, it was by citizens of Minnesota against another
citizen of Minnesota and citizens of Illinois, for an alleged
trespass committed by all the defendants acting together and
in concert. If one is liable, all are liable. The judgment, if
in favor of the plaintiffs, will be a joint judgment against all
the defendants.
That such a suit is not removable was decided in Pirie v.
Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, and Sloane v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 275. The
fact that if the intervention was had under § 154 and 155, the
property of the intervenors must first be exhausted on execution before that of the sheriff is sold, does not alter the case.
The liability of all the defendants upon the cause of action is
still joint, so far as the plaintiffs are concerned. By getting
the intervenors in, the sheriff will be able to establish his
right of indemnity from them, but that does not in any way
change the rights of the plaintiffs. The intervenors do not
seek to relieve themselves from liability to the sheriff if he is
bound, but to show that neither he nor they are liable to the
plaintiffs.
It follows that the order to remand was properly .made, and
it is, consequently,
RUNLE v. UNITED STATES.
'UNITED STATES v. RUNKLE.
APFALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
Argued April 22,1887.-Decided May 27,1887.

Article 65 of the Articles of War in the act of April 10, 1806, 2 Stat. 359, 367,
"for the government of the armies of the United States," enacted that
"neither shall any sentence.of a general court-martial, in time of peace,
extending to the loss of life, or the dismission of a commissioned officer,
or which shall, either in time of peace or war, respect a general officer,
be carried into execution until after the whole proceedings shall have

