OCTOBER TERM, 1866.
Syllabus.

tiff claims was made after. the passage of that act. The title
was transferred by that act to the state of Iowa for the original purposes of the grant of 1846.
The object of this bill is to have a declarat" -nof the court
that the title of the plaintiff under those sett- %entsand preemptions is superior to the title conferred by Congrest on the
state of Iowa and her grantees under the act of July 12, 1862.
If the lands were at the time of these settlements and pre.emption declarations effectually withdrawn from- settlement,
sale, or preemption, by the orders of the Department, which
we have considered, there is an end of the plaintiff's title, for
by that withdrawal or reservation the lands were reserved for
another purpose, to which they were ultimately appropriated
by the act of 1862, and no title could be initiated or established,
because the Land Department had no right to grant it. This
proposition, which we have fully discussed, will be found supported by the following decisions, which are decisive of the
whole controversy. Dubuque & Pacifo Railroadv. Litchjeld,
23 How. 66; Wolcott v. Des 1oilones Co., 5 Wall. 681; Homestead Co. v. "Valley Railroad,17 Wall. 153; Williams v. Baker
and Cedar Rapids Railroadv. Des -foines Ncavigation Co., 17
Wall. 144; TF-olsey v. Chapman, 101 U.- S. 755; Dubuque &
Sioux City Railroad v. Des foines Valley Railroad, 109
U. S. 329, 334.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the state of Iowa,
founded on the same.view of the subject as above set forth, is
therefore

Afflmed.
SANGER v. NIGHTINGALE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Argued April 15, 1887. - Decided May 23, 1887.

Following the decisions of the Supreme Court of Georgia, this court holds
that the act of the legislature of Georgia, of March 16, 1869, which provided that actions upon contracts or debts " which accrued prior to the

SANGER v. NIGHTINGALE.
Statement of the Case.
1st of June, 1865, and are now barred, shall be brought by 1st January;
1870, or both the right and right -f action to enforce it shall be forever
barred" is an ordinary statute- of limitations; that it was a personal
privilege of the debtor to plead it; and that to avail himself of it he
must plead it.
The proposition that a purchaser with the legal title, whose right accrued
subsequent to a mortgage debt barred by the statute of limitations, can
avail himself of the statute, when sued to foreclose the equity of redemption, bas been sustained in Georgia only in cases where the party
setting it up has become the owner of the title, or of the entire equity of
redemption, or has been found in possession of the mortgaged property.
The court finds no fraud or irregularity in the transactions assailed in the
bill to warrant a reversal of the decree.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Georgia.
The decree from which this appeal. was taken dismissed a
bill brought by William H. IM. Sanger, the appellant, to foreclose a mortgage. The bill was brought against William
Nightingale, as executor of Phineas M. Nightingale, his
father, Mrs. Ellen D. Nightingale, the widow, and John K.
Nightingale, and others, children of Phineas, deceased, the
maker of the original mortgage.
Sanger, the plaintiff below, was a citizen of New York, and
the other parties were mainly citizens of the state of Georgia.
This mortgage was made in the city of New York, on
December 6, 1869, by Phineas . Nightingale, who was a resident of Georgia.. It conveyed to Sanger, the appellant, certain property in the state of Georgia, known as Camber's
Island, in the Altamaha River. Three notes of $10,000 each
accompanied the mortgage, payable respectively in one, two
and three years, with semiannual interest at the rate of seven
per cent per annum. It was to secure the payment of these
notes[ that the mortgage was made, and it was duly recorded
January 28, 187 0, after having been properly acknowledged.
No money was ever paid upon this mortgage, either by way
of principal or interest. Nightingale, the mortgagor, died in
April, 1873, and William Nightingale became the executor of
his will.
There were several mortgages on this property prior to the
one to the plaintiff, which were properly recorded so as to conVOL. Cxxi-12

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Statement of the Case.

stitute notice to Sanger, as well as to all other subsequent purchasers or incumbrancers. When Sanger came to file his bill
to foreclose his mortgage, which he did April 8, 1883, it became
necessary for him to bring these mortgages to the attention of
the couirt. The principal, and only one of them, as the case
presents itself to us, which is necessary to -be considered, -was
one made by Nighting le, on Yauary 30, 1855, to Charles
Spalding, which included' Camber'g Island and a. very large
amount of landed estat6 beside, as well assofie, 120 slaves residing upon the estate so mortgag L This mortgage had been
assigned, for the considerati6n .of $100,000, by. Spalding to.
Edmund Molyneux, who afterwards died,'and .is -Idow and
heirs had rimoved t6 England. The executor of the estate of
Molyneux had taken judgment against Nightingal before his
death-for the sum due on the bonds secured by the mortgag'e
to Spalding, and he had also foreclosed the mortgage- of
Nightingale to Spalding, the property had been sold, and a
deed made by the sheriff under that sale to William Nightingale, son of Phineas.
All this occurred in the lifetime of the latter.
The bill of complaint of Sanger assailed this proceeding by
which the mortgage to Spalding was foreclosed, and the title
of the property came into the hands of William, as the result
of a fraudulent combination on the part of Phineas iM. Nightingae, his debtor, and William Nightingale, as represe4nting
the children of Phineas M. Nightingale, Mrs. Molyneux, and
the executor of Molyneux, t6 defraud him of his just claims
under the mortgage of December, 1869. In reciting the
means by which this fraud was carried out "he said that
Phineas M. Nightingale, the mortgagor in both mortgages,
conveyed on July 21, 1870, to Mrs. Molyneux, the Midow and
real party in interest as heir or devisee of Molyneux, then
dead, a tract of land known as "Dunginess," which was received by Mrs. Molyneux and intended by Nightingale to be a
complete satisfaction of the Spalding mortgage. He further
a.sserted that the Spalding bonds and mortgage-were then
turned over to P.%M. Nightingale, either by a written assignment, or accompanied with an indorseinent showing that they

SANGER v. NIGHTINGALE.
Statement of the Case.

were satisfied; that P. A. Nihtingale afterwards procured
this mortgage to be foreclosed and Camber's Island sold under
it and brought in by his son William without any consideration-being paid for it, and solely for the purpose of cutting off
the right of Sanger under his mortgage.
The answer of the Nightingales denied this combination
and fraud, and by way of explanation said that Dunginess was
received by Mrs. iMolyneux at the sum of.$25,000, credited on
the Spalding mortgage; that a question at that time existed
as to how far the loss of the slaves who had been emancipated,
which were included in'the mortgage o Nightingale to,
Spalding, and the consideration of which was the land"and
negroes mortgaged, would be treat&I as a failure of consideration; that this question was also settled at the time that
Dungines was conveyed to Mrs. folyneux, and that an adjustment of that matter %as made by which, after the receipt
of the deed of conveyance of Dunginess, it was agreed that
the sum of $51,250 remained due upon that mortgage. , They
denied all combination to defeat the plaintiff in his mortgage;
they asserted that the foreclosure of the mortgage was a bona
jde attempt -tqenforce the collection of the remaining sum of
$51,250, and that William Nightingale gave 'his note for the
sum of $30,000, for which the property -wassold.
The plaintiff afterwards filed an amended bill, in which he
adopted'the version of the settlement between Mrs. Molyneux
and Phinea M. Nightingale, by which Dungiiess was received
as part payment only, .and the mortgage was fdreclosed
for the remaining sum, after deduction for the loss of the
slaves, the balance of the bonds remaining unpaid. But in regard to the foreclosure proceedings on that mortgage he said,
that at the time they were instituted the debt was barred by
the limitation law of March 16,1869, of the General Assembly
of Georgia, and that at the time the bonds and mortgage on
which that proceeding was instituted were taken by the children of said Phineas M. Nightingale, by the assignment
ind transfer of the executor of the Molyneux estate, the said
bonds 9nd mortgage were all past due and barred by said act

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Appellant.

of 1869.1 He further averred that the failure of said Phineas
to plead the statute of limitations in bar of the foreclosure did
not and could not affect, the right of the complainant to now
avail himself of said statute of limitation. IHe then requested
the court to decree the said foreclosure void, by virtue of said
limitation law, against the claim and right of complainant.
4 Woods, 483.
3r. Henry B. Tompkins for appellant submitted on his
brief, in which he argued at length in regard to 'the alleged
frauds, and as follows in regard to the statute of limitations.
1. The Spalding mortgage was given to secure a debt arising before 1st June, 1865, to wit: in 1855.
Section 3 of the act of 16th Mffarch, 1869, is as follows (pamphlet acts, Georgia Legislature, page 133): "That all actions
on bonds or other instrments under seal, and all suits for the
enforcement of rights accruing to individuals, or corporations,
under statutes or acts of incorporation, or in any way by operation of law, which accrued prior to 1st June, 1865, not now
barred, shall be brought by 1st January, 1870, or the right of
the party, plaintiff or claimant, and al0 right of action for its
enforcement shall be forever barred."
It is distinctly ruled in Georgia that a purcaser of mortgaged premises, buying before the foreclosure suit is begun,
can set up the statute of limitations. In Wilhiams v. Terrell,
54: Ga. 462, the court holds: "One who purchases mortgaged
property, prior to the commencement of statutory proceeding
to foreclose, and who.is not a party to such proceedings, is not
bound by the judgment of foreclosure, and may, when the
mortgage fi.,fa. is levied, go behind the juagment and set up
that the mortgage -was barred by the statute of limitations at
the date of. the filing the petition to foreclose." See also lilienthal v. Champion, 58 Geo. '158, where it is held that a purThe sections of this act which were brought before the court in the briefs
of counsel were: § 3, in the brief of the counsel for the appellant, and § 6, in
the brief of the counsel for the appellees. The former will be found in
the report of the counsel's argument;,he latter in the opinion of the court.

SANGER -v. NIGHTINGALE.
Argument for Appellant.

chaser before foreclosure proceedings may go behind the judgment and show usury.
'Also, Stokes v. .3fawell, 58 Geo. 78, where the right of a
purchaser to go behind the foreclosure and set up the statute
of March, 1869, was denied on the around that he purchased
after suit was begun.
Under the laws of Georgia providing for statutory foreclosure it was not permitted for any one to intervene in the suit.
Code of Georgia, § 3965. But those not parties, and who
could not become parties, are not precluded by the foreclosure.
Frost v. Bordens, 59 Geo. 819.
2. So whatever knowledge Sanger may have had of the
foreclosure of the Spalding mortgage in McIntosh Superior
Court, he could not have interposed.
The question arises, if it be lawful for Sanger to take advantage of this statute of March, 1869, being a junior mortgagee,
when he could without doubt have taken advantage of it, after
foreclosure of the Spalding mortgage, if he had been a purchaser of Camber's Island from P. M. Nightingle?
As a general proposition, the rights and liens of mortgagees
are not affected if they .are not made parties-to foreclosure
proceedings in the suit of another mortgagee. 2 Billiard on
Mortgages, 156, § 51 et seq. There is no question in the case
of attacking a judgment collaterally. The questions are: 1,
Fraud, which renders void all judgments, &c., Code of Georgia,
§ 1945 to 1947, 3118, 3595, 3596; and, 2, superiority of lien
by reason of the absolute bar of the Spalding mortgage.
3. And where a prior mortgagee is barred by the statute of
limitations, and is yet proceeding to foreclose without subsequent mortgagees being made parties, such subsequent mortgagees may intervene,and recover against the prior mortgagee.
2 Hilliard on Mortgages, 160, note,(a). Zord v. .Afo.qis, 18 Cal.
482. (Decided by Mr. Justice Field.) Gates v. lilly, 81 Nor.
Car. 643.' It has been shown that under statutory foreclosure
in Georgia the subsequent mortgagee had no right to intervene. Ih California, as in Georgia, a mortgage is only a security for a debt. Yet a mortgage in Georgia is a deed of a claim,
a right, a demand. Calloway v. Peoples Bank-, 54 Geo. 441,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

447, 448; Allen v. -Lathrp,46 Ga. 133, 137; Iane v. Partee,
41 Geo. 202, 207. In this last case the court says: "A bona fide
mortgagee, to the extent of his interest in the land mortgaged,
stands upon the same footing as any other bona-fide purchaser,"
&c. This is just the doctrine laid down in Lord v. -forris.
So, in Georgia as in California, the statute applies to "actions
at law as well-as suits in equity." 18 Cal. 486; Code of Georgia, 2924, Acts of 1869, p. 133.
4. The decree of the court below, if valid, establishes the
doctrine that the mortgagor; P. M. Nightingale, could by his
failure to plead the bar of the statute of 1869, that is, "by his
aots; confessions or neglect," be able to defeat the mortgage
Ran of .appellant in favor of his own family, who, by the law,
was precluded from setting up that statute. This principle is
ably combated by Judge McCay himself, in his high and
palmy days, when he was one of the most distinguished
-judges tie .S~upreme C6urt of Georgia ever had, in Willams
v. Terrell, 54 Geo. 463.
5. But the .question recurs, does not the limitation law of
March, 1869, becr the right of action and extinguish the
remedy upon all causes of action accruing prior to 1st June,1865?
In this matter the ruling of the Supreme Court of Georgia
is conclusive. Atills v. Scott, 99 U. S.25, 28; Koshkonong v.
Burton, 104 -U. S. 668.
Aside, then, from any other considerations, the case of
Pitman v. Elder, decided by Supreme Court of Georgia, at
March Term, 1886, is conclusive on this point. This case not
yet being published, a- certified copy of the decision is herewith submitted. See also Pamphlet decisions of Georgia
Supreme Court, March Term, 1886, p. 11.
Mr..Alexander R. Lawton for appellees. -Yr.Rufus E. Lestar was with him on the brief.
MR. JUsTIO

MmLER, after stating the case as reporte.

above, delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented for consideration on the pleadings in the case. The first of these may be said to be this

SANGER v. NIGHTINGALE.
Opinion of the Court.

plea of' the statute of limitations;. the second, the question of
actual fraud in the foreclosure of the Spalding iiortgage, and
the transfer of title thereby to the children of Phineas :M.
Nightingale.
As regards the statute of limitations, it is observable that
the foreclosure suit was brought in 'the name of Spalding,
the original mortgagee, for the use of Johnston, administrator
of the estate of Molyneux, for reasons explained by the attorneys who brought it. The suit was against Phineas M.
Nightingale himself, who lived until the whole proIceeding
was ended and the property sold, and who died a few months
afterwards. The proper, if notthe only, time and place that
this statute of limitations could have be6n pleaded was in.
that suit. -Nightingale himself, who was the debtor and was
in possession and had no equitable defence against the debt
for which a judgment at law had been already obtained against
him in one of the courts of Georgia, did not plead the statute
of limitations. It would hardly be insisted by anybody that
he was under any personal, legal or moral obligation to plead
that statute. He had obtained from Mrs. Molyneux a very
favorable settlement-of a debt of over one hundred thousand
dollars. Dunginess, which was accepted at the price of
$25,000, is stated in the oral testimony to have been sold not
long afterwards for $15,000. The value of the slaves was
adjusted on- some fair basis, and corresponding ledhction was
made on that account, so that the sum of $51,250, which was
yet due on the mortgage, was in every sense an honorable and
just debt which Nightingale owed to the estate of Molyneux,
and a plea of the statute bf limitations to that debt, if it could
have been sustained after the payments made upon it, within
the period of limitation, would 'have been an unjust exercise
ofhis right to make such a plea which could only result in
favor of the plaintiff Sanger.
The right to plead the statute of limitations has been
always held to be a personal privilege, of which the debtor
could avail himself or not, as he might choose. See Pitma?'e
Adminitratrix v. Elder et aZ. in the Supreme Court of
Georgia, March Term, 1886.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

It is true there are some authorities which go to show that
a purchaser with the legal title, whose right accrued subsequent to the debt which may be barred by the statute, can
also avail himself of the statute when he is sued to foreclose
this equity of redemption. While this proposition is not
undisputed, the cases in which this privilege has been sustained by the courts of Georgia are those in which the party
setting it up has become the owner of the title or the entire
equity of redemption, or has been found in possession of the
mortgaged property.
And in the case of Ewell v. Daggs, 108 U. S. 143, this court
said that, though the subsequent purchaser might set up the
plea of the statute, the plea must show that the action is
barred as between the partie8 to the debt, because as the owner
of the equity of redemption it is that debt he has to pay.
The statute of limitations applicable to this case is § 6 of the
act of March 16, 1869, Pamph. Laws Geo. 1869, p. 133, which
reads as follows:
"That all otier actions upon contracts, express or implied,
or upon any debt or liability whatsoever to the public, or a
corporation, or a private individual or individuals, which accrued prior to 1st June, 1865, and are not now barred, shall
be brought by 1st January, 1870, or both the right and right
of action to enforce it shall be forever barred."
This being a law of the state of Georgia, we must follow
its construction by the courts of that state, so far as it has
been construed. It is said in the argument in this case, but
not much insisted upon by the plaintiffs, that this is a peremptory discharge of the debt, and is not a mere statute of limitations, which, to be available, must be pleaded, as is the case
with other limitation acts. The proposition is, that the statute in effect destroys the right of action, but this doctrine has
been overruled repeatedly by the Supreme Court of Georgia,
in which it has been held to be an ordinary statute of limitations. See George v. Gardner, 49 Geo. 441, 449; Hfarris v.
CGray, 49 Geo. 585. In Parkerv. Irvin, 47 Geo. 405, it was decided that the pleading of the statute was only a personal
privilege of the debtor, and that to avail himself of the stat-

SANGER v. NIGHTINGALE.
Opinion of the Court.

ute he must plead it. See also Baker and w Ve v. B=A, 25
Geo. 594.
The mortgagee of real estate in Georgia does not take the
title to the property. The mortgage is only a security for the
debt for which it is made. The title remains in the mortgagor. The cases in that state, as already intimated, go no
further than to hold that a purchaser of the legal title, or
possibly a mortgagee in possession, may, when sued, plead the'
statute of limitations as a defence to a prior debt, or mortgage,
or incumbrance, made by the holder of the legal title.
In the case before us Sanger never, had the possession, never
had the legal title, and, as he was no party to the foreclosure
proceedings, which he now contests, he simply stands upon
such rights as his mortgage lien gives him against Nightingale. It is difficult to see from what standpoint he, in this
suit, in which he is complainant, seeking to foreclose his own
mortgage, can set up the statute of limitations, not as a defence, for he is not sued and nobody is troubling him about
his claim, but as a positive weapon to set aside and annul in
this collateral proceeding the decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, with proper parties before it, which foreclosed a
mortgage prior in time and equal in equity to his, under which
the property wag sold and passed into other hauds. Certainly
the court which rendered that decree had jurisdiction of the
property and of Nightingale, the defendant, Who was in possession, and who had the legal title. It is equally as certain
that whether Nightingale ought to have pleaded the statute
or not, he dia not do so, and it is now too late to set it up as
a defence to that suit. If Nightingale himself had made that
plea, it is difficult to perceive how he could have avoided the
effect of 'part payment by the transfer -of Dunginess and an
acknowledgment of the debt by the settlement under which
it was adjusted at $51,250, as a sufficient answer to the plea of
the -statute of limitations. We suppose, though no authorities are cited on the subject, that the law of Georgia, like that
of other states, admits of such evidence as payment, acknowledgment of the debt, and agreement to pay, as being a suffi-cient reply to the statute of limiitations. How Nightingale

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

could have pleaded the statute successfully under sueh circumstances we do not see. In short, we see no way, in accordance
with any known principles of dealing with the statute of limitations, that the plaintiff can,. in this collateral proceeding,
make use of the statute as a positive weapon of attack to set
aside a decree rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction,
with proper parties before it, under which the title has passed
by.a judicial sale to third persons.
In regard to the other proposition, that the whole proceeding was the result of a fraudulent combination to cut off and
defeat the claim of the plaintiff, we have a little more difficulty.
There are many circumstances of suspicion in the transaction. There is no very satisfactory account of anything being
paid by the Nightingales for the purchase of Camber's Island
under that decree of foreclosure. There is no very clear
account of how the bonds and mortgage, under which that
decree was made, came into the possession of William Nightingale and his brothers and sisters. When the purchase was
made, William Nightingale gave his note for $30,000, payable
to the order of the attorneys who foreclosed the mortgage.
It is nowhere shown that this note was ever paid. it is not
claimed that it was ever paid in fact; nor is it shown what
became of it. It is stated by the attorneys that the mortgage
was foreclosed in the name of Spalding, for the use of George
H. Johnston, administrator of Edward ]olyneux, and that the
note for the purchas6 money was taken to the solicitors as a
means of distributing it to those who might be entitled to it.
The attorneys seem to have been satisfied that the transfer of
the original mortgage and bonds to the Nightingales, the children of Phineas M. Nightingale, extinguished this note, and if
there were.any clear and satisfactory account of how the junior Nightingales became possessed of the bonds and mortgage
this mighf explain .the whole matter.
The attempt to Uo this is rather a lame affair. It is said
that the title of Phineas M. Nightingale to Dunginess was
brought into doubt by an examination of some papers under
which he held it, which raised a question whether he had any-

SANGER v. NIGHTINGALE.
Opinion of the Court.

thing more than a life estate in that property, the title of which
after his -death descended to his children, and, therefore, Mrs.
Molyneux would have no title to Dunginess when he died. A
paper is produced which professes to be a quitclaim- conveyance by the children of Nightingale to Mrs. Molyneux. This
conveyance is set up as the consideration on which Mrs. M olyneux, or the administrator of her husband's estate, transferred
the remaining part of the debt due on the original mortgage
to the children of Phineas M. Nightingale.
But it must le confessed that the whole of this proposition'
is involved in obscurity. Where this paper came from, whether
it was ever delivered to anybody, or how it came. to be executed, are questions- which are whplly unexplained by any part
of the paper or by anybody who seems to know anything about'
it. If the other defences to the charges of fraud and conspiracy in the foreclosure of the Spalding mortgage and the purchase of the estate were not better sustained than this, we
should be very much inclined to reverse the decree on that
branch of the subject. Put it is very clear that the settlement
and adjustment by which the elder Nightingale conveyed Dunginess at a consideration of $25,000 to Mrs. Molyneux, and by
which an adjustment was at the same time made of the claim.
for the failure of consideration by reason of the emancipation
of the slaves, and the sum of $51,250 found to be due and unpaid on the mortgage, was a fair and honest transaction; nor
is anything to be found which impeaches .the proceedings for
the foreclosure of the mortgage for the remainder of the debt.
The proceedings in this case were fair and open and according
to the laws of the state of Georgia. Nothing hindered the
attorneys who conducted these proceedings from accepting
William's note for $30,000 as a proper consideration for the
purchase money and for the sheriff's deed, which was made to
him. It is nowhere asserted that the property was worth more
than this $30,000. Up to this point there is no reason to com-.
plain -of any improper exercise' of power on the part of the
owners of the mortgage, or of the conduct and proceedings for
its foreclosure in the courts of Georgia.
Now, whatever arrangement may have afterwards been

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

made between Mrs. Molyneux, or the administrator of the
Molyneux estate, and the Nightingales, by which this note
was either satisfied by the quitclaim conveyances referred
to of Dunginess, or was absolutely remitted as a gratuity tu
the children of the senior Nightingale, is a matter of which
Sanger had no right to complain. The debt was a just debt.
The decree was an honest decree, and the proceeds of it
belonged to the estate of Molyneux, either to the widow, the
administrator, or devisees, if there was a will.
It is stated here, and it seems the most probable solution of
thematter, that in addition to this quitclaim of the heirs of
Nightingale of Dunginess, that Mrs. Molyneux, who was the
principal if not the sole devisee under her husband's will, had
become attached to the family of the Nightingales while she resided in this country, and was willing that th3 debt due to her
should be used as a Ineans of securing to the children the family homestead. She had a right to do this. It was her property. She had the right to select whether she would give it
to Sanger or to these children. In no event, that we can see,
was Sanger injured by the transaction. If, however, he had
any right to complain, if there was any .wrong done him, it
was not in the proceedings by which the decree was obtained,
and that decree must be held to remain valid under all circumstances.
If Sanger had brought his bill to merely set aside the sale
under that decree, and proposed to redeem or pay the amount
of the decree, there might be some reason to consider his claifn,
because 'p to the rendition of the decree everything was fair
and right. If the sale was set aside the decree would remain,
and he could not under such a bill do anything but pay the
money due on that decree, and then proceed to sell for his own
debt. This he does not seem to have contemplated; perhaps
for the reason that the property is not worth the debt, or half
the debt, for which that decree was rendered.
On the whole case we are of opinion that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be ffi med.

