RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

mitted the trespass alone; now it is against him and his aiders
and abettors, who concede, upon the face of the record, that
they are liable if he is. As the case stood, therefore, when it
was removed, it was by citizens of Minnesota against another
citizen of Minnesota and citizens of Illinois, for an alleged
trespass committed by all the defendants acting together and
in concert. If one is liable, all are liable. The judgment, if
in favor of the plaintiffs, will be a joint judgment against all
the defendants.
That such a suit is not removable was decided in Pirie v.
Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, and Sloane v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 275. The
fact that if the intervention was had under § 154 and 155, the
property of the intervenors must first be exhausted on execution before that of the sheriff is sold, does not alter the case.
The liability of all the defendants upon the cause of action is
still joint, so far as the plaintiffs are concerned. By getting
the intervenors in, the sheriff will be able to establish his
right of indemnity from them, but that does not in any way
change the rights of the plaintiffs. The intervenors do not
seek to relieve themselves from liability to the sheriff if he is
bound, but to show that neither he nor they are liable to the
plaintiffs.
It follows that the order to remand was properly .made, and
it is, consequently,
RUNLE v. UNITED STATES.
'UNITED STATES v. RUNKLE.
APFALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
Argued April 22,1887.-Decided May 27,1887.

Article 65 of the Articles of War in the act of April 10, 1806, 2 Stat. 359, 367,
"for the government of the armies of the United States," enacted that
"neither shall any sentence.of a general court-martial, in time of peace,
extending to the loss of life, or the dismission of a commissioned officer,
or which shall, either in time of peace or war, respect a general officer,
be carried into execution until after the whole proceedings shall have

OCTOBER TERM, 188G.
Statement of the Case.
been transmitted to the Secretary of War to be laid before the President
of the United States, for his confirmation or disapproval; and orders in
the case." Held:
(1) That the action required of the President by this article is judicial in
its'character, and in this respect differs from the administrative
action considered in Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; United States
v. Eliason, 16 Pet. 291; Confiscation Cases, 20 Wall. 92; United
States v. Farden,99 U. S. 10; Wolsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S.755.
(2) That (without deciding what the precise form of an order of the
President approving the proceedings and sentence of a court martial should be, or that his own signature should be affixed thereto)
his approval must be authenticated in a way to show, otherwise
than argumentatively, that it is the result of his own judgment
and not a mere departmental order which may or may not have
attracted his attention, and that the fact that the order was his
own must not be left to inference only.
(3) That until the President acted in the manner required by the article,
a sentence by a court-martial of dismissal of a comrmissioned officer
from service in time of peace was inoperative.
There being no sufficient evidence that the action of the coutt-martial which
* dismissed Major Runkle from the service was approved by the President,
it follows that he was never legally cashiered or dismissed from the
army.

THIS record showed that on the 14th of September, 1882,
Benjamin P. Runkle filed in the oflce of the Second Auditor
of the Treasury Department a blaim, based on the decision of
this court.in United States v. TVyler, 105 U. S.244, for longev-

ity pay as an Mficer in the army of the United States, "retired
from active service," and that on the 27th of June, 1883, the.

Secretary of the Treasury referred it to the Court of Claims,
under § 2 of the act of Mvfarch 3, 1883, c. 116, 22 Stat. 485, for

an opinion upon the following questions:
"1st. Was the court-martial that tried Benjamin P. Runkle

duly and regularly organized, and had it jurisdiction of the
person of said Runkle, and of the charges upon which he was
triedI

"2d. Were the proceedings and findings of said court-martial regular and the sentence duly approved in part by the
President of the United States, as required by law?
"3d. Was Benjamin P. Runkle legally cashiered and dismissed from the army of the United States, in pursuanLce of

said court-martial and suibsequent proceedings?

RU.NKLE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"4th. Was the President of the United States authorized
and empowered by executive order to restore said Runkle to
the army, as it is claimed he was restored by the order of
August 4, 1877?
"5th. Is Benjamin P. Runkle now a retired army officer,
with the rank of major, and, as such officer, entitled to longevity pay under what is known as the Tyler decision ?"
Runkle thereupon filed his petition in the Court of Claims,
in accordance with the rules of practice in that court applicable to such cases, and the United States put in a counter claim
for "$23,585.62, moneys paid to the said claimant by the
Paymaster-General and his subordinates, without authority
of law, being the pay and allowances of a major in the army
upon the retired list, from the 4th day of August, 1877, to
January 1, 1884, during which period the said claimant was
not a major in the army, nor in any way authorized to draw
pay and allowances as aforesaid."
The facts as found by the Court of Claims were as follows:
I. April 22, 1861, the claimant was mustered in as a captain
of 13th Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and served as such till November 8, 1861, when he was ifiustered in as major. August
18, 1862, he was honorably mustered out.
August 19, 1862, he was mustered in as colonel of 45th
Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and honorably mustered out July
21, 1864.
August 29, 1864, he accepted appointment as lieutenantcolonel of Veteran Reserve Corps, and was honorably mus-.
tered out October 5, 1866.
October 6, 1866, he accepted appointment as major of 45th
U. S. Infantry, became unassigned, March 15, 1869, and was
placed on the retired list as major U. S. Army, December 15,
1870.

II. At the time he was so placed on the retired list he was
on duty as a disbursing officer of the Bureau of. Refugees,
Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands for the state of Kentucky,
and had been on that duty from April 11, 1867; and conVOL. cxxI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

tinued on it without any new assignment to it, until he was
arrested for trial before a court-martial, as hereinafter shown.

III. June 25, 1872, the following Special Order, No. 146,
was issued by the War Department:
":1. By direction of the President, a general court-martial
is hereby appointed -to meet at Louisville, Kentucky, on the
5th day of July, 1872, or as soon thereafter as practicable, for
the trial of 2d. Lieutenant John L. Graham, 13th Infantry,
and such other prisoners as may be brought before it."
Before the court-martial convened and organized under this
order, the said Runkle was arraigned and tfied on the following charges:
Charge I. - "1Violation of the act of Congress approved
Mtarch 2, 1863, c. 67, § 1.'
Charge II. -" Conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman."
The specifications presented unde these charges were all
based on acts alleged to have been done by the'claimant while
on duty as a disbursing officer of the Bureau of Refugees,
Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands. There were thirteen
specifications under the first charge, and fourteen under the
second. All the specifications averred acts done by him in the
year 1871, exc.ept the 1st and 5th under Charge I, and the 1st,
5th, and 14th under Charge II, all of which averred acts done
in 1870, before he was placed on the retired list. Of the 1st
and 5th specifications under Charge I, and of the 14th under
Charge II, he was found guilty. He was also found guilty of
ten other specifications under Charge I, and of five other
specifications under Charge II, all of which averred acts done
by him in 1871. He was also found guilty of both charges;
and was sentenced by the court to be cashiered; to pay the
United States a fine of $7500; and to be confined in such
penitentiary as the President of the United States might
direct, for the period of four years; and in the event of the
non-payment of the fine at the expiration of four years, that
he should be kept in confinement in the penitentiary until the
fine be paid; the total ferm of imprisonment, however, not to
exceed eight years.

RUNKLE .v. UNITED 'STATES.

"541t

Statement of the Case.

IV. The proceedings, findings, and sentence of said courtmartial were transmitted to the Secretary of War, who wrote
upon the record the following order: .
"The proceedings in the foregoing case of Major Benjamin
P. Runkle, retired, United States army, are approved, with
the exception of the action of the court in rejecting as evidence a certain letter written by a witness for the prbsecution,
and offered to impeach his credibility; also in unduly restricting the cross-examination of the same witness in relation to
the motives influencing his testimony.
"Inasmuch, however, as in the review of the case it was
determined that the whole testimony of this witness could be
excluded from consideration without impairing the force of
the testimony for the prosecution, upon which the findings
rest, the erroneous action of the court in this respect does not
affect the validity of the sentence.
"The findings and seitence are approved.
"In view of the unanimous recommendation by the members of the court that accused shall receive executive clemency
on account of his gallant services during the war, and of his
former good character, and in consideration of evidence, by"
affidavits presented to the War Department- since his trial,
showing that accused is now, and was atthe time when his
offence was committed, suffering under great infirmity in consequence of wounds received in battle, and credible representations having -been made that he would be utterly unable to
pay the fine.,imposed, the President is pleased to remit all of
the sentence, except so much thereof as directs cashiering,
which will be*duly executed.
m". W.

BELIKNAP,

" Secretary of "WVzr."

The said Secretary also issued, January 16, 1873, a General
Order of the War Department No. 7, series of* 1873, announcing the sentence of the court-martial, and that " Major Ben"amin P. Runkle, U. S. Army, (retired), ceases to be an officer
of the army from the date of this order."

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

From the date of this order till after August 4, 1877, the
claimant's name was not borne upon the Army Register.
V. August 4, 1877, R. B. Hayes, President of the United
States, made the following order:

"EXECUTIVE

:MIANION,

"TFashington, 4ugust 4, 1877.
"In the matter of the application of Major Benjamin P.
Runkle, U. S. Army (retired).
"The record of official action heretofore taken in the premises shows the following facts, to wit:
"First. That on the 14th of October, 1812, Major Runkle
was found guilty by court-m.artial upon the following charges,
to wit:
"Charge 1. 'Violation of the act of Congress approved
March 2, 1863, c., 67, § 1.'
"Charge 2. 'Conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman.'
"Second. That on the 16th of January, 1873, W. W. Belknap, then Secretary of War, approved the proceedings of
said court, and thereupon caused General Order No. 7, series
of 1873, to issue from the War Department, by which it was
announced that Major-Benjamin P. Runkle was cashiered from
the military service of the United States.
"Third. That subsequent to the date of said General Order
No. 7, to wit, on the 16th day of January, 1873, Major IRunkle
presented to the President a petition, setting forth that the
proceedings of said court had not been approved by the President of the United States, as required by law; that said conviction was unjust; that the record of said proceedings was
not in form or substance sufficient in law to warrant the issuing of said order, and asking the revocation and annulment of
the same.
"Fourth. That in pursuance of this petition, the record of
the official action theretofore had in the premises was, by
direction of the President, Ulysses S. Grant, referred to the
Judge Advocate General of the United States army for review
and report

RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.

549

Statement of-the Case.

"Fifth. That thereupon the. Judge Advocate, General reviewed the case, and made his report thereon, in which it is
reported and determined, among other things, that in the proceedings had upon the trial of the case by said court, ' it is nowhere affirmatively established that he (Major :Runkle) actually
appropriated any money to his own use.'
"It also appears in said report that the conviction of said
Runkle, upon charge one as afores aid, is shstained upon the
opinion that sufficient proof of the crime of embezzlement on
the part of the accused was disclosed by the evidence before.
the court. 'And with respect to charge two no reference to
the same is made in said report, except to deny the sufficiency
of the evidence in the case, for a conviction ulpon the fourteenth specification thereof; and it is to be observed that the
thirteen remaining specifications under this charge *are identical with the thirteen specifications under charge one.
"The Judge Advocate General further finds and determines
in said report as follows, to wit: .1For alleged failures- to pay,
or to pay in full,'-on the part of the sub-agents, II am of the
opinion that the accused cannot justly be held liable.'
"Sixth. That no subsequent proceedings have been had
with reference to said report, and that the said petition of said
Runkle now awaits further and final action thereon.
"Whereupon, having caused the said record, together with.
said report, to be laid before me, and having carefully considered the same, I am of opinion that the said conviction is not
sustained by the evidence in .the case, and the same, together
with the sentence of the court thereon, ard hereby disapproved; and it is directed that said Order No. 1, so far as it
relates to said Runkle, be revoked.

•

1R. B. H&Ys."

At the time of the issue by President Hayes of this order,
the number of officers on the retired list of the army was 300,
and continued so until November 19, 1877. During that period
the claimant was carried on the army records as additional to
the number of retired officers allowed by law, until a vacancy,
occurred on said last-named "date; since which date he has

QCTOBER TERM:, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

been borne on the retired list, and up to January 1, 1884, has
drawn pay to the amount of $23,58.62. Of this sum $9,195.27
was paid to him August 15, 1877, for the period from January
16,1873, the date of the order signed by Secretary Belknap;
to the 4th of August, 1877, the date of the order of President
Hayes.
VI. August 7,1877,the claimant addressed a letter to the
Paymaster General of the army, asserting his legal right to
pay as a retired major for the period of time between the
dates of those two orders. This letter the Paymaster General
referred to the Secretary of War, with the following indorsement:
"Respectfully forwarded to the Hon. Secretary of War.
"It has been enjoined that questions of payment in such
cases shall be submitted to the Secretary of War. See letter
of Tuly 7,1863, from Col. J. A. Hardee, Asst. .Adjt. General,
to the Paymaster General, stating the orders of the War Department, that I an officer restored to the service either by the
revocation of the order of dismissal or discharge, or by simple
restoration, is not entitled to pay for the period that he was
out of service, unless the same is expressly ordered by the War
Department.'

"The language of the Judge Advocate General on this point
is to the same effect. (See Judge Advocate's Digest of 1868,
p. 266.) 'Where an order of the War Department for the
dismissal, discharge, or muster-out of an officer is subsequently
revoked, and he reinstated in his former rank and position, it
is competent for the President, in his discretion,-to allow him
pay for the interval during which he was illegally separated
from the service under the original order."The course of military administration has, however, developed no precise rule on this subject, each case of a claim for
pay by such an officer having been, in practi.e, determined by
the special circumstances surrounding it.
C

BENJ. ALvorD,

"'Pym'" Generai U. S. Army.
"P. ]W. G. OFFioE, Aug. 9, 18.77.'

RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The Secretary of .War returned the letter to the Paymaster
General through the Adjutant Qeneral, and when it reached
the Paymaster General, it had on it the following indorsements:
"Respectfully returned (through the Adjutant General) to
the Paymaster General.
"By the order of the President of Aug. 4,1877, the approval
of the proceedings and sentence in the case of Major B. P.
Runkle, of date January 16, 1873, was revoked, the said proceedings and sentence were disapproved, and the order 6f dismissal was set aside.
"This order of. the President must be accepted by this Department as revoking said order of dismissal from its inception
and as annulling all its consequences. As Major Runde was,.
at the time of his trial and sentence, an officer of the retired
list, the fact that he has not been on duty in the interim can
make no difference, since a retired officer is not subject to
duty.
"The will, therofore, be paid, whenever funds are available
for that purpose. This indorsement has been submitted to and
is approved by the President.
"GEORGE W. McORARY,
"Secretary of War.
"W"B DEPT., -Auy. 13, 77.
"Noted and respectfully forwarded.
"E. D. TowxsEND,
"AUG. 14, '77.

..

Adj't Gen'l."

Upon receiving back the said letter with said indorsements,
the Paymaster General made thereon this indorsement:
"Respectfully keferred to Major Alexander Sharp, P. M.,
U. S. A., Present. Maj. Runkle was last paid to include Jan.
15, 1873.
"&s.
T. LARNED,
"6Actng Paynmr' Gi'Z U. S: Army.
0O. T. L., P. X . G. 0., Azg. 15, 1877.".

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Parties.

It was in obedience to the order of the President, signified
by the above indorsement of the Secretary of War, that the
claimaiit was paid the aforesaid smr of $9195.27.
Upon the foregoing facts ,tle conclusions of law were as
follows:
1. That the claimant is not entitled to recover longevity
pay.
2. That the defendants are not entitled, under their counterclaim, to recover the pay received by the claimant as a retired
major, which accrued after the 4th of August, 1877, amounting to $14,390.35.
3. That the defendants are entitled, under their counterclaim, to recover .of the claimant $9195.27, being the amount
paid him for the time between January 16, 1873, and August
4, 187t. 19 0. 01. 395.
From a judgment entered in accordance with these conclu?
sions both parties appealed.
)l&. Ifartin F. .forris for Runkle. .fr'. D.onn Piatt.and
.Afr. George IF. Xc Crary each filed a brief for same.
.&. Assistant Attorney General Howard for the United
States submitted on the record.'
1 The record contained among other things the opinion of the Court of
Claims delivered by DRAKE, C. J. The following extract froin that opinion
relates to the point decided by this court:
"The proceedings of the court in the claimant's case were transmitted t-0
the Secretary of War during thi Presidency of Ulysses S. Grant, and on the
16th of January, 1873, the Secretary wrote thereon the order set forth in
Ainding IV, and also in this opinion.
"The question is, whether by this order it appears that President Grant
confirmed the sentence of the court. The claimant contends that it does
not, and insists that the supposed confirmation was merely the act of the
Secretary, and not that of the President, and so was u confirmation at all.
It cannot be denied that this raises a question of no ordinary significance
in the administration of militarv law; but we think it not of very great
weight.
"In the first place, it is important to note that there is not, nor ever was,
anylaw requiring the President's confirmation of the sentence- of a courtmartial fo be attested by his sign manual, "

RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cburt.

MR. CHIEF JuSTIOE WArmr., after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

We will first consider the second of the questions referred
to the Court of Claims, namely:
"In the Inext place, referring to the act of August 7,178 9, 'to establish an
Executive Department, -to be denominated the Department of War,' 1 Stat.
49, Substantially retained in § 216 of the Revised Statutes, we find'that the
Secretary of War is toperform and execute such duties as shall be enjoined
on or intrusted to him by the President relative to the land or naval forces,
and to conduct the business of the War Department in such mr-ner as the
President sball, from time to time, order and instruct.
"We need not discuss the relations established between the President and
the Secretary of War by that act; for that matter was long ago settled by
the Supreme Court of the United States, and we have only to refer to its
rulings.
"In Wflcoz v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, the question was whether an order of .
the Secretary of War directing certain public lands to be reserved for military purposes, was authorized under a statute declaring all lands exempted
from prebmption which are reserved from sale by order oI the President.
The Supreme Court held the order of the Secretary of War to be in law that
of the President, and the opinion of the-court uses this language:
'Althofigh the immediate agent in requiring this reservation was the
Secretary of War, yet we feel justified in presuming that it was done by
the approbation and direction of the President. The President speak~s and
acts through the heads of the several Departments in. relation to subjects
which appertain to their respective duties. Both military posts and Indian
affairs, including agencies, belong Io the War Department. Hence we'
consider the -act of the War Department in requiring this reservation -. o
be. made, as being in legal contemplation the act of the President; and
consequently, that the reservation thus made was in legal effect a reservation made by order of the President, within the terms of the act of Congress.
"In United States v. Eliason,16 Pet. 291, the question was whether a regulation promulgated by the War Department was the act of the President,
and the court said:
'The Secretary of War is the regular constitutional organ of the President for the administration of the military establishment of the nation;
and rules and orders promulged through him must be received as the acts
of the Executive, and, as such, be binding upon all within the sphere of his
legal and constitutional authority.'
"After these decisions it cannot, in this court at least, be considered an
open question, whether an approval of the proceedings and sentence of a
court-martial, announced by-an order of the Secretary of War, as in this
case, is to be regarded as the act of the President.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court..

"Were the proceedings and findings of said court-martial
regular, and the sentence duly approved by the President of
United States, as required by law?"
"It is not without use, in this connection, to refer to army precedents in
like cases. We have obtained from the Department of Justice a copy of
an unpublished opinion given June 6, 1877, by Attorney General Devens to
President Hayes in regard to the case of the claimant; from which, with
the permission of the head of that Department, we make the following
extracts, embodying historical facts of interest and value*:
I .'It is remarked by Major Runkle's counsel, in a printed argument filed
with the papers,-that "-allof'our earlier Presidents signed the approval of
such sentences, and it is believed that it was only during the last Administration that the contrary practice prevailed."
' But I have before me several instances of the "contrary practice" happening prior to 1860, one of.which occurred nearly half a century ago.
'Thus, in the case of First Lieutenant William S. Colquhoun, 7th Infantry, who was tried by court-martial and sentenced to be cashiered in
1829, the determination of the President (which confirmed the sentence,
except as tb the disqualification from thereafter holding any office in the
army) was signified through the Secretary of War, Mr. Eaton, in a statement signed by the latter, purporting to be "by command of the President."
' So, in the case of First Lieutenant R. M. Cochrane, 4th Infantry, who,
in 1844, was sentenced to be cashiered by a court-martial, the determination
of the President, confirming the sentence, wa. signified through the Secretary of War, Mr. Wilkins. Here the latter made known the action of the
President by indorsing upon the record of the proceedings and signing the
following brief statement: "The proceedings, finding, and sentence of the
court are approved, Nov. 28, 1844."
' So in the case of Major George B. Crittenden, Mounted Riflemen, who
was sentenced to be cashiered by a court-martial in 1848, the determination
of the President, confirming the sentence, was announced through the
Secretary of War, Mr. Marcy, by a statement indorsiug upon the record,
and signed by the latter, which reuds thus: "The President approves of the
proceedings aud sentence in the case of Major Crittenden, and directs the
proper order to be issued thereon."
' So, in the case of Brevet Lieutenailt-Colonel William R. Montgomery,
major, 2d Infantry, who, in 1855, was sentenced by a court-martial to be
dismissed the service, the determination of the President, confirming the
sentence, was in like manner sigfiifled through the Secretary of War, Mr.
Davis.
' So, in the case- of First Lieutenant .J:ohn W. Perkins, 1st Cavalry, who,
in 1859, was sentenced by a court-martial to be cashiered, the action of the
President, confirming the sentence, was in like manner signified through
the Secretary of War, Mr. Floyd.
'I am informed by inquiry at the, office of the Judge Advocate General

RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.

555

Opinion of the Court.

The 65th Article of War, 2 Stat. 367, c. 29, in force at the
time of these proceedings, was as fpllows:
"Any general officer commanding an army, or colonel commanding a separate department, may appoint general court&martial, whenever necessary. But no sentence of a courtmartial shall be carried into execution until after the whole
proceedings shall have been laid before the officer ordering
the same, or the officer commanding the, troops for the time
being; neither shall any sentence of a general court-martial,
in the time of peace, extending to the loss of life, or the dismission of a commissioned officer, or which shall, either in
time of peace or war, respect a general officer, be carried into
execution, until after the whole proceedings shall have been
transmitted to the Secretary of War, to be laid before the
President of the United States, for his confirmation or disapproval, and orders, in the case. All other sentences may be
confirmed and execute'd by the officer ordering the court to
assemble, or the commanding officerfor the time being, as
the case may be."
Thus it appears that-the sentence bf a general court-martial,
in time of peace, to the effect that a commissioned officer be
cashiered- dismissed from service- is inoperative until approved by the President. B6fore then it is interlocutory and
inchoate only. Mills v. :Martin, 19 Johns. 7, 30,; Simmons on
Courts-]Nartial, 6th ed, ch. XVII, p. 294.
A court-martial organized under the laws of tht United
States is a court of special and limited jurisdiction. It is
called into existence for a special purpose and to perform a
particular duty. When the object of its creation has been
that numerous instances have occurred since the case lasi mentioned, in
which the determination of the President, confirming sentences of dismissal
by court-martial, has been signified and attested in the same way.',
"We might go further and point to what seems to us to be incontrovertible internal evidence in Secretary Belknap's order of its expressing not his,
but President Grant's decision; but this opinion has been extended to
such length that we forbear to discuss that subject. Our unhesitating
judgment is, that the finding and sentence of the court were legally confirmed by President Grant, and that from .he date of the official prom ulgation of their confirmation the claimant ceased to be an officer of the army."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

accompl'shed it is dissolved.

3 Greenl. Ev. § 470; Brooks v.

'Adams, 11 Pick. 441). 442; -. ills v. .Martin,supra; DuffIeld
v. Smith, 3 S. & R. 590, 599.
Such also is the effect of the
decision of this court in Wfise v. Withers, 3 Cranch, 331, which,
according to the-interpretation given it by Chief" Justice Mffarshall in & yarte Wtatkin8, 3 Pet.-193, 207, ranked a courtmartial as "one of those inferior courts of limited jurisdiction
whose judgments may be questioned collaterally." To give
effect to its sentences it must appear affirmatively and unequivocally that the court was legally constituted; that it had
jurisdictibn; that all the statutory regulations governing its
proceedings had been complied with, and that its sentence was
conformable to law. Dynes v. Hoover, 20.How. 65, 80; .Mslls
v: 3artin, 19 Johns. 33. There are no presumptions in its
favor so far as these matters are concerned. As to them, the
rule announced by Chief S'ustice M'larshall in Brow v. .eene,
8 Pet: 112, 115, in respect to averments of jurisdiction in the
courts of the United States, applies. His language is: "The
decisions of this court require, that averment of jurisdiction
shall be positive- that the declaration shall 9tate expressly
the fact on which jurisdiction depends. It is not sufficient
that jurisdiction may be inferred, argumentatively, from its
averments." All this is equally true of the proceedings of
courts-martial. Their authority is statutory, and the statute
under which they proceed must be followed throughout. The
,facts necessary to show their jurisdiction and that their sentences were conformable to law must be stated positively;
and it is not enough that they may be inferred argumentatively.
As the sentence now under consideration involved the
dismissal of Rgunkle from the army, it could not become
operative -until approved by the President, after the whole
proceeding of the court-iartial had been laid before him.
The important question is, therefore, whether that, approval
has been positively shown.
The Court of Claims has found as a fact in the case that the
"proceedings, findings, and sentence of said court-martial
were transmitted to the Secretary of War," but it has -not

RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

found that they were laid .before the President, or acted on by.
him, otherwise than may be inferred argumentatively from
the orders of the Secretary of War, and the subsequent action.
of President Grant and President Hayes.
There can be no doubt that the President, in the exercise
of his executive power under the Constitution, may act
through the head of the appropriate executive department.
The heads of departments are his authorized assistants in the
performance of his executive duties, and their official acts,
promulgated in the regular course of business, are presumptively. his acts., That has been many times decided by this
court. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 513; Uvited States v.
Eliason, 16 Pet. 291, 302; Confscation Cases, 20 Wall. 92,
109; United States v. Farden, 99 IT. S. 10, 19; IFolsey v.
Chapman, 101 U. S. -755, 769.
Here, however, the action required of the President isjudicial in its character, not administrative. As Commander-inChief of the Army he has been made by law the person: whose
duty it is to review the proceedings of courts-martial in cases
of this kind. This implies that he is himself to consider, the
proceedings laid before him and decide personally whether
they ought to be carried into effect. Such a power he cannot
delegate. His personal judgment is required, as much so as
it would have been in passing on the case, if he had been one
of the members of the court-martial itself. He may call
others to his assistance in making his examinations and in
informing himself as to what ought to e done, but his judgment, when pronounced, must be his own judgment and not
that of another. And this bdcause he is the person, and the
only person, to whom has been committed the important judicial power of finally determining upon an examination of the
whole proceedings of a court-martial, whether an officer holding a commission in the army of the United States shall be
dismissed from service as a punishment for an offence with
which he has been charged, and for which he has been tried.
In this connection the following remarks of Attorney Gen'eral
Bates, in an opinion furnished President, Lincoln, under date
of March 12, 1864, 11 Opinions Attorneys General, 21, are
-appropriate:

OCTOBER TERk, 188G.
Opinion of the Court.

"Undoubtedly the President, in passing upon the sentence
of a court-martial, and giving to it the approval without
which it cannot be executed, acts judicially. The whole proceeding from its inception is judicial. The trial, finding, 'and
sentence are the solemn' acts -of a court organized and conducted under the authority of and according to the prescribed
forms of law. It sits to pass upon the most sacred questions
of human rights that are ever placed on trial in a court of
justice; rights which, in the very nature of things, can neither
be exposed to danger nor subjected to the uncontrolled will of
any man, but which must be adjudged accordiig to 7aw. And
the act of the officer who reviews the proceedings of the
court, whether he be 'the commander of the fleet or the President,, and without whose approval the sentence cannot be
executed, is as much a part of this judgment, according to law,
.as is the trial or the sentence. When the President, ,then,
performs this duty of ,pproving the sentence ,ofa court-martial dismissing an officer, his act has all the solemnity and
significance of the judgment of a court of law."
We go, then, to the record to see whether it shows positively
and distinctly that the sentence dismisting Runkle from the
service was approved by President Grant. It does appear
.affirmatively that it was disapproved by President Hayes;
and if not approved by President Grant, Runkle was never
legally out of the service., It is true that, if it had been
approved, the subsequent disapproval would have been a nullity,
and could not have the effect of restoring him to. his place;
but, if not approved, he was never out, and the disapproval
-kept him in, the same as if 'the court-martial had never been
convened for his trial. In Blake v. United Sates, 103 U. S.
227, followed in United States v. Tyler, 105 U. S. 244, it was
decided that the President had power to supersede or remove
an officer of the army by the appointment, by and with the
consent of the Senate, of his successor; but here there was
nothing of that kind. Runkle was never removed otherwise
than by the sentence of the court-martial, and the order of
the War Department purporting to give it effect.
Coming then to the order on which reliance is had to show

RUNKLE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the approval of President Grant, we find it capable of diision
into two separate parts, one relating to the approval of the
proceedings and sentence, and the other to the executive clemency which was invoked, and exercised. It is signed by the
Secretary of War alone, and the personal action. of the President in the matter is nowhere mentioned, except in the remis,
sion of a part of the sentence. There is nothing which-dan
have the effect of an affirmative statement that "the whole
proceedings" had been laid before him for action, or that he
personally approved the sentence. The facts found by the'
Court of Claims show that the proceedings, findings, and
sentence of the court-martial "were transmitted to the Secretary of War, and that he wrote the order thereon," but there
they stop. What he wrote is in the usual form of departmental orders, and, so far as it relates to the approval of the
sentence, indicates on its face departmental action only.
What follows in the order does not, to say the least, clearly
show the contrary. It relates"to the executive clemency which
was exercised, and then, for the first and only time, it appears,
in express terms, that the President acted personally in the
matter. It is there said: "The President is pleased to remit
all of the sentence, except so much thereof as directs cashiering." If all the rest of the .order was-the result of the personal action of the President, why was itreferred to here and
not elsewhere?' Might it not fairly be argued from this that
the rest was deemed departmental business, and that part
alone personal which required the exercise of the personal
power of the President, under the Constitution, of granting
pardons. And besides, according to the order as it stands,
this action of the President was had, not on "the whole proceedings," but "in view of the unanimous recommendation of
the members of the court," "the former good character" of
the accused, and "in consideration of evidence, by affidavits,
presented to the War Department since the trial," and "credible representations." If "the whole proceedings". had actually been laid before him, as required by the Article of War,
it was easy to say so.
Then, again, at the end of the order are these words, "which

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

[the sentence] will be duly executed." That which immediately preceded related to the remission of a part of the sentence, and the Secretary was careful to say that this was done
by the President in person. The omission of any such language, or implication even, in the words which were added,
leaves the order open to the construction that the Secretary
was acting all the time on the idea that the personal judgment of the President was required only in reference to that
part'of the proceeding which involved the exercise of the
pardoning power, and that the rest belonged to the Department.
Still further, it appears, from the order of President Hayes,
that " the record of official action" showed that "on the 16th
of January, 1873, W. W. Belknap, then Secretary of War,
approved the proceedings of said court," and thereupon issued
the order frbm the War Department announcing that iRunkle
was cashiered, and that ,after this order was issued, but on the
same dar, I unkle presented to President Grant a petition setting-forth, among other things, "that the proceedings of said
court had not been approved by the" President of the United
States as required by law." This petition was not -only received by President Grant, but it was by him referred to the
Judge Advocate General for "review and report." Upon this
reference the Judge Advocate General acted and reported on
the whole case. President Grant did nothing further in the
premises, and the matter remained open when President
Hayes came into office. He thdn took it up as unfipished
business, ,and, acting as though the proceedings had never
been approved, entered an order of disapproval.
Under these circumstances, we cannot say it positively and
distinctly appears that the proceedings of the court-martial
have ever in fact been approved or confirmed in whole or in
part by the President of the United States, as the Articles of
War required, betore the sentence could be carried into execution. Consequently, Major Runkle was never legally cashiered
or dismissed from the army, and he is entitled to his longevity
pay, as well'as that which he has already received for his
regular pay, both before the order of Secretary Belknap was
revoked.and afterwards.

CHICAGO, &c.,

RAILROAD v. GUFFEY.
Syllabus.

Such being our view of the case, it is unnecessary to consider any of the .other questions which were referred to the
Court of Claims. Neither do we decide what the precise form
of an order of the President approving the proceedings and
sentence of a court-martial should be; nor that his own signature must be affixed thereto. But we are clearly of opimon,
that it will not be suffiient un'less it is authenticated in a .way
to show otherwise than argumentatively that it is the result
of the judgment of the President himself, and that it is not a,
mere departmental order which might or might not have
attracted his personal attention. The fact that the order was
his own should not be left to inference only.
The judgment of the Court of CMaims is reversed, and the
cause r'ermandedfor further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND KANSAS CITY
RAILROAD v. GUJFFEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Submitted April 4, 1887.-

Decided May 23,1887.

It being now conceded that' the taxes in suit refer not only to the branch
referred to in the former opinion of the court in this cas6, reported
in 120 U. S. 569-575, but to the taxes assessea upon that part of the
main line which extends from Unionville in Putnam County to the
boundary line between Missouri and Iowa, the court now, decides,, oir
an application for a rehearing:
(1) That it is satisfied with the construction which it has already given.
to the statute of the legislature of Missouri of March 21, 1868:
(2) That the statute of that legislature enacted March 24, 1870, as in.
terpreted by the court, ii its application to the main line, does not
impair the obligation of any contract which the St. Joseph & Iowa.
Railroad Company had, by its charter, with the State of Missouri.
The statute of Missouri of March 24, 1870 (Art. 2, c. 37, 57 Wagner's
Statutes of Missouri, 1872) subjecting to taxation railroads acquired by
a foreign corporation by lease, also applies to roads acquired by *such
corporations by purchase.
No question arises in this case under the provision in the charter of the
VOL. cxxu-36

