SHIPPEN v. B0WEN.
Statement of the Case.

of 1871 to the Burlington and Southwestern Railway Company
was given by the act of 1870, and does not appear to have
existed before that time. In no view of the case; therefore,
were the conditions prescribed by that act in violation of any
right possessed by the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company
under its charter. If that corporation elected to make an
absolute sale of its road, with its property, rights, privileges,
and franchises, under the authority given by the act of 1870,
they passed to its grantee, subject to the condition that its
road, in Missouri, so sold, should thereafter be subject to taxation.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are satisfied with
the construction we have heretofore given to the act of 1868.
And we are, also, of opinion that the act of 1870, as in this
opinion interpreted, does not impair the obligation of any contract, which the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company had,
by its charter, with the state of Missouri.
[The rehearing is denied, and the judgment of ajflrmance,
heretofore entered, must, upon the grounds staMd in this
and the orighial opinion, stand as the judgment of this
court.

SHIPPEN '. BOWEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted April 22, 1837. -Decided

May 27, 1887.

In an action in tort, for the breach of an express warranty that-bonds sold
to plaintiff were genuine and valid bonds of a' municipality, when In
fact they were forgeries, and false and fraudulent, to which was joined
a declaration in deceit on the same cause of action, the warranty is the
gist of the action, and It is not necessary to allege or to prove a scienter.

THIS writ of error brought up for review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado,
in an ction brought by the plaintiff in error to recover dam-

.576

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of the Case.

ages for the delivery to him of certain sheets of written and
printed paper, purporting to be the valid and genuine. bonds,
with interest coupons attached, of the county of Clark, in the
state of Arkansas, issued under and in accordance with the
provisions of an act of the General Assembly of that state,
approved April 29, 1873, entitled "An act to authorize certain
counties to fund their outstanding indebtedness;" but which
false and spurious forgeries,"
instruments, it was alleged, were "1
imposing no legal obligation whatever upon said county. The
plaintiff alleged that, in consideration of a certain sum paid by
him in cash to the defendant, the latter sold and agreed forthwith to deliver to him valid and genuine bonds-of said county,
of the above description, but delivered the said spurious and
forged bonds in execution of the terms of such sale and agreement; that the defendant, at the time of such delivery,
"falsely and fraudulently represented and warrante" said.
forged bonds "to be genuine and valid bonds and interest coupons of said county;" that the plaintiff, "relying on such
representation and warranty, received and -accepted the same
from defendant, supposing them to be such genuine and valid
bonds and interest coupons;" and that, "by said tortions and
wrongful act and fraudulent breaches *of said agreement and
warranty of genuineness, done and committed by defendant in
the delivery by him as afoiesaid of such spurious, forged, and
altered instruments, the plaintiff had been subjected to great
loss and damage," &c.
The defendant denied that the bonds and coupons delivered
by him were spurious or forged, and averred that they were, in
law, genuine, valid obligations of the county of Clark, and
were delivered by him in' the belief that they were of that
character. He also denied that "he ever, at any time, expressly or by implication, warranted said bonds and coupons
so sold and delivered by him to plaintiff to be genuine bonds
and coupons of said county of Clark." He averred that the
plaintiff purchased and received them "at his own risk- as to
the validity and genuineness thereof, and without any warranty on the part of defendant, "express or implied, against
such defects or infirinitios in said bonds and coupons."

SHIPPEN v. BOWEN.
Statement of the Case.

The original complaint and answer contained other allegations, but it is not necessary in the view taken of the case, to
set them out.
The plaintiff amended his complaint, adding all the allegations which are essential, under any system of pleading, to
support an action for deceit. These allegations were traversed
by. the defendant, and, upon a trial before a jury, there was a
verdict and judgment in his favor.
The bill of exceptions stated that the plaintiff, to sustain the
issues on his part, introduced evidence tending to show that at
the date mentioned in the complaint defendant sold to him,
for eight thousand dollars, ninetyoone sheets of paper purporting to be Clark County, Arkansas, funding bonds; that said
sheets of paper were forgeries, and not genuine bonds, as they
purported on their face to be; that defendant, at the time of
sale, expressly affirmed their regularity and validity, although
he knew, or had reason to suspect, at the time, that they
were not genuine and valid; that plaintiff believed and supposed that they were genuine and valid, and relied upon
'defendant's representations to that effect; and that plaintiff
had no notice or knowledge that defendant was acting in said
sale as agent for another person.
The defendant introduced evidence tending to show that
said papers were genuine and valid Clark County, Arkansas,
funding bonds; that at the time of the sale he made no statement, representation, or warranty as to their genuineness or
validity, but, on the contrary, stated that he knew nothing of
the circumstances under which they were issued; that he had
neither notice nor knowledge of any want of validity or of
any defects in said bonds, nor notice of any facts which would
have aroused suspicion in reference to them; that, in the sale
of said bonds to plaintiff, he was acting as the agent of Charles
W. Tankersley, from whom he had received the bonds shortly
before their sale, but did not at the time disclose to plaintiff
his agency.
The court charged the jury that, upon the facts- conceded
before them, the bonds, by reason of certain unauthorized
alterations of the coupons, were not valid and genuine obliga
VOL. cxxI-37

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Statement of the Case.

tions of the county of Clark. The jury were also instructed,
that whoever sells such instruments as those delivered to the
plaintiff, "if nothing whatever be said in respect to their
character, by the act of selling warrants them to be the
genuine obligations of the county; that is, that they are not
forged or counterfeited, but are the true and proper obligations of the county, such as they purported to be on their
face; and upon an action for breach of warranty, or an action
upon the contract, the defendant would undoubtedly, beyond
all question, -be liable for the amount which he received for
the bonds; . . . but this action is not of that character,
that is, it is not an action upon the contract alone. As I said
to you in the outset, it is an action for a false representation,
or for a misrepresentation of fact, and there must be something more to maintain this action than the implied warranty
which arises from the act of selling, and which is an inference
of law coming from the act of selling." The court'said further upon the subject of warranty: "It is not claimed that
there were any direct representations in respect to the genuineness of those bonds made at the time of the sale thereof,
except in this way: I think Mr. Shippen states that the
defendant said he would warrant the title to the bonds. I
will not undertake to repeat what the witnesses said in respect
to that matter; the only witnesses were the parties to the
suit, I believe, as to what was stated at the time." Without
giving more of the charge, it is sufficient to say that its scope
is indicated by the circuit judge in the opinion delivered by
him when denying the plaintiff's motion for a new trial. He
said: "The complainant charges that, to induce plaintiff to
purchase certain bonds, the defendant represented that they
were genuine and valid bonds, whereas, in truth and in fact,
they were worthless. forgeries. The court charged the jury
that it was necessary for plaintiff to show that the defendant,
at the time of the sale of the bonds to the plaintiff, misrepresented the facts concerning their genuineness. In other
words, the court was of the opinion, and so charged the jury,
that plaintiff could not recover in this action by merely proving a sale of the bonds to him by defendants and that the

SHIPPEN v. BOWEN.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

bonds were forgeries. It was held to be necessary to prove
kmowledge on the part of the defendant of the forged character of the bonds, or an express misrepresentation concerning
the fact of their genuineness. The counsel for plaintiff insists
that in such a case as this no scienter need be alleged, nor if
alleged need be proved. I am unable to concur in the soundness of this proposition."
XIr. George E. Adams for plaintiff in error.
Xr. G. G. Synes for defendant in error.
The court charged the jury in substance that on the evidence the bonds were invalid; that if the action had been
brought on the contract of sale for the value of the bonds the
defendant would have been liable; that the action is not one
of contract, but an action for false representations and deceit,
and to maintain such action there must be proof of false representations or of the scienter or knowledge of the fraud.
Fraud in all cases implies a wilful act on the part of any one
whereby another is sought to be deprived by illegal or inequitable means of what he is entitled to. Kerr on Fraud and
Mistake; Green v. Hrixon, 23 Beav. 530, 535.
In the case of the sale of goods and chattels the rule of.
caveat emptor applies to the title unless the seller knows he
has no title and conceals the fact. Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 105, 106, 108, and cases there cited.
The vendor is not bound to disclose to the vendee the ownership of the property he is engaged in selling, but he is bound
to abstain from making any misrepresentations respecting the
ownership. Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 86, and the cases
there cited. In Youtng v. Coville, 8 Johns. 23, 24 [. C. 5
Am. Dec. 316], which was an action of deceit, the court says:
"It is well settled that this action cannot be sustained without
proving actual fraud in the defendant and an intention to
-deceive the plaintiff by false representations."
In _fahurinv. Harding,28 N. H. 128 [S. C. 59 Am. Dec. 401],
the averments and proof required both in assumpsit on warranty

OCTOBER ,TERM, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

-of title, and in an action of trespass on the case for deceit, and
the distinctions are clearly set forth and many cases cited.
The learned judge in this case has classified many authorities covering all the questions that arise in the case at bar and
reference to the learned opinion is all-sufficient in this controversy.
Did the court charge the jury in accordance with these rules
of law? The judge charged the jury "that the plaintiff could
recover if the defendant had actual knowledge -of the way in
which the bonds were issued; that is, of the facts which made
them illegal, or made any representations whatsoever regarding 'them." It seems to us this was extending the rule too far
against the defendant. But it cannot certainly be maintained
that the charge was not. very favorable to the plaintiff.
Judge McCrary, in his opinion overruling the motion for a
new trial, says, "it is an action ex delicto in the usual form of
a declaration fordeceit. The complaint charges that to induce plaintiff to purchase certain bonds, the defendant represented them as genuine and valid bonds, whereas in truth and
in fact thby were worthless forgeries. The court charged the
jury that it was necessary for the plaintiff to show that defendant at the time of the sale of the bonds to plaintiff, misrepresented the facts concerning their genuineness. In other words,
the court was of the opinion, and so charged the jury, that
plaintiff could not recover in this action by merely proving a
sale of. the bonds to him by the defendant and that the bonds
were forgeries. It was held to be necessary to prove knQwledge on the part of the defendant of the forged character of
the bonds, or an express misrepresentation concerning the fact
of their genuineness. The counsel for the plaintiff insists that
in such a case as this no scienter need be alleged, nor if alleged
need be proved. I am unable to concur in the soundness of
this proposition." This presents the whole case very precisely..
It is unnecessary to pursue the argument.- Everything we
contend4 for consists of 'undeniable, elementary propositions.
That the scienter is the very gist of a tort; that a recovery
cannot be had in an action of tort without averring and prov-

SHIPPEN v. BOWEN.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the scienter, and that this -is an action ex deZicto, to wit:
an action of trespass on the' case for deceit, cannot be controverted.
The charge of the district judge and the opinion of the circuit judge in overruling the motion for new trial make the
case so plain, elaboration in the argument is unnecessary.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that it was error to instruct the jury that
the plaintiff could not recover, in the present action, unless he
established the scienter upon the part of the defendant. The
original complaint -though, perhaps, iot in the most concise.
language -made a case in tort for the breach of an express
warranty in the sale of the bonds. The bill of exceptions
states that the evidence in behalf of the plaintiff tended to
show that, although the defendant knew or had reason to suspect, when the bonds were sold, that they were not genuine
and valid, he "1expressly affirmed their regularity and validity." These words may not necessarily import an express warranty. But no particular phiaseology or form of words is
necessary to create a warranty of that character. As was
held by the Court of Appeals of Maryland, in Osgood v. Lewisi
2 H. &. G. 495, 518, "any affirmation of the quality or condition of the thing sold, (not uttered as matter of opinion or
belief,) made by the seller at the time of sale, for the purpose
of assuring the bujer of the truth of the fact affirmed, and
inducing him'to make the purchase; -if
so received and relied
on by the purchaser, is an express warranty. And in cases of
oral contracts, on the existence of these necessary ingredients
to such a warranty, it is the province of the jury to decide,
upon considering all the circumstances attending the transaction." To the same effect are Henshaw v.. -Roins,9 Met. 83,
88; Oneida )ff' g Society v. -Lawrence,4 Cowefi, 440,442; Cook
v. toseley, 13 Wend. 277; Chapm n v. Jiirck, 19 Johns. 290;
Hawkins v. Berry, 5 Gilman, (Ill.) 36; .A-ocGregor v. Penn, 9

Yerger, T4, 77; Otts v. Alderson, 10 Sm. & Marsh. 416. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff was clearly entitled to go to the jury on the issue as
to an express warranty. But he was, in effect, denied that
right by the instruction that he could not recover in this action, unless he proved a scienter. It is true his pleadings also
contained every allegation essential to support an action for
deceit, apart from the issue as to express warranty. But the
cause of action in tort for the breach of the express warranty
was not obliterated, or removed from the case, because it was
joined with a cause of action for deceit.
In Schuchardt v. Alleus, 1 Wall. 359, 368, which was an
action on the case for a false warranty on the sale of certain
goods-the declaration also containing a count for deceitthe court said that it was now well'settled, both in English and
American jurisprudence, that either case or assumpsit would
lie for a false warranty, and that, "whether the declaration
be in assumpsit or tort, it need not aver a scienter; and if
the averment be made, it need not be proved." It was also
aid, that, "if the declaration be in tort, counts for deceit may
be added to the special counts, and a recovery may be had for
the false warranty or for the deceit, according to the proof.
Either will sustain the action." See also Dustane v. Benzediet, 120 U. S. 630, 636. In I Ohitty's Pleadings, 137, the
author says, that 'case or assumpsit may be supported for a
false warranty on the sale of goods, and that, "in an action
upon the case in tort for a breach of a waranty of goods, the
scienter need not be laid in the declaration, nor, if charged, could
it be proved." In -Lasseterv. -Jard,11 Iredell Law, 443, 444,
Ruffin, C. J., citing Stuart v. Vilkins, Doug. 18, and WFilliamson v. Allison, 2 East, 446, said: "It was accordingly there
held that the declaration might be in tort, with6ut alleging a
scienter, and, if it be alleged in addition to the warranty, that
it need not be proved. The doctrine of the case is, that, when
there is a warranty, that is the gist of the action, and that it
is only when there is no warranty that a scienter need be alleged or proved. It is nearly a half century since the decision,
and during that period the point has been considered at rest,
and many actions have been brought in tort, as well as ex contractu, on false warranties." And so in H-ouse v. Fo't, 4

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
Syllabus.

BlackfQrd, 293, 295, it was said that "the breach of an express warranty is of itself a valid ground of action whether
the suit be founded on tort or on contract;" and that, "in the
action on tort, the forms 'of the declaration are, that the
defendant falsely and fraudulently warranted, &c., but the
words falsely and fraudulently, in such cases, are considered
as only matters of form." But as to the scienter, the court
said, "that is not necessary to'be laid, when there is a warranty, though thc action be in tort; or, if the scienter be laid,
in such a case, there is no necessity of proving it." See also
Hillman v. TWilcox, 30 Maine, 170; Osgood v. Lewis, 2 Ilarr.
& Gill, 495, 520; Trice v. cockran, 8 Grattan, 4412, 450; Gresham v. Postan, 2 Car. & P. 540.
As the evidence entitled the plaintiff to go to the jury upon
the issue of express warranty as to the genuineness of the
bonds and coupons, and as the jury were in effect instructed
that he could not recover, unless upon allegation and proof of
the soienter,
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded, with.
instructions to set aside the judgment and grant a new
trial.
MR. JusTwic

FIELD dissented.

SUN INSURANCE CO. v. KOUNTZ LINE.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued January 17, 18, 1887. -Decided

May 23, 1887.

A person who conducts himself with reference to the general public in
such a way as to induce others, acting with reasonable caution, to
believe that he is a partner in a partnership, is liable as sucl, to a creditor of the partnership who contracted with it under such belief, altlough
he is not in fact a partner.
The defendants in error so conducted themselves towards the geueral
public, in their business relations with each other, as to juduce a shiler,

