OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

:MORRISON v. DURR.
APPEAL FROM

THE OIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR.

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Argued April 27, 28, 187.- Decided May 27, 1887.
In this case the bill having called for answers under oath, and such answers
having been made denying each and every allegation of fraud, and the
evidence of two witnesses, or of one witness corroborated by circumstances, being wanting in support of the charges of fraud, this court
will not reverse the decree dismissing the bill.

Iw equity.

Decree dismissing the bill.

Plaintiff appealed.

ifr. LppaH
_ntom for appellants.
.U . Edward J. P'ingle for appellee.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit in equity brought by several judgment creditors of the mercantile firm of Kennedy & Durr, to set aside a
sale of the goods of the firm of Charles McDermot, under
executions on judgments in his favor, on the ground of fraud,
and to have thd property and its proceeds in the hands of
McDermot subjected to the payment of the amounts due them
respectively. The bill called for answers under oath, and
MciDermot answered accordingly, denying each and all of the
allegations of fraud which were made against -him. This

being responsive to the bill, his denials must be overcome by
the satisfactory evidence of two witnesses, or of one witness
corroborated by circumstances which are equivalent in weight
to another, before the complainants can be granted the relief
they ask. No such proof has been made. We have looked
carefully through the whole evidence, and, while it is full of
circumstances calculated to excite suspicion, there is not enough
to justify us in reversing the decree of the court below dismiss-

TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CO. v. SEELIGSON.

519

Argument for Appellant.

ing the bill. The questions involved are principally of fact,
which it would serve no useful purpose to consider at length
in an opinion.

he &cree is afwmed.

TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CO. v. SEELIGSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COMCUrr COURT OF THE UNMED

bTATES FOP

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted April 25, 1887.- Decided May 27,1887.
If a cause pending in a state court against several defendants is removed
thence to the Circuit .Court of the United States on the petition of one
of the defendants under the act of 1875, 18 Stat. 470, on the grounds of
a separate cause of action against the petitioning defendant, ia which
the controversy was wholly between citizens of different states, it
should be remanded to the state court if the action Is discontinued in
the Circuit Court as to the petitioning defendant.

Tins was an appeal from an order remanding a cause to the
state court from whence it had been removed. The case is
stated in the opinibn of the court.
.fM.

. _N. WTdu for appellants.

I. The case was properly removed from the state court, there
being a separable controversy between the plaintiff, a citizen
of Texas, on one side, and Huntingon, a citizen of New York,
on the other side, ta which the other defendants were not
necessary parties-the only allegation against 0. P. Huntington being that he is the owner of the note for $335,000 and
the trust deed to secure the same - and the prayer on the
original petition to annul and cancel the note and trust deed.
II. There is a controversy between the defendant, C. P.
Huntington, a citizen of New York, on one side, and the
plaintiff and the other defendants on the other side, in which
the interest of the plaintiff and the Texas Transportation Coin-

