FISHMAN v. SCHAFFER

1325

Opinion in Chambers

FISHMAN

v. SCHAFFER, SECRETARY OF STATE
OF CONNECTICUT, ET AL.

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR INJUNCTION

No. A-257. Decided October 1, 1976
Application for an injunction ordering that the names of the Communist
Party candidates for President and Vice President be placed on the ballot
in Connecticut for the November 2, 1976, election is denied. The question of the constitutionality of the allegedly unduly burdensome filing
procedures prescribed by the Connecticut statute for access to the ballot
is too novel and uncertain to warrant a single Justice's acting unilaterally.
Moreover, applicants delayed unnecessarily in commencing suit attacking
the statute, and respondent state officials claim that an injunction at
this time would have a chaotic and disruptive effect upon the electoral
process. McCarthy v. Briscoe, ante, p. 1317; Williams v. Rhodes, 89 S.
Ct. 1, 21 L. Ed. 2d 69; Williams v. Rhodes, 393 U. S. 23, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, Circuit

Justice.

This is an application to me as Circuit Justice for an injunction ordering officials of the State of Connecticut to place
on the ballot for the November 2 election the names of the
Communist Party candidates for President and Vice President of the United States, Gus Hall and Jarvis Tyner, respectively. Applicants' sought relief without success from
a three-judge District Court for the District of Connecticut
and, on appeal, from the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.2

While there is no question of my power to grant

'Applicants are two petition circulators (Fishman and Gagyi) and the
Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates of the Communist Party
(Hall and Tyner), for whose candidacy Fishman and Gagyi circulated
petitions.
2
In view of the District Court's denial of relief on equitable grounds
without deciding the merits of the constitutional attack, applicants properly sought review initially in the Court of Appeals. See McCarthy v.
Briscoe, ante, at 1317-1318, n. 2; MTM, Inc. v. Baxley, 420 U. S. 799, 804

(1975).

1326

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

such relief, this Court's Rule 51; McCarthy v. Briscoe, ante, p.
1317 (PowELL, J., in chambers); Williams v. Rhodes, 89 S. Ct.
1, 21 L. Ed. 2d 69 (1968) (STEWART, J., in chambers), it is
equally clear that "such power should be used sparingly and
only in the most critical and exigent circumstances." Williams v. Rhodes, 89 S. Ct., at 2, 21 L. Ed. 2d, at 70. Since this
case does not meet that standard, I must deny the requested
relief.
Applicants filed their complaint on July 2, 1976, attacking
as unconstitutionally burdensome certain provisions of the
Connecticut election law which apply to candidates seeking
to get on the ballot by means of nominating petitions. They
sought declaratory and injunctive relief against enforcement
of only a small segment of this procedure-the prescribed
method for filing the completed petitions. Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 9-453a et seq. (1975).
In order to demonstrate a "significant modicum of support,"
Jenness v. Fortson, 403 U. S. 431, 442 (1971), Connecticut
requires potential candidates to submit petitions signed by
electors equal to one percent of the number who voted for
the same office in the previous election. Conn. Gen. Stat.
§ 9-453d (1975). The petitions are available immediately
after the last statewide election and do not have to be filed
until nine weeks before the relevant election. § 9-453i.
Thus, the numerical and time requirements of the statute are,
as the District Court observed, "markedly more favorable" to
the potential candidate than are constitutionally required.
Civ. No. H-76-263 (Conn., July 2, 1976) ; see Storer v. Brown,
415 U. S. 724 (1974); American Party of Texas v. White, 415
U. S. 767 (1974); Jenness v. Fortson, supra; Note, Developments in the Law-Elections, 88 Harv. L. Rev. 1111, 11231130 (1975).
As a means of assuring the authenticity of the signatures
collected, the law requires that the circulator sign a statement
under penalty of perjury that (1) each signer of a petition

FISHMAN v. SCHAFFER
1325

Opinion in Chambers

signed the petition in his or her presence, and (2) he or
she either knew the signer, or the signer satisfactorily identified himself or herself to the circulator. This procedure must
be performed personally before the town clerk in each town.
where any petition signer resides. Applicants do not object
to the need for the circulator to make the required statement.
They claim, however, that the requirement that it be done
personally in front of numerous town clerks necessitates so
much travel that it is unconstitutionally burdensome.' While
acknowledging that the State has a valid and important interest in assuring the authenticity of the signatures and the
eligibility of the signers, applicants argue that this interest
can be served in ways less burdensome to the circulators.
The District Court, while sympathetic to this claim, did
not rule on the merits, since it found applicants' suit barred
by laches. It noted that applicants had tried and failed to
qualify for a position on the ballot in a previous election.
They were familiar with the statute and could have brought
suit earlier. The delay meant that the legislature could not
consider alternative filing requirements; instead, relief, if
warranted, would have to be the drastic remedy of putting
the candidates on the ballot, leaving the State with no protection of its interest in authenticity. Accordingly, the District
3

Specifically, they object to those portions of Conn. Gen. Stat.

§§ 9-453i and 453k (1975) which require:

1. "Each page of a nominating petition shall be submitted by the
person who circulated the same to the town clerk of the town in which
the signers reside ....

"

§ 9-453i (emphasis supplied).

2. "The town clerk shall not accept any page of a nominating petition
unless the circulator thereof signs in his presence the statement as to the
authenticity of the signatures thereon required by section 9-453j."
§ 9-453k (a) (emphasis supplied).
3. "The town c1erk shall certify on each such page that the circulator
thereof signed such statement in his presence and that either he knows the
circulator or that the circulator satisfactorily identified himself to the
town clerk." § 9-453k (b) (emphasis supplied).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

Court dismissed the action. The Court of Appeals, in an
expedited appeal, affirmed without opinion.
Turning to the merits of the application, as I noted previously, the relief sought is extraordinary. So far as I am
aware, a single Justice of this Court has ordered a State to
put a candidate's name on the ballot only twice. McCarthy v.
Briscoe, ante, p. 1317; Williams v. Rhodes, supra. This case

lacks all the significant features warranting relief in those
cases.
McCarthy presented "no novel issue of constitutional law."
Ante, at 1320. In MR. JusTIc Powmxrs view, the Texas
Legislature had adopted an "'incomprehensible policy,'"
amending its Election Code so as to preclude independent
candidates for the office of President from qualifying for the
general election ballot. Ante, at 1321. This deliberate refusal to provide access to independents was characterized by
both the District Court and Mt. JusTICE POWELL as demonstrating an "'intransigent and discriminatory position.'"
Ibid. Thus, there was no question that Texas had clearly
violated the constitutional requirements for ballot access.
In contrast, the constitutionality of the Connecticut statute
is at best a close question. I have no doubt about the
correct standard of review:
"[W]hether the qualifications for ballot position are
viewed as substantial burdens on the right to associate
or as discrimination . . . their validity depends upon

whether they are necessary to further compelling state
interests. .

.

.

[The limitations must be] reasonably

taken in pursuit of vital state objectives that cannot be
served equally well in significantly less burdensome
ways." American Party of Texas v. White, supra, at
780-781.
Nevertheless, there is little precedent dealing specifically with
filing procedures. Indeed, the one case touching on the subject, American Party of Texas v. White, suggests that a

FISHMAN v. SCHAFFER
1325

1329

Opinion in Chambers

requirement more burdensome than Connecticut's-that all
signatures be notarized at the time they are collected-is not
unconstitutional, at least absent more proof of impracticability or unusual burdensomeness than was before the Court.
415 U. S., at 787. Moreover, unlike the Texas law in McCarthy
which provided no means of access whatever for an independent candidate, and the Ohio law which made it "virtually
impossible" for a new political party to get on the ballot,
Williams v. Rhodes, 393 U. S. 23, 25 (1968), Connecticut has
one of the more liberal ballot-access statutes. Far from the
intransigence found in McCarthy, here the Connecticut Legislature apparently sought to deal rationally with abuses it
had encountered in the petitioning process. See Connecticut
General Assembly, 7 House Proceedings 2313-2314 (1957).
Furthermore, while there may be less burdensome ways to
authenticate signatures, the fact remains that a number of
groups have successfully used the Connecticut procedures.
Since 1968, four petitioning parties have qualified on a statewide basis under the same procedures now attacked. Affidavit of Henry Cohn, Elections Attorney and Director of
the Elections Division of the Secretary of State's Office,
Aug. 2, 1976. In addition, according to Mr. Cohn's later affidavit of September 17, 1976, it appeared that the United States
Labor Party would qualify Presidential candidates this year.
In view of this record showing that it is feasible to comply
with the requirement under attack, applicants' claims that the
statute is unduly onerous become less compelling. See American Party of Texas v. White, supra, at 779, 783-784. While
I do not intimate that applicants may not ultimately prevail
on the merits,4 I do conclude that unlike McCarthy, the ques41 imply no. view on the correctness of the dismissal of the action

insofar as it seeks declaratory relief. Moreover, I note that that claim
will not be rendered moot by the occurrence of the election or by our
refusal to grant affirmative relief now. American Party of Texas v.
White, 415 U. S., at 770 n. 1; Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S. 724, 737 n. 8

(1974).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

tion is too novel and uncertain to warrant a single Justice's
acting unilaterally to strip the State of its chosen method of
protecting its interests in the authenticity of petition
signatures.
In addition to these distinctions on the merits, there are
several additional factors militating against the extraordinary
relief sought. First, applicants delayed unnecessarily in
commencing this suit. The statute is not a new enactment
and applicants have, in fact, utilized it before. In 1972, the
Communist Party unsuccessfully circulated petitions for Presidential electors. And in 1974, Joelle Fishman, one of the
applicant-electors in this suit, successfully qualified as a petitioning candidate for Congress. Thus applicants were sufficiently familiar with the statute's requirements and could
have sued earlier. Moreover, respondents strongly oppose
the relief sought, claiming that an injunction at this time
would have a chaotic and disruptive effect upon the electoral
process. Defendants' Response in Opposition to Application 1.
The Presidential and overseas ballots have already been
printed; some have been distributed. The general absentee
ballots are currently being printed. Id., at 2. This stands in
marked contrast to the situation in Williams v. Rhodes, where
Ohio agreed that the American Independent Party could be
placed on the ballot without disrupting the election. 89 S.
CL, at 2, 21 L. Ed. 2d, at 70; Williams v. Rhodes, 393 U. S., at
35. It also differs from McCarthy, where it appears that
Texas had neither printed nor distributed any ballots when
the injunction was issued. Ante, at 1323-1324, n. 4.
For these reasons, I conclude that the application should
be denied.
It is so ordered.

