OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

McCARTHY ET AL. v. BRISCOE, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS,
ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-201.

Decided September 14, 1976

Application for a partial stay of a three-judge District Court's order
and judgment denying injunctive relief to applicants on the ground of
laches, is denied, since a direct appeal to this Court does not lie under
28 U. S. C. § 1253 and hence the Court is without jurisdiction to grant
the requested relief.

MR. JusucE PowELL, Circuit Justice.
This application, for a partial stay of an order and judgment of a three-judge District Court for the Western District
of Texas, reaches me during the summer recess of the Court.
Following a practice utilized by other Justices and by myself
on previous occasions, see, e. g., Graves v. Barnes, 405 U. S.
1201 (1972) (PowELL, J., in chambers), I have consulted informally with each of my Brethren who was available.* Although no other Justice has participated in the drafting of this
order, I am authorized to say that each of those consulted
would vote to deny the application for the reason stated below.
In denying injunctive relief to applicants, the three-judge
District Court based its action not upon resolution of the
merits of the constitutional claim presented (which it resolved
in favor of applicants), but upon the equitable doctrine of
laches. I conclude, therefore, that direct appeal to this Court
,does not lie under 28 U. S. C. § 1253, MTM, Inc. v. Baxley,
420 U. S. 799, 804 (1975), and that the Court is without
jurisdiction to grant the relief now requested. Accordingly,
the application for a stay is denied, but without prejudice to
the right of applicants to seek relief in the Court of Appeals.
*All Members of the Court, save two who were not available, have been

consulted.

McCARTHY v. BRISCOE

1317

Opinion in Chambers

McCARTHY

ET AL.

v. BRISCOE, GOVERNOR OF TEXAS,
ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR INJUNCTION

No. A-247.

Decided September 30, 1976

Application for an injunction ordering that applicant McCarthy's name
be placed on the 1976 general election ballot in Texas as an independent
candidate for President, is granted, where the District Court properly
determined that the Texas Election Code provision precluding candidates from gaining access to the ballot as independents was unconstitutional, but denied the requested relief on the mistaken assumption that
a lengthy signature-gathering process was the only means of demonstrating requisite community support.

Circuit Justice.
This is an application for injunctive relief,1 presented to
me as Circuit Justice. The applicants, former Senator
Eugene J. McCarthy and four Texas voters who support
Senator McCarthy's independent candidacy for President,
have asked that I order Senator McCarthy's name placed
on the 1976 general election ballot in Texas. They sought
relief without success from a three-judge District Court for
the Western District of Texas and, on appeal, from the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.2 Upon consideration
MR. JUSTICE; POWELL,

IAlthough the application is styled "Application for a partial stay of an
order and judgment of the United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit,"
the applicants actually seak affirmative relief. I have therefore treated
the papers as an application for an injunction pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
§ 1651 and Rules 50 and 51 of this Court.
2 The applicants filed an initial application in this Court for a stay of
the District Court order on September 8, 1976, before they had filed an
appeal to the Court of Appeals. In my capacity as Circuit Justice, I
denied that request on September 14 on the ground that this Court was
without jurisdiction to entertain a direct appeal from the District Court
under 28 U. S. C. § 1253. Ante, p. 1316. See MTM, Inc. v. Baxley, 420
U. S. 799, 804 (1975). I specified that the denial was without prejudice to
the applicants' right to seek relief in the Court of Appeals. The applicants

1318

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

of the record before me, I have concluded that the courts
below erred in failing to remedy a clear violation of the
applicants' constitutional rights. I have therefore granted
the requested relief.
Effective September 1, 1975, Texas amended its Election
Code so as to preclude candidates for the office of President
from qualifying for position on the general election ballot
as independents. Acts of 1975, c. 682, § 23, codified in Tex.
Elec. Code, Art. 13.50, subd. 1 (Supp. 1976). Before
that date independent candidates for all offices had been
able to gain access to the ballot by submitting a prescribed
number of voters' signatures by a deadline several months
in advance of the general election. Tex. Elec. Code,
Arts. 13.50, 13.51 (1967); see American Party of Texas v.
White, 415 U. S. 767, 788-791 (1974). Under the new law
that method of qualifying for the ballot was carried forward
for most offices, but not for the office of President.3 A
Presidential candidate must now be a member of a political
party as a precondition to securing a place on the ballot An
independent candidate can seek election as President only
by joining or organizing a political party, Tex. Elec. Code,
Arts. 13.02, 13.45 (Supp. 1976), or by mounting a campaign
to have his supporters "write in" his name on election day,
Arts. 6.05, 6.06 (Supp. 1976).
On July 30, 1976, the applicants filed this suit in the
District Court, claiming that Art. 13.50 of the Texas Election
filed a notice of appeal in the Court of Appeals on September 16; the
Court of Appeals denied their request for interlocutory relief on September 23; and the applicants renewed their application here the following
day.
3 Candidates for the offices of Vice Presidential and Presidential elector are
similarly excluded from qualifying as independents. Art. 13.50, subd.
1 (Supp. 1976). Although two of the applicants are candidates for the
office of Presidential elector, they have not specifically sought relief with
respect to their own candidacies. My order of September 27 (see n. 4,
infra) is sufficiently broad to encompass such relief, to the extent necessary to perfect Senator McCarthy's qualification for general election.

McCARTHY v. BRISCOE

1317

Opinion in Chambers

Code, as amended, violated the rights "secured to them under
Article II, Section 1, Clauses 2 and 4, and Article VI, Clause
2 of the United States Constitution and the First, Twelfth
and Fourteenth Amendments thereto." The applicants asked
the court to order Senator McCarthy's name placed on the
ballot or, alternatively, to devise reasonable criteria by which
Senator McCarthy might demonstrate support for his candidacy as a means of qualifying for ballot position. The
applicants submitted affidavits that tended to show that
Senator McCarthy was a serious Presidential aspirant with
substantial support in many States.
The defendants, the Governor and Secretary of State of
the State of Texas, denied that the new law was unconstitutional and claimed that Senator McCarthy was barred by
laches from obtaining the injunctive relief he requested. In
support of the laches claim, the defendants presented the
affidavit and later the live testimony of Mark W. White, Jr.,
the Secretary of State, to the effect that it would be impossible in the time remaining before the November election for
the State to verify that Senator McCarthy had substantial
support among Texas voters.
On September 3, 1976, the District Court held that the
Texas law, as amended, was constitutionally invalid for failure to provide independents a reasonable procedure for gaining ballot access, but declined to enter injunctive relief. The
court perceived its only choice to be one
"between standing by and permitting this incomprehensible policy to achieve its apparent objective or substantially burdening the entire general election at the behest
of one who has at least dawdled over his rights ..

Memorandum Opinion 2.
Believing it to be "too late for us to fashion meaningful
relief without substantially disrupting the entire Texas election scheme," the court concluded that injunctive relief was
not warranted. Ibid.

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

On September 23, 1976, the Court of Appeals denied the
applicants' request for emergency injunctive relief on the same
basis:
'We are . . . regretfully constrained to agree with
the District Court that because the complaint was so
lately filed there is insufficient time for the Court to
devise a petition requirement for ascertaining whether
McCarthy has substantial community support in Texas
without disrupting the entire election process in that
state. .. "
The following day, September 24, 1976, the applicants presented this application to me as Circuit Justice.
The new Texas law precluding independent candidates for
President from gaining access to the general election ballot
as independents raises no novel issue of constitutional law.
In Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S. 724 (1974), the Court flatly
rejected the notion that an independent could be forced
to seek ballot position by joining or organizing a political
party:
"It may be that the 1% registration requirement is a
valid condition to extending ballot position to a new
political party. Cf. American Party of Texas v. White,
[415 U. S. 767 (1974)]. But the political party and the
independent candidate approaches to political activity are
entirely different and neither is a satisfactory substitute for
the other. A new party organization contemplates a
statewide, ongoing organization with distinctive political
character. Its goal is typically to gain control of the
machinery of state government by electing its candidates to public office. From the standpoint of a potential supporter, affiliation with the new party would mean
giving up his ties with another party or sacrificing his
own independent status, even though his possible interest
in the new party centers around a particular candidate
for a particular office. For the candidate himself, it

McCARTHY v. BRISCOE
1317

1321

Opinion in Chambers

would mean undertaking the serious responsibilities of
qualified party status . . . such as the conduct of a
primary, holding party conventions, and the promulgation of party platforms. But more fundamentally, the
candidate, who is by definition an independent and
desires to remain one, must now consider himself a party
man, surrendering his independent status. Must he
necessarily choose the political party route if he wants
to appear on the ballot in the general election? We
think not." Id., at 745-746.
And in Lubin v. Panish, 415 U. S. 709 (1974), the Court
characterized as "dubious at best" the intimation that a
write-in provision was an acceptable means of ballot access:
"The realities of the electoral process . . . strongly
suggest that 'access' via write-in votes falls far short
of access in terms of having the name of the candidate
on the ballot. . . . That disparity would, itself, give
rise to constitutional questions . . . ." Id., at 719 n. 5.
In view of these pronouncements, the District Court was fully
justified in characterizing the new Texas law-enacted little
more than a year after Storer and Lubin were decided-as
demonstrating an "intransigent and discriminatory position"
and an "incomprehensible policy."
Despite this recognition of the clear constitutional infirmity of the Texas statute, the District Court refused to
grant the requested relief. The District Court, and the Court
of Appeals, apparently assumed that the only appropriate
remedy was to order implementation of the former statutory
procedure permitting independent Presidential candidates to
demonstrate substantial support by gathering a prescribed
number of voters' signatures-a procedure still available to
independent candidates for most other elective offices. Since
the signature-gathering procedure involved not only a filing
deadline which had long since expired but also a lengthy

1322

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

process of signature verification, both lower courts concluded
that there was too little time to impose a signature-gathering
requirement without undue disruption of the State's electoral process.
This Court will normally accept findings of a district
court, affirmed by a court of appeals, on factual considerations such as those underlying a determination of laches.
But acceptance of findings of fact does not in this case
require acceptance of the conclusion that violation of the
applicants' constitutional rights must go unremedied. In assuming that a signature-gathering process was the only available remedy, the courts below gave too little recognition to
the amendment passed by the Texas Legislature making that
very process unavailable to independent candidates for the
office of President. In taking that action, the Texas Legislature provided no means by which an independent Presidential
candidate might demonstrate substantial voter support. Given
this legislative default, the courts were free to determine
on the existing record whether it would be appropriate to
order Senator McCarthy's name added to the general election ballot as a remedy for what the District Court properly
characterized as an "incomprehensible policy" violative of
constitutional rights. This is a course that has been followed
before both in this Court, see Williams v. Rhodes, 89 S.Ct. 1,
21 L. Ed. 2d 69 (1968) (STEWART, J., in chambers), and, more
recently, in three District Court decisions involving Senator
McCarthy, McCarthy v. Nael, No. 76-0402 (RI Sept. 24,
1976); McCarthy v. Tribbitt, No. 76-300 (Del. Sept. 16,
1976); McCarthy v. Askew, No. 76-1460-Civ-NCR (Fla.
Sept. 15, 1976).
In determining whether to order a candidate's name added
to the ballot as a remedy for a State's denial of access, a
court should be sensitive to the State's legitimate interest
in preventing "laundry list" ballots that "discourage voter
participation and confuse and frustrate those who do partici-

McCARTHY v. BRISCOE
1317

1323

Opinion in Chambers

pate." Lubin v. Panish, supra, at 715. But where a State
forecloses independent candidacy in Presidential elections
by affording no means for a candidate to demonstrate community support, as Texas has done here, a court may
properly look to available evidence or to matters subject
to judicial notice to determine whether there is reason to
assume the requisite community support. See McCarthy v.
Askew, supra.
It is not seriously contested that Senator McCarthy is
a nationally known figure; that he served two terms in the
United States Senate and five in the United States House
of Representatives; that he was an active candidate for the
Democratic nomination for President in 1968, winning a substantial percentage of the votes cast in the primary elections;
and that he has succeeded this year in qualifying for position
on the general election ballot in many States. The defendants have made no showing that support for Senator McCarthy is less substantial in Texas than elsewhere.
For the reasons stated, I have ordered that the application
be granted and that the Secretary of State place the name
of Eugene J. McCarthy on the November 1976 general
election ballot in Texas as an independent candidate for
the office of President of the United States.'
I have con4The order granting the application was issued on September 27,
1976. The Texas Election Code does not appear to prescribe a, deadline for the printing of ballots for the general election. The earliest
date when printed ballots are required for any purpose is October 13,
20 days before the election, when the statutory period for absentee
voting by mail begins. Art. 5.05, subd. 4 (a) (Supp. 1976). Ballots

are to be mailed to persons outside the United States "as soon as
possible after the ballots become available, but not earlier than [October 3]," Art. 5.05, subd. 4e, and to others intending to vote by mail on
October 13 "or as soon thereafter as possible," Art. 5.05, subd. 4 (b).

Political parties are not required to certify their nominees to the Secretary
of State until September 28, Art. 11.04 (1967), and the Secretary of State

is not required to certify the names of those who have qualified for ballot

1324

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion in Chambers

429 U. S.

sulted informally with each of my Brethren and, although
no other Justice has participated in the drafting of this
opinion, I am authorized to say that a majority of the Court
would grant the application.'

position to local election officials until October 3, Art. 1.03, subd. 2
(Supp. 1976). Thus there appears to be ample time to add Senator
McCarthy's name.
5 MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, IR. JUSTICE BLACKmuN, and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST have asked to be recorded as holding
a different view.

