OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Per Curiam

UNITED STATES ET AL. V. JOSE, TRUSTEE OF JOSE
BUSINESS TRUST ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-2082.

Decided December 2, 1996

In a proceeding to enforce two Internal Revenue Service (IRS) summonses issued to respondent, petitioners, the United States and an IRS
agent, represented that the documents sought were for a civil investigation. The Magistrate found the summonses valid and enforceable for
the purpose stated. As the Magistrate recommended, the District
Court ordered enforcement of the summonses, but required the IRS to
give respondent five days' notice before transferring summoned information from its Examination Division to any other IRS office. Challenging the District Court's authority to impose such a restriction, the
IRS appealed. The Ninth Circuit dismissed the appeal as not ripe because the record did not indicate that the Examination Division had
attempted to disclose the documents to any other IRS division; therefore the five-day notice requirement had not been triggered.
Held: The District Court issued a final, appealable order. Its decision
dispositively granted in part and denied in part the remedy requested.
The IRS prevailed to the extent that the District Court enforced the
summonses, but did not prevail to the extent that the District Court
imposed the five-day notice condition. With that disposition, the District Court completed its adjudication. This Court has expressly held
that IRS summons enforcement orders are subject to appellate review.
Church of Scientology of Cal. v. United States,506 U. S. 9, 15. Finality,
not ripeness, is the doctrine governing appeals from district court to
circuit court. The Ninth Circuit cited, and this Court has found, no
authority supporting the Ninth Circuit's cryptic declaration that the
conditional enforcement order was not ripe for appeal. The Court expresses no opinion on the merits of the underlying dispute, but notes
that the matter implicates an intercircuit conflict.
Certiorari granted; 71 F. 3d 1484, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioners, the United States of America and Leslie M.
Nishimura, Revenue Agent of the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS or Service), commenced a proceeding to enforce two

Cite as: 519 U. S. 54 (1996)
Per Curiam

IRS summonses issued to Laddie F. Jose, as trustee for the
Jose Business Trust and Jose Family Trust. The Service
represented to the Magistrate that the documents sought
"are for the purpose of a civil investigation." App. to Pet.
for Cert. 16a. The Magistrate found the summonses valid
and enforceable for the purpose stated. He did not address
the question whether the summons enforcement requirements "would be satisfied in the event petitioners decide to
pursue a criminal tax investigation." Ibid. That question
was not before him in view of the sole purpose-civil investigation-specified by the IRS. Ibid.
The Magistrate recommended that the District Court (1)
enforce petitioners' summonses, and (2) require-the IRS to
give respondent five days' notice prior to any circulation or
transfer of the summoned documents to any division of the
IRS other than the Examination Division. Id., at 20a-21a.
Before the District Court, neither party objected to the
finding that the alleged civil investigation was a legitimate
purpose and that the summonses are valid and should be
enforced. Id., at 16a. The single issue in controversy was
"whether [the court] may restrict enforcement of petitioners'
summonses by requiring the IRS to notify respondent five
days in advance before circulating, transferring, or copying
the summon[ed] documents to any other division of the IRS,
including its [C]riminal Investigation Division." Id., at 15a.
The District Court determined that the restriction was lawful and proper and entered a final order to that effect. Id.,
at 19a.
The Service appealed, asserting that the District Court
lacked authority to impose the restriction. The Ninth Circuit correctly recognized that it had jurisdiction "pursuant
to 28 U. S. C. ยง 1291," which authorizes appeals from "final
decisions." It nonetheless dismissed the appeal "as not
ripe." 71 F. 3d 1484, 1485 (1995). The majority stated:
"The record indicates that the IRS represented to the
district court that the documents requested of Jose were

UNITED STATES v. JOSE

Per Curiam

for civil tax examination purposes only, not for a criminal investigation. The record does not indicate that the
Examination Division has attempted to disclose the documents to any other IRS division, thereby triggering
the five-day notice requirement. Thus, any detrimental
impact the district court's order may have on the IRS's
investigation is, at this time, purely speculative. Accordingly, the IRS's appeal is not ripe for review."
Ibid.
The dissenting judge concluded that the case was "ready and
ripe" for decision, id., at 1486, and stated at some length her
reasons for believing that the restriction approved by the
District Court was unwarranted. The United States and
Revenue Agent Nishimura petitioned for certiorari. We
called for a response from trustee Jose, but he filed no brief
in opposition. We now reverse.
We express no opinion on the merits of the underlying
dispute. The matter, indeed, is one that implicates an intercircuit conflict.* We think it clear, however, that the District Court's final order is indeed final. It is a decision dispositively granting in part and denying in part the remedy
requested. The IRS prevailed to the extent that the District Court enforced the summonses. The Service did not
*Compare United States v. Barrett, 837 F. 2d 1341, 1349-1351 (CA5
1988) (en banc) (percuriam) (District Court lacks authority to place conditions on enforcement of IRS summons), cert. denied, 492 U. S.926 (1989),
with United States v. Zolin, 809 F. 2d 1411, 1417 (CA9 1987) (upholding
conditions on enforcement of IRS summons), aff'd by an equally divided
Court, 491 U. S.554, 561 (1989), and United States v. Author Servs., Inc.,
804 F. 2d 1520, 1525-1526 (CA9 1986) (District Court has "considerable"
discretion to set terms of enforcement order); see also Church of Scientology of Cal. v. United States, 506 U. S.9, 14-15, n. 7 (1992) (recognizing

split). The existing intercircuit conflict concerns judicial limitations on
disclosure by the agency seeking summons enforcement to other governmental agencies. The instant case involves the related but distinct question of the District Court's authority to restrict sharing of information
within an agency.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 54 (1996)
Per Curiam

prevail to the extent that the District Court imposed a condition-an unqualified requirement that the IRS provide five
days' notice to the trustee before transferring summoned information from its Examination Division to any other IRS
office. With that disposition, the District Court completed
its adjudication. "W]e have expressly held that IRS summons enforcement orders are subject to appellate review."
Church of Scientology of Cal. v. United States, 506 U. S. 9,
15 (1992) (citing Reisman v. Caplin, 375 U. S. 440, 449
(1964)). We adhere to that view, and note that appellate jurisdiction over final decisions does not turn on which side
prevailed in the District Court.
Finality, not ripeness, is the doctrine governing appeals
from district court to court of appeals. In this case, to gain
access to appeal from the District Court's final decision to
the extent that it disfavored the Service, the IRS is not obligated, first, to defy the District Court's order. Nor is the
IRS required to provide notice of its intention to transfer
documents internally, for this is the very condition the IRS
seeks to attack on appeal.
The Court of Appeals cited no authority supporting its
cryptic declaration that the conditional enforcement order
was not ripe for appeal. We have found none. Indeed,
prior to this case, the Ninth Circuit itself had twice upheld
similar conditional enforcement orders. See United States
v. Zolin, 809 F. 2d 1411, 1417 (CA9 1987); United States v.
Author Servs., Inc., 804 F. 2d 1520, 1525-1526 (CA9 1986).
In neither case did the Court of Appeals avoid the merits
by interjecting the doctrine of ripeness. Aggrieved by the
conditional enforcement upheld in Zolin, the United States
petitioned this Court for a writ of certiorari. We granted
the writ, 488 U. S. 907 (1988), and affirmed the Ninth Circuit's ruling by an equally divided Court, 491 U. S. 554, 561
(1989). We hardly would have done so had we considered
the matter unfit for review.

58

UNITED STATES v. JOSE

Per Curiam

For the reasons stated, we grant the petition for a writ of
certiorari, reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgment dismissing
the appeal, and remand the case for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

