OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Syllabus

REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ET AL. v. DOE
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-1694. Argued December 2, 1996-Decided February 19, 1997
Respondent Doe, a New York citizen, sued the Regents of the University
of California and others, alleging, inter alia, that the University had
agreed to employ him at a laboratory it operates pursuant to a contract
with the federal Department of Energy, and that it had wrongfully
breached its agreement with him upon determining that he could not
obtain a required security clearance. Relying on Circuit precedent
holding that the University is "an arm of the state," the District Court
concluded that the Eleventh Amendment barred Doe from maintaining
his breach-of-contract action in federal court. In reversing, the Ninth
Circuit held that liability for money judgments is the single most important factor in determining whether an entity is an arm of the State, and
gave decisive weight to the terms of the University's agreement with
the Energy Department, under which the Department, not the State, is
liable for any judgment rendered against the University in its performance of the contract.
Held. The fact that the Federal Government has agreed to indemnify a
state instrumentality against litigation costs, including adverse judgments, does not divest the state agency of Eleventh Amendment immunity. Nothing in this Court's opinions supports the notion that the
presence or absence of a third party's undertaking to indemnify a state
agency should determine whether it is the kind of entity that should be
treated as an arm of the State. Just as with the arm-of-the-state inquiry, see, e. g., Hess v. Port Authority Trans-Hudson Corporation,513
U. S. 30, 51-52, it is the entity's potential legal liability for judgments,
rather than its ability or inability to require a third party to reimburse
it, or to discharge the liability in the first instance, that is relevant in
determining the underlying Eleventh Amendment question. Accordingly, the Court rejects Doe's principal contention-that the Amendment does not apply to this litigation because any damages award would
be paid by the Energy Department, and therefore have no impact upon
California's treasury. Because the question on which certiorari was
granted does not encompass Doe's alternative aigument attacking the
Ninth Circuit cases holding the University to be an arm of the State,
the Court declines to address that argument. Pp. 429-432.
65 F. 3d 771, reversed.

REGENTS OF UNIV. OF CAL. v. DOE
Opinion of the Court
STEVENS,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Charles A. Miller argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Robert A. Long, Jr., John F. Duffy,
James E. Holst, and Patrick J. O'Hern.
Lisa Schiavo Blatt argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae urging reversal. With her on the brief
were Acting Solicitor General Dellinger, Assistant Attorney General Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General Bender, and
Mark B. Stern.
Richard Gayer,by appointment of the Court, 519 U. S. 804,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief was
Madeleine Tress.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The narrow question presented by this case is whether the
fact that the Federal Government has agreed to indemnify a
state instrumentality against the costs of litigation, including
adverse judgments, divests the state agency of Eleventh
Amendment immunity. We hold that it does not.
JUSTICE STEVENS

I
Respondent, a citizen of New York, brought suit against
the Regents of the University of California and several individual defendants in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California. Although he alleged other
claims, we are concerned only with respondent's breach-ofcontract claim against the University. Doe contends that
the University agreed to employ him as a mathematical
physicist at the Lawrence Livermore Natonal Laboratory,
which the University operates pursuant to a contract with
the Federal Government. According to his complaint, the
*RichardRuda and James I. Crowley filed a brief for the National Conference of State Legislatures et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.
James K T Hunter, pro se, filed a brief as amicus curiae urging
affirmance.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 425 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

University wrongfully refused to perform its agreement
with Doe because it determined that he could not obtain the
required security clearance from the Department of Energy
(Department). Relying on Ninth Circuit cases holding that
the University is "an arm of the state,"' the District Court
concluded that the Eleventh Amendment barred respondent
from maintaining his breach-of-contract action in federal
court.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. Assuming that in some, but not all, of its functions the University is entitled to Eleventh Amendment immunity,2 the court
addressed the narrow question whether it is an arm of the
State when "acting in a managerial capacity" for the Livermore Laboratory. Doe v. Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory,65 F. 3d 771, 774 (1995). Although the majority
applied "a five-factor analysis," I it emphasized that "liability
ISee App. to Pet. for Cert. A-22, A-24, and A-28 (citing Thompson v.
City of Los Angeles, 885 F. 2d 1439, 1442-1443 (1989), and Jackson v.
Hayakawa,
682 F. 2d 1344, 1350 (1982)).
2
The court relied on one case holding that Congress had abrogated the
University's immunity from suit for patent infringement, Genentech, Inc.
v. Eli Lilly & Co., 998 F. 2d 931, 940-941 (CA Fed. 1993), cert. denied, 510
U. S. 1140 (1994), and another holding that the University had waived its
immunity in some cases, In re Holoholo, 512 F. Supp. 889, 901-902 (Haw.
1981), for its conclusion that the "University is an enormous entity which
functions in various capacities and which is not entitled to Eleventh
Amendment immunity for all of its functions." Doe v. Lawrence Livermore NationalLaboratory,65 F. 3d 771, 775 (1995). We have no occasion
to consider questions of waiver or abrogation of immunity in this case.
Nor is it necessary to decide whether there may be some state instrumentalities that qualify as "arms of the State" for some purposes but not
others.
IThe five factors considered by the court in evaluating whether the University is an arm of the State were: "[1] whether a money judgment would
be satisfied out of state finds, [2] whether the entity performs central
governmental functions, [3] whether the entity may sue or be sued, [4]
whether the entity has power to take property in its own name or only
the name of the state, and [5] the corporate status of the entity." Id.,
at 774.

REGENTS OF UNIV. OF CAL. v. DOE
Opinion of the Court

for money judgment is the single most important factor in
determining whether an entity is an arm of the state." Ibid.
The majority opinion gave decisive weight to the terms of
the University's agreement with the Department, which
made it "clear that the Department, and not the State of
California, is liable for any judgment rendered against the
University in its performance of the Contract." Ibid.
The dissenting judge did not take issue with the majority's
emphasis on the importance of the defendant's liability for a
money judgment, but he reasoned that the proper analysis
should focus on the primary legal liability rather than the
ultimate economic impact of the judgment. Noting that it
was undisputed that a judgment against the University "is a
legal obligation of the State of California," id., at 777, he
discounted the significance of the indemnitor's secondary, or
indirect, liability. For his conclusion, he relied on Ninth Circuit precedent suggesting that a State may not confer Eleventh Amendment immunity on an entity or individual who
would otherwise not enjoy that immunity simply by volunteering to satisfy judgments against the entity, Durning v.
Citibank, N.A., 950 F. 2d 1419, 1425, n. 3 (1991), or by passing a statute indemnifying individual officers from liability,
Blaylock v. Schwinden, 862 F. 2d 1352, 1353-1354 (1988).
"The question is not who pays in the end; it is who is legally
obligated to pay the judgment that is being sought." 65
F. 3d, at 777-778.
Because other Courts of Appeals agree with the dissent's
focus on legal rather than financial liability,4 we granted certiorari to resolve the conflict. 518 U. S. 1004 (1996).
4See Cronen v. Texas Dept. of Human Services, 977 F. 2d 934, 938 (CA5
1992) ("[T]he source of the damages is irrelevant when the suit is against

the state itself or a state agency"); Cannon v. University of Health
Sciences/The Chicago Medical School, 710 F. 2d 351, 357 (CA7 1983)
("No authority supports Cannon's argument that [the Eleventh Amendment] analysis is altered by the possibility that a damage award would
be met through insurance proceeds or from federal funds").

Cite as: 519 U. S. 425 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

II
The Eleventh Amendment provides:
"The Judicial power of the United States shall not be
construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States
by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects
of any Foreign State."
It has long been settled that the reference to actions
"against one of the United States" encompasses not only actions in which a State is actually named as the defendant,
but also certain actions against state agents and state instrumentalities. Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 287
(1885); In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 487 (1887); Smith v. Reeves,
178 U. S. 436, 438-439 (1900); Ford Motor Co. v. Department
of Treasury of Ind., 323 U. S. 459 (1945). Thus, "when the
action is in essence one for the recovery of money from the
state, the state is the real, substantial party in interest and
is entitled to invoke its sovereign immunity from suit even
though individual officials are nominal defendants." Id., at
464.
When deciding whether a state instrumentality may invoke the State's immunity, our cases have inquired into the
relationship between the State and the entity in question.
In making this inquiry, we have sometimes examined "the
essential nature and effect of the proceeding," ibid.; see also
Kennecott Copper Corp. v. State Tax Comm'n, 327 U. S. 573,
576 (1946), and sometimes focused on the "nature of the entity created by state law" 5 to determine whether it should
5Ultimately, of course, the question whether a particular state agency
has the same kind of independent status as a county or is instead an arm
of the State, and therefore "one of the United States" within the meaning
of the Eleventh Amendment, is a question of federal law. But that federal
question can be answered only after considering the provisions of state
law that define the agency's character.

REGENTS OF UNIV. OF CAL. v. DOE
Opinion of the Court

"be treated as an arm of the State," Mt. Healthy City Bd. of
Ed. v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274, 280 (1977).6
Of course, the question whether a money judgment against
a state instrumentality or official would be enforceable
against the State is of considerable importance to any evaluation of the relationship between the State and the entity
or individual being sued. Hess v. Port Authority TransHudson Corporation,513 U. S.30, 45-51 (1994); Edelman v.
Jordan, 415 U. S.651, 663 (1974); Ford Motor, 323 U. S., at
464. In Hess, we evaluated the relationship between an
entity created by a bistate compact and the States that had
joined to create that entity in order to determine whether
that entity could properly be denominated as an "arm" of
either of its founding States for the purposes of the Eleventh
Amendment. In addition to considering the position of the
bistate entity as a unique creature within the federal system,
513 U. S., at 39-42, and the nature of the claims at issue in
the underlying proceeding, id., at 42, we focused particular attention on the fact that "both legally and practically"
neither of the relevant States would have been obligated to
pay a judgment obtained against the bistate entity, id., at
51-52.
Respondent seeks to detach the importance of a State's
legal liability for judgments against a state agency from its
6

We relied in Mt. Healthy on our earlier decision that a California

county is not an "arm of the State" and therefore may be considered a
"citizen" of California for the purpose of determining the federal court's
diversity jurisdiction over a state-law claim. Moor v. County of Alameda, 411 U. S.693, 717-721 (1973). In Moor we made a "detailed examination of the relevant provisions of California law" defining counties, not-

ing that the county "is liable for all judgments against it and is authorized
to levy taxes to pay such judgments," that it is "empowered to issue general obligation bonds," and that it has other characteristics that provide
"persuasive indicia of the independent status occupied by California counties relative to the State of California." Id., at 719-721.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 425 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

moorings as an indicator of the relationship between the
State and its creation and to convert the inquiry into a formalistic question of ultimate financial liability. But none of
the reasoning in our opinions lends support to the notion that
the presence or absence of a third party's undertaking to
indemnify the agency should determine whether it is the
kind of entity that should be treated as an arm of the State.
Just as with the arm-of-the-state inquiry, we agree with
the dissenting judge in the Court of Appeals that with respect to the underlying Eleventh Amendment question, it is
the entity's potential legal liability, rather than its ability or
inability to require a third party to reimburse it, or to discharge the liability, in the first instance, that is relevant.
Surely, if the sovereign State of California should buy insurance to protect itself against potential tort liability to pedestrians stumbling on the steps of the State Capitol, it would
not cease to be "one of the United States."
Accordingly, we reject respondent's principal contentionthat the Eleventh Amendment does not apply to this litigation because any award of damages would be paid by the
Department of Energy, and therefore have no impact upon
the treasury of the State of California. The Eleventh
Amendment protects the State from the risk of adverse
judgments even though the State may be indemnified by a
third party.
III
As an alternative ground for affirmance, respondent invites us to reexamine the validity of the Ninth Circuit cases
holding that the University is an arm of the State. He argues that we should look beyond the potential impact of an
adverse judgment on the state treasury, and examine the
extent to which the elected state government exercises
"real, immediate control and oversight" over the University,
see id., at 62 (O'CONNOR, J., dissenting), as well as the char-

432

REGENTS OF UNIV. OF CAL. v. DOE
Opinion of the Court

acter of the function that gave rise to the litigation. Because the question we granted certiorari to address does not
encompass this argument, we decline to address it.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.

