OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Per Curiam

GRIMMETT, TRUSTEE FOR THE BANKRUPTCY ESTATE
OF SIRAGUSA, ET AL. v. BROWN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPPEALS
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-1723.

Argued January 6, 1997-Decided January 14, 1997

Certiorari dismissed.

Reported below: 75 F. 3d 506.

Richard A. Sauber argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Michael L. Waldman, David B.,
Smith, Erven T Nelson, and Randall M. Rumph.
Philip A. Lacovara argued the cause for respondents.
On the brief for respondents Beckley et al. were Niels L.
Pearson, Rex A. Jemison, and Daniel F. Polsenberg. On
the brief for respondents Brown et al. were Peter M. Angulo
and Don F. Shreve, Jr.*
PER CURIAM.

The writ of certiorari in this case is dismissed as improvidently granted.

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Executive
Committee, MDL No. 1069, et al. by Richard B. McNamara, Gregory A
Holmes, Stephanie A. Bray, Michael M. Baylson, Martin J Oberman,
Alice W. Ballard, Charles Barnhill, Jr., Judson Miner, and Edward R.
Garvey; and for the National Association of Securities and Commercial
Law Attorneys by Kevin P. Roddy, G. Robert Blakey, and Jonathan W.
Cuneo.
Michael A Cardozo and Steven C. Krane filed a brief for the National
Hockey League as amicus curiaeurging affirmance.
Andrew L. Frey, Philip A Lacovara, and Evan M. Tager filed a brief
for the American Honda Motor Co. as amicus curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Syllabus

BABBITT, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
v. YOUPEE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-1595. Argued December 2, 1996-Decided January 21, 1997
In the late Nineteenth Century, Congress initiated an Indian land program
that authorized the allotment of communal Indian property to individual
tribal members. This allotment program resulted in the extreme fractionation of Indian lands as allottees passed their undivided interests on
to multiple heirs through descent or devise. In 1983, Congress adopted
the Indian Land Consolidation Act in part to reduce fractionated ownership of allotted lands. Section 207 of the Act-the "escheat" provision-prohibited the descent or devise of fractional interests that constituted 2 percent or less of the total acreage in an allotted tract and
earned less than $100 in the preceding year. Instead of passing to
heirs, the interests described in §207 would escheat to the tribe, thereby
consolidating the ownership of Indian lands. Section 207 made no provision for the payment of compensation to those who held such fractional
interests. In Hodel v. Irving, 481 U. S. 704, this Court invalidated the
original version of §207 on the ground that it effected a taking of private
property without just compensation, in violation of the Fifth Amendment. Id., at 716-718. Considering, first, the economic impact of §207,
the Court observed that the provision's income-generation test might
fail to capture the actual economic value of the land. Id., at 714.
Weighing most heavily against the constitutionality of §207, however,
was the "extraordinary" character of the Government regulation, id., at
716, which amounted to the virtual abrogation of the rights of descent
and devise, id., at 716-717. While Irving was pending in the Court
of Appeals, Congress amended § 207. Amended § 207 differs from the
original provision in three relevant respects: It looks back five years
instead of one to determine the income produced from a small interest,
and creates a rebuttable presumption that this income stream will continue; it permits devise of otherwise escheatable interests to persons
who already own an interest in the same parcel; and it authorizes tribes
to develop their own codes governing the disposition of fractional interests. The will of William Youpee, an enrolled member of the Sioux and
Assiniboine Tribes, devised to respondents, all of them enrolled tribal
members, his several undivided interests in allotted lands on reservations in Montana and North Dakota. Each interest was devised to a

