OCTOBER TERM, 1996
Syllabus

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-1263.

Argued November 12, 1996-Decided December 10, 1996

Respondent Lewis, a Kentucky resident, commenced this civil action in
Kentucky state court after sustaining personal injuries while operating
a bulldozer. Asserting state-law claims, Lewis named as defendants
both the manufacturer of the bulldozer-petitioner Caterpillar Inc., a
Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in Illinois-and
the company that serviced the bulldozer-Whayne Supply Company, a
Kentucky corporation with its principal place of business in Kentucky.
Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, a Massachusetts corporation with its
principal place of business in that State, intervened as a plaintiff, asserting subrogation claims against both Caterpillar and Whayne Supply for
workers' compensation benefits Liberty Mutual had paid to Lewis on
behalf of his employer. Shortly after learning of a settlement agreement between Lewis and Whayne Supply, Caterpillar filed a notice of
removal in Federal District Court, grounding federal jurisdiction on diversity of citizenship, see 28 U. S. C. § 1332. The notice explained that
the case was nonremovable at the lawsuit's start: Complete diversity
was absent then because plaintiff Lewis and defendant Whayne Supply
shared Kentucky citizenship. Caterpillar assumed that the settlement
agreement between these two parties would result in Whayne Supply's
dismissal from the lawsuit, yielding complete diversity and rendering
the case removable. Lewis promptly moved to remand the case to state
court, asserting that diversity was defeated by Whayne Supply's continuing presence as a defendant due to Liberty Mutual's subrogation claim
against it. The District Court denied the motion, erroneously concluding that diversity had become complete. Before trial, however, Liberty
Mutual's subrogation claim against Whayne Supply was settled, and that
defendant was dismissed as a party. Complete diversity thereafter
existed. The case proceeded to trial, jury verdict, and judgment for
Caterpillar. The Sixth Circuit vacated the judgment, concluding that,
absent complete diversity at the time of removal, the District Court
lacked subject-matter jurisdiction.
Hel&d A district court's error in failing to remand a case improperly removed is not fatal to the ensuing adjudication if federal jurisdictional
requirements are met at the time judgment is entered. Pp. 67-78.

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS
Syllabus

(a) The general-diversity statute, § 1332(a), authorizes federal court
jurisdiction over eases in which the citizenship of each plaintiff is diverse from the citizenship of each defendant. See Carden v. Arkoma
Associates, 494 U. S. 185, 187. When a plaintiff files a state-court civil
action over which the federal district courts would have original jurisdiction based on diversity of citizenship, the defendant or defendants
may remove the action to federal court, § 1441(a), provided that no
defendant "is a citizen of the State in which such action is brought,"
§ 1441(b). In a case not originally removable from state court, a defendant who receives a pleading or other paper indicating the postcommencement satisfaction of federal jurisdictional requirements-e. g.,
by reason of a nondiverse party's dismissal-may remove the case to
federal court within 30 days. § 1446(b). No case, however, may be removed based on diversity "more than 1 year after commencement of the
action." Ibid. Once a defendant has filed a notice of removal in the
federal court, a plaintiff objecting to removal "on the basis of any defect
in removal procedure" may, within 30 days, file a motion to remand the
case to state court. § 1447(c). This 30-day limit does not apply, however, to jurisdictional defects: "If at any time before final judgment it
appears that the district court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the case
shall be remanded." Ibid. Pp. 67-69.
(b) American Fire & Casualty Co. v. Finn, 341 U. S. 6, and Grubbs
v. General Elec. Credit Corp., 405 U. S. 699, are key cases in point and
tend in Caterpillar's favor. Each suggests that the existence of
subject-matter jurisdiction at time of judgment may shield a judgment
against later jurisdictional attack despite an improper removal. Finn,
341 U. S., at 16; Grubbs, 405 U. S., at 700. However, neither decision
resolves dispositively a controversy of the kind here at issue, for neither
involved a plaintiff who moved promptly, but unsuccessfully, to remand
a case improperly removed from state court to federal court, and
then challenged on appeal a judgment entered by the federal court.
Pp. 70-73.
(c) Beyond question, as Lewis acknowledges, diversity became complete in this case when Whayne Supply was formally dismissed as a
party. Nevertheless, Caterpillar moves too quickly in claiming that
elimination of the jurisdictionaldefect before trial also cured a statutory flaw-Caterpillar's failure to meet the § 1441(a) requirement that
the case be fit for federal adjudication at the time the removal petition
was filed. By timely moving for remand, Lewis did all that was necessary to preserve his objection to removal. An order denying a motion
to remand, "standing alone," is "obviously... not final and [immediately]
appealable" as of right, Chicago,R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Stude, 346 U. S. 574,

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Syllabus
578, and a ilaintiff is not required to take an interlocutory appeal pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §1292(b) in order to avoid waiving whatever ultimate
appeal right he may have. Having preserved his objection, Lewis
urges that ultimate satisfaction of the subject-matter jurisdiction requirement ought not swallow up antecedent statutory violations.
Lewis' arguments in support of this position are hardly meritless, but
they run up against an overriding consideration. Once a diversity case
has been tried in federal court, with rules of decision supplied by state
law under the regime of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, considerations of finality, efficiency, and economy become overwhelming. Cf,
e. g., Newman-Green, Inc. v. Alfonzo-Larrain,490 U. S. 826, 836. This
view is in harmony with a main theme of the removal scheme devised
by Congress, which calls for expeditious superintendence by district
courts. In this case, no jurisdictional defect lingered through judgment
in the District Court. To wipe out the adjudication postjudgment, and
return to state court a case now satisfying all federal jurisdictional requirements, would impose an exorbitant cost on our dual court system,
a cost incompatible with the fair and unprotracted administration of
justice. Pp. 73-77.
(d) Lewis' prediction that rejection of his petition will provide statecourt defendants with an enormous incentive to attempt unlawful removals rests on an assumption this Court does not indulge-that federal
district courts generally will not comprehend, or will balk at applying,
the removal rules Congress has prescribed. The prediction furthermore assumes defendants' readiness to gamble that any jurisdictional
defect, for example, the absence of complete diversity, will first escape
detection, then disappear prior to judgment. This Court is satisfied
that the well-advised defendant will foresee the likely outcome of an
unwarranted removal-a swift and nonreviewable remand order, see
§§ 1447(c), (d), attended by the displeasure of a district court whose
authority has been improperly invoked. Pp. 77-78.
Reversed and remanded.
GiNSBURG, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Kenneth S. Gelter argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs'were Michael R. Feagley, John E. Muench,
Charles Rothfeld, Leslie W Morris II, James B. Buda, and
William F. Maready.

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS
Opinion of the Court

Leonard J Stayton argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Paul Alan Levy and Alan B.
Morrison.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case, commenced in a state court, involves personal
injury claims arising under state law. The case was removed to a federal court at a time when, the Court of Appeals concluded, complete diversity of citizenship did not
exist among the parties. Promptly after the removal, the
plaintiff moved to remand the case to the state court, but
the District Court denied that motion. Before trial of the
case, however, all claims involving the nondiverse defendant
were settled, and that defendant was dismissed as a. party
to the action. Complete diversity thereafter existed. The
case proceeded to trial, jury verdict, and judgment for the
removing defendant. The Court of Appeals vacated the
judgment, concluding that, absent complete diversity at the
time of removal, the District Court lacked subject-matter
jurisdiction.
The question presented is whether the absence of complete
diversity at the time of removal is fatal to federal-court adjudication. We hold that a district court's error in failing to
remand a case improperly removed is not fatal to the ensuing
adjudication if federal jurisdictional requirements are met at
the time judgment is entered.
JUSTICE GINSBURG

I
Respondent James David Lewis, a resident of Kentucky,
filed this lawsuit in Kentucky state court on June 22, 1989,
after sustaining injuries while operating a bulldozer. Asserting state-law claims based on defective manufacture,
negligent maintenance, failure to warn, and breach of war*PatrickW. Lee filed a brief for the Product Liability Advisory Council,
Inc., as amicus curiaeurging reversal.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

ranty, Lewis named as defendants both the manufacturer of
the bulldozer-petitioner Caterpillar Inc., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in Illinois-and
the company that serviced the bulldozer-Whayne Supply
Company, a Kentucky corporation with its principal place of
business in Kentucky.
Several months later, Liberty Mutual Insurance Group,
the insurance carrier for Lewis' employer, intervened in the
lawsuit as a plaintiff. A Massachusetts corporation with
its principal place of business in that State, Liberty Mutual
asserted subrogation claims against both Caterpillar and
Whayne Supply for workers' compensation benefits Liberty
Mutual had paid to Lewis on behalf of his employer.
Lewis entered into a settlement agreement with defendant
Whayne Supply less than a year after filing his complaint.
Shortly after learning of this agreement, Caterpillar filed a
notice of removal, on June 21, 1990, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. Grounding federal jurisdiction on diversity of citizenship, see 28
U. S. C. § 1332, Caterpillar satisfied with only a day to spare
the statutory requirement that a diversity-based removal
take place within one year of a lawsuit's commencement, see
28 U. S. C. § 1446(b). Caterpillar's notice of removal explained that the case was nonremovable at the lawsuit's
start: Complete diversity was absent then because plaintiff
Lewis and defendant Whayne Supply shared Kentucky citizenship. App. 31. Proceeding on the understanding that
the settlement agreement between these two Kentucky parties would result in the dismissal of Whayne Supply from the
lawsuit, Caterpillar stated that the settlement rendered the
case removable. Id., at 31-32.
Lewis objected to the removal and moved to remand the
case to state court. Lewis acknowledged that he had settled
his own claims against Whayne Supply. But Liberty Mutual
had not yet settled its subrogation claim against Whayne
Supply, Lewis asserted. Whayne Supply's presence as a de-

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS

Opinion of the Court

fendant in the lawsuit, Lewis urged, defeated diversity of
citizenship. Id., at 36. Without addressing this argument,
the District Court denied Lewis' motion to remand on September 24, 1990, treating as dispositive Lewis' admission
that he had settled his own claims against Whayne Supply.
Id., at 55.
Discovery, begun in state court, continued in the now federal lawsuit, and the parties filed pretrial conference papers
beginning in July 1991. In June 1993, plaintiff Liberty Mutual and defendant Whayne Supply entered into a settlement
of Liberty Mutuals subrogation claim, and the District Court
dismissed Whayne Supply from the lawsuit. With Caterpillar as the sole defendant adverse to Lewis,' the case pro1

In accord with 28 U. S. C. § 1367 and Rule 14 of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, Caterpillar, after removing the case to federal court,
impleaded Lewis' employer, Gene Wilson Enterprises, a Kentucky corporation, as a third-party defendant. See App. 2. Gene Wilson Enterprises, so far as the record shows, remained a named third-party defendant, adverse solely to third-party plaintiff Caterpillar, through judgment.
See Brief for Respondent 5. No dispute ran between Lewis and his
employer, and Caterpillar's third-party complaint against Gene Wilson Enterprises had no bearing on the authority of the federal court to adjudicate
the diversity claims Lewis asserted against Caterpillar. See, e. g., Wichita Railroad& Light Co. v. Public Util. Comm'n of Kan., 260 U. S.48, 54
(1922) (federal jurisdiction once acquired on the ground of complete diversity of citizenship is unaffected by the subsequent intervention "of a party
whose presence is not essential to a decision of the controversy between
the original parties"). As elaborated in 3J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice 14.26, p. 14-116 (2d ed. 1996) (footnotes omitted): "Once federal subject matter jurisdiction is established over the underlying case between
[plaintiff] and [defendant], the jurisdictional propriety of each additional
claim is to be assessed individually. Thus, assuming that jurisdiction is
based upon diversity of citizenship between [plaintiff] and [defendant], the
question concerning impleader is whether there is a jurisdictional basis
for the claim by [defendant] against [third-party defendant]. The fact that
[plaintiff] and [third-party defendant] may be co-citizens is completely irreldvant. Unless [plaintiff] chooses to amend his complaint to assert a
claim against [third-party defendant], [plaintiff] and [third-party defend-

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

ceeded to a six-day jury trial in November 1993, ending in a
unanimous verdict for Caterpillar. The District Court entered judgment for Caterpillar on November 23, 1993, and
denied Lewis' motion for a new trial on February 1, 1994.
On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
accepted Lewis' argument that, at the time of removal,
Whayne Supply remained a defendant in the case due to Liberty Mutuals subrogation claim against it. App. to Pet. for
Cert. 8a. Because the party lineup, on removal, included
Kentucky plaintiff Lewis and Kentucky defendant Whayne
Supply, the Court of Appeals observed that diversity was
not complete when Caterpillar took the case from state court
to federal court. Id., at 8a-9a. Consequently, the Court of
Appeals concluded, the District Court "erred in denying
[Lewis'] motion to remand this case to the state court for
lack of subject matter jurisdiction." Id., at 9a. That error,
according to the Court of Appeals, made it necessary to vacate the District Court's judgment. Ibid.2
Caterpillar petitioned for this Court's review. Caterpillar
stressed that the nondiverse defendant, Whayne Supply, had
been dismissed from the lawsuit prior to trial. It was therefore improper, Caterpillar urged, for the Court of Appeals to
vacate the District Court's judgment-entered after several
years of litigation and a six-day trial-on account of a jurisdictional defect cured, all agreed, by the time of trial
and judgment. Pet. for Cert. 8. We granted certiorari,
517 U. S. 1133 (1996), and now reverse.
II
The Constitution provides, in Article III, § 2, that "[t]he
judicial Power [of the United States] shall extend ... to Conant] are simply not adverse, and there need be no basis of jurisdiction
between them."
2Because the Court of Appeals held the District Court lacked jurisdiction over the case, it did not reach several other issues Lewis raised on
appeal. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 2a, 9a, n. 3.

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS

Opinion of the Court

troversies ...

between Citizens of different States."

Com-

mencing with the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20, § 11, 1 Stat.
78, Congress has constantly authorized the federal courts to
exercise jurisdiction based on the diverse citizenship of parties. In Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch 267 (1806), this
Court construed the original Judiciary Act's diversity provision to require complete diversity of citizenship. Id., at 267.
We have adhered to that statutory interpretation ever since.
See Carden v. Arkoma Associates, 494 U. S. 185, 187 (1990).
The current general-diversity statute, permitting federal
district court jurisdiction over suits for more than $50,000
"between . . . citizens of different States," 28 U. S. C.

§ 1332(a), thus applies only to cases in which the citizenship
of each plaintiff is diverse from the citizenship of each
defendant.3
When a plaintiff files in state court a civil action over
which the federal district courts would have original jurisdiction based on diversity of citizenship, the defendant or
defendants may remove the action to federal court, 28
U. S. C. § 1441(a), provided that no defendant "is a citizen of
the State in which such action is brought," § 1441(b). 4 In a
3This

"complete diversity" interpretation of the general-diversity provi-

sion is a matter of statutory construction. "Article III poses no obstacle
to the legislative extension of federal jurisdiction, founded on diversity, so
long as any two adverse parties are not co-citizens." State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. v. Tashire, 386 U. S. 523, 581 (1967).
41n relevant part, 28 U. S. C. § 1441 provides:

"(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided by Act of Congress, any
civil action brought in a State court of which the district courts of the
United States have original jurisdiction, may be removed by the defendant

or the defendants, to the district court of the United States for the district
and division embracing the place where such action is pending. For purposes of removal under this chapter, the citizenship of defendants sued
under fictitious names shall be disregarded.
"(b) Any civil action of which the district courts have original jurisdiction founded on a claim or right arising under the Constitution, treaties

or laws of the United States shall be removable without regard to the
citizenship or residence of the parties. Any other such action shall be
removable only if none of the parties in interest properly joined and

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

case not originally removable, a defendant who receives a
pleading or other paper indicating the postcommencement
satisfaction of federal jurisdictional requirements-for example, by reason of the dismissal of a nondiverse party-may
remove the case to federal court within 30 days of receiving
such information. § 1446(b). No case, however, may be removed from state to federal court based on diversity of
citizenship "more than 1 year after commencement of the
action." Ibid.5
Once a defendant has filed a notice of removal in the federal district court, a plaintiff objecting to removal "on the
basis of any defect in removal procedure" may, within 30
days, fie a motion asking the district court to remand the
case to state court. § 1447(c). This 30-day limit does not
apply, however, to jurisdictional defects: "If at any time before final judgment it appears that the district court lacks
subject matter jurisdiction, the case shall be remanded."
6
Ibid.
served as defendants is a citizen of the State in which such action is
brought."
5In full, 28 U. S. C. §1446(b) provides:
"The notice of removal of a civil action or proceeding shall be filed
within thirty days after the receipt by the defendant, through service or
otherwise, of a copy of the initial pleading setting forth the claim for relief
upon which such action or proceeding is based, or within thirty days after
the service of summons upon the defendant if such initial pleading has
then been filed in court and is not required to be served on the defendant,
whichever period is shorter.
"If the case stated by the initial pleading is not removable, a notice of
removal may be filed within thirty days after receipt by the defendant,
through service or otherwise, of a copy of an amended pleading, motion,
order or other paper from which it may first be ascertained that the case
is one which is or has become removable, except that a case may not be
removed on the basis of jurisdiction conferred by section 1832 of this title
more than 1 year after commencement of the action."
6In relevant part, 28 U. S. C. § 1447(c) provides:
"A motion to remand the case on the basis of any defect in removal
procedure must be made within 30 days after the filing of the notice of
removal under section 1446(a). If at any time before final judgment it
appears that the district court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the case

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS
Opinion of the Court

III

We note, initially, two "givens" in this case as we have
accepted it for review. First, the District Court, in its decision denying Lewis' timely motion to remand, incorrectly
treated Whayne Supply, the nondiverse defendant, as effectively dropped from the case prior to removal. See App.
55. Second, the Sixth Circuit correctly determined that the
complete diversity requirement was not satisfied at the time
of removal. App. to Pet. for Cert. 8a-9a7 We accordingly
home in on this question: Does the District Court's initial
misjudgment still burden and run with the case, or is it overcome by the eventual dismissal of the nondiverse defendant?
Petitioner Caterpillar relies heavily on our decisions in
American Fire & Casualty Co. v. Finn, 341 U. S. 6 (1951),
and Grubbs v. General Elec. Credit Corp., 405 U. S. 699
(1972), urging that these decisions "long ago settled the
proposition that remand to the state court is unnecessary
even if jurisdiction did not exist at the time of removal, so
long as the district court had subject matter jurisdiction at
the time of judgment." Brief for Petitioner 8-9. Caterpillar is right that Finn and Grubbs are key cases in point and
tend in Caterpillar's favor. Each suggests that the existence of subject-matter jurisdiction at time of judgment may
shield a judgment against later jurisdictional attack. But
neither decision resolves dispositively a controversy of the
kind we face, for neither involved a plaintiff who moved
shall be remanded .... The State court may thereupon proceed with
such
case."
7
Caterpillar's petition for certiorari raised the question whether the
subrogation claim asserted by Liberty Mutual, and thus the citizenship of
Whayne Supply, should be disregarded for purposes of determining diversity of citizenship, in view of the settlement agreed upon between Lewis
and Whayne Supply. See Pet. for Cert. i, 18-23. Our order granting
review did not encompass that question, see 517 U. S. 1133 (1996), and we
express no opinion on it.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

promptly, but unsuccessfully, to remand a case improperly
removed from state court to federal court, and then challenged on appeal a judgment entered by the federal court.
In Finn,two defendants removed a case to federal court
on the basis of diversity of citizenship. 341 U. S., at 7-8.
Eventually, final judgment was entered for the plaintiff
against one of the removing defendants. Id., at 8. The losing defendant urged on appeal, and before this Court, that
the judgment could not stand because the requisite diversity
jurisdiction, it turned out, existed neither at the time of
removal nor at the time of judgment. Agreeing with the
defendant, we-held that the absence of federal jurisdiction
at the time of judgment required the Court of Appeals to
vacate the District Court's judgment. Id., at 17-18.8
Finn's holding does not speak to the situation here, where
the requirement of complete diversity was satisfied at the
time of judgment. But Caterpillar points to well-known
dicta in Finn more helpful to its cause. "There are cases,"
the Court observed, "which uphold judgments in the district
courts even though there was no right to removal." Id., at
16. 9 "In those cases," the Finn Court explained, "the federal trial court would have had original jurisdiction of the
8

The Court left open in Finn the question whether, on remand to the

District Court, "a new judgment [could] be entered on the old verdict
without a new trial" if the nondiverse defendant were dismissed from the
case. 341 U. S., at 18, n. 18. In the litigation's second round, the District
Court allowed the plaintiff to dismiss all claims against the nondiverse
defendant. See Finn v. American Fire & Casualty Co., 207 F. 2d 113,
114 (CA5 1953), cert. denied, 347 U. S. 912 (1954). Thereafter, the District
Court granted a new trial, on the assumption that the original judgment
could not stand for lack ofjurisdiction. See 207 F. 2d, at 114. Ultimately,
the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit set aside the judgment entered
after the second trial and ordered the original judgment reinstated. Id.,
at 117.
9
The Court cited Baggs v. Martin, 179 U. S. 206 (1900), and three lower
federal-court cases. Finn, 341 U. S., at 16, n. 14.

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS
Opinion of the Court

controversy had it been brought in the federal court in the
posture it had at the time of the actual trial of the cause or
of the entry of the judgment." Ibid.
The discussion in Finn concentrated on cases in which
courts held removing defendants estopped from challenging
final judgments on the basis of removal errors. See id., at
17. The Finn Court did not address the situation of a plaintiff such as Lewis, who chose a state court as the forum for
his lawsuit, timely objected to removal before the District
Court, and then challenged the removal on appeal from an
adverse judgment.
In Grubbs, a civil action filed in state court was removed
to federal court on the petition of the United States, which
had been named as a party defendant in a "cross-action" filed
by the original defendant. 405 U. S., at 700-701; see 28
U. S. C. § 1444 (authorizing removal of actions brought
against the United States, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §2410, with
respect to property on which the United States has or claims
a lien). No party objected to the removal before trial or
judgment. See Grubbs,405 U. S., at 701. The Court of Appeals nonetheless held, on its own motion, that the "interpleader" of the United States was spurious, and that removal
had therefore been improper under 28 U. S. C. § 1444. See
Grubbs, 405 U. S., at 702. On this basis, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court's judgment should be
vacated and the case remanded to state court. See ibid.
This Court reversed. Id., at 700. We explained:
"Longstanding decisions of this Court make clear ...

that where after removal a case is tried on the merits
without objection and the federal court enters judgment, the issue in subsequent proceedings on appeal
is not whether the case was properly removed, but
whether the federal district court would have had original jurisdiction of the case had it been filed in that
court."

Id., at 702.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

We concluded that, "whether or not the case was properly
removed, the District Court did have jurisdiction of the parties at the time it entered judgment." Id., at 700. "Under
such circumstances," we held, "the validity of the removal
procedure followed may not be raisedfor the first time on
appeal." Ibid. (emphasis added). Grubbs instructs that an
erroneous removal need not cause the destruction of a final
judgment, if the requirements of federal subject-matter jurisdiction are met at the time the judgment is entered.
Grubbs, however, dealt with a case removed without objection. The decision is not dispositive of the question whether
a plaintiff, who timely objects to removal, may later successfully challenge an adverse judgment on the ground that the
removal did not comply with statutory prescriptions.
Beyond question, as Lewis acknowledges, there was in this
case complete diversity, and therefore federal subject-matter
jurisdiction, at the time of trial and judgment. See Brief
for Respondent 18-19 (diversity became complete "when Liberty Mutual settled its subrogation claim with Whayne Supply and the latter was formally dismissed from the case").
The case had by then become, essentially, a two-party lawsuit: Lewis, a citizen of Kentucky, was the sole plaintiff; Caterpillar, incorporated in Delaware with its principal place of
business in Illinois, was the sole defendant Lewis confronted.
Caterpillar maintains that this change cured the threshold
statutory misstep, i. e., the removal of a case when diversity
was incomplete. Brief for Petitioner 7, 13.
Caterpillar moves too quickly over the terrain we must
cover. The jurisdictionaldefect was cured, i. e., complete
diversity was established before the trial commenced.
Therefore, the Sixth Circuit erred in resting its decision on
the absence of subject-matter jurisdiction. But a statutory
flaw-Caterpillar's failure to meet the § 1441(a) requirement
that the case be fit for federal adjudication at the time the
removal petition is ified-remained in the unerasable history
of the case.

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS

Opinion of the Court

And Lewis, by timely moving for remand, did all that was
required to preserve his objection to removal. An order denying a motion to remand, "standing alone," is "[o]bviously
• . . not final and [immediately] appealable" as of right.
Chicago, R. . & P. R. Co. v. Stude, 346 U. S. 574, 578 (1954).
Nor is a plaintiff required to seek permission to take an interlocutory appeal pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 1292(b) '0 in order
to avoid waiving whatever ultimate appeal right he may
have." Indeed, if a party had to invoke § 1292(b) in order
to preserve an objection to an interlocutory ruling, litigants
would be obliged to seek § 1292(b) certifications constantly.
Routine resort to § 1292(b) requests would hardly comport
with Congress' design to reserve interlocutory review for
"'exceptional'" cases while generally retaining for the federal courts a firm final judgment rule. Coopers & Lybrand
v. Livesay, 437 U. S. 463, 475 (1978) (quoting Fisons, Ltd. v.
United States, 458 F. 2d 1241, 1248 (CA7), cert. denied, 405
U. S. 1041 (1972)).
Having preserved his objection to an improper removal,
Lewis urges that an "all's well that ends well" approach is
inappropriate here. He maintains that ultimate satisfaction
of the subject-matter jurisdiction requirement ought not
swallow up antecedent statutory violations. The course
Caterpillar advocates, Lewis observes, would disfavor diligent plaintiffs who timely, but unsuccessfully, move to check
improper removals in district court. Further, that course
would allow improperly removing defendants to profit from
'0Section 1292(b) provides for interlocutory appeals from otherwise not
immediately appealable orders, if conditions specified in the section are
met, the district court so certifies, and the court of appeals exercises its
discretion to take up the request for review.
11On brief, Caterpillar argued that "Lewis effectively waived his objection to removal by failing to seek an immediate appeal of the district
court's refusal to remand." Brief for Petitioner 13. We reject this
waiver argument, though we recognize that it has attracted some support
in Court of Appeals opinions. See, e. g., Able v. Upjohn Co., 829 F. 2d
1330, 1333-1334 (CA4 1987), cert. denied, 485 U. S. 963 (1988).

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

their disregard of Congress' instructions, and their ability to
lead district judges into error.
Concretely, in this very case, Lewis emphasizes, adherence
to the rules Congress prescribed for removal would have
kept the case in state court. Only by removing prematurely
was Caterpillar able to get to federal court inside the oneyear limitation set in § 1446(b). 12 Had Caterpillar waited
until the case was ripe for removal, i. e., until Whayne Supply was dismissed as a defendant, the one-year limitation
would have barred the way,1143 and plaintiff's choice of forum
would have been preserved.
These arguments are hardly meritless, but they run up
against an overriding consideration. Once a diversity case
has been tried in federal court, with rules of decision supplied by state law under the regime of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64 (1938), considerations of finality, efficiency,
and economy become overwhelming.
Our decision in Newman-Green, Inc. v. Alfonzo-Larrain,
490 U. S. 826 (1989), is instructive in this regard. NewmanGreen did not involve removal, but it did involve the federal
12 Congress amended § 1446(b) in 1988 to include the one-year limitation

in order to "reduc[e] the opportunity for removal after substantial progress has been made in state'court." H. R. Rep. No. 100-889, p. 72 (1988).
13On appeal, Lewis raised only the absence of diversity. He did not
refer to the one-year limitation prior to his brief on the merits in this
Court. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 17, 30-31. Under this Court's Rule 15.2, a
nonjurisdictional argument not raised in a respondent's brief in opposition
to a petition for a writ of certiorari "may be deemed waived." Under the
facts of this case, however, addressing the implications of § 1446(b)'s oneyear limitation is "'predicate to an intelligent resolution' of the question
presented." Ohio v. Robinette, ante, at 88 (quoting Vance v. Terrazas,444
U. S. 252, 258-259, n. 5 (1980)). We therefore regard the issue as one
"fairly included" within the question presented. This Court's Rule 14.1.
The parties addressed the issue in their briefs and at oral argument, and
we exercise our discretion to decide it.
14 Lewis preferred state court to federal court based on differences he
perceived in, inter alia,the state and federal jury systems and rules of
evidence. See Brief for Respondent 22-23.

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS
Opinion of the Court

courts' diversity jurisdiction and a party defendant whose
presence, like Whayne Supply's in this case, blocked complete diversity. Newman-Green proceeded to summary
judgment with the jurisdictional flaw-the absence of
complete diversity-undetected. See id., at 828-829. The
Court of Appeals noticed the flaw, invited the parties to address it, and, en banc, returned the case to the District Court
"to determine whether it would be prudent to drop [the jurisdiction spoiler] from the litigation." Id., at 830. We held
that the Court of Appeals itself had authority "to dismiss a
dispensable nondiverse party," although we recognized that,
ordinarily, district courts are better positioned to make such
judgments. Id., at 837-838.. "[R]equiring dismissal after
years of litigation," the Court stressed in Newman-Green,
"would impose unnecessary and wasteful burdens on the parties, judges, and other litigants waiting for judicial attention." Id., at 836. The same may be said of the remand to
state court Lewis seeks here. Cf. Knop v. McMahan, 872
F. 2d 1132, 1139, n. 16 (CA3 1989) ("To permit a case in which
there is complete diversity throughout trial to proceed to
judgment and then cancel the effect of that judgment and
relegate the parties to a new trial in a state court because
of a brief lack of complete diversity at the beginning of the
case would be a waste of judicial resources.").
Our view is in harmony with a main theme of the removal
scheme Congress devised. Congress ordered a procedure
calling for expeditious superintendence by district courts.
The lawmakers specified a short time, 30 days, for motions
to remand for defects in removal procedure, 28 U. S. C.
§ 1447(c), and district court orders remanding cases to state
courts generally are "not reviewable on appeal or otherwise," § 1447(d). CQngress did not similarly exclude appellate review of refusals to remand. But an evident concern
that may explain the lack of symmetry relates to the federal
courts' subject-matter jurisdiction. Despite a federal trial
court's threshold denial of a motion to remand, if, at the end

Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

of the day and case, a jurisdictionaldefect remains uncured,
the judgment must be vacated. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
12(h)(3) ('"Whenever it appears by suggestion of the parties
or otherwise that the court lacks jurisdiction of the subject
matter, the court shall dismiss the action."); Finn, 341 U. S.,
at 18. In this case, however, no jurisdictional defect lingered through judgment in the District Court. To wipe out
the adjudication postjudgment, and return to state court a
case now satisfying all federal jurisdictional requirements,
would impose an exorbitant cost on our dual court system, a
cost incompatible with the fair and unprotracted administration of justice.
Lewis ultimately argues that, if the final judgment against
him is allowed to stand, "all of the various procedural requirements for removal will become unenforceable"; therefore, "defendants will have an enormous incentive to attempt
wrongful removals." Brief for Respondent 9. In particular, Lewis suggests that defendants will remove prematurely
"in the hope that some subsequent developments, such as the
eventual dismissal of nondiverse defendants, will permit th[e]
case to be kept in federal court." Id., at 21. We do not
anticipate the dire consequences Lewis forecasts.
The procedural requirements for removal remain enforceable by the federal trial court judges to whom those requirements are directly addressed. Lewis' prediction that rejection of his petition will "encourag[e] state court defendants
to remove cases improperly," id., at 19, rests on an assumption we do not indulge-that district courts generally will
not comprehend, or will balk at applying, the rules on removal Congress has prescribed. The prediction furthermore assumes defendants' readiness to gamble that any
jurisdictional defect, for example, the absence of complete
diversity, will first escape detection, then disappear prior to
judgment. The well-advised defendant, we are satisfied,
will foresee the likely outcome of an unwarranted removala swift and nonreviewable remand order, see 28 U. S. C.

78

CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWIS
Opinion of the Court

§§ 1447(c), (d), attended by the displeasure of a district court
whose authority has been improperly invoked. The odds
against any gain from a wrongful removal, in sum, render
improbable Lewis' projection of increased resort to the
maneuver.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

