OCTOBER TERM, 1996

Syllabus

IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE v.
YUEH-SHAIO YANG
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-938. Argued October 15, 1996-Decided November 13, 1996
Respondent and his wife, former Taiwan residents, executed elaborate
fraudulent schemes to gain entry to the United States and, later, to
obtain citizenship for respondent. While respondent's naturalization
application was pending, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS) learned of his unlawful entry and issued an order to show cause
why he should not be deported as excludable at the time of entry. He
conceded that he was deportable and filed a request for a waiver of
deportation under 8 U. S. C. § 1251(a)(1)(H). In affirming the Immigration Judge's denial of this request, the Board of Immigration Appeals
concluded that respondent was statutorily eligible for a waiver, but denied it as a matter of discretion. In vacating and remanding for further
proceedings, the Ninth Circuit held that the Board abused its discretion
by considering as adverse factors, first, respondents participation in his
wife's fraudulent entry and, second, his fraudulent naturalization application. The court reasoned that his acts in the former regard were
"inextricably intertwined" with his own efforts to secure entry and
must be considered part of the initial fraud, while his application must
be considered an "extension" of that initial fraud.
Held. In deciding whether to grant a waiver under §1251(a)(1)(H), the
Attorney General (or her delegate, the INS) may take into account acts
of fraud committed by the alien in connection with his entry into the
United States. The relevant statutory language establishes certain
prerequisites to eligibility for a waiver, but imposes no limitations on
the factors that the INS may consider in determining who, among the
class of eligible aliens, should be granted relief. Cf., e. g., Jay v. Boyd,
351 U. S. 345, 354. Although it is the INS's settled policy to disregard
entry fraud, no matter how egregious, in making the waiver determination, that policy is the INS's own invention and is not required by the
statutory text. Moreover, the INS has not abused its discretion by
arbitrarily disregarding its policy here; it has merely taken a narrow
view of what constitutes "entry fraud." It is assuredly rational, and
therefore lawful, to distinguish aliens such as respondent who engage in
a pattern of immigration fraud from aliens who commit a single, isolated
act of misrepresentation. Pp. 29-32.
58 F. 3d 452, reversed.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 26 (1996)
Opinion of the Court
SCALIA, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Beth S. Brinkmann argued the cause for petitioner. With
her on the briefs were Solicitor General Days,Acting Solicitor General Dellinger,Assistant Attorney General Hunger,
and Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler.
Howard Horn argued the cause for respondent. With him
on the brief were Robert L. Reeves, FranklinW. Nelson, and
Bill Ong Hing.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents the question whether the Attorney
General, when deciding whether to grant a discretionary
waiver of deportation under the applicable provision of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 95 Stat. 1616, as
amended, 8 U. S. C. § 1251(a)(1)(H), may take into account
acts of fraud committed by the alien in connection with his
entry into the United States.
Respondent Yueh-Shaio Yang and his wife, Hai-Hsia Yang,
were born and married in the People's Republic of China,
and subsequently moved to Taiwan. In order to gain entry
to the United States, they executed the following scheme:
After divorcing respondent in Taiwan, Hai-Hsia traveled to
the United States in 1978 and, using $60,000 provided by
respondent, obtained a fraudulent birth certificate and passport in the name of Mary Wong, a United States citizen.
Respondent then remarried Hai-Hsia in Taiwan under her
false identity and fraudulently obtained an immigrant visa to
enter the United States as the spouse of a United States
citizen. In 1982, four years after his fraudulent entry, respondent submitted an application for naturalization, which
fraudulently stated that his wife "Mary" was a United States
citizen by birth and that respondent had been lawfully adJUSTICE SCALIA

*DanielJ Popeo and David A. Price filed a brief for the Washington
Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Sandra E. Kupelian filed a brief for the American Immigration Lawyers Association et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.

INS v. YUEH-SHAIO YANG
Opinion of the Court

mitted for permanent residence. In 1985, while respondent's naturalization application was still pending, respondent
and his wife obtained another divorce in order to permit her
to obtain a visa under her true name (as the relative of a
daughter who had obtained United States citizenship).
The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) ultimately learned of respondent's unlawful entry, and in 1992
issued an order to show cause why he should not be
deported. The INS maintained that respondent was deportable under 8 U. S. C. § 1251(a)(1)(A), because he was excludable from the United States at the time of entry under
the former 8 U. S. C. §§ 1182(a)(14), (19), and (20) (1988 ed.).
Respondent conceded that he was deportable and filed a request for a waiver of deportation under § 1251(a)(1)(H). The
Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed the Immigration
Judge's denial of this request. The Board concluded that
respondent was statutorily eligible for a waiver, but denied
it as a matter of discretion. Although the Board did not
consider respondent's fraudulent entry in 1978 as itself an
adverse factor, it did consider, among other things, respondent's "acts of immigration fraud before and after his 1978
entry into the United States," App. to Pet. for Cert. 10a,
including his first sham divorce to facilitate his wife's unlawful entry, his 1982 application for naturalization, and his second sham divorce to assist his wife in obtaining an immigrant
visa under her real name.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit granted respondent's petition for review, vacated the Board's decision,
and remanded the case for further proceedings. Yang v.
INS, 58 F. 3d 452 (1995). The Ninth Circuit held that the
Board abused its discretion by considering as an adverse factor respondent's participation in his wife's fraudulent entry,
because those acts were "inextricably intertwined with Mr.
Yang's own efforts to secure entry into the country and must
be considered part of the initial fraud." Id., at 453. The
Ninth Circuit also concluded that the Board improperly

Cite as: 519 U S. 26 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

considered respondent's fraudulent application for naturalization as an adverse factor because that application "must
be considered an extension of the initial fraud." Ibid. We
granted certiorari. 516 U. S. 1110 (1996). 1
Section 1251(a)(1)(H) provides, in relevant part, as follows:
"The provisions of this paragraph relating to the
deportation of aliens within the United States on the
ground that they were excludable at the time of entry
as aliens described in section 1182(a)(6)(C)(i) of this title
[who have obtained a visa, documentation, entry or INA
benefit by fraud or misrepresentation] ... may, in the
discretion of the Attorney General, be waived for any
alien... who"(i) is the spouse, parent, son, or daughter of a citizen
of the United States or of an alien lawfully admitted to
the United States for permanent residence; and
"(ii) was in possession of an immigrant visa or equivalent document and was otherwise admissible to the
United States at the time of such entry except for those
grounds of inadmissibility specified under paragraphs
(5)(A) and (7)(A) of section 1182(a) of this title [relating
to possession of valid labor certifications, immigrant
visas and entry documents] which were
a direct result
2
of that fraud or misrepresentation."
'Our jurisdiction over this matter is not in question. See 5 U. S. C.
§702. The Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act
of 1996 (IIRA), Div. C., Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1997,
Pub. L. 104-208, 110 Stat. 3009, provides that "[n]otwithstanding any other
provision of law, no court shall have jurisdiction to review... any...
decision or action of the Attorney General the authority for which is specified under [Title 8 U. S. C.] to be in the discretion of the Attorney General
."
IIRA §806(a). That provision does not take effect, however, until
April 1, 1997. See IIRA §§ 806(c)(1), 809(a) (as amended by Pub. L. 104302, §2, 110 Stat. 3656).
2The last clause of the quoted provision is less than artfully drawn, since
the phrase "that fraud or misrepresentation" has no apparent antecedent.
The antecedent was unmistakable in the prior version of the provision,

INS v. YUEH-SHAIO YANG
Opinion of the Court

The meaning of this language is clear. While it establishes
certain prerequisites to eligibility for a waiver of deportation, it imposes no limitations on the factors that the Attorney General (or her delegate, the INS, see 8 CFR §2.1
(1996)) may consider in determining who, among the class of
eligible aliens, should be granted relief. We have described
the Attorney General's suspension of deportation under a related and similarly phrased provision of the INA as "'an act
of grace"' which is accorded pursuant to her "unfettered discretion," Jay v. Boyd, 351 U. S. 345, 354 (1956) (quoting Escoe
v. Zerbst, 295 U. S. 490, 492 (1935)), and have quoted approvingly Judge Learned Hand's likening of that provision to "'a
judge's power to suspend the execution of a sentence, or the
President's to pardon a convict,"' 351 U. S., at 354, n. 16
(quoting United States ex rel. Kaloudis v. Shaughnessy, 180
F. 2d 489, 491 (CA2 1950)).
Respondent contends, however, that the portion of
§ 1251(a)(1)(H)(ii) requiring the alien to be "otherwise admissible"-that is, not excludable on some ground other than the
entry fraud-precludes the Attorney General from considering the alien's fraudulent entry at all. The text will not bear
such a reading. Unlike the prior version of the waiver-ofdeportation statute at issue in INS v. Errico, 385 U. S. 214
(1966), under which the Attorney General had no discretion
to deny a waiver if the statutory requirements were met,
satisfaction of the requirements under § 1251(a)(1)(H), includwhich, in its prologue, authorized waiver of deportation "on the ground

that [the aliens] were excludable at the time of entry as aliens who have
sought to procure or have procured visas or other documentation, or entry
into the United States, by fraud or misrepresentation."

8 U. S. C.

§ 1251(f) (1988 ed.). In the prologue of the current provision, that explicit
(but lengthy) reference to fraud or misrepresentation has been replaced
by citation of § 1182(a)(6)(C)(i), which uses almost the same language to

define a class of excludable aliens. We think it if not obvious, then at
least inevitable, that the phrase "that fraud or misrepresentation" refers
to the fraud or misrepresentation for which waiver is sought, alluded to,
through citation of § 1182(a)(6)(C)(i), in the prologue.

Cite as: 519 U. S. 26 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

ing the requirement that the alien have been "otherwise admissible," establishes only the alien's eligibility for the
waiver. Such eligibility in no way limits the considerations
that may guide the Attorney General in exercising her discretion to determine who, among those eligible, will be accorded grace. It could be argued that if the Attorney General determined that any entry fraud or misrepresentation,
no matter how minor and no matter what the attendant circumstances, would cause her to withhold waiver, she would
not be exercising the conferred discretion at all, but would
be making a nullity of the statute. But that is a far cry from
respondent's argument that all entry fraud must be excused,
which is untenable.
Respondent asserts (and the United States acknowledges)
that it is the settled policy of the INS to disregard entry
fraud or misrepresentation, no matter how egregious, in
making the waiver determination. See Delmundo v. INS,
43 F. 3d 436, 440 (CA9 1994). This is such a generous disposition that it may suggest a belief on the part of the agency
that the statute requires it; and such a belief is also suggested by the INS's frequent concessions in litigation that
the underlying fraud for which the alien is deportable
"should not be considered as an adverse factor in the balancing equation," Liwanag v. INS, 872 F. 2d 685, 687 (CA5 1989);
see also Braun v. INS, 992 F. 2d 1016, 1020 (CA9 1993); Start
v. INS, 803 F. 2d 539, 542 (CA9 1986), withdrawn, 862 F. 2d
787 (1988). (Such concessions were facilitated, no doubt, by
the Ninth Circuit's frequent intimations that the statute forbade consideration of the initial fraud. See HernandezRobledo v. INS, 777 F. 2d 536, 541 (1985); see also Braun,
supra, at 1020; Delmundo, supra, at 441.) Before us, however, the United States disclaims such a position-and even
if that were the agency's view we could not permit it to overcome the unmistakable text of the law. See MCI Telecommunications Corp. v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co.,
512 U. S. 218, 229-230 (1994). But that does not render the

INS v. YUEH-SHAIO YANG
Opinion of the Court

INS's practice irrelevant. Though the agency's discretion is
unfettered at the outset, if it announces and follows-by rule
or by settled course of adjudication-a general policy by
which its exercise of discretion will be governed, an irrational departure from that policy (as opposed to an avowed
alteration of it) could constitute action that must be overturned as "arbitrary, capricious, [or] an abuse of discretion"
within the meaning of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5
U. S. C. §706(2)(A). The INS has not, however, disregarded
its general policy here; it has merely taken a narrow view of
what constitutes "entry fraud" under that policy, excluding
events removed in time and circumstance from respondent's
entry: his preentry and postentry sham divorces, and the
fraud in his 1982 application for naturalization. The "entry
fraud" exception being, under the current statute, a rule of
the INS's own invention, the INS is entitled, within reason,
to define that exception as it pleases. The Ninth Circuit
held that the acts of fraud counted against respondent can
be described as "inextricably intertwined" with, or an "extension" of, the fraudulent entry itself because they were
essential to its ultimate success or concealment. Perhaps
so, but it is up to the Attorney General whether she will
adopt an "inextricably intertwined" or "essential extension"
augmentation of her "entry fraud" exception. It is assuredly rational, and therefore lawful, for her to distinguish
aliens such as respondent who engage in a pattern of immigration fraud from aliens who commit a single, isolated act
of misrepresentation.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit is reversed.
It is so ordered.

