FEBRUARY, 1807.

166

February28.
The court ordered it to be certified as their opinion
that, under ALL the circumstances stated, the act of

BeLI,

here untithis
limitations of Virginia'was not a bar to the plaintiff's death
in
1785.
demand on the note of 21st August, 1772.

HICKS ET AL. v. ROGERS.
ET *L.

'a cas6 certified from the circuit court Ro'r .
for the district 6f Vermont, the judges of that court, "D
being opposed in opinion upon the question, whether the
plaintiffs, devisnes of a tract of land to be equally ditjded In Vermonts
support ajointac- tenants
'conlynat
¢ in ay
•
between them, could, under the Will,
tionlof ejectment. The declaratiQn did not set forth the maint.in a
title of the plaintiffs, otherwiie than' by the'following joint action a
averment---'Of which tract or parcel of land, the plain- ejcctment.
"tiffs on the 6th day of April, in.the year of our Lord
uChrist, 6ne thousand eight hundred and four, were
"w'ell seised and possessedin thFr own right, and so
"contibued thereof possessed.until the 8th day of ApriI,
"in the year last aforesaid, wuen the defendant, with"out law or right, and contrary to' the will of the plain" tiffs, thereinto entered 'and ejected, expelled, drove
"out and amoved- the plaintiffs therefrom, ahd ever
since hath, and still doth 'keep out the plaintiffs from
the premises, taking tie whole profits to himself, which
"is to the damage of the plaintiffs six hundred dollars,
,to reebver -which, and the quiet and peaceable p6ssession of- the said preiies, and just costs, they bring
"this suit."
T-IIS w

Bradley, (of Vermont,) for the plaintiffs, contended,
1st. Thatby the common law of ermont, th words
"equally to be divided between them," do not make a
tenancy in common, be'.'ause a tenancy in cpmmon is
not thereby necessarily implied. Joint heirs in Vermont hold as coparceners.
The nonourable V. Paterson, late associate justice of the sa-.
prerne court of the United States, and the honourable Elijah Paine,
district judge.

166
HtcCs
FT AL.
V.

RooEas.

~(3

SUPREME COURT U. S.

2d. That if the plaintiffs are tenants in common, yet
they have a right, by the common law to maintain ajoint
action for an injury to their lands holden in common-

Bac. Ab. 216.)

3d. That even if the plaintiffs are to be considered as
tenants in common, and could not by the common law
join in an action to recover possession, yet by the statute of Vermont of 2d of March, 1797, (Laws of Vermont, p. 118. s. 88.) they must join in an action for the
mesne profits, or rather no other action is given for the
mesne profits thai an action for the possession i/tseli; in
which the plaintiffs shall recover the possession as well
as damages.
The words of the act are, "and in every such-action,"
(ejectment,) ".if judgment be rendered for the plaintiff,
1 he shall recover as well his damage as the seisin and
" possession of the premises." As therefore the action
for the mesne profits cannot be severed flom the action
of ejectment, and as, upon every principle of latw, tenants in common 'must join in the action for the mesne
profits, it follows that they must join in the posse'ssory
action also.
The principle has also been admitted by the legislature of Vermont, by the act of 29th of October, 1806, s.
4. which declares "that tenants in common of any
"lands, &c. may join in any action whiNch concerns
"their common, interest in such land."
There was no argument on the part of the defendant.
February23.
The court decided that the action was well brought,
and that the will ought to be received in evidence to
support the declaration.

