SUPI MME COU1T U. S.

HUMPHREY MARSHALL AND WIFE, v.
JAMES CURRIE.

MARSHALL

Cu,.

Loose

ERROR to the district court of Kentucky, in a suit in

and

vagueexpres- chancery in which the plaintiffs in error were the origisons of"
in land
an nal complainants. The bill complained that the, defendentry
mi e
°
in Kentucky, .ant had obtained an elder patent for land covered

may be ren- by the comnlainants' elder entry, and prayedthat the dedered
sufficifendant might be compelled to convey to them the legal
ently eertan,
title.
by the reterence to natural objects-

The only questioin was whether the entry,. under
the complainahtt claim, described the land with

e ntnedi

which
w

by comparing

sufficient certainty. ' It was in these wordsi " Number

tlhe
enurscs -

two hundred and forty one, Thomas Marshall enters

and distances cc two
thousand acres of land on part of a military warrant,
-f the lines
" number one thousand three hundred and forty-nine,
with itosefotnie
natural
ob- " beginning on the. bank of Green River, two hundred
jects.

"pales above a beech tree marled D. L. stabding on the

" bank of the river, a few poles below the mouth of a

" branch, and a small distance above the place called
"'Glover's, upon the opposite side of thd river, thence
"running south seventy-five degrees east; one thousand
"poles, thence riorth, twenty-five degrees west, and
"from the begiiining up the meanders of the river, and
"binding thereon so far, that a line parallel to the first
" shall include the quantity. Entered August the sixth,
one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four."
The material facts found by the jury, according to the
practice of Kentucky, were, that the complainaits' entry was made on the 6th of August, 1784, and the defendant's on the day following. That tho defendant's
patent bears date on the 14th of June, 1787, and'the
complainants' patent on the 3d of June, 1796, and that
both patents include part of the same land. That the
Gren.River, and the place called Glover's, were notorious by- those names before, and-at the time of the
complainants' entry. That the wate'r-course delineated on
the plat, by the naqe of Bie Branch, is a branch running

FEBRUARY, 1807.

173

into',Grepu RIver; 596 joles above the place.called G/over', and. on the opposite side of the river, and existed
at thetime of the entry. That-the beech tree represented
-in the p&at, stands on the iank of Green River, 18
poles belowthe mouth of the Big Branch, "and is
Svjery..conspicuqus tree ;.and that the letters D. L.
"were marked at or-near said tree, upon a beech, about
"Ngvdmber or December, one ihous:nd sevenihundred
"and eighty three ;" that the beginning corner of the
complainants' survey is on the bank of Green River, 200
poles next above the -aid' beech tree, marked on the
plat. That two. other water-courses empty into the
Green River; one. called Clover-liqk-creek, below the
Big Branch, and nearer to Glover's; the other called
Embro's Spring Branch, above the.Big Branch ; both of
which are laid down on the connected plat. The jury
also fowuid that there is a small branch or drain about
250 yards long, running all the year, between Cloverlick-creek, and the lower line of the plaintiff's survey,
besides those represented on the plat. That beech
abounds all along the bank of Green River, opposite.to
Glover's station, and for a considerable distance below
and- above, except immediately above and below the
mouth of the small branch or drain--and that there was
noprdof that there was any beech tree marked D. L.
standing on the 6th of August, 1784, (the date of the
complainants' entry) upon the bank of Green River a few
poles below the mouth of a branch, as described in the
complainants' entry.
For the plaintiffs in error, H. "ifarshall contended,
that the entry was sufficiently definite in itsdescription
of the location, within the m'eaning of the act of Virgima.
The -GreenRiver and Glover's, were objects notorious,
and respecting which there is no dispute. The branch,
referred to in the enry, 4s being a small distance above
Glover's is found, at the distance of 596 poles, whic 1
was a reasonable distance,. according to the -decisions
in the cases of o7ohnson v. Naul-Craigv. 2JI'Craken,
and. Moore v. Wathinm, in Sneed's Reports, pages 390.
393. 397. 404 and 405.

Af,.u.suL
.
C
Cunuir.

174
MARSHALL

V.

CURRIE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

It is contended, that it does not appear that the letters
D. L. were on the tree on the 6th of August, 1784.
But the jury have found that those letters were marked
on a beeth, at or near the tree in questionlin December,
1783, from whence a presumption arises that they remained on the tree until the 6th of August following, unless the contrary be shown. For although the jury have
found that there was no proofof their being on ,the tree,
on the 6th of August, yet they have not found that they
were not, nor have/they"found any fact to rebut the presumption 'arising from the existence of the letters a few
months before. The jury must have meant to say that
there was no positive and conclusive proof, otherwise
their last finding contradicts their first finding--for the
presumption arising from the actual existence of iie
letteis, is proof, until that presumption be removed,
"At, or near" means at, unless the contrary is shown.
Sneed, 120.. Crow v..Bannon.
But if the letters were not on the tree, there is still
sufficient certainty in the location. Green River and
Glover's are admitted to be ceriain, but it is said the
branch is uncertain, inasmuch as there are two other
branches falling into Green River, not far from Glover's.
But Clover-lick-cree/ is out of the question because the
course of the river at that place, will not answer to the
calls of the entry. Embro's Spring Branch, is further
from Glover's than the Big Branch and the nearest branch
which Aill satisfy the location Ought to be taken. The
smallbranch ordrain, mentioned by the jury, is notlocated on the plat, and therefore we cannot, say where
it ought to be placed. But the j~iiry have found that
beech trees do not abound immediately above and below
it, and therefore it is not probable that that was the branch
referred to by the entry.
The courts in Kentucky have always endeavoured to
sustain an entry, if by reasonable construction it be possible. For this purpose they will reject an absurd or
superfluous call-they will supply a word-they will
consider a call not proved as expunged, -and although
there are more allegations than are proved, yet if enough
is proved to render the entry sufficiently certain, the
court will support it.

FEBRUARY, 1807.
To support these positions, he cited the cases of Conella v. Biscow-Kehton v. M'Conne, and Pawink' v.
.Mereivether, from Eughes' Reports, p. 15, 16. 4S. 169.
and Gaither v. Tilford-Morgan v. Robinson-Brad.
ford v. 4lien-Craigv. Yones-Craig v. 1II"Craken, and
Browv. 7ohnson; from Sneed's Rep.p.. 184, 268. 101.
331. 54. 54. 52 and 60.
H. Clay, for the defendant in error, contended, that the
beginning of the location was uncertain, and therefore that
the whole entry. was void. It dois not appear that the
letters D. L. ever were- marked on the tree, nor that
-they existed on any tree at the time of the entry. The
wholelanguage of the entry is uncertain. "Afew poles,"
" a small distance," " a branch," are expressions too
vague to support an entry.
What is uncertain in point offaUt, is not a subject of
construction by the court. To suppbrt the complainants'
entry, the court is now called upon, not to give a construction of law to the words of the entry, but td make
a new efitry in poini of fact.
Identity, notoriety, natural objects are all' wanting.
February28.
JoHNsoN, J. delivered the opinion of the court.
In the argument of counsel in this case, the only point
which it has been thought necessary to dwell upon, is
the-legal certaintyof the complainants' entry. Pursuing
the- principle that a plaintiff must recover upon the
strength of his 9wn, title, and not the weakness of his
adversary's, the defendant has not entered into any discussion relative to the sufficiency of his claim to the land
in question. The circumstances, constituting what in
the courts of Kentueky aredenominated the calls of the
complainants' entry, are, Glover's-Statioh, Green river, a
marhed tree on the bank of the river, anda branck emptying itself into the river. The two former are notorious,
and the inquiry is, can the others be sufficiently ascertained with relation to them. We aie of opinion that
they cmi-.. The only objection that can be mide to the
Vol. ly.
z

BMAUSU.LL

V.

176
MARSHALL

V.
CuZRirr.

SUPREME COURT -U. S.

identity of the tree and brapch with relation to which the
complainants have made their survey, ard the actual dis'
tance of'those objects above Glover's Station, the nncertainty attendant'upon calling for a tree of which a larg6
number grow along the banks of the river, and. the cxistence of atother stream emptying itself into the same
river nearer to Glover's Station, and which it is contended will angwer the call.
These difficulties, we are of opinion, are all removed
by considering the courseg called for by the complainants
with relation to the courses of the river.
Above -Glovir's Station, and until 5ou reach the bend
of the river above which the cbmplainants' entry is surveyed, the course of the river is east and west. It there
assumes a different direction, and its course is north and
south. By survey ing the entry at the point where the complainants have located their land, itassumes a shape, adapted to the course of the river. At any point below where it
is situated, and until you reach the place dalled Glovero
Stati ,n,
it is impossible that it can be located. This cir.'
cumstance is sufficient in our opinion to establish the
branch
which
called'
as it is the first you meet
with ab6ve
the was
bend ; and for,
when that is ascertained, there'
is no longer any difficulty in loctiting the complainants'
land.
The jury find that the tree called for ig very conspicuous,'and that previous to the date of the complain'ants' entry a tree very near the spot where that is situ-'
ated wA marked D. L. Although a tree of a particular
species, at a'distance not precisely limited) may be un'
certain where that tree abounds,.the impression of a cer-.
tain mark upo n such a tree is"
a sufficient identification;
when accompanied with,the other circumstances of this'
case, which might have been resorted to by a subsequent
locator to prove the identity of this tree.
In giving this opinion the eourt is not uninfluenced by
an anxiety to save the early estates acquired in that coun-try. Such was the laxity of the'rules upon whith' the
rights of individualt depended under the land laws of
Virginia, that this court'feels a strong sense of the ne-

FEBRUARY, 1807.

177

cessity of liberality in deciding upon the validity of
entries.

MAsHALI.

V,

The court,. therefore, reverses the decree of the distric eourt, and decrees a conveyance, to be executed by
the defendant to the complainants, of that .part of the
land contained in his patent which is included in the
complainants' qurvey, and that eath party pay their own
costs.
Decree reversed.

VIERS AND WIFE v.MONTGOMERY.

Vits
V.

MowrTOoM-

ERROR to the district court of Kentucky, in a suit
in chaucery brought originrily by Montgoiery against
W. M.V iers bnd Patsy his wife; late Patsy Henly, to
compel the latter to convey to thu foimer the legal estate in certain lands in Kentucky,. which one Ebenezer
Brooks, since-deceased, conveyed, by deeds dateat the
10th of November, 1191, to the defendant?s wife, while
wido4, 'and which Brooks by his last will devised to
the coshplainant Montgomery. The bill charged that
the only -consideration.of the deeds from Brooks to Patsy
Hfenly -was, that she' should" take him as her husbanol,"
which she refused to do,' but interm~arried with the defendant, W. M. -Viers.. -It did not aver that the complainant was of kin~to'the deceased, o that he had any
equitable claia" other than as a devisee. Nor did it
charge the defendant Patsy with any promise of marriage, or any breach ofsuch a' romise, rior with-fraud iii
obtaining the deedsu- The will of Brooks, referred to in
the bill, calls the complainant his friend and cousin. The
deeds were of bargain and sale in fee, and purported to
be itionsideration of 1,100!.Virginia currency, and contained a warranty against Brooks, and *ll claiming under
him.

A court or

equity 'vilt
not interfere
betwee
a donec ofladby
deed, and a
deviseeunder
donor,
a"il ofin-a
the
caso nwhere
there is no
fr-ud.

