SUPREME COURT U. S.
Mo uNTz

V.
HO DGSON.
os.

Others are of opinion that a writ of error will lie to that

decision of the court, but that this writ of error is not to
thejudgment of the circuit court, but to that of thejustives.
Writ of error quashed.

BLAINE ti. THE SHIP CHARLES CARTER,
BLAINE
V.

AND

TurE SIP

DONALD AND BURTON AND OTHERS

CHARLPS

CLAIMANTS.

CARTER.

If'the obli-

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Vir-

gee of a bot- gihia.
tomry bond
sufMer the ship
Blaine libelled the ship Charles
to make seve.

C6irter, Bell master,
ral voyages, owned by M'Cawley, upon two 'bottomry bonds ;. one
without as- executed in London by Bell the master, on the 14th of
ierting his
lien, and exe-

July, 1796, and payable ten days after the arrival of the
cutions are le- ship in Virginia ; the other.executed on the 27th of Ocvied upon the tober, 1796, by M'Cawley the owner, in Virginia where
ship by other he resided-, and payable in thirty days after the arrival
creditors, thepaal
uryds
obligee loses of the ship in Europe. The answer of A.['Cawley adhis lien on mitted the truth of all the allegations of the libel; but a
the. ship.
claim was interposed by Donald and Burton, creditor- of

-11r'1awley, who had on the 30th of November, 1Y97,
obta jied judgment against him, and at whose suit the
marshal on the 30th of December, in the same year,
had seized the ship in execution upon several Writs of
flerifacias, issued on the 7th of the same month, from
the circuit court for the district of Virginia, before the
warrant of arrest had issued from the district court,
upon Blaine's libel. The libel was filed on the 19th of
January, 1798, on Which day also the warrant to arrest
the ship was issued.
It appeared in evidence, that the first bottomry bond
was given by the master to Blaine, upon the first roy

FEBRUAR'Y, 1808.

329

age to London, and that the consideration of that bond
consisted of money paid to take up a prior bottomry bond
and given to one Robertson; and of money paid for seamen's wages, provisions, repairs, and finishing the
ship, she having come out from Virginia in a rough
unfinished condition, and badly provided with sails and
rigging. The money upon this bond was to be paid
within ten days after the arrival of the ship in Virginia.
She arrived in Virginia on the 28th of September, in
the same year; after which the agent of Blaine called
for the discharge of the bond, but on failing to receive
the money, did not think it necessary to arrest the vessel.
Blaine was a very large creditor of M'Cawley, over and
above the amount of the bottomry bonds, and was authorised to receive the freights of the ship, and to apply
them to his gdneral account current with M'Cawley.
The bond of the 27th of October, 1796, was taken in
order to secure advances made by Blaine to MI'Cawley
to enable him to finish the -ship before she- sailed on her
first voyage in March, 1796, to the time of her sailing,
or at any time afterwards, and to secure Blaine for money paid by him to discharge three executions which had
been served upon the ship. Between the date of the first
bottomry bond, and the filing of the libel, the ship made
two voyages from England to America, and one from
America toEngland, .and the freights were rpeceived by
Blaine. The districtcourt decreed in favour of Blaine
for the whole amount of the first bottomrybond, and for
so much of the other as appeared to have been actually
advanced for necessaries for the ship; but the circuit
court, on the 6th of December, 1799, reversed the decree, and dismissed the libel with costs. Blaihe appeiled from the decree of the circuitcourt, to this court,
but the appeal was at that time dismissed for want of a
statement offacts made in the court'below, agreeably
to the 19th section of the judiciary act 'of 1789, c. 20.
After the passing of the act of congress of Id of March,
1q03. vol. 6. p. 315. c. 93. the cause was brought up
again by writ of error, and was iow argued upon the
evidence contained in the record.
C. Lee, for'the plaintiff in error.
The hypothecation in Lojndon was a legal lien upon
she ship, and no circumstance had occurred to deprive

BLAI:2.
T
CHaRLS
CARTER.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BLAXVF

V.

CHARLS

CArETIZ.

-ligor:

the libellant of its benefit. Possession of the vessel hypothecated, is never delivered to the obligee of a'bottomry bond; so that no inference of fraud can be drawn
from the fact, that the possession remained with the obnor was there any rule of law which required the
6bligee to assert his lien in any given time. This lien was
prior to that of the judgment creditors.

As to the bond of 27th of October, 1796, given by the
owner in Virginia, it rests upon the same law as the bond
of the master. An owner may borroW money, on bottomry, for fitting out his ship for a voyage, and hypothecate the ship therefor.- Cro. yac. 209. Sharpley v.
.Furrel, 2 Bl. Conz. 458. A master, if part owner,
may take up money on bottomry to the value of his own
share, in places where the owners reside. 2 Molloy, &
2. c. 2. Y. 14, and 15. Hence it may be inferred that
any other owner may do the like. If the master may
hypothecate the ship afortiorimay the owner. Park,410.
The executions of Donald and Burton were void, because issued within ten days after dfie judgments, contrary to the act of congress. Vol. 1. p. 63. s. 23.
P. B. Key, for the defendants in error, contended,
1. That the bonds were paid off by the receipt of the
freights which ought to have been applied to that purpose.
2. That there was no bottomry consideration for the
second bond; and
S. That the bonds were fraudulently held up by

Blaine, to give a false credit to M'Caivley, while Blane
was receiving the whole benefit of the vessel.

1st. With regard to the freights, he contended that,
as there was no application at the time of the receipt of
them, a court Quglit to apply them to the discharge of
the bottomrv bonds.
2d. That as Blaine was the correspondent of M'Cawley, and his creditor to i large amount, and the consi-

FEBRUARY, 1808.
deration of the bonds being charged in account, BI'Caw- BLA;Zz
ley was at all events personally liable for the monies ad- Tn, Y"
Snx:P
vanced, and therefore these monies did not run the risk CUAUI.ES
of the voyage. That the bottomry bond of 27th Octo- C.Ra.
ber, 1796, was given for monies long before advanced,
and to be advanced, and not for necessaries advanced
upon the credit of this security on the ship.
Sd. That his suffering the vessel to go sever.l other
voyages aftcr'the bonds became due, was either evidence
of fraud, or of a waiver of the lien on the vessel It
was absurd to suppose that he would risk the money -a
second and a third time on the vessel, without a new
premium, or an insurance. It is probable that the second bond was intended to cover the vessel during
her winter's stay in Virginia.
If the executions were improperly issued, the reatedy was to move to quash them on their return. Perhaps they were yoidable, but they were not void.
March 8.
CHAsE, J.* delivered the opinion of the court.

The libel In this case was filed upon two instruments
of writitig purporting to be bottomry.bonds, the one executed by the master in a foreign port, the other by the
owner in a port of the state of Virginia, in which state
the libel was filed.
The voyage in the former bond terminated in Virginia, and the vessel has since made two voyages. .The
latter instrument was on a voyage which terminated in
London, and the vessel has since made a voyage to this
c6untry. Upon her return here, and before the warrant
of the admiralty was served, the executiois were levied
upon her, which form the ground work of the claim interposed by Donald and Burton.
O Marhall, Ch.

J. having decided the case in the circuit court,

did not give an opinion here. Cushing, J. was absent.

332

SBA1Nz
Tftz Sirip
CHAALES
CARTE-

'question.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The ship has been sold under the order of, the court
below, and the question is, who has the preferable claim
to the money now lying in the marshal's hands. On
the validity of the bond of the master there can be no
"It is ackn'owledged by counsel to poisess all
the'requisites of a good bottomry bond. But it was contended that it was satisfied by the freights, which it appears Blaine was in the receipt of ; and if not satisfied,
was fraudulently upheld to the prejudice of' general
creditors. In addition to the objections taken to the
first bond, it is further contended against the pecond,
that it wanted a sufficient bottomry consideration in part
or in the whole. The court think it unnecessary to giv'e
a particular consideration to the several objections above
stated. A satisfactory conclusion on the rights of the
parties may be drawn from other principles, on the nature and effect of the contract of bottomry.
A bottomry bond made by the master vests no absolute -indefeasible interest in the ship on which it is founded, but gives a claim upon her which may be enforced
with all the expedidon and efficiency of the admirdty
process. This rule is expressly laid down in the bpoks,
and will be found consistent with the principle of the
civil law, upon which the contract of bottomry is beld to
give a claim upon the ship.. 'In the case of a bottomry
bond exe'cuted by an owner in his own place of residence, the same reason does not exist for giving an implied'admiralty claim upon the bottom, for it is in his
power to.execute an express transfer or mortgage. There
is strong reason to contend that' this claim or privilege
shall be lpreferred to every Other for the voyage on which'
the bdttomry is founded, except seamen s wages. " But
it certitinly can extend no further. Had the warrant of the admiralty been first served iipon the ship,
there might be some ground to contend that this court
ought notto divest that possession in favour of executions served at a subsequent day, at least to the
prejudice of the bond executed by the master. But as
the executions in this case were levied before the service
of the warrant, and s'o long after the bonds became due,
the owners of the'ship had lost that possession, upon
which alone the warrant of the admiralty could operate.
after losing the right of preference.

FEBRUARY, 1808.
Some objections have been made-to the validity of
these'executions' on the ground of their having issued
previous.to the day on which by law they ought to have
issued. On this point the court will give no opinion.
If iriegular, the court from which they issued ought to
have been moved to iet them aside ; hey were not void,
because the marshal could hate justified under them, and
if voidable, the proper mieans of destroying their efficacy have not been pursued.

B LAIi#Z
V.

Tpe Ship
CI'AU L S
CATn.ZR.

The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, and the
money ordered to be paid ovei to the execution creditors.

THE UNITED STATES v. GURNEY
AND OTHERS.

TanaU\,TzD
STATZ5
V.

Gen%,y AWD
OTIt~nS

THIS case was certified from the circuit court for the
district of Pennsylvania, the judges of that court being
divided in opinion upon the question, Whether, upon
the state of the pleadings, the judgment ought to be rendered for the plaintiffs .
It was an action brought by the United States agaitfst
Gurney and others, upon a bond conditioned to comply
with a certain written agreement between them and the
secre tary of the treasury of the United States, of the same
date," to pay the sum of 500,000 guilders at Amsterdam,"
"in the manner and form, and on or before the particular
days and times in the said agreement mentioned ; or in
case the said sums shall not be paid as aforesaid, at either
of the said places, then to repay tQ the United States the
value of ihe said 500,000 guilders, at the rate of exchange. current in Philadelphia at the time demand of
payme(nt is made, together with damages at 20 per cent,
in the same manner as if bills ofexchange had been dra.wn
for the said sum, and they had been ieturned protested

B, in Philadtlphi2,

a-

greed to pay
to A's agent
170,000 guil.

ders in Amsterdamonthe
1st of NL-ch ;
and if
le
should fail to
to (to, then to

repay to A
the value of
the said guildw
at the
rMte of- ixchange current in Philadelphia at the
time demand

of payment is
made, togetier with damages at 20

per cent, in
the same manl-

