FEBRUARY, 18ay.

179

Which decree was by this court, without argument,
reversed, and the complainant's bill dismissed, with costs.

VIP-s
v.

Decree reversed:

DIGGS AND KEITH v. WOLCOTT.

Dcs
V.

V OLCOTT.

THIS was an appeal'from a decree of the circuit A court of
court for the district of Connecticut, in a suit in chan- the United
cery.

The appellants, Diggs and Keith, had commenced a
suit at law against Alexander Wolcott, the appellee, in
the county court for the county-of Middlesex, in the
state of Connecticut, upon two promissory notes-given
by Wolcott.to one Richard Mfatthews, for the purchase of
lands in Virginia, and by him indorsed to the appellants ;
whereupon Wolcott filed a bill in chancery in the superior
court of the state, against, the appellants Diggs and
Keith, and also against Robert oung and Richard Matthews, praying that Diggs and Keith might be compelled to give up the two notes to be cancelled, or be perpetually enjoined from proceeding at law for the recovery
thereof, &c.
This suit in chancery was removed by the appellants
from the state couit into the circuit court of the United
States for the district-.f Connecticut, where it was decreed that Diggs and Keith should, on or before a certam day, deliver the notes to the-clerk of the court, and
in default thereof should forfeit and pay to rolcott 1,500
dollars ; and that they should be perpetuallyenjoined,&c.
and that Robert l'oung should repay to the appellee the
amount of principai and interesi which the latter had paid
on account of the purchase of the lands ; and that the appellee should deliver up to the clerk the surveys of the,
lands, and the bond of conveyance; and in default thereor
should pay to R. Young the sum of 20,000 dollars.

Statez canDt
enjoin proceedins inn
:taac court.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
DIG GS
V.
WYOLCOTT.

The case was argued upon its merits by C. Lee.and
Swan for the appellants, and by P. B. Key for the appellee ; But the Court being of opinion that a circuit
court of te United States had not jurisdiction to enjoin
proceedings in a state court,
Reversed the decree,
W - v.LD.--

WooD

WOOD

t.

LIDK.

V.

LinE.

If a writ of

error be serred before the
retu n day, it
tMed after,
even ata sub.
se
ansuentterm
the ap.;
pearance of
the defendant
in
error
waives.
all obecties tl tbsrreguhrityof

the return

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
Georgia.
The writ of error was dated
23d of December,
1805, and returnable to Februarythe
term,'1806 ; the citfttion also b6rethe same date, and commanded the defendant in error to appear at the same term. The writ of
error was filed in the clerk's office of the court below on
the same 23d of December. The judgment below was
not'signed until the 4th day of January, 1806. The writ
of error was' not returned and filed in the clerk's office
of the supreme court until the 18th of March, 1806, aft the court had closed its session.
ter

The service
of a .writ jof
P. B. Key, for plaintiff in error, suggested that in such
error is the
lodging a co- a case the writ of error ought to be dismissed of course.
py thereof for

phd adverse

The Court, however, inclined to be of a contrary

Office of the opinion but, informed Key that they would give him
clerk -of the an opportunity to show the contrary.
court where
the judgment
was rendered.

On a subsequent day he contended that the writ could
not be returned at any other term than that to which it
was returnable,,and to ishich the defendant in error had
been cited to appear. After the expiration of the term
it was.void, The execution of a writ of error is the sending up the record according to its command, ahd.to
send the redord up at another term is no execution of
the writ.

