SUPREME COURT U. S.

The mere saving in an act of congress which expreshly renders all judgments of. he cicuit court, for a larger
sum than one hundred dollars, re-examinable by writ
of error in this court, cannot be considered as exempting judgments rebdered in favour of the bhnk, from the
operation of this general enacting clause respecting
writs of, error. 'If the act of March, 1801, be considered as giving the batik a right to proceed in the circuit court for Alexandria, in the same manner as by
the act of incorporation, it might proceed in Virginia,
yet- that act does not affect the writ of error as given in
the act of the 27th of February.

You'
BAK or

ALZXANy

The motion is, therefore, overruled.

SPIERS v. WILLISON.

SpiRSa
V.

W LLISO'.

By the act of
assembly of
Virginia
of
1758, no gift

of a slave
was valid, unless in writing
and recordd ;
but parol evi-

dence may be
given of the

existence of a
show the

a-

tore of possession which
accompanied

ERROR to the district court for the district of Kentucky, in an action of detinue for certain slaves.
The plaintiff below, Rebecca Willison, claimed title to
the slaves under her grandmother, and at th trial offered jarol proof that the grandmother, while Kefitucky
was a part of Virginia, had given them to her by a deed,
which was lost. To this testimony the defendant below
(the plaintiff in'error) objected, and prayed the court to
instruct the jury that the said deposition was not legal
evidence in this cause ; and that atthe time this gift ivas
supposed to be made, no gift of a slave in Virginia was
valid unless made in writing, which writing was afterwards reducedto record; which motion was ovdrruled
bv the court, ahd the defendant excepted.
'P. B. Key, for the plaintiff in error, cbntedded, that
as there could be no valid gift of a slave but by deed in
writing and recorded, no paro evidence could be given
of the existence of such a deed and of its contents, unless it wvere first proved not only that the deed itself was

FEBRUARY, 1808.

399

lost, but that it had been duly recorded, adhe rec6rd
also destroyed.

The next best evidence to the deed itself is the copy
from the record, and unless the loss of this better evidence-be proved,-an inferior grade of evidence ought
not to beadmitted.
The court ought also to have instructed the jury that
a parol gift of a slave in Virginia was not valid. 1 Wash.
139. Turner v. Turner.
,o7nes and Harper,contra.
It is not- stated in the bill of exceptions that this was
the whole evidenc6.' -It was-good as far as it went. If
there was evidence that the-deed had been duly recorded, and that the record had.been lost, it would have been
completeevidence f- title. But it appears by the depositions that befotn the expiration of the time'limited
for' the re'cording of the deed, the plaintiff and the slave
reMoved from the state of Virginia to South Carolina.
It was a-good deed at that time, and vested a title in the
plaintiffuntil the expiration bf the time for rmeording.
Before that time arrived, the plaintiff and slave were
both out of the jurisdictiotr of the laivs of Virginia.
But-by the laws both of Virginia and South Carolina,.
possession -for a certain time gives a good title. Evidence of-the deed was evidence Qf the claim under which
the plaintiffhild the possession.
- It.wag not necessary for the planiiff to prove a special
title, for possession alone was sufficient to support the
action,

-

The prayer t6 instruct the jury that a parol gift was
not valid, was a prayer for an abstract- opinion, and in
its terms not applicable to the case. The court merely
refused to give the instruction. It might be because,the
question was put to the court in such a manner as not toconnect 'it with the case ;-it might be that the court
thought the question irrelevant.
Vol. IV

Spinis
v.

SUPREME*COURT U. S.
.SIrFs

Key, ;T reply.

"V.

IVILLISOir.

The fact of removal does not appear in'the bill of exceptions, and we cannot seek for facts elsewhere.

March 14.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The error assigned consists in
both the admission ahd the operation of the testimony.
So far as evidence of the existence of a deed Went to
show the nature of the possession which accompanied
the deed, so far it was admissible ; but it was not iii itself evidence of any title in the plaintiff. There was no
error, therefore, in admitting the testimony as to the
,deed.

But in overruling the prayer to instruct the jury, "that
at she time the gift was said to be made, no gift of a
slave was valid unless made in writing, which writing
was afterwards reduced to record," the court'below is
to be considered as having given an opinion that a parol
gift was good. This court is, therefore, of opinion, that
the court below erred in refusing .to give the latter part
of the instruction prayed' by the defendant.
This court gives no opinion as io the validity of title
acquired by possession.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded.

