SUPREME COURT U. S.
TH&UNITED

STATES
KID AND
WATsor.

said articles come under the description of bar& and
plates."
Rodne'4, Attorney Generil ,

Admitted that the case was not to be supported, on
the part of, tle United States, and that judgment must
be given for the, defendatsk.

JENNINGS v. CARSON.
V.

C aso.

The owner of -THIS was an arpeal from the sentence of the circuit
a piivateer
capturing

court for the district of Pennsylvania, in a cause civil

. andrmaritime, in which yennings was the libellant, qnd

neutral snot
liable to adecre of restthe property,

Carson the respondent ; the former claiming to be
owner of the sloop George and 'cargo, captured, in the
year 1778, by the American privateer Additiop, commaided' by Moses Griffin, of which the respondent,

or its pro. Carson, was part owner, and which was libelled and
ceeds, caie condemned, on the 31st of October, 1778, as lawful
to The
his hands.
district
Newprize, by the court of admiralty for thd state offNw
tohe hdst
courts of the Jqrsey; from which sentence of condemnation. there
United States was an appeal to the continental court of appepls, esta are courts of blishefunder authority of the old congress, where the
prize; and
have power sentence of condeipnation was, on the 23d of December,
-to carry into 1780, reversed, and restitution ordered, but never obeffectthesen- tamined. In the mean time, however, the vessel 'and
tences of the cargo had been sold by the marha of the statc court of
old continent-

al courts of
appeals in'
prize causes.
In all proceedings i,

admiralty, forpaper money, under an order of the court
contitined in the sentefice of condemnation, and it did
No
not apper what had been done with that moned.

measures were fLento enforce the decree of restitution
rem.,the court during the 61d confederation.

.has.
a thetin
right to
order
to

d

thken

On the 19th of, May, 1790, after the adoptiot of the

into custody present constitution of the United States, Jenningi filed
of the law ;his libel in the district court for the district of Pennand jt islo be sylvania, alleging that he ws -a subject. of the States

FEBRUAR', 180T.

3

G-neral of the United Provinces, an inhabitant and do- JarvNIGs
miciled at the island of St. Eustatius, and. owner ofshe " v,
.
sloop George and her cargo, at the time of capture
bound to the port of Egg-Harbour in the United-States, presumed to
and consigned to A. and G. Caldwell; in the prosecu- be in custody
of the 2w,
tiou of which voyage she was illegally captured by the
unesthe
privateer Addition, owied in part by the. respondent, contrsr 2p.
Carson, and "praying process for arresting Carson, to pesrs.
t! rf
answer, &c. , A supplementdl libel was filed, setring . The
court of lo' tne fpforth the proceedings against the vessel in the
admiralty of New-Jersey; the sqntence of coqdemna- peal into the
tion ; the appeal ; the reversal of that sentence, and the superior
court, but reorder of restitution.
mains in the
court below,
Neither the original nor supplemental libel prayed any %whichhas a
igh to order
specific or general relief, othe'rathan process for arresthI . it to be sold,
i
ianswer
perishabre,
the
lto
appear
should
tlat
fie
so
ing Carson,
bellant" in his said complaint, of the -wrongsand inju- notwithstandries aforesaid, accoyding to the resolutions of the con- ing the *ptinental congress, the laws of the United States, and of Peal'
the commonwealth of Pennsyliania; and the laws and
usages of nations in this behalf practised, used, and
established."
Carson, being taken upon the writ of arrest, appeared
and filed his plea and answer, averring the sloop George
to have been the property of a subject of -the king of
Great Britain, -at thie time of capture, and employed in
carrying goods to the British army and navy-; that telw
goods were imported directly or indirectly from Grea;
Britain or Ireland, contrary to the regulations of congress and the law of nations ; the king of Great.Britain
then being at war with the United States.
It a dmits that Carson was the owner of one-third of
the privatee. It admits the'capture, the condemnation,
and sale, the appeal aid reversal, and the order of restitution, but denies that any part -of the proceeds of the
sale ever came to the hands of the owrners of the priva.
teer, or either of them, but remained in the hands of the
marshal-of the court of admiralty of New-yersey, -who
alone is answerablefor the same. It avers, that Griffin,
the commander of the privateer, had probable cause for

4'

SUPREME COURT U. S.

jEXHIc

making the capture, and therefore the owners are not

VC :.
CIRSOJT.

liable.

* It denies the jurisdiction 'of the district court' of
Pennsylvania to take cognizance of the question, the
same belonging exclusively to the court of admiralty of
the state of' New-Jersey, and to the court of appeals
established by the continental congress. It denies the
jurisdiction of the court as a prizd court in'any case,
and especially in cases of capture made during the Bri.
tish war, and avers that it has no, authority to carry into
effect a decree of either of those courts established under the old government.
After filing his plea and answer, Carson died, and
Jennings filed a petition, suggesting the death of Carson, and charginghis executors with assets, and praying that the suit may stand revived against them ; upon
which a citation issued, and the executors appeared and
answered generally by a reference to the answer and plea
Of their testator, and furtherpleaded,that by the lair
aritime, the lawv of the land, and the laws and ordi
nances of. the United States, they, as executors; .are
not liable to be proceeded agai.ast in that court for the
several matters set forth in the libel, for that they are
not answerable for the wrongs and q.fences, or the pre.
tended wrongs and offences of their testator ; and also,
for that courts maritime hate not authority to intdrmeddie with the estates and effects, real or personal, of
dec eased persons, or to give relief against the same, or
to stize or take the same effects or estates in execution,
or toimprison the bodies of executors for the default of
the testator.
To these pleas and answers there were general replication.
On the 30th of M-arch, 1792, the judge of 'thq district court gave an opinion in favour of its jurisdiction"
in general cases as a prize court ; but on the 21st of
September, 1793, he dismhissed the libel, on the ground
that the district court was not competent to compel the
execution of a decree of the late continental court of

FEBRUARY, 1807.

appeals.* This sentence was affirmed in the circuit
court on the 11th of April, 1798, but was reversed by
thii court at February term, 1799, so far as the same

The following learned opinion of the Hon. Judge Peters, upon
theprizejurisdiction of the district courts of the United btates, is
too important to be omitted.
"fThis is a case in which the general principles are stated in the
proeeedings and'exhibits, and, therec re, %%illappear clear enough
by the perusal of them. There are st.me circumstances, hovever,
not clearly ascertained b3 those exhibits, which I shall have occasion to menti-m, in the course of the observations which I shall
make on the merits hereafter. The libel complains of the illegal
capture of the sloop George, whereof Robert Smith was master,
and her cargo, the property of the librllatt, then and now a subject of Holland, during the late war, viz in Jidy, 1778, b) the
schooner privateer Addion, Mowae Gtiffin commander belonging
to the testator, YosepA Carion, and otherb, who are namtd in the
answer of Yoseph Carson, in his life-time.
" It is alleged, on the part of the respondents, that the vessel cap.
tured wvs employed in carrying goods belonging to the subjtcts of
Great Britain, contrary to the regulations and lus of the then
congress. They rely on the libel and condennation in the state
court of admiralty of New-Jersey-the -verdict of thejury ascertaining the facts, and the condemnaiinn by the court and order of
sale, and for payment of the net proceeds to the captors.
"The sale ofthe vessel and cargo atvendue, and the monies being.
received by the marshal of the court, in whose hands it is stid they
now remain in depreciqted pamer, not having been distributed to
and among the captors, and of course the resptndents, or their
testator, received no part thereof, and therefore they allege that the
marshal only is i:hargeable to the libellant, and not the respondents
or the testator. They insist that there was prob~tble ct.use of seizure, and therefore the captors are not answerable in damages.
They also plead ip abatement to the jurisdiction of the court, be.
cause they assert that the subject of prize or no prize belongs to
the admiralty of New-Jersey, and not to this court, xvhicb has no
cognizance of the question ; nor has it power to effectunte itsjudg.
ment against executors. On the part of the executors particularly,
an answe: was put in denying their being chargeable fat"the torts
of the testator, which, as well as their.consequences, die with his'
perion. But on an explanation on the behalf of the libellant, that
be claimed no damages for the tort, merel) as a tort, hut sought for
restitution of his property only, the point was abandoned by the advocates for the respondents.
"' The libellant, to repel this defence, and denying, in thV usual
form, the facts as stated, sets fo'th the reversal of the judgment of
the fourt of New-Jersey, by the decree of the court of appeals of
the United States, the 23d of December, 1780, which contains a
direction to the laiter court to make restitution of the property,
with costs, but not damages. They also join issue on the point of

Jrsuncs
V.
S

SUPREME COUl1T U. s:
JunNlZUGs

aecreed that the district court had not jurisdiction tocarry
SAIsO.
into effect the decree bf the court of appeals, andt

the cause was remanthrd to th8 district court for further
jurisdiction, and distinguish between a suit commenced in the 1ietime of the testator, and on. brought in the first instance against
the executors.
M Fire points were made by the'advocates of the respondents I
. The tort dying with'the nerson. 2d. The jurisdiction of this court
is not comp'etent, a. it is/ot a prize court. 3d. and 4th. If a'prlze
court, yet, as the cause originally attieched in the court of New-Jerse",' that was the only court in which the consequence. were cogni.
zable, and alone competent to effectuate the decree of the court of
appeals. 5th A capture -with probable cause is not a subject of
action for damages.
"" The first point being waived, brings the qlueston to tho'coffpetency of jurisdiction, which in order, as well as necesityi
should be the first point considered, because, if the tourt has no.
sdiction, it is nugatory to inquire into the "niterits of the chuse.
this point, as it first struck me, I confess I had doubts' The
account given by Lord Mansfield of the arrangement of the court
of admiralty in England, as detailed in the case of Lind6 & Rodney,
produced hesitation, and my respect for the opinion of that great
character, as well as the argamenis of the advocates in thepresent
cause, induced a deliberate consideration of the subject. The dllvision of the court of admiralty into, tw6 sides, prize, and instmike, wnb
new to me, and it is allowed not to have been generally known, if
at all, 'by the common lawyers in England, before 'that case was
d.etermined, In this couinry it never was known, nor does it appear that any new comnission was ever transmitted to the colonihl
judge of the admiralty from. Great Britain befbre the revolution, lh
cases of wars between that kingdom and its enemies. I hhvl
traced fron r~eords and othei" authentic .information, the prnceedL
ings of the admiralty cburt of Penn4ylvania, for a period exceeding
fifty years, and 1 have the best reason for believing that the prac,
tiqe in other dolonies was similar. In ill the proceedings, theprive
otits afe called suits civil arid mar) rn. During the late war, whefl
We assumed and effected our independence, the praeeedins were
uhaltered in this point. I do not find' that there is bily such digUnction in any other nation, except it shouloihe found in Holland,
and of t|is I much doubt. The authority out of Bynkersioehk (17.)
produced by one of the advocates for the respondents, founded on
an ordinance of the Earl of Leicester, shows that there is a court
.there whose authority is etlrely confined to captures as przeA,'orlt
it has no juzisdiction even of other maritime cases, This,- there.
fore, is not applicable to a question concerning the powers of a
court of admiralty, which is allowed, even 'in the case of Lindo &
Rodey, to possess jurisdiction in all maritire causes, though in
England it is said to act under a peculiar (and therefore not gne.
ralfy knoxvn) organization. I take it, therefore, for grantcd, because thq contrary has not been showfn that in England alone are
these. distinct branches of the same court to be found. In all the
bboks of reports in which cases ofprohibitions to the admiralty aro

FI BRJARY, 180Y.

7

proceedings; the respondent being at liberty to cbiten[
before that court, as matter of defence to the meritsi or
to the forr of proceedings, that the libel sh6uld first
mentioned, precedent to the case of Lindo & Rodrcy, these proh."
bitions are moved for and granted generally to the court of admi.
raly,; and though in a case in 1irrm heports, (long after the case
of Linda & Rodney,) the distinction is taken, mid the prohibitions
maoved for to the prize court, this very instance shows it to be a
novelty in the 'ommon law books therej for if it had been known
as an old practice, the particular designation of the prize court
would have been unnecessary, and the prohibition would have been
required to the admiralty gcnerally, as it ever had been in former
cases.
"Acting, as we now do, in a national, and not a dependent capa.
oity, I cannot conceive that we -are bound tu follow the practice in
England, more than that of our own or anyother ,ation. Customs
purely colonial, were parts of our laws, even in the time of our
connection with Britain. I need instance only one, viz. that of the
mode of conveyance offeme.cverW estates, contrary t, the laws
of England. This is a case at common law, in which we then were
and now are particularly talled to follow their rule and practice, in
general The admiralty proceeds by a law which considers all
nations as one community, and should not be tied down to the pre.
cedent of one nation, though it were more clearly ascertained, I
shall, therefore, conclude, that if the powers of an admiraltyand
maritime court are delee-ated by congress to this court, those of a
prize court are mixed in the mass of authority with which it Is in.
vested, and require no particular specification. They are called
forth (if generally delegated) by the occasion, and not by repeated
and new interferences of goverment. Nor do I believe that even
in -nglnd, any new authority is vested, though a kind of Irgal
and solemn notice is given of a war, in which subjects for the prize
authority of the admiralty -may occur. It does not begin with their
wars, hut was pre-existent. It does not end with the commence,
ment of peace, for their books show it to be exercised at any time
afterwards. Government never interferes to put an end to it; houn
then can its power he repeatedly necessary to begin it I The rdct
" , it is inherent in a court of admiralty, and not lost, but torpid,
like other authorities of the court, when there are no occasions for
their exercise.
" But here the question arises, have congress, by theirjudiciary
laws, vested this court with general or r8ecial admiralty piwers ?
Congress have authority (delegated by the people in the constitu.
zion) in 11all cases of admiralty and naritime jurisdiction." The
words of that part of the judiciary law affcting this sub.ject, in
whiph the authorities of the court are described will be seen in the
9th ection of thaf law. " It shall also have exclusive original
cognizance of all civil caure: of admiralty and maritimejuritdicicn,
including. seizures under laws of impost, navigation, or trade
uf th; United States." It is said prize or no prize is a question of
Vol. IV..
B

Jzviuo-asn
v.
CAuson.

S

SUPREME COURT U. S.

J,tWWZNGshave been filed in the diiirict court of New-yersey, but

V,

not to make the decision of the judge on th't point a

s...

ground of excepting to the jurisdiction of the district

...

court of Pennsylvania, and that costs should await the
event of the cause.
But I find no such distinction in the
bopoks. Blackstone, in.his division of courts, does n6Y class that
of the admiralty as a military, but a maritime court, and it will
appear that the jurisdtion of' Orize is within its powers, though
lie points oUt, in cases of prizes in the then colonies, Jthat appeas
were to members of the privy council, and otherst, in consequenco
of treaties and domestic arrangements. But he says " the original
court to wlhich this qttestion is permitted in England, is the court
of admiralty, ' without any distinction as to the natureof its powers,
wLhetler instance or priie, military or civil. In Booko3. P. 108. ho
mentions the exclusive and undisturbed jurisdiction of the courts of
admniralty, in'cases of prize; and that court determines, not aocording to British law: or practice, but "according to the law of
nations." Shotd I confine my attention merely to the inquiry
.whether this could be classed un~er the des~iption of a 'civil
cause," I shoultl think there, were grounds to support the idea of
its being comprehended. In the case of Acheson'& Ererett, (Cowp.
382.) some light is thrown on this view-Df the subject, because it
appear- that a civil suit may, in substance, but not in form, partake
of'criui.'nal ingredients. So, by parity of reason, -may a civil cause
of. admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, be mixed with, or grounded on, transaqtions of a militarynature. 'But I do not think it necessary merely to fix this point.. What is, perhaps, of most con.
seqtienc.e, is to ascertain the intention of congress in distributing
a power, clearly in .14cm, to their judiciary departments, And
what was said by one of the advocates for the libellAnt, strikes me
as 6eingjust and proper, viz. that the construction should be mado
from a consideration of all the laws on the subject, its parJ matera,
" The court shall also have exchsi'e original cognizance of all
civil causes of admiralty and maritinie jurisdiction, including,"
&c -that is, being invested with criminal powers in certatin cases,
it shall alto have civil poiers, as opposed to criminal, in admiralty
and maritime cases. By recurring to the 12th, 13th, 19th, 21st,
and 30th sections of the judiciary law, it will appear that congress
(and in' the words of the constitumeant to convey all the powers,
tion,) as they possessed them in admiralty cases ; and actions or
suits in these cases can originate only in the district court.
,nilitary, not of a civil nature.

"For the foregoing reasons, and some others which might be added, I am of opinion that this court possesses all the powter* of a
court of admiralty, and that the question of prize is cognizable before it. lh ave gne thus far itlto the discussion of this point, b6cause I believe it is the firL. time it has been agitated in a federal
court.
" I do, therefoe, decree, adjudge anh] determine, that the plca
to the jurisdiction of the court, as nit being competent to deter,
mine on prize questions, -be, and the same is hereby overruled."

FEBRUARY,- 1807.

9

Upon the second hearing of the cause, on the 2d of Jn.ros
V.
April, 1802, the judge decreed in favour of the libellant, for the amount of sales of the sloop and cargo, C
reduced by the scale of depreciation, with interest until
two months-after the order of. restitution by the court
of appeals; and from the time of the institution of the
.present suit until the day of final decree ; ,which decree
was, on the 10th of May, 1804, reversed by the circui;
court, and the libel dismissed with costs.--From which
sentence, the lib;lant appealed to this court.
.B. Tudghman, for appellant.
No delay can be imputed to the appellant. There
was no limitation by law. The federal court of appeals
was unpopular in those states who were attached to the
trial by jury, and itsjurisdiction was opposed with great
warmth; He cited the case of the sloop Active, and
Mr. Olmstead's dise, and an act of the legislature, of
Pennsylvania in support of that assertion. The jurisdiction of that court was not finally settled, until the
case of Doane & Penhallow, 3 Dallas, 54. 85, 86.
He consicfered the case under six heads.
1. That if the appellant was entitled to redress, he
was right in applying to the district cour.t of Pennsylvania, anAd was not obliged to resort to that 6f NeroYerse ,
2. That if his suit was rightly commenced in the
district court of Penntsylvania, that couit had authority
to decide finally on the case.
3.That the' district court has jurisdiction of the
question of prize.
.4. That, if the appellant is entitled to redress, his
remedy survives against the executors of Carson.
5. That it is immaterial whether there was or was

not probable cause for the capture.

-10

SUPREME CouRT U. S.

6. That the owners of the privateer are answerable
cV., for the acts of the captors, theii iigents.

JBNN12Gs
CARSOZT.

1. As to the first point.
One court of admiralty is competent to carry Into
effect the sentence of another; even of a foreigni court,
and afortiori of-a domestic court. Douglass, 1. Wa/her
v. Witter. 1 Vent. 32. Yurado v. Gregory. I Lev,
267. S. C.
6 Vin. 535. /..20.
1 Salk. 32. Broom's
case. Carth. 398. S. C. 2 Lord Raym, 935. Ever
v. _owes. 3 Dall. 97. and 118. Penhallow v. Doane.
2 Browne's Civ. &9Ad. Law, 120.
The sentence of the court of appeals consists of
three parts.
1st. Restitution. 2d. Costs. 3d. Ah
order to the court below to carry the sentence into effect,
The sentence was for restitution of the thing itselj,
not of its value ; nor of the amount for which it was
sold. The appellant was not obliged to take any thing
in lieu of the thing itself.
,If a judgment at common law is rendered against a
plaintiff in the circuit court, and that judgment reversed
in the suprerhe court, and a mandate issues to the cir,
cuit court to execute the judgment ofthe supreme
court, the plaintiff is not bound to take out his executiofil under the mandate, but may bring an action of
debt upon the judgment, in any district of the United
States where the defendant may be found. - So in this
case, the claimant may libel the captors in any district
where they may be found. We are n6t bound to take
the proceeds of the sale in continental money. The
reversal was on the 23d of December, in the year 1780,
when paper money was a mere ghost, and worth
nothing. It is immaterial what became of the money,
and whether it sunk in the hands of the mashal, br not.
If our cargo had been suffered to arrive, we might have
sold it so as tQ avoid the effect of depreciation.
The resolution of congress, which provides that cap;ured vessels shofild be libelled in the district into which

they should be brought, applies only to libels by the cap- JEimZG5
V.
tors against the prQperty, and not to libels by the claimant against-thecaptors. These, ex necessitate, must be
brought where the captors may be found. We cannot
now proceed in the original court of admiralty of NewJersey, for it does not exist. It was a court derivIng its
authority from the state of New-Jersey alone. By the
constitution, all admiraltypowers are now vested in the
courts ofthe United Sttes, and to those only can we poiv
apply.
2. If the suit was rightly commenced in the district
court of Pennsylvania, that court had authority to decide
finally on tle case.
The words of the decree of restitution are all powerful-" the vessel and cargo SHA LL Bs restored." We
are therefore entitled to the thing itself, or itsfullvalue.
If it be objected that the loss by depreciation is not
chargeable to the respondents, we say that it is a fundamental rule that he who does the first wrong shall be
liable-to allthe damages.
The act of the marshal was the actof the captors. His
sale, made after the appeal, was or was not regular. If
regular, the proceeds were received to the use of the
captors ; if irregular, although under the order of the
court, the captors are liable. 12 J11od. 639. Boswell v.
Prior. 5 Vin. Ab. 405. 1 Vernon, 297-307, Childerns
v. Sax by. 6 Mod. 179. Regina v. Tracy.
At common law, if the judgment be reversed after
goods sold under af.fa. the writ of restitution is to the
.plaintiff, and not to the officer; and the plaintiff must answer the value, not what they actually sold for. 2 Salk.
588. Cro. Eliz. 209. Rook v. 0ilmot. 390. Atkinson v.
.Atkinson. 11 Mod.36. Clerh v. ffithers. Vin. Ab. Tit.
Distress, 171. pl. 1,2. Bro. Ab. Distress,p1 72.
The sentence of the court of appeals is conclusive that
the capture was wrongful. It was a marine trespass.
If the sloop had been taken by the British out of the
hinds of the, captors, they would still have been liable.

12

SUPREME COURToU. S.

J-NNImis 1 Dall. 95. Talbot's Case. 3 Dall. 333. Del Cole. ArV.
nold. 3 T. R. "333. in notis, Livineston and'Welch Y.
XP'Kenzie.

3. The third point, viz. that the district courts of the
United States have jurisdiction in questions of prize, was
admitted by the opposite counsel.
4. If the libellant is entitled to redress, his remedy
survives againstthe executors of the owners of the capturing vessel.
The decree of the court of appeals is for restitution
only, and the prayer of the libellant is for general relief,
which is in all cases sufficient. 3 Dall.86, 87. 107. 118.
.Penhallow v. Doane.
It is a rule in the civil law, that if the ancestor hag appeared to the suit, the heir will be liable, and it is a maxim
in equity that the heir shall be liable, even in cases of
tort. Domat. 605. 607, 608, 609. Cowper, 37 4. 376.
I-ambly v. Trott. Grotius, b. 2. c. 21. s. 19, 20. Vinnius, 785. 787.
5. To support his fifth position, that it is immnatcriitl whether there were probable cause or not, he -relied
upon the case of Del Col v. Arnold, 3 Dal. 333.
6. That the owners of the capturing vessel are liable
for the. acts of the captors. In support of this positibn
he cited 4 Rob. Rep. 293. The'Picimento. 292. The
Venus. 1 Dall. 108. 3 Dall. 384. 3 Dal. P.nhallow
v. Doane.

Lewis, on. the same side, offered to read authorities to
show that the appeal not only suspended the sentence,
but the order to sell, unless a special power was given to
the cdurt to proceed to sell notwithstanding the appeal.
"7are,contra, contended,
1. That the district court of Pennsylvania had not jurisdiction.

. FEBRUARY, 1807.

13

2. That the case of the libellant was void of merit.
1. If the proceeding is not against the prize itself,
nor the proceeds of the sale of the prize, nor against the
persons of the captors, a prize court has no jurisdiction.
No case can be produced, where a prize court has taken'
urisdiction merely against the persons of the owners of
the capturing vessel. It is even doubted whether a
court of admiralty could entertain a suit against theproceeds in the hands of the agent of the captors. " Proceedings upon prize are proceedings in rem; and it is
presumed that the body and substance of the thing is in
the country which has to exercis" the jurisdiction."
l Rob.-Amer. Ed. 119. The FladOyen.
The jurisdiction of a court of vice-admiralty extends
only to things brought within its authority. '3 Rob. 53.
The Careland _Magdalena.
The sentence of the *court of appeals required. the
court of admiralty of New-Jersey to cauie restitution to
be made. If the former sentence in New-Jersey is complete, it is a bar to a subsequent suit. If it is not complete, but is still pending, it is equally a bar. 3 Bac. Ab.
653. Prec. Chdn. 579.
2d. As to the question of merits. Upon this subject
the case of The fentor, 1 Rob. 151-153. is in point.
'This also is an antiquated claim, and not pro.ecuted
against the actual wrong doer, but against persons who
were not present at the act complained of. Besides, there
was probable cause, and therefore no damages can be
given. 1 Rob. 82. The Betsey. The sloop had sailed
undhr a British convoy ; this was a strong ground of
suspicion, and, added to the false account of her deqtnation, her want of papers, and the destruction of papers,
was sufficient ground to excuse from damages and costs.
3 T. R. 332. Smart v. Wolf. 1 N. T. Term Rep. 64.
Yenks v. Ballet. Doug. 581. Bernardiv. Jlotteux. 1
-Mfarshall,317. The sentence of the court of admiralty
of New-Jersey is of itself conclusive evidence cf probable cause. 1 Wilson, 232. Reynolds v. Kenned!.

JZ.nTcx.s
V.

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

14
JzxXzE
V.

CARSON.

s

The sale was the act of the court, and not of th
party.
The case of sale undera distress is not analogous; it
is the act of the party alone. It is not under the judgment ofa court. The sale produced a fund to which alone
the libellant can resort. If a collateral security be given,
and if that be lost by the laches of the party, he shall
never recover.
.Fiom the date of the reversal of the decree, the marshal held the money to the use of the present libellant.
The rule of the civil law as to torts is the same with
the rule of the common law, actiopersonalismoritur cunt
persona.
The Court stopped Ingersoll, on the saihe side, and
said, that the point which it would be difficult to establish on the part of the libellant is, that he would have
been entitled to any remedy against the present appellees, even on the very day after the sentence of the court
of appeals.
Lewis, in reply.
The sentence of the court of appeals is conclusive evidence of the falsity of the original libel, and that the capture was tortiou..
That the present libellant is entitled to relief, in some
form and in some court, cannot be questioned. It is not
a case of common law jurisdiction, and there is no state
court of admiralty in- New-Jersey. If any court has
jurisdiction, it must he a district court of the United
States.
Two questions arise in the cause.
i. Is thelibel filed in the proper court ? and,
2. To what extent is the libellant entitled to relief?

PEBRUARY, 180?.

l

1. A neutral is entitled to restitution; andifthe captor will not proceed against the property in a reasonable
time, the owner may libel the captors, and pray that they
may proceed to adjudication, or restore the property.
The .captured property must be considered as in the
power and possession of the captors. The sale makes
no -difference, unless made by cogent, or because the property was perishable, or under some act of congress or
other statute law.
The British statutes require that the captured property should be taken into the custody of certain officers of
the government or of thd court, and thereby might be
considered as in the custody of the law ; but congress
had no such officers; the custody remained with the captors unil trial and acquittal or -condemnation. Resolve
of Congress of 27th ofNovember, 1774. If it had been.
a sentence of acquittal, a writ of restitution would have
issued. A mandate would have been vain, unless the
court had power to execute the sentence.
JoHNsox, J. inquired of Mr. Lewis whether in his
practice he had known any instance in which, upon filing
a libel, a warrant has not issued to take the captured
properiy into the custody of th6 marshal.
MARSnALL, Ch. J, It is certainly important to ascertain in whose custody the property 'was. I had all
along considered it as in the custody of the law.

Levzs. I have had an opportuhity of knowing a great
deal of the aamiralty practice during our revolutionary
war, being concerned in all the cases in Pennsylvania,
and in all the appeals from the state courts. I do not
know an instance in which such a warrant has issued.
But the records of the court of appeals are in the office
of the clerk of this court. In this very case there was
no such warrant.
LIVirGSTON, J; It appears that the sale was made
by the marshal uiider the order of the court. Must we
not presume that the cburt knew and did its duty; and
that the goods Were in a perishing condition ?

VoL IV.

C

Jmazxuzs
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
JEX,, Ws
V.

Lewis. If the general practice was not to, issue such
a warrant, but to suffer-the property to 'remain in the
hands of the captors, and no warrant appears in this record, which ought to be presumed to contain all the
proceedings in the case, the presumption is that no such
warrant ever was issued; especially if such warrant was
not rendered necessary by the law.
There was no writ or warrant of sale from the court,
to the marshal. The order of sale is embodied in the
final decree itself. It was made before the appeal, and
while the court had the power to make such an order.
But the appeal suspended both the power to condemn
and the power to sell. The appeal 'suspends the sentence as to every parpose whatsoever, unless the. power
of.sale lifter appeal be given by express law, or unless the
goods are in a perishiii- condition.
The law of New-Jersey which constituted the court,
does not relate to the. case of appeal, and the act of I 8th/
,December, 1.781, Was made to remedy this defect, but
that was made three years after the sale. In 2 Roll. Ab.
233. 1. it is said, that " if, after sentence, the party ap-'
peal, the sentence is altogethersuspended during th6 appeal." And Wood, in his Institutes,p. 525. says, "All
acts done after the appeal, in prejudice of the appellant,
are to be rdversed. '" In 2 Browne's Civil Law, 437. it
is said that an appeal #pudacta may be necessary to prevent the instant intermeddling of the adversary.
The same law is laid down by Coke, 4 Inst. 340. Sir
Thomas Parker's Rep. 70. Foster v. Cochburn, where
upon argument and great deliberation the court of exchequer decided, that their power to order a sale of the
goods seized was suspended by a writ of error, itnot being. sufficiently proved that they were nerishable.
. Before trial and condemnation, perishable articles may
be sold, but in no other case, unless the power be given
by statute law. 2 Browne's Civil Law, 227. 229. 4.46.
450. A special power to sell, notwithstanding an appeal, is given by the British prize acts ; but no such
power was given to the admiralty court of New-Jersey.

FEBRUARY, 1807.

17

either by the law of that state or the act of congress. 2 Jnxxnzas
Y.
Browne'* Civil Law, 231. 454. If the property was ifi
tle custody of Carson, he was bound by the sentence of ,,.
t.
restitution.
As io ihe question whether the libellant has any remedy against the executors of the owners of the privateer,
we say that we claim merely restitution in specie, or of
the value ; we claim no damages for the tort.

CHAsE, J. This is a lilel grounded upon the original wrong, The proceedings of the court of admiralty
of New-Jersey, and of the continental court of appeals,
are brought in only as an exhibit. There is no new relief prayed for.
Lewis. There is a supplemental libel, and- the first
lMbel prays for general relief. It is the same r ayer as
in the case of Penzallow v. Doane. The case in Cowper,
74. shows that the remedy extends to executors, where
the estate of the testator has been benefited" by the tort.
The case of Penhallow v. Doane is against the executois
of the owner. The libel in the present case was drawn
from, that precedent.
MARSA.ALL, Ch. J.

The objection is that the libel

does not charge that, the property has not been restored ;
nor that it has not been proceeded against ; nor that the
sentence of the court of appeals has not been carried into
effect.
If these'allegations had been made in the bill, and
there- had been a prayer for general relief, your argu-

ment would be pertinent. But the libel complains only
of the original tortious capture, and claims damages.
There is no legation that the property was destroyed,
or thata wrongful sale had been made.

LIVINOSTON, J.

It is strange that the case of Petnhal-

low v. Doane should be cited by the appellant.

Thede-

cision in that case is directly against him. The court
there gave- relief only for the property which actually
came to the hands of the respondents.

1
JxNINOB
CA.N

SUPREME COURT U. S.

"lMARsTrIAL, Ch. J. observed, that in the case cited
from Cowper, the property had come to the hands of the
executor. The law of that case is not denied by this
court.
Lewis. This court is sitting as a court of admiralty
proceeding according to the law of nations. No irregularity of form ought to prevent us from obtaining relief
according to the case we make out.
As to the question whether thedistrict court of Penn,
sylvania had cognizance ; heobserved,
That if the property had been carried first to NewJersey and then to Pennsylvania, ihe libel would have
been proper in Pennsylvania. So where the libel is
sgainstthe person, and he is found in Pennsylvania, the
libe" must be filed there. The only remedy of the libellant is in the courts of the Uniited States, and the federal district court of New-Jersey is as foreign to the state
court of New-Jersey, as the federal district court of
Pennsylvania.
Carson was bound by the decree of the court of ap4
peals ; and courts of admiralty proceeding according to
We law of nations will aid each other in the execution of
their sentences. Carson died bound by the decree, and
his executors are therefore bound. As they lived in
Pennsylvania, we could only sue them there.
As to the extent of the relief, he observed, that the
sentence was for restitution ; and as that sentence was
passed with the knowledge that a sale had been made,
he inferred that the court of appeals did not intend that
the proceeds of the sale only should be paid over, but
that there should be an actual restitution of tho thing it,
self, or of its actual value. It is no answer to say that
such is the usual form of decree in case's where a sale has
beer made, because those are precedents where the sale
hai been lawfully made ; but here it was unlawful.
Dallas, on the same side.

PEBRUARY, 180't.

t

The real'question is, who shall bear the loss of the de- Jittwnma
V.
prediation- of the money; and this -depends upon the
question in whose possession was the property at the
time of the decree of restitution.
The clairhant did no act, -and was guilty of..no omission which could make 'that loss fall upon him I but it
was a loss produced by the tortious act of' the captord,
and they are in law an§werable for all the consequencei.
In England, formerly, all captures were considered
as made for the crown. It was only in consequence-of
the prize acts and proclamations, that the property was
adjudged-to the captors. But it is now settled fhat the
property vests ip, the captors immediately upon the capture ; 5 Rob.* and the resolves of thi old congress take
for granted the same principle. By the law of nations
the property is changed by the capture, and the owner
'has no, further power over it. The claimant is really
and substantially a defendant through all the forms of
proceeding, as well in the original suit as inthe present.
There was no assent, on his part, to the sale-no acq'uiescence in any act oftlecourt, or of the marshA.l. The
decree of restitution supposes and implies that the property remained in the hands of the captors. The order
for sale was made to carry into effect the decree of condemnation, and for the purpose of distribution,, not for
the preservation of the property, nor to hold it in custody of the law. No security was given by the captors or
by the marshal. No public notice was given of the sale;
no such notice was required by the order of sale. The
sale was made thirteen days after the order was sus
pended by the appeal, and the captor was the purchaser.
"1lie case was before the court of appeals upon its particular circumstances, as well as' upon iti general merits;
aid the fact of the sale after the appeal must have been
known to the court. Two years had elapsed since the
original sentence. A restitution of the thihg itself was
impossible; and the form of the decree of reversal must
have been a matter in question. If' the sale had been
regulaily and lawfully made, the court of appeals would
The case of the .Eke*, 5 .Rob. 173. ceems ctrq&

SUPJEME COURT. U. S.
7J4t9rids
VA.
o"

•AI .

have taken nttice of it, .and have decreed restoration of
the prdceeds of the. sale., .3 Dal. 102. 115. 119.
P(nz
kallow v..Doane. Itwas a fact of which the captor
might have availedhiinself before that court.

But-the marshal is to be considered merely as the agent
of.the captor.,
The claimant had nb remedy but against the person
of
the captor. There is no evidence that the proceeds of
the sale- re any-where to be found.
The original libel did -not ask for process to arrest the
vessel, but merely prayed for condemnation. "The possession, and the right of possession, were in the captor.
There was no process to attach the vessel. The first
process wasa monition and venire for the jury. The mar.
shal could have no-right to possession, unless by virtue
of process of attachment. There is no orderin the whole
proceedings which takes the possession from the captor.'
"fterthe uppeal the order of sale was a nullity, and the
sale by the t'aarshal was as the agent of the captoi,' who
Was a trustee for the claimant, und had no.right tP sell;
and ist therefore, liable for all the consequences.
February 11.
MARSHALL,
court.

Ch.

J.

delivered the 'opinion of the

The prialteer Addition, cruising under a commission
granted by-.the congress of these United States during

the war between this country and Great Britain, captured
the sloop George, brought her into port, and libelled her
in the court of admiralty for the state of New-Jersey,
where she was condemned as lawful prize by a sentence
renderefd 6R the $1st of October 1778, and ordered to
bosoldby themrnarshal. From, this sentence Richard D,
Jtnniga the owner, prayed an appeal, which, on the
23d of lDece(Aber, 1780, came on to be heard Ibefore the
-court of appeals constituted by congress, when the sen,
tence -of the court of Jersey' was reversed, and restitution of the vessel and cargo was awarded. Pending the
appeal, on the 13th of November, 1778, the 6rder of sals

FEBRUARY, 180T.
war executed, and the proceeds of sale remaitnedirtpoo- Jlz2;uzx
v
session of the marshal. It does not appear that any applicatioa was ever made to the court of New-Jersey to
have execution of the-decree of the court of appeals, and,
this suit is brought to carry it int6 execution, or.on some
other principle to recover from the estate of Joseph'Carson,-who'was part owner of the privateer Addition, the
value of the George and her-cargo.
So far as this bill seeks to carry into effect the decree
of the 23d of Deceinber, 1780, there is no doubt of the.
jurisdiction of the court; but.the relief granted can only
be commensurate with that decree. It is therefore all
essential to the merits of this cause to inquire how far
Joseph Carson, the'testator of the defendants, was bound
by the sentence which this court is asked to carry into
effect.
The words under which the plaintiffs claim are those
which direct the restoration of the George and her cargo.
A the captors are not ordered by nameto effect this
restoration, and as the order bound those in possessioll
9f the subject on whibh it must be construed to operate,
it must be considered as affecting those who could obey.
it, not those who were not in possession of the thing to
be restored, had no power over it and were, conseqitently, unable to redeliver it. Had Richard D. Jennings
appeared before the. court of New-Jersey with this decree in his hand, and demanded its execution, the pioceas.
of that court would -havebeen directed to those who po3sessed the thing to be restored, not to those who held no
poweroverit, either in point of fact or law.
This position appears too plain to-require she aid of
precedent, but if such aid should -be looked f6r; the case
of Doane v. Penhallow unquestiqnahly affords it. In
hat case a decree of reversal and restitution was satisfled by directing the proceeds of the, sales to be paid ;.
and even the judge who tried the cause at- the circuit
concurred with his brethren in reversing his own judgment, so far as it had decreed.joint damages, and had
thereby rendered. the defendant liable for more than he
had received. "thecase of Doane v. Penhallow therefore; which must be considered as expounding the de-

- SUPREME COURT UL.S.
JzMOos
CAflSoN.
"

cree of the court of apprals now under consideratiob, has
decided that Joseph Carson was bound to effect restitution by that decree so far only as he was, either in law or
in fact, possessed of the G ebrge and her cargo, or of the
pr9ceeds.
To this point, therefore, the inquiries of the court
will be directed.
In prosecuting them it will be necessary to ascertain
whether,"
1st. The George and her cargo were, previous to the
sentence, in the custody of the law, or of the captom.
Fd. Whether the court of admiralty, after an appeal
from theirsentence, possessed the power to sell the 'vessel and cargo, and to hold the proceeds for the bencfit of
those having the 'right.

' It appears that the court of New-Jersey, which condemned the George and her cargo as prize, was established in pursuance of the recommendation of congress,
and that no legislative act had prescribed its practice or
defined'its powers. The act produced in court was-passed at a subsequent period, and consequently cannot govern the case. But the court cannot admit the correctness of the argument drawn from this act by the counsel
for the llaintiffs in error. It cannot be admitted that an
act defining the powersand regulating the practice of a
pre-existing court, contains provisions altogether new.
The reverse of this-proposition is generally true. Such
an act may rather be expected to be confirmatory'of thq
practicie and of the powers really ex~rcised.
Since we find a court instituted and proceeding to act
as a court, without a law defining its practice or its
powers, we must suppose it to have exercised its powers
in such mode as is employed by other courts instituted
for the object,.and as is consonant to the' general.principles on which it.must act.
That by the practice of courts 'of admiralty a vessel
when libelfed is placed under the absolute controul of the

-

PEBRUARY, iO'.

3

court, is not controverted ; but the plaintiffs contend
that this power over the subject. is not inherent In a
court of admiralty, but 1s given by statute, and in support
of this dpinion the prize acts of Great Britain have been
referred to, which unquestionably contain regulations on
this point. But the court is not of opinion that those
acts confer entirely new powers on the courts whose
practice they regulate. In Browne's Civil and Admiralty
Law,in his chapter on the jurisdicti6n bf the prize courts,
it is ezpressly stated that those courts exercised their ju7isdiction anterior to the prize acts, and the same opimoA
is expressed by Lord Mlansfield, in the case of Lindo v.
Rodney, which is cited by Browne. The prize acts, therefore, mosf probably regulated pre-existing powers in the
manner best adapted tothe actual circumstances of the
time.
It is conceived that the constitution and character of
a court of admiralty, and the object it is to effect, will
throw in' ch light ou this-subject.
' 'The -proceedings of that court are in rein, and their
sentences act on the thing itself. They decide who has
the r-ight, and they order its delivery to the party having
the right. The libellant and the claimaht are bothactors.
They both de nand from the court the thing in contest.
Itwould be repugnant t6 the principles ofjustice and tothe practice of courts to leave the,thing in possess.ion of
either of the parties, Without security, while the cotitest
is depending. If the practice, of a court of admiralty
should not place the thing in the custody of its officers,
it would be essential to justice that security should Ere
demanded of the libellant to have it forthcoming tuanawer the order of the court.
Ifthe captor should fail tQ libel the aptured vessel,
it has been truly stated in argument that the owner may
claim her in the court of admiralty. How excessively
defective would be the practice of that court, if, on receiving such a claini, it neither took possession of the
vessel, nor recuired security that its sentencd should be
performed. Between the rights of.a claimant where a
libel is filed and where it is not filed, no distinction is perr
Vol. IV.
D

z1=n?!2rs

v.

.

24

JnEa1ons
"
CASO=.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

ceived, and the court conceives the' iecessary result of
proceedings id"remi to be that the thing in litigation must
be placed in the custody of the lhw, and cAnnot be delivered to either party but on sufficient-security.
In conformity with this opinion is the prqctice 6f the
court of admiralty, not only when sitting for the trial of
prizes, and acting in conformity with the directions of
positiye law, but ivhen sitting as an instance court, and
conforming to the original principles 'of a court of admiralty. In his chapter "on the practice of the instance
court,",under thetitle of "proceedings in rem," p. 397.
Browne states explicitly, that when the proceedihg is
against a ship, the processcommences with a warr2ntdireating the a'rrest of the ship. In Browne, 405. the course
of proceedings against a ship, not for a debt, but tb obtain possession, is stated at length, and in that case too
the-court takes possession of the shiv.
It must be supposed that a dourt of admiralty, having
prize jurisdition, and consequently proceeding in rem,
and not having its pracice precisely regulated by law,
would conform to those principles which usually govern
courts proceeding in rem, and which- seem necessarily to
belong to the proper exercise of their functions. If in
proceedihg against a ship to subject her to the payment
of a debt, or to acquire the possession of her on account
of tide, the regular course is that the court takes the vessel into custody and holds her for the party having right,
the- conclusion seems irresistible, that in proceeding
against a ship to conde'mn her as prize to the captor, ot
to restore her to the owner who has been ousted of his
possession, the dourt will also take the vessel into custody, and hold her for the party having the right.
This reasoning is illustrated, and its correctness in a
great measure confirmed, by the legislation of the United States, and the judicial progeedings of otur own country. By the. judicial act the district courts are also
€ourts of admiralty, and no law has regulated their practice. Yet they proceed according to the general rules
of the admiralty, and a vessel libelled is always in possession of the law.

FEBRUARY, 1807.

25

Anobjeetion, however, to the application oi this teasoning to the case before the court is drawn -from the
defectiveness of the record iii'the original cause, which
does not exhibit a warrait to 'the officer to arrest the
George. The first step which appears to have been taken
by the court is an order to the marshal to summon ajury
for the trial of the case.
The carelessness with which the papers of a court
created for the purposes of the war, and which.ceised
to exist before the institution of this suit, have been
kept, may perhaps account for this circumstance. At
any rate the court of admiralty must be presumed to
have done. its duty,'and to have been in piossession of the
thing in contest, if its duty required that possession. The
proceedings furnish reasons for cqnsidering this as the
fact.
The'libel does not state the George to have remained in possession of the captors, that the sale was made
for them. or by-their means, nor that the proceeds cme
to their hands. The answer of the defendants avers
that on bringing the George into port, she was delivered
up with all her papers to the court of admiralty, -and,
although the answer is not testimony in this respect, yest
the nature of the transaction furnishes. ample -reason to
believe that this'was the fact; apd it is 1he duty of the
plaintiff to show that the defendants. are in a situation to
be liable to his.claini. If the process of the court of
admiralty' does not appear regular, this court-, not sitting
to reverse or affirm their judgment, but to carry a dedree
of reversal and-restoration into effect, must suppose the
property to be in the hands of those in whom th law
,places it, unless the contrary appears. The Georgeand
lier cargo, therefore, must he considered as being in custody of the law, unless the contrary appears.
If this conclusion be right, it follows that the regularity of the sale is a question of no importance to the defendants, since that sale was the act of.a court having legal possession of the thing, and acting on its own anthoritv.

jz.zz1s
V. .
CAUO.

•*26

SUPREME COUllT U. S.

If ttie teasoning be incorrect, it then becowdd necessary to inquire,

JaYKnNoS
T.

2d; Whether the court of NewJersey,

after an qfped1

from its sentence, possessed the power of sllng the.
"George and her cargo, and holding the proceeds for the
party having the right.

-

:That. the British courts possess this power is admitbd, lut the-plaintiffs contend that'it is conferred by statute, and is not incident to a'prize tour"
That the power exists while the cause is depending in
court seems'not to b'e denipd, and indeed may be proved
Jby the same authority and the same etrain of reasoning
which has already been used to show the right to take

possession of the thing whenever proceedings are in rcma
Browne, in his chapter on the practice of the instance

court, shows its regular course td be todecree a dale
where the goods are in a perishable condition.

The plaintiffs allege that this power to deerde a Wnle
is founded on ,the posscssion of the cause, but the court
in-iperceive no groundffor such an opinion. It is sup.,
ported by no principle of andlogy, and is repugnant to
the reason and nature of the thing,.
In cases only where the subject itself is in possesgion
.of the court, is the order of sale made, If it be delivered on security to either party, an order of sale pendihfb
the caus, is unheard of in admiralty proceedings. The
motive assigued for the order never isithat the court is
in-possession of the, cquse, but that the property in posz
sessiqn of the court is in a perishable state. A right to
order a sale is for the benefit of all parties, tot becaUs6
the case is depending ii that particular court, but because ihe thing may perish while in its custody, and
while neithdr party can enjoy its use.
If then the principle on which the power of the court to
ordera sple depends, ig not that the cause is depending in
court, buttlat perishable property is in its possession, thlis
-principle exists in as much force after as before an appeal.
.The property does not follow the appeal into the superior

. EBRUARY, 1407.
court. It till. remainsj4 custody of. the officer of that
court in which it was~libelled, The case of its preseriation is not altered by the appeal. -The duty to prtseive
it is still the same, and it would seem reaspnab)k that the
power consequent on that duty woigd be also xrtained.
On the principles of reason, therefore, the court is satisfied that the tribunal whose officer retains pobsession
of, the thing retains he powvr of selling it when in a
perishing condition, although the qause ma be carried by
appeal to a superioy court. "T1hi opinion is not unsupported by authority.

In his chapter on -tle practice o the instance court,
-page 405. Brojgne says, 1" If tht; ship, or goods are in a
,tate.6f decay, or ofa perishablenaturt-, the cour~is used,
during thd pendency of a suits or sometimes after sen.
tence, notwithstanding an appeal, to issue a commissiot,
of appraisement and sale, the money to be lodged with

the registrar of the qourt, in usunjtts habenti,."
SThis practice does .not., appear to be established by
statte, but to b incident to the jurisdiction of the court,

and to grow out of the principles which form its law. A
pri~zecourt not-regulated by particular statute would pro,
ceed 9n the same priqciple4-at least there is the same
reason'for it.
.. But there .is in this, case no distinct order 9f sale. The
order is -a part.of the sentenqe from -which an appeal was
prayed, ,and is therefore- said to be suspended with the
residue:of-0aat sentence.
The proceedings of the cburt of admiralty, if they ire
ll before this cpur. were c~rtainly very irregular, and
much of thedifficulty o thia.ase arises from that cause;
but as thisc ase stands,-, it .wotila seem entirely unjut to
decree the defenidant-.to pay a:heavy sum of money, because the.court, of admiralty has done iriegularly that
which it had an unqtestionable right to -do-.
Since the court of 4dmiralty possessed the power of
making a distinct order of sale immediately after the appeal.was.entered, and this, but for the depreciation, wiule

Jr-=xnuzs

v

SUPRE ME CO1RT U. S.
Jz2;NNGs
V.
.

have been desirable by all, it is not unreasonable to suppose the practice to have been to consider the appeal as
made from the condemnation, and not from the order of
sale. The manner in which this appeal was entered af-

fords some couintenance to this opinion. In the recital
of the matter appealed from, the condemnation alone,
not the order of sale,'is stated.
The court will not consider this irregularity of the admiralty, in ordering.what was within its power, as chargii~g the owiers of -the privateer, under the decree of the
23d of December, 1780, with.the amount of the sales of
the George and hd" cargo, which in point of fact never
came to their hands, arid over which they never possesscd a legal controul, for the marshal states himself
to hold the net pr6ceeds to the credit of the former
owners.
It is therefore the- unahimous opinion of this court
that the decree of the .23d of December, 1780, does not
require that the restoration and redelivery which it orders should be effected by the captors, but by those who
in point of iaw and fact were in possession either of the
George and her cargo, or of the money for which they
were sold. A6 the officer of the court of New-jersey,
not thi captors, held this possession, the decree operates
upon him, not upon them.
On that piart of the libel in this case which may be
considered ns supplemental, and as asking relief in addition to that which was given'by thd dcree of the 23d of
December, 1780, the court deems it- nebessary to-make
very few obseryations.
but pL
The wh6le argument in favour of this part of the claim
is founded on the idea that the captors were wrong doers,
and are responsible for all tbe'loss which has been produced by their tortious act. The sentence of reVersal and
restoration is considered by the plaintiffs as conclusive
evidence that they were wrong doers.
But the court can by no meane assent to this principle. A belligerent cruizer who with probable cause
sdizes a neutral and takes her into port for aajudipcation,

FEBRUARY,. 1807.

29

and proctedsregularly, is not a rongdoer, The actis
ndt tortious. The order of restoration proves that the
property was neutral, not that it was taken without probable cause. Indeed, the decree of the court of appeals
is in this-respect in favour bf the captors, since it does
not award damaged for the capture and detention, nor
give costs in the suit below.

Jznmzzes

If we pass by the decree, and examine the testimony
on which it was founded, we cannot hesitatd to admit
that there was justifiable cause to seize and libel the
vessel
Upon the whole case then, the court is unaninmously
of opinion that the decree of the circuit court ought to be
afirmed.
Sentence affirmed.

RHINELANDER v. THE INSURANCE COMPAXY RUU,ELA1.-

OF PENN4SYLVANIA.

Dz

v*

I,. Co. oF
PZZ.Z1SYLVA22A.

THIS was a case certified from the circuit c'ourt for
The district of-Pennsylvania, in which the opinions of
the judges of that court were opposed to each other
upon the question, whether the plaintiff was entitled to
recover upon a case stited, the materiar facts of which
were as follow:

A capt
of a r.eutrd
a prize by 2
tote lossndl
is a

entitles the
insured to

abandon.

The defendants insured 12,500 dollars, on thefrglt
of the plaintiff's Americon ship The-ifanhattan, which
had been chartered by ,Afhturn & Champlin, for a
voyage from N42Tqrh to Batavia, and bach to NewTor.k. The freight was valued in thcpolic at 50,000
dollars. -The charter-party contained a covenant that
if any dispute should arLe between the phint!! and
Minturn & C/t'.tnizmn respecting the freight, the.cargo
should not be deiained by the plaintifF,provided they

The state of

the
loss at th
time cf t e
o.e to abanfi'xe
the

rights of the
reso.

