FEBRUARY,

180.
ALEXM:11DER

ALEXANDER v. HARRIS, BAILIFF OF
CRAMMOND.

V.
Ilnoia

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of ColumAn averment of a debia, sitting at Alexandria, 'in an action of replevin.
mise for threc
years, is' not
Avowry by the defendant, stating that Crammond supported by
was seised in fee of the locus in quo, and demised the ploaf of a
same to the plaintiff for the te'rm of three years, at a lease for one
year certain,
certain rent, and that because 111 dollars and 67 cents and twoyears
of the rent were in arrear and unpaid," he acknowledged further posthe taking as bailiff of Crammond; &c. and prays judg- session on the
same terms
ment far double rent.
by consent of
the landlord.

Tile plea of
Plea---ought not to avow, &c. because he says that the
said sum of lII dollars and 67 cents; of the rent afore- " rent arrest,
admits the
said, at the time *hen &c. was not in arrear and un- demise as laid
paid to the said' W. Crammondr, nor was any part there- in the avowry.
of in arrear, &c. and this he prays may be inquired ofThe ourtigie
judgment far
by the country, &c.
do ube ren.t
On the trial the defendant produced a letter from the under the staplaintiff; to the defendant's agent, agreeing to take the tute of Virhouse for one year, at the rent of 120 dollars, payable r
half yearly, and proved by witnesses that the plaintiff
took the housp upon the terms mentioned in the lettetr,
and remainedin possession three years; that at the end
of the first year no new express agreement was made,
but the plaintiff -continued in possession with the consent
of the defendant's agent. Thie letter did not contain any
agreement for renewing the lease at the end of the term
by consent of the parties ; whereupon, at the prayer of
the defendant, the court below instructed the jury that if
they believed from the evidente, that the plaintiff took
the house for one year, by his letter, and afterwards,
with the consent of the defendant's agent continued to
hold the -houie for two years longer under the letter, and
without any new agreement, then the defendant is entitled
to recover on his avowry ; but that if the terms of the letter were relinquished, and a new agreement made for.
the two yearst the avowry was not supported Iy the evidence.

300
ALzxANDiR

V.

,

SUP REME COURT U. 8.

Th6 plaintiff also produced to the court, after the ver-

dict was rendered for the rent, in arreir as statedin the
avowry, the replevin bond given by the plaintiff, as evidence to satisfy the court, that the defendant had distrained for more rent than he had avowed for, and more
than the jury had found in arrcar, and objected to the
rendition.ofjudgment for double reint tuder the statute.
But the court overruled thd objection, and rendered
judgment for double the rent found in arrear by the verdict.
To which opinions of the court tme plaintiff excepted,
and the verdict and judgment being against him, he
brought his writ of error.

E. .f Lee, ior-the plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That it was necessary that the landloid, on the
issue of no rent qrrear, should prove his title iq fee, according to the averment in the avbwry.
2. That ne should prove the demise as laid; and that
the evidence in the present case did hot prove the demise
stated in the avowry, and
3. That the landlord was not entitled to double redt,
because it appeared by the penalty of tbe replevin bond
given by the tenant, which was more than double th
rent avowed for, that the landlord had distrained for
more rent than was actually due. In support of these
points he cited Esp. N. P. 358. DoUg. 640. Bristow v.
Wrikht, and the

irginiaLaws, New Rev. Code, 155.

MFiort and 2 oungs, contra.

A lease for a year, and so from ,year to year, if the
tenant occupies for three years, may be laid as a demise
for three years. 1 T. R. 378. Birch yt. Wright , 4
Bae. Ab. 182.

The bill of-exceptions does not state that it contains
the whole evidence offered at the trial.
The replevin bond was the act of the plaintiff himself,
and he might gratuitously give a bond in a larger penalty

EBRUARY, i80.

301

than the law requires. The act of assembly says it shall
be at least in double the amount of the rent.distrained
for, but does not say it shall not be in a greater sum.
Besides the bond does not appear- in the record.
The plaintiff's plea to the avowry does not deny the
avowant's tide, nor the demise. It is simply the plea of
no rent arrear, which admits the title and the demise,
as laid in the avowry. By taking issue upon the rent
arrear, the plea' admits every other allegation in the
avowry of the defendant. But if it does not, it is not
competent for the tenant who has enjoyed the land, to
dispute the title under which, he held. In ejectment
possession alone is a good title against all but the rightful owner. If the plaintiff would deny the demise as laid,
he must plead non-tenure. 4 Bac. Ab. 8. 55. 64. 67.
71. 87. 104. 10 Finer, 486.
E. 7. Lee,'in reply.
If the defedidant was not"owner of the land, no rent
was in arrear to him. The avowant must prove his case
as laid. The case of Birch v. fVright is not like this,
and the opinion of Judge Buller is extrajudicial.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The only doubt is, whether the
plea of no rent arrear, admits the demise as laid in the
avowry.

E. 7. Lee. Nqothing in arrear, is the general issue
in an action of debt for rent; and like the pleas, nil-debet,
non detinet, and not guilty, puts the a-owant upon the
proof of his whole case. Co'wp. 588. Worner v. Theobald.' Buller's N. P. 302.
.M2arch2.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J."delvered the opinion of the cot

as follows, viz.
In this case two errors are alleged by the 'plaintiff in
error.
1st. That tle. circuit coort misdirected the jury

ALxAz.DZ1

H A'.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ALEXANDER

V.

HARRIS.

2d. That judgmeht for double damages ought not to
have bcen rendered on the verdict.
1. The avowry, which sets forth the title under which
the distress was made, states a lease for three years
certain. The plea to this avowry was "nbthing in arrear," and on this plea issue war joined, At tho trial
-of the cause, the aVowant gave in evidence a lease for
one year certain, and a subsequent possession for two
years. On motibn to instruct the jury that this lease
did not sdpport the avowrv, the court said; that if the
jury should be of opinion that the subsequent possession was under the original contract, and N{,ithout any
new agreement, then the avow;ant was entitled to recover, otherwise not.. The jury found a verdict for the
avowant.
The lease stated in the avowry is obviously a different
lease from that which was given in evidence. A lease
for three years is not a lease for one year. But it is
contended that- a subsequent possession, without any
new express agreement, amounts to an extension of the
original lease, and for this Bacon's Abridgment, and a
dictum of Yudge Buller, in the case of Birch v.. Wright,
I Term, 378. have been cited. But those cases do not
prove the point they were supposed to establish. In
those cases, the original terms of the lease admit of the
extension which was afterwards made, by consent of
parties. The lease was made for one year, and afterwards fron year to year, as long as both parties should
please.
The 'principle of continuance is introduced
into the original contract, and the occupation for three
years is evidence that the circumstance had occurred,.
by force of which, the contract. should be a lease for
three years. But in this case the original contract contains no principle of continuance. It is for a limited
time, and can only be extended by a new contract, either
express or implied. The lease, therefore, offered in
evidence, does not support the avowry; But a question
on which the court has felt more difficulty, is this :
Does the plea admit the demise, or is the avowant
bound to prove it? If the plea admits the demise, then,
notwithstanding the variance, the verdict is right, nkd

FEBRUARY, 18o8.

30.

the court has not erred in that part of the opinion whlich ALzxA'rnca
is against the party taking the exception.

-The isshe gives notice to the parties of the point
which is to be tried, and which the testimony mest
support. That which is admitted by the pleadings need
not be proved. If the plea in this case controverts the
allegation in the avowry, that the tenant held under a
lease for three years, reserving the rent stated to be
ieserved, then the avowant would be bound to prove
thedmise as laid. But if the plea admits the demise,
then the avowant is not bound- to prove it. The plea
is, that- the sum distrained for of the rent aforesaid,
(that is, of the rent claimed under theleasd stated in
the avowry,) was not i arrear and unpaid, nor was
any part thereof in arrear and unpaid at the time when
the distress was made, as the avowant in his avowry
hath, alleged.
This plea avers the single proposition that the rent
was not in arrear when the distress was made, And it
is this averment alone that the part: making the distress
is to meet. Thd averment that the rent claimed in the
avownry was not in arrear when the distress was made,
admits the contract by which the reht might accrue, and
only denies, that any thing, at the time of the distress,
remained due upon that contract. Upon principle,
then, it would seem that the plea had dispensed with
proof of the dmise laid in the avowry, by admitting
No case has been found in which the point has been
expressly decided. -It is said in Buller's .tMsi' .Pus,p.
59.."-If the plaintiff plead riens arrere in 'bar to an
avovrry,, le cannot, upon such issue, .give in evidence
non-tenure ;" consequently, the defeuidant cannot be required to show the tenure : for ifit was necessary to
show it the tenant would be at liberty to prodgce opposing testimony.
It is also laid down in-Buller, p. 166. that in covenant
for non-payment of rent, riens in arrear, or payment, at
the day,' is a good plea; but riens in. arrear generally
Vol V.

Qq

V.

So4
ALEXANDER
HV.
H ARRI S .

SUPREME COURT U. S.

*iouldnot be a good plea: and the reason appears to be,
that
generally, admits the breach laid
i
h riens
~ l inr arrear
t o
in the declarationV and that the rent was iot paid on
the day. 'This principle is decided in King v. S aville,
reported by Brown/ow. Nothing.in arrear on the day
on which the refit is stated to have accrued seems to be
considered as equivalent to payment on" the day ; but
nothing in airear on a subsequent day admits that the
covenant was broken,, and consequently admits the covenant. It is not a'good plea, because it admits the
right of' the plaintiff to recover damages, This furnishes, a strong argument in favour of the opinion that
nothing in arrear on the' day when the distress was made)
admits that the rent accrued as stated in the avowry.
The case of Warner v. Theobald, Cowper, 588. was
an action of debt for rent, byan assignee against an
assignee. The plea of rens in.arrear was demurred
to, and consequently, the question to.be decided by the
court was not, what the plea admitted, but whether it
,was a bar to the action. Mi. Buller objected to this
pleai-tecause the plaintiff codld not come prepared to
know vliat it would be necessary to prove. The defendant might object to the assignment, or give in evidence payment before or after action brought.
In answer to Buler, Wood said, "1The form of the
plea i nil debet, in the present tense. But in, this case
riens in arrere'is a fairer plea than nil debet; because
nil debet puts the whole declarationin issue, whereas this
eonfnes-the yuestion to the single fact whether suci rent
was due.".
-

In giving his opinion in'support of the plea, Lord
ilfansfield certainly had not in view the question now
under consideration; for he uses expressions which
wotild apply 'Oiffereily to that questibn. He says,
" saying noihingis due is the same as if he had said nil
debet;" and immediately adds, "Besides, it is a more
faiourable plea fQr the plaintiff. He must then have
applied the first assertion solely to the sufficiency of the
plea as a bar, for it could not be a more favourable plea
for the plaintiff, if it contested the whole declaration,

FEBRUARY, 1808.
and admitted nothing, as is the case with nil debet."
He concludes with observing, " If the rent was due,
and is not at the time of the plea, it could' not have
ceased to be due but by the plaintiff's accepting it."
This caseappears to the court to decide nothing further than that the plea pleaded was a good bar to the
declaration in debt for rent, and to leave the question
how far it admits the demise laid in the avowry, open
for consideration.
It is thought important in the inquiry that the law
appropriates a different plea, which. controverts the demise, if the tenant means to contest it-Lthe plea of non
demisit.
The court is of opinion that the plea admits the demise ; and that there is no error in the instruction given
to the jury which is injurious to the party taking the exceptiQn.
In the judgment for double damages, there is no erior. The law directs it positively.

Judgment affirmed, with costs.

AL.XA.?Dr

v.

