FEBRUARY. 187.
force the execution of the obligation of the 9th of Oc- SmiLLznm'5
El'ns,
"
V
tober, 1787, or to obtain satisfaction of the judgment
at law founded thereon.
MAY's Ex'as.
" It is therefore decreed-and ordered, that the decree
of the district court rendered in the original cause be
reversed and annulled with costs; and this court doth
remand the same to the said district court for further
proceedings to be had therein, in order that an qqual
and just partition of the 2,500 acres of land mentioned
in the said assignment of the 6th of March, 1785, be
made between the legal representatives of the said
George Skillem and the said John May.
" And as to so much of the decree in the cross-suit
as enjoins 4,4i6 dollars 66 cents, phrt of the judgment
at law, this court doth affirm the same, and as to the
residue of the said decree, it is decreed and ordered,
that the same be reversed and annulled, with costs;
and this court, proceeding to give such decree in the
said cross-suit as the said district court ought to have
given, it is further decreed and ordered, that the judgment at common law mentioned in the said bill be perpetually enjoined."
-04a.-

',FRENCH'S EXECUTfIX v.THE BANK
OF COLUMBIA.

Faw:ca

V,
Co z.uxunl. .

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Colum- The ir:"e
of
p~roissobia, sitting at Washington.
ry anote
for the
accoinino4t-

This was an action of assumpsit upon the promissory. tion or the
, ennote of W. M. Duncanson, payable to George French titlt:4 to Isstrict
or order, and by him indorsed to the plaintiffs for notc't.
1,400 dollars at 60 days, dited October 10th, 1798, and if the drawof A bil of.
ei
due December 9th-l2th.
excharige.m at
the time of

On the trial at law in the cou't b'elow, the plaintiff in drawing, haz
error took a bill of exceptions which stated the following a right to ex-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
F

facts: that the banking house of the plaintiffs was situated in Georgetown, in the district of Columbia, at the
CoLUMBIA. time the note became payable ; in which town thedetestator also resided. That Duncanson, the
maker of the note, lived in the city bf Washington, four
pea that his miles distant from the Bank of Columbia. That the last
bill vill be ho- day bf grace upon the note expired with the 12thof.Denoured, he is
entitled to cember, 1798." That the defendant's -testator was very
strict notice, ill and confined to his bed, from the 9gh to the 14th of
December, 1798, on which last mentioned day he died-;
that the defendant proved his will and took out letters
testamentary on the 28th of the same month. That on
the 15th of December a notary public caled at the house
of Duncan~son, the maker of the note, to demand payment, but was informed that he had gone into Georgetown, wherpupon the note was protested ; that one
Weems, an agent of the defendant, had notice of the
dishonourof the note in _anuary, 1790. and qonversed
-with. and endeavoured to make arrangements with the
plaintiffs for the same.
ENcII

v.o

: 'or

Sfendant's

I That the note was indorsed by th'e defendlant's testator,
.without any valuable consideration passing from him to
anyperson for the same, merely to accommodate Duncanson, the maker of the note, and to give him a credit with
the plIaintiffs for the'amount thereof, and that the plaintiffs received the same with a knowledge of its being so
drawn and indorsed ; that the defendant's testator in his
life-time, and the defendant since his death, have suFered no loss or injury from the circumstance of the note
not having been demanded of the maker before the 15th
of December, 1 98, or of the want of notice to the de-

fendant's testator, or to the defendant, other than as
aforesaid; and that the court at the plaintiffs' request,
thereupon instrficted the jury that such laches and neglect of the plaintifs as to a demand on the mqker, and
.in not giving other notice than as above stated to the inj ' right,
dorser, does not debar and take away the plaintif
to recover upon that note in this action .against the defendant.
The defendant below took another bill of exceptions
to the refusal of the court, to instruct the jury. that the
neglect'of the plaintiffs,.to demand payment and to give

FEBRUARY, 1o7.

14

'notice, as before stated, discharged the defendant's testator from all liability upon the note, if the jury should
be satisfied by the evidence that Duncanson received the
money from the plaintiffs, with the assent of the defendant's testator, after his indorsement, and that at the
time of the drawing and indorsing of the note, it was
the understanding of all parties that the money should
be so paid; and that such payment and assent were a
sufficient consideration passing from French to Duncansbn.

The judgment below being for the plaintiffs, the defendant brought her writ of error.
Harper, for plaintiff in error.
The plaintiffs below tlaimed a right to recover upon
this note, notwithstanding their lacies, upon three
grounds.
1st. Because it was an accommodation note, and no
consideration passed frofi French to Duncanson.
2cl. fhat French had suffered no -injuryby the neglect
f the plaintiffs; and
3d. The assent of the defendant's agent, after the
note became payab!e.
1st. It is not a note for the accommodation of the defendant's testator,but for that of W. ML Duncanson, the
maker.
No man ought to be held liable upon a contract further-than he has consented to bind himself. If his contract was conditional, he cannot Je absolutely bound untl the condition has been performed.
What'them. was the contract which the defendant's
testator entered into by indorsing the note ?
By the law of Maryland vhich must decide this case,
-and which on this subject. is precisely the saime as-the
law of England, an exact analogy exists between an indorsed promissory note and an accepted inland bill of exVoL IV.

T

Fancf
B
COsU

oA

SUPREME COURT U. S.
lRENCH
V.
COLU BOA.

change. When an indorsed promissorynote, payable to
order, is indorsed by the payee, it is in truth an inland
bill of exchange drawn by the payee, in favour of the
Sindorsee, upon the maker, (his debtor by the note,) and
by him accepted. Hence the law with respect to both
kinds of paper is the same. The contract of the first
indors'erof a promissory note is the same as that of the
draiver of a bill of exchange. It is an express, not an
implied contract. An implied contract is that which the
law (to prevent a failure of justice) presumes the parties to have made, .where they have failed to make an
express contract for themselves ; and courts will vary
the terms of such implied contract according to the principles of natural justice. But by writing his name on
the back of the note, the indorger entered into an express contract, the terms of which are as well known,
by a reference to the law merchant, as if they were written at large on the note. He does not thereby bind himself to pay at all events. He only says to the holder,
" if you use due diligence in demanding the money of
the maker and he refuses tO pay it, and if you give me
reasorable notice thereof, I will pay you." It being then
a part of the express contract between the parties, that
the holder should in reasonable time demand the money
of the maker, and give due notice of non-paynient to the
.iridorser, before the latter can be charged, upon what
principle can a court o' justice dispense with the performance of those precedent conditions ? There is no
case upon a promissory note, in which they have been
dispensed with, except in that of De Berdt v. Athinson,
2 H. B. 336. and there it was done because the maker
of the note was hnown by all the parties to be insolvent
at the time of making and indorsing the note, and therefore the contract of the indorser in that case was not
supposed to be conditional, but absolute. But the authority of that case, although attended by such special
circumstances, is shaken, if not overruled by the case
of Nicholson v. Gouthit, in the same bool, p. 609. where
notice to the indorser of a promissory note was held necebsary, although the insolvency of the maher was hnown
to the indorser before the note became payable, and although he indorsedit for the accommodation bf the maher,
and merely to obtain him a credit. The la;ter is in its
circumstances, more like the case now before the court,

FEBRUARY, 1807.

14S

than that of De Berdt v. Atkinson. The judges in giving
their opinion in De Berdt v. Atkinson, relied not on the
actual insolvency, but on the kno-wledge of the insoivency by all the parties, at the time of making and indorsing the note ; whereby it appeared that the defendant,
in that case, had not annexed the usid conditions to his
contract as indorser; but had waived them ; and that the
waiver was known to the plaintiffs.
It is true that in~the case of Nicholson .v. Gouthit, it
appeared that Burton, the other indorser, had put into
the defendant's bands, funds t6 meet the payment of the
note, but the note not having been dinanded when due,
the defendant had paid away those funds, But if the
defendant was not entitled to notice, he paid away those
funds in 'his own wrong,. and-therefore if any damage
arose to him in consequence, it could not make his case
tl better. It may also be observed that the court in
giving an opiiiioii did not notice this circumstance as a
ground of that opinion; the chifjustice seems to exclude a presumption of that kind, because he says that
the justice of the case is with the plaintiff, which could
not be true if the defendant had suffered damages, imputable to the laches of the plaintiff, The only ground
upon which the court rested their opinion was, that the
form of guaranty which the parties had adopted, required due notice to the indorser, and therefore, although the justice of the case was with the plaintff,
they could not dispense with such notice.
. Upon this ground the opinion is certainly inconsistent with. the ctse 'of De Berdt v. Atkinson; for in the
latter the sameform of guaranty had been adopted, yet
that circumstance was not deemed sufficient to render
notice necessary, in a case where the undertaking of the
indorser was to pay at all events-an undertaking which,
in that case, was presumed from the fact that the insolvency of the maker of the note was known to all the
parties at the time of maling and indorsing, the note.
But in the case of Nicholson v. Gouthit, the maker waa
not insolvent, but only embarrassed at the time of 'the
making and indorsing of ihe note, and did not become
insolvent until afterwards, and before the note became
payable, so that there was no circumstance upon which

Fna.cn

BA.

COLUMBIA.

146
Ptzoue
V.

.SUPREME

OURT U. S.

to bulld the presumption that the defendant intended to
make' himself liable at all eveht7.

BArK 03?

C orlwiiA

The true principle which will reconcile 'all the cases
upon this point, is, " that, notice need not be given to
him who is liable in the last resort."
In'the present case, the insolvency of the maker of
the. note is not averred, nor any other circumstance to
show that French was liable in the lastresirt.
-Ifthe note had been made by Duncanson to accommodate French, slid French had received the money
frdm the bank, then'indeed it might' have been contended, that as French was the person liable in the la1t
resort, he was not *entitled to notice. But the case
Stated is, that Frentch indorsed the note to accommodate
Duncanson, who received the money of the bank. 'The
obligation of. French, therefore, was simply that of an
indot'ser of a promissory note ; or of the drawer of an
inland bill 6f exchange.
Considered in this point of view, the plaintiffs rely
up~n those cases which say that the drawer of a bill of
exchange without fundA, is not entitled tonotice.
It is admitted-that an analogy existsebetween an indorsed pr6inissory note and an inland bi! of exchange.
But the analogy is not complete until the bill of exchange is accepted.
There is no case in which notice has been deemed
unnecessary, when the bill has been accepted, except
that of Wahvyni v. St. kuintin, 1 Bos. &, Pul. 652.
,which will be noticed presently. In all the prior cases,.
in which the want of funds has been holden as excusing
the want of notice, acceptance had beeh refused;'8o that
the question has never arisen ofnan accepted bill, but in
the single case of Walwyn v. St. 9yiintin.
. It is admitted that it has been decided, that if the
drawer has neither funds. in the hands of the drawee
before the bill becomes payable, nor a right to draw, he
id 06t entitled to notice; and the reason given is be-

FE BRUA.RY, 10o7.

147

Farzcl
cautse he cannot expect the bill to be accepted and paid,
and therefore practises a fraud upon the holder ; and B'
BAtx oY
because he cannot suffer injury by the want of notice. cotLuate..
These reasons extend. only to the case of a drav er who 1
has no rigsht to draw, and the bill is not accepted; for
the acceptance is -conclusive evidence that the drawer
had funds, (or credit, which is the same thing in substahce;) against every person but the acceptor, in a suit
between him and the drawer. If the drawee has promised to accept the bill, the drawer has a right to expect that his bill will be accepted, and he has practised
no fraud upon the holder of the .bill. Notice-of nonacceptance and afortiori of non-payment of-such a bill
may be very material to the drawer, as he would be
thereby liable for interest, daniages and costs, which
he would have a right to rec6ver over~against the
drawee who had thus violated his faith, in not honoaring his bill according to promise ; -and by the want of
such notice the drawer may lose his remedy against the
drawee by his insolvency.
This may be the case where the drawer draws lyc
bill for his own accommodation without funds, .and~t~i
dra'eveeagrees to accept it to give 'the drawer a credit.
But in the present case the bill is drawn, not .for .the
accommoditi6n of the drawer, but of the drawee, and
the drhwee has not only agreed to accept, but has .ac.tually accepted it ; and if the reasons for dispefising
with notice did not apply to that case, much less 6an
they to this.
If a bill of exchange be drawn to accommodate the
drawee, the drawer hisa right to expect that it will be
accepted ; and if accepted, has ndt only h right ta ex2pect, but to insist that it shall be paid, precisely in the
same manner as if it had been drawn upon funds in the
regular coarse of "mercantile transactions.
He stands. piecisely in the same situation as if it had
been so drawn.
in"
a regular transhction, if the drawee; having funds,
after agreeing to accept, refuse acceptance, the holder

148
FRnzc -

V.

BAN.I

or

CoxunnrA.

SUPREME COURT 1U. S.

may immediately call upon the drawer, who; after
taking up the bill, may recover against the drawee the
principal, interest, damages and costs.
So if the bill be drawn for the accommodation of the
drawee, and be not accepted, the holder can immediately call upon the drawer, who upon taking it up, may

recover of the drawee the amount of the bill, with interest, damages and costs.

Immediate notice of non-acceptance is, therefore,
equally necessary in both cases ; a failure of the drawee
in either case being equally prejudicial to the drawer.
In a regular transaction, if, after acceptance, the acceptor, having funds, refuse to pay ; the drawer, after
takingup the bill, may' recover against the acceptor the
principal, interest, damages and costs.'
So if a bill be drawn to accommodate the drawee, if,
after acceptance, (which is the present case,) the acceptor refuse to pay ; the drawer, after taking up the
bill- may recover against the acceptor in likq manner.
f f the acceptors in both cases should become insolvent, both drawers would sustain precisely the same
injury; the one by being unable to withdraw his funds,
and obtain security for the interest, damages and costs,
and the other by being unable to get a reimburdement
of the-principal, interest, damages and costs, which he
had been compelled to*pay for the accommodation of the
drawee.
The two cases are precisely parallel; and if notice is
necessary in one case, it is equally necessary in the
other.
If the note of Christianto 2 B1. Com. 470. be cited,
the answer is, that the authorlof that .not6 refers to no
case but De Berdt v. Atkinson.
The only case reported, which has decided that'the
drawer of 'an accepted bill is not entitled to n6tice, is
that.of Wahvmni v. St. ,uintin, 1 Bos. & Pul. 6s2. The

FEBRUARY, 107,

149

bill there was drawn for the accommodation of the Fnz:cu
payee, and the action was by the indorsee against the
dra-wer. The acceptor had funds of the payee, but not CoLUMnrA.
of the drawer.
It is difficult to understand the chief justice in delivering the opinion of the court in that case. He says,
" as far as concerns the drawer, it is, what it has been
called, a mere accommodation.' This is true, but it
vas not for his own accommodation, which is the only
kind of accommodation that will justify the want of
notice.

He then proceeds, " and all consideration of effects
of. the drawer in the hands of the acceptor may be laid
aside." 'This again is strictly, and literally true ; hut
the drawer had a.fair pretencefor drawing, atd .Alie
acceptance was on the groundof afair mercmitile'agreement; for it is stated that the drawee had Ictually accepted the bill on the faith of funds put into his hands
by thepayee to meet the payment. And in the next
page his Lordship says, " But it may be proper to
catition bill-holder's nq to iely on it as' a general rulc,
-that if the drawer hasfiod effects in the accoptor's hand,
notice is not necessary.. The cases of acceptances upon
the faith of.consignments from the drame not come to
han d, and the case of acceptances on the groundoffahmercantile agreements, may be stated as excelitioits;
and there may be possibly many otherss" In the ie~t
sentenee, also, he seems to admit; that where the
draver has no effects in the hands of. the drawee, yetif
he has "afair pretence 'for drawing," although it -b
for the purpose of raising money by discount for himself, yet.he is entitled to notice. Here then is a difference between the opinibn and thejudgmrent of the court,
which it-is difficult to reconcile.
Heproceeds, " it .seems clear that notice can be of
no use 'to- him, (the drawer,) his situation being this,
that if the acceptor does not pay, he must; and may
.then, and not till then, resort to the acceptor to be reimbursed ; notice, theretore, can amount to nothing,
aince his situation cannot be changed." *So in the case
of a real -negotiation,. the situation of the drawer is,

150
PaENCII

v

BANK Or
COLUMBIA.
\
u

SUPREME COURT U. S.

that if the acceptor does not pay, he must ; prdvided

hei has due botice.

If the chief justice meant to say

that St. Quintini was absolutely bound to pay if the acut.Lhis"
ceptor did not, it was begging the question.
argument seems to rest on the ground that the drawer
could not resort to the abceptbr until he (the. diawer)
had paid the bill. But notice was necssary to him, thtit
he might know where to apply to take up the bill, be,
fore the acceptor should become insolvent. Notice
might also be of use to him, even before payment, as
he might take measures to get security from the acceptor, to indemnify him against the bill when it should
come back to him. His situation would certainly be
very much changed by the want of notice, if the acceptor should become insolvent after the ,bill became
payable; for if due notice had been given, he might
have taken up the bill, and compelled the acceptor to
repay him the itioney.
His Lordship, with great ,force of reasoning, says,
It Perhaps, indeed, notice ought never tq be dispensed
with, since it is a part of the same custom of merchants
which creates the duty; especially as the grounds for
dispensing 'with'it are such as cannot influence the conduct of the holder of a bill, at the time when he, is to
determine .whther he will, or will not, give noticp ;
for ninety-nine times in a hundred he canndt know
whether the drawer have or have not effects in the hands
of the acceptor, or for whose, accomfnodation the bill
was drawn. It has, however, been resolved in XAVY
cases, where the drawer has had no effects ih the hands
of the AccrPTOR, that notice might be di~spensed with."
In this last position his Lordship was certainly mis-taken, for there had not then been a single decision that
notice was nt necessary to the drawer, if the bill had
been accepted.
• He also says, " Where the drawer has no effects,
andhas nofair pretencefor drawing, or where he draws
without having effects intended to be applied in payment, and only, for the purpose of raising money by
-discount for himself, and a fortiori for the acceptor,
which is this. case, it is fairly deducible from the cases

FEBRUARY, 18o7.

151

which have been resolved, that notice need not be
given."

FnE.%ct

B

.

BA%,; or

C O'L Umm:VIe.,

It is difficult to conceive why there should be a
stronger reason for dispensing *with notice to a drawer
for the accommodation of the acceptor, than to a drawer
for his own .accommodation. Indeed, 'in the former
case, there is no reason for dispensing with notice which
will not apply to every possible casc.
- The case of TMhitfeld v. Savage, 2 Bos. & Pal. 277.
has settled the point that the insolvency of the acceptor
will not dispense with notice to the drawer.

2. The second ground on which the plaintiffs rest
their claim to recover, is, that the defendant has shown
no actual damage by reason of the w? .st of notice.
But if the drawer, for the accommodation of the
acceptor, is as much entitled to notice, as the drawer
upon actual funds, there is no more reason why tho
drawer should be bound to show actual dimage in one
.case than In the other. It cannot be because he has
paid no consideration for the bill, because, in the case
of a bill drawn on actual funds, although the drawer
pays a consideration when he deposits the -funds, yet
he also receives a consideration from the payee when
he delivers the bill, -so that when- he has drawn and
-delivered the bill, he is nothing out of pocket ; he has
in fact parted with nothing. What he gave he has received.

In the present case, although French paid nothingto
Duncanson, yet he received nothing from the bank,; so
that he stands exactly in the same situatidn as if he had
paid Duncanson the whole money and received the same
amount from the bank. In either case nothing rested
with French ; and he stood precisely in the same situation as if he had loaned the money to Duncanson upon
his note, and had afterwards got the money from the
bank upon the same note.
VOL IV.

U

SUPImME
Farimir
Be.K

TCM33A OFcs
COLNXiA

nURT U. S.

S. As to the third ground on which the action is atsupported, it is sufficieni to say that the,
to be
tempted
nt the bill of exceptioids shows nothing, at
tae in
ase stated
Smost, but an attempt, to compromise with the bank,
without a knoWledge of the fact of want of notice, or
6f the law arising txpon that fact.
Mafson, contra, contended that French was to be
considered as the dra*er of a bill of exchange without
funds, ,and therefore not entitled to notice, and cannot
sef-up the want of it as a defence, unless he can show
that he has actually sustained an injury by such want.
Chittv. 68. 88.,
-N, coniideration passed from French to Duncanson.
If-French had paid Duncanson for the bill, then that
niohey vould have been funds of French in the hands

of Duncanson, upon which French might have drawn.
The -burthen of proof lies on French to show that he
had funds, or that he has suffered actual loss-by the
want'of notice.
IN the case of De Berdt v. Atkinson, the insolvency
of Brown did not affect the question, and was not relied on by the court. When Brown signed the ndte, he
was notoriously insolvent, but he might have becomo
solvent when the note became due. There is only one
ground upon which that case can be supported, and
that is, that it Was an accommodation note, and governed by the same principle as a bill 'drawn without
funds. Buller's opinion is strong that notice is only
requisite in a fair mercantile transaction for value reteived in the regular- course of trade. The same doctrine is laid .down 'by Christian, in his note to 2 BI.
•Com. 470. -The case of Nicholkon v. Gouthie is not contradictwy to that of De Berdt v. Atkinson. The latter
case turned upon the fact that the defendant had suffered
a loss by the want of notice; he having given uo a security which he held.
The case of Wahvyn v. St. 9,uintin only decides the
old point, that notice is not necessary if the drawer has
no funds.

FBBRUAiRY,

18QZ.

Harper,in'reply.
Itis saidthat it must be a mercantile tnsaction.

153

mercantile transaction is a transaction usual among
merchants; and bills drawn for accommodation are
more frequent among merchants than bills drawn upon
funds.
I The true principle is, that the kx mercatoriahavibg
.fixed the terms of this species of contract, a man is
-supposed to contract accordingly.
It is-said that a bill drawn without funds is not a mercantile transaction ; but a man may fairly draw on what
hb supposes.to be fundg, but may be dcwcived.
A merchant may agree to accept, or to give credit,
orto lend the money; -a bill drawn under such circumstances would be a fair and regular mercantile transaction.
The fallacy of the argument is, that .it was not an
accommodation to French, but to Duncanson.
French selected this form of guaranty, and is entitled
to .all its privileges.
Sebruary 23.
MARSHALL,

Ch.

J.

Fftz
B,%,,

l

or

A CA UoA.

delivered- the opinion of -he

court.
The material question in this case is, whether a person who indorses a promissory note for the accommodation of the drawer, be discharged from the responsibility which the indorsement creates, by the failure of
the holder to demand payment of the mfiker in the usual
time, and to give notice to the indorser that the note is
not paid.
That by the general rule of law the omission to demand payment from the' maker when the note becomes
payable, and to give notice to the indorser that payment
has been refused, discharges the indorser, is admitted;

154

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Fit sc

btit from this geperal rule of law excepticns exist, and

BAN

the counsel for the defendants in.error c6ntend that the
case stated is comprehended in One of these excep-

CqI..1flA.

~tio'ns.

It is laid down as an exception to the general rule,

in its application to bills of exchange, that if the drawer
has no effects in the hands of the drawee, notice of the
dishonour of the' bill may be dispensed with,. and. tha
cae of an indorser of a promissory note-for the accommodation of the maker, is said to come within the samo
reas6n and the same law.
The, corredtiess of this pOsition will be best tested
by considering the reason of the rule, and the reason
or the exception.
-Whyislit -that notice must immd~iately? be given to
the drawer that his -bill is dishonoured by the drawee ?
It is because he is 'presumed to have effects in the hands
of the drawee, in consequence of which the drawee
ought' to pay the bill, and that he may sustain an injury
by^ acting on the presumption that the bill is actually
paid. 'I he law requires this notice, not merely as an
indefnnity-against actual injury, but as a security against
a possible injury which may result from the laches of
the holder of the bill. To this security, then, it would
seem, the drawer ought to remain intitled, unless his
case be such as tQ take him out of the reason of the
rule.
A drawer who has no effects in the hands C the
drawee,-is sAii. to be without the ieason of the raiej
and thvefore to formW an -exception to it.
This has been laid down in the books as a pogitive
qualification of ihe rule, but has seldom been so laid
down, except in cases where, in point of fact, the
dra'wer had no right to expect that his bill would be
hon6ured, and could sustain no injury by the neglept of
the holder'to give notice of its being dishonoured. In
reason it would seem, that in such cases only can the
exception be admitted, and that the necessity of no'ice
ought -to be dispensed with only in those cases wher&

FEBRUARY, 1807.

notice' must be unnecessary, or immaterial to the
drawer.
The reasoning of the judges, in most of the cases
which have been cited, would seem to warrant this re,
striction of the exception.
The case of Bikerdihe v. Bollman was a bill drawn by
a debtor on his creditor, without a single accompanying
circumstance which could raise an expectation that the
bill would be accepted or paid. Notice in this case was
declared to be unnecessary. Justice Ashhurst gives as
a reason for this opinion, that the drawing was in itself
a fraud. This reason must be considered as additional
to the general ground on which the case was placed in
the argument, which was, that the want of notice could
not possibly affect the drawer. The particular reason
given by Justice Ashh'urst for his opinion, is clearly
inapplicable to-any -case ii" which the drawer was jasti-fled-in drawing.
Into the opinion'of Justice Buller, some general reasoning is introduced, "from wAhich it is fairly deducible
that he considered the drawer as having no right to expect that the bill would be paid, and as being liable to
no injury from the want of notice, and that these were
the true grounds of the.exception.
He says, " If it be proved on the part of the plaintiff,
that from the time the bill was drawn, till the time it
became due, the drawee never had any effects of. the
drawer inhis hands, I think notice to the drawer is not
necessary; for he must kfiow whether he had effects
in the hands of the drawhe or not ; and if he had n6ne,
he had no right to draw upon him and to ixpect payment from him; nor can he be injured by the non-payinent of the bill, or the want'of notice that it has been
dishonoured."
These observations were, in fact, applicable to the
case, for the drawer was the debtor of the drawee, and
had no right to draw the bill, nor reason to expect that
it would be accepted.

Faz!-cit
V.
BAirK or

CoL.Lu
mmuA.

SUPREMt COURT U. S.
-FRF-

V..

COLDTA.

This,principle was recognized in Goodallet ahv. Dolly,
inwhich the same idea, so far as respects the imnoqsibility of injury to the drawer, was repeated;
This point came on again to be considered in the case
of Rogers v. Stephens, 2 T. R. 713. in'
which, as between the drawer find drawee, there was no pretext of
a right to draw. It was said -that a third person had
stated himself to have funds in the hands of the
drawee ; that the biql Wfas really drawn on the credit of
those funds, and -that loss had been actually'sustained
from the want of notice. But these facts formed no
part of the case. If they- had, it is apparent that, in
the opinions of Lord Kenyon and Justice Grose, they
would have been decisive in favour of the necessity of
botice, unless, thatnecessity had been dispensed with by
the subsequent conduct of the drawer. Lord Kenyon
states the reason why notice need not be given to the
person who draws without funds in the hands of the
drawee to be, " because the drawer must know that he
had no right to draw on the drawee." The opinions of
Lord Kenyon and Justice Grose in this respect, though
not assented to, were not controlerted by justice As/hhurst.
'he decision in Rogers v. Stephens was made'on the
authority of Bikerdike v. Bollman.
It would seem to be the fair construction of these
cases, that a person having a right to draw in consequence of engagements between himself and the drawee,
or in consequence of consignments made to the drawde,
or from any other cause, ought to be considered as
drawing upon fVnds in the hands of the drawee, and,
therefore, as not coming within the exception to the
general rule.
The transaction cannot be denominated a fraud, for
in such case it is a fair commercial transaction.
Neither can it be truly said that he had no right to
expect his bill would be paid, for a person authorised to
draw must expect his draft will be honoured.

FEBRUARY, 187..

157

Neither can itbe said that he has virtual notice Qf the Fuzuca
V.
prot~st, and that actual notice is useless, and the want
of it can do him no injury ; for this is only true wlhenCoLUvI~rA.
at tte time of drawing the drawerhas no reason to expect that his bill will be paid.

A person having a right to draw, and a fair right to
expect that his bill, will be honoured, would not come
within thp reason of the exception, and therefore, it
may well be contended, ought not tobe-brought within
the exception itself.
This doctrine appears to be contradicted in the case
of WalrWn v. St. "Quintin.
In that case the bill was drawn to accommodate the
indorser, who had previously placed securities, on which
he wished to raise money, in the hands of the acceptor;
but the drawer had no effects in his hands. It was deteymined that, in this case, notice to the drawer was
unnecessary.

If this'determination should be considered withcut
examining the reasoning on which it was founded,
the reader would conclude that the single circumstance
of drawing without funds in the hands of the drawee
belonging to the drawer, subjected him, without notice,
to the payment of his bill, if dishonoured, at aiiy perioa of time when no barred by the act of limitations ;
and that no demonstration of his'perfect right to draw,
or of the loss to which the want of notice had exposed
him could relieve him from the claim of the holder of
the bil - For in this case the drawee having accepted on
funds, the drawer had a right to expect t4at the bill
zvould be paid, could not be chargeable with fraud in
drawing, nor required to prepare other funds to prevent
the disgrace and injury of his bill's being dishonoured, or
to take measures to secure himself against the acceptor
or ifidorser. He does not appear to have come within
any one reason assigned in the cases of Biherdihe v.
Ballman, or of Rogers v. Stephens, for the exceptign
state4 in .those cases to the general rule,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FRZNC,,
COLUMBIA.

This induces the necessity of examining with particular attention the reasons given by the judge, which
must be considered as-explanatory of the decision.
In delivering the opinionof the court, Lord'Chief
Justice Byre said, " The true fact is, that this was the
acceptor's bill, and not the drawer's." " The traneaction in this case was a mode by which the acceptor advanced a sum of money to the payee, and the drawer
was a mere instrument of the acceptor." " It seems
clear, that notice can be of no use to him, his situation
being this, that if tha acceptor do not pay, he must,
and nay then, andnot till then, resort to the acceptor
to be reimbursed. Notice, therefore, can amount to
nothing, for his situation cannot be changed."
It is observable that the principle sujpposed to be laid
down in the cases previously adjudged as constituting
the reason for the exception is here expressly recognized, and forms the great and operative motive for the
judgment of the court. It is, that notice could be of
no use, that the dr~iwer could not avail himself of it,
that he could take no step whicli would in any manyer
change his situation, that he could have no recourse
against the acceptor until he paid the bill.'
In no case, is the reason of the exception more explicitly given, and the only difficulty is to apply the reasoning to the facts as reported.
The court seem to have suppoqed, that since the
drawer could not maintain an action agaihst the acceptor until he had taken up the bill, that it was perfectly useless to enable him, by proper notice,- to employ those other various means :which he might have
taken to secure himself, Such is not the'reasoning of
the judges in the cases previously decided; and this
r easaning certainly would not be perniitted to apply to
an indorser who .had given value'for the bill, not .kilowing that it was drawn without funds in the hands of the
drawee.. Yet he would be unable to r ecover from the
drawer until he had taken up the bill.

FEBRUAR.Y, 180.7.

Xs9

an action could not have been maintained, might Famrca
V.
i4ot the drawer have effects of the draweein his hands
which he might *retain; or might not various other C^-U or
means of saving himself be neglected, in consequence
of the opinion 'that the bill would be paid? If this
alight be, how can it be true that notice can be of no
pse to him?
"Ifthe fact even be that the drawer could only sue the
acreptor in such a case as this, after having himself dispharged the-bill, still he ought to have notice, that he
might immediately take it up for the purpose of proceeding against the acceptor.
The reasoning of Lord Chief Justice .Eyre, to be
perfectly consistent with itself and with tire principles
laid down in previous decisions, would seem to be predicated on an understanding on the part of the drawer
wheni he bil was drawn, that it was not to be ppid by
the acceptor; or on the idea that a bill drawn without
fujads is pot a commercial transaction, and not subject
4o commercial rules.
The presumptions are rendered the stronger from the
€a;es afterwards stated, in which a drawer without
fMnnji in the hands of his drawee would still be entitled
-to 4otice. These are "acceptances on thefaith of conig-nments from the drawer notcome to hand," and " qcf2ptances o4 the ground of fair mercantile agreement ;"
to which, he says, may possibly be added many othera.
If the excqption admits of these exceptions and, of
j any others, it would be difficult to apply it to any case
of a 'fair transaction, where the drawer had really a
right to dratw, unless it be supposed not to be gdVeMed
by the law merchant.
Thle judge next proceeds to describe the case in which
.notice is not xequisite.
He says, " Where the drawer has no effects, andhAas
nofairpretence for drawing,"or where he draw; without effects intended to be applied in payment, and only
Vol. IV.

X

160

for the purpose of raising money by discotint:for him-

PU1ceN
BASK

SUPREME COURT U. S.

o.

COLUMBIA.

self, and a fortiori for the acceptor, it is fairly deducible from the cases that notice need not be given,"
It is-not only Tiecessary that the drawer should have
no effects, but also that he should have nojairpretence
for drawing. Now he may have a fair pretence, as in
the case of a " fair mercantile agreement," without
having any funds in the hands of the drawee, which
notice of non-acceptance of the bill might enable him tO
withdraw; and yet in such case it would appear, from
the language of the court, that notice could not be dis'
pensed with.
" Where he draws only for the purpose of raiing
money by discount for himslf, and a fortiori for the
acceptpr," notice need not be given.
Where he draws solely for the pulpose of. raising
money by discount for himself, he expect6 to pay the
bill, and there is no person to whom he can resort.for
repay neat. There is no person on whom he can have
a legaz or an equitable demand, in consequence of the
non-paymefit of the bill. 'But how can the same reasoning be said tb. apply a fortiori to the cas of the bill
being 'drawn for the use, of ihe acceptor? In-such case
the relative situation of the partieA must be substantially
the same as if t6e money raised on the bill for the acceptor; were funds of the, drawer in his hands, on
which the bill was drawn. Eivery motive for requiring
notice of non-payment, in the case of, a bill drawn upon
,funds, except that which results from a right to claim
those funds by a suit, would apply to a bill drawn to
raise money for the acceptor, unless it was understood
at the time that the acceptor was not to pay the bill.
, ne case ox ,rujwyn v. St. .. uintin, then, can only
be supported on the.idea of an understanding that the.
drawee was not to pay the bill, or thata bill, drawn,
not in the usual course of business, is a transaction to
which cqmmercial rules do hot apply.

FEBRUAIY, 1807.

161

In the case of Whi feld v. .Savage, (2 Bos. & Pul.
2r.) the drawer had funds in 'the hands of the -cpeptor, and the decision turned upon that point.

The reasoning 'on the cases of protested
been gone into the more at large, because it
considered as applicable to promissory notes
under the statute of Anne, which is admitted
force in Maryland.

bills has
has been.
indorsed
to be in

The indorser has been considered as the ilrawer, and
the maker of the note as the acceptor ; and in all cases
of an indorsement for accommodation, the indorser
is likened to a drawer without fdnds in the hands of the
acceptor;
Where the moxiev raised upon the note is re'cived
bythe indorser, so that the note is discounted, in truth,
• dr his accommodation, not for that of the maker, he is
unquestionably without funds in the hands of the acceptor,- must expect .to pay the note himself, and capndt require notice of its non-payment by the maker.
But thc same-reasons do nor appear to exist where
the note has" been discounted for the maker.
In
that case the funds which represent the note are in the
hands of the maker, or, to use the language applicable
to bills; in'the hands of the acceptor before the draft
becomes payable; the drawer had a right to draw, and
had a right to expect that his bill would be paid. Upon
principles of, reason and ofjustice, then, it would seem
that notice of non-payment could as litle be dispensed
with in this case," as if he had limself 'paid the moneyto the maker of, the note, and then received it from
the bank,, or as if the note had been given him for a
previous debt, and had been discounted for h olwn - usq.
Notice of non-payment 'by the pmaker is necessary,
because tlie undertaking of the indorser. is conditional,
and wherever, in fact, the transaction is such that the
maker of' the note ought in justice to pay it, and is
bound ultimately to make it good,.-it wbuld seem reasonable that payment should be demanded from him,
and that reasonable notice of non-payment should be
given to the indorser.

Fnnou
2 YZ

CL1OF.

SUPREMt COURT U. S.
Frznch

v., or
BASK
COLUMBXA.

If, however, the course of decisions be otherwise,
the 'indorser of a note for the accommodation of ihe

maker must come within the exception which dispeneea
notice in his case.

Swith

The cases which have been adjudged in England on
promissory notes, are anterior, in point of time, to the
cases of Walwyn v. St. _uintin, and of Whitfield 4,. Salvage.
The first which has been cited is Do Btett
son.

V.

.tin-

This note was indorsed for the accommodatio

Of the maker, the indorser woll knowing at the time
.that the maker was insolvent. Four. judges who tiied
the cause were unanimously of opinion, that watt of
notice did not discharge the indorser. The opinion of
the Chiefyustice was founded on the known insolventwy of
the maker, and the consequent impossibility that losA
could be sustained by the indorser from want of tloticei
The opinion of Justice Bullet was founded on the ciri
cumstance that the note was indorsed for the accommdA
dation of the drawer. He states explicitly, diat thd
general rule is only applicable to fair transactions, and
by fair transactions he means " bills or notes given fot
value in the ordinary course of trade."
justices Heath and Jooke accorded in the dedisiobt
but whether for the reasons assigned by the Chiif. udtivc, or for those assigned by Justice Buller, or fot bdtlt
does not appear.
The same point came on to be considered in the. case
of Nicholson v. Gouthit.

This was a strong case, because'the indorsement wat
made in consequence of a previous engagement on.the
part of the indorser to guarantee the payment of a debt
due from the maker of the note, who appears;' front
the transaction, to have been in bad circumstances at
the time,,and who became insolvent before the note
was payable. From his connection with the makbr, tind
from other circumstances, the indorser must have known
that the Mxaker would not pay the note, and it was the

PnBRUARY, Iot.

163

-underst-nding of all parties that it should be paid by
the indorser.
The justice of the case was said to be clearly in fayour of the plaintiff, and under an impression that the
want of notice in this case could not injure the plaintiff,
the LordChief /ustice had at the trial instructed the jury
that it was unnecessary, and indeed that it might be
considered as receifved by anticipation.
In this ease the note was ngt made merely to raise
mn1ey, but was made to pay a debt. The indorser,
however, gave "no 'value for it,'and, if likened to the
drawer of a bill of exchange, he had drawn without
funds inthe hands of the acceptor, and wish a knowledge that the acceptor would not pay the bill.
But iti the -argument in favour of P. 'new tial, th
counsel contended that the law upon a pfomissvry note
was different, id this respect, from the law on a bill of
exchange, and though notice of the dishonour of a
bill drawn without funds in the hands of the drawee
need not be given, yet the rule in the case of promissory
notes is totally different, and ndtice must in all cases be
given to the indorser.
In delivering the opinion of the court, Lord Chief
Justice Eyre assented to this distinction, and admitted
the rule ith respect to notice to the-indorser, to be as
stated. He therefore reversed his own decision at
Nisi Prius, and granted a new trial upon th6 strict law,
contrary to his ideas.of thejustice of the case.
Heath and Roohe concurred in"
this opinion. Buller
was not present, and- reasoning from his opinion in the
case of De Berdt v. Athinson, it is probable he would not
have concurred in the decision of this case.
However, then, the law may be with regard to the
drawer of a bill of exchange who from other circumstances may fairly draw, but'who has no effects in the
hands of the drawer, it seems settled in England, by
the case of Nicholson v. Gouthit, that the law with'regard to a promissory note is different, and that, if in

Ftrra
or

BTA

COLUNDIA.

-SUPREMIE COURT U. S
FRNCA

V.

]BAN1K OF
COLUMBIA.

-,

any case Nhire the notice is made for the benefit of the
maker, notice to the indorser canl be dispensed with it
is only in the case of an insolvency known at the time
of indorsement.
In point of reason, justic, and the nitture of the
undertaking, there is no case. in which the indorser'is
better entitled to demand strict notice than in the case of
an indorsement for accommodation, the maker having
received the value.
•*This. cotirt is of opinion that the circuit court erred
in directing thejury that the laches of the plaintiffs, in
failing'to demand payment of the maker of the note,
and to givd notice of non-payment to the-indorser, did
not deprive.. the plaintiffs of their remedy againt tho
indorser, -and therefore thejudgment rendered in this
case is reversed, and the cause remanded for further
trial. A new,trial,, with instructions, &c,
Judgment reversed.
_W < c-

.

HOPKIRK v. BELL
HoPKIRKx

BELL.
The

THIS.case was againecrtfledfrom -the'ccuit court
for the district of Virginia.

act of

limitations of

It appeared upon the trial, in addition to the facts
stated in the former report of the case,* that Andrew
,,
tish creditor's Johnston, one of the partners of the house, trading undemand on a der' the firm of Alexander Spiers, John Bowman and
promissory
Company, of who& the lplaintiff is the surviving-partner,
note, dated *.ame to this country .after the treaty of peace in 1783,
VIZ. in'the spring of 1784, and died here in 1785, but
1772, al.
though one of that no other pirtneri of the.firm has been in this couhtry,
the plaintiff at any. time since the treaty of peace.
wvas in the
Virginais n0

bar to a Bri--

country after '
the treaty of
C..Lee for. plaintiff, cited 3 Dall. 240. 242. 281.
peace, liz. Ware v. Hylton.
. in 1784, and
remained
See ante, v6l. 3. p. 4541

