SUPREME COURT U, S.
DAWSON'S
LESSEE

V.
GODFREY.

deprives an alien generally of the right of inheritint, it
is incumbent upon the plaintiff to establish some exception in favourof his case. But I know of no exception,
at common law, which gives the right to inherit distinctly from the obligation of allegiance, existing either in
fact or in supposition of law.
Judgment affirmed.

M0UNTZ,
V.
IIODGson.

MODUNTZ AND OTHERS v. HODGSON
AND THOMPSON.

Quere,
whe.
THIS was a writ of error 'to a supposed judgment of'
ter
tihe maytor of George. the circuit court of the district of Columbia,- for the
town, in the

county of Washington, between.Hodgson and Thomp-

distrietof Co. son, plaintiffs, and. Jacob Mountz, .7ohn Mountz and
lumbia,

justice

is a

of

Henry Knowles, defendants.

peace of.the

county of

Hodgson- and Thompson had recovered judgment in
term, 1805, against Jficob
By
the act of assembly
yasml
will lie to the of Maryland, 'i791.. c.- 67. entitled " an act for regurefusal of the " lating the mode of staying execution, and for repealcourt below, c"g the acts of assembly therein mentioned,"' it isenWashington? the court,below* at.December
wWhether
a Mountz~ and Geor..
writ
of error
o~ Reintzel.

to quash an. 'ng
execution up. acted, that. no execution shall issue upon any judgment,

on

motion ?

provided theperson or persons against whom such judgment is obtained, shall come before two justices of the
peac of the county, where such person or persons shall
reside, within two months'after, the rendition of such
judgment, and together with two other persons, such as
the said justices shall approve of, and confess judgment
for his debtand costs of suit adjudged; with stay of execution for six fionths thereaftei - which- confession
shall be made in manner and form following, that is to
say .1
youH. M. A. B. and C, D. do confess judgment
to E. F." &c. which.confession shall be signed by the'

FEBRUARY, laos.
justices before whom the same is made, and a certificate
thereof shall be procured under the hands of the said

justices, and such certificate shall be a sufficient super-

sedeas to the sheriff to forbearserving execution upon the
body or goods of the person so obtaining such certificate.
And it is further enacted, that the justices shall return
the confession of judgment to the clerk of the court,
where the first judgment was rendered, by the next court
in course, to be entered on record ; and after the expiration of the time limited in such confession, it shall be
lawful to take out execution thereon, without a scirefacias or any other delay, against either the principal or
the security, or all or either of them for such judgment
so confessed.
According to the provisions of this act, the original
defendant .7acob J.Mountz (without his co-defendant
George Reintzel) went before John Ott and Daniel
Reintzel, and, together with Henry Knowles and Yohn
Mountz, his sureties, confessed judgment to Hodgson
and Thompson, in the form prescribed by the act of assembly. John Ott was admitted tobe a justice of peace
of the county of Washington, but Daniel Reintzel signed his name as Mgayor of Georgetown.
By the act of assembly of Maryland, 1789. c. 23. incorporating the town of Georgetown, it is enacted "that,
the mayor, recofder and aldermen" "shall be justices
of. the peace within the said town, and the precincts
thereof," and that each of them " shall have the same
jurisdictioni as to debts, as any justice of the peace of any
cpunty of this state now hath, or shall hereafter have
by law."
After the expiration of the six month mentiofied in the
confession of judgment, a ca. sa. was issued thereon,
against Jacob Mountz, Henry Knowles, and John
Mountz, upon which they were all taken, and on the return thereof, they moved to quash the execution;
i. Because the confession of judgment was not before
two justices of peace of the county; and,
2. Because the judgment was not confessed by George
Reintzel, the co-defendant in the first judgment.

lkfoLv T
V.
H0D

.

SUPREME COURT .U, S.
MOUNTZ
- 0 xV.
ItODOSON.

But the court below overruled both' objections, and
refusedto quash the.execution; whereupon the defendants took.a bill of exceptions, and brought their writ of
error.

F. S. Key and Morsel, for the plaintiffs in error,
As to the first point, contended, that Daniel Reintzel
was not a justice of peace of the county, but only of
Georgetown. That he had only the powers neoessary
for the preservation of the peace in that town. And
even if he had power within the town to receive a confession of judgment, it did not appear by the record
that this confession was taken in the town, but might
have been taken elsewhere, in which case his act would
be void.
On the secondpoint, they contended that all the defendants to the original judgment, must join in the supersedeas. The words of the act are, "such person or
persons," thereby implynig that if there were several
defendants, all must join. Suppose there should be
five solvent defendants, and one' insolvent who supersedes the judgment with two sureties ; the plaintiff can-

not take out execution against the five, until the expiration of the six months. If execution be stayed as to One,
it is stayed as to all. The execution on a joint judgment must be against all'. it must follow the nature of
thejudgmelat.
Yones, contra.
This is an ex parte proceeding by the debtor. Hc'
chuses the magistrates before whom he will confess the'
judgment; he is estopped tW deny- their jurisdiction,
after he has had the benefit of the delay. But If this be
avti error, it is an error of fact which this' court cannot
corrept. It is a question of fact, whether Daniel Reint-

zel be a justice Qf peace of the county. He has signed
his name as mayor, yet he may also be a justice of peace
of the county. . They might as well assert that John Ott
is not a'justice of peace, because he has not signed
his. name as such; There is no such office as that of a.

justice of peace of Georgetown.

It isto be presumed

FEBRUARY, 18o8.

327

that the .confession was made in Georgetown, as the
contrary does not appear, and Mr. Reintz l signed his
name in his official .character as mayor of that town.
The writ ot error complains of the jtqdgment of the
two justices, not of that of the circuit court. Or rather
the error which they assign is an error in the judgment
of the justices, and not in the judgment of the court.
The confession of judgment only stays the service of
the executior, it does not prevent its emanation. The
words of the act are, that it shall be a sufficient supersedeas to the sheriftoforbear serving execution. The
execution may issue against all, but shall not be served
upon him who has confessed judgment with sureties.
. orsell in reply.
The judgment confessed before the justices, by being returned to the office of the clerk of the circuit court,
and there entered of record, becomes a judgment of
that court ; otherwise no scire facias could'lie to revive
the judgment.
The act of assembly makes the confession of the second judgment a complete supersedeasto the first. -No
execution can issue on the first judgment after confedsion of the second. The words of the.act are positive.
"No execution shall issue." &c.
17farch 8.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The majority of the cdurt is of
opinion that the writ of error must be quashed, this court
not having jurisdiction.
The refusal of the court below, to quash the execution on motion, is by some of the judges supposed not
to be a judgment to which a writ of*error will lie.
Vol. IV.

Tt

Mov,;w
V
HoWSso.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Mo uNTz

V.
HO DGSON.
os.

Others are of opinion that a writ of error will lie to that

decision of the court, but that this writ of error is not to
thejudgment of the circuit court, but to that of thejustives.
Writ of error quashed.

BLAINE ti. THE SHIP CHARLES CARTER,
BLAINE
V.

AND

TurE SIP

DONALD AND BURTON AND OTHERS

CHARLPS

CLAIMANTS.

CARTER.

If'the obli-

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Vir-

gee of a bot- gihia.
tomry bond
sufMer the ship
Blaine libelled the ship Charles
to make seve.

C6irter, Bell master,
ral voyages, owned by M'Cawley, upon two 'bottomry bonds ;. one
without as- executed in London by Bell the master, on the 14th of
ierting his
lien, and exe-

July, 1796, and payable ten days after the arrival of the
cutions are le- ship in Virginia ; the other.executed on the 27th of Ocvied upon the tober, 1796, by M'Cawley the owner, in Virginia where
ship by other he resided-, and payable in thirty days after the arrival
creditors, thepaal
uryds
obligee loses of the ship in Europe. The answer of A.['Cawley adhis lien on mitted the truth of all the allegations of the libel; but a
the. ship.
claim was interposed by Donald and Burton, creditor- of

-11r'1awley, who had on the 30th of November, 1Y97,
obta jied judgment against him, and at whose suit the
marshal on the 30th of December, in the same year,
had seized the ship in execution upon several Writs of
flerifacias, issued on the 7th of the same month, from
the circuit court for the district of Virginia, before the
warrant of arrest had issued from the district court,
upon Blaine's libel. The libel was filed on the 19th of
January, 1798, on Which day also the warrant to arrest
the ship was issued.
It appeared in evidence, that the first bottomry bond
was given by the master to Blaine, upon the first roy

