24
PAWLX NG &
OTHERs
V.

pTTXU~'r
STATES.

SUPREME .COURT U. S.

explaining and affecting the act with which they connected it.

.

It is also of some importance that the defendant,
Todd, -bad previously declared that he. should not be
apprehensive of becoming a security for Ballinger, provided others, whom he named, should also become securites, and that he inserted the names of others in the
bon4, in the presence of the witness.
Although the judgts who compose this court might
not, perhaps, as jurors, -be perfectly satisfied with this
testimony, they cannot say that a verdict would not be
received, or ought not to be received,' which should
find the issue in favour of the defendants below. They
cannot say that such a verdict would be against evidence. Thinking so, the court is of opinion that the
judgmbnt on the demurrer ought to have been in flavotir
of the defendants below
It is unnecessary to give any opinion on the second
point. The judgment of the court for the district of
Kentv ky is to be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

GRANT v. NAYLOR.

r_.RANT
NAYLOR.

A letter of , ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Mary.
addressed by larjib in an action of assumplsit brought by John and Yeinisfake to remia Naylor against Daniel Grant.
credit

Yohn and Jos vHed deliveredto
.ohn and Jx.
rEMi-A2, will

The verdict and judgment below were for the plain.

• "-.

tiffs on the second count of the declaration, which stated
in substance, that it wiis agreed between the plaintiffs and
nQtsupportan defendant; that if the plaintiffs would *atthe request of
ation byJohn the dafendcit sell and deliver .to a John Hackeft and
and
for goods fderemiah
fur- Alexander Grant " divers goods, .wares and mer~han-

-

F

1RUARYV

1808.

dizes," he, the defendant, in consideratioTrof the same,
G11AUT
V.
promised to pay'the plaintiff s much money as they reasonably deserved-to have therefor, in case Hackett and
Grant did not pay for them ; and that, in consideration nished
by
of.the defendant's-promise, and at his request, they'sold them to the
and delivered to Hackett and Grant "divers goods, bearerit upon
wares and merchandizes, ' and reasonably deserved th letter of
t6 have therefor 2,1681, sterlinig, of which the defendant credit. It is
and Hackett and Grant had notice; and which Hackett not a written
and Grant did not pay, but refused, and are insolvent; cntre cotatbethe
of all which the defendant had notice, and in considera- plaintiff, and
tion of the premises-promised to pay the plaintiffs the the defend.
and can.
ant,proof
said sum'of 2,1681. sterling, of
- the v lie, &c. which he rot
has failed to do.
not be admit.
Upon the issue of non assumpsit, the plaintiffs read in
evidence a letter, admitted to be signtd by and with the
name of the 'defendant, and directed '"To Messrs. John
and rPoseph Naylor and Company," in the following
words :
"Baltimore, 6th April, 1795.
" Gentlemtn,

ted to mike it

such. It is
mniior
notacae
or
offraud, or or
initate on
the part or
the ptaittifi.

Serb. That
the certificate
of commissloners nufied
in a dedimnu,

"By the recomuhendation of Mr. Travis, I take
the liberty to address you by my son Alexander, who
visits England.with a view of-establishing connexions in
the commercial line there in the different manufactories
and others. He is concerned with Mr. John Hackett,
of this place, ubder .the firm of Hackett and Grant. For
their plan I refer to themselves. Have therefore only to
add, that I will guaranty their engagements, should
you tfink it necessary, for any transaction they may have
with'your house."

that they took
in due form of

law the oath

the eomis-to

sion, is suffl.
cientevidence
of That
that fect.
it is
not necessary
to give notice
to
the oppo.
site party of
the time and
place of exe.

The plaintiffs also produced and offered to read iii cuting. . the
'
T"mifiorn
evidence a commission (with interrogatoriesand an exhibit and depositions) directed to two persons, in the return of'the
usual form, commanding them to take the examination commivionand ers beelilk4.
of the witnesses in writing upon the interrogatories,
ed it an ecve.
I
to send them to the court closeduip and under the seals of !0,c which is
sealed
by the
any two or one of them, and requiring them to take the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
oath annexed to the commission, blut not directing
before whom, or in what manner the oath should be

GRANT-

v.

NAYLOR.
Staken,

commissioners, no other
sealing by the

The depositions iander this commission went to prove
that there was.no commercial house at Wakefield, (the
is n°cs. town where the plaintiffs lived,) under the name of
srs
Fary.
John and 7oseplh Naylor and Company. That the firm
of the plaintiffs was John. and 7eremiah Naylor and
Company, and that the Mr. Travis mentioned in the
letter was the agent of the plaintiffs. That the letter was
in fact intended fdrithat house, and was delivered to it
by Alexander Grant, of the house of Hackett and Grant,
who obtained goods upon the credit of it, and who became insolvent.
To,the reading of this commission and depositions tho
defendgnt objected, contending that the commission
was illegally and defectively executed ; but the court
below overruled the objection, pod suffered them to bo
read..
The defendant then prayed the court to instruct the
jury, that upon this evidence the plaintiffs were not en
titled to recover upon either count in the declaration;
but the.court. refused, and instiucted the jury that the
ei'iden~e Was proper and legal to support the issue on the
part of the plaintiffs, and suicientin laswf/or that purpose,
if b i the jury believed to be true, and if they should believe that the letter was intended to be addressed, and
was qddressed,by the defendant to the plaintiffs.

To which opinions of the court the defendant excepted,
and biought his wri of error,
Martin, for the plaintiff in error.
1, The first bill of e:gceptions brings into vew the in.
forriialiyv'of the execution of the commission to examine
witnesses. The authority to issue such a'commission,
and the mode of executing it, depend upon the'att of assembly of Maryland, passed at November session, 1773,
0, v. s. 7. by which it is enacted, "that such commission
shal" issue, and the commissioners shall be appointed and

BEBRUARY" 1808.

227

qualified, and such interrogatories be proposed or exhibited, and such commission be executed and returned,
and the depositions or affidavits taken in pursuance-thereof, shall be published in the same manner aid form, as
in the case of a commission issuing out of the court of
chancery for the examination of witnesses re4iding and
living out of this province ; and the depositions or nidavits which shall be duly made or taken in virtueof any
commission which shall issue in pursuance of this ocr,
.or copies thereof duly attested, shall be admitted iri
evidence at the tri~l of the cause."
The mode of issuing and executing commissions from.
the court of chancery in Maryland has always been conformable to the English practice, except that, by the act
of assembly oqf1785, c. 72. s. 15. the parties are pfrmitted to be present at the examination, and may put additional interrogatories.
1st. We object to the execution of the commission, because it does not appear that the commissioners were
sworn according to law. They themselves certify that
they took the oath annexed to the commission, but donof
say before whom, nor in what manner. It-oughtto have
been certified by some person who administered the
oath, and who was competent in law to administer it ;
and such certificate ought to show hozo it was done. It
is like the case of a commission to ascertain the boundaries of lands, in which case it has been uniformly holden
in Maryland, that if the commissioners only return that
they have acted according to law in general terms, their
return is insufficient. They must certify in what manner they have executed their commission, that the court
.may-judge whether it be legally executed.
72d. The commissioners were only authorised to examine witnesses upon 'the interrogatories sent out with
the commission. But it does not appehr that any interrogatories were sent with the commission.*
Harer. The rule of the court below isthat no commission shoIt
issue until ten days after interrogatories filed.

It is to be presumed

that the' clerk did not disobey the rule of court. The euminbslonerM
have returned the interrogato-ics with the depositions:

GnA!:?

Y

-vm

2Z8
GJRVr

NAV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

3d. The defendant had no notice of the time and placg
He filed no interrogatolies. Notice is required by the principles of natural
justice, and by the conistant practice of the court of chancery. I Harrison'sCh. .Prac.444.

of executing the commission.

4th. The return of the commissioners ouglht to have
been'unde seal.
LiVINGSTON,

J.

Was not the envelope utider their

seals ?
JMartin. Yes; but that is not sufficient ; they, ought
to have put their seals.to their certificate.
LIVINGsToN, J. I have never seen any other seal
to the return of commissions than the seal to the envelope.
1.fartin
5th. The commission was taken out upon thefirst issue
which was made up, and before the second issue upon the
amended pleadings,* upon which the cause was finally
tried.
LIVxx-GSTON, J. Did not the old declAration contain
a count like the second count of the new, upon which the
verdict found?
Alartin. Upon filing a new declaratioh, it is to be
considered as a new case altogether. B q. Ca. Ab 490.
2d vol. pt. i.p. 5. new edition.
2. The second bill of exception draws in question the
applicability of the evidence to the counts of the declaration, and its sufficiency to support the plaintiffs' action.
The verdictbeing for the plaintiffs upon the second count
only, confikes the inquiry to that count.
, I On the first trial a juror was withdrawn, and the plaintiff head
leave to amend." Upon which he filed a new declaration, and a new
issue was made up, in substance the saine as the first.

BEBRUARY, 1808.

229

The letter upon which the action is founded was not
addressed to the plaintiffs, but to John and 7osepl Nay-

lor and Company.

person canndt take by a grant made to him by a
wrong name. Afoore, 197. Pantonv. Chose. I Salk. 7.
Cro. Eliz. 897. ca. 22. Field v. Wilson. Willes, V.54.
556. Evans v. King.
No parol evidence is admissible to vary a written
agreement. 3 Dall. 416. Clarke v. Russel. i H. Bl.
289. Gunnis v. Erhart.
This was a promise to pay the debt of another, ann
within the statute of frauds. Cozup. 227. zones v.
Cooper. 2 T. R. 80. Watson v. Wfharam. I Salk. 23.
The written agreement must show the considerationas
well as the promise. The whole agreement must be in
writing. S East, 10. Wan v. grarlters; No parol testimony can supply the defect.
The declaration must set forth the special agreement
precisely. Theprobatamust agree with the allegata. 2
Bos. and Pul. 281. Wilson v. Gilbert. 3 Bo.,. and Pul.
559. Whitwell v. Befnett. 6 T. R. 363. Spalding v.
Mufure. 5 East, 111. note. Bordenave v. Bartlett. 3
Esp. Rep. 205. 3 Bos. andPA. 456. Turner v. Eyles.
The plaintiffs cannot, upon this evidence, recover
either upon the special counts 6r the money counts. 4
Bos. and Pul. 351. Cooke v. Afunstone.
The letter is not an absolute guarantee, but upon condition that John and Joseph Naylor should think it necessary. There is no evidence of notice to the defendant that the plaintiffs thought it necessary. They cught
to have given the defendant notice that they held him
responsible, in order that he might take means to secure
himself.
It was not a continuing guarantee. It is to be consideredas extending only to the first importation of goods;

GUA-.T

I.

SUPREME COURT. U. S.
GRANT

V.

NAYLOR.

bu't the plaintiffs have recovered upon the transactions of
several years.
The declaration ought to have set out specially what
engagements Hadkett and Grant had made and failed to
comply with.
Ingersoll, contra.
There are only three questions made in this case.
1. Whether the letter of credit rendered the defendant
liable to the extent of the plaintiffs' demand.
2. Whether the objection, arising from the mristake in
addr.e sing the plaintiffs as John and )Yoseph, instead of
John and Yereiniah, is not obviated by the proof, without an averment in the declaration that the same persons
were meant.
3. Whether the evidence under the commission was
admissible,
1, On the first ppint he contended, that it wnsapparent
-on the face.of,tbe lptter, and from the, nature of the bu&iness in ,which. Hackett and Grant were about to engage, that a continuing guarantee was intended. And
that if there was any arihbiguity in theexpressions of the
letter, upon that point, they ought to be taken most
strongly against the writer, and that a letter of credit
was a, contract which required to be executed among
merchants with peculiar good fiith.
2. Parol evidence was admissible to show that John
and 7oseph meant John and Yeremiah. 10 5Co. 124. and
125 (b).
It ik admitted that if the obligor be sued by the nane
in.the bond, .and it be proved by parol that the defendant
delivered the bond, he is estopped (o deny his h'nme to
be as in the bond. So in assuniprit,parol evidence may
he given to shbi, that the contract was made with A4. by
the name. of BAau to show that.the wvriting was delivered to -4.

FEBMRAR,

ISO8.

231

rt is the ciistom in Europe among merchalits to lieep
the name of a firm long after all the original copartners
are dead. Suppose a letter of credit addressed to the
old firm be delive-red to persons not.named in the letter,
and they furnish the goods-shall they not be entitled
to recover upon this letter of credit?
In the present case, suppose there is no such person
as Joseph, then his name is a surplusage, and it is a letter to John.-And then what is the objection to a suit in
the name of John and Jeremiah?
I may state the contract according to its legal import.
If a bon'd be made in the name of John, and James deliver it, it is the bond of James.. So may a letter addressed to John ana Joseph, delivered to John and Jeremiah, constitute a contract with John and Jeremiah. It
was competent to prove that Alexander Grant delivered
the letter to John and Jeremiah, and that there was no
other fifii in Wakefield of the name of Naylor.

It was

not necessary to state in the declaration that the contract
was in writing, nor that John and Joseph meant John
and Jtremiah. If John and Jeremiah had d'rawo a bill
of exchange in the name of John and Joseph, John and
Jeremiah would have been liable. So on .a policy 'of insurance in the name of -A. but for the use of B. it is not
necessary to aver itto be so, but an action may be brought
directly in the name of B.
So ffI difect my correspondent, having funds in hw
hand, to make insurance, and he fails to do so; I may
chatge him as insurer, without stating specially thie circumstances which render him liable. So in case of e.xecutor de son tort, I charge him as executor generally,
without stating the facts of intermeddling with the
goods, &c. whereby he is liable to be sued as executor.
Ingersoll inquired of the court whether it was required
that he should say any thing upon the execution of the
commission an&dthe depositions.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The only doubt entertained by
the court upon ifhat point is as to the change of the issue.
VOL IV.

G g

GnAzrr

v.
NAYLOR.

23t
GV AXT

V~.

,.

.

SUPREME COURT U. S,

Zngersoll. The case cited from Eq. Ca. Ab. furnishes
the answer. In that case there was no issue when the
depositions were taken, but here was an issue tlhe same in
substance as that upon which the cause was tried.
.On the next day, Harper,on the'same sides was stopped by
The Court, as to the point of the change of the issue,
saying that the issue was in substanee the sameand that
the court was satisfied that the judgment was not erroneous on that account.
Harper. The cases in which parol evidence is ad.
mitted'to explain a written agreement, are,
1st. Of ambiguity, and,
2d, Of mistake.
i. Of ambigwdty, where it is patent it Is the province
of the court to explain it from-the instrument itself, and
he judges c annt resort to evidence dehars.
When thete is no'ambiguity upon the face of the instrument,-but-an uncertainty arises from facts out of
the instrument, (as where there are two persons of tho
same name and description,) there the ambiguity may be
explained by parol testimony.
You may not by parol evidence varyf extend or curtail
'
a written instrument, but you may explain it. 2 Wlez. 216.
Hlampshire v. Pierce., Pawellon Contracts, 431.
The case of -lerk andRussel was a case of patent ambiguity.
2. But we, say this is not a case of latent or patent
ambiguity, but of mistake, and there are many instances
where a mistake may be corrected-by parol. 3 T. R.
The King" v. Thehabitants ofeScanimonden. 6 T R?.
671. Thomas v. ,Thoras. Powell o Contracts, 432.Cro, Car. 501, Aevison v. W1hitney. 2'P. Wins. 141.

FEBRUARY, 18o8.

.2$3

CHASE, I. There was a case of Lord Baltimore's
devise to his son Benjamin, when his name was Benedict.
himBenedict recovered in an ejectment, having proved
self to be the person meant.

Harper. The case from 10 Co. 124. is no authority.
It is the opinion of one judge only, and the other appears to have been the better lawyer. And even in that
case parol evidence must have been admitted to Ehow
that there was notanother corporation of that named
There is a difference between proving that something
was agreed which does not appear in the writing, and
proving that it was agreed that something should be inserted in the written agreement which wa omitted by
mistake. 3 Wilson, 275. lleres v. Ansel. This was a
mistake of Travis, the agent. It was agreed that the
guarantee should be by Grant to John and Yereniah, but
by mistake it was directed John and 7oseph.
3. No averment was necessary in the declaration that
John and Jeremiah were the persons meant, because it
was not necessary to set forth the written agreement in
the declaration.
4. There can be no doubt that the guarantee was general. By the very terms of the letter the defendant undertook to guaranty any engagements which "Hackett
and Grant should enter into for any transaction they
might have with the plaintiffs.
5. No notice was necessary to inform the defe'ndant
that a guarantee was necessary. The cont'act'did not
require notice.
Aartin, in reply.
Although the name of a firm sometimes continues after some.of the original partners are'dead, yet when they
sue they must declare that A. B. and C. trading under
the riame and firm of D. E. and F. &c.
So in this case, if the fact would justify them, the
plaintiffs might have declared that the defendant promised

GnANTI

_

,,

.

L

)

SUPREINI, COURT U. S.

234
GnT
NAYLoa.

plaintiffs,:trading under the naane and finn of Yor/
and Yoseph Naylor and Company.

-"
the

The plaintiffs are bound to name all the persons entitled to be joined as plaintiffs, at their peril.
The action cannot be supported by any acts done by
the plaintiffs, There can be no assumpsit in law. The
whole contract arises from thi letter. Its legal, import
must appear upon the face of it.
We offer Ao parol evidence to create.an ambiguity,
and there i none on the face of the inst'ument. The
variance is apparent upon comparing the. evidence with
the declaration.
It is true that equity will interpose in some cases of
mistake,, where it was agreed that something should be
inserted in the writing, which was not done, and the writing was drawn by the otherparty ; or whre thereis any
thing omitted th;ough. fraud, one party being illiterate,
&c. But here the plaintiffs were not bound to part with
their goods upon such a letter; it Was their own folly to
do it.. They made no mistake.
Zlarch 29.
11,TAR4TAIL, Ch.
court, as follows :

J. delivered the opinion of the

In this case three points are made by the plaintiff in

errbr on the letter which constitutes the basis of this action.

He contends,

1st. That this letter bei ng a collateral undertaking,
and being addressed to John an'd tosep/h Naylor and Co.
the plaintiffs below cannot be admitted to prove by parol testimony that it was intended for and is an assumpsit to John and .5(eremiah Naylor.
2d. That the undertaking was conditional, and required notice to be given to the writer of the intent and nattirc of his liability.

FEBRUARY, . ISQ8.

23-

3d. That it is confined to the shipments made ddring
the year in which it was written.
On the first objection the court has felt considerable
difficulty. That the letter was really designed forJohn
and Jeremiah Naylor cannot be doubted, but the principles which require that a promise to pay the debt of another shall be in writing, -and which will not permit a
written contract to be explained by parol testimony, oi.
ginate in a general and a wise policy, which this court
cann6t relax so far as to except from its bperation cases
within the principles.
Already have so mariy cases been taken out of the
statute offrauds, which seem to be within its letter, that
it may well be doubted whether the exceptions do not
let in many of the mischiefs against which the rule was
intended to guard. The best judges in England have
been of opinion that this relaxing construction of the statute ought not to be extended further than it has already
been carried, ,and this court entirely "concurs in that
opinion.
On examining the cases which have beeu cited at the
bar, it does not appear to the court that they authorise
the explanation of the contract which is attempted in

this case'.
This is not a case of ambiguity.
It is not an ambiguity patent, for the face of the letter
can excite no doubt.
It is not a latent ambiguity, for there are not two fit ms
of the name of John and Joseph Naylor and Co. to either
of which this letter might have been delivered.
It is not a case of fraud. -And if it was, a court of
chancery would probably b.e the tribunal which would,
if any could, afford redress.
If it be a case of mistake, it is a mistake of the writer
only, not of him by whom the goods were advanced, and
who claims the benefit of the promise.

GnANT
V.

NAYCLORt.

236
GRANT
NAY'.
LOR.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Without reviewing all the case which have been urged
from the bar, it may be said with confidence that no one
of them is a precedent for this.
A letter addressed, by mistake it is admittedi to one
house, is delivered to another. It contains no application or'promise to the company to which it is delivered,
but contains an application and a promise to a different
company not existing at that place. The company to
which it is delivered are not imposed upon vith respect
to the address, but knowing that the letter Was not directed to them, they trust the bearer, who came to make
contracts on his own account. In sucha case the letter
itself is not a Written c~ntract between Daniel Grant, the
writer, and John and Jeremiah Naylor, the persons to
whom it was delivered. .To admit parol proof to make
it such a contract, is going further than courts have ever
gone, where the writing is itself the contract; not evidence of a contract, and where no pre-existing obligation
bound the party to enter into it.
It being the 6pinion of a majority of the court that
John and Jeremiah Naylor could not maintain their action-on this letter, it beconies unnecessary to, consider
the other points which .were-made at the bar. It is the
opinion of this court that the circuit court erred in directing the jury that the evidence given by the plaintiffs
in that court- was proper and sufficient to support the issue on their part. The judgment of the circuit couit is,
therefore, to be reversed, *andthe cause sent back for
fui'th~r trial.
Judgment reversed.

