-SUPREMIE COURT U. S
FRNCA

V.

]BAN1K OF
COLUMBIA.

-,

any case Nhire the notice is made for the benefit of the
maker, notice to the indorser canl be dispensed with it
is only in the case of an insolvency known at the time
of indorsement.
In point of reason, justic, and the nitture of the
undertaking, there is no case. in which the indorser'is
better entitled to demand strict notice than in the case of
an indorsement for accommodation, the maker having
received the value.
•*This. cotirt is of opinion that the circuit court erred
in directing thejury that the laches of the plaintiffs, in
failing'to demand payment of the maker of the note,
and to givd notice of non-payment to the-indorser, did
not deprive.. the plaintiffs of their remedy againt tho
indorser, -and therefore thejudgment rendered in this
case is reversed, and the cause remanded for further
trial. A new,trial,, with instructions, &c,
Judgment reversed.
_W < c-

.

HOPKIRK v. BELL
HoPKIRKx

BELL.
The

THIS.case was againecrtfledfrom -the'ccuit court
for the district of Virginia.

act of

limitations of

It appeared upon the trial, in addition to the facts
stated in the former report of the case,* that Andrew
,,
tish creditor's Johnston, one of the partners of the house, trading undemand on a der' the firm of Alexander Spiers, John Bowman and
promissory
Company, of who& the lplaintiff is the surviving-partner,
note, dated *.ame to this country .after the treaty of peace in 1783,
VIZ. in'the spring of 1784, and died here in 1785, but
1772, al.
though one of that no other pirtneri of the.firm has been in this couhtry,
the plaintiff at any. time since the treaty of peace.
wvas in the
Virginais n0

bar to a Bri--

country after '
the treaty of
C..Lee for. plaintiff, cited 3 Dall. 240. 242. 281.
peace, liz. Ware v. Hylton.
. in 1784, and
remained
See ante, v6l. 3. p. 4541

FEBRUARY, 1807.

166

February28.
The court ordered it to be certified as their opinion
that, under ALL the circumstances stated, the act of

BeLI,

here untithis
limitations of Virginia'was not a bar to the plaintiff's death
in
1785.
demand on the note of 21st August, 1772.

HICKS ET AL. v. ROGERS.
ET *L.

'a cas6 certified from the circuit court Ro'r .
for the district 6f Vermont, the judges of that court, "D
being opposed in opinion upon the question, whether the
plaintiffs, devisnes of a tract of land to be equally ditjded In Vermonts
support ajointac- tenants
'conlynat
¢ in ay
•
between them, could, under the Will,
tionlof ejectment. The declaratiQn did not set forth the maint.in a
title of the plaintiffs, otherwiie than' by the'following joint action a
averment---'Of which tract or parcel of land, the plain- ejcctment.
"tiffs on the 6th day of April, in.the year of our Lord
uChrist, 6ne thousand eight hundred and four, were
"w'ell seised and possessedin thFr own right, and so
"contibued thereof possessed.until the 8th day of ApriI,
"in the year last aforesaid, wuen the defendant, with"out law or right, and contrary to' the will of the plain" tiffs, thereinto entered 'and ejected, expelled, drove
"out and amoved- the plaintiffs therefrom, ahd ever
since hath, and still doth 'keep out the plaintiffs from
the premises, taking tie whole profits to himself, which
"is to the damage of the plaintiffs six hundred dollars,
,to reebver -which, and the quiet and peaceable p6ssession of- the said preiies, and just costs, they bring
"this suit."
T-IIS w

Bradley, (of Vermont,) for the plaintiffs, contended,
1st. Thatby the common law of ermont, th words
"equally to be divided between them," do not make a
tenancy in common, be'.'ause a tenancy in cpmmon is
not thereby necessarily implied. Joint heirs in Vermont hold as coparceners.
The nonourable V. Paterson, late associate justice of the sa-.
prerne court of the United States, and the honourable Elijah Paine,
district judge.

