VEBRUARY, 1807.

131'

those who have been charged.with treason to be proper
objets for punishment, they will, when possesied of less
exceptionable testimony, and when able to say at what
place the offence has been committed, institute fresh proceedings against them.

E: PALTr
BOLLHA.

SKILLERN'S EXECUTORS v. MAY'S
EXECUTORS.

SrZLL5UN'S
Ei'ns

SWA.RT.
wonT.

V.

Mxy's E'.

ERROR to the district court of the United States
for the district of Kentucky, in chancery.

If the obligee of a bond,
ubt,dn titleg
in his own

The facts of the case, as they appear upon the re- name for part
of the lands,
cord, are as follow:
the

Skillern put into the hands of Richard May several
land-warrants to locate in Kentucky, under an agreeInent -that May should have half the land for locating
the whole, who accordingly located the quantity of
2,500 acres i-i the name of Skiler, but not to his satisfaction, and the matter was not settled between them
at the time of R. May's death, when his interest in the
lTnds so located descended to his son, John May, the
defendants' testator. Skillern afterwards came to an
agreement with John May, on the 6th of March, 1785,
by which Skillern was to assign•lend
to J. May one military
warrant for 200 acres of land, Iand all the treasury warrants located in the name of Skillern, with the entries
and locations made thereon, which assignment was on
the same day executed, but never lodged in the landoffice, or the office of the surveyor of the county where

n!si n-

mentnfwhichh

to te obligor

was the considlration of
sufertebnand
the ti.
ties to the re-

silue of the
be
lands
lost byto the
non.payment
of taxes, a
court of equi.

tend i iadnot
to
carry into effect a judgment atthelaw
upon
bnd.
A court of

In consideration of this as- equitywilansignment, and in full of all demands by Skillern against which
nut a contract
the dethe representatives of R. May's estate, John May gave fendant has
the lands were situated.

to Skillern a bond, dated Malch 6th, 1785, to convey failed to per-

to Skillern 1,000 acres of the land to which R. May was form,andcan.
not perform,
entitled at his death, and which remained unsurveyed, on his part.
to be chosen by Skillern before the lsth of June, 1786.

138

SUPREME COURT U. S.

-It was also agreed by another writing of the same datw,
that if Skillern would give up the bond for 1,000 acres)
V .
i.,.. John May should convey to him 1,100 acres of other
ld 'described in the writing, and Skillern was to make
his election of the one or the, other befoie the 'lot of
October, 1786. This last agreement was afterwards
cancelled, and.a bond in lieu thereof given by J. May
to Skillern, dated October the 9th, 1787, to convey to
the latter, on-or before the 1st of December, 1788,
" eleven hundred acres of first rate elk-horn land, well
watered, and lying within ten miles of Lexitgton."

!J[iL.ZRN'S

Eg'as

Skillern, notwithstanding the assignmeiit of his military and treasury warrants to J. May, afterwards obtained patents thereon for 1,050 acres, of the value of
4,416 dollars 66 cents.
There was no evidence that Skilern ever offered to
convey those lands to May, or his representatives.
The bond of 6th of March, 1785, and that of the
9th of October, 1787; were both fraudulently placed by
Skillern in the hands of his agent, for the purpose of
enforcing payment of both. The agent, supposing bot1h
bonds to be due, entered into an agreement with J.
May's executors, the present defendants, for the dis.
chargeof the bond of 6th* of March, 1'85, and the
same was given.tap by Skillern's agent to the defendantss
with a receipt thereon. But the agent finding afterwards that the bond of 6th of March, 1785, wits vacated
by that of the 9th of October, 1787, refused .to carry
that agreement into effect, but brought 'n rtion of covenant upon the condition of th last mentioned bond,
and recovered damages to the amount of 8,433 dollars
and 33 cents.
John May devised his lands to his executors for the.
payment of hisr debts, and this bill was brought by
Skillern, in his life-time, to subject the same to the
payment of the judgment recovered at law. Pending
this suit in chancery, Skillern died, leaving infant
heirs, and the suit was revived in the name of his executors. Sixty acres, part of the 1,050 acres, had been
sold for the payment of the staic tax due fron Skil-

IEBRUARY, 1o807.
lrni and the two'tracts of.300, and,250 acres, had
been sold for the direct tax due to the United States,
but were redeemed by the purchaser of the 60 acres.

After the filing of this bill, and after the death of
Skillern, John May's-executors filed a cross bill against
Skillern's executors, and it was agreed that both suits
should be -tried at the same time.
The court below decreed a perpetual injunction as to
4,416 dollars 66 cents, part of the" judgment at law,
the same being the value of the 1,050 acres patented in
the name of Skillern, and decreed payment of the residue out of the real estate of John May, unless it
should be otherwise paid, by a day nanled .in thu decree.
Bothtparties sued out their writ of error.
H. Clay, for Skillern's executors.
C. Lee, for Mav's executors.
4t was contended, in behalf of May's executors,
lst.'hat inasmuch as both bonds, viz. that for 1,000
acres, and that for 1,100 acres, were given for one. and
the..same consideration, a discharge of either was, in
equity, a discharge of both ; and that having discharged the first bond'by, a new engagement, the executors of Skillern could not, in. iequity, claim .atisfactiou
of either.

2dly. That Skillern having taken to his own use part
of the lind which he had agreed to assign to Ma als
a consideration of the bonds, could not enforce thegn in,
equity.
adly. That as Skillern had suffered a part of the lands
to be'lost, by not paying the taxes, he had thereby
made himself chargeable for the lands, and had in fact
received a full equivalent-for the consideration of the
bonds ; and.therefore there ought to have been"a decree
for a perpetual injunction -asto the whole amount of the

SsIxzma's

Ex'Ias

.

140

SUPREME COURT V. S.

judgment at law ; especially as the tact of fraud on the
part of Skillern is expressly found by the jury. The
MAv'sEx's. half of'2,500 acres was all he wa. entitled to, if his
Sconduct
had.been fair. But as it has been found otherwise by a jury, a court of chancery ought not -to have
given its aid to enforc6 any pqrt of the judgment at
law.
SkrtiE.za's
EX'RS

For .Sllern'i executors it was said, that it was not
in the power of Skillern alone to put an end to the contract. That by surveying and patenting the lands, he
had saved them from forfeiture for not surveying within the time limited by law. That although the lands
had been sold for taxes, yet the redemption enured to
the benefit of the right owner.
The jury found .the value of the 1,050 acres of land,
but not the value of the title. The land may be worth
fifteen dollars an acre, but 'the tte may be worth nothing.
The patents had issued by mistake in the name of
Skillern, and that mistake was' owing to May's not
having filed the assignmeit in the proper office. Skillern's executors are ready and willing to transfer those

tides to the defendants.
Tuis COURT gave no other opinion in this case than
is expressed in the following decree.
"

It is the opinion of the court that G. Skillern, by

acquiring to himself the legal estate to 1,050 acres of
!and, the equitable right to which he had transferred
to John May on the 6th of March, 1785, (and having
never conveyed or offered to convey the said lands to
May or to his legal representatives,) and it appearing
that at the time of the decrees rendered in these causes,
certain parts of the said entries to which Skillern had
thus acquired the legal title, and which constituted a
part of the consideration of the bond on which the
judgment at law was entered, had been lost in conse-

quence of the neglect of Skillrn to pay the taxes due
thereon, the complainants below in the original suit
were not entitled to the aid of a court of equity to en-

FEBRUARY. 187.
force the execution of the obligation of the 9th of Oc- SmiLLznm'5
El'ns,
"
V
tober, 1787, or to obtain satisfaction of the judgment
at law founded thereon.
MAY's Ex'as.
" It is therefore decreed-and ordered, that the decree
of the district court rendered in the original cause be
reversed and annulled with costs; and this court doth
remand the same to the said district court for further
proceedings to be had therein, in order that an qqual
and just partition of the 2,500 acres of land mentioned
in the said assignment of the 6th of March, 1785, be
made between the legal representatives of the said
George Skillem and the said John May.
" And as to so much of the decree in the cross-suit
as enjoins 4,4i6 dollars 66 cents, phrt of the judgment
at law, this court doth affirm the same, and as to the
residue of the said decree, it is decreed and ordered,
that the same be reversed and annulled, with costs;
and this court, proceeding to give such decree in the
said cross-suit as the said district court ought to have
given, it is further decreed and ordered, that the judgment at common law mentioned in the said bill be perpetually enjoined."
-04a.-

',FRENCH'S EXECUTfIX v.THE BANK
OF COLUMBIA.

Faw:ca

V,
Co z.uxunl. .

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Colum- The ir:"e
of
p~roissobia, sitting at Washington.
ry anote
for the
accoinino4t-

This was an action of assumpsit upon the promissory. tion or the
, ennote of W. M. Duncanson, payable to George French titlt:4 to Isstrict
or order, and by him indorsed to the plaintiffs for notc't.
1,400 dollars at 60 days, dited October 10th, 1798, and if the drawof A bil of.
ei
due December 9th-l2th.
excharige.m at
the time of

On the trial at law in the cou't b'elow, the plaintiff in drawing, haz
error took a bill of exceptions which stated the following a right to ex-

