FEBRUARY, 18o8.

241

ing, 'that the plaintiff had a dear right of action upon
the sealed instrument; he might aver in his declaration
that he had, in part, performed the work,* and was
ready to do the rest, but was prevented by the defendant.. And Whenever a man may bav. an action on
a sealed instrument, he is bound to resort to it.

Youino

TOM.
P XV.

Judgment reversed.

ROSE v. IHIMELY.

to.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the circuit It a claim
set up un.
court for the district of South Carolina, which reversed be
dr the senthat of the district judge, wh9 awarded restitution, to tence or con.
Rose the libellant, of certain goods, part of the cargo of demnation oF
acorei
foreign
the Americn .schoonerSarah.
court

-will

This vessel-after tradiiig with the brigands, or rebels examine into.
Qf St. Domingo, at several of their ports, sailed from tle ju diction or such

thence, with a cargo purchased the*e, for the United court; and if
States; andhadproceeded more than ten leagues from the thatcour can.
coast of St. Domingo, when she was arrested by a not, c--itFrench privateer, on the 23d of- February, 1804, car- e2
ntfYnth
ried into the Spanish port of Barracoa, in the island of exercise the
Cuba; and there, 'with her cargo sold by the captors, jurisdiction
on the. 18th of March, 1804, before condemnation, but *hich it has
ito
of sai,
a person
under authority,. as. it i-as said,
entence is to
pes n who styled assumed
. was
ofa
himself agent bf the government of St. Domingo, at St. be disregardJ7ago de Cuba. The.greater part of the cargo was pu:- eir but o "
chzsed by
Colt, the master of an American theion,.
vessel called the Ex&m ple, into which vessel the goods far as it da.
were clandestinely transferred from the Sarah, in the pends u on
night timiei, and brought into the port of Charleston, in nuni6P?
South Carolina, wheretheyweie followed by Rose, the /am:, oie
supercargo of the Sarah; who filed a libel against them, rycountry are
in behalf of the former'owners, complaining of the the excl|sive
of
ry sentence
unlawful seizure on the high seas, afidpraying lbrresto- Judges.
Eve.
ration -fthe goods : whereupon process was issued, and condemnation
by a compe.
tent cbtrt,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the goods were arrested by the marshal, on the 4th of
f.ay, 1804. No teps appear tohave been taken by the
v,L
FrenLh captors, towards obtaining a condemniationof the
having juris- vdssel, until time enough had elapsed for them to rediction over ceive informAtion of the proceedings against the goods
the subject in this country. The forms of adjudication were begun
matter of its
juclgmnt, in the tribunal of the first instance' at Santo Damingo,
conclusive as in July, 1804, and the condemnation was had before
to the title to the'middle of that.month.
Rosz

the thing

claimed

un-

This condemnation purports to be made conformably
der it.
The prohi. to the first article of the arrete of the captain general
bition, by
(Ferr nd).of the
of szst
teearss

ch, 1804, .which was issued
. ds
six days subsequent to the seizure of the vessel.
trade with
the revolted
blnbks of SanThis artidle was -as follows; "The port of Santo DoYrance, ofall

to
was Domingo,
an exer-

mingo is the only one of the colony of Santo Domingo,
cise of a mrn- open to-French and foreign commerqe; consequently
niceaf, not of "every 'vessel anchored in the bays, coves and landing
a belligerent
places of the coast occupied by the revolters, those
right; and " destined for the ports in their possession, and coming:
"9out v ith or without •cargoes; and generally every

der that
prohibition

"

withinere

"(except between cape

two

vesstL sailing- witbin the trritorial extjnt of the island,
Raphael, and'the bay. f Ocoa,)

fopnd at -a less distance 'than two leaghies from thd
leagues of the "'coast, shall be arrested by.-the vessels of the state,
coasts of that ),, and by privateers bearing our.letters of marpte, who.
c
island..
shall conduct them, as much as-possible, into the port
.Aseizure
beyond the " of Santo Domingo, that t.he confiscation of tho said
limits of the -"vessels and cargoes may be pronounced."
territorial ju.

risdictin, for
breach of a

On the 6th of-September, 1806, ho sentence of con-

municipal re- denonation havingbeen jroduced in evie ntce, the.judge

gulation,is not of'the district court decreed restitutton~ofthe property to
warranted by

the law of na- the libellant, from which sentenbe the other party appeal-

-tioni; and

edto -the'cirquitcQtIrt, ad there produced the sentence

such " a sei: of c6nlemnation, by the tribuni
af"therst
zure

instance,

cannot

give jurisdid- at Santo Dondnk-o. The circuit court reversed the sen.
tion to the tence bf the district court, and dismissed the libel,*
courts of the
offiended

country; es-

The-reasons of the circuit coukt are stated by Judge Johnson,

pecially if the . ten
property seiz- its sea ten.e, see Appeadix, note (0).'
ed, be never.

carried with-

FEBRUARY, 1808..

243

From this sentence, the libellant appealed to this

Rosz

Court. ".Hzazr.
For the libellant, the case was argued by C. Lee, liar- in its terr;to.
per, S. Chasejur. Dalas,Rawle, Ingersoll, and Dray- ral juadicwhe-t Quoere,
n
ton, and
ther a French
re'spondent, by Duponceau, E. Tilghman, and court can,
. For the
4
$i~artin.
consistently
with tL la",
of nutions,
For the libellant, it was contended,
and the treaty, condemn

1. That this was not a seizure as prize of-oar, but American
as a forfeiture for violation of the municifpal law ofr P
c-d
into the doFrance, and
m~nions of
France, and
2. That whether it were seized jure belli, or jure
while l.ng, in

dvii, it was not competent for the court, sitting at a pvrt of the
United States.

? This case was argued in' connexion with the case of PRose v.
Groening, which was a libel forN another part of the cargo of the
Sarah; and with the case of La Font v. Bigelop, .from Maryland,
which was an action f repkevin by the original owner nf goods condemned by the tribunal at Santo Domingo,- under similar circumstances;- and with the case of Hudron and Smith v. Gueatier, also
from Afa-yland, which was trover for 'the cargo of the Sea Flower,
condemned upon similar grounds; and with the case of Palmer and
Bigginr v. Dotilgh, from Pennsylvania, which was replecin for the
cargo of the brig Ceres, condemned under similar circumstances ;
and with the case of Puyment v. The Brig Ceres, which was a libel
* in the district court of the United States w. Philadelphia, for restorationof the vessel. These cases were all supposed to depend on
the same questions, and byconsent of counel, with leave of the
court, were argued as one cause. This accounts for the great
number of the counsel employed, and for the great length of the
argument, which consumed nine days.
Upon the opening of these cases, six judges being present, it
appeared that three of the six judges had given opinions in the circuit court upon the principal points which were about to be argued,
and that if each judge who had given an opinion, should withdraw
from the bench, as bad bebn customary heretofore, there would not
remain a quorum to try the cause. It was thereupon agreed by all
the judges that they would sit. Chase, Yohnaon, and Livingston,
fustcez, expressed themselves strongly against the practice of a
judge's leaving the bench because lie had decided the case in the
&ouit below. Washington, yustice, said lie should not insist npan
the practice, if it should be generally abamoned by the judges.
The -whole 7ix judges (Todd, gustice, being absent) sat in the
cause; so that the practice of refiring seems to be abaiidoied.

244
Rosa

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

.Santo Domingo, to condemn the property, while it was
in a neutral f6reign port.
1st. Point.
This is not a case of prize of war, but of municipal
forfeiture.
The tribunal of the first instance was a municjpal
court ; and it is doubtful whether it had cognizance of
questions 6f prize of war. But if it had a general prize
jurisdiction, it could not, consistently with our treaty
with Fr~ince, (Ldws U. S. vbl. '6. p. 34. art. 22.) condemn a prize not carried into a French port. The words
of the article are," "it is further agreed that, in all cases,
,the established courts for prize causes, in the coun" iry to which the prizes may be conducted, shall alone
"take cognizance. ofthm." Hence itis to be inferred,
that as they could not consistently with the treaty, take
cognizance of the case as prize of war, they themselves
must have considered it as a mere seizure, for violation
of a municipal.regulation. It is characteristic ofprize of
war, that- it is done with a view to annoy an eiemy.
When a neutral violates his neutrality, he becomes.
quoadhoc, an ally to the enemy, and the ground of condemnation'is alvays as enemy property. But here was
no feature of public war. It was merely an ingurrection.
All the world considered the blhcks of St. Domingo as
revolted subjects. Our government has acknowledged
the right of France. to legislate over those colonies. The
French arrete is not a measure of war, but of government; and is a mere municipal regulation to enforce
obedience to her laws, and for.the reduction of:the insurgents. The law of France rendered' the trade illicit,
but aseizure for illicit trade, is not the exercise of a
right of war. It had no relation to a state of war; and
miight have been passed, if the most profound peace had
existed droughoutthe wdrld.
In tlie year 1802, France, Spain,. 'and England were
at-peace with each bther, and with all the world. The
prodeedings'o.f France against her revolted colonies,
were of a-civil nature; at least they were'so considered
by her. (See Bonaparte's letter to Touqsaint, and Le

FEBRUARY, Lo8.

245

CleriC's letter of .November, 1802, and his address to the
people of St. Domingo.)

Toussaint also considered him-

self as holding under the government of France, and to
show his confidepce, left his children in France as hostages.
" The tribunals In Santo Doming-o, were the ordinary

tribunals of'municipal jurisdiction, and not exclusively
courts of prize. Their jurisdiction depended upon the
ar-etes of the consuls of France, of the 18th of rune,
and 2d of October, 1802,0 (a time of profound peace,)

The -following is the arrete of 18th ofJune, I2.
"Arrete of the consuls concerning the mode of administration
of civil and criminal justice in the colonies restored to France by the
treaty of Amiens.
cc The consuls, &c on the report, &c. decree:
" 1. In the colonies restored to France bythe treaty of Amiens of
6th Germinal last, (27th March, 1802,). the tribunals which existed
in 1789, shall continue to administer justice in civil as well as criminal matters, according to the forms of proiceedings ,. laws, regulations, and tables of fees then observed, and so that nothing be innovated as tG the organization, jurisdiction and compete ce of the said
tribunals.
c, 2. The denominations of seneschalsea, admiralty and royal j.irisdiction courts, shall be supplied by that of tribunal of te~fret in,tance; but from this change of denomination no rhlige is to he
inferred as to the jurisdiction of the ancient tribunals, and particulary of the courts of admiralty,
"3. The public niinistry shall be exercised by commissaries or
the government and thei" substitutes.
. 0-4. There shall be provided a special regulation for the changes
to be made in the present tribunals at Tobago.
"5. Judgments shall run in the name of the French Republic.
"6. The members of the tribunals sliall .he provisionally nominated according to the requisite forms, by the captain general. Ile
3hall receive from each of them a promise of fidelity to the French
republic." *

Ross
.

2146
Rosa

SUPREME COURT U. S.

and which refer to the year 1789, a time when Franco
was algo at peace with all the world. There was then
no necessity of a prize court. and neither of those
The following is the arrete of 2d October, 18Nz.
,, Arrete for regulating the forms to be observed for the proceedings and iudgment of contraventions to the laws concerning foreign
commerce in the colonies.
"The consuls, &c. on the report, &c. ddcree:
" 1. The contraventions io the dispositions of the lawli and regulations concerning fbreign commerce in the colonies lhall be proceeded on and adjudicated in the form herein aftermentioned.
" 2. Thie instrudtion (proceedirge in ireparatorlo) " andfirajudg.
menr shall belong to the ordinary tribunal f the place where the prind
shall have been conducted, subject to an appeal in all cases to special
commissioners, who shall pronounce in the last.resort.
" The saidI inatruction shall be made summarily and 'on simple
memoirs.
"3. Within the extent of each captain.generalship, the commission shall be composed of the captain-general, the colonial prefect,
the commissary of justice,'or the grand judge , and in case of impediment of any of them, then'of a substitute (celui qui It remblace)
bnd be.ides, of three members of the court of appeal, chosen for
each cause by the captain-general.
[Here follows a particular regulation a&to

obago.]

4. In case of a division-of opinions, that of the president .hall'
preponderate.
5. The inspector of the marine, or the officer of admipistration
doing the duty of inspector, shall, ofright, exercis the fAtnctions of'
the public ministry in the said commission of appeal.
"The functions of clerk shall be exercised by a secretary appoint
ed for that purpose by the captain-general.
"6. As to the residue, the ancient laws shall be executed, so far
as they are not altered by the present 'egulation.
"7. The minister of the marine and the colonies is charged with
the execution of the present arrete, which shall be inserted in the
bulletin ofthe laws.

(signed)

"BONAPARTE."

FEBRUARY,

1808.

arretes allude particularly tothe insurrection ofthe blacks.
That of 2d October, 1802, relates generally to the
smuggling trade of the colonies ; and refers to the ancient'laws, not tothe laws of war; but the municipal laws.
From thejurisdiction of the court, then, it cannot be
inferred that this was *a case of pi ize of war; nor will
such an inference be drawn from the colonial regulations
respecting the trade.
The first of these is the arrete of the captain-general,
dated the 22d of June, 1802,* which is entirely municipal, aild applies as wel to French as to foreign vessels,
and is imited in its operation, to within two leagues of
the coast.
The next is that of the 9th of October, 1802, which
is to the same effect.
The last is that of Ist March, 1804, which as to these
cases was clearly ex post facto, but if applicable at all,
shows itself to be merely an exercise of a municipal
right. The sentence of condemnation itself, does not
pretend to consider the vessel as prize of war, but as
a seizure made forthe violation of those municipal regiulations of-trade, which it recites. The order that the
proceeds should be distributed according to the laws respecting prizes, would have been unnecessary, if it had
been a case of prize, to which those laws would have applied independent of the order.
There would have been a gross inconsistency in France
treating the revolters as rebels, and yet claiming that other
nations should consi4er them as acknoi:edged eneniael.
Yet before France can claim the rights of war from neutrals, in regard to the insurgents of St. Domingo, she must

The ISth article of that arretc, which is the onl) atcle referred
to in the sentence of condemnation, is as follows;
c Every vesse], French or foreign, which shall be found by the

vessels of the republic anchored in any of the ports of the island not
dlesignated by these presents, or within the bays, coves, or landings
of the coast, or under sail at a distance less than two leagues from
the shore, and communicating with the land, shall be anremted and
confiscated.'

Vol. IV.

Ii

Roar

v

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RosE

V.

HIMEtLY.

admit them to be enemies, and not rebe.ls. If they are
independent, and France is at -oar with them, France
can claim from us only the rights which war gives. We
shall have a clear right to trade with them, unless in dontraband 6f war, orto blockaded ports.
It either is, or is not, prize of war. -There are only two
sides to the question. Prize is a seizure jure belli.
There must be a -warto raise a question of prize., No
open war then existed with anv nation. It is said that
by aiding rebels we make a common'cause with them;
but the assistance, to justify such an inference, must be
the act of the nation, not the unauthorised act of individuald. Until the year 1806, ;he United States had
never declared the trade to be unlawful; nor did France
require our government to take notice of the trade, until
the fall of 1805. The law of nations does not authorise
the seizUre and confiscation of the property of foreigners trading with rebels. No authority tothat effect has
been cited from any writer upon that law. A state has,
by the laor of nations, a-right to'regulate its own.trade.
A parent state may chuse to exercise a greater or less
degree of severity, with regard to th6 trade of its colonies. England did not,, until V776, wholly prohibit
trade with her North American colonies. The statute
of 16 Geo. III. c. 5. prohibiting such trade, would have
bei, alt.ogethei useless, -ifsuch trade had been unlawful
in consequence of the rebellion. It declares "that all
manner of tradeand commerce "is and shnll.be prohibited with the colonies of New-Hampshire," &c. (naming
the colonies,)' and that all ships and vLssels of or belonging to the bzlhabitants of the said colonies, together with
their eargoes," &c. " and all other ships and vessels
whatsoever, with their cargoes," &c. " which shall be
found, trading in any port or place., of the said colonies, or going to trade, or conting fromn trading, in
any such port or place, shall become forfeited to his
majesty, as if the same were the ships and effects of
ofeh enerihes, and shall be so adjudged, deemed and
taken, in all the courts of admiralty, and in all other
courts whatsoever."
'The French arrctes limit thi' right of seiiure, to the
jurisdiction; but if they hd.
extent of their territorial
I

FEBRUARY, 1805.

249

claimed a right under the law of nations, they would
have authorised seizures as well on the highseas, =
within two leagues of the coast.
The title of the arrete of general Ferrand,of the 10th
Fentose, year 12, (1st March, 1804,) which is referred io
in the sentence of condemnation is, "an arrete relative
to vessels taken ihi contravention to the dispositions of
the laws and regulations concerning the french and foreign commerce- with .the colonies," and, the reasbn
of passing the arrete, is stated it the pieamble to be)
"that some of the French agents in the allied andneighbouring islands, had mistaken the application of the
laws and regvlations concerning vessels taken in contravention, upon the coasts.of Santo Domingo, occupied by the- rebels, - and had confounded these prizes
with those made upon the enemies of the state; wishing
to put an end to the abuses which tinay result therefrom, and which are as derogatory to the territorial
sovereignty, as they are to neutral rights," &c. &c.
thus
clearly taking a distinction in terms, between these
municipal
seizures, and prizes of war. The 8th article
also speaks of acquitting the accusedof the contravention, and the sentence of the appellate court, speaking
of its jurisdiction, describes it thus "for pronouncing
in the last resort upon appeals, from.judgments rendered in the first instance, by the provisional commission of justice, sitting in the town of Santo Domingo,
upon prizes made by the vessels of the state, and
by French privateers upon neutrals, taken'in contravention of the liws and regulations, concerning the
smuggling trade of the colony," (a loccasion des frises
faites par les batiments de 'etat et par les corsaires
Frangbis, sur les neutres pris en contravention, aux
lois et reglemens concernant le commerce interope de Ia
colonie.)
If this trade was illegal by the law of nations, there
was no necessity for these French laws upon the subject.
2d. Point.
Whether the seizure werc made as prize of war, or
for violating a municipal law of trade, it was not comnpe-

Rosr
V.

.250

Hlos
HIVML?.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

.tent for the court'sitting ht Santo Domingo, to condemn
-the property while lying in aforeijn neutralport.
No title -cou d vest in the purchaser by a-sale, without a condemnationi ; although, perhaps, a subsequent
legal condemnation might relate back to the time of the
sale, 2nd vest a legal title in the purchaser. But the
condemnation of the property in this case could not be a
legal condemnation, while the property was not only ii
South Caroliia,.but actually in the custody of our law.
It:had-got back to the country of its original owner, who
had claimed the protection of our laws.
The mere capture, even by a belligerent and jure bellt,,
does not divest the title of the property out of the neutral owner; but an order or sentence of some competent
tribunal is necessary for that purpose.
The title of the captor, before condemnation, does
not extend beydndl'his actual possession; and if he loses
or quits the possession, his title is entirely gone. Here
hd been a change of possession before condemnation.
If a captured vessel escape before condemnation, the
title revests in the former owner. 4 Rob. 50. The Henrick and Maria. Collection of Sea Laws, 629. 8 T.R.
Haviloch v. Rockwood. 1 Rob. 114. The Fiad Oyen.
2"Bu-. 693. Goss v. Withers. Institute 2. 1. 17.
-Although new evidence may be lidmitted upon the
appeal, yet the sentence of condemnation in this case,
ought not to. havebeen admitted, because it was not the
sentence of a competent tribunal., The question of competence is alhays open, whatever may be the law, as to
the con'clusiveness of a foreign sentence. The court at
Santo Dom.ingo had no jurisdiction over thiscoffee.
Inco6petence, may arise from want ofjurisdiction, as
fo the subject of litigation, or as to the place where the
tribunal sits: Neither by the law of nations, nor by
treaty, could it condemn property while it was in the
custody of.our laws, and in contest in our courts. Even
if the property, had been' in France, it is very doubtful
whether the.court of Santo Domingo could have condemned it. The proceeding was in rem, and from the
nature' of things, the res, the thing against which the

FEBRUARY, 1 Os.

251

suit is instituted, ought to be within the power and jurisdiction of the court before which It is .tried ; it ought
at Jeasi to be in -the same country. If it be a case of
mere municipal jurisdiction, the court cannot proceed if
the thing-be in-the coutitry even of an ally; for an ally
in a war, is not an ally as to the' execution of the municipal latvs of the co-ally. Suppose a seizure to be made
by Spaih, for an illicit trade in contravention of her municipal laws, and the vessel never carried into a Spanish
port, but'into a -Frenchport. The Spanish court couldnot proceed. One cojpntry will not enforce the municipal laws of another. , In this country nc court has
jurisdiction in rem, unless the thing be within its jurisdiction. So by our treaty with France, no court hqs
jurisdiction of a cause of prize but the court of the
place or country to which the prize was carried. But
here the vessel was carried
court.to a Spanish country, and
condemned in a French
This Court has an undoubted right to examine into
-the competency of the court whose sentence is produced
in evidence. -That question was decided in the case of
Glass v. Gibbs, (The Betsey,) 3 Dall. 7.-and if not competent, this court will disregard its sentence.
Sir W. Scott, in a great number of cases, has looked

into the question of the competency and jurisdiction of
the court, and inquired whether the court proceeded
according to the law of nations. 1 Bob. 142. .The FHad
Oyen. 8 T. R?. 270. Havilock v. Rochwood and 2
Rob. 172. The Christopher.
In the case of Sheafe & Tuinerv. A parcel of sugars,

in the circuit court of South Carolina, in 1800, the sugars, it is said, were carried into a Spanish port and
condemned in a French port; but Spain was then an.
ally of France, and the capture -wasjure belli.
When it is said that a neutral court has no cognizance
of prize, it means that a neutral court cannot interfere
be.tween belligeients, but not that a neutral court shall
not interfere between a belligerent and one of its own
,neutral citizens. 3 Rob. 82. TheKierlighett. 2 Rob'239.
The Peerseverance. Of what use is, a treaty, if a sen-

Rosm
H
HU'".

SUPREME COURT U. S.
tebce contrary to that treaty is to be respected by the
. ,nation
whose rights are thereby violated . In 1 ayne
v. Walter, Parh, 414. 'PollardIv. Bett,' 8 T. R. 437'.
and Birdv. Appliton, 8. T. R. 562. it is decided that a
condemnation grounded upon an arbitrary arrdte is
void. Browne (Civ. Law, vol. 2. p. 332.) says, that
where the proceeding is in rem, i t must be where the
thing is; Tfie powers 6f condemnation and of restoration belong to the same court. It must have the possession of the thing in nrder to restore it.

Rosz

The court is said to proceed instanter, velo levato.
If the court of Santo Domingo had decreed restitution,
it could not have enforced" its decree. In'the case of
the .-[enrich and Maria,, 4 Rob. 52. Sir William Scott,
while he acknowledges' that kthe. English practice has
been to condemn vessels lying, in a neutral port, seems
to expIress a wish that -the superior court would recall
the practice' to the proper purity of the principle. In
p 46. he says, that "*upon principle it is not to be asserted that i ship, brought intd a neutralport, 'is, with
eiTect, proceeded against in the 6 elligerent country.
The res ipsa, the corpus, is not itbhin the possession of
the court ; and possession, in such, casc, founds jurisdiction."'
It was upon this pure principle that the 22d article. of
the French convention was 'fbunded. "It is'no argument
to sa, that the courts of each nation must have an equal
right to expound that conyention, and that if we think
their construction' incorrect, we must apply to governmen t for redress. If application were to be made to
government, we should be sent back again to our courts
of law ; and not until it should be there pronounced
that the Frevch construction was incorrect, would 'our
governmentsaake applkation to that of France for redress. In case of rescue or e.cape, the government is
never bound to restore. The capturing nation takes
redies in its, own way, and by its own strength, and
cannot require the aid' of our arm. The penal laws of a
foreign country can affect only the property in its
power, (1 H. Bl. 134, 135.) and cannot be executed by
'the courts of another. 2 Wash. 295. 298. Nthnicipal
law cannot malke prize' of war. 2 Dl4l. 4. 3 Dall. 71.

FEBRUARY, 1808,

253

and if the thing be not within the jurisdiction of the
court, it cannot proceed. 3 Dali. 86. It must at least
be in'the country of the captor or of his-ally. 2 Browncs
Civ; L=, 268.
No property can be acquired by capture, unless it be
tarried iifrapresida, i. e. into the ports of the enemy
of the captured ; and according to Lee, the ports of an
ally will not answer. Lee on Captures, 87. to 96. A
capture cannot give a'titlet, unless it be of enemy's property. 2 Daull.'2. 34. The case of Wheehrig,!t v. De.
peyster, 1 Johnson, 471. was in all its circumstances
exactly like the resent, and the supreme court of NewYork decided the court at Santo Domingo to be incompetent to condemn a vessel lying at St. Jago de Cuba.
Spain 1was not an ally in the war. She profiessed to be
neutral, -and was bound to neutral duties. (See her
own declaration to her subjects, dated the 10th of September, 1804, and her manifesto and declaration of war
of 10th of December, 1804, in the New Annual Rc-e
gister of that year.) 'Although there was a treAty of
alliance between her ahd France, yet by the terms of
that treaty Spaii. was, not bound to assist France util
called upon; and France had-not then demanded her
aid. She was therefore neutral, and was bound to refraim from giving any direct aid to either of the belligerents. But to allow one belligerent to carry prizeinto'her ports, and deposit them there for safe keping,
is a violation of neutrality-it is a'direct aid. Spain'
did wrong to permit this kind of deposit, and therefore
no right car be derived from. it. It is not always necessary to make application to government for redress
by negotiation or war. If the title derived from the
captor be- bad, and the thing is brought within the jurisdiction of our courts, it is Gompetent foe those courts
to give redress, and restore the thing to its lawful
owner. But when a neutral becomes an ally, she is no
longer bound to perform these neutral duties, she becomes a partner in the war, and is bound to beigerent
duties. She is bound to give her aid to her co-belligerent. The exdeption of, the country of an ally, therefore, strengthens the general rule, that the property
cannot be lawfully conddmned while lying in a ucutral
country.

Ro-c

254
X sz
V.

HIM gLy.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The possession of one ally is quoadhoc'the posseisiore

of the other.

Proceedings for forfeitures are always proceedings in
rem ; and to make them valid, it is always necessary
that the court should have possession of the thing. Possession is the foundation of all its proceedings. How can
it condemn what is not in its power to give ? Or how
restore what is not within its controul ? This principle
applies as universally to captures jure beli, as to seizures
for municipal offences. If this be a municipal qizure,
it is immaterial whe*ther Spain was an ally in the war or
not ; because she could not be an ally -as to municipal
off.,nces. One ally never gives up offenders against the
municipal laws of the other, unless bound so to do by'
treaty. One ally is not bound to aid the other in maintaining the authority df its own laws. So if property
be carried to the country of one ally, the laws of the
other cannot reacli it. the former is not bound to give
it up to the latter, nor to enforce its municipal judgments or decrees.
The arrete-of 2d October, 1802, gives the jurisdiction only to " the ordinary tribunal of the place where
the prize shall have been conducted;" so that by the lex
loci the court at Santo Domingo had no jurisdictioi,
even if the vessel had laid at another French port.
Captors gain no right by mere capture. Whatever is
requiredjutre befli, belongs to the sovereign. No title
is gained until condemnation. 3 Rob. 193. -France
herself, when neutral, will not permit a belligerent to
detain his prize in, her ports more than 24 hours. 2
.Azuni, 256. A man can -sell only what he has. But
the captor, bpfore condemnation, had at most a right
of possession. The right is said to be in abeyance,
subject to the chance of recapture, and to thejus postlininii. If it be said that jus postliminii does iot apply to neutrals, we say, that when a belligerent treats
a neutral as an enem),, the latter becomes entitled to
belligerent rights." If rescued, what becomes of the
right aeqtdired by capture ? There is no instance of a
condemnation after such a rescue, nor of a complaint to

FEBRUARY, 18o8.

255

the government of the neutral. The rule in all cases
of sale of captured goods is, caveat emptor.
On the part of the respondent (the purchaser under
the sale at Barracoa.) it wad admitted that there were
only two questions in the case, viz.
1. Whether the vessel was seized jure bell, or in en.
ecution of'municipal laws?
2. Whether the condemnation by a court in Santo
Domingo, while the vessel was in a Sp~anish port, was
4 legal condemnation'?
1. The condemnation was iqrexercise of belligerent
rights, and not for violation of a municipal 'law.
England, during the contest with these states, always
claimed and exercised the rights of war. France never
complained, even before sbe became a party. So France
is to be considered as a belligarent with respect to
Hayti." There were armies on both sides, arrayed
against each other, fighting battles, taking towns, aid
carrying on a war in fact. It was not a trifling and
partial insurrectibn, but a most cruel and bloody war.
It was a civil, or rather a servile war, but not to be distinguished -from other wars as io belligerent rights.
The non-intercourse fict passed by congress in 1798 or
1799, if it had stood alone, might have been considered as a municipal regulation; but connected with other
facts, it was taken by this court to be an act -of the
partial war then waging against France. So the act of
the British -parliament, in 1776, prohibiting all trade
with the North American colonies, was an act of war.
The word war was not used, because Ehgland, as a
matter of punctilio, would not acknowledge us as an independentnation. This court said we were at war with
Filance in 1798, but congress did .not say so ; and
France always denied it. So the Netherlands were at
wai with Spain for 70 years, but Spain would never
acknowledge it.
If there was war between France and Havti, the
arreteseems clearly to be a war-measure, an exercise of
VOLIV.

K k

Rosa

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Ross

v.

belligerent rights. Its only object was the annoyance of
the enemy. There are many acts which, if considered
alone, might Appear equivocal whether intended as measures of peace or of war, and can'onl" be explained by
concomitant circumstances. Municipal rights may be
brought in aid of belligereht rights, and when hostilities are actually existing, an act which might be done in
time of peace may be considered as a measure of war.*t
• In answerto a question from the court, Mr. .Duponceau observed
as follows, viz.
The'questioh is, whether France can, by the mere force of the
law of nttions, seize and confiscate vessels of heutral nations trading
to Hayti.
If it is admitted that the situation of France with Hayti is a war,
it follo*s, that France is at war, and we are neutrals.
If neutrals, we cannot judge of any thing as dejare which !s the
subject of.the controversy between France and Hayti.
Hay.d contends that dejure she is an independent state.
France contends that dejure Hayti is her dependent colony.
Of this, ab neutrals, we are not permitted to judge.j We find
them at war together, and at issue on'this questlun of dependent or
independent; -we must take them both to be right.
We can'pot, thprefore, acknowledge the right of France to make
and enfiorce municipdl regulationi for Hayti ; it would be acknowled-ing the soVereignty of Francd over Hayti, and thus deciding
the question between-them, which we are not permitted to do a#
neutrals.
.,Nor can we permit our.stibjects to trade with Hayti, qontrary to
the"prohibition of France, for that would be adknowledging the in.
dependence of Hayti', and as such would be a violation of our neutbality,'by decidingin favour of one side the very question in contro
yersy between, them.
.1ut it will be said, that if we consider France merely as -a power
at war with Hayti, she has no'right to Prohibit our trading with them,
as one nittion at war cannot forbid neutrals to trade with its enemy,
except in contraband articles.

t,3Vat,

W18g.
Z"bi/d. §190. 2 Azuni, 63, &c. HB6ner.

FEBRUARY,. 18o8.

257

It is not necessary that a prize court should be a court
of admiralty.

Prizes are sometimes condemned in a tri-

bunal of commerce.

2 Azuni, 262.

3 Bos. and Pu.

This is true in the case of a war between independent states, but
this war is of a differentcharacter, and produces diffiecent effects.
It is a prinbiple of the law of nations, that in war both belligerents
and neutrals have a right, with respect to each other, to do allthat
they had a right to doin time of peae, and immediately before the
war, but no more.o
But in time of peace France prohibited other nations from trading
with Hayti; that is,- she prohibited them if she thought proper ; an
war she'must continue to have the same right for the above reason,
and because denying it to-her would be judgingt.he qugstion ip ontroversy betwebn her and Hayti, which we have no right to clo.
True, France claims it'as a municipal right ; it is the only object
of her going to war; but she claims it of the .Haytians, not of us, and
if'- she.dlid, we cannot concede it to her as such ; we cannot grant
her the right o~binding the inhabitants of Hayti, or preventing tbtc,
from trading with, us; that we have nothing to do with ; It is the
4-uestkin -betveen them which we -are not to decide ; but we must
grant to her the right of binding us, tnd preventing us from trading
with Ejyti, not as a municipal right, which right our neutralit pr.
vents us from acknowl~dging, but as a belligenent right whj% she
has to prevent us from interfering by our overt acts in £hdquestionof
&deJnce or indtpendence between her and'the people of.Hayti.
If she has the right to prevent,us from interfering in that manner,
she has incontestibly by the law 'f nations.the right of punishing
tiat interfeveoce by the seizure and condemnation of our*ships and
obds found -in contravefition.
France then -claim tft sorts ofxights, munippal andbelligerent;
but the former claim is only between her al$ Hayti. and that )we
have nothing todo with; the lattcris between her and all the world,
"ind.those wc are buund to notice.
From her claim of those two concurrent rights, she, as 3ritsin
dlid in our revolution-ary'war, clothes her prohibitions in the shape of
municipal Tegulations, therebypretending fo asseri her claim of jurisdiction over her revolted subjects ; that form she adopts for the
sake of liet, national dignity; but -we, who are not bound to support that dignit, recognize her rights only so far as they are sanetioned by the laws of a war of the nature of that in which she is engaged, and no further; and they do not bind us furthir tlanthe faws

*The prahibitions of England respecting the colonial trade of her
enemies are founded on this principle, and carried to it -degree of
aigow which it does not seem to warrant.

Rosa
v.

-

SUPREME -CoURT U. S.'
Rosa

526.

~

But this was a court of admiralty.

It was found-

ed upon the model of the council of prizes at Paris. It
is no part of the ordinaryjudic.tture ; it is a political institution, established by a special commission from the
government, to decide, in an executive capacity, on the
validity of maritime captures. 2 Azuni, 268. 2 .New
Code des Prises,1070. " Arrete of 18th 7une, 1802.
2. The condemnation of the vessel was valid,
although

lying in a neutral country.
The correctness of such condemnations is questioned
on the single dictunm of Sir W. Scdtt.. When in the
.FladOyen, 1 Rb, 119, 120. he said that there were only
two cases of ships carried, into foreign ports and condemned in England, he was not candid ; he knew there
Were mbre than two such cases. And in 4"Rob. 52. the
Henrich and Miaria, he admits that the practice is too inveterate to be altered, and shows that the practice has
been adopted or sanctioned by fo.urtebn out of eighteen
states in Europe. England adopted it as long ago fis
1695. (4 Rob: 40.) In I Wilson, 191. as early as 1745,

it wvas mentioned without exciting any astonishment;
and in 4 Rob. .50. Sir W. Scott himself admits. it
was the practice in the wars of '1739, 1745, 1756,
1776, and I793. France began it in 1705, and has continued it to this day. Sir W. Scott was. mistaken in anying that the editor of the VNw Code de& Prisesspealks of
it as-an innovations. 1 New Code des Prisel, 357. Russial
adopted it in 1787, or perhaps earlier, and Spain during
the last w4r, and probaibly.before. It appears by 4Rob.
of war, applied to the particular war dxlsting, exlpressly authorise,
but they bind us so far.
It may be said that as France claims the-right of sovereignty oVer
we should allow ler tlmirigh4,
Hayti, she cannot complain 'of-us if"
though we are not bound to do it as neutrals It is answered, that
she indeed claims that tight, but she cla.ms it of the sitbjccts of
Hayti, and not ofus ; those which site claims of us are those of a
belligerent; she knows that shecannot claim any other of a neutral
state, -ahich has nothing to do with her quarrel; atal she would
have a right to comolain of our adding insuiltto injury, if we were to
allow her a right which she does not claim or us, by ,.ay *ofreasonor
pretext fordenying her one which she actually, and W'o think justly,
lais.

FEBRUARY 1808.

259

50. that it was tolerated by -PortugalTuscany, Na~pls,
icilyt, the P4pe, Genoa, Sardinia, Venice and Denmark.
V~e do not find 'a contiary practice in the reniiaining
states of Europe' Holland, Sweden, Prusszaand'Alustria.
We do not know what their practice is, but none of them
have complained. It has therefore become the usage of
nations ; and congress, in the year 1781, by their resolye, declared the United States to be bound by the
usage - nations. The practice is also approved by
Galliani, in his treatise on the duties of nations and
princes towards each. other, p. 443. by Azuni, 2 Az.
326. and by Lampredi, on the commerce of neutrals in
time of war, p. 192. The quotation from Lampredi, in
Wheelvright v. Depeyster, 1 _7ohnson, 481. is incorrectit makes him speak a language different from his sentiments. .2 Az. 254, 255.
The ,inconveniences of the contrary practice would be
very great. If the captors are obliged to carry the prize
a great way out of her course for adjudication, -the risk
of the seas is gkeat, and'the loss of the voyage inevitable.
It will be a temptation to ihe captors to plmnder the vessel and destroy, her, and perhaps expose the prisoners to
great dangers, by sending them adrift in the boat, or
subjecting them to severe imprisonment.
The commissidners of England established at Lisbon
and Leghorn'had no power to adjudicate or condemn.
They could only examine the prisoners on oath, and in
certain cases restore the property captured.
In our partial war with France, we carried oiirprizes
into neutral ports ; and during the war with Tripoli,
our cruizerg were authorised by an act of congress to
carry their prizes into neutral ports.
The treaty with France Cannot be construed strictly.
It must be expounded by the law and usage of nations.
There iq no reason why the res ipsa,the corpus, should
be within the territory. It is not that which gives jurisdiction.

Rost
V

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Rosa

v.

The principle which confines jurisdiction of prizes to
the courts of the captor, is the right which the sovereign
has to inquire into the conduct of. his subjects, nd to
enforce the law of nations. 2 Rutherford, 566. Sir W.
Scott holds the same doctrine totidem verbis. 3 T.R. 330.
Smart v. WolF.
It is hut of late that a condemnation has been holden
.necessary to transfer the property.

3. But Spain was an ally in the war with St. Domingo,
although she might not be an ally as to the war with England. The treaty between Frahce and Spain, of August 19th, 1796, created an alliance offensive and defensive as to whatever concerned the mutual advaettage of
the two nations, and containeda guarantee of the islands.4'
*ZXTRACT rnoN TH

NZW ANN4UAL REOISTER,

Piaa 167. PUBLIO PAPris.

196,

Treaty of Alliance, offensive and defensive, between the .Frenl
Republicand the King of.Sain,- August 19, 1796. "
The Executive Directory of the French Republic, and his Catholie Majesty, the King of Spain, animated by the wish to strengthen
the bonds )f amity and good understanding happily re.estahlished
between France and Spain by the treaty of peace concluded at Baste,
on the 4th Thermidor, in the third year of the Republic, (22d
July, 1795,) have resolved to form an offbnsive and defensive treaty
of alliance, ft whatever concerns the advantageand common defence of
the two nations; and they have charged with this important nego.
tiation, anil have given their full powers to the undeftmntioned
persons, namely: The Executive Directory of the French Republic,
to Citizen Diminique Catherine Perignon, Gencral of Division of
the Republic, and its Ambassador to his Catholic Majesty, the King
of Span ; and his Catholic Majesty, the King of Spain; 'to his ex-'
cellencv, Doi Manu.I de Godoi, Prince of Peace, Duke of Alcdia,
&c. &c. &c. who, after the respective communication and exchang6
of their fl powers, have agreed on the following articles :

I. There shIll exist for ever an o 1'nsivc and defensive alliance between tle French Republic and his Catholic Mjesty, the King of
Spain.
It: The two contracting powers shall be'mutual guarantees, svithout any reserve or exception, in the most authentic and absolute way, of
.all the states, territories, islands, and other places which they possess, ayhl shall respectively possess And if one of the two powers
shall be in the sequel, under whatverpretext it may be, nenaced or attacked, the other promises, engages, and binds itself to help it with

FEBRUARY, 1808
(-.ewAnnuaRegsterfor 1796, p. 167.) When one part
ot the the hation separates from the other, and seeks to
maintain its independence by force of arms, a wvar subsis±4 defacto, and the casus firderis has arisen. The
its good offices, and to succour it on its requisition at shallbe stipulated
in thtfoltowing articles.

Il. Within'the space of three months, reckoning from the moment of the requisition, the power called.on shall hold in readiness,
and place in the disposal of the power calling, fifteen ships of the
line, three of which shall be three deckers, or of 80 guns, and
twelve from 70 to 74; six frigates of a proportionate force, and four
sloops or light vessels, all equipped, armed and victualled for six
months, and~stored for a year. These naval forces shall be assembled bj thei power called on, in the particular port ipinted out by
the power calling.
IV. In case the requiring power may have judged it proper for
the commencement of hostilities to confine to the one half the succour which was to have been given in execution of the preceding
article, it may, at any epoch of the campaign, call for the other half
of the aforesaid succour, which shall be furnished in the mode and
withid the space fixed, this space of time to be reckoned from the
new requisition.
. V, The power called on shall in the same way place at the dis.
posal of the requiring.power, :within the space of three months,
reckoning from the moment Qf the requisition; eighteen thousand
infantry and six thousand cavalry, with a proportionate train of artillery, ready to be employed in Europe, and for the defence of the
colonies which the con~tacing powers possess in the Gulfof Mexico.
VL The requiring power shall be allowed to send one or severa
'commissioners, for the purpose of assuring itself whether, copformably to the preceding articles, the power caUed on has put itself in
a state to commence, hostilities on the day fixed with the land and
sea forces.
VII. Thesepuccours shall be entirely placed at the disposal of the
requiring power, which may have'them in the ports and on the territory of the power called on, or employ them in expeditions it may
think fit to undertake, -ithout being obliged to give an account of the
motive* byvAhich it may have been determined.
VIII. The demand of the succours stipulated in the preceding articles, made' by one of the powers, shall suffice to prove the need it
has of them, without its being necessary to enter into any discussion
relative to the question, whether the war it proposes be.ofrensive or
defensive, or .itwut any explanation being required, which may tend
to elude the mosj speedy and exact accomplishment of what is stipu.
lated.
IX. 'he troops and ships demanded shall continue at the disposal
of the requiring power during the whole continuance of the war,

Rosr
V
HiviELY.

SUPREME COURT U2'S.
Rosz
V-.

guarantee of the islands was against all men, traitors as
well as enemies. The revolt of the negroes wag a matter Which concerned both nations# It was equtly the
interest of both that they should be suppressed.
without its incurring in any case any expense... The power calledvon
shall maintain thenii in all places where its'ally shall cause them to act,
asifit employed them directly for itself It is simply agreed on,
that, durink the whole of the time when the aforesaid troops or
ships shall be on tl~e territory or in the ports of the requiring power,
it shall furnish frem its magazines or arsenals whateVer maybo .necessary tQ them, in the same way and at the same price os it sup.
plies its own troops and ships.
X. The power called on sllali immediately replace the ships itfhrnishes, which ma ,be lost by accidents ofwaror qf the sea, Itshall
also repair the losses the troops it supplies Tmay suffer.
XL If the aforesaid succours are found to be, or should become insufficient, the two contractisg powers shall put on foot the greatest
forces they possibly can, as weliby sea as by land, ageinst the enemy
of the power attacked, whidb shall employ the aforesaid forcbs either
by combining them or by causinz therm to act separately, and tlbiD
conformably to a plan concerted between them. •
XII. The succours stipulated by the- preceding articles shall be
fnnished in all tM, wart the contracting powers may have to mainain, even in those in whiich the party called on may not be dircctly
interested, and may act merely as a simple auxiliary.
XIII. In the case in which the motives of hostilities being preju.
dicial to both parties, they may declare war with one common assent
against one or several powers, the limitations established in the preceding articles shall cease to take place, and the two contracting
powers shall be bound to bring into action against the common enemy the whole oftheir land and sea forces, and to concert their plans
so as to dirpct them towards the most convenieht points, either se.
the
parately or by unitifig them. They equally bind themselves, iW%
cases pointed qut in the present article, not to treat for peace unless
with one commdn consent, and in such a way as that each ishall obtain the satisfaction wbich is its due.
-XIV. In the case in which one of the powers shall act mrrelyus
an auxiliary, the powe'which alone shall find itself attarked may
treat of peace separately, but so as that no prejudice may result
from thence to the auxiliary power, and that it may even turn as
much as possible to its direct advantage. For this purpose advie
shall be given to the auxiliary power of the mode and time agrdcd on
for the opening and sequel of the negotiatidnd.
XV. Without any &-lav there shall be concluded a treaty of com.
merce on'the most equitable basis, and reciprocally advantageous to
the t~vo nations, which shall secure' to each of them with its ally a
marked preferefrce for the produrtions ofits soil or manufactures, or
at least advantages equal to those which the most favottred nations

FEBRUARY, 1808.

263

Thetrading with the revolted slaves was in itself a
violation of the law of .nations. It is immaterial wh6ther it bea violation of a municipal law, oi of the rights

of war.

A vessel may be lawfully seized and condemn-

enjoy in their respective states. . The two powers engage to make
instantly a common cause to repress and annihilate thb maxims
adopted by any country whatever, which may be subversive of their
present principles, and which may bring into danrer the safety of
the neutral flag, and the respect which is due to it, as 'well as to
raise and re-establish the colonial system of Spain on the footing on
which it has stibsisted, or ought to subsist, conformably to treaties.
XVI. The character and jurisdiction ofthe consuls shall beat the
same time recognized and regulated - y a particular convention.
The conventions anterior to the present treaty shall be provisionally
executed.
XVIL To avoid every dispute between the two powers, they shall
be bound to employ themselves immediately, and without delay, in
the expladation and developbment of the 7th article of the treaty of
Basle, concerning the frontiers, conformable to the instrtictions,
plans and memoirs which shall be communicated through the medium
of the plenipotentiaries who negotiate the presen, treaty.
XVIII. England being the only power against which Spain has
direct grievances, the present alliance shall not be executed unless
against
her during the present war, and Spain shall reiiialn neater,
with respect to the other powers armed against the republic.
XIX. The ratifications of the present treaty shall be e€changed
within a month from the date of its being signed,
Done at St. Ildephonso, 2d Fructidor, (AuguA 19,) the 4th yeat
of the French Republic, one and indivisible.
PERIGNON, and the
PRINCE OF PEACE.

(Signed)

The Executive Directory resolves on and signfs the present offen,
sive and defensive treaty of alliance with his Catholic Majesty, the
King of Spain, negotiated in the name of the French llepublic by Citi.
zen Dominique Catherine Perignon, General of Division, founded on
powers to that effect by a resolution of the Executive .Dirrctnry, dated 20th lMessidor, (September 6,) and charged with its instructions.
Done at the National Palade of the Executive Directory# the 4th
year of the French Republic, one and indivisible.
(Signed)

Conformable to the original,
REVEILLIERE LEPAUX, President.
By the Executive Directory,
LAGARDE, Serretaire Gentral.

Vol. IV.

LI

Ross
He"

.

SUPREME CO RT U. S.
RoSz
V.
H12MELY.

ed as prize-for a violation of the law of nations whether

there be war or not. A French prize court does not
come into existence nor cease with a war, bat, like our
district courts, always exists as a prize court.
The arretes of Le Clerc, Ferrand, &c. were mere
proclamations; not laws, but declarationsof what the law
was before. The vessel was as liable to seizure after
she had got out of the territorial jurisdiction, as if she
had violated a blockade.
Whether it be a vase of prize of war or-of municipal
cognizance, the court bad a right to order a sale before
condemnation, and a pi rchaser under such sale gained a
good title agaiiist all the world. The'sale ix as made under the order of the court by its authorised agent.
The ca munications of the French ministers PAhon
and Turreau to our government, consider this trade as
a violation of the law. of nations, and our government
has considered it in, the same light. If it was otily a
violation of the municipal lw of France, this country
must have been prostrated in dusi and a.shes, when -congress passed a law t6"carry into effect the municipal law
of France. But the truth is, that if this government
had not put a stop to, the trade, it would have sanctioned a violation of the law .of nations.
In the Bhtimore case, the court ought to have left
the jury to decide, under all the circumstances of the
case, whether the brigands had such a, title to the property as to make a valid sale to the plaintiffs. The purchase was made only a few months after the slaves had
driven out or murdere1 all the ,shites, and had confiscated their prop rty. The probability is, that this very
property was the property of the whites, obtained by
plunder and robbery. If so, the robbers gained no
title. It'was, .therefore, a matter of fact for the jury
to decide.
But the principal question, whether a French court
can condemn a prize lying in a neutral port, is to be
determined, not by adjudged cases in one nation only,
but by the law and practice of the civilized maritime

ZFEBRUARY, 180.
-nations of Europe. It has been -shown to be the practice of most, if not of all the maritime nations of Eu-rope for a century ; and if we have no practice on the
subject, and are now called.upon to establish one, it
-will-certainly be our interest to conform to that of kurope.
This is a civil war of the most odious kind-slaves
against their masters. It is said, indeed, that they
%werefree. But the same power .%vhich had declared
them free, had since ceclared them to be slaves. But
whether they are to be considered as free rebels, or as
fevoked slaves, we had no right to trade with them.
There are duties which one state owes to another in
the case of rebellion. If a nation joins or assists the
rebels, it becomes an enemy. Upon this point, authorities are not necessary. Reason alone is sufficient.
The United States have never acknowledged the independence of Hayti ; and the citizens of the United
States have no right to consider it au an independbnt
nation.
A law of a nation regulating the trade of foreigners
in the territory of that nation, is not a mtnicipal aw,
but a-modification of the law of nations. By thelaw of
nations, every state has a right to regulate the trade of
foreigners with that state, and eyery such rqgulation is
only a modifictio'n of that law.
To succour rebels is as much a violation of the law of
nations, as to -succour a blockaded ort, or a besieged
city.
A V1rize may be condemned while lying in a neutral
port, or at the bottom of the sea, or even if the thing be
consumed.
The condemnation does not give property ; it only
establishes the fact that the captor or his sovereign had
a lawful title by the capture. 1 Yilson, 211. 2 Azwi)
262. 12 Mod 134. Rex v. Broom. Carthew, 39,.
s. C.

Rom
HIXLLY.

26
RosE

v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Tfe own'er of goods captured can only iesort to the
courts of the captor- for redress. Dou., 614. Le Caux
v. 1"den. No other nation can interfere. H has no
right to apply to the courts of his own country, even if
his goods are carried there. Neutrals" cannot interfere; if they do. they make themselves parties in the
war.
The treaty of alliance bound Spain to assist France
against the revolted slaves. Vattel (P. 234. b. Z s. 197.)
says, :' An'ally ought doubtless to be defended against
every invasion, against every.foreign violence, andeven
against his rebellious subjecis"' A Sp,'mish port was
therefore to be considered as a port of an ally..
A neutral, whose pro.erty has been seized for violation of the law .of nations, has no right to rescue it.
He may escape with it if he can; but there is noju8
postliminii in favour of neutrals,*
The court at Santo Domingo was the sole judge of
its own jurisdiction. Its decision upon that point is conclusive'upon this court. .
The.questions ofjus Postlfminii, and infra presidia,
and of 24 hours possession, can only arise in a case
*MAUSUAt., Ch. J. Do you contend' that; after Its escape, the
captor may proceed to libel and Zondemn the property in the courts
of the captor I

Martin. Unquestionably. The property vests by the capture.
JoHNsrox, J: Is not a neutral vessel, captured as prize for a
breach of the law of nations, quoad hoe an enemy, and ag much en.
titled to rescue herself as an open enemy ?
Martin. No. The offended nation would have aright to demand
that she be given up by her government; and if' it refuses, It
sanctions the inimical act of its subject, and makes-itself a party in
the war. So if the seizure be for violation of a municipal law, the
government of France has a vested right'; but not if thre bet
seizure. If an American neutral vessel, not having a commission
thcrefor, should assist in rescuing another neutral American vessel
from a belligerent who had seized her. as prize for violation of the
law of nations, she would be guilty of piracy.

FEBRUARY, 180&

267

between the recaptor and the first owner, or between
the latter amnda vendee of the captor. As between the
captor and the captured, the title passes by the seizure.
A condemnation is only evidence of the lawfulness of
the seizure. But it is not the only evidence. This
doctrine is acknowledged, by all the nations of Europe,
except England. But England cannot make the law of
nations. Grotius, p. 580, 581. b. 3. c. 6. s. 2. and 3.
tit. .4. Vattel, p. 570. b. 3. s. 195, 196. 212. p. 585.
Burlemaqui, (last part,) p. 222. s. 13. and 14. Lee on
Captures, 68, 69, 70. 73. 76. 101, 102.
7us postlimini! does not arise with regard to moveable goods,
except ships ; but a belligerent acquires the right to
immoveable things, immediately upon capture. 1 imerzgon, 4to ed. (French,) p. 513. 2 Azuni, 236. 238.
-LeeOn
Captures,p, 64. c. 5. 1 Rob. 114. The reason
of a distinction being taken between ships and other
inoveables, is, that the identity and title of a ship may
be as certainly traced as that of land ; and there is the
same reason for the rule caveat emptor.
If the title to all "foreign merchandize is to be thus
questioned, ii will bl necessary to trace it up in all instances, to the original manufacturer, or to the cultivator of tht soil. No purchaser will be safe. Such are
not the principles of the common law.
A sale under aferifaciasis good, although the judgment be afterwards reversed. 3 .8t Com. 448, 449. So
in Maryland, although the statute forbids an administrator to sell the slaves of his intestate, if there be
sufficient other personal estate to pay the debtg, yet if in
violation of that law he sells the slaves, the title of the
Durchaser is good.
Even a municipal seizure vests the title in the governnient. 5 Mod. 193. Roberts v. Withered. Comb.
361. 12 01od. 92. 5 T. R. 112. 117. Wilkins v. Despard.
But the purchaser, at all events, is entitled to salvage.
While the property was in the hands of the captor, it
was totally lost to the owner, who ought at all events to
repay to the purchaser his purchase money, with in-

Ros3&
V.
HZmEV.

SUPREME tOURT VY. S.
Rosi

V.

H

eregt, and.the expense of transportation to this coin-

ZL.try.

March 2.
MAtSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a claim for a cargo of coffee, &c. which, after being shipped from a port in Santo Domingo, in possession of the brigands, was c6iptured by a French privateer, and carried into Barracoa, a small port in the
island of Cuba, where it was sold by the captor. The
cargo, having been brought by the purchaser into the
state of South Carolina, was libelled in the court, of
admiralty, by the original American owner. The pur-.
chaser defends his iitle by a dentence of condemnation
pronounced by a tribunal sitting in Santo Domingo, after
the property had been libelled in the court of this country; and by an order of sale made by a person styling
himself delegate of the French government of Santo
Domingo at St. 7ago de Cuba.
The-great question to be decided is,

.Was this. sentence pronouncedby a court of competenejurisdiction?
At the threshold of this interesting inquiry, a difficulty presents .itself, which is of no intonsiderable magnitude. It is this.

Can this court examine the jurisdiction.of a foreikn
tribunal?
The court pronouncing the sentedce, of necessity decided in fivour of-its jurisdiction; and if the decision
was erroneous, that error, it is said, ought to be corrected by the superior tribunals of its own country, not
by those of a foreign country.
This proposition certainly cannot be admitted in its
fuU extent. A sentence professing on its face to be ihe"
sentence of a judicial tribunal, if rendered by a ielf-

FEBRUARY, 1808.
constituted body, or by a body not. empowered by its
government to take cognizance of' the subject it had
decided, could have nq legal effect whatever.
The pr.wer of the court then is, of necessity, examiiab!M to a certain extent by that tribunal which is
compelled to decide whether its sentence has changed
the right of property. The power, under which it acts,
must be looked into; and its authority to decide questions, which it piofesses to decide, must be considered.
But although the general power by which a court
takes jurisdiction of causes must be inspected, in order
to determine whether it may rightfully do what it professes to do, it is still a question of serious difficulty,
whether the situation of the particular thing on -%hich
the sentence has passed, may be inquired into, for the
purpose of deciding whether that thing was in a state
which subjected it to the jurisdiction of the court passing the sentence. For example; in every case of a
foreig sentence condemning a vessel as prize of war,
the authority of the tribunal to act as a lrize court must
be examipable. Is the question, whether the vessel
condfemned was in a sitiation to subject her to thejurisdiction of that court, also examinable? This question, in the opinion'of the court, must be answered in
the affirmative.
Upon principle, it would seem that the operation of
every judgment must depend on the power of the court
to render that judgment ; or in other words, on its jurisdiction over the subject-matter which it has determined. In some cases, that jurisdiction unquestionably
depends as well on the state of the thing, as on the
constitution of the court. If by any means whatever a
prize court should be induced to cofidemn, as prize of
war, a vessel which was never captured, it could not be
contended that this condemnation operated a change of
property. Upon principle, then, it would seem that,
to a certain extent, the capacity of the court to act upon
the thing condemned, arising from its being within, or
without their jurisdiction, as well as the constitution of
the court, may be considered by that tribinal which is
to decide on the effect of the sentence.

Ro=
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RosE

Y_
•

Passing from principle 0 authority, we fnd, that in
the courts of England, whose decisions are particularly
mentioned, because we are best acquainted with them,

and.because, as is believed, they give to foreign sentences as full effect as are given to them in any part of
the civilized World, the.position.that the sentence of a

foreign court is conclusive with resp1t to what it pro-

fesses to decide, is uniformly qualified with the limitation that it has, in the given case, jurisdicion of the
subject-matter.
This general dictum is explained by particular cases.
The case of the PladOyen, 1 Bob. 114. was .a vessel
oondemned by a beligercnt court sittipg in a neutral
territory ;. consequently, the objection to that sentence
turned entirely on the defect in the constitution of the
court.
.The Christopher, 2 Rob. 17s. was condemned while
lying in the port of an ally. The jurisdiction of the
court passing the sentence was affirmed, but no doubt
seems to have been entertained, at the bar, or by the
judge himself, of his right to decide the question, whether a court of admiralty sitting in the country of the
captor could take jurisdiction of a-prize lying in the poxt
of an -ally. The decisiort of the tribunal at Bayonne in
favour of its 1own jurisdiction, was not corsidered as
conclusive on the court of admiralty in England, but
that question was. considired as being perfectly open,
and as depending on the law of nations.
The case of The Iierlighett, s Rob. 82. is of the
same description with that of The Christopher, and establishes the game principle.
In the case of The Henrich.and'Maria,4 Rob. 35.
Sir W.L Scott determined that a condemnation, by the
court of the captor,. of a vessel lying in a neutral port,
was conformable to the practice of nations, and therefore valid ; but in that case the right to inquire whether
the situation of the thing, the locus in fun,. dicl not take
it out of the jurisdiction of the court, was considered
as unquestionable.

-1E.BRUARY, 1SM.

271

The c1se of The Comet, r mob. 255. stacid on the
nme principles,
The Helena, 4 Rob, 3. was a British vessel captured
by an Algerine corsair owned by the Dey, and transferred to a Spanish purchaser by a public act in solemn
manner before the Spanish consul The transfer ,was
guarantied by the Dey himself. The vessel was again
transferred to a British purcbaser under the public sane:
tion of the judge of the vice-admiralty court of Minprca after that place had surrendered to the British
arms, On a claim in the tourt of admiralty by the
original British owner, Sir W. Scptt afirmed the tide
f.the purchaer, but, e5pressed no doubt of the right
Df the court to investigate'the subject.
The manner in which this subject is understood in
the courts of England, may then be considered' as establishedon uncontrovertible authority. Although no
case has been found in which the validity of a foreign
sentence has been denied, because the thing was not
within the ports of the captor, yet it is apparent that
the couts of that country hold themselves warranted
in examining the jurisdiction of a foreign court, by
which a sentence of condemnation has passed) not only.
in relation to the constitutional powers of the court, but
also in-relation to the situation of the thing on which
those powers are exercised ; at least so far as the right
of the foreign court to take jurisdiction of the thing is
regulatedlby the law of nations and by treaties, There
is no feason to suppose that the tribunals of any other
country whateier deny themselves thi same power. It
is, therefore, at present, considered as the uniform
practice of civilizea nations, and is adopted by this
court as the true principle which ought to govern in
this case.
In pursuing the inquiry, then, whether the tribunal
erected in St. Domingo was acting on a case of which
it had jurisdiction when The Sarah was condemned,
this court will examinethe constitutional powers of thattribunali thecharacter in which it acted, and1he situation of the subject on which it acted.
Val. 11V.

DT M

Rosn

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RoaZ

." v.
RTUFL '.

Admitting that the ordinary tribunal erected in -T.
Domingo was capable of acting as a prize court, and
also of taking cognizance of offences against regulations purely municipal, it is material to inquite in which
character it pronounced the sentence of condemnation in
the case now under consideration.
In making this inquiry, the relative situition of St.
Domingo and France must necessarily be considered.
The colony of St. Domingo originally belonging to
France, had broken the bond which connected her with
the parent state, had declared herself independent, and
was endeavouring to support that independence by
arms. France still asserted her claim df sovereignty,
and had employed a military force in *supportvof that
claim. A'war defacto then tinquedtionably existed between France and St. Dmingo. It has' been argued
that the colony, having declared itself a sovereign state,
and having thus far maintained its sovereignty by firms,
must be considered and treated by other nations as
sovereign in fact, and as being entitled to maintain the
same intercourse with the world that is maintained by
other belligerent nations. In support of this argument,
the doctrines of Vattel have been particularly'referred
to. But the language of that writer is obviously addressed to sovereigns, not to courts. It is for governments' to decide whether they will consider St. Domingo as an independent nation, and until such decision.
shall be made,,or France -shall relinquish her claim,
courts of justice must consider the ancient slate .of
things as remaining unaltered, and the sovereiga power
of France over that colony as still subsisting.
It is not intended to say that belligerent rights may
not be superadded to those of sovereignty. But admit-.
ting a sovereign who is endeavouring to reduce his revdlted subjects to obedience, to possess both sovereign
and billigerent rights, and to be capable of acting in
either chtAracter, the manner in whiich he acts must
determine the character of the act. If as- a legislator
he'publishes a law "ordainingi punishments for' certain
offences, lvhich law is to be applied by couits, the nature of the law, and of the proceedings under it, will

FEBRUARY,

SO.

273

decide whether itis an exercise of belligerent rights, or
exclusively of his sovereign power; and whlethcr the
court, in applying this law to particular cases, acts as a
prize court, or as a* court enforcing municipal regulations.
Let the acts of the French government which relate
to this subject be inspected.
The notification given by Mr. Pichon, the French
charge d'afairesto the American government, which
was pu6lished in March; 1802, interdicts all manner of
intercourse with the ports of St. Domingo, -in possession of the revolted negroes, and declares that "cruisers
will -arrest all foreign vessrls attempting to enter any
other port, and to comjunicate with any of the revolted negroes, to carry either ammunition or provisions to
them. Such vessels," he adds, " shall be confiscated,
and the commanders severely punished, as violating
the rights of the French Republic, and the law of nations."

It might be questioned, under this notice, whether
vessels sailing on the high eas, having traded with one
of the brigand ports, would be considered aA liable to
seizure and to confiscation, after passing the territorial
jurisdiction of the government of St. Domingo. A
free trade with that colony had been allowed, and the
revocation of that license is made known to the government of the United States. To its revocation the ordinary rights of sovereignty alone were sufficient. The
notification, however, refers to the order bf the commander in chief of the French Republic. in St. Domingo ; *andthat order would of course be examined as
exhibiting-more perfectly the extent and the nature of
the rights which the French Republic purposed to exercise.
The part-cular order which preceded this notification
is in thest vords: "Every vessel, French or foreign,
which shat be found by the vessels of the Republic
riding at anchor in the ports of the island not desigtiated
by these presents, or within the bays, creeks, and land.
ing places on the coast, or uifider sail at a less distance

flo

HzLr.

274

Rosm
HV.

SUPREME COURT.U. S.

than two leagues from thd coast, and communicating
wi~h the land, shall be forfeited,
The nextdecree is dated the 22d of June, 1802, and
the extract which is supposed to regulate this pirtitcuar
subject, is in these words : " Every vessel, IFieach or
foreign, which shall be found by the vessels of the Republic anchored in one of the ports of the island, riot
designated by the present decree, or in the bays, coves,
or landings of the coast, or under sail at aless ditanea
than two leagues from the coast, and communicating
with the land, shall be arrested and confiscated."
Nothing can be more obvious than that these are
strictly territorial regulations, proceeding from the sovereign powrer of St. Domingo, and intended to enforce sovereign rights. Seizure for a breach ,of this
'aw iS to be made only within those limits over, which
the sovereign claimed a right to legislate, in virtue of
that exclusive'dominion which every nation popsessed
within .its own territory, and within such a distance
from the land as may be considered as a part of 'its territory.. Thispoweris the same in peace and in war, and
is exercised according to the discretion of the sovereign. The prohibition and the penalty are the same on
French and foreign vessels,
This subject was again taken up in October, 1802,
in an-arrete, which in part regulates the- coasting-trade
of 'the island. rhe 4th, 5th and 6th articles of this
decree 'respect foreign as well as French vessels, and
subject them to confiscation in the cilses whichare there
enumerated.
0
These are all of the same description with those stated
in the arrefe of the.22d of June; and no seizure is au.
thoried but of vessels found within two leagues of the
coast.
'The la-t decree is that which was issued by General

.Ferian.donthe 1st qf March, 1804. i This deserves the
more attention, because it is that on which the courts
profess to found their sentence of ,condemnatibi, in the
particular case under consideration, and because General

FEBRUARY, 1808.

Ferrand uses expressions which clearly indicate the
point of view in which all these arretes were contemplated by the government of the island.
The title of this arrete is, " An arrete relative to
vessels taken in contravention of the dispositions of the
laivs and regulations concerning French and foreign
commerce in the colony."
In stating the motives for this ordinance, it is said,
"That some French agents in the neighbofiring and. allied islands had mistaken the application of the laws and
regulations concerning vessels taken in contravention,
upon the coasts of St. Domingo occupied by the rebels, and had confounded those prizes with those which
were made upon the enemy of the state." " Desiring
to put an end t all the abuses which might result from
this mistake, and Whicl would be as injurious to the
territorial sovereignty as to the rights of neutrality,"
the commander in chief, after some further recitals,
which are not deemed material, ordains the law under
which he tribunals have proceeded.
-

The distinction, between seizures made in right of
war, and those which are made for infractions of the
commercial regulations established by the sovereign
power of the state, is here taken in terms.; and that
legislation, which was directed against vessels contravening the laws and regulations ioncerning French and
foreign commerce in the colony,-is clearly of the latter
description.
The first article of this ordonnanceis recited in the
sentence, as that on which the condemnation is founded.
It is in these words :
" The pdrt of Santo Domingo is the only one in the
colony of St. Domingo that is open to the French and
foreign commerce ; in consequence, all vessels anchored
in the bays, harbours, and landing places, on the coast
occupied by the rebels, those cleared for the ports in
their possession comning out with or without a cargo,
and, generally, all vessels sailing in the territorial extent of the islard, (except that from Cape Raphael to

Rost
HxUVy.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Rose

IM•.

M

Ocoa bay,) found at a distance less than two leagues
from tl'e.coast, shall be detained by the state vesbels
and privateers
having our
letters omarque,
ald riater
hvig
urletesof
mruwoshalwho
conduct them, if possible, into the pori of Sadto Domningo, that the confiscation of the said vessels and cargoes ft"ay be pronounced."

As this article authorises a seizure of those vesseis
only which are "sailing within the territorial extent of
the island,, found within less than two leagues of the
coast," it is deemed by; the court to be suficiently evident that the seizure and confiscation are made in consequence of a violation of municipal regulation, .and
not in tight of war. It is true that the revolt of the
colony is the motive for this exercise of sovereign power.
Still it is an exercise of sbvereign power, restrictitig itself within those limits which are the rrovince of municipal law, not the exercise of a belligerent right.
The tribunal professing to carry this law into execution, though capable of sitting either as a prize or an instance court, must be considered in this case as acting in
the character of an instance court, since it is in that
character that it punishes violations of municipal law.
The Sarah was captured more than to leagues from
the coast of St. Domingo, w~s never carried within the
jurisdiction of the tribunal of that colony, was sold at
Barracoa. in the island of Cuba, and afterwards condemned as prize under the arrete of GeneralFerrand,
which has been stated.
If the court of St. Domingo had jurisdiction of the
case, its sentence is conclusive. If it had no jurisdiction, the prpceedings are coram nonjudice, and must be
disregarded.
Of its own jurisdiction, so far as 'depends on municipal rtiles, the court of a foreign nation must judge,
and its decision must be respected. But if it exercises
a jurisdiction which, according to the law of nations,
its sovereign could not confer, however available its
sentences may be within the dominions of the prince
from whom the authority is derived) they are not-re-

FEBRUARY 18o8.

277

garded by foreign courts. This distinction is taken
upon this principle, that the laiiw of nations is the law
of all tribunals, in the society of nations, and is supposed to be equally understood by all.
Thus the sentence of a court sitting in a neutral territory, and instituted by a belligerent; has been declared
not to change the property it professed to condemn ;
and thus the question whether a prize. court sitting in
the country of the captor. could condemn -property lying
-in a neutral port, has been fully examined, and although
the jurisdiction of the court in such case was'admitted,
yet no doubt appears to have been entertained of the
propriety of examining the question, and decidiig it
according to the practice of nations.
Since courts, who are required to decide whether the
condemnation of a vessel and cargo by a foreign tribu.
nal has effected a change of property, may inquire whether the sentence was pronounced by a court which,
according to the principles of national.law, could have
jurisdiction over the 'subject; this court must inquire
whether, in conformity u ith that law, the tribunal sitting at St. Domingo to punish violations of th'e municipal laws enacted by its sovereign, could take jurisdiction of a vessel seized on the high seas, for infracting those laws, and carried into a foreign port.
In prosecuting this inquiry the first question which
presents itself to the mind is, what act gives an inchoate
jurisdiction to a court?
It cannot be.the offence itself.. It is repugnant to
every idea of a proceeding in rem, to act against a thing
which is not in the power'of the sovereign under whose
authority the court proceeds ; and no niation will admit'
that its. property should be absolutely changedi while
reniaining in its own possession, by a sentence which'is
entirely ex parte. Those on board a vessel are supposed
to represent all who are interested in it, and if .placed
in a situation which requires them to take notice of any
proceedings against a vessel and cargo, and enables
them to assert-the rights of the interested, the cause is
considered as being properly heard, and all concerned

Rose
V.

'SUPREME COURT U. S.

HOS'

HV.

•

"

are parties to it. But the owners ofvessels navigating
the high seas or lying in port, cannot take notice of any
pioceedings which may be instituted against those ven*
sels in foreign countries ; and consequently, spch pro-

ceedings would be entirely e 6 parte, and a sentence

founded bn"them never would- be, and never ought to
be, regarded.
The offence then alleged to have been committed by
Thi Sprah, could not be cognizable by the court of St.
Domingo, until some other act was performed which
should. make the owners of the vessel and cargo partier'
to the proceedings instituted against them, and should
place them within the legit)mate power of the sovereign,
for the infraction of whose laws they were to be confiscated. There must then be a seizure,. in order to
vest the possession of the thing in the offended sovereign, and. enable his courts to proceed against it. This
seizure, if made either by a civil officer, or a cruiser
acting under the authority of the sovereign, vests the
possession in him,, and enables him to ifiquire, by his
tribunals constituted for the purpose, into the allegations
made against, and in favour of the offending vessel,
Those interested in the property which has been seized
are considered as parties to this inquiry, and all nations
admit that the sentence, whether correct or-otherwise,
is conclusive.
Will a seizure de fact.o, made without the territorial
dominion of the 'sovereign under cover of whose au,
thority it is made, give a court jurisdiction of a thin&
never brought within the dominions of that sove.
reign ?
This is a.question upon which* considerable difliculty
has been felt, and on which some contrariety of opinion
exists. It has been doubted whether proceedings, denominated judicial, are, in such a case, merely irregular, or are to be -considered as absolutel; void, being
coram non judiec. If merely irregular,- ihe courts of
the country pronouncing the sentence were the exclusive jtidges of that irregularity,' and their decision binds
the world; if coram nonjudice, the sentence is as if not
pronounced.

FEBRUARY, 1808.
It is conceled that the legislation of- every country is
territorial ; that beyond its own territory, it can only

affect its own subjects or citizens. It is not easy to
enconceive a power to execute a municioal law, or to
force obedience to that law without the circle in which
that law operates. A power to seize for the infraction
of a law is derived from the sovereignl, and must be
exercised, it would seem, within those limits which
circumscribe the sovereign power. The rights of war
may be exerdised on the high seas, because war is carried on upon the high seas; but the pacific rights of
sovereignt'Tmust be exercised within the territory of
the sovereign.
If these propositions be true, a seizure of a person
not a subject, or of a vessel not belonging to a subject,
made on the high seas, for the breach of a -municipal
regulation, is an act which the sovereign cannot authorise. The person, whb makes this seizure, then,
makes it on a pretext which, if-true, will notjustify the
act, and is a marine trespasser. To a majority of the
court it seems to follow, that such a seizure is cotally
invalid ; that the possession, acquired by this unlawful
act, is his own possession, not that of the sovereign ;
and that suchi possession confers no jurisdiction on the
oourt of the country to which the captorbelongs.
This having been the fact in the case of The Sarah,
and neither thevessel, nor the captain; supercargo, nor
crew, having ever been brought within thejurisdiction
of the ccurt, or within the dominion of the sovereign
whose laws were infracted, the jurisdiction of the court
over the subject of its sentence never attached, ;he
proceedings were entirely ex parte, and the sentence is
not to be regarded.
The case of TJie Helena, already cited, may at first
view be thought a casi which would give validity to any
seizure wherever made, and would refer the legality of
that seizure solely to.the sovereign of the captor. But
on a deliberate cobisiderktion of that case, the majority
of the court is of opiniott that this inference is not warranted by it. Several circumstances concurred in proN n
Vol. IV.

Rosm
T.

280
Roske
M.Y

SUPREME COURT U. 9.

ducing the decision .which was made, andthose circumstances vary that case materially from this. The captured vessel was ca ried into port, and while in the
Power of the sovereign was transferred by his particular
authority in solemn form.
In such a case, Sir W.*Scott conceived that a sentence
of confiscition conformably with the laws of Algiers,
was to be presumed. But his decision did not turn
singly on .this point. The vessel, after passing in this
formal manner to a Spanish purchaser, had, with equal
solemnity, been again transferred 'to a British purchaser ;and the judge considered this second purchaser,
with how much 'reason nay perhaps be doubted, as in
a better situation than the original purch.1ser. This
case is badly reported, the points made by counsel on
one side are totally omitted, and the opinion of the judge
is not given with that clearness which usually character.
izes the opinions of Sir William Scott, But the seizure was preskimed to be made by way of reprisals for
some breach of the treaty between the two pcwers, so
that the possession of the captor was considered as legitimately-the possession of his sovereign, and from the
subsequent conduct-of the Dey himself, a condemnation
according to the usages of Algiers was presumed.
But in presuming a condemnation, this case does not,
it is tlouglit, dispense with the necessity of one ; nor
is it supp~oseld, in .presilming a legitimRte cause of seizure, to declare that a seizure made wihout authority,
by a commissioned cruiser, would vest the possession
in thesovereign of the captor, and give jurisdiction to
his courts.
If this case is to be considered as if no sentence of
cofidemniation was ever pronounced, the property is not
changed, and this court, having no right to enforce the
penal laws of a foreign country, cannot inquire into any
infraction of those laws. The property in this particu,
jar case was.purchased under circumstances which exclude any doubt respecting its identity, and respecting
the full knowledge of the purchaser of the nature of the
title he acquired.

FEBRUARY, .1808,

281

The scntence of condemnation being considered as
null and invalid, the property is unchanged, and therefore ought to be recovered by the libellants in the court
below . But those lib~elants ought to account with the
defendants for the freight, insurance, and duties on importation, and for such other expenses as would have
been properly chargeable on themselves as impbrters;
and each party is to bear. his own costs.
The sentence of the circuit court is to be reversed;
and also the sentence of the district oourt, so far as it
contravenes this opinion, and the cause is to be remanded to the circuit court for the district of South
Carolina, for a final decision thereon.
LiVnGSTOl, J. Without -expressing an opinion on"
the invalidity of a ieizure on the high seas under a
municipal regulation, if the property be immediately
carried into a port of the country to which the capturing
vessel belongs, and there regularly proceeded against,
I concur in the judgment just delivered, because The
Sarah aid her cargo were condemned by a French tribunal sitting at St. Domingo, without having been carried intQ that, or any other French port, and while
lying in the port of Charleston, South Carolina, whither
they-had been carried, by and With the consent of the
captor.
CUSHING and CHASE, Justices, concurred in opinion
with Judge Livingston.

Jonso, J. This cause comes up on appeal from the
circuit court of South CArolina, acting in the capacity
of an instance court of admiralty. The doctrines which
regulated the decision of the circuit court, are not overruled by .a majority of the bench ; but the decree of thao
court is rescinded, bebause to three of the fiye judges
who concur in sustaining the appeal, it appears that
the property could not be condemned in the court of St.
Domingo, -while lying in a neutral port: and to the
other two, thaethe capture on the high seas, for a breach
of mtinicipal regulation, was contrary to the law of inaSti, ns, and therefore yested no jurisdiction in the court
of St. Domingo. On the former doctrine it is not

Rose
V.

SUPREME COURT .U. S.
ltosz

necessary to make any observations, because in the case
of the Sea-flower, argued together with this as-one cause,
and decided on the same day, that doctrine is expressly
overruled" But on the latter point I think it proper,
briefly to state the reasons upon which I found fiy disapprobation, both of the doctrine and of its application

to this case.
It would have been some relief to us in determining
this question, had it been made a point by counsel, either
in their argumen' in this court, or in the court below ;
but it-appears to have been wholly unnoticed by them.
Most of the difficulties ,wnich have occurred in the
investigation of this case, appear to have resulted from
an indistinct.view of the nature,.origin, and object ot
prize courts. ' Conducted by the same forms, arid very
generafty blended in the same persons, it is nqt easy 'to
trace upon the mind, the discriminating line between the
intance and prize courts ; yet the object of the institution of the latter court, whtn considered, strongly marks
-the distinguishing point between them. In its ordinary
jurisdiction, the admiralty takes cognizance of mere
questions of mneum and tuum arising between individuals ; its extraordinary or prize jurisdiction is vested in
it for the'purpose of revising the 'acts of the sovereign
himself.perrormed through *the,agency of his officers or
subjects. A seizure on the high seas by an unauthorised individual, is a mere trespass, and produces no
change of right, but.such a seizure made by sovereign
authority, vests the thing seized in the sovereign ; for

the fwict of possession must have all the'beneficial effects
of the right of possession, as the justice or propriety of
it cannot he inquired into by the courts of other nations.
But as this prificiple might leave the unoffending ndi'viddal a prey to the rapacity of cruisers, or a victim' to
the errors of those who even mean 'well, 'nd as e ery
ciilized nation pretends to the character of justice and,
moderation, and to have an 'interest in preserving the:
peaceoof the. world, they constitute courts -.. ith powers
toinquire into'the correctness of captures 'made under
eolour of their own *iuthority,. rind to give redress to
those Who have'been unmeritedly attacked or injured.
These are denom inat.d' prize courts, and the primary

FEBRUARY, ISO.

2M3

object of their institution, is to inquire whether a taking
asprize, issanctioned h¢ the authorityoftheir sovereign,
or the unauthorised.act of an individuAl. From this it
would seem to follow, that the decision of such a court,
is-the only leg'al organ of communication, through which
the sanction of a sovereign can be ascertained, and that
no othercourt is at liberty to deny the existence of sovereign authority, for a seizure which r prize court has
declared to be the act of its sovereign.
The propriety of such an act may correctly become
the subject of executive or diplomatia discussion; but
the equality of nations forbids that the conduct of.one
sovereign, or the correctness of. the principles upon
whiich he acts, should be submitted to the jurisdiction of.
the courts-of another. From-these consideratious I infer, that the capture and continued possession of The
Sarah and her cargo, confirmed by the approbatory sentence of a court of the capturing power, vested a title
in the claimant, which this. court cann6't, consistently
with the law of nations, interpose its authority to defeat.
Having briefly stated the grounds upon which I originally formed, and now adhere to an opinion in favour
of the claimants, I will consider the objections stated to
the jurisdiction of the court, onthe ground that the scizure was contrary to the law of nations.

the court of St.. Domingo nad juit is admitted, if.
risdiction of the subject matter, that the -condemnation
completed the divestiture of property. But it is contended-that the subject, in this case, was not within their

jurisdiction, because itrwas seized for a cause not sanctioned by the law of nations.

I am unfortanate enough

tao hink that neither the premises nor the conclusion of
this argument, are maintainable. The conclusion is sub-

ject-to this.very. obvious objection; that itdefeats the
vcry end for which suchcourts were £reated.
To contend that a violation of the law of nations will
-take away the jurisdiction of a court, -which sits And
judges -according to. the law of 'nations, appears to approach very near to a solecism.' Th- occurrence ubich
gives itjurisdiction, takes it away.
-

Rosr
V.

284"

lost

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

If the object and end of constituting a prize court be

to give redress against unlawful capture, and, as the
books say, in such case to restore vei.f levatis, how can
it. make reparation to the injured.indivi'dual if it loses its
jurisdiction; because there has been an injury done
to him, the court can give him no redress. The argument admits, that a capture consistent with the law of
natiolls, would give jurisdiction, buehow is the legality
or illegality of a captu;e to be determined, unless a
court can take jurisdiction of the case; The legality of
the capture is the very point to which a court is to direct its inquiries, and yet that inquiry is arrested in its,
inception. The cause or circumstances of a capture can
never be known to a court, without exercising jurisdiction on the subject. To maintain therefore, that prize
courts can only exercise jurisdiction over captures, made
consistently with the law of nations is, in effect, to deprive them of all jurisdiction, since it leaves no means
of deciding the question on which their jurisdiction
rests.
But the premises which lead to*this conclusion, will
be found no less exceptionable than the conclusion itself; and the propriety of taking into considetation the
questions which form those premiseA very qnestionable.
The opinion of those of my brethren who maintain this
doctrine, is founded upon two propositions.
1. That a nation cannot capture, on the high seas, a
vessel which has within her territories, committed a
breach of a municipal law.
2. That the condemnation in this case, was grounded
on an offence against a municipal law.
To me it appears wholly immaterial on what grounds
the decision be founded, if the case be within their jurisdiction. Indeed, this is fully admitted by those of the
court, who maintain, the doctrine that I am comsidering ; but under the idea of examining the jurisdictinn of
the court, they. appear to me to go farther.and examine
into the correctness of its decision. I do not deny that
there are circumstances material to the effect of sentenecs of foreign prize courts, into which other courts may

FEBRUARY, 1808.

28s

inquire. The authorities quoted on this point relate
eiclusively to two, viz.
1. Whether the court is held in the territory of the
sovereign who constitutes it.
2. Whether the subject was sub potestate of the sovereign whose coprts condemned it.

"17iese circumstances have an immediate relation to
the existence of the court, and of its power of acting uplon the subject; but within its legitimate scope of action,
the correctness of its proceedings, or of the rules of decision by which it is governed, cannot, in the nature of
things, anid consistently with the ideaof perfect equality
and independence, be subjected to the review of other
courts.
The decisions of such courts do not derive their effect
from their abstract justice; they are in this respect.anal,
ogous to the acts of sovereignty. They are universally
conclusive' because no where subject to revision. Among
nations they are considered as entitled to the same validity as the decisions of municipal courts, within their
respective territories, and preclude the rights of parties,
although contrary to every idea of law, reason and evidence.
The court of St. Domingo being a court of co-ordinate authority with this, was equally competent to decide
a question of jurisdiction arising under the law of na,
tions. Had the question whether a seizure under municipal law, upon the high seas, was contrary to the law
of nations-or, if contrary to the law of nations, whether
the court could noi therefore exercise jurisdiction upon
it, been brought to the notice of that court, it is presumed that their decree would not have been void, because they maintained the negative of the proposition,
Had it been made a question before that court, whe;her
the laws -of France authorised the capture Pf The Sarah
at ten leagues distance from the coast, or whether in fact
the -vessel was not seized within two leagues of the
coast, it is presumed that their decision upon these points
would have been conclusive, whatever may be the im-

Rosm

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Rosn
HV.ELY

pressioli of this court from the evidence now before us.
It is impossible for this court to pretend to a knowledge
of all the facts by which the decree of that court may
have been regulated. The decree itself shows that the
whole evidence is not liefore us; but if it were, that
court'is-sole arbiter, both of the effect of testimony,
and the credibility of witnesses. A iimilar observatioh
may be inade with regard to the laws of France, -which
much pains has been taken to prove, did not authorise
this capture. How can this court be supposed to know
all the laws, sovereign "orders, or received principles
which regulate the decisions of foreign 5ourts. Such
c6urts are best acquainted %,ith the laws of their own
government, and their decisioii, upon the existence or
effect orthose laws must, in the nature of things, be
conclusive in the'iyes of other nations. Suppose that
other 'courts were so far at liberty hs to, review the
grounds upon which such decreesprofessto proceed, the
insufficiency of those grounds would not be conclusive
against the co'hecness of such decisions, because they
may be maintainable upon other grounds, not noticed,
or even not known to the judge who pronounces them.
But if we are to look into the grounds upon which a
decree is pr6fessedly founded, extravagant as that upon
the case of The Sarah is said to be, there is one view in
which it may admit of justification. Generfil Ferrandi
in.his preamble declares it to be his leading object to
remove the contrariety of opinion which existed among
the. officers (if government relative to existing laws', ?especting captures of vessels taken upon"the coasts of St.
Domingo. If their judges thought proper to C~iosider this arrete as only declaratory of pre-existing laws,
anct that the words in the first article, "ceux expedi6
pour les portes en Jeur possession en sortant' avec ou
sans chargement, athorised the capture of vessels
outward bound, I know ro reason that ve'can 'have to
declard it a misconstruction or incorrect opiniob, or, if
incorrect, to nullify their decree on that account. 'The
conclusiveness of a fdreign sentence appears to be at"an
end, the moment oihercourts undertake to look inio the
cause for which a capture 'was 'Made. If the possessiod
of the calitor is the possession of'his sovereign, and his
courti have a right therefore to adjudicate property cap.

FEBRUARY, -iow.

257

tured, or carried into a foreign port, it appears to me to
be immaterial on what ground the capture is made. The
fact of dispossession by sovercign.authority, judicially
4certained, deprives all other courts of the right to act
ujion the case.

Upon these considerations I have adopted the opinion
that wearenot at liberty to enter intothe in.quiry, whether
the capture of The Sarah was "madeinpursuance of belligerent or municipal rights. But if we re-to enter into
the inquiry, I am of opinion that the evidence before us
plainl- mk-es out A case of belligerent Lapture, and,
though notso, that the capture may bejustified, although
for the breach of a municipal law.
I. slipport of my latter position, both principle, and
the _prq ice of. Great Britain and our on n government
may be appeded to..
The ocean 1 , e common jurisdiction of all sovereighi
powers.; from which itdoes not result that their powers
upon.the ocean exist in a state of suspensiolo.or equipoise,
bat that every power is at liberty upon the ocean to ex.
eris.e its sovereign r-ight, provided it, does na act inconsistent with. that general equality of nations which
exists upbn the.ean. The seizure of a ship.upon the.
high seas, after she has committed an act of forfeiture
within a territory, is not inconsistent with the sovereign
rights of the nation to which she belongs, because it is
the law of-reason, andthe general understanding of na.
tions, thatthe offending individual forfeits his claim tp
protection, and every.nation is the legal avenger of its
ownwrongs. Within their jurisdictional limits th6
rights of sovereignty are exclusive ; upon the ocean ;hey
are concurrent. Whatever the great principle of self
defence in its reasonable and necessary exercise will
sanction -in an individual in a state of nature, inations
may lawfully perform upon A . ocean. This principle,as well as most others, may be carried'to an unreasonable extent ; it-may be made the pretence instead of he
real ground of aggression, and then it will become a just
cause of war. I c6ntend only for its reasonablet exercise.
The act of, Gr.eatBritain, of the .24Geo. IIL c. 47. is
predicated upon these principles. It subjects vessels.to
VoL IV.

0o

Rosa
v.
H

288

Ross
v.

SUPREME'COURT U. S.

seizure, which approach with certain cargoes on board,
within the distance of four'leagues of her coast, because
it would be difficult, it not impossible to execute hey,
trade laws, if they were suffered to approach nearer ill
the prosecution of an illicit design. But it they hsve
been within that distance, they are afterwards sulbject to
be seized on the high seas. They have then violated her
Laws andIfave forfeited the protection of theii sovereign.
The laws of the United States upon the subject of trade,
appear to have been framed in sonic measure after the
model of the English statutes ; and the 29th section of
the act of 1799, expressly authorises the seizure of a
vessel. that has, within the jurisdiction. of the United
States, committed an act of forfeiture, wherever she
may be met with'by a revenue cutter, without limiting
the distance from the coast. So also the act of 1806,
for prohibiting:the importation of slaves, authorises a
seizure beyond our jurisdictional limits, if the vessel be
found with slaves on'board, hovering on the'coast; t
latitude of expression that can only be limited by'circumstances, and ihe discretion of a court, and in case of fresh
pursut, w6uld be actually without limitation. Indeed,
aifter jassing the jurisdictional limits of a state, a 'vessel
is as much on the high seas as if in the middle of the
ocean ; and if France coulrL authorise a seizure'at the
distance of two leagues, she could at the distance of
twenty.
But the capture of The Sarah may fairly be considered
as aft exercise of belligerent right, and strictly analogous
.to seizure for breach of blockade. The right of one nation to exclude all others from trading wiih her territories, exists equally in war and in peace. 'IIad the exclusion in this case been merely calculated for the inte,
rests of trade, it may 'have been considered as purely
municipal. But there existed a war betwen the parent 'state and her colony. It was not only a fact of the
most ,utiiersd notoriety, but officially notified in the
gazettes of the United States, by the proclamhtion of the
French reqident Al. Pichon, Who at the same time publishes the prohibition to trade with the revolters, with a
declaration that seizure and confiscation should be the
consequence of disobedience to this prohibition. Hire
then was notice of the existence of war, and an assertion

FEBRUARY, 1808.

2.89

of the rights consequent.upon it. The object of the
measure was not the promotion 6f"amy particular branch
of agriculure, manufacture, or commerce, but solely
the redqction of an enemy. It was therefore not merely municipal, but belligerent in its nature and object. If
France had a right to subdue the revolted colony, she
had an undoubted right to preclude all nations frony supplying them with the means of protracting the war. To
confine her.to her own jurisdictional limits, in the exercise of those acts of force which were necessary to carry into effect her right of excluding neutrals, would be
a mere mockery, when by the very state of things she
,was herself shut out from those limits. Seizure on the
high seas for a breach of the right* of blockade, during
the wvhole return voyage, .s universally acquiesced in gs
a reasonable exercise of sovereign power. The principie of blockade has indeed in modern times been pushed
to such an extravagant extent as to become a very justifiable cause of war, but still it is admitted to be consistent with the law of nations, When confined within the
limits of reason and necessity. The right to subdue an
enemy, carries with it the right to /hake use of the pecessary means for that purpose, and the individual who
does an-act inconsistent with the rights of a belligerent,
exposes himself tb.the liability to be' treakted as an enemy. The belligerent nation can exercise the same acts
of violence against him that she can against an individual
of her enemy. Nor can his sovereign protect an individual who has-committed an aggression upon belligerent rights without becoming a party to the contest.
The argumentjdrawn from the decree of Ferrand, to
prove that France had not asserted her belligcrent rights,
is evidently founded upon a mistranslation. The senteirce which authorises the seizure of vessels when outward bound, after having entered .he ports of St. Domingo, is substIantive, and totally unaffected by the subsequent sentence, which authorises a seizure of vessels
sailing within two leagues of the coast. The formerauthorises capture for the offence of having entered those
ports; the latter, for being. found in a situation from
whi[h an intention to commit that offence shall be itferred.. Nor, if the fact were so, that she had limited
the right of capture to two leagues from her coast, would

Rost
H:xSL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RosE

it follow that this was an exercise of municipal right; because a nation may restrict her subjects, in the ex rcise
of belligerent rig&ts, to a'certain distance from the coast,
or even to h"erjurisdictional limits, and yet the character
-of the seizure would be in no wise changed. If the object of the seizure is to promote the reduction of An enemy, it is an exercise of the rights of war.
From these considerations I conclude that the cppture
of The Sarah was justifiable upon principles not at all depeident ,upon municipal regulation; that it hinay fairly be
o isidered as having been made in conformity with the
law of nations-, and, therelbre, without accedIng to the
docti'ine that a seizure contrary to the law of n'ations
Was'a void seizure, and that we have a right to declare
t1hat afliere mairine trespass which a court of Irance has
declared to be the act of its sovereign, I conclude that
the cduit of St. Domingo haljurisdiction in this case ;
and if it had jurisdiction, it is admitted that the property _was Ialtered, and the libellant ought n6t to recover.
Let itbe bbserved'that this is not an application on be,
h lf of the vendee of'the ittor for the aid of' this dourt
io secure to him the benefit of his purchase. We find
him in possession, and the aiplicatioh is for our' aid to
divest that possession, and restore it to the original owner.
This owner tvas clearly n cffelnder against the rights of
France, Jand his drilly claim upon the interference of this
court is, that'he: had escaped, with thi propqrty thus acquired'; byofid tvo leagues from the shore of the nation
that hehha'dffended. "Ih' such a case it wouldbe enough
for all the purposes of the defendant, if this cburt would
imitate"the tate of our jition, and remain neutral betwveeni.the paries.
Let It'not be supposed 'that the'opinion which 1 am
giv!ng devot6ejhe cormmrerce of our xotintry to lawless
depredation. My observatijmns are applied to a dase in
Which an qviden't aggi'esribbi ha's beencommiited by'' tering at least two oft tei tedMicted ports2 o
t.' omingo. The individual who will knowinglA.Violate ithe
rights of war, 8r laivs of trade of another nationf, i well
apprised that he'fdrfeitsall lim to the protection of'his
country, or the'interfernc&oftits'courts. The geace' of

FEBRUARY,

1808.

the nation, and the interests of the fair trader, imperiously require that the smuggler, or the violator of neutrality, should-be left to his late.
If I had no other reason to satisfy my mind of the correctness of the doctrines that I have been contending
for, -aconviction of their importance to the peace and security of the mercantile world would alone induce me to
maintain them. The purchase of these goods was made
in a Spanish. port, under sanction of an agent of the
French government, apparently countenanced by the government of the country in which he acted, and is sanctioned by a condemnation. If in the purchase of articles of merchandize 'in
a foreign port, under the sanction
of sovereign authority, it is nevertheless necessary, in
order to acquire a good property, that a merchant should
know whether they were captured by law or without
law, under the law of nations, or under municipal law,
the office of a lawyer will be as necessary to his education asthe. counting house. Articles of commerce passing from hand to hand by mere delivery, often remainingfor years-in the same packages, distinguished by the
same marks, may admit of identification after any length
of time, in the remotest countries, and in the hands of
the most innocent purchasers. But if a seizure by a
sovereign, upon a ground which any court may adjudge
unsanctioned by the law of'nations, is tantamount to no
seizure, arid nothing done in pursuance of it can transfer
a good property, where is the -uncertainty to end ? With
regard to ships the inconrenience may not be so great.
Every merchant knows that a vessel must be itccompanieAl with.her document papers, so that the purchaser
may come to the knowledge of her having passed through
a capture and condemnation, and be put on his guard
againstso precarious a title. He will know that he is liable
to -be disOossessed according to the varying constructions of the law of-ations. that "mayprevail in different
countries ; yet he knows the full value of a property
thus embarrassed, But iii the purchase of merchandize
he has no securityunlems indeed he purchases them immediately from the-manufacturer orthe planter. It is a
slibject of -Curidus-speculation how far the pursuit or research after merchabdize thus situated may be carried;
whether the -sameprinciple may not extend it into the

Rosm
H

L

292
Rost
VrLY.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

hands of the retailer or even the- consumer. In one of
the cases arising out of the capture of The Sarah, I mean
that against Groning, the property is libelled in the hands
of a purchaser withou notice, after it was lijnded in this
country. If we can go so far, I see not where we fire t6
stop. Every subsequent purchaser, even the remotest)
as far as the article will admit of identification, ie in no
better situation than the defendant Groning, and liable,
upon the same principle, to be dispossessed. After going beyond the fact of seizure by sovereign aathority
within his own territory, (where he is supreme,) or upon
the ocean, (where he is equal to all others,) unaffected by
escape, recapture or release, (by which p.roperty ii restored to its state before seizure,) the approbatory sentence of his own court-(by which alone it can be judicially kno%vn to be the act of the sovereign)--beyond
these limits every step that a court takes cian only be productive of doubt, litigation and uncertainty, and involve
the commercial world in endless embarrassment, at the
same time that it compromits the peace of nations, among
whom it is a received and correct opinioi,'that a ivant of
due deference-to the jurisdiction of their maritime courts
is a just cause of war.

Sentence of the Court, March 2, 1808.
This cause came. on to oe heard on the transcript, of'
the record, and on sundry efhibits introduced into the
case in this court, and was argued by counsl, on con.;
sideration whereof, itapp~aring that The Sarah witliher
cargo .were seized without-the territorial jurisdiction
claimed by the French governmen; of St. Domingo, for
the breach of a municipal regulationi and having never
been carried, within that jurisdiction, were sold by the
captor in a foie ign' port, and afterwards condemned bS'
the court of St. Domingo, as having violated the laws for
regulating the commerce of French and foreign vessels
zwith that colony, whichlaws authorise a seizure of yessels: found .within two leagues of the coast ; it is the
opinion of the court, that the seizure of The Sarah and
her cargo is-to be considered as'a, marine trespass, not
vesting the possession in the sovereign of the captor, or

FEBRUARY, 1808.

293

givingjurisdiction to the court which passed thi seutence
Rost
of condemnation, and, therefore, that the aid sentence •H12tV.LY.
did not change the property in The Sarah and her cargo, V
which ought to be restored to the plaintiffs, the original
owners, subject to those charges of freight, insurance
and other expenses which would haie been incurred by
the owners in bringing, the cargo into the United States,
which equitable deductions the defendants are at liberty to show in the circuit court. This court is therefore of opini6n, that the sentence of the circuit court of

South Carolina ought to be reversed, and the cause be remanded to that court, in order that a final decree may be
made therein, conformably to this opinion.

HUDSON AND OTHERS v. GUESTIER,
AND

LAFONT v. BIGELOW

HU2SOn AN D
OTU 525
V.
GUFsTIE-.

THESE cases were argued in connexion with that of I a vessel,
b): a
ezed privaRose v. ffimel.
Frenc
teer,

within

MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion ot the the territorial

curr as

llows:

jurisdiction of
c a o govern.
ment or st.

This case differs from that-of &,osev. Himely in one Dumingo, for
material fact. The vessel and cargo, which constitute breach of the
the subject of controversy, were seized withinthe terri- Frenchb%,munipro.

torialjurisdictionof the government ofSt. Domingo, and
carried into a Spanish port. While lying in that port,
proceedin
were regularly instituted- in the court for
.the. island of Guadaloupe, the cargo was sold by a provisional order of that court, after which the vessel and
cargo were condemned, The single question, therefore,
which exists in this case is, did the, court of. the captor
lose its jurisdiction over the captured vessel by its being
carried intoha Spanish port.

hi tng al interoursewith
certan
rts
in thatla,
be caried by
the captors
dirctlY to a
Slanish Ni'
of cub l she
Tning while
lying there,

