FEBRUARY, 1808.

WOODS & BEMIS v. YOUNG.

WOODS AND
7.

Younz,.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district
lumbia sitting at Alexandria.

of Co- The refusal
of the court
below to cona cause,
The'plaintiffis below, Woods and Bemis, took a bill unuc
after it is at
of exceptions to the reftisal of the court to continue the issue, candiot
cause- till the- next term, upon"their motion grounded be assigned
on an affidavit stating the absence of a witness, the facts for error.

which they expected to prove by him, on a belief that
he- would prove those facts, (which appeared to be material to-the issue,) that he resided id the state ofillaryland, about 25 miles from the place of trial, had been
summoned, and promised to attend; that the cause had
been called at a former day for trial in the regular course
of the docker, and was then postponed at the request
of the plaintiffs, on account of the absence of that witness ; that the cause being now again called for trial,
the witness was still absent, but it was expected that his
attendance might be had at the next term.
The bill of exceptions stated a general iule of practice' which fiad been made at a former term, and ontered
on the minutes -of the court, and which was stilf in
force, " that when a motion shall be made for the continuance of a daixse for want of a witness, Oie affidavit
must state the fact or facts which the party. making the
affidavit expects to prove by such witness, and that the
said party verily believes that the said witness will
prove such fact or facts, and that he the deponent has
used all proper means to obtain the attendance of sruch
witness, and that he believes he shall be able to procure
the testimony of such witness at the next term, or in a
reasonable time to be therein'stated."
No motion had been made for an attachment against
the witness, or any other process to compel his attendance.

238
Woops

AND

BEMis

YjNO.

SUPREME cOUi{T U. S.

The case was submitted to the court without argu-

ment, by Swann, for thle plaintiffs, and 21oung,, for the
defendait.
By the Court.
The question is, whether a refusalto continue a cauise
can be-assigned for error.
The impression of the court is, that it cannot. Has
the party, by law, a right to a continuance in any case?
If he.has, it will have weight. Is it not merely a mAtter of favour and discretion?
This is a case in which this court cannot look into the
merits of the question, whether the court below ought
to have granted a continuance of the cause.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.*

This case wds brought up in eicpectauon that this 6urt would
bive decided the question whether an attachment can be served
upon a person who resides out of the district, but withiA 100 miles
of the place of trial, and who has been summoned and fAls to attend as a witness in a civil cause.

But the court, having intimated an opinion that the retusial to
continue the cause could not be assigned for error, the counsel
did not argue the dther point.

