FBBRUARY, -8O7.

169

STHRESHLEY AND OBANNON v. THE
UNITED STATES.

STURESB-

LIY AND

V.
The Usi'rz.
ST&TZS.

THIS was an action of debt, brought by the United
States in the'disrtrict court of Kentucky district for the
penalty of an official bond given by Sthreshley, with
Obannon" as his -surety, dated the 13th" of September,
1796, the condition of which was "that whereas the said
"Thomas Sthreghley is appointed, under the acts of
"congress laying duties upon spirits distilled within the
"United States, and upon stills, a collector of the re"venue which shall or may arise, by virtue of the seve"ral acts of congress; to be computed from the first day
"of July, 1796, and to continue until revoked by the
'".supervisor within the counties of Fayette and Clarke,
"being the first division of the first survey of the dis"trict of Ohio.'

A collector

oftherevemi
ofStates, Uftedr
removal from
Office, has no
authority to
collecttfedu.
ties outstanda at the
mofha,
moval, andrnwhichhad arcrued while
he remained
in office, but
rds power
and fluty devolves upou

"Now if the said Thomas Sthreshley, his heirs, exe- his successou.
"cutors or administrators, shall well and truly superin"tend the several distilleries and stills, and collect all
"other duties by law required of him, as mentioned in
"his said commission, in his division, shall do and per"form all the several duties which by law is or shall be
"required to be done at or within the same ; shall col"lect the duties arising thereon according to law, and
"duly account for and pay the same to the supervisor
"of the said district, or some other officer of the United
"States duly authorisgd; then this obligation to be void,
"or else to remain in full force and virtue."
The defendants pleaded,lst, general performance; and
2dly, that the appointment of Sthreshley, was revoked on
the 1st of July, 1797, and that he faithfully executed
and discharged all the duties of his said office according
to law, accruing from the said 1st day of July, 1796,
until the 1st day of July, 1797, inclusive, and all things
relative thereto.
The breach, assigned in the replication, was, that
Sthreshley " did not well and truly account for and pay

1 0
STHR.S1LEY A^ D

0

D

TIe U.sxT
STA I

"' ~

LS.

suPEM ICOUR

T V. S.

" to the supervisor of the district in his said obligation
"mentioned, or to any other afliccrof the U.nited States
' . duly authorised to. receivw the same, the several
du"¢ties i ing and accruing within his said division during
"his continuance in office, -ander the laws of the United
"States ind his said commission, and which by virtue
"of the said obligation and commission thesaid laws of
" the I Jnited States.did require him -to.account for.and
pay over ; -but hadi failed therein and is in arrear to
"the said United States in the sum-of two thousand ont
"hundred and seventy-one dbllara and twenty-nine cents,
"and three fourths ofa cent," upon which breach an
issue was tendered and joined ; upon the trial 'hereof a
bill of exceptions was taken by the, defendants to the refusal of the court, to admit evidence that at the time vf
the revocation of his commission, there were outstanding ind uncollected by him duties to the amountof 2,285
dollars and 83 cents which had accrued during his continuance in office, and which cbnstituted part of the account charged against him and for the balance whereof
the present suit was brought; and that the defendant
bad delivered over to his successor in office tiue accounts
of the said outstanding duties, for collection.
This evidence was'rejected under the opinion that the
defendant, although his commission was revokeal,had
authority and was in law bound to collect all the outstanding duties which had accrued during his continuance in office.
The verdict and judgment in the court below, being
in favor of-the United States, the defendants brought
their writ of error.
H. Marshallforfilaintipsin error,suggested a doubt
whether the bond was not void, inasmuch as there was
no law of the United States which authorised the supervisor to demand it, or required the officer to give it.
JoHcsoN, J. How can that question arise upon the
plea of perfprmance .

H. farshall. If the bond is totally void, it will not
s'upport ajudgment under any form,of pleading. He
did not, however, ihean to press the objection.

FEBRUARY,

18o.

171

The principal question, viz. whether the power of the STrHnZSofficer to collect the outstanding duties which had ac- LFY A-n
crued while he was in office, ceased with his removal,
.
was submitted without-argument.
The UNITED
STAT6~.

2?odney, Attorney General, referred the court to the
laws of United States, Vol. 1.P. 304. s. 5, 6 and 16.Val. 2. p. 82.-Vol. 3. p. 80 and 421.-and Vol. 4.
p. 191.
February 28.
MAPSH&ALL, Ch. J. delivered the unanimous opinion
of the court, that the power of the officer to collect the

outstanding duties ceased upon his removal from office,
and devolved upon his successor. A contrary construction wounld be extremely injurious to the revenues of the
United States, and could not have been intended by the
legislature.
The officer can only be liable to pay over the money
he has collected, unless he is charged with a neglect of
duty in not collecting.
In the present case the breach assigned is for notpaying, and no breach is assigned in not collecting, the duties. The bill of exceptions shows that the defendant
Sthreshley- had paid over and accounted for all the duties he had collected.
judgment reversed.

