SUPREME COURT U. S.

1TjIEUI TzD
STATES'
V.

BriG Usxio.,
&c.

THE UINITED STATES v. THE 1IRIG UNIOI4,
THE SLOOP SALLY AND CARGO,
AND THE SLOOP DEBORAH
AND-CARGO,-

I is incumTHESE-were three separate libels against these three
bent uipon the vessels which were seized by the collector of the dist itiffin er-

ror to shw trict of Delaware for a supposed breach of the revenue
that this court laws. The sentence of the court below being in favour
has jurisdic- of the claimants, the United States appealed.
tion of

the

case.
This court - room,Tor the'appellees, objeced to the jurisdiction
.will permit of this court, *because there was no rule to consolidate
viva
beI the cases, and in neither of them separately did the value
timonyoceto tesgiven of the of the thing in dispute, exclusive of costs, appear to be
vahm of the 2,000 dollars.
matter in dis-

R
'ute.
The
.
- Reed, United States Attorney for the district.of Delapraisement
ware, said it was incumbent on the claimants to show
made by or- the value, as they had submitted to the jurisdiction
der of the dis- below.
trict judge by
three

sworn

Appraisers, is

BLit -tir Court said that the plaintiff in errqr must
notconclusive show that this court hasjurisdicti6n. The circuit court
evidence of
the value, buit catf nei.hr give nor take away the jurisdiction of this
it is better ev- court. This court must judge for itself of its own jurisidence than diction.,
the opinion of
a single witness examin-

it witness was then introduced in behalfof the United
ed viva vaor States; who was sworn and examined viva voce in open
inopen coart., om0 t trovethe value.
v
o- t
After deciding
tion the
of quesalue Broom, for the appellees, read trom the record an apupon
the praisement, made by three sworn appraisers, by order
weight of the of the district judge, by which the brig Union was ap_.vidence, the
court will not praised at 1,800 dollars, the sloop Sally at 400, and the
continue the sloop Deborah at 600, and contended that this appraise-

cause for the ment being made by order of the judge, was conclusive
Partde tOPro- evidence of the value of the matter in dispute, although

e-idence'as.t
the talue.

that appraisement was never acted upon by the claimants

FEBRUARY, i0S.
giving caution so as to liberhte the vessels, which was TnzUrz
thereiason ofthe order for appraisement, according to the STA,V. XA
89th section of the revenue laW, 4 vo. p. 498. But if Brax Uzott,
it should not be deemed conclusive evidence, yet it is
&C.
better evidence than the opinion of a single Vitness who
9w-forms a judgment'rom his rec'ollectibri of the vessels two years ago. Itis the testimony of three persons,
who formed their judgment at the time from an actual
view and examination of the property. It was returned
4o the court and fled and entered upon record, without
any objection on the part of the United States.
Rodney, Attorney General, contra.
If the court below cannot by any act oust this court of
its jurisdiction, much less can any df its officers or appraisers. If thisvaluation be conclusive, it puts it in the
power of appraisers appointed by the court below to de-

pive this court of its jurisdiction.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The appraisement is not conclusiv.e evidence of the value, but in this case it is the
best evidence.- It was made by officers of the court under its order; and was regularly returned and filed. It
does not impeach the credibility of the witness now examined, for the value is a matter depending upon opinion,
and with respect to which the judgments of men may
honestly vary. The appraised value would have been
the matter in dispute if the property had been delivered
up tothe climants upon security given.

Todd, Livingston, Washington, Chase and Cushng,
Jfistices, concurred.
Joirmsoz, J. contra. The appraisement,was a thing
not perfected. It was not acted upon, aiid might have
been impeached.
The appeals were all dismissed for want of jurisdic-tion in this cotrt.
No objection was made to the tiva -vocc examination
of the witness as to the value.

SUPREME cOURT U., S.

218

"1MEUNITED

On the next day,

ST.A-TZS
BRXG UNxo2,

&c.

Rodney, Attorney General, movdthe court for a continuance of these Causes, and leave to take affidavits reSspecting the value of the property, so as to sustain the
jurisdiction. This vourt fias only decided that its jurisdiction does not appear upon the record. It is like the case,
of -Coursev. Stiad's Executors, 4 Dall, 25. whete, the
court continued the cause, and suffered affidavits to bd
taken to show-the value of the matter in dispute. Ifthm
court should be of opinion that the decision of yesterday
uponi the weight of testimony differs thia- case from that
of Course v. Stead, they will reject the *otion.
Broom, contra.
If this motion had been madelyesterday, before the
decision of the court upon the weighi of testimony, perhaps it might have been proper, but after the parties have
put themselves on trial upon the'evidence then before

the codrt, and the decisiot- has been made, it is not usual
to open the case and grant a new trial, unless new. evidence is- suggested to have been discovered since the
tial, not known W the party at the time of trial.
MARPtALL, Ch. J. Cannot thd United States sue
out a new writ of error, anid take new affidavits to show
the cause to b4 within our jurisdiciion I If so, perhaps
the court would not put the United States to that expense. -

Rodney apprehended it would be final, it being an appeal, and not a writ of error.
The Cou:t overruled the motion.

