B-EBRUARY, 1808.

POLLARD AND PICKETT v. DWIGHT
ET AL.

POLLAUDiP1CS5TT
V.
DWI0 IT
ET AL.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Con- The appearance of the
necticut.
defendants to
foein atDwight and others brought a foreign attachment.' tachment
in a
against Pollard and Pickett, in the county court of circuit court
Hartford, and, declared in an action of covenant upon of the United
a deed of bargain and sale, in fee-simple, of certain States, waives
iecnonof to
latids in the county of Wythc, and commonwealth
of
service
Virginia, by which the defcndants below covenanted
that they were " lawfully seised of the lands and pre- procssdistric
mises, with their appurtenances, and had good right and .Te
in manner alone bold a
lawful authori-t to sell and convey the same,
and form aforesaid ;" and the breach assigned was, circuit court,
"that they were not, nor were any or either of them althouglithere
judge
and.possessed" of any -estate whatever in be nosupreme
lawfully seisedlawfullyofthe
the said land and premises, nor in any part thereof, nor court allotted
had the said Pollard and Pickett, or either of them, tothatcircuit.
An beaction
stupgood right and lawful authority to sell and convey the may
on
a
ported
aforesaid."
as
premiscs
and
said land
covenant

The defendants appeared, and removed the catise to -le,
the circuit court of the United States for the district of the

of

althr'
plaintife

Connecticut, and there pleaded to the jurisdiction of
the court, and prayed "judgment whether the honourable Pierpont 'Edwards, district judge of the district of
Connecticut holding said court, there being no justice
of the supreme court of the United States present in
court, will have cognizance of the said- cause, because
they say that, by the law of the United States, the

evicted; and
the declaration need not
aver an evicion.
Undertheforeign attachConticut,

circuit court of the second circuit in the district of Connecticut, shall consist of the justice of the supreme
court residing in the third circuit, and the district judge
of the district of Connecticut; and that whenthe said
law was enacted, viz. on the 3d of March, 1803., the
honourable William Paterson was the onlyjustice of the
supreme court residing in the said third circuit, and

an absent person, who is
for daliablemesfor
breach of his

that he died on or about the loth of September last past,

covenant, isan
absent DEIr0' The M.
certificte
ctas
reof sur'e

SUPREME COURT U. S.
and that there is not now, nor hath there been, since the
death of the said Paterson, any justice of the supreme
court residing in the said third circuit; and there hath
DwIGHT
,,r AL-.
not been by the supreme court of the United States, cr
~ by the president of the United States, any allotment of
tirned bya le- a ,chief justice or an associate justice of the supreme
POLLARD &
PIIKETT

gal swotn sur-

Vir- court ofthe United States to the soid second circuit, and
veyur
ginia, in
cannot
this they are ready to verify," &c. xyhich plea, upon
e invalidateA general demurrer, was overruled, and a iespondeav
by
a prtictlar fiat,
tend- ouster awarded, .whereupon the defendants pleaded
to show that they were, at the date of the deed, 11well scised
inlg
an impossibil- and possessed of thd said land, and had good right to
ity that the bargain and sell the same,, in manner as is alleged
urey could inthe said deed, and so they have kept and performed
have been
ntdan
sotehaekpanprfmd
made in the their said covenants, and of this put themselvbs on the
time interve-

ning
between
te
date
of the
entry
and
the

country,"-"*and the plaintiffs likewise."

The verdict was for the plaintiffs, and damages asdate of the sessed to 27,497 dollars, The defendants moved in arcertificate
of rest 'of judgment, because it appears, by the declarasurvey.
On
the t,:ial of an tion, that the said deed was executed, and the
lands lie
action in Con- in the state of Virginia; and because the declaration is
necticut for. insufficient, and will not support an) judgment ; but
breah of a the motion was overruled, and judgment rendered on
covenant

of

.leisinof lands the verdict.
in

Virginia,

the question
On the trial, a bill of exceptions was taken, which
whether a pa- stated that the defendants claimed to be seised under a
tent from the

stat6ofVirgi- patent to them from the governor of Virginia, dated
nia for the March 20, 1795, and grounded on a survey in favour
;]-ndsbevoid- of David Patterson, by virtue of an entry, dated Sepable,

. is

not

examinable. , tember 1, 1794, on -sundry treasury Warrants, tothe
Parol testi- amount of 150,000 acres, and completed on the 8th day
mony is not of September, 1794, which survey had been assigned
admissible, in to the defendant, Pollard ; whereupon the plaintifls ofan action on

the covenant
of seisin, to
prove prior
claims upon
tie land.

fered to read in evidence cofiies of two surves' made
for one Wilson Carey Nicholas, by virtue of two- entries made on the same Ist of September, 1794, in the
office'of the same surveyor, one to the amount of
600,000 acres, and the other to the amount of 480,000
acres, the greater part of which laid in the county of
VVythe, and bounding on the land surve.'ed for Patterson ; and that the said survey for" 566,000 acres purported to be completed on the 9th of.September, 1794.,

FEBRUARY, 1808.
nnd-that for 480,000 on the 10th of thbe same month,
and that the extent of all the lines of the said suveys
was more than 320 miles; and offered to prove by
Erastus Granger, that the nearest part of th said lands
to the office of the surveyor of NVythe county, was distant therefrom two days' journey. ; and that a'surveyor
could not, in that county, survey a line longer than seven miles in a day; and-that he (Erastus Granger) had
surveyed the land surveyed for Patterson, and found
marked trees only for about three or four miles from
the starting point of the survey, and two or three only
of the first corners mentioned in the survey, and that
the streams ran in opposite directions to those laid down
in -the plot; which testimony of the said Granger wasn
offered to prove that Patterson's survey was .fraudulent
and not made conformably to the laws of Virginia ; and
the plaintiffs further offered to prove, by the testimony
.of the said Granger, that there were prior'claimstipon
the land in question to the amount of upwards of 90,000
acres. It was admittea'that Granger was not a nworn
surveyor. The defendants objected to the above evidence, but the -court overruled the objection, and suffered it to'go to the jury.
The defendants sued out their writ of error to this
court, and the errors assigned were,
1. That theplea to the jurisdiction ought to havebeen
allowed.
2..That the evidence stated in the bill of exceptions
ought not to huve been admitted,
3. That the declaration is insufficieit.
4. That the title -of the land could not be tried in
Connecticut.
5. That .the circuit court had not jurisdiction, the
plaintiffs being citizens of Massachusetts atid Connecticut, and the defendants citizens of Virginia, not found
in the district of Connecticut.
VoL. IV.

rOLLAnD &
niCKETT

V
DwIGHT
ET AL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'OL.LAtD &

6. That the judgment ought to have been rendered

"IcKET" for the defendants.
V.

+DWIGHIT

rT AL.

C. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error.
This is a prosccution against an absentee for breach
of covenant.
The aft of Connecticut only authorises such process
against a debtor, not against a inan'who may be liable
for unliquidated damages on a breach of covenant. The
words.of the Connecticut law, fo. 35. are, " absent or
absconding debtors," and the defendants are so called
in the decliration. It could never be the intention of
the legislature of Connecticut to try the title to land in
Virginia by the process of foreign' attachment in Connecticut.
Two questions arise in this cause.
1. Whether the circuit court had jurisdiction ; and,
2. Whether the evidence stated in the bill of exceptions was admissible.
1. The law is the same in this case on the point of
jurisdiction, as if the suit had been originally commenced in the circuit cotirt. Laws U. S. vol. . p. 56.
a\ 12. and b), the 1Ith section of the same act, the circuit court has nojurisdiction but over inhabitants of the
state, or over persons found therein and served with
Process. Vol. 1. p. 55. Process by attachment on effects of persons not inhabitants, cannot be maintained
in the circuit courts of the United States, 2 Dall. 396.
Hollingworth v. Adams.
A plaintiff may assign for error the wait of jurisdiction in that court to which he has chosen to resort, 6'do
pron v. Van Naorden, (ante, vol. 2. p. 126.) Beecher's
case, 8 Co. 99. Bernardv. Bernard, 1 Lev. 289. And
in the case of Diggs and Keith v. Wolcott, in this court,
at last term, (ante, p. 179.) the appellants had removed
the cause from the state court to the circuit court, wh,o
decreed against them, and on their appeal to this court

FEBRUARY, 1808.

425

the decree was reversed for want of jurisdiction in the POLLAU
PICXTT
circuit court.
V.

Where the court has a limited jurisdiction, the facts
which bring the case within that jurisdiction uust ali-pear on the record. 9 lfod. 9s. 3Dall.382. Bingham
v. Cabot. 2 Cranch, Woodv. Wae'non.
Upon the demurrer to the plea to. the jurisdiction,
the whole" record is open to examination ; and the defendant mavavail himself of"every substantial objection to the declaration, 6r to the writ, as it is made a
part of the record. The declaration itself shows tlat
the lands which are the subject of the covenant are in
the state of Virginia ; that the deed was there executed;
and that the title of those lands is drawn in question.
It-appears, then, upon the face of the declaration, that
the action is local, and can be tried only in.Virginia.
The -declaration also states Pollard and Pickett to b(
" of the county of Henrico and state of Virgihia," anq
that they are " absent and absconding debtors ;" and
therefore the circuit court was excluded frQnh the cognizance of the case by the 11th section of thejudiciary
act of 1789, vol. 1. p. 55.
The declaration is 'also defective in not avorring an
eviction, or.a better tide out of the plainti.s inerror. 1
W~ilar'" Hassachuse1t6 Reports, 464. 2Emerson v. NPioperty of Atinot. 4 T. R. 620.
But the plea in abatement ought to have been allowed. The act of congress of March 3; 1803, (voL 6..p.
315.) enacts "'that the circuit court of the second circuit shall consist of 'the jh1stice of the supreme court
)residing within the third circuit, and the district judge
of thedistrict where such court shall be holden ; ' andL
by the act of 29th of April, 1802; Vol. 6. p. 88: it is
" Pr6vided, that when only one of ihejudges, hereby
directed to -hold-the circuit courts, shall attend, such
court may be held by the judge-so attending." The 5th
section of the same act provides for the allatmernt of the
judges' among the cifcuits, in cpse of a new appoint.
meat of a judge; but makes no provision in case of a
vacancy.

DWIGHT
n- sL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
I'OLLARD &

PICKET'
V.

Dwt T

1

-TAL.

There can be no circuit court in the second circuit,
unless there be a justice of the supreme court allotted
to that circuit. If the circuit court isto consist of a
particular justice of the supreme court and a district
judge, it cannot exist without such a justice of the supreme court. A whole consists of all its parts. If any
part be wanting it is not -a whole. A session of thr
court may be holden by one judge, but the court must
be in existence.
Whenever there are not two judges of the court in
existence, its functions are suspenqed.
2. As io the bill of exceptions.
The papers said to bd copies of surveys for Nicholas,
ought not to have been admitted in evidence. Nicholas wgs-no party to this suit,.and even if there had been
evidence that such' surveys were ever made, and that
these were true copies, theS' could not be evidence in
this cause.
The testimony of Erastus Granger was inadmissible.
He was allowed to testify that he had surVeyed th&land,
and that there were prior claims upop it to the amount
of 90,000 acres. If he ever made such survey, it was
exparte, and as the-agent of the appellees. Evparte
surveys are inadmissible evidence as to boundaries. 2
Lord Rayn. '34. Bridgmore v. .7ennings.
Illegal or improper evidence, however unimportant
or irrelevant, should not be confided to a jury, because
it may mislead them, 2 Wash. 281. Lee v. Tapscott.
Parol testimony is incompetent to invalidate a title to
lands inVirginia, which is to be decided according to
the laws of that state.
Unless the prior claims were founded upon dedds or
writings, they could. not be set up against a patent from
the state ; and if they were founded upon deeds or
writings, they ought-to be produced.
No lands in Virginia can pass or be conveyed but by'
deed in writing, acknowledged or proved, and recorded.

.FEBRUARY, 1808.
.Martin,on the same side, in support of the objection that the declaration did not aver an eviction, cited
1 14.od. 292. 1 Saund. 58. 3 Wfrentworth, 4.0. 2 M.[od.
Intrandi, 206, 207. 1 Harris'Entries, "526. 531.
Harper, contra.
According to the decisions of the courts in Connecticut, a foreign attachment will lie for damages on a
breach of covenant. The distinction is only taken between debts and torts. What is not a tort is a debt,
within the' meaning of their act of assembly. 2 Swift,
177.

According to the mode of surveying lands in Virginia, by the 23d section of their land law, it is im.
possible to execute the surveys in the time which intervened between the dates of the entry and of the survey. The evidence offered was to show that the survey
was fraudulent. It was to show that surveys, said tc
be made in eight days, could not have been made ir
eight weeks.
The bill oF exceptions states the papers to be copies oi
the surveys, and ex vi termini, a copy means a true
copy ; for if it be not a true copy, it is no copy. The
objection was not that they were not copies, but that
copies of such-papers were not admissible evidence.
The testimony of Granger was to show that the land
was included in prior surveys. it was a necessary link
in the chain of proof to show title out of the plaintifTs in
error.

It was notnecessary to aver, or to prove an eviction.
The case in Williams' Reports is upon a covenant to
warrant; which is, .in eflect, a covenant for quiet enjoyment.' So was the case in 1 llfoad. 292. In the case
from Saunders, the covenant was that he was seised. It
is true that proof of eviction is one mode of showing a
want of title, but it is not the 6oly mode. In Horsford
v. Aggard, Kirby's Rep. S. it is decided that ,evction is not necessary to recover on a covenant of seisin.
If the plaintiff can show that the defendant had a de-

POLLAnM &
PICKE-kT

DwG .T
EAL

SUPREME COURT U. S.

428
POLLARD &
P CKnETT

35wIGHT
ET AL.

'

fective title, it is sufficient. What use would there be
a.covenant of seisin, in addition to the covenant of
warranty, if the former requires thc same evidence as
the latter ?
"atin,in reply.
If the papers offered were copies, it does not appear
that the originals could not be had.

After Pollard and Picketthad produced a grant under the state of Virginia, the plaintiffs below must have
showvn a better title in some other .person, (Cro. 7ac.
304. Salman v. Bqg.yhaw,) but they only attempted to
prove irregularity in the survey.*
The patent gave a good title, even if there had been
no survey.. "Thesurveyor himself could not have been
permitted to contradict his "certificate. It does not appear how long the surveyor wfls employed in making
the survey. ' It could only bear date on one day, and
whether that was the day on which he began or finished
it, does not appear. It is no evidence of fraud.
Mr. lartin declined arguing the points respecting
the jurisdiction and the form of the declaration, as the
court seemed strongly inclined against him ; but he
thought it a fatal objection to the declaration that it did
not aver an eviction ; and that the action was local, and
not tran-3itory.
Allarce 15.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows, viz.

In this case objections have been made to the jurisdiction of the circuit couart, and to the proceedings in
that court.

The point of jurisdiction made
error is considered as free from il
ing to the action, the def~ndantg
placed themselves precisely in the

by the plaintiffs in
doubt. By appearin 'the court below
situation in which

FEBRUARY, 1898.

429

they would have stood, had process been served upon POLL4u, U
them, and consequefitly waived all objections to the PlCKLT
non-service of process. Were itotherwise. the duty DWv9GHT
of the circuit court would have been to remand the
ET AT
cause to the state court in which it was instituted, and
this court would be bound now to direct that proceeding. As little foundation is there for the exception
taken to the manner in which the circuit court was constituted. -That court consists of two judges, any one
of whom is capable of performing judicial duties. So
this court consists of seven jodges, any four of whom
may act. It has iever been supposed that the death of
three of thejudges would disquali .ythe remaining four
from discharging their official duties until the vacant
seats of their departed brethren should be filled. There
is nothing in the peculiar phraseology of that part. of
thejudicial act which establishes the circuit courts, that
requires a different construction of the words authorising a single judge to hold those courts, from what .is
usually given in other cases, to clauses authorising a
specified number of justices to constitute a court.
The exceptions taken to the proceedings of the circuit court are more serious. These are,
1. To the pleadings.
2. To the opinions of that court, admitting certain
testimony in support of the action.
The objections to the pleadings are,
That the different parts of the declaration are repugnant to each other; arid that the declaration is itself ineufficient, as the foundation of a judgment.
In deciding on so much of this objection as depends
on the laws of Connecticut, this court would certainly
be guided by the construction given by that state to its
own statute; and, if it was indispensably necessary now
to decide that question, the evidence in favour of the
construction maintained by the defendants in error would
seem to preponderate.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

IOLLAD.&
PICKTT
V.

DwIGHT

Another objection taken to the declaration is, that it
ought to have alleged a disseisin of the plaintiffs below,
in order to enable them to maintain their action.

ET AL.

.On

this part of'the case, the court can only consider
whether the declaration in itself, unconinected with the
testimony which was adduced to support it, is so radically defective, that a judgment cannot be rendered on
it. This leads to the inquiry, whether the covenant of
the vendors can be broken, as stated in the declaration,
although no eviction has taken place ; and the court is
of opinion that it may be so broken. 9 (7o. 60.
The covenant is, that the vendor is seised in fee of
the premises which he sells and conveys. Suppose the
fact to be that he had no title nor pretence of title to
those premises ; that he had conveyed lands for which
he had never received a patent or a title of any kind.
Could it be said that his covenant that be was soised in
fee remained.unbroken until the real proprietor should
think proper to eject the vendee? This question,' in
the opinion of the court, must be answered in the negative. The testimony, which would be sufficient, to
establish the 'breach assigned, may be a subject for serious consideration; but on the sufficiency ot the breath
as assigned to support ajudgment, there is no doubt.
The exceptions to the testimony admitted in the circuit court consists of two parts.
1st. To the admission of certain copies of surveys
made fqr Wilson Carey Nicholas, connected with the
testimony of Erastus Granger, describing the face of the
country on which the surveys purported to be. made.
2d. To the admission of parol testimny to prove
prior titles to the lands conveyed in the deed on which
this suit was instituted.
1. The surveys of Wilson Carey Nicholas, and the
explanatory testimony of Granger, were introduced,for
the purpose of showing that the patent for the lands sold
by Pollard and.Pickett. vas void, becattse it issued on a

FEBRIARY 1808.

431

'platrepresenting a survey which, in point of fact, could
not have been made.

POLL AUD
PiCYrTT

In examining this exception, it becomes proper to
inquire what was the real issue between the parties.

D i,.

The plaintiffs below averred in their declaration that
the defendants were not seised and possessed of any
estate whatever in the land and premises, nor in any
part thereof, nor had they or either of them good
right and lawful authority to sell and convey the same.
The defendants,- in their plea, do not set ,forth their
title, but say generally that they -were seised of th
land sold and conveyed by them, *and had good right to
sell and convey the same, as is expressed by their deed.
On this plea an issue is tindered, which is joined by the
plaintiffs.
To prove that the survey on which the pitent granting
the lands to the defendants was issued could not have
been made,- the plaintiffs produced two other surveys
nmade by the same person for Wilson Carey Nicholas,
which were said to be cbmpleted only two days su~ceeding- the comipletion of the survey of the defendants,
which three several surveys could not possibly have
been made in the time intervening between the entries
-in.the surveyor's office and the day on which they are
alleged to have been complited, whence the jury might
conclude that the survey of Pollard and Pickett was not
made.
The-surveyor was a sworn officer, and his survey was
returned upon. oath. This is an attempt to invalidate
the evidence derived -from his official return,, by a par-ticular fact which has no relation to the cause before
the court, and with vhiqh the parties to this controversy
,have no connection. Had it even appeared that the
copie§ offered in evidence were authenticated, they
would,*'on this account, have been inadrmissible.
This whole testimony is inadmissible on other ground.
Were iteven true that this patent is voidable, if the
surveyoi-'had not run round all the lines of the land, a
V'01. IV.'

3 1

V.

432
POLLARD &
PXCKTT
V.

DwIoHT
LT Al ..

e

w

SUPREME COUA1T U. S.

point not yet established, it canlot bo deemed absolutely void; it cannot be deemed a mere nullity. While
it remains in force it is a valid title, and vest the feesimple estate in the p~tentee." In this action, and on
the trial of this issue, the question whether the patent
be voidable.by Virginia op not, is not properly examinable. Testimony, therefore, tending to establish that
point, is irrelevant and inadmissible.
2. But had the court enteritaned any doubt on this
point, the second part of tht exception would be clearly
decisii'e with regard-to this judgment.
Parol testimony is admitted to show prior claims to
the land in controversy. The defendants in'eerror attempt to defend the admission of this te.stimony, by
supposing it auxiliary to other testimony which had previously established the validity of those claims, and that
this witness was only adducdd to show that those claims
covered this land.. Had the fact supported the argument,, a private exparte survey would have been a very
improp -r mode of establishing it; but the language' of'
the exception excludes that construction of the opinion
which the counsel for,the defendants in error would put
upon it. The proof offered anol admitted is, not that
those particilar titles which were exhibited and' proved
to the court covered the land conveyed by Pollard and
Pickett, hut " that there were prior claims upon it to
the amount of upwards of ninety thousand acres." The
prior claims rest upon the oath of the witness., If those
claims were valid, their validity wai established by his
testimony, which cannot be tolerated on any legal principle; if they were mere claims, not good titles, they
ought not to have been stated to the jury. They were
irrelevant to the point in issue.
Upon the whole, the court is unanimously of opinion, that the circuit court 'erred in permitting the copies of surveys made for Wilson Carey Nicholas, and,
the testimony of Erastus Granger, to go to the jury for
the purposes mentioned in the bill of exceptions, and

FEBRUARY, 1808.
that the judgment of the circuit court must, on that ac- POLLAtD
count, be reversed, and the cause remanded for a new P1OZ"TT
DWIGHT
ET AL

Judgment reversed.

EX PARTE LEWIS AND OTHERS.

Ex

ARTz-

TL.%VIs A.ID
OTU~nS.

IN the circuit court for the district of Pennsylvqnia,
at November term, 1806, a motion was made by Rawle,
in behalf of Leivis and others, (the jurors in civil cases
who had .attended the court at that session;) that the
marshal be ordered to pay each of the jurors one dollar
and twenty-five cents for each day's attendance;

The jurors
in cavil cases,
attnding tho
ciUicuit of the
uiated States
for the Pennsylvania district, are en-

titled to one
But the judges of that court being divided in opinion d,,Uar and 2
cents each for
upon the question, it was certified to this court.
each day a atThis Court ordered it to be certified, that the jurors tmndafce.
were entitled to the fee of one dollar and twenty-five
cents per diem for their attendance.
' After the opinion of the cqurt was delivered, Lee prayed that
the cause might be remanded, vith leavefor the dt rndane below to

ampad theirpleadings

The Court said, that the court below had the power to grant leave
to amend, and this court could not doihbt but it wuuld do what was

right, in that respect.

