I!EBRIUARY, 1809.

HIGGINSON v. MEIN.

HI[GGI2NS01
V

Dirt,-

THIS was an. appeal from .a decree 6f the circuit
court for the district of Georgia, which dismissed the
eamp lainant's bill brought to foreclos, a mortgage.

The act of
Georgia con.
fiscating the
estate of the
mortgagor, iW

The facts,.as stated by Milarshall, Ch. J. in deliver- no bar to the
claim of the
ing the opinion of the court, were as follows:
mortgagee, a

British mer-

In November, 1769, Alexander Wylly, then residing chant, vhose
in Georgia, executed his bond to Greenwood and Hig-. debt was only
1081. equetercl
of5
gmso, o
London, for the
Lononfor
ofmechats
he sum
'm
o 2,181.during
tile
ginson, merchants
4s. sterling, conditioned to pay 1,0541. 2s. like money, war. The
on or before the 1st of January, 1773 ; and also executed estate of the
a deed of mortage, (which was admitted to record in the mortgagor
only was, consecretary's office) to secure the payment of the bond. fincated, not
Alexander Wylly took part with the British in the war that of the
of our revolution, in consequence of which his estate mortagee.
was confiscated, and 'commissioners were appointed to limitations of
take possession of it and t6 sell it. In 1784,- the Imort- Georgia doea
gaged premises were sold and conveyed by the com- not apply to
missioners to certain persons in Savannah,
r0tgageel.
- 'who sold and The
poses.
conveyed them to James -Houston, who retained peace- sion of the
able possession of them until his death. In 196 these mortgagor is
lands were sold under execution by the marshal, to sa. not adverse.
Quere,
tisfy a judgment obtained against James Mossman, as ther
a vihe.preexecutor of James Houston.
The purchaser at the sumption of
marshal's sale had notice of the mortgage deed to Green. payment - of
the debt des
wood and Hinson
notarise from
ggi .
the circum.
This suit is brought against the agent of the pur- stances of this
chaser, [to whom notice, was given, and to wihom the case .
purchaser has since conveyed his right,] in -order to
obtain payment of the debt due'from Wylly, and to
foreclose all equity of redemption in the mortgaged
premises. The bill was filed on the 4th of November,
1802.
Vol. IV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
H1xo1.cso.V
V.

Mt n.

P. -B. Key,. for the appellant.
The treaty of peace of 1783 removed all legal impediments to the recovery of debts. By the fourth article," It
is agreed that creditors on either side shall meet with no
lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in
sterling money, of all bonafide debts heretofore contracted." And by the 5th article, " It is agreed that
all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands,
either by debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise,
shall rheet with no lawful impediment in the prosecution
of their just rights." At the time of the treaty, this
land was not sold, but holden by the state under the
confiscation act. After the treaty, the state held it
subject to the moitgage, and could sell only such right
as it had. It cQuld at most sell Wylly's right of redemption.
Harper, contra.
The estate both of the mortgagor and mortgagees ia
this la id was confiscated, and vested in the state of
Georgia. If the.treaty is to set up the title, no estate
of a British subject indebted to a British subject could
ever be confiscated; for the land may be the only fund
out of which the creditor can get payment.
The impediments intended to be removed by the treaty were only legal impediments, not every thing which
went to impairthe security; not that which merely ren,dered the debtor less able to-pay. Confiscations were
not included under the expression legal impediments,
because there is a separate provision for the case of confiscations. If confiscations were meant to be included
in the expression, it might as well be extended to any
general acts of the legislature by which the debtor's
means of payment maybe diminished. This being .a
particular lien, does not differ the case from that of a
general lien. Everyjudgment-creditor had alien upon
all the lands of his debtor, and if all these liens are
saved by the treaty, there were very few confiscations
which it would not annul.

FEBRUARY,

1808.

I The fifth article of the treaty extends no furtherthan HzrrzN.so:,
W
the fourth.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The decisions of. this court have
been uniform, that the' aqts of the states, confiscating
debts, are repealed by the treaty; and if, in this cage,
the debt remains, does not the security remain also ?
Is not the remedy as much protected by the treaty, as
the debt itself?

Harper. We contend not.
The lapse of SO years induces a presumption that the
bond is satisfied. We do not rely upon the statute of
limitations, but the general presumption. In England,
it is decided that the presumption arises by the lapse of?
20 years without a demand or payment of interest.
MARSHALL, Ch.J. The period of 20 years is fixed
upon in case -f a bond, because in that time the interest
at five per cent equals the principal; and rio further interest is coveied by the penalty of the bond.

Harper. That is not the reason stated in the English
books.
But the reason is, that a man is presumed to depend
upon the interest of his money as a revenue.
The fact of the plaintiff's being beyond seas does
not remove the presumption, because both parties were
equally beyond seas, and probably both within oneju,
risdiction.
P. B. Key, in reply.
The fifth article of the treaiy expressly provides for
the case.- How can a man have an interest, by debt, in
'cofifiscated lands, unless it be by mortgagei or other
lien., The practice- in Maryland has always been to
prot'ect such liens.
LIVINGSTON, J. -I have never heard that confiscated
property has been restored by force of the treaty. The

SUPREME COUI T U. S.
.1{cuX-soN treaty only provides that congress shall recommend such
V.
restitution.
Key. Debts due to British subjects ware not confiscated by the act of Georgia. They were only sequestered.
1farch 14.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. after stating the facts of 'the case,
delivered the opinion of the court as follows:

It is contended on the part of the purchaser,
1st. That the lands are exonerated from the mortgage by the confiscation and sale thereof made, by the
state of Georgia.
2d. That they are exonerated by the length of time
which has intervened since that confiscation and sale,
during v&hich an adverse possession has been held.
ad. That payment of the mortgage is to be presumed.
Several acts of confiscation, were passed during the
war by the state of Georgia, in which the name of
Alexander Wylly is to be found. That tinder which
the defendants in this case claim,-was made in the month
of May, in the year i782. That act contains also a
clause confiscating generally the estates of British subjects, with the exception of debts due to merchants residing in Great Britain, which were sequestered. The
debt due to Greenwood and Higginson came within
this exception, and the majority of'the court is of opinion, that the lien given by thd mortgage on the land of
Wylly, for the security of that debt, was not confiscated.
The estate of Wylly, not the interest of GreenwooiI
and Higginspn in-that estate, being confiscated, it is not
to be inferrecit that the lien of Greenwood and Higginson
on that estate was discharged. The treaty of peace

FEBRUARY, 1808.
was made while the estate remained unsold. The fifth Hxconzsozz
,.Ma
article of the treaty, after discovering much solicitude
on the part of Great Britain for the entire restoration of
confiscated estates, concludes with this clause : " And
it is agreed, tha all persons who have any interest in
confiscated lands, either by debts, marriage settlements,
or otherwise, shall meet with no lawfud impediment in
the prosecution of-their just rights."
This article applies to those cases where an actual
confiscation has taken place, and stipulates expressly.,
that in suci -cases the interest of all persons having a
lien upon such lands shall be preserved. Neither the
confiscation, nor any act in consequence of the confiscation, can constitute a legal impediment to the prosecution of their just rights. The preceding part of the
article had contemplated sales of the confiscated property, and consequently this clause must have been intended to -charge the lands, even in the hands of a purchaser. But respecting its application to this particular
case, the court cannot conceive a doubt. 'I he lands,
at the time of the treaty, remained unsold, and the government, claiming them as confiscated, stipulates
through the proper constituted authorities for their liability to this mortgage. If, then, the act of confiscation, independent of the treaty, would be construed to
destroy the claim of the mortgagee, the treaty, reinstates
the lien in its full force, and the subsequent sale of the
property could only pass it with the burden imposed
upon it.

2d. Is this remedy barred by the act of limitations ?
Upof an attentive consideration of that act, it appears
to be intended for suits at law, claiming the lands
themselves, not to suits in equity for the purpose of
subjecting the lands to the payment of debts for which
they are mortgaged. The words of the law would lead
to that opinion, 'and it is confirmed by the consideration that, in such cases, the possession of the mortgagor, or those claiming under him, is not adverse to,
but is compatible with, the rights of the morgagee.
Unless, therefore, this statute hap been otherwise con-

SUPREME COURT t. S.
HrocINsoN strued in Georgia, it would not be considered as hppliV.
cable to such a case as this. But this point must be
MEIN,.
decided in favour of the plaintiffs, because there
is a
saving in the act of the rights of persons beyond sea.
3d. Is p-yment in this case to be presumed ?
The length of time which elapsed between the day
when this bond and mortgage became payable, and that
on which the suit was instituted is certainly sufficient tQ
warrant a presumption of payment. But this presumption may be met by circumstances which account for the
delay in bringing this suit. In this case, the war, and
those events which succeeded the war, have not the
same. influence as in ordinary cases of British debts, because the debtor was within the reach of his creditor
from the date of his banishment in the year 1778, and
might have been sued. It does not sfficiently appear
in the proceedings where he was, nor what was his .situation, to enable the court to judge whether the long
delay in bringing this suit is or is not sufficiently accounted for. Neither is it shown satisfactorily that
Alexander Wylly "has left no personal representative
who might show payment of this debt. If there be i
personal representative of Alexander Wylly in, existence, such person ought to be a party to this, suit; if
there be no personal representative, -some evidence that
there is none ought to be adduced. In any event, un&
der all the circumstances of this case, enough does not
appear to enable the court to decide whether payment
ought to be presumed, or whether the delay in ins.tituting this.suit can be accounted for, and the court is
therefore of opinion that an issue ought to have been
directed bv the circuit court, for the purpose of asgertaining the fact of payment. The decree bf the circuit
court is therefore to be reversed, and the'cause remanded to that court, with instructions to direct an
issue to determine whether the bond in the bill menti6ned has been paid, and with liberty to the plaintiff to
amnd.his- bill, and make new parties, if he shall desire it.
LIVINGSTON, J. dissented from this opinion, but did.
not state his reasons.

