FEBRUARY, 1808.
Some objections have been made-to the validity of
these'executions' on the ground of their having issued
previous.to the day on which by law they ought to have
issued. On this point the court will give no opinion.
If iriegular, the court from which they issued ought to
have been moved to iet them aside ; hey were not void,
because the marshal could hate justified under them, and
if voidable, the proper mieans of destroying their efficacy have not been pursued.

B LAIi#Z
V.

Tpe Ship
CI'AU L S
CATn.ZR.

The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, and the
money ordered to be paid ovei to the execution creditors.

THE UNITED STATES v. GURNEY
AND OTHERS.

TanaU\,TzD
STATZ5
V.

Gen%,y AWD
OTIt~nS

THIS case was certified from the circuit court for the
district of Pennsylvania, the judges of that court being
divided in opinion upon the question, Whether, upon
the state of the pleadings, the judgment ought to be rendered for the plaintiffs .
It was an action brought by the United States agaitfst
Gurney and others, upon a bond conditioned to comply
with a certain written agreement between them and the
secre tary of the treasury of the United States, of the same
date," to pay the sum of 500,000 guilders at Amsterdam,"
"in the manner and form, and on or before the particular
days and times in the said agreement mentioned ; or in
case the said sums shall not be paid as aforesaid, at either
of the said places, then to repay tQ the United States the
value of ihe said 500,000 guilders, at the rate of exchange. current in Philadelphia at the time demand of
payme(nt is made, together with damages at 20 per cent,
in the same manner as if bills ofexchange had been dra.wn
for the said sum, and they had been ieturned protested

B, in Philadtlphi2,

a-

greed to pay
to A's agent
170,000 guil.

ders in Amsterdamonthe
1st of NL-ch ;
and if
le
should fail to
to (to, then to

repay to A
the value of
the said guildw
at the
rMte of- ixchange current in Philadelphia at the
time demand

of payment is
made, togetier with damages at 20

per cent, in
the same manl-

334
THE UNITED
STATES

SUPREME COURT U. S.

for non-payment; and lawful -interest for any delay of
payment

hich may take place after the demand."

GURNERY AND

oTas.

her as if bills
of exchange
had been

After oyerbf the bond and condition, the defendants
set forth the written agreement, by which, in considerstion of 205,000 dollars, to be immediately advanced to
them by the United States, the defendants agree- to pay

drawn for the to the bankers of
said sum,
and 500,000 guilders,
had been
they

teyhad
returned protestedfornonpayment, and
lawfulinterest

the United States at Amsterdam

in manner following, viz. 230,000

iders on or before the first of February; 170,000
u1 r
guilders on or before the first of March; and 100,000
guilders on or before the first of June,.1803 ; and in case
the said payments shall,not be made at the times and in

for any delay

of

payment the manner iforesaid, they will pay to the United States

may " 20 per cent damages for their non-compliance with
take place af- this agreement, for the wholeof the suin so agreed to be
which

ter- the demand. B phid paid, or such parts thercof as they shall not actually pay
the 17o,00o at the times, place and manner aforesaid, together with

gtilders in interest from the day of demand of repayment on behalf
Msterdam, of the United States," " in the same manner as for bills
to the agent
of A, on the of exchange returned with protest for non-payvmnt."
13th of May

instead ofthe

The defendants then pleaded, that on the ist of Feb-

1st of March.
A is not enti- ruary, 1803, they paid atAmsterdam'to Willink~and Van
tled to th 20 Staphorst, bankdrs of the United States, to and for the

percent dam- use of the United.States, the said 230,000 guilders; anti
ayg, i auit on the 13th of i7faq the gaid 170,000 guilders ; and
may,
in abond
suit o *the 16th of May the said 100,000 guilders, in the said
ipeon the
given to per- articles of agreement mentioned;, " and this'they are
form the con-

ready to verify," &c.

tract, recover
on
interest
the" 170,000

To this plea the United States replied, that although
guilders, from the defendants, on the Ist of February, 1803, paid to the
the 1st of said Ifillink and Van Stapho'csr; bankers of-the Unitqd
March to the
States, for the use of the United States, the said sum of
13th of May.
It ,s not a 230,000 guilders, in the saidarticles of agreemeht mengood plea for tioned;. and although the defendants, on the said 18th
defen- of May, at Amsterdam, paid. to the said Willink and
the,
dants to say
t6attheypaid Van Staphorst, bankers of the said United States, to and
the 170,000 for the use of the said United States, the sun of 170,000
'guilders
X'S a ge n t, to
r' gu~ilders; and although the defendants,
t d tefo at Amsterdat,
i li k
n
the use of A, on the said 16th of Mlay, paid.tothe said, XWillink" and
at Amster- Van Staphorst, bakvrs of'the.said United States, to and
dam, on the for the use ofthe said United States, thefurther sun of

FEBRUARY, 1808.
100,000 guilders, in the said articles of agreement mentioned; yet the said United States deny that the• said
last menioned sum of 170,000 guilders, so as aforesaid
paid by the defendants to the said Willink and Van Staphorst, bank-rs of the United States at Amsterdam, on
the said 13th of May, was, by the United States, accepted, reccived andallowed in -payment and satisfactionr
of the said sum of 170,000 guilders, which, by'the said
agreetment, the defendants were bound to pay on or before the 1st of March, 1803, and this the said United
States praymay be inquiredof by the c6untr,. And the
said United States in fact say that the defendants did
not pay, or cause to be paid, to the said Willink and
Van Staphorst, bankers of the United States at Am~terdam, to and for the use of the said United States, the
said sum of 170,000guilders, in the said articles of agreement mentioned, on or before the said 1st day of March,
1803, being the time prescribed by the said articles of
agreement for payment of the same.
Nor have the'defendants at any-time since the 1st of
M.-Tarch, 1803, paid to the United States 20 per cent damages
for their non-compliance with the said agreement for
the payment of the said sum of 170,000 guilders, part of
the said sum of 500,000 guilders in the said agreement
mentioned, to the said Willink and Van Staphorst,
bankers of the said United States at Amsterdam, to and
for the use of thesaid UnitedStates, on the 1st of Marchb,
1803, together with interest from the day of demand of
repayment on behalf of the United States, in the same
manner as for bills of exchange returned with protest for
non-payment," although afterwards, viz. on the 14th of
June, 1803, at Philadelphia, demandof reppynment of the
said sum of 170,000 guilders, together with the said 20
per cent damages, was made on behalf of the"said United
States, by -Albert Gallatin, secretary of the treasury of
the United States, from the defendants, but to pay the
aforesaidsum of 170,000 guilders, together with 20 per
cent damages, and interest on any part or parcel thereof,
to the said United States, the defendants have hitherto
refused, ud still refuse, contrary to the form and effect
of the said condition of the said writing obligatory, and
the agreement therein referred to, and in the plea set
Vol. IV.

U

it

Tuz U.';TZD
STAT=
Vo

Gu

.NE
.A.

OT ERS.

13th of May,
wtout
ring
it toatverbe
ti
%whole
sum then due.

336
THE UNITED

STATES

SUPREME COURT U. S.

forth, and this the said United States are ready!to verify,
wherefore they pray judgment, &c.

GURNEY AND

OTHERS.

To this replication the defendants demurred specially.
1st. For duplicity.
2d. Because they could not take issue on the replication without a departure from their plea; and,
3d. Because the United States have by their replication endeavoured to put in issue.matters foreign and irrelative to said nlea.
This demurrer'was joined on the part of the United
States.
E. Tilghman, for the defendants, and in suplort of
the demurrer.
The replication is clearly double; it first denies that
the 170,000 guilders, paid on the 13th of May, were receiv -d by the. United States in satisfaction of the 170,000
guilders due on the Ist of March, and ihen, after conclziding to the country, goes on with anew averment that
the defendants did not pay the 170,000 guilders on the
1st of March ;. and again further avers, that the defendants did not pay the United States the 20 per cent
damages for failing to comply with the agreement ; and
again, that the defendants did not repay .to the United
States the 170,000 guilders, with 20 per cent damages, &c.
A plaintiff cannot reply two sep.rate matters. 5 Bac.
447. Gwilim's edition.
The replication confesses the payment,
but does not
avoid it.
Even if the plea were bad in form , which is not admitted, yet aq payment is acknowledged bythe replicati6n,
at a time when no more"was due than waspaid, the Uni.
ted States cannot recover.

FEBRUARY, 1808.

337

Jf the defendant pleads a bad plea, and the plaintiff Tar UNITED
shows in his rejlicationthat he has no cause of action,
sTATES
th .judgment must be for the defendant.. 2 Ld. Rayim. Ga,:.zy uaOTHERS.
1080. Hob. 128. 8 Co. 126. (b.) 133. (b.)
If then we show that on thd 13th of May the United
States were not entitled under the contract to more than
170,000 guilders, they canot recover in this action.
The'object of the United States was to have the money paid in Amsterdam. The 20 per cent wa the stipulatedi damages for not paying ihe money in that place.
By referring to the law rEspecting bills of exchange, the
parties meant to be governed by that law; and by stipulating for interest in a certain event only, they are to
be understood'as not claiming it in any other case. By
the law of Pen__sylvania respecting foreign bills of exchange drawn in that state, and returned under protest,
the principal sum is to be re-paid in Pennsylvania,with 20
per cent advahte thereon. If the priacipal sum cannot
be claimed, the'advance thereon cannot be claimed. It
is an incident to the principal, and cannot be demanded
without the principal. If a bill be protested for nonpayment, but the acceptor afterwards pay it, and the
holder receives the money in the place where it ought
to be paid. he -cannot afterwards come upon the drawer
for damages, re-exchange, &c. By receiving the mo-ey he waives the objection to the tine of payment. The
20 per cent damages are the price of the risk, trouble
and expense of transportation of the money. If the defendants have actually transported the money, and the
plaintiffs have received it at the place appointed, theyare
not entitled to be repaid the expense of the transportation; and to charge the defendants wth that expense
now, would be to charge them twice.
The meaning of the agreement is, that if the United
States are obliged to receive their money in this country,
they shall receive the twenty per cent advance thereon ;
if, therefore, they have no right to demand re'payment
of the-money in .this country, they have no right to
the 20 per cent. After having received the principal
sum in Amsterdam, they clearly have no right to demand payment of it here. By the non-payment at the

SUPREMrE COURT tJ. S.
Tu UI-rTZD day, the United States had only
STATES
26 per cent. They might hv
V.

an inchoate right to the

refused to receive the

GufttEy AND 170,000 *guildersafterwards in Holland, and insisted on
OTiERS.

-

their ri'ghtto repayment of the money in America. But
they did not, and'actually receiyed the iioney'in Holland, before any*demand on the defendants in Ameiica.
The liquidated damages can be reiovered only in the
case specified by the parties in their contract ; and this
is upon demand of payment in America, of the value
of the sum remaining unpaid in Europe at the time of
the demand. The condition'of the bond is " to re-pay
to the United States the value of the said 500,000 guilders, at the rate of exchange current in Philadelphia at
the time demand of payment, is made, together with
damages at the rtite of' 20 per cent," &c. The dmages
could only be demanded, and were only to be paid,
" together-with" the principal. If the plaintiffs had no
right to demand payment of the.principal, they had no
right to demand payment of the damages. By the
terms of the cohtract, interest could only be demanded
from the time of demand of re-payment on behalf, of the
United States, the United States having a right to demand such re-paymen'
. Advance" and "Iint'erest ' are relative terms ; they
must refer to a principalsum. If there be no principal
sum due, there can be no advance nor interest thereon.
The liquidated damages were the damages for the
entire breach of the contiact on the part of the defendants, in failing to pay altogether in Amsterdam; not
for a mere delay of payment for a few days. According to the construction which the United States contend
for, they would be entitled to 20 per cent damages, even
if they had received the 170,000 guilders on the second
of March. Such a construction would make the contract .highly penal, and therefore "isto be avoided, if
possible. "Doug. 504.

In the case of Peter Blight, q bankrupt, his bills on
Europe were protested for non-payment : after protest
the holder received the Orincipal money, and sent the
bills back -to Pennsylva.nia, duly protested and, with'
Jogalnotice, in order to recover the'20 per cent damn-

FEBRUARY,

1808.

339

ges out of Blight's estate. But the commissioners re- TzKLUNITPO
S.ATr5
We consider
jected the claim, after full argument.
V.
this as a very respectable authority, as the commission- GuiiNC- ^:.D
ers were gentlemen of good legal and commercial informadon, and of sound judgment.
Rodney, Attorney General, contra.
The rule upon demurrers is to go bnck to the first
fault. If our replication is bad, their plea is bad also.
The defendants could only plead payment at or before
the day. This is not a bond within the statute of Anne,
the pkyment of which after the day may be pieaded. It
is a bond fo perform covenants.
But if payment after the, day might be pletided
tnder the statute, yet it must b6 pleaded as paymcnt of
the principal sum with all interest then due thereon. 2
BL. 1106. Perkins v. Kenton. 1 Atk. 251. Csp. N. P.
264. Pleader'?s Assistant,- 360.
The plea.does tot aver that Villink and Van Staphorat
were agents of the United States to receiv6 the money
after the day. the demurrer admits the truth of.the replication
which states that the United States *didnot receive the
170,000 guilders in satisfaction, &c.
At all events, the United States were entitled to interest on the 170,000 guilders from the 1st of March to
the 13th of May,.
The agreement does not require notice of non-pay-.
ment, and all the forms of protest, &c. A demand is only
required to entitle the. United States to interest on the
!20 per cent.
The plea is to be considered as three pleas, and therefore the United States were obliged to make three replications.
The statute of William allows a plaintiff to reply as
many breaches as he thinks proper. I Tidd's Pract.637.
Bu/. N. P. 163. 2 Str. 994.

OTurus.

340
HTEUNITED

SUPREME COURT U. S.

kawle, in reply.

STATES

GURNV

D
Th question is, whether on the whole record the
,HERs. United States are entitled to recover.

The contract
is, that the parties should stand in the
Irelation
of drawers
and payees of a bill of exchange.
The contract was made it Philadelphia, and must be
governed by the laws of Pennsylvania ; and under those
laws the 20 per cent.canfiot be'recovered until the bill
be returned. If the defeiidants had drawn a bill pay,
able on the 1st of March, and it had then been protested, but afterwards, on the 13th of May, taken up by
the accepior, it could - never have been returned by the
payees ; and consequently, the 20 per cent damages
could not have been recovered.
It was not necessary for the defendants to aver in
their plea that Willink and Van Staphorst'had authority
to receive the money; it is averred by the plen, and
adnqitted by the replication, that the money was paid by
the .defendants to Willink and Van Staphorst, bankeils of
the UnitedStates, to and for the use of the United States.
It is therefore admitted to be a payment to the United
States as much as if it had been so expressed.
.Ifno interest was due on the 13th of May, it "was
not necessary in the plea to aver payment of interest.

The bond is virtually for payment of g sum less than
the- penalty'; and therefore within the statute which
authorises aplea of payment after the day.
It was not necessary to plead that it was received in
satisfaction. That is afact for the consideration of the
jury 9n the plea of payment. The demurrer does not
admit the fact that it was not received in s,.tisfaction,
,for'the demurrer admits nothing but what'is well pleaded ; and to a plea of payment it is a bad replication to
say that the money wag not, received in -satisfaction.
Pleader's Assistant, 360. Burt. 945. .Ytr. 691.

FEBRUARY, 1808.

.Afarc 8.
MARSHALL, Ch.
as follows, viz..

J. delivered the opinion of the court

This case comes on upon a special demurrer to a replication filed by the plaintiffs to a plea of payment after
the day. The replication is doubte, and consequently
ill. But it is a known rule that a demurrer brings all
the pleadings before the court; in consequence of which,
judgment must be rendered against him who has committed the first fault; or, which will most generally produce the same result, for him who upon the whole record
shall appear to be entitled to their judgment. It therefore becomes necessary to examine the plea of the defendants. By their agreement with the secretary of the
treasury, they were bound to pay to the bankers of the
United States in Amsterdam the ium
of 500,000 guilders in the following manner, viz. 230,000 guilders on
or before the first day of rebruary, 170,000 guilders on
or before the first day of March, and the remaining
100,000 guilders on or before the first .day of June, in
the year 1803. The first payment was made oni the
day, and the last before the day, but the second payment
was made on the thirteenth day of May, instead of the
first day of March. On the effect of this payment, the
whole case depends.
The defendants plead that they did, on the 13th day
of May, at Amsterdam, pay to the bankers of the United States, for the use of the United States, the sum
of 170,000 guilders. The replication admits this payment as pleaded, but denies that it was accepted, received and allowed by the United States in payment
and satisfaction of the same sum which was payable on
the first of March. The replication proceeds to aver
that the said sum of 170,000 guilders was not paid on
the first day of March, nor had the defendants paid the
damages of 20 per cent which were stipulated, in case
of failure to pay on the day.
The fact upon these pleadings appears to be, that the
payment was received by the United States without any

STA- s
%-.

oT11nUs.

242
'HU1kTrD
STATFS

v..

Gv-,RE

AND
OTHERS,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

stipulation respecting the effect of that receipt, upon
their agreement with the defendants. If payment to
the bankers of the United States, the persons to whom

by agreement the money was to be paid, was not payment to the United States, it would not be a payment
to the use of the United States, which the plea avers,
and the replication in terms admits. In such case thc
replication, instead of averring that thiV sum was not
accepted in satisfaction of the same sum payable at an
earlier-day, would have averred, and ought to have
averred, that it was not accepted at all,. and was not a,
payment to' the use of the'United States, inwhich case,
instead of a special'replication, issue might have been
tenderied on the plea. The court, then, understands
the fact as stated in the pleadings to be, that the
money was'received without any agreement whatever,
and the law must determine the effect of such a payment.
The payment made to tli& bankers in Amsterdam
being then an actual payment to the United States, the
inquiry is, whether it was such a payment, and is so
pleaded, -as to bar this action.
It is admitted that the sti'tute of Anne, which allows
payment after the day to he pleaded, is in force ihPennsylvani., but it is cbntended that Ithis bond is not within that statute ; or, if it is, that this plea is-not good
under it.
-If this be' a bond within the statute of Anne, on which
the tourt give's no opinion, yet by that statute, the payment must be of the whole sum actually due,, or the
action for the penalty is not barred.
In this case the sum due on the first of March was
paid on the 13th of May, without interest or ddmages.
. By the United Stgies it is conlended, that daniages
at the rate of 20 per -centum on the sum of 170,000
guilders Were then due ; by the defendants it is contende.d( that no inferest was due.

FEBRUARY,- 180.

The words of the contract to which each party refers, TB,;zUzTzD
are not precisely the same in the condition of the bond StT1s
and in the articles-of agreement which are referred to Guiv
.,-Z
by the bond. There is no contradiction between them;
oTaBUZ.
but there is a variance in this, that the condition of the
bond expresses more fully than the articles the idea of
the parties, that in case of failure to perform the contract
at Amsterdam" the demand for p'avmdnt was to be made
in Philadelphia. The words of the condition are, "or
in case'the said sums shall not be paid is aforesaid, then
to repay to the United States the value of. the said
500,000 guilders, at the rate of exchange current in
Philadelphia at the time demand of payment is made,
together with damages at the rate of 20 per cent, in the
same manner as if bills of exchange had been drawn for
the said sum, and they had been returned protested f6r
non-payment, and lawful interest for any delay of payment that may take place after the demand."
The defendants were merchants residing and carrying on trade in-Philadelphia, in which place the contract
was made, and by the law of the state, bills of exchange
returned unpaid under protest are liable to 20 per cent
damages. ' Itis sufficiently obvious, from these circumstances, and from ihe words of the condition, that the
parties contemplated a repayment in Philadelphia in the
event of non-payment in Amsterdam.
it iz contended by the plaintiffs that, the instant the
failure to pay the 170,000 guilders on the first of March
had taken place, a full and complete right to the sxipuiated damages .was vested in the United States, witho.utany further act oA their part ; and thata payment of the
principal sum on the succeeding day lvquld not have r lieved the defendants from.those damages.

In this opinion the court does not concur with the
counsel for the United States.
Cdntracts are always to be construed with a view to
the real intention of the parties. In this contract, the
object of the.United States was to remit to their bankers
in Amsterdam a sum of money, for which they had
I Wrl. IV.
X X

SUPREME COURT, U. S.
TaxzUtTEv occasion in Europe, The heavy damages to be incurred
SwrTzS
by the defendatits in the event bf their failing to make
GuNm, AND the stipulated payments in Amsterdam, were considered
omcnXRS.
v

as a compensation for the disappointments produced by
the non-payment of the money at that place in such ime
as to answer the purposes of the contract. -Whether
payment at the same place on a subsequent day would
answer these purposes, was for the United States to
determine. They might accept it, or they might reject it, and claim whatever the -law of their contract
would give them.- In the event of non-payment in
Amsterdam at the time stipulated, the defendants are to
repay-to the United States the value of the guilders
they shall have failed to pay in Anisierdam, "at the rate
of exchange current in Philadelphia at the time demand
of payment is made; together with damages at the rate
of 20 per cent." The thir interpretation of this agreement is, that the demand is to be made in Philadelphia,
that the money is to be repaid in-Philadelphia, and that
,the damages are upon the money there to be repaid.
Had a~part of the sum of 170,000 guilders been paid on
the first of March, it will scarcely be contended chat
damages would have accrued on that part. A repaymentof it could not have been demandable in Philadelphia. It appears to the court that the acceptance of any
part of the sum due in Amsterdam on a subsequent
day, is a waiver of the claim to damages in Philadelphia on the sum so arrp r.'-r , for that sum cannot be
demanded in Philadelphia.
This reasoning, to winch the majority of the court
would strongly incline, from the nature and circum-.
stances of the contract, derives much additlonal force
from the reference to bills of exchange. The, repayment of the value of the guilders " at the rate of exchange current in Philadelphia at the time demand of
payment is made, together with damages at the rate of
20 per cent," is to be .made " in the same manner as if
bills of exchange had been drawn for the said-sum, and
they had been returned protested for non-payment. '
Why is this reference made to bills of exchange ?

FEBRUARY, 1808.

The stipulation that damages at the rate of 20 -per T11zU.TTZV
STATZ
centur should be incurred on those sums which the
, A' W
defendants might fail to pay at the time and place mentioned in their contract, did not require it, unless the oTuns.
law of bills of exchange was eithei to explain or to give
validity to that stipulation. To a majority of the court
it is satisfactory evidence that the parties intended this
contract; if not as a complete substitute for bills of exchange, to operate between themselves as if bills had
been drawn. The law of Pennsylvania regulating bills
of exchange was -well understood. If those drawn on
any part of Europe are returned back unpaid With a
legal protest, the drawers and indorsers are subjected to
damageskt. the rate of 20 per centum. But the right
to these damages is not complete until the bill be returned back under protest. Till then they are not. demandable. Consequently, payment befoie the hill returns
does away the right to demand them. By receiving
payment, the holder waives his right to damages. The
express reference to bills which is made in this contract,
and 'the terms in which that reference is made, being
considered by the majority of the court as explanatory
of the intention, of the parties that the right to damages
should-be put on the saume footing as if billshad been:
drawn, form an additional reason for their opinion that
aft acceptance in Amsterdam after the ay, before a
demand in. Philadelphia, amounts to a waiver of any
right the United States might otherwise, perhaps, have
had to demand the stipulated damages.
But whether.the sum agreed to be paid as a compensation for a failure to pay at the titne and .place.mentioned in the contract, be considered merely as a penalty, or as stipulated damages, of which the law swill
coerce the payment, a *forfeituretook place on the nonperformance of the condition of the bond, and a right
to something more tfian that condition vested immediately in the obligees. If the reservation of damages
in the condition of the bond is in law only a double
penalty, then interest is the legal compensation for this
breach of the covenant contained in the condition of the
bond. If it be even of the character given to it by
'"both parties in argument, the amount ot damages settied by he parties themselves, the majority of the court

340

SUPREME COURT U. S.

TuEUXITED' is not satisfied, that in waiving those damages the obSAESV.
ligee has, without any agreement on the subject, relinGURNEY AND
OTHrus.

'displaced

quished that right to interest which is attached to all
contracts for the payment of money, which is only
by the agreement to receive a larger sum in
damages, and which a mere tacit implied waiver of
those stipulated damages might reifistate. The majority'of the cou , therefore, is of opinion, that under
th6 circumstances which have taken place, the United
Stites ought to receive, under this contract, interest on
the" sijm of 170,000 guilders, from the first of March,
the day on, which that sum ought to have been paid,
until the thirteenth of May, the day on which it was
.actually paid. Judgment, therefore, on the pleadings,
must be rendered for the plaintiffs.
By the 26th section Qf the judicial act, it is directed,
that in cases of this description the court shall render
"judgment for so much as is due according to equity.
And when the sum for which judgment should be rendered is uncertnin, the same shall, if either of the parties request it, be assessed by a jury."
In this case it is the opinion of the majority of the
court, thatjudgmqnt ought to be rendered for so much
as remains due of ihe sum of 170,000 guilders, calculating interest thereon from the first of March in the
year 1803, and if either of theparties request it, that a
jury be impanelled to qscertain the value of this sum in
the money of the United States.

