-20f2
FrTzsxsMONS
NEWPORT

Is.

Co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

thai availing himself of some equivocal,'unguarded,

" and perhaps indiscreet answers on the part"of the cap-

tain; the vessel was sent in for adjudication ; and on
those expressions was condemned.
This court is of opinion that these fcts do not amount
t&an attempt again to enter the port of Cadiz, and
therefore do not amount, under the tkeaty between the
United States and. Great Britain, to a breach of the
blockade of Cadiz. The sentence of the court of viceadmiralty in Gibraltar, therefore, is not cbnsidered as
falsifying the warranty that the brig John was Ameiican property, or as disabling the assuied from recovering against the underwriters in thfg action, and
the testimony in the case shows that the blockade was
not broken.
The judgment of the circuit court is to be reversed,
with costs, and it is to be certified to that court, that
judgment is to be entered on the special'verdict for the,
plaintiff.
Jtddgrnent'reversed,

MAJSHIIALL
MA.AR
DJ.LAWARE

DELAWA RE INSUv.THECOMPANVt.
AIARSHALL
RANCE

INs. Co.

The

right

ERROR to the cirduit court for the distrkt of Penn-

a policy ofinof the insured sylvania, in an action for a total loss, 6di
to ,abadon surance oh the Brig Rolla, her cargo and freight.
and recover
foratotalloss, - The material facts stated, were, thai tlhe Brig-Rolla,
depend~s upon
the Slate or"a neutral vessel, while prosecuting the voyage insured,.
th-factat tle was capiured

by itbelligerent cruiser,, and libelled as

time of the prize-f war. On the 9th 6fJui', 1806, a final sentence

don, tld n'-in favour of the vessel and c~argo was passed, and on the
upon the slate 19th of the same month, about .1fo'clock P. M. restiOn the 17th o July the assured in
of the ,#for- tution was made.
lzatimt
received.

FEBRUARY, 1808.
New-Ybrk received information of the capture, and im-

M'&nstA.LL

mediately gave orders to his agent in Philadelphia to
abandon to the underwriters. In pursuance of these orders the offer to abandon was made on the morning of
the 19th.

D

"
S. Co.
The tech-

loso
total
nical
ars.ng
-from
The judgmefit of the court below was for the defend- cptrecases .Ith a
ants.
deatc of
final
restituttion

Hopkinson, for plaintiff.

although that
decree may

The question in this case is whether the plaintiff is not have been
entitled to recover for a total, o~r only for a partialloss. executed at

the time of
the ofier io
The proceeds of the cargo have been received by the abandon.
plaintiff, who sold. the same for account of the under.writers if they will receive them.
If the abandonment was imade before the restoration
in fact of the cargo to the captain on the 19th of July, the
plaintiff has aright to recover for a total loss, according
to the decision in Rhinelander'scase, at last term, (mte,

p. 41.
-The plaintiff having shown a total loss, by the capture,
it is incumbent on the defendants'to showr that the property was restored before the abandonment. On the 17th
the plaintiff received information of the capture; on the
18th he wrote and put into the post-office at New-York,
the letter to his agent in Philadelphia, directing the
abandonment to be made; on the 19th it was received
The
uu: Philadelphia, and the abandonment offered.
abandonment must relate to the -18th, when the plaintiff
wrote his' letter and made his election to abandon. Abandonment is an exparte act, and if the plaintiff has a right
to abandon at the time when he elects and offers to abandon, the defendanits are liable from that time. No consent isne.cessary on the part of the defendants. The
plaintiff Was bound from the date of his letter; and the
defendants must be equally bound.
But althbugh the property may have been in fact restored before the abandonment, if that restoration was
unkfiown to the plaintiff, it is yet an undecided question,
whether the abandonment is not valid.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MARSHA'LL
D

1

V.

ZLAWAnE

INs. Co.

The opihiofi of Lord Mansfield in Hamilton v. Xendes,
unlike the opinions of that great man,'is confused and
contradictory, sometimes making the question of right
to abandon depend upon the state of the inform ,n,
and sometimes on the fact itself.
It is not reasonable that the insured should be
bound to abandon uponi receipt of the first intelligence,
and yet the underwriter be permitted to take advantage
of subsequent everits. There woulo be no mutuality in
this principle. It would be rdinous to merchants thus
to be kept out of their money. Besides, the contract is
for "ndemnity, and there can be no fairer mode of ascertaiiing the inifmnity than to give the unddrwriters the
thing itself, subject to the chance of recovery, and let
them pay the price. Ifthe thing is restored and goes to
a good market, the underwriters derive the beuefit ; if a
loss happens, it is what they are bound by their contract
to sustain. But as to the state of the-fact itself, we contend that there was no actual restoration of the property
before the offer to abafidon. If there was, it is for them
to show it. The on.t-irobandi is on them.
If it is necessary to the justice of the casc, the court
will divide the day, and ascertain which event did first
Mitt.
a'ctually happen. 3 Burrozo, 1434. Gombe v.
Dallas and Rawle, contra, contended,
That the 'peril being at an end,. at the time of the offer
to abandon, the plaintiff cannot recover for a total loss,
unless the consequences of the capture created a total
loss either in fact.or in la-.
The peril by capture was at an end on the 9th of July,
when the -final dlecree. of restitution, was pronounced in
the court of dernier resort.
The right to restitution was consummate, and the authotity to restore absolute. What remained was mere
matter 6f form. The vessel and cargo were in the hands
of the publicofficer, who held the same, after the decree,
in trust for the owner. There was no longer any hostile.
or adverse possession. The property was in no danger of condemnation, or even of further detention.

FEBRUARY, 1808.

£05

The state of thefact, and not of the information, is
the test of the right to abandon. If intelligence were
the test, any idle vague rumour might compel the underwriters to pay a total loss when the property was in fact
in perfect safet the whole time.
The contract is that the property shall not perish Ly
the peril, xiot that it shall not encounter the peril. A
storm may injure it, but if the injury does not exceed
half the value, and the voyage be not broken up, it is
not a total loss. The. underwriters are only bound to
pay the partial loss. It is a contract of indemnity only; the
liability of the defendants therefoire must depend on the
state of the fact, and not of the intelligence. Park, 77.
Esp.
155. 160. 144, 145, 146. 148. 152. 156; 167.
Ca. N. P. 237. MI'lasters v. .Shoolbred. Rhinelander
In. Co. Pennsylvania, (ante, p. 41.) Dutilgh v. Gatlif/
cited in Rhinelander'scase. 1 N. 2. Cases in Error,21,
22. 1 Yohnson, 205.
'.

It is not contended that the consequences ot we capture created a total loss, either in fact or in law. The
expenses, pillage, and damage did not amount to more
than one-fourth of the insured value, and these the underwriters are willing to pay. The vessel arrived at her
destined port. She performed the vcdage insured.
Ingersoll, in reply.
It is said that the restitution is to be considered as referring back to the time of the decree ; but that point was
otherwise decided in the case of Dutilglh y. Gatlifl in
the supreme court of Pennsylvania. It. was there decided that although at the time of the offer to abandon,
there was a decree of restitution, yet as that decree was
not known to the party who offered to abandon, and as
in fact the property was then in possession of the captors,
the insured had a right to recover for a total loss.
2February23.
IARSHAL., Ch. J. after stating the facts of the case
as above, delivered the opinion "tfthe court as*follows.

MAnsuALL

v.
i:. Co.

206
MsHALL
1'.

D

Aw.A
.

1,,. co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The question -ubmitted to the consideration of the
court is this: , Is the assured entitled to recover for a
partial or for a total loss.
In support of the claim for a total loss, two points
have been made:
Ist. That the state of informittion at the time of th
abandonment, not the state of the fact, must decide the
right of the assured to abandon.
•If this be otherwise, then,, it is contended,
2d. Tht the right to abandon is coextensive with the
detention, which continued until restitution was made
.in fact, and that restitution in fact, though made on
the same day, was posteribr in point of time to the
abandonment.
1. Does .the right to abandon depend on the fact, or
un the information of the parties ?
The right to abandon is founded on an actual or legal
total loss. It appears to the court to consist, with, the
nature of the contract, which is truly stated to be a
contract of indemnity, that the real state of loss at the
time the abandonment is made, is the proper and safe
criterion of the rights of the parties. Might they depend absolutely on the state of information, a seizure
"which'scarcely interrupted the voyage 'might be, and
frequently would be con~erted into a total loss, and the
contests respecting the real state of information might
be endless. Intelligence of capture and of restitution
might be.received at the same time, and the insured
might suppress the one ind act upon the other.
This point came under the consideration of the court
in the case of Rhinelanderv. The Insurance Conpany of
Pennsylvania, in which case it was said, that "where
a belligerent has taken full possession of a vessel as
prize, .and continues that possession to th time of the
abandonment, there exists, in poirnL of law, a total
loss." The court, in delivering this opinion, under-.
stood itself to require, that the continuance of the pos-

FEBRUARY, 18o8.

207

session up to-the time of the abandonment, or a technical'total loss incurred, notwithstanding the restoration, was necessary to justify a recovery asz'for a total
loss.
In considering the second point, the court proceeded
to inquire whether the technical total loss on which the
right to abandon depended, was terminated by the decree of restitution, or continued until that decree was
carried into execution, and restitution was made in
fact.
The real object of the policy is not to effect a change
in property, but to indemnify the insured. Whenever,
therefore, only a partial loss is sustained by one of the
perils insured against, the original owner of the property retains it, prosecutes his voyage, and recovers for
his partial loss.
But the voyage may be really broken up, without the
destruction of the vessel and cargo. A detention by a
foreig prince, either by embargo or capture, may be
of such long duration as to defeat the voyage. This is
a peril insured against, and of its continuance no certain estimate can be made. In the case of capture it
is, for the time, a total loss, and no person can confidently say that the loss will. not finally be total. So of
an embargo. Its duration cannot be measured, and it
may destroy the object of the voyage. These detentions, therefore, are, for the time, total losses, and
they furnish reasonable ground for the apprehension
that their continuance may be of such duration us to
break up the voyage, or ruin the assured, by keeping
his property out of his possession. Such a case, therefore, upon the true pfinciples of the contract, has been
considered as justifying an abandonment, and a recovery for a total loss.
But when a final decree of restitution, from which it
is admitted that no appeal lies, has been awarded, the
peril is over. On no reasonable calculation can it be
supposed that such a delay of restitution willensue, as
from that time to break up the voyage. Tber*e is no
reason to presume a subsequent detention on the part of
Vol. IV

D d

MAnSHALL

V.
DELAWARE
1:,s. Co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MARSUALL
V.

De

LAWARE

I-V6 Co.
\may

the
foreignThe
prince.
is captured
no motive
for may
such perdetention.
masterThere
of the.
vessel
haps not b'e ready to receive possession, and the delay
proceed from him. At any rate, without some
evidence that the peril was not actually determined, the
court cannot consider it as continuing after the sentence
was peonounced. A technical total loss originates in
the danger of a real total loss. "The court cannot suppose buch a danger to have existed after a fir.il sentence
of acquittal, unless some order of court relative to a.
reconsideration could be shown, or it should appear'
that some otheir delays were interposed by the court
which had pronounced the sentence, or by the sovereign
of the captor.
Had the facts on which this question depends bben"
known, at New-York anti Philadelphia as they occurred,
could it have been said that there existed a technical
total loss ? , After a decree of restitution, could it .be
said. that while means were taking to carry that decree
into execution, while the mandate for restitution was
passirg from the court to the vessel, the assured had a
right to elect to consider his vessel as lost, and to aban.
don to the underwriters ? To this court, it seemd tlAat
the right to make such an election at sut.h a time, would
be inconsistent with the spirit of'the contract, and that
the technical total loss was terminated by the djcree of
restitution; unless something subsequent to that decree
could be shown to prove the continuance of the danger,
or of an adversary detention.
Nothing in this opinion is intended to extend to the
case where a cargo may be lost, without the loss of the
vessel.
There is-no error in the judgment of the circuit court
of Pennsylvania, and it is to be affirmed with costs.
Judgment affirmed.

