FEBRUARY, 1807.
stances to the insured to de.mand its return from the Smuvu,-,6

underwriters, could Dot affect the claim of the plaintiffs

oTuZUS

on the defendants, for money fairly advanced by them CA O.
isn
kou
for the use of the defendants.
OTUllnrI.

If the latter construction be adopted, there was till
a misdirection on the part of the court. The-judge
oughtnot to have left it expressly to the jury %odecide7
whether notice given immediately after the change of
the Hestinatioh of the vessel could be due and seasonable
notice, unless it was received before the premium was
advanced;
It is, however, not material to the present cause to
determine whether this exception does or'does not exhibit a misdirection to the jury, since we are uinanimously of opinion, that .foradmitting a paper purporting to be, the copy of a letter from Edwrd Carrington
to Smith & Ridgeway, to go to the jury, which wap not
proved to be a copy, the judgment must be reversed.

Judgment reverstd,

PENDLETON AND WEBB v. WAMBERSIE
ET AL.

-

~WAM

PzNr.ZTu
Amni %VZ82
V.

azna~.

AND OTUXEJ.

ERROR to the'circuit court for the. district of
Georgia, in a suit in equity, in which Pendleton and W~ebb
were complainants against Emdnuelfambersie, 7ames
!Seagrove, and the represehtativeof Yames Armstrong,

of an ssignee
art.
of
ne in cajoint
purehase and

Yacob Weed, and Henrg.Osborne, were defendants.

sale of lands,

The bill stated that Henry Osborne, Jacob Weed,
James Armstrong, James Seagrove, and the complainant John Webb, on the 22d of December, 1786, entered into an agreement with each other, under seal, -to
procure lands on their joint account in the state of
Georgia, to an amount not exceeding 200,000 acres, at

billn equity
against
the

An asiiiunee

may sustain a
other copartners and the
cnet
to
concern,Of tho
campel a dis.
co'ery of the

74,

SUPREIE COURt U. S.

for their joint benefit. That
grants were obtained for about 165,000 acres. That
Webb by deed transfcrred all his right to the lands and
WANDS2,
AN o Litss contract to John M'Queen, in consideration of 4001.
Ssterling, to be paid in four equal annual instalments.
quantitY Pur- That M'Queen, not having paid Webb, assigned his
and right to Pendleton, 'th'e complainant, who undertook to
chased
sold, and for
PFZS

roV their joint expense, and

.J62) W,,
V.

account indemnify M'Queefi against Webb's demand. That
Webb has never received the motiey due from M'Queen.
That Wambersie, as agent for the company, had sold
60,000 acres of the land in Holland, at one dollar and
poceeds.
an

and distribut ion of the

fifty-six cents per acre, had received in cash 51,000
dollars, and had made himself liable for the balance.
That he has refused to pay to the complainant, Pendle-on, the one-fifth of the purchase money. That the other
defendants refuse to divide the residue of the lands, and
to account for the profits, &c. That the lands art! liable,
in the hands of the purchasers, for the balance of the
purchase money, bothi to the complainant Webb, for the
purchase money due to him, and to the complainant Pendleton for his one-fifth of the amount of the sales. The
bill seeks a discovery of the amount of lands granted to
the company, of the amount sold, &8c.and prays that the
defendants may account, and that the lands may be charged with the balance of the purchase money, 8ic.
Th6 defendants demurred for want of equity in the
bill, and the court below sustained the demurrer, and decreed that the bill be dismissed, with costs.
But this court, without argument, overruled the demurrer, reversed the decree, and remanded the cause
for further proceedings,

