02

SUPREME COURT U. 5'

right to redeliver them in his. name after the interlinea-

ONPALE
V.

tion.

LoNG.

If the defendant had given up any counter sectirity,
it was his own folly so to do until his name had been
erased from the bonds.
February 14.
MARSHIALL,

Ch. .J. delivered the opinion of the

coprt, that there was error in this, that the court below
did not instruct the jury as prayed 'by the defendant.
He observed, that the judges did not all agree upon the
same" grounds, some being of opinion that the bonds
were void, by reason of the interlineation, and others
that they were vacated by the rejection of them by the
magistrate, -and could not be set up again without a new
.delivery.

judgment reversed, vith costs.

v. CARRINGTON
.V.AND SMITH AND OTHERS
OTHERS.

OTHRS

CARRINOTON AND
OTHERS.

A xitess-

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of

inter-sted to Rhode-Island.
diminish cer-"

tain admitted
This was an action of assumpsit brought by he plainitems in the
plaintiff's ac. tip in error, subjects of Haniburgh, to recover the
count, is still balance due upon an account current, the debit side of
a competent which consisted principally of the following charges,
witness- to.

diiproveother Viz, insurance made in Hamburgh on the defendants'
ship Abi'ail, 'frpi"the United States to Hamburgh, and
items.
The defen- on the-ship ahd cargo from -iamburgh to the Havanhf,
'dan having
rea- a letter an4An an intended voyage #ack from the Havanna to
from the
Hamburgh; advances made to the defendants to make
plaintifl"s a, up a'cargo to the Havanna; bills of exchange accepted
gent,' in an- a pd
cash advanced, and commissions, chargesr
;i.
aet- and
ter aom
ter from him.i and interest.

FEBRUARY, 187.

63

The credit side consisted chiefly of the probeeds of
the freight of the ship, and of sundry articles of merchandize ; remittances by bills of- exchange ; the sales
of the ship, (she having been ondemned and sold in
London by virtue of a bottomry bond given by the defendants to the plaintiffs,) and of five per cent of the premium of insurance on theintendedr turn voyagefrom the
Havanna to Hamburgh, the same hving been returned
by the underwriters to the.plaintiffs, in*consequence of
the ship having finished her voyage in the United StatesI
instead of returning to Hamburgh.

SMz,,r AU
oTIV. s

CAnuXzrM-rbiz &n
.oTMRs.

give in eviacce a 'copy
of hL Or n.
letter with
out proving it
tb be a true
copy by a

At the trial below the plaintiffs took a bill of excep- withez
tion may
tions, which stated,

taken to the

1st. That the defendants offered as a witness one opinion ofthe
nhis
Peleg Remington, who had become jointly and seve- chdgejugto
the
rally bound with the defendant, Carrington, in a bot- jury.
tornry or respondentia bond to the plaintiffs, in the sum The court
of 31,950 dollars, -conditioned to pay to the plaintiffsis. bound to
that sum, on the return of the ship to Hamburgh, the nion to
same being.the.aniount advanced by the plaintiffs to the jury on a
defendants. in Hambfirgh; "and that the ship should so question of
this ISv, upon
with
31
return fordficlbr,'dvance,
1quent, other demands,
if itreh&
action was, i-ght, To the admission of which wit- pertinent to
ness the plaintiffi objected;-contending that he was in- the issue; but
interested to diminish the balance due from the defendants not
volveifa itques.
to the plaintiffs. But the defendants insisted he was a tion offqe.
competent witness as to all the items of the account,
except the advances for which he was bound, particularly with respect to a charge of 13,718 dollars and 56
cents, for premium of insurance on the intended return voyage from the Havanna to Hamburgh, and which
voyage the defendants contended was never begun, and
therefore they ought not to be charged with that premium ; and especially as -the defendants had expressly
waived all objections to every other part of the plaintiffs'
account. Whereupon the said witness was suffered by
the court to testify as to the charge of that premium
only. The bill of exceptions states it as admitted, that
by-the law of Harnburgh, the underwriters are not
bound to return the premium upon a change of the
voyage, unless that change be notified before the vessel
sails.
Ye!. IV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SXTWU Amp
2d. That the defendants offered in evidence a paper,
oTgs
purporting to be a copy of a letter from the defendant,
V,
.CARo,

roN AND

Carrington, to Smith .. Ridgeway ot Philadelphia, the
correspondents of the plaintiffs ; and a Itter from Smith
& Ridgeway to Carrington, purporting to be an answer
thereunto; but gave no proof that the saidcopy of Car.
rington's letter was a true copy of the original, but it
was not denied to be in his -hand-writing, and it was
proved that he was in Canton, and not in the United
States at the time of trial, and had been in Canton for
two years before, but had been corresponded with on
the iubject of this action since its comhiencement.
Whereupon the court permitted the copy and the letter
to go in evidence to the jury.
3d. The plaintiffs, after stating in the bill of excep.
tions, and referring to all the testimony and other evidence hi the case, but not tating distinctly the material
facts which they supposed to be tharesult of that testi.
many and ,evidence, and on which their prayer was
founded, prayed the court to declare their opinion to
the j iry whether, if the plaintiffs hadacttially paid the
premium to the underwriters, .eforU notice of tho
change of the destination of' the khil41.ey'had a right,
" under the circumstances of the cakbdctrecover the
same of ihe defendants. But the'doufrefused to deliver an opinion particularly thereon.
4th.'.The bill of exceptions further stated, that the
court, prior to the request last mentioned, declared to
the jury that " the case wholly turned upon the point
whether or not the defendants had given due and seasonable notice of the change of the destination of said
ship. That it was a question proper for the jury to
decide, whethe,' such due and seasonable notice had
been given, and that if they were of opinion that it had
been so given, on considering the whole of the evidence, thev ought not to allow the plaintiff's said charge
for the said premium; -and with that direction left the
sameto the jury ; -and the jury aforesaid then and there
gave their verdict for the plaintiffs for the sum of 13,67
ddlars and eight ceilts only, .and disallowed the said
"charge and demand of the plaintiffs for the said per-

M?.3RuARY; ism

61

raluia of insura-ce, eicept one. hbfpercent which the
jy'allowec."

AIM

GUT
0oTV.

The errps assigned by the plaintiffs in error were,
1st, Thai the court admitted Remington to testify to
the point, and under the circumstances mentioned in
the bi.l of exceptions.2d. Thatthe court admitted the writing pwrportingto
be a copy Of a kiter from the defendant, Carrtnglonp
to-Smltk & Ridgeway, and a .writingpurporting to be a
letter from Smith & Ridgeway to the Said Carrington,
to be read in evidence, 'as stated in the bill of exceptions.

3d. That the court directed the jury that the caso
turned wholly upon the point whether due and seasonable notice'had been given by the defendants of thd
change of the voyage, as stated in the bill of exceptions ; and that this was wholly a qiestion of 'fact,which
it was their exclusive province to determine.
"4th. That the court refused to direct the jury, in cbes
it wis fully proved to their satisfaction, that the plaintiffs had paid the premium in question previdus to' any
notic.e or- information, whatever of Ihe change of the
voyage, as stated -in the bill of exceptions, that they
Were. entitled to recover of the defenidants.
Robbins, for the plaintiffs in error, contended,
Ist. That the underwriters, under the. law of Hamburgb, had a ritht to retain the premium, and
2d. That whether they had or ho, the plaintiffis
having received the defendants' orders to insue, and
having actually done -it, and paid the premium before
those orders were countermanded, had a right to recover it back from ie defendants.
1. That the underwriters had a right to retain the
premiuni een under ihe English law, -because the risk
had cdmmenced.- It-was to begin from the shore. But

TOZARID

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SMITH uND
OTHERS

CARRiNGTON
D
OTHERS.

th! Hamburgh" law being admitted, and no evidence
being given that the change of voyage was notified to
the undenriters before the ship sailed, the question is
too plain to require arument.
2. But whether the underwriters were .liable to refund or not,- the jlaintiffs hav e a right to recover from
the defendants, what they paid for premium under the
existing orders of the-defendants.
If the underwriters are liable to refund, the plaintiffi
are not bound to resort to them. That is the duty of
the defendants.
The money being paid by the plaintiffs, before the
orders for insurance were counteimanded, there can be
tio pretence that, the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover.
3. Remington was not a competent witness, because
in a suit against him upon the bond, he might ihow thai
the whole amount for which he was liablo, had been
paid; which he could not do if the plaintiffs had a right
to apply the credit side of theaccount to discharge the
money by them advanced for the premium. He was,
thereforc directly interested in-the event of t6,' suit.
4. There was no proof that the paper offered as a
copy of the defendant Carrington's letter to Smith &
2?idge'way was a copy of. the original, and therefore it
ought-not to have been received, nor was there any
evidence offered of the hand-writing of Smith & Ridgeway to the paper purporting to be a letter from them,
5. The opinion of the court that reasonable notict
was wholly a question of fact, was erroneous. We
contend, that in all mercantile cases, reasonable notice
is a question of law. 1 T. ?. 167. Tindall v. Brown.
The court did not say of zwsar or to wnom notice was
to be given.
But the underwriters were not bound to refund without proof as. well as notice.

FEBRUARY, 1807.'

67

,(.gersoll, contra.
1. As to the competency 6f Remington.

SMITH AN

A witness

"cannot be excluded if he is competent to answer any
question. 3 T. R. 27. Bent v. Baker. If the suit had

been brought -only for the premium of insurance, his
competency would have been unquestionable.- Shall it
be in the power of the plaintiffs to diprive the defendants of their witness, by blending other' matters of account -in their action? Surely not. But here. all the
other items of the. plaintiffs' account- were expressly
admitted by the defendants before they offered Reming"
*ton as a witness; and he was offered as a witness to that
one item only.
2. As to the copy of Carrington'sletter, it is connected -with that from Smith & Ridgeway, which the
bill of exceptions states to be a letterfrom them to Carrington, purporting to be in answer to Carrington's
letter to them. There was evidence that it was in his
hand-writing, and that he had been absent in'China fot
two years, so that he could not have fabricated it fik
the occasion. Where there is a connected correspondenc'e, tfie whole ought to go to the jury.
• In mercantile cases, the rules of evidence are not so
strict asin other cases. 1 Dall 16, 17. Riche.v. Broadfield. ParA, 406. 2 Str. 1127. Russel v. Boehme. 3
Dalil. 19. Bingham v. Cabot. 2 Dail. 384-51.
3. As to the opinion givc. and the oplniqn refused.
The question is noi yet settled whether a bill of exceptions will lie to an erroneous opinion given by the
judge in his charge to the jury at the trial; or to a
proper opinion prayed and refused. 3 BI. Com. 372.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. Is not the reason why the English books d6 not show such a case, because, upon a
doubt, as to the correctness of the opinion of the judge
in his charge to the jury, a case is Always made, and 'a
new trial moved for, on the ground of misdirection?

Ingersoll. If the.court bad given an opinion upon
the reasonableness of the notice, it would have been

CR.2UNo."
ToP .N

oa--

SUPREME COURT U. S.
A., error, becaluse it is a matter of fact. But here the
prayer was that the court should give an opinion as to
CAnurva. thefact of notice, as well as .to the reasonableness of
TON AND
notice. The expr6s3ion "uwider the circumstances of
OTHERS.
the case" refers the matter offact to the court. It calls
upon the court to say what are the circumstances of the
case, and consequently to decide the weight of evidence, and to infer one fact from others, which is the
peculiaf province of the jury.

N.x-TH
OTHERS

The jury is certainly to decide the facts ; whether
upon those facts the notice is reasonable, may be matter
of la* ; but in Pennsyltinia, and perhaps in other
states, it is usual to submit the whole question to the
jury, the cpurt givipg them information as to such points
,of law as have bqen decided.
If the facts are settled, the court may give instruction as to the law ; but if the question of law cannot be
abstracted from the question of fact, the whole must be
submitted to the jury. 1 Dal. 255. Robertson v. Vogle.
2 Dall. 158. B8anh v. N"1'Knight. 2 Dali. 192. 2Mallory
V. Kirwan.
P. B.. Key, in reply,
1. Abandoned the objection .to the admissibility of
Remington as a witness.
2. As to the copy of the defendant Canrrigton's letter.
No man can make evidence for.himself. 2 Pez. 42.
A copy cannot be given in evidence until you have
proved that the original existed, and. is lost or destroyed,
or not in the power of the party to produce ;' and then
the copy must be proved by a witness who comparbd it
with the original.
It does not appear that the plaintiff admitted the papdr
supposed to be a letter from Smith & Ridgetway, to be
genuine, and simply not denying is not admitting. But
the plaintiff objected to both the copy and the letter, as
appears by the whole tenor of the bill of exceptions.

FEBRUARY, 18o7.
3. As to the opinion prayed.

S3s1-

ANS,

OT11=3
V.

The expression " all the circumstances of the case,"
means all the circumstances of the case stated in the
bill of exceptions, and the evidence to which it refers.
This-wascertainly proper. It was not praying the court
to decide thefacts, but only the law arising upon those
facts. The court has a right to say, that under the circumstances of the case, the law is so.
MARSHALL, Ch.

J. Does not that involve the verity

of the facts ?
Key. The court can say that there was no evideqce
whatever of notice, and if so, that the plaintiffs had a
right to recover. The question what is evidence is
matter of law.
But the court erred in submitting the whole question
of reasonable notice to the jury. The reasonablenessis
matter of law. 2 Inst. 222. Co. Lit. 56. (b). 1 T. R.
167. and 2 T. R. 186. Tindall v. Brown.
February16.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court.

This case comes up on exceptions to certain opinions
given by the judges of the circuit court of Rhode-Island,
at the trial of the cause before them.
The first exception is to the admission of Peleg
Remington as a witness.
This exception appeared to be abandoned by the
counsel in reply, and is, indeed, so-perfectly untenable,
that the court will only observe, that Peleg Remington
does nut appear to have been interested in the event of
the cause in which he deposed, but certainly WVas not
interested in the particular .fact to which he was required to depose, and was therefore clearly a competeht
Witness.

CA1=,,-

ron -.p

70
X
oHT.ERS

SMi.TH

C.

The second exception is taken to the opinion of the
court admitting as evidence a paper purporting to be

-V.the copy of a letter written by the defendant, Carring-

TON AND
OTHRS.

Y

SUPREME COUlIT U. S.

ton, to Smith & .Ridgewayof Philadelphia, the corerepondents of the pJaintiffs, and also a letter from Smith

JV Ridgeway to the defendant, Carrington,purporting
to be an answer to the gaid letter.
To the admission of the letter of Smith & Ridgewa ,
no just objection appears. The verity of that letter is
acknowledged on the face of the bill of exceptions, and
no cause is stated why it should not have been read to
the jury. But the admission of the copy of a letter
written by one of the defendants, stands upon totally
different ground.
To' introduce into a cause the copy .of any paper,
the truth of that copy must be establishdcl, and sufllcient
reasons for the non-production of the original must be
shown.
If in this case the answer'of Smith & Ridgeway had
autherticated the whole letter of Carrington, the copy
of that letter need not have been offered, since its whole
contents would have been proved by the answer to it. If
its whole contents were not proved by the.answer, then
the part not so proved.was totally' unauthenticated, and
may have formed no part of the original letter. In
this case, the answer cannot have authenticated the
copy, because the bill states that the defendants gave
no proof of its being true, This copy, therefore, not
being proved to be a true copy, ought not to have gone
before the jury. Into ita importance or operation, this
court cannot inquire. Itwas improper testimony, and
a verdict founded on improper testimony cannot stand.
For this error the judgment must be. reversed, and
the causeggm-andedto the circuit court of Rhode-Island,
to be agaoatried.
The- 'third exception is taken to the refusal .of the
court to give an'opinion on a question, stated hy the
couns0l for the plaintiffs. The difficulty of deciding
on thi exception does not arise from any doubt which

tEB1UARY, Igor.

71

ought to have been produced by.the facts in the cause, SMTIr AIM,
OaTans
but from the manner .in which the question was pro- CIAani.
pounded to the court.
TOX AnD

After a long ancd complex statement of the testimony, the counsel for the plaintiffs requested the court to
declare whether, " if the plaintiffs hail actually paid
the said premium to the underwriters, before any notice of the change of the destination of the ship, they
had a riglit, under the circumstances,of the case, to recover the same of the defendant."
To this question the court refused to give an answer.
There can be no doubt of the right of a party to require the opinion of the court on any point of law
which is pertinent t9 the issue, nor that the refusal of
the court to give such opinion furnishes cause for an
exception ; but it is equally clear that the court cannot
be required to give to the jury an opinion oi'the truth
If testimony in any case.
Had the plaintiffs' counsel been content with the answer of the court to the question of law, he wpuld have
been entitled to that answer ; but when he involved fact
with law, and demanded the opinion of the court on
the force and truth of the testimony, by adding the
words " under the circumstances of the case,' the
question is so qualified as to be essentially changed;
and although the court might with propriety have separated the law from the fact, and have stated the legal
principle, leaving the fact to the jury, there was nf,obligation to make this discrimination, and consequently
no error was committed in refusing to answer the question propounded.
The record also exhibits a part of the charge given to
the jury, on which the counsel for the plaintiffs have
argued as. if itcomposed a part of the bill of exceptions. It is in these words: " And the said court,
prior to the request last mentioned, did decire and
give their opinion to said jury, that the, case wholly
turned upon the point whether or not the said defendVol. IV.

K

oTZ..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SzUTH AND

OH.RS

CARSINOTON AND
OTHERS.

ants had given due and seasonable notice of the cliango
of the destination of said ship. 'That it was a questiou
proper for the said jury to decide Ohether such due
and seasonable notice had been given ; and that if they
were of opinion it had been so given, on consideringthe whole of the evidence, they ought not to allow the
plaintiffs' said charge for said premium."
That a part), has a right to except to a misdirection of
the jury contained in the charge of the judge who tries
the cause, is settled in this court. (Ante, vol, 2. P. 29.
Church v. Eubbart.).
That the opinion which tle record ascrites to the
judge in this case, is incorrect, unless somtie other part
of the charge shall have so explained it as to give to (he
words a ineaning different from that which is affixed to
them taken by themselves, is the opinion of this court.
The judges instructed the jury, "that the case wholly
turned upon the point whether or not the defendants had
given due and seasonable notice of the change of the
destination of the said ship," and that if they were of opinion that due and seasonable notice had been given,
they ought to find against the plaintiffs, on the question
of their right to recover the premium advanced by them
for the-defendants.
Due and seasonable notice, must have been given
as soon after the destination of the vessel was changed, as it would have been given, whether the premium had or had not been advanced by the plaintiffs
before they received it; or this direction must have
left it to the jury to determine whether notice was or
was not due and seasonable, although it might not have
been received by the plaintiffs before they had actually
advanced for the defendants the sum in contest.
On the first exposition, these words would amount
to a clear misdirection of the jury ; because, if the
plaintiffs had paid to the underwriters, at the request of
the defendants, the premium of insurance, before they
received notice countermanding the directions to make
such payment, the right given by subsequent circum-

FEBRUARY, 1807.
stances to the insured to de.mand its return from the Smuvu,-,6

underwriters, could Dot affect the claim of the plaintiffs

oTuZUS

on the defendants, for money fairly advanced by them CA O.
isn
kou
for the use of the defendants.
OTUllnrI.

If the latter construction be adopted, there was till
a misdirection on the part of the court. The-judge
oughtnot to have left it expressly to the jury %odecide7
whether notice given immediately after the change of
the Hestinatioh of the vessel could be due and seasonable
notice, unless it was received before the premium was
advanced;
It is, however, not material to the present cause to
determine whether this exception does or'does not exhibit a misdirection to the jury, since we are uinanimously of opinion, that .foradmitting a paper purporting to be, the copy of a letter from Edwrd Carrington
to Smith & Ridgeway, to go to the jury, which wap not
proved to be a copy, the judgment must be reversed.

Judgment reverstd,

PENDLETON AND WEBB v. WAMBERSIE
ET AL.

-

~WAM

PzNr.ZTu
Amni %VZ82
V.

azna~.

AND OTUXEJ.

ERROR to the'circuit court for the. district of
Georgia, in a suit in equity, in which Pendleton and W~ebb
were complainants against Emdnuelfambersie, 7ames
!Seagrove, and the represehtativeof Yames Armstrong,

of an ssignee
art.
of
ne in cajoint
purehase and

Yacob Weed, and Henrg.Osborne, were defendants.

sale of lands,

The bill stated that Henry Osborne, Jacob Weed,
James Armstrong, James Seagrove, and the complainant John Webb, on the 22d of December, 1786, entered into an agreement with each other, under seal, -to
procure lands on their joint account in the state of
Georgia, to an amount not exceeding 200,000 acres, at

billn equity
against
the

An asiiiunee

may sustain a
other copartners and the
cnet
to
concern,Of tho
campel a dis.
co'ery of the

