316
CHAtPEI,Z.AZNF AND
AN6THER

v.
DEC-ENADx.

SUPREMt.-COURT Ti. S.

This bill was brought to correct the stated.account w
July, 1792, and to settle the accounts between the parties subsequent to that period.

The defendant exhibits

the accounts stubsequent to that period, but claims to
set against them the balance due to his testator under
the settlement of 1792. On those subsequent accounts,
that balance has no influence. By introducing it into
an account he was compellable to render, he cannot destroy the effect of that account, Had he intended to
rely on this circumstance, he ought 'to have .made the
point before the auditors, and thus have enabled the
plaintiff to take othermeasures t9 substantiate his claim.
The auditors say they "admitted the account presented
by the defendant ;" but this must be understood with
the exception of the.balance which he claimed under the
settlement of July, 1792. It does not appear, from
their report, that the claims of the plaintiff below rested on that account so far as it went; but it is probable
that further research was deemed unnelcessary. The
court cannot say that inthis the auditors erred.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, so far as
it accords with this opinion, and is reversed as to the
residue.

rFUNzTED

THE UNITED STATES v. MIDOVEL.

V-.

MIDOWELL.

In deciding
Whether the
ERROR .t6 the distiict court for the district of Kenmatter in dis- tuckv, in an action 'of d1ebt for tmcnfty thousanddollars,
-sus,
the p;enilty of an official bond given, by the defendant, as
cient to
rain the juris- marsh~l of that districtfor the faithful execution of the
diction of this duties of his office by Limself and his deputii:S. The de-'
court, it will
look to the feuidant pleaded performance generally. The United
sum due itpon States, -in their replication, assigned a special breach of
the condition the condiTiot' of the bond, in not-paying over to. the
*f ek' .,nd, United States the sumof three hundredandtwenty-eight
and not ti the..
penalty

FEBRUARY,. 1s.

3187

dollarb. The judgment below was against the'United TuLUarraD
States, who sued out the present writ of error.
STATrs
"

But this Court, without argument, decided that it had
no jurisdiction, the matter in dispte being of less value
dollars.
than 2.000

THE MAYOR AND COMMC _ALTY OF
ALEXANDRIA v. PATTEN
AND OTHERS.

V

b1'Do'.ELL.

M.ton. &C
IoF ALEX-

,-DRIA
PATTZ7a AND
OTacas.

ERROR to the circuit courtof the district of Colm-

Ift!edcbtor

bia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of debt brought at the time or
by the mayor and commonalty of Alexandria, for the pa.yment does
u3e'of John G. Ladd, against Thomas Patten and his not direct to
suretics, on a bond.given for the performance of his duty thcamcount
as vendue-master.
""1sh1 be ap.
plied, the cre.
may at
The objectof the suit was to recover a sum of money ditor
arr time ap.
alleged to remain in his hands as vendue-master on ac- 1..;t 10 Whiel

count of goods sold for Ladd. Patten was also the aircunt
debtor of Ladd for goods sold by him to Patten, who Pirr.
gave in eviderce payments which exceeded the aniount
due upon the latter account, and which, if applied t6-the
former account, would nearly, if not entirely, discharg.
that debt. The payments were attended by circumstauces which the defendants considered as evidence of '
clear intention to apply them to -the debt due from Patten as vendue-master; " Whereupon the cdunsel for th,
plaintis prayed the opinion of the court whether, from
the manner in which the pnvments were made as aforesaid, the said John G. Ladd had not a right to apply so
much of the money, paid to him as aforesaid, as woul
discharge the debt due to him as afo resaid, for goods srld
as aforcsak to the said Thomas Patteti, to the discharge
of the sai e. Whereupon the court instructed the jury,
that if the), should be satisfied by the evidence that the
payments of the money by the defendant, Patten wert

he

