EEBRUARY, 150Y,

EX PARTE BOLLMAN AND EX PARTE

SWARTWOUT

Ex PAnTIz
BOLLUAi
AN~D

Sw~alr'r
W0UT.

C. LEE moved for a habeas corfizs to the marshal of This court
to
issuepower
tu: writ
the district of Columbia, to bring up the body of Samuel has
Swartwout, who had been committed by the circuit of ,a
6rcourt of that district, on the charge of treason against pus id rabjici.
the United States; and for a certiorarito bring up the edulnrecord of the commitmenti &c.

To consti-

lute
a tevyis
xf'vr, twere .

And on a subsequent day Harper made a similar mo- must be

an

tion in behalf of Brick Bollmat, who had also been corn- assemblage ut'
persons for
mitted by the same court on a like charge.the purpose 6/
of
Olioting

The.order ot the court below, for their commitment,
was in these words:

gcrba.
tre-

pursonahle
pose. EAnL.
ment of men

"The prisoners, Erick Bollman and Samuel Swart- to serve a.
wout, were brought up to court in custody of the mar- suinst goverm
meit is not

On. aformer day (Feb. 5) C. Lrebad made a motion for a habeas
corpvsto a alitary officer to bring up the body of ames Aexar.detr,
an attorneyat lawat New-Orleans, who,' as it was said, had been
seized by an armed force under the qrders of General Wilkinson, and
transported to the city of Washington.

sufficient.
When war is
levied, all
those
who
perform an),
part, however
li ute,
or
however

re-

CHASn, J. then wished the motion might lay over to the next day. motefrom the
He -wasnot prepared to give an opinion, lie doubted the jurisdiction scenie cfaction.
afthis court to issue a habeas 'rpus in any case.
and ho are
actually leajoHssoc, J. douxbted whether the power given by the act of con. 8 inedn the
gress, vokl .p. 101, of issuing the writ.of habeas corpus, was not io. Be..ral ccrsi.
tended as a mere auxiliary po*er to enable courts to exercise some racy, are trai:
otherjurisdicdon given by law. He intimated an opinion that Other toes.
of the jdges at his chambers might issue the writ, alhough the
Anyassem.
court collectively could not.
bage of men

for the pur-

CE As, J. agreed that either of the judges might issue the vrit, fs
of rve.
but not out of his peculiar circuit
luiofrizingb.

• " The whole subject
. .
• be taken upr de o e r ent/the go.
esMARSHALt, Ch. J.
will
without reference to precedents. It is the wish of the court to have tublisbed b)

the motion made in amore solemn manner to-morrow, when you may the
-Utei,
come prepared to take up the whole ground. [Butin the mean time States in n)
:Mr. Alexander was discharged by a judge of the circuit court.)
of- iti terr*to.

SUPREME COURT. U. S.
Ex

PAU

'a

BOLLMXAN

shal, arrested on a charge of treason against the United
States, on the oaths of General James Wilkinson, Gene-

ral William Eaton, James L. Donaldson; Lieutenant
William Wilson, and Ensign W. C. Mead, and the
court went into further examination of the charge :
ries, although Whereupon it is ordered, that the said Erick Bollman
and Samuel Swartwout be committed io the prison of
r atiepe
of executing, this court, to take thieir trial for treason against the Unisome greater ted States, by levying war against them, to be there kept
projects, '- in safe custody until they shall be discharged in due
mounts
leying to
tar.course
of law."*
SWART-

wou-.

Tha-travelling
of individuals
to
tile "place
ofrendezous

is not suffi
cient; but the

The oaths referred to in the order for commitment,
were affidavits in writing, and were filed in the court

below.f,

tnetingofpartitular bodies 0 The warrant by-which they were brought before the tourt was
of mnen, andasflo
:
their march- as follows
ingfromnplace DISTRICT or COLUXaIA, tO Wit:

oJpartzal, to a

placeof generotts, is such

M~eUnited States of America, to the marshalof the district tf
Columbia,greeting.

an assemblage
as constitutes
a levying of
war.
A person
may be com.
mitted for e
-rime by one
magistrate
upon an afridavit made
before Another. A ma
gistrate, who
is found acting as such,
must be pre.
sumed
to

Whereas there is probable cause, supported by the oath of Jamec
Wilkinson, William Eaton, James Lowrie Donaldson, William C.
Mead, and William Wilson, to believe that Erick Bollman,
( Sea,.) commonly called Doctor Erick Bollman, late of the city of
Ceal) Philadelp~hia, n the state of Pennsylvania, gentleman, - and
of
Samuel Swartwout, late of the city of New-York, in the stato
of New-York, gentleman, are guilty of the crime of treason against
lie United States of America.

-have

These are, therefore, in the name of the said United States, to
command you that you take the bodies of the sald Eick Bollman and
Samuel Swartwout, if they shall be found in the county of Washington, in your said district, and them safely keep, so that you hare
their bodies before the circuit court of the district of Columbia, for
the county of Washington, now sitting at the'Capitol, in the city of
Washington, immediately to answer unto the United States of America of and concerning te chai ge aforesaid. Hereof fail not pt your
peril, and have you then and there this writ. Witness the Honour-

taken able

WILLIAM CRAfHl,

Esq. Chief Judge of the said Court, thia

the requisite 27th day of January, 1807.
oaths.
WILLIAM BRENT, Clek.
Zuere, whether, upon a
Issued 27th day of January, 1807.
motion
to
commit a person for treat Fr these affidavits, see Appendix, Note (A).

FEBRUARY, 180?.

7?

C. Lee, for Swartwout.

Ex
PARTZ
Bo1.LSA1

Notwitlistanding the decisions of this eourt'in. Hamil- SW'RT
wou.
-ton's case, 3 Dall. 17. and in Burford's case, ante, vol. 3.
. 448. we are now called upoh to show that this court
son, an aflida.
has power to issue a writ of habeas corpms.
vit stating the
subsiaice of

By the constitution of the United States, art. 3. s. 2.
the grant of jurisdiction to the courts df the .United
States is general, and extends to alt cases arising under
the laws of the United States. This court has either
original or appellate jurisdiction of every case, with such
exceptions and under such regulations as congress has
made or shall make. If congress has not excepted any
case, then it has -cognizance of the whole.
The appellate jurisdiction given by the constitution to
this court includes criminal as well as civil cases, and no
act of congress has taken it away. This court derives
2
its power .and its jurisdiction not from -a statute, but
from the constitution itself. No legislative act is ne.
vessary to give powers to this court. It is independent
of the legislature ; and in all the late discussions upon
the question of putting down courts, it was admitted on
all hands that the legislature could not destroy the supreme court.

a letter

in

Possession of
the afftantba
admissible

evidence)

The c-,ase

of the 8th
act of ctngress, "f r
the

panidh-

. again
a-.Jt
cr"ies
t
United
the
States," rot. 1.

provides
103. which
P"
tha~t
roie trial of
crimes committed on the
igh se, 0'

tnyOt placc
'JU.

ridictin of
aaoy particulat

But if this court has no criminal jurisdiction to hear in t he shst be
anddetermine,yet they may have a criminal jurisdiction where the of.
to a certain extent, viz. to inquire into the cause ofcom- fender is up.

mitnient, and admit'to bail. This court has no original Prehended, or
which ie
jurisdiction, except in certain cases ; yet it has power to into
may be first
i
~cep
jursditio,
issue a mandamus in cases in which it has no appellate brought," 2pjurisdiction by writ of error or appeal, and will issue a plies only to
prohibition even in a -criminal case, if a circuit court o0itte on.
should undertake'to try it in a state ifi which the crime high seas, or
was not committed. So also if a district court should be .in tome rike,
proceeding upon a matter out of its jurisdiction, this Aarn, baor,
or Bay, not
court would grant aprohibition.
risdiction of

i y the judiciary act, s. 14. ool. 1. p. 68. " All the he- a particulir
forementioned courts" (and the supreme court was the stae, and not
tera'ib.
court last mentioned in the preceding section) " shall to the
th
couh
a tppower to issue writs of scirefacias, b
habeas corps, UnitedofSte:,
have

SUPREME COURT U. S.
EX PATT
BOLLM1A

SAN-

tive jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principlesand

woUr.
\V
b
where reg-lar courts-are
established,

competent to
try those ofThe ewrord
cc apprehend-

ed," in

and all other writs not specially provided for by statute,
which may be necessary for the exercise of their respec-

that

clause of the
act, does not

usages of law." "And either of thejustices of the supreme court, ,as well as -judges of the district courts,
shall have power to grant writs of habeas,corpus, for tho
purpose .of an iriquiry into the cause of commitment:
Provided,that writs of habeas corpus shall in no case cxtend to prisoners in gaol, unless Wheee they are in custody under or by colour of the* authority of th'e United
States, or are committed for trial before -some court of
the samde, or are necessary to be brought into court to
testify."

imply a legal
arrest, to the

It has been suggested that the words It and 2ll other
exclusion ofa writs not specially provided for by statute, which may
'nilitarY " be necessanffor the exercise of their respective jur;sdicrest or seizr.

tions," forbid the issuing of a habeas corpus, but ina case
where it is. necessary for the exercise of the court's jurisdiction. But.the wofds "necessary," &c. apply only
to the "other writs not specially providedfor."

In order to restrict in some degree the general expression " a/i other writs," the subsequent words are used.
The writ of habeas corpus was particularly named, because it would not (in all cases where it ought -to be
granted) come under the general'denomination of writ&
necessaryfor the exercise of the jurisdictionof the court
issuing it.
But admitting, for argument,- that a Writ of habeas corpus cannot issue.but where it'is necessary for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court issuing it, ,et the
term "jurisdiction" means the whole jurisdiction given
to the court ; and as this c9tirt has, 'by the constitution,
jurisdiction in criminal. onses, which jurisdiction is not
taken away by any statute, it is a writ necessar for the
exercise of its jurisdiction. Again, by the 33d section
of the ame act, " upon arrests in criminal cases, where
the punishment may be death, bail shall not be admitted
but by the suPirtmE or a circuit court,' or by a justice
of the suprpme court, 6r a judge of a difitrict court, whd
shall exercise their discretion therein, regardingthe ndture and circumstances of the oeence, and of the evidence,

FEJ3RuARY, 1807.

79

o-XTX
By this section the supreme • EX
nd the" usages of Jb.
BOLLUAN
AND
court has jurisdictionto admit aprisonerto bail in criminal cases punishable. with death, .and for that purpose to svA.rvo uT.
exair'ineinto'the nature- wnd circuinstancesof the ofence,'
andf the vvidence. - For the .exercise, of this jurisdiction the -writ-of habeas corpus is necessary. There is
no other writ, "agreeable to the usages of law," which
will -answer the purpose.
-

-It-is doubtful 'whether a judge of this court can issue
the-wiit while the court is sitting, and'in a district in
whith he has no authority to act as a circuit judge.
If it be said that the writ can only issue where it is in
exercise of appellate jurisdiction, we say it is appellate
jurisdiction which we call upon this court to exercise.
The 5rrt-below has made an illegal and erroneous order, -and we appeal in this ways and pray this court-to
.'correct the error.
Rodney,' Attorney General, declined arguing thu point
on: behalf of the United States.
Hiarper,for Boflran,
Theie are tWo general considerations:
I.-Whether this court has the power generally of issuing-the writ of fiabeds corpus ad subjiciendum P
2. If -it had the power generally, whether it extends
to ebmmitmeuts bv the qircuit court-?
1; The 'eieral -power bf issuing-this great remedial
writ; is incident to this court ai. a supreme court of re-cord. ' It is a power given.to such a court by the corimen law. Every court possesses necessarily certain incidentalpowers as a court. Thi§'isproved by every day's
prattice.- If this cburt possessed no powers'but those
ghun-by, stats te, it could not protect itself from insult
and outrage. It could not enforce 6be'dience to its immediate orders. It could not imprison for contempts in
its presentnn. It cobld not compel the attendance of a
witness-, ifor-tblige him'to testify, It could not compVIl
Vol. IV.

L

80
•

tX

AN,
SVARWOtrT.

'Yw.J

SUTPRED4J 'COURT U. S.

the attendance of jurors, -incasoo -where it -lips original
cognizance, nor punish he= for Inprper conduct,
These powers are not given by the conptit tion, aor by
statute, but flow from the commo" law. Thip quertion
isnot connected with another, much ,gitat~d in this
country," but little understood, viz. whb btr Ahe jqnirts
of the United States hv.e a common law jurisdictio to
punish common law offences against xhe govtrnmrent Pf
the United States. The power to punish offences against
the government is not nocesearily incidentto 4 court.
But the power of issuing writs of aAa5eas
%cQrpus,for the
purpose of relieving from illegalimprisionment, is,one Pf
those inherent powers, bestdwed 'by the law upon every
superior court of record, 'qs incidental to its nature, for
the protection of the citizen.
It being clear then that incidental powers bel0.nz
$o
this in common with every other court, wher.P. q w.e
look fo' the definition, enumeration and extent Of those
powers, but to the common law; to that code from whence
we derive all our legal definitions, term* and ideap, and
which foris the substratuhi of all our juri.djcal qy-:
tems, of all our legislative and constitutional provisions. It is not possible to move a single step iq nny
judicial or legislative proceeding, or to execute any part
of our statutes, or of our constitution, yithput having
recourse to the common law. The constitution uses, for
instance, the terms " triqlbyjury" and "lw"eastorpus."
How do we ascertain what iomeant by these terms ?
By a reference to the common law. This court has
power, in some cases, to summon jurorq, and egamine
witnesses. If an objection be made to the compernce
of a witness, or a juror be challenged, how do you proceed to ascertain the competence of the witness or the
.juror? You look into the common law. The common
law, in short, forms an essential part of all our ideas. It
informs us, that the power of issuing the writof habeas
crous belongs incidentally to every superior Court of
record ; that it is part of their inherent righs and duties
thus to watch over and protect the liberty of the iqdividu t.
Accordingly we find that the court of common pleas
in England, theugh possessing no criminal jurisdiction

FEBRUARY, 1807.
of any kiid, origiral or appellate, ha&power to isue this Ex
T
writ of habeas corpus. This power it possessed by the 1OLLMI
A NDcommon law, as an incident to its existence, 'before it SWART.
was expressly given by. the habeae corpus act. This apwoUr.
pears from Bushel' chse, reported in Sir Thomas .ones,
1M& and- stated, in Wood's case, 3 ilson,, 1.75. by the
chieW justice, in -deliveizing the opinion of the court.
.&ushell'&ease was shortly this: A person was indicted
at the "Odil
, in London, for holding an unlawful.
ceaventicle. The jury aequitted him, contrary to- the
direction, of the court on the law. For this some of the
julars, and- Bushell am-ng the rest,, were fined and iwprisoned by the court at the Old Batley. .4ushell then
moved the court of common pleas for a writ of habeas
oorpusi which, after solemn argument and consideration,
was granted by three judges against one. Bushell was
broaght up, and the cause of his cgmmitment appearing
insuficient, he was discharged. This tookplace before
the habeas-corpus act was passed, and is a. con.clusive authority in favour of the doctrine for which we contend.
Wood': case, 3 Wilsonr 17$. and 3 Bac. Ab, 3. are clear
to the saine point.
Whence does the couxrt of common. pleas derive this
power? * Not from its criminal jurisdiction. fqr it has
raon.
Not from any statute; for when Bushell?s case
was'decided thererwas no statute on the subject.. Nob
from any idea that such a power is necessary fortht exercise of its ordinary functions ; for no such necessity.
exists'. or has ever been supposed to exist. But from the
great protective principle of the common law, which in
favour of liberty gives this power to every superior
court of record, as incidental to its existence.
The court of chancery in England possesses the same
power by the common law, as appears from 3 Bac. Ab. 3.
This is a still stronger. illustration of the principle, for
the court of chancery is still further, removed, g possible, than the court of cotrimon pleas, from all criminal
-jurisdiction, still more exempt from the necessity of such
a power for the exercise f its peculiar functiQons..
-

The court of exchequer also, as appears from the same
authorities, though WhoLy destitute of- criminal jurls-

SUPREME COURI U, S
Ex

PARTE
BOLLMAI
SWAUT°WOUT.

\cord

diction, possesses the powei of relieving,
pus, from illegal restraint.

by

ha'a&,cor-

Hence it appears that all the superior, courts of rein England are invested by the commonlaw with
this beneficial power, as incident to their euisterkce. Th6
reason assigfied for it. in the English law. books is, that
the king has always a right to know, and~by means of
these courts-to inquire, what has become of his subjects.;
That is, that he is bound to protect. the personal liberty'
of his people, and that these courts are the instruments
-which ,the law. has furnished hitn fbr-discharging'his high
duty witheffect.
It may then be asked, whether the same reasons do
not-apply to-oursifuation, and to- this court. Have th6
United States, in their collective capacity, as soveriign,
less'rlight to know ,what has 'beCome of 'their citigens,
than-the king brgovernment of England to inqfIire into
the- situation of his gubjects ? Are they under an obligation, less strong, to protect individual liberty? 'Have
not the people as good a right as those of England, td
the aid of a high and responsible court for the protection
of th6ir persons ? Is our"'situati6i les ad'nntageous
inthis respect than that of the English people? Or
have we no need of a tribunal, for such purposes, raised
by-its rank i-the government,- by its independence, by
the-charactet of 'those who compose it,above the dread
of .pomer, "above'-he• seductions of hope and the influence of fear, above the sphere of party passions, factious -views, and popular delusion ? Of a tribunal
whoser members, having, attained almost' all that the
constitution-of their cohfitry permits them to aspire td,
are lexempited, as fat: as the imperfection of our nature
allows us to be exempted, from all those siniste.rinfluences that blind 'and"swe've -the judgments of menhave'nothing to hope, dnd n6thing t6 fear, except from
their own consuiences, the opinion of the public, and
the awful judgment of posterity? Itis in the hands of
such a tribunal alone, that in times of faction or oppression, the libertV of- the citizen can be safe, 'Stich
a tribunal has the constitution created in this court,. and
can it be imagined, that this wise and beneflcefit constitution intended to deny to the 'eitizens the valuable pr-

F1,BRUARY, 1807.

88

vilegb of resorting" to this court, tor the protection of Er
their dearest- rights ?'

On this -ground alone the question might be safely
rested; but'theie iAanother, not stronger indeed, but
perhaps less liable to question. • "
•Congress has expressly given this power to this court,
by the 14th section of the act of 24th September,- 1789,
comnmonly called the-judiciary act. This section, according to its true grammatical construction, hnd its
apparent intent, contains two distinct provisions. --The
first relates to writs of scire facias and habeas corpi.d;
the second to such other writs as the court might find
riecessary for the exercise of theirjurisdiction. As to
writs of scirefaciasand habeas corpus, which are .of the
most" frequent and the 'most 'beneficial use, ;conigress
seems t6 have thought proper to make a specific anid
positive.provisi'on.. It was clearly and obviously--neoos1
sary that such writs should be issued; not. merely-to
aid the court in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction,
but for the general purposes of justice and protection.The authority, therefore, to issue thesewrits, is poastive and -ibsolute ; and not'dependent on,-tbe considera3ion whether they might be neces'sary for the ordinary
jurisdiction of the courts. To render them.dependent
on that'corisideration, would have been to deprive the
courts'of many of the most beneficial and iamportalt
powers which such courts usually possess* ,
Vut tlie"eegislature foresaw that ynany other writs
might, in the cours4 of proceedings, be found necessary
for enabling the courts'to exercise their ordinaryjuris,dictiobi, such as subpcenas, writs of venire facias, certiorari,fieri facias, and many Qthers, known to our
law. To attbrhpt a specific enumeratio of. these writs
might have been productive of inconvenience : for if
any had been omitted, there would'have been doubts of
the power to issue them. Congress, therefor'e, instead
of- a spe6ific enumeration of them, wisely chose to employ a generat description. This description is contained in the words, " all other writs- which may bh necessary for the exercise of their respective juridicibons,
and agreeable to tha principles and usages of law."

PAR
oLLM

Tmu.

t

SUPR1EMBCOV7T

u. S.

The trte gmm.tic.a construction of the setende
accords with this construction: The words of, restrieSWAP~r,tion or description (" which may b' net'essary for the

Ex PAnTZ
BoLLA.

worW,
\'

exercise of their rospeatfid jurisdicliom," &c.) stand
a relative,. and must refer tp the next alitece-

.hereas

dent.

There are two antecedents:

1s.

" Writo oE

scire facias and habeas corPus ;" and 2d. "All othei
to which,
write." The second is the nexth antecedeilt
ch
may be necessary"
,f course, the relative terms "ra
&c. must relate'and be conflned. Tbos- words therefore canitot, either in grainmatical constructionv or according to the plain object of the legislature, he considered as restricting the grant of power in the first part
of the"sentence; but, merely as explaining the exteilt
of the power given in the gecqnd part.
It is clear then tbit t~his section bestowb on, this court
the power to grant Writs of habea&corpus without restriction. Does this power extend to the application
now before the court .The term haoeas co'Pus is a generic term,.and includes all kinds of writs of habeas corpzp9; a4 well the,
writ ads-ubjiciqndum, a ad testjfcandumi, or curl causd,
But the 3d, section'of the same act must remove all
doubt upon that point; for whets It gives, this cpurt
power to admit to bail in cases punishab w4ith death,
.and commands this court to use their " discretion therein, regardingthenatureand circumstances q/ Ihe e6pdnce
and of the vidence"' it takes it for gra d, tlpx the
prisoner is to be brought before the st fol the purIf this
pose of inquiring into those circums;ar1cs.
.eection does wt give the power, it shows Rt least that
the legislature cousidered it as giveji before by the 14th
section. Again, the latter part of Ae lfth section givep
to each of the justic6s of this court, and of the' district
courts, tihe power for which we contend. It canhiot be
presumed that congress theant to giv. each judge singly
a power which it denied to the whole, court. That it
confided more in the individual members of. the court,
than in the court itself, That it considered the weight,
dignity, character, andfindependence of each indivi-

PEBRUARY 187.
dua! memberas3a more firm barrier against oppression
than those of the tribunal itself, sitting for the exercisr
of the highest judicial functions known to our law.

EX

This part of the statute is remedial and beneficial to
thi stbject, and it is a sound maxim of law, that such
statutes: are to be construed liberally in favour of liberty.

'ov-

'Considering it as settled that congress intended to
give this court the power to issue writs of Iwbearcorgo
od subjicfndum, the next question is, whether congress
had authority, by the constitution, to confer that

power.,The authority of congress must be tested by the
comututiou, and if they should appear to this court to
h.ave exeeded the limits there prescribed, this cort
must consider their act void. The power of the judiciary to collate an act of .congress with the constituion,
when it ccmes'judicially before them, and of declaring
it void if against the constitution, is one of the best
barriers against oppression, in the fluctuations of factiQn, and in those times of. party violence which neces.sarily result from the operation of. the human passions
in a popular government.
In the violence of those
pQlitical. storms which the history of the humai race
warns us to expect, this shelter may indeed be found
insufficient ; but weak as it may be, it is our best hope,
anti it is the part of patriotism to uphold and strengthen it tQL the utmost.

But it is a power, of a delicacy

inferior only to is impprtance ; and ought to be exercispd with the soundest discretion, and to',be reserved
for the clearest and the greatet occasions,
The question whether congress coull -confer upon
this court the power of issuing the writ of habeas corpus
ad subjiciendum, depends upon another question, viz.
whether this power or jiurisdiction be in its nature original or appellate. The original.jurisdiction 6f this
tourt being limited to certain specified case, of which
this is not one., it follows, that if the issuing such a writ
of habeas corpus be an exercise of original.jurisdiction,

PA=

BOL1TZ.&

$wagT
1

SUPREME COURT U. S.
EX

PRTE

the power to issue it.cannot be conferred on, or exetcised-by this court.

0onLUAN*
AKD

S,WAJt T-

wovr.

This principle was established by the case of Mrbury
v. Mifadison, (ante, vol. 1. p. 175.) where the court said
that " to enable'this court to issue a mandamus, it must
be shown to be an exercise of appellatejurisdiction, or
to be necessary to enable them to exercise appellatejurisdiction. It has been stated at the bar that the'appellate jurisdiction may be exercised in a variety of
forms ; and that if it be the will of the legislature that
a mandamus should be used for that purpose, that will
must be obeyed.. This is true. Yet the jurisdictioh
must be appellate, not original. It is the essential criterion of appellate jurisdiction that it revises and corrects thle proceedings in a cause already instituted, and
doe's not create that zause. Although, therefore, 'a
mandamus ,may be directed to courts, yet to issue such
a writ to an. officer, for the delivery of.a paper, is in
effect the same as to sustain an original action for that.
paper ; and theiefore, seems not to belong to appellate,
but to original jurisdiction."
This passage needs no comment. The criterion
which distinguishes appellate from original :jurisdiction,
is tlhat it revises and corrects the decisions of another
tribunl; and a mandamus may be tised when it is for
the accomplishment of such a purpose.
The object of the habeas corpus now applied for, ig
to .revipe and correct the proceedings of the Court be,low, (under whose orders the prisoners stand committed,) so far as redpects the iegality of such commitmen.. If that Court had givenjudgment against the
applicants in the sum of one hundred dollars, the power
to revise that judgment would have beei appellate, and
might have been given by congress to thig court, From
-adecision which might take a few dollars from their
pockets they might be relieved. Shall the relief be
rendered impossible.because the decision deprives them
of all that can- distinguish a freeman froni the most abject slave--of all that can render life desirable?

-

If the questior , respecting the power of this court,
u-dir the constitution and the act of congress, if not

FEBRUARY, 1807.

aT

under the common law7 to issue. the writ of'hal.cas Ex V'Xitc
corpus ad subjiciendum, were still open, it ought, on BOI.&7A
these principles and authorities, to be decided in our

favour. - But it is not open. It has been twice solemnly
adjudged in this court. First in the-case of Btwmilton,.
zDallas, 17. not long after the court was orgaized ;
and very receptly in the case of Bu rord. (Ante, vol. 3.
p. 448.). We contend that the case is settled by these
decisions, and that it is no longer a question whether
this court has the power which it is now called uptn to
exercise.
The exercise of this power, the betiefit of these decisions, -the protection of the law thus established, we
claim as a matter of right, which this honourable court
cannot refuse.
Shall it be said that no 'part of our law is fixed and
settled, except what is positively and expressly enacted
by statute ? On the contrary, is it not certain thr,t by
far the greatest portion of that law on: which our property, our lives, and our reputations depend, rests
solely on the decisions of courts ? Shall it be said that
all this important and extensive branch of'the law is
uncertain and fluctuating, dependent on the erer varying opinions and passions of men, and liable to change
with every.change of times and circumstances ? Shall
it be said'that each individual judge may rightfully disregard the decisions of the court to which lie belongs,
ad set up his own notions, his prejudices, or his caprice,
in opposition to their solemn judgment? This is not
the principle of our law ; this is not the tenure by
which we holdour rights and liberties. Stare decisis is
one of its favourite and most fundamental manims. It
,is
behind this wise and salutary maxim that courts and
judges love to take refuge, in times and circumstances
that might induce them to doubt of themselves, to
dread the secret operation of their own passions and
prejudices, or those external influences, against which,
in-the imperfection of our nature, our minds can never
be sufficiently guarded. In such times and circumstances, a judge will say to himself, "I know not how far I
might be able, in this case, to form an impartial opiVol. IV.

31

wove

SUPREME COURT U. S.

88
Ex

PARTE

nion. I know not how far my judgmemt maybe blinded
misled by my own feelings or the passiqns of others,
by the circumstandes of the moment, or the views and
wishes of those with whom I am connected. But here
is a" precedent established under circumstances which
exclude all possibility of improper bias. This precedent is therefore more to be relied on than my judgment; and to this I will adhere as the best+and only
means of protecting myself, my own reputation, and
the safety of those who are to be affected by my decision, against the danger of those powerful,. though imperceptible;influences, from which the nyost upright and
enlightened minds cannot be considered as wholly ex-

BOLLMAND
or
AND
SWART.
wouT.

"

C

empt."

There have, indeed, been instances where precedents
destructive to liberty, and shocking to reason and hu-'
inanity, established in arbitrary'and factious times, have
been justly disregarded. But when in times of quiet,
and in cases calculated to excite no improper feelings,
precedents have been established in favour of liberty
and humanity, they become the most sacred als well as
the most valuable parts of the law, the firmest bulwark
for the rights of the citizens, and the surest guardian
for the consciences and the reputation of judges.
Such are the precedents on which we rely.
The case of Hamilton was decided soon after the
establishment of the government, when little progress
had been made in the growth of party passions and interests, and wher whatever of political feeling ban be
supposed to have existed in the court, was against, the
prisoner. Yet this beneficial power was exerted for his
relief. He was brought before this court by habeas
corpu., and was discharged. The precedenit thus established was, by this court, fifteen years afterwards, in
the case of Burford, declared to be decisive.
The case of Burford was wholly unconnected with
political considerations, or party feelings. The application was mide on behalf of an obscure individual,
ptrongly suspected, though he'could not be legally conyicted, of a most odious and atrocious crime. The

PEBRUARY, 1607 ,

89

tbhorrenee of his supposed tffence i the stroqg circum- Ex Puft
e.sances which appeared -against him,'the course of his BOLI.UIAN
life, his general character, and the universal belief entertained of his guilt, all combined'to excite against
-WOT.
him every honest feeling of the hufnan heart. Yet he
had the benefit of one of those precedents which we
now claim ; and in his case the authority of another
and a more solemn decision was added to the doctrine
for which we contend.
--.Again letit be asked, is not thelax* to be considered
as settled by these repeated decisions? Are we still, as
to tis most important point, afloat on the troubled
ocean of opinion, of feeling, and of prejudice ? If so,
deplorable indeed is our condition.
i.fiseraest se'rtitus, ub lex est vaga aut incerta.
This great principle, stare deciWss, so fundamental inour Iaw, and so congenial to liberty, is peculiarly importdnt in popular governments, where the influence
-of the passions is strong, the struggles for powdr are
violent, the fluctuations of party are freqqent, and the
desire of suppressing opposition, or of gratif*,ng revenge tiunder the. forms of law, and by the agency of the
courts, is constant and active.
-t2. The second head of inquiry is, whether the power
to isEue writs of- habeas corpus be restricted by the circumstance of the commitment having been made by the
orcuit court-of the district of 'Columbia.
* Befor siU a principle is. admitted, let us inquire
ito its possible -nd even probable effects on the liberties
Of the,pebple. * Is it not-manifest that it would deprive
the citizens of the guardianship of the ihost respectable
and independent courts, and place their personal liberty
at the, mercy of inferior tribunals ? Do we not know
that congress may institute as many inferior tribunals,
and may assign to thejudges of these tribunals such
saaries as they may think fit? Does it not hence result
-that a succession of.courta may be instituted, to -the
lowest of which may be assigned salaries so contemptible, and duties so unimportant or so odious, as-necep-

90
Ex rjaT-s
DotLM

At~

.wA
yroV,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

sarily and certainly to excluile everyiman. of eharaqter,
talents and resDectability of every party ? Will not
A."h courts, therefore, be nqcessgrily filled by the
meanest.retainer, ..the mpat obsequtous flatterers, and
Sthe most servile toK,4 of those' in -power for the .momeut t Can Any thing like independence or integrity
be -expected from such judges? Will they not act continually under the influence, not merely of their own
party passions and prejudices, but Of hope and of fear,
those great perverters of the human mind e' The prece4ent is already set that they may be turned, out of office
y the abolition of their courts; and their hopes of
promotion to a higher staion, and. a better salary. will
depend on their servility 'and blind. obedience to those
in power. Let it In onc.e established by the authority
of this court, that a commitment on record by such a
tribu l, isto tepthe. course.of the writ of habeas 'orpin, is to shut° the mouth of the supreme court, and
s'e bow ready, Jhow terrible, and how irresistible an
engine of oppression isplaced in the hands of a doini1aqt party, flushed with victory, and irritated by a, recqnt conflic-t ;, or strtiggling t6 keep down an opposing
pirty which t-hates and fears. Does the history ot;he
hu an. passions warrant the conclusion, or the expecta7
tion that such .an engine will not be used ? We unfortunately know, from the experience of every age,
that there are, few excesses into which men may not be

hurriod by the lust of power or the thirst of vengeance.

We t6, are men of like passions, and it. behoves us,
e'q wye, haye reachcg these fatal extremes, to 'provide,
as far as the imperfeccion of hIman nature will permit
against the dangers which have assailed -others, and
which threaten usi I The hest mode of making this proviio4,, is to establish salutary maxims in quiet times,
agi4 to adhere to them s eadily. Let it be now declared
thgt there regides in . this high tribunal (as resppctable
as pr constitution can make it, and as in)dependent an
the nature of. our governnexit
jpermits)
a .power to protert the liberty of the citizen, by the writ of habras
carpus, against the enterprizes of inferior courts, which
may be constituted for the purposes qf oppression--or
revenge, and you place cute barrier more round our

safety.

FEBRUARY, 1807.

91

What stubborn maxim of law, what binding autho
rity requires the admission of a principle so repugnant
to all our feelings and to the spirit of the constitution ?
On what ground or reason of law can it be pretended
that a commitment by the circuit court stops the course
of the writ of habeas corpus .
Is it because the circuit court has competent jurisdiction to commit ? This cannot be the reason, for every
justice of the peace has competent jurisdiction to commit,
and the reason, therefore, if it existed, would destroy the
whole effect of the writ of habeas corpus.
Is it because the circuit court has competent juris-

dietion to try the offence ? This cannot be the reason,
for in Bushell's case, formerly 'cited from 3 Wilson, 175.
it annears that a commitment by the sessions at the
Old Bailey, a criminal court of very high authority, and
which -had jurisdiction over the offence, did not prevent
the court of comrnon pleas from relieving by habeas
corpus.
So also by the forest laws in England, in former times,
the judge of the forest had jurisdiction for the punishment of offences within the forest ; and yet it appears,
from 2 Inst. 290. that a person committed by thejudge
of the forest for such an offence, might be relieved by
habeas corpus from the superior courts.
It is well known, too, that, by the laws of England,
the king has power to erect courts by special conimission, with power to try and punish offences. From
Wood's case, 3 !Vilson, 173. it appears that a person
committed by such commissioners, in a case which ;hiyl
had authority to try, may be relieved by habeas 'orfi us.
This, therefore, cannot be the reason.
Is it because the circuit court is a court of record ?
So is the court of Piepiudre. But can it be imagined
that if that court. were to commit a man kin England,
the power of relieving by habeas corius from the superior courts would be thereby taken away? Congress
may erect as many inferior courts of record as they
please. Can it be imagined that by instituting such

Ex PARTS
BOLLMAN

s
wou' .

92
I. PARTE

Dor.MAN

S*AlT-

SUPREME, COURT U. S.

courts they. can, in effect, suspend the writ of habeds

corfius indefinitely, and in cases where the suspension 16
expressly forbidden by the constitution?

OUT.

power, moreover, has been shown to be appellate and it is of the very essence of appellate power
to review the decisions of inferior courts of record.
Can it be imagined that such a decision may be re'viewed where a small amount of property only is offected4
and that there is ho relief where it deprives a citizen of
his liberty?

SThis

Between superior courts of record, of equal authority and co-ordinate rank, there may properly be a
comity observed which would prevent them from attempting to interfere with the decisions of each other.
Perhaps in England the court of common pleas would
not attempt to release by habeas cor us,.a person committed by the exchequer, or chancery, and vice vera.
But this comity cannot exist between superior and inferior courts ; and there is no doubt' that the court of
king's bench, which is a court superior to the common
pleas and the exchequer, would grant a writ of habeas
coirpus, for any person imtirisoned by either'of tHose
courts for a criminal matter.
But this point does not rest on general reasoning
alone, h6wever strong. It has been expressly ad4udged
by this court. The case of Burford, formerly cited, is
- complete authority on this point, as vell hs on the
former. Burford's case had been acted on judicially
by the circuit court of this diotrict. He stood committed under its decision. That court did not, indeed,
commit him in the first instance, but he was brought before it on habeas corpus-the order of commitment
made by the justices of the peace was altered and modified, and he was committed by a new order from the
circuit court. This recommitment %fasas complete an
adjudication upon the subject as the commitment in the
present case. One was as much a deteimination on
record by the circuit court as the other ; and one can,
no mdre than -the other, preclude the exercise of. this
court's power to relieve by habeas corpus.

VE.K'RUARY, 1807.

93

Again, therefore,- we claim the benefit of this deci- EX PAU r
sioh. We again appeal to the -great maxim stare deci- BOLLMA39
-is ; we again deprecate the mischiefs that must ensue, SAU
wouT.
if precedents in favour of liberty, made in times and
unrder circumstances.the most favourable to correct decision, should lie disregarded in other times, and in
situations where the existence of passion, prejudice and
improper influence may be dreaded. We deprecate the
dangers and mischiefs that must- ensue, should the laws
on which our dearest rights depend, be thus left to
fluctuate oni the ever varying tide of circumstances and
events, and we trust that the protecting power of this
high tribanal, will now fix this great land-mark of the
constitution ; and will place our liberties, as far as the
imperfection of human things can permit, beyond the
reach of opinion, of caprice, and of sinister views.
February13.
MAlSHALL, Ch. ].* delivered the opinipn of tho
court, as follows:

As preliminary to any investigation of the merits of
this motion, this court deems it proper to declare that
it disclaims all jurisdiction not given by the constitution,
or by the laws of the United States.
Courts which originate in the common law possess a
jurisdiction which must be regulated by their common,
law, until some statute shall change their established
principles; but courts which are created by written law,
and whosejurisdiction is defined by written law, cannot
transcend that jurisdiction. It is unnecessary to state
the reasoning on which this opinion is founded, because
it bas been repeatedly given by this court ; and with the
decisions heretofore rendered on this point, no member
of the bench has, even for an instant, -been dissatisfied;
The reasoning from the bar, in relation to it, may be
answered by the single observation, that for the mean* The only judges present when these opin ions were given vere,
Marmhall, Ch. J. Washihgton, gohnson and Livingnton, Justices.
17=sdng, J. and Chm.e, J. were prevented by iM health from attending.

SUPREMECOURT U. S.
Ex PARTE
BOLLMA'
AND
SWART*OUT.

ing of the term habeas corpus, resort may unquestiobably be had to the common law ; but thepower to award

the writ by any of the courts of the United States, ipust
be given by written law.

This opinion is not to be considered as abridging the
power of courts over their own officers, or to protect
themselves, and their members, from being disturbed
,in the exercise of their functions. It extends only to
the power of tiking cognizance of any question between
individuals, o., between the government ant individuals.
To enable the court to decide on such question, the
power to determine it must he given by written law.
The inquiry therefore on this motion will be, whether
by any statute, compatible with the constitution of the
United States, the power to award a writ of habeas
corpus, in such a case as that of Erick Bollman and
Samuel Swartwout, has been given to this court.
The 14th section of the judicial act (Laws V. S. vol.

1. p. 58.) has been considered as containing a substan-

tive grant of this power.
It is in these words: " That all the before mentioned
courts of the United States shall have power to issue
writs of scirefacias, habeas corpus, and all other writs,
not speeially provided for 6y statute, which may be
necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law.
And that eitherof the justices of the supreme court, as
well as judges of the district courts, shall have power to
grant writs of habeas corpus, for the purpose, of an inquiry into the cause of commitment. Provided, that
writs of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to prisoners in gaol, unless where they are in custody under
or by colour of the authority of the United" States,
or are committed for trial before some court of the
same, or are necessary to be brought into court to testify."

FEBRUARY, 18o.

98

The'only doubt of which this section can be suscep- EVtiPaLT
BOLL.4AS
AND'
tible is, whether the restrictive words of the first senSWArof
writs
of
such
award
the
to
power
tence limit the
wou'r.
habeas corpus as are necessary to enable the courts of
the United States to exercise their respective jurisdic,
tions in some cause which they are capable of finally
deciding.
It has been urged, that in strict grammatical con.
struction, these words refer to the last antecedent, which
is, " all other writs not specially provided for by statute."
This criticism may be correct, and is not entirely,
without its influence ; but the sound construction which
the court thinks it safer to adopt, is, that the true sense
of the words is to be determined by the nature of the
provision, and by the context.
It may be worthy of remark, that this act was passed
by the first congress of the United States, sitting under
a constitution which had declared "that the privilege of
the writ of habeas corpus should not be suspended, ti,
less when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public
safety might require it."
Acting under the immediate influence of this injunce
tion, they must have felt, with peculiar force, the obligation of providing efficient means by which this great
constitutional privilege should receive life and activity;
for if. the means be not in existence, the privilege itself,

would be lost, although no law. for its suspension should
be enacted. Under the impression of this obligation,
they give, to all the courts, the p.wer of awarding writs
of habeas corpus,
It has been truly said, that this is a generic term, and
includes every species of that writ. To this it /may he
added, that when used singly-when we say the writ
of habea' corpus, without addition, we most generally

mean that great writ which is now applied for; and ii
that sense it is used in the constitutiop.
VOL IV.

SUPREME uuURT U. t.
E

PART
BOLLAN

SWART.

*•u.

. The section proceeds to.aay, that" either-of tbhjUstices of the supreme court, as well as judges- of the
district courts, shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus for the purpose of ,m inquiry into the cause
Sof

commitment."

It has been argued that congress could never intend to
give a power of this kind to one of the judges of this

cotift, which is refused to all of them when assembled.
There' is certainly much force in this argument, and
it receives additional strength from the consideration,
cthat if the power be denied to this court, it is denied to
evrery other court of the United States; the right to
grant this important writ is given, in this senternce, io
every judge of the circuit, or district eourt,'but can
neither be e:;ercised by the circuit nor district court.
It would be strange if the judge, sitting on the bench,
should be unable to hear a inotion for this writ where it
.mightbe openly made, and openly discussed, and might
yet Tetire to his chamber, and in private receive and
decide upon the motion. This is not consistent with
the Eenius of our legislation, norwith the course of our
jddicial proceedings. It would be much more consonant
'with both, that the power of the judge at his chambers
should be suspended during his term, than that it should
le xercised only in secret.
Whatever motives might indupe the legislature to withhold from the suprene court the power to award the
great writ of habeas copus, there could be none which
would induce them to'withhold it from every court in
the United Sfates: and as it iq granted td"allin the same
-sentenceand by th'eame words, the sound construction
would seem to be,'that the first sentence vests this power
in all the courts of the United States; but as those
courts are not always in session, the second qentence
vests it n every justice or judge of the United States.
The doubt which has been raised on this subject may
be further explained by eiramining the character of the
various writs of habe6 Forpus, ind selecting those to
which this gineral grant of power must be restricted, if
taken. in the limited sense of being merely used to enable

1MBRUARY,. 16o7.

1

the court t6 exercise its jurisdiction in causes -whichIt is Ex.w
Do&Vua
enabled to decide finally.
AIMD

SWART-

Tht various writs of habeas corpus, as'stated and accurately defined by judge Blackstqne, (3 BL.Com. 129.)
are, 1st. The writ of habeas corpus ad respondendum,
"when d man hath a cause of action against one-who is
confined by-the process of some inferior aourt; in order
to reinu7ve the prisoner and charge him with this new
action in the court above."
This case may occur when a p-Arty having a right to
sue inthis court, (as a state at the time of the passage of
this act, or a foreign minister,) w*ishes to institute a buit
against a person who is already confined by the process
of an inferior court. This confinement riay be eitherby
the process of a court of the United States, or of a state
court. If itbe in: a court of the United States, this writ
would be inapplicable, because pirfectly useless, and
consequently could not be contemplated by the legislature. It wbuld-not be'required, in such case, to bring
the body of the defendant actually into court, as he
would already be in-the charge of the person who, under
an original writ from this court,'Would be directed fo take
aim into custody, aid would already be confined in the
same jail in which he would be confined under the process of this court, if he should'betuible to give bail
If die party should be confined by process from a state
court, there are inany additional reasons agaiast the use
of this writ in such a case.
The state courts are not, in any sense of the word, inferior courts; except in the particular cases ir which
appeal lies from their judgment to this court ; and in
these cases the fiode of proceeditog is partibularly prescribed, and is not by habeas corpus. They are not inferior courts because they emanate from a different authority, and are the creatures of a distinct government.
2d.. The writ of habeas corpus ad satisfaciendum,
"when a-prisoner hath-had judgment against him in an
action, and tfie plaintiff is desirous to bring him up to

wouT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ExC 1'rtE

some superior court to charge him with process of

fxe-

cutlon
AND

SWAR r-

WOUT.

This case can never occur in the courts of the 'United
Stites. One court never awards execution on the judgment of another. Our whole juridical system forbids it.
3d. Adproequendum, tcstifcandum, deliberandum,'&c-.
" w'Aich issue when it is necessary to remove a prisoner,

in order to prosecute, or bear testimony, in any court, or
to be tried in the proper jurisdiction wherein the fact
was committed."
This writ might unquestionably be employed to bring
up o prisoner to bear testimony in a court, consistently
with the most limited construction of the words in the
act of cbngress, but the power to bring a person up that
he may be tried in the proper jurisdiction is understood
to be the very question now before the court.
4th, and last. The common writ adfaclendum et recipiendur, "which issues out of any of the courts of Westminster-hall, when a person is sued in some inferior jurisdiction, and is desirous to remove the action intothd
superior court, commanding the inferior judges to produce the body of the defendanti together with the day
and cause of his caption and detainer, (whence the writ
is frequently denominated an habeas corpus cur causa,)
to do and receive whatever the king's court shall consider
in that behalf. This writ is grantable of common right$
without any motion in court, and it instantly supersedes
tll proceedings in the court below."
I Can a solemn grant of power to a court to award a
writ be considered as applicable to a case in which that

writ, if issuable at all, issues by law' without the leave
of the court?
It would not be difficult to demonstrate that the writ
of habeas corpus cum causa cannot be th particular writ
contemplatedby the legislature in the section under consideration ; but it will be sufficient to observe generally
that the same act prescribes a different mode for bringIng
into the courts of the Uniied States suits brought in a

FEBRUARY, 187

9

to claim the IN PARTTN
A
state court against a person having a righit
He may,
States.
United
jurisdiction of the courts of the
puthenticate SwVATonhis first appearance, file his petition and removed
WoUT..
into
ipsofacto
is
cause
the
which
the fact, upon
the courts of the United States.
The only power then, which on this limited construction would be granted by the section under consideraad
tion, would be that of issuing writs of habeas corpus
was
this
that
proves
itself
testicandum. The section
not the intention of the legislature. It concludes'with
the following proviso, " That writs of habeas corpils
shall in no case extend to prisoners in jail, unless where
they are in custody under or by colour of the authority of
some
the United States, or are committed for trialbefore
pourt of the same, or are necessary to be brought into
court to testify."
This proviso extends to the whole section. It limits
it'
the powers previously granted tp the courts, because to
applicable
particularly
is
specifies a case in which it
the use of the power by courts :-where the person is
necessary to be brought into court to testify. Thatconstruition cannot be a fair one which wouldmake the legislature except from the operation of a proviso, limiting
the express grant of a power, the whole power inteided
to be granted.
From this review of the extent of the power of
awarding writs of habeas corpus, if the section be construed in its restricted sense ; from a comparison of the
nature of the writ which the courts of the United
States would, on that-view of the subject, be enabled t6
issue ; from a comparison of the power so granted with
the other parts of the section, it is apparent that this limited sense of the term cannot be that which was contemplated by the legislature.
But the 33d section throws much light upon this question. It contains these words: " And upon all arrests
in criminal cases, bail shall'be admittet, except where
the punishment may be death ; in which cases it shall
not be admitted but by the supreme or a circuit court, or
by a justice of the supreme court, or ajudge of a district

1o

SUPREME COURT U. $.

court, who shall exercise their discretion therein, re-

LX PAf Tt

IC garding the nature and circumstances'of the offence, a4
SwAiT- of the evidence, and of the usages of law."
'A

WOUT.
\kr',.€

'

The appropriate process of bringing up a prisoncr, not
committed by the court itself, ip be bailed, is by the writ
now applied for. Of consequence, a court possessing
-the power to bail prisoners not committed by itself, may
award 'a writ of habeas corpus for the exercise of that
power. The clause under consideration obviously p'rceeds on the supposition that this power was previously
,iven, and is explanatory of the 14th section.
If, by the sound construction of the act of congress,
the power to award writs of habeas corpus in order to
examine into the cause of commitment is given to this
court, it remains to inquire whether thih be a case in
which the writ ought to be granted.
The only objection is, that the commitment has been
faade by a court having power to commit and to bail.%
Against this objection the argurdent from the bar his
been so coriclusive that nothing can be added to it.
If then this were res integra, the court would decide
in favour"of the motion. But the question is considered
as long since decided. The case of Hamilton is expressly in point in all its parts; and .lthough the qdtlstion ofjurisdiction was not made at the bar, the caee was
several days under advisement, and this question could
not have escaped the attention of the dourt. From that
4e~ision the court would not lightly depart. (United
States v. Hamilton, 3 Dal. 17.).
If the act of congress gives this court the power -t
award a writ of habeas corpus in the present case, it remains to inquire whether that act be compatible with
the cdnstitutioti
In the mandamuscase, (ante, vol. 1. p. 175. MAarburyt v.
11adison,) it was decided that this-court would not efercise original jurisdiction except so.far as that jurisdiction was given by the constitution. But so fir as that

FEBRUARY. 1807c

101

casehas distinguished between original and appellate ju- I; ,rATh
risdiction, that which the court is now asked to exercise BOLLZMaV
AND
is dearly appellate. It is the revision of a decision of an sXninferior court, by which a citizen has been committed
wouT.
to-jail.
It has been dembnstrated *atthe bar, that the question
brought forward on a habeas corpus, is always distinct
from that which is involved in the cause itself The
question whether the individual shall be imprisoned is
always distinct from the question whether hq..shaR be
convicted or acquitted of the charge on which he is to
be tried, and therefore these questions are separated, and
may be decided in different courts.
The decision that the individual shall be imprisoned
must always precede the application for a writ of habeas
corpds, and this writ must always be for the purpose of
revising that decision, and therefore appellate in its nature.

But this point also is decided in Hamilton's case and,
In Burfrd's case.*
If at any time the public safety should require the
suspension of the powers vested by thisact in the courts
dfthe United States, it is for the legislature to say so.
That question depends on political considerations, on
which the legislature is to decide. Until the legislative
will be expressed, this court can only see its" duty, and
must obey the laws.,
The motion, therefore, must be granted.
Jonwsox,.J. In this case I have the misfortune to
dissent from the majority of my brethren. As it is a
case of much interest, I feel it incumbent upon me
to assign the reasons upon which I adopt the opinion,
that this court has not authority to issue the writ of habeas corpus now moved for. The prisoners are in
confinement under a commitment ordered by the supe. At February term, 1806, in this court.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Ex VATE
BoLLAND
A3 D
SWYART'
WO1T.

"'POv---

rior court of the district of Columbih, upon a charge of

This hotion has for its object their discharge or admission to bail, under an order of this court,
as circumstances upon investigation, shall appear to require. The attorney general having submitted the case
without opposition, I willLbriefly notice such objections
as occur to my mind against the arguments urged by the
counsel for the prisoners.

high treason.

Two questions were presented to the consideration of
the court.
1st. Does this, court! possess the power generally of
issuing the writ of habeas corpus P
2d. Does it retain that power in this case after the
commitment by the district court of Columbia?
In support of the afifimative of the first of these questions, two grounds were assumed.
i st. That the power to issue this writ was necessarily
incident to this court, as the supreme tribunal of the
union.
,dly. That it is given by statute, and the right to it
has been recognized by precedent.
On the first of these questions it is not necessary to
ponder long; thip court has uniformly maintained tht
it possesses no other jurisdiction or power than what is
given it by the constitution and laws of the United States,
or is necessarily incident to the exercise of those ;xprcssly given.
Our decision must then rest wholly on the due construction of the constitution and laws of the union, and
the effect of precedent, a subject which certainlypresents
much scope for close legal inquiry, but very little for the
play of a chastened imagination.
The first section of the third article of the constitution vests the judicial power of the United States in one
supreme court, and in such inferior courts as the doa-

FEBRUARY. 1807.
gress may from -time to time establish.

The second

section declares the extent of that power, and distin-

gVishes its jurisdiction into original and appellate.

EN PAUTZk
BOLLMAN

SW7AUTWOUT.

The originalJurisdictionof this court is restricted to

cases affecting ambassadors or other public ministers,
and consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party'.
In all other cases within the judicial powers of the
union, it can exercise only an appellate jurisdiction.
The former it possesses independently of the will of any
other constituent branch of the general government.
Without a violation of the constitution, that division of
our jurisdiction can neither be restricted or extended.
In the latter its powers are subjected to the will of the
legislature of the union, and it can exercise appellate
jurisdiction in no case, unless expressly authorised to do
so by the laws bf congress. If I understand the case-of
. kZrbury v. Mkadison, it maintains this doctrine in its
full extent. I cantot see how it could ever have been
controverted.
It is incumbent, then, I presume, on the counsel, in
order to maifitain their motion, to prove that the issuing
of this writ is an act within the power of this court in its
original jurisdiction,- or that, in its appellate - capacity,
the power is expressly given by the laws of congress.
This it is attempted to do, by the fourteenth and
thirty-third sections of the judiciary act, and the cases
of Hamilton and Butford, which occurred in this court,
the former in 1795, the latter in 1806.
How far their positiou is supported by that act and
those cases, will now be the subject of my inquiry.
With a very unnecessary display of energy and pathos,
this court has been imperatively called upon to extend
to the prisoners the benefit of precedent. I am far, very
far, from denying the general authority of adjudications.
Uniformity in decisions is often -as important as their
abstract justice. But I deny that a court is precluded
from the right or exempted from the necessity of examining into the correctness or consistency of its own
Vol, IV.

0

104
Lx

?.AKTE
BoLLM.if
SWART_

"wou7.

'-

*'~-

SUPPEME COURT U. S.'

decisions, or those of any other tribunal. I'I need precedent to support me in this doctrine, I will cite the example of' this court, which,. in the case of the United
Satds v. Moore, February, 1805, acknowledged that in
the case of the UnitedStates v. Sims, February, 1803, it
had exercised a jurisdiction it did not possess. Strange
indeed would be the doctrine, that an inadvertency once
committed by a court shall ever after impose on it the
necessity 6f persisting in its error. A case that cannot
be tested by principle is not law, and in a thousand instances have such cases been declared sr, by courts of
justice.
. The claim of the prisoners, as founded on precedent,
stands thus. The case of Hamilton was strikingly similar to the present. The prisoner had been committed
byrorder 6f the district judge on a charge of high treason.
A writ of harbeas corpus was issued by the supreme
court, and the prisoner bailed by their order.. The case
of Burford was also strictly parallel to the present ; but
the writ in the latter vase having been issued expressly
on the authority of the former, it is presumed that it
gives no additional force to the claim of the prisoners,
but must rest on the strength of'the case upon which the
court acted.
It appears to my mind that the case of Hamilton bears
upon the face of it evidence of its being entitled to little
consideration, and that the authority of it was annihilated
by the very- able decision in A'arbury v./.
Madison. In
this case it was decided that congress could not vest in
the supreme court any original powers beyond those to
which'this couri is restricted by the constitution. That
an act of congress vesting in this court the power to issue
a writ of mandamus in a case not within their original
juriidiction, and in which they were not called upon to
exercise an appellate jurisdiction, was unconstitutional
and void. In the case of Hamilton.the court does not
assig n the reasons on which it founds its decisions, but
it is fair to presume that they"adopted the idea which
appears to have been admitted by the district attorney in
his argument, to wit, that this court possessed a concrrnt power with the district court in admitting to bail.
Now a concurrent plower in such a base must be an ori-

FPRUARY, 1807,

LOS

ginalpower, and the principle in D1arbury v. Madison Ex ZAMTX
applies as much to the issuing of a habeas corpus'in a ]3OLLMAY
case-of treason, as to the issuing of a mandamus in a case sW.not more remote from the original jurisdiction of this

court. Having thus disembarrassed the question from
the effect of precedent, I proceed to consider the construction of the two sections of the judiciary act above

referred to.
It is-,necessary to premise that the case of treason is
one in which this court possesses neither original nor appellatejurisdiction. The 14th section of the judiciary

act, so far as it has relation to this case, is in these
words:-" All the beforementioned courts (bf which
this is one) of the United States shall have powtr to issue writs of scire facias, habeas corpus, and all other
writs not specially provided for by statute, which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdic-

tions, and agreeable to the principles and usagds of law."
I do not think it material to the opinion I entertain what
-construction is given to this sentence. If the power, to
issue the writs of scirefacias and habeas corus be not
restricted to the cases within the originalor appellate jurisdiction of this court, the case of Alarbury and Madison rejects the c:duse as unavailing ; and if it relate only
to cases within
jurisdiction, it does not extend to
.the case which their
is now moved for. But it is impossible
to give a sensible construction to that clause *without
taking the whole together; it consists of but one sentence, intimately connected throughout,- and has for its
object the creatiott of those powers which probably would
have vested in the respective courts without statutory
provision, as incident to the exercise of their jursdiction. To givd to this clause the construction coptended
for by counsel, would be to suppose that the legislature
would .commit the absurd act of granting the power of
issuing the writs of-scirefacias and habeas corpus, without an object or end to be answered by them. This idea
is not a little supported by the neit sutcceeding clause, in
which-a power is vested in the individual judges to issue
the writ of habeas corpus, expressly for the purpose of
inquiring into the cause of commitment. That part of
the thirty-third section of the judiciary act which relates to this. subject is in the fW~owing words'--".And

v.ouT.

106
Ex

VAiurr

BOLLMAN
AXD

Sw.aiRT-

woUT.

SUPREME COURT ty. S.

upon all arrests in criminal cases, bail shall be admitted
except where the punishment is death, in which cases it
shall not be admitted but, by the supreme or a circuit
court, or by a-justice of the supreme court, or a judga
Sof a district court, who shall exercise their discretion
therein, regarding the.nature and circumstances of the
offpnce, and of the evidence, and usage of law."
*

On considering this act it cannot be denied that if it
vests any power at all, it is an original power. '1It Is
the essential criterion of appellate jurisdiction, thlat it
revises and corrects the proceedings iii n cause already
instituted." I quote the words of the courtin the case of
Marbury v. MTfadison.
And bd far is this clause from giving a power to revise
and correct, that it actually vests in the district judge the
same latitude 'of discretion by the same words that it
communicates to this court. And without.derogating
from a respectability which I must feel as deep an interest in maintaining as any member of this court, I must
believe that the district court, or any individual district
judge, possesses the same power'to revise our decision,
that we do to revise theirs; nay, inore, for the powers
witt which they may be vested. are hot' so particularly
iimited and divided by the constitution as ours are.
Should we perform an act which -according to our own
principle. we cannot be vested with power to perform,
what obligation would any other court orjudge be under
to.respect that act ? There is one mode of construing
this, clause, which appears to me to remove all ambiguity,
and to render every part of it sensible and operative.
By the consent of his sovereign, a foreign minister may
be subjected to the laws of the state near which he resides. This court may then be called upon to exerciso
an original criminal jurisdiction. If the power of this
court to bail be confined to that one case, reddendo singulet
.sinulis,if the power of the several courts and indi.,
vidual judges be referred to their respective jurisdic,
tions, all clashing and interference of power ceases, and
sufficient means of redress are still held out to the citizen, if deprived of his liberty ; and this surely must
have been the intention of the legislature. It never could
have been contemplated that the'mandates of this court

FEflRUARY, 1807.

107

should be borne to the extremities of the states, to con- Ex v,*T2
vene before them every prisoner who may be committed BoLLANA
-nder the authority df the general government. Let it S AN be re*Membered that I am not disputing the power of the
wouT.
individual judges who compose this court to issue the

writ of habeas corpus. This application is not made to
us as .at chambers, but to us as holding the supreme
court of the United Statel-d- creature of the constitution, and possessing no greater capacity to receive jurisdiction or power than the constitution gives it. We
may in our individual capacities, or in our circuit courts,
be susceptible of powers merely ministerial, and not inconsistent with our judicial characters, for on that point
the constitution has left much to construction ; and on
such an application the only doubt that could be entertained would be, whethr we can exercise any powerbeyond thelimits of our respective circuits. On this question I will not now give an opinion. One more, observation, and I dismissthe subject.
In the case of Burford I was one of the members who
constituted the court. I owe it to my own consistency
to declare that the court were then apprized of my objections to the issuing of the writ of habeas corpus. I
did not then comment at large on the reasons which influenced my opinion, and the cause was this : The gentleman who argued that cause confined himself strictly
to those considerations which ought alone to influence
the decisions of this court. No popular observations on
the necessity of protecting the citizen from executive
oppression, no animated address calculated to enlist the
passions or prejudices of an audience in defence of his
motion, imposed on me the necessity of vindicating my
opinion. I submitted in silent deference to the decision
of my brethren.
In this case I feel myself much relieved from the painful sensation resulting from the necessity of dissenting
from the majority of the court, in being supported by.
the opinion of one of my brethren, who is prevented by
indisposition from attending.

108
EX PAUTE
BOLLMAN
AND
SWARTWOUT.

\

'

SUPRiME COURV U. S,
Febrwry:16.

The' marshal of the district of Columbia, having. rn
turned, upon the habeas corpua, that he detained the
by virtue of the before recited order of the cirn
cult court of that district,

.prisoners

C. Lee, now moved that they should be discharged;
or at least admitted'to bail; and contended,
1. That from the record of the circuit court, and upon the face of the proceedings the. imprisonment waa
illegal and oppressive ; and
2. That if the commitment was not illegal upon its
face, yet as the order of the court refers to the testimony on which it was founded, it will appear to be illegal
upon the whole proceedings.
The" commitment is not for trial at any particular
time, before any particular court, nor in any. particular
place.
-bythe Sdarticleof theconstitutionof the tUnitedStates,
the trial of crimes shall be in the state where they shall
have been committed; but when not committed in any
state, the trial shall be at such place or places as congress may by law have directed. So by the 29th section
of thejudiciaryact'of 1789, vol. 1.p. 61. in all cases
punlishable with death, the trial shall be had'in the county where the offence was committed, or where that cannot lie done without great inconvenience, twelve'petit
jurors at least shall be summoned from thence ; and by
the 33d section of the same act, p. 73. offenders are to
be arrested and..imprisoned or bailed' for trial before
such court of the United States, as by that act has cognizance of the ofence; and copies of'the.process shall be
returned as speedily as may be into the clerk's office of
such court, together with tfe recdgtfizances 'of'the witnesses for their appearance to testify in the case, and if
the commitment be in a district otherithan'that in which
the offence is to be tried, it shall be the duty of'the judge
of the district where the delinquent is imprison~d to issue a *arrant for the rembval of the. offender to thedistrict in which the trial is to be had.

Fyn ldjARY, 180r.

409

hese are provisions for a speedy and fair trial, in
obedience to the constitution; for it has always been
considered as necessary to a fair trial that it should be
-where the witnesses may easily attend; and where the
party is known.
The 6th amendment to the constitution provides that the accused " shall enjoy the right to
"a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the
"state and district, wherein the crime shall have been
"committed, which district shall have been previously
" ascertained bylaw," &c.
By the-act for the punishment of certain crimes, section.8. vol.- 1. p. I03. it is enacted that " the trial of
". crimes committed" " in any place out of the jurisdic.
"1tion of any particular state shall.be in the district where
" the, offender is apprehended, or into which he may
" first be brought."
By the English habea&corpus act, whose provisions
are considered as extending to cases even out of The at",
the prisoner may petition the court for trial at the first
term, and if not then tried he is entitled to bail of course.
If the commitment is in a district in which he cannot be
tried, he will not be entitled to this privilege, for he is
still to be removed to the place of trial. Hence it is
necessary that the commitment should state the court
.before whom the trial is to be had. It is also necessary
in order that the district judge may know where to send
him. No person but the Aistrict judge has authority to
send him to. the place of trial, and if the commitment be
not made by the district judge, it is impossible that he
should judicially know where to send him, unless the
flace of trial be Pientonea in the warrant of commitment.
It is also necessary. that the accused may know where
to collect his witnesses together.
The order of commitment ought also to have stated
more particularly the overt act of treason. It is too
vague and uncertain.
3. The testimony before the circuit court did notshow.
probablecause.

Ex xAzz
AND
BoLLx
WAUT.
WoUT.

210
ZZ FAIZ

BoLLMA&
SWARt

wouT.

SUPREME COUT V. S.

By the 4th amendment to the constituton it it decli;-

red "that the right of -the people to be secure in their

" persons, houses, papers and effects, against unreason"able searches and seizures, shall not be violated ; and
,Yno warrants shall issue, but upion PROD ALE CA.M
"supported by oath or affirmation."

All the facts necessary to cqnstitute thisprobable caus6
must appear upon oath or affirmation. It is not necessary indeed that there should be positive proof of every
fact constituting the offence ; but nothing can be taken
into the estimate, when forming an opinion of the probability that the fact was committed by the person char.
ged, but facts supported b~y oath or affirmation.
No belief o1 a tact tending to show probable cause,
no hearsay) no opinion of any person however high in
ofice, respecting the guilt of the person accused, can be
received in evidence on this examination.
The question then. is whether these affidavits exhibit
legal proof of probable cause.
If the testimony be vague or ambiguous as to the person, or as to the offence, the court vill apply the maxim
of law, that every person is to be adjudged innocent unless proved to be guilty.
The facts stated in general Wilkinsonts two affidavits
of the 14th aid 26th of December, consist of the letters
of col. Burr, the-declarations of Swartwout, and the belief of general Wilkinson. Neither the letters of col.
Burr, nor the declarations of Swartwvout, contain any
ground for probable cause to believr that the prisoners,
or either of them is guilty of treason ; and gen'etal Wilkinson's belief, as he himself states, is founded upon
those facts.
MAfr. Lee, went into a minute examination, of those
affidavits, to satisfy the court that the facts stated in
them could at most prove an intent to set on foot an expedition against Mexico, in case of a war between this
country and Spain. He contended that if the object was
such an expedition at all events, and if they had intend-

ME.BRUARY, 1807.

ll.

ed to force their way through the United States, for the Ex WATr
AND
purpose of attacking Mexico, and even if they had done BOLLMtA
so; they would not have- been guilty of treason, but sw,,uwouT.
merely of lawless violence. Even if they had plundered the bank at New-Orleans, or any private property,
or had'seized arms and vessels, the property of individuals, it would have been robbery, but-not treason.
But the circumstance that no place of trial can be
designated, is a sufficient reason for admitting them to
bail They certainly cannot be tried here, for it is not
contended that they have here committed any offence ;
and this is not the district in which they were first apprehended or brought., They were seized by orders of
a military officer 2,000 miles from this place, without any
process of law or legal authority, and sent here to be
disposed of by, the Executive. They have been committed for trial, not before any court, or in any particular district, and their imprisonment will be perpetual,
unless government can find out when and where the offence was committed, and devise some means of transmitting them to the place of trial.
M21r. Lee attempted to discredit the affidavits of General Wilkinson by the circumstance that they were made,
as he contended, to vindicate and justify the imegl
seizure and transportation of the prisoners. He contended also tfiat those affidavits ought to be totally discarded, because the oath upon which a warrant of arrest or commitment is to be grounded, must be made before the magistrate- wlto is about to issue the warrant.
He must be satisfied of the probable cause. The laws
were open in New-Orleans. General Wilkinson might
have gone before a justice of peace there and.made his
oath, and obtained a Warrant to, arrest the .prisoners.
There was no hecessity to proce.ed in this illegal .ind
unprecedented manner.
F. S. Key, on the same side.
Unless this court can look behind the order for commitment, and examine-the grounds upon which it was
made, the writ of habeas corpus will be wholly useless;
for every court or magistrate who commits a person to
Vol. IV.

P

112

E-

WA T

"BOLLMAX

SUPIREME COURT U. S.

prIson, will take care to cover himself under the strict

forms of law.

AND

SWAPTWOUT.

The constitution declares that treason against the

~ United States shall consist only in levying war againt

them i or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid
and comfort. - An adherence to rebels, 'is not an adherence to an enemy within the meaning of the constitution. Hence if
the prisoners are guilty, it must be of levying war against
the United States.
In England The books speak of two kinds of levying
of war ;-direct and conetructivrc-(East's r. Law, 6Z.)
But there is only one kind in this country; and ought not
to be in England.
By using the word "only" the 'constitution meant
to take away all pretence of constructive treason. Every
man is to answer for his own acts only. If 100 men
consp ,re, and only 50 actually levy war, the lattqr only
are g-filty as principals.
,
And what reason can be given why there should not
b6 the same distinction between prindipall and accessory
in treason, as in other crimes. In a republican government, whose basis is the affection of the.people, it is unnecessary' to guard against offences of 'this -kind with
the same vigilance as in a monarchy or a despotism
whose foundation is fear. .(4,Tucker's Bi.. 4,ppndiv, p.
19.) But if this construction of the cobstitution be not
correct, and if the English authorities are to be considered in full force, it must be shewn,
1st. That war has been levied-and
2d. That the prisoners are contederates in that war.
The affidavits of General Wilkinson are not authenticated so as to make them evidence. It does not appear.
that an oath was administered to him. The act to prescribe the -mode of authenticating public acts, records
and judicial proceedings, &c, is extended to the territo-

FERUARY,- 1807.

ry if Orlesa, by the act erecting.tiat territory. (Pql.It.
p. 117.). And even if this be not strictly a judicial proceeding, yet'it is within the meaning of that act.

Ex

PAXVZ

BOLLJAU
IAUT

Tiour.

The. certificate of the secretary of state* only shows
that it appears by tl-official returns fo his office, that J.
Carrick and George Pollock had been appointed justices bf the peace for the county of Orleans ; but not that
they had taken the oaths necessary to qualify them to
act.
But if these affidavits are examinable, they do not
.lhow any act of treason. They prove no assemblage of
men, no -military array. There is not a tittle of evidence
that any two men have been seen together with treasonable intent, whether armed or not. The supposed letter from CoL Burr, speaks indeed of choice spirits, but
he does not tell us they are invisible spirits.
The ffidv;,iis of Made and Wilson relate only to runiouts derived from General Wilkinson, whose business
It was, if he could get such rumodrs thre, by no other
means, to create them himself.
I The territory, of Orleans, if it was to be revolutionlzed, mnight be revolutionized withot levying war against
the United States.
There isno evidence that the prisoners knew that doL
IPkrr had any treasonable prbjectoin view. Even if he
had slich viewsf he might have held out to them, as he
did to others, only the Spanish expedition.
Again, the bench-wairant issued in 'this case for the
arrest of the prisoners was illegal. The court has no
authority to issue a beach-warrant, but upon a presentment by a grand jury, or for an offence cbmmitted in
h e secretary of state of the Unted Statesbad certified under the

seal of his office, that George Pollock and James Carrick, were appointedjustices ofthe peace for the countyof Orleans, in the terri" ry of Orleans, in the year 1805, as appears by the official returns
of the secretary of the said territory, ,6remainingin the offce of
this department."

SUPREME COURT 'U. S.
Ex

PARTn

BOLLASWART-

yWOUT.

the presence of the court. It is not a power inherent in

the court, nor given by any law. The act of congress
only gives to a judge out of court, or to a jstice of peace,
the power of arresting offenders. And it is a power in¢consistent with a fair trial, because the court would
thereby have prejudged the case, and decided upon the
guilt of the prisoner. No such practice is khiown in
Maryland, under whose laws the court below was acting.
February 17.
zones, attorney for the district of Columbia, mentioned to the court, that Hiort, being better prepared upon points of practice, w6uld make some observations in
support of the form of the commitment.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. 'Iunderstand the clear opinion
of the court to be, (if I mistake it my brethren will cor
rect me,) that it is unimportant whether the commitment
be regular in point of form or not; for this court,
having gone into an examination of the evidence upon
which the commitment was grounded, will proceed to
do that which the court below ought to have done.

Rodney, Attorney General.
The affidavit of General Wilkinson is sufficiently authenticated. The'justices of peace in the territory' of
Orleans are officers of the United States-they are appointed.by the governor of the, territory, who is appointed by the President of the United States ; and the se.
cretary of the territory is bound by law to transmit copies
of all the executive proceedings of the governor of the
territory every aix months to the President of the United
States, (Laws U. S. vol. 7.p. 112, 113.) All the officers of the United States are bound to take notice of
each other.
"The act of. congress respecting authentication of records; &c.- is cumulative only. It does not repeal any
former
law.
I There
is some weight in the objection that the oath
ought to be made before the magistrate who issues the

FEBRUARY, -1to7.

115

But one magistrate is as competent w ano- Ex rAnrwarrant.
to administer the ath, The constution is silent BOLLHAZ
ther
dihn subject; and if it be taken before a person cornS"
wouT.
petent to Administer it, it satisfies the provisign of the
.constitution. How else could a criminal be arrested-in 'ov'-m'.'
onem-part of the United States, when the witness lived ip
another ?
,olt is true that none of the evidence now offered would
be competent on the trial; nor even if it appearedin a
proper shape, would it be sufficient to convict the prisoners. But the question is whether, in this incipient
stage of the prosecution, it is not sufficientto show probable cause.
Thd dqpedition against Mexico would notbe treason,
unless it was to be accomplished by means which in
themselves would amount to treason. Btit if the con,stituted authorities of the United States should.be suppressed but for. one hour, and the territory of Orleans
revolutionized but for a moment, it would be treason.
,Whatwould be.'treasou by. adherinig to an enemy, if
done towards-a rebel will be alevying of war. (3 Wd.sor.'e
Lecturvs,' 105. 4 BI. -Com.92.)
In treason. aUaae "principals. There are no accessories. It has been argued, (and the iespectable authority ofJudg Tuker,is cited,) that none are principals-but
those present at the.treasonable act. The argument may.
have some. weight,' but it is a point at least. doubtfob
.And therefor ough o;be lef to be decided,on the triaL
Itis true that wo.can not at present say -exactly -whuen
midnrhere the overt act of levying war was committed,
but from the aidavits we .thik it fair to infer that an
army has been.actually levied and arrayqd. The declaration of one of the.prisoners was, that Col. Burr "was
levying an armed body of 1,000 men." How the fact
has turned out to-be since we do not know ; and it is also
true thatwe do not know that any men have been seen
collected in military array. But Dr. Bollinan informed
- General Wilkinson that he had seen a letter from Col.
Burr, in -which he -says that-he should be at Natchez

1.16

SUPREMIE COhRT V. S.

Ek PARTE with'2 000 tnen on the 20th of Decelibtrj and thahe
BOLLYAN
would be folh-ed by 4,000 more, and that he could have
AND
SWART'WOUT.

\u

m

raised 12;000, as easily as'6,000, but. he did not think
that numbe necessary. If'Col. Burr .was actually levyzing an armed body of men, if b expected to be at Natches on the 20th of Dceimber with' od00%
and caltulated-upon being followed by 4,000 more, and if ha found
it so easy to raise troops, is there not a moral certainty
that some troops 2t'least have- been raited'and emb.
died.
It mAy be admitted that General'Wilkinson wab interested to make the worst of the story, but the doclaratikns of the'prisoners themselves are sufficient.

,,yone&, attorney for the district of Columbia
half of the prosecution.o

on be-

As to the objection that the commitment tildat be
-fortrial in some court having jurisdiction over the, offence.

It was uncertain whether any, and if aiiy; what place
was prescribed, for the trial of this offence. Bt an t
court of the United States had jurisdiction to commi
for trial.' By the act of congress fothe punishment of
ciriain crimes, &c. vol. 1. p. 103. a. 8. " the .trid of
crimes c6ohmitted on the high selas, -or in an-yplace out
of the jurisdiction of any particular state, shall be in
the district where the'offender is apprehended, or into
which he rway be first' brought," Although the first
liart of the secti'n..speek iof
certain crimes committed
" upon the high seas, or in any river,, haven, bason or
bay, 'out of tile juilsdiction of any particular otate,"
yet the" las clause of the sectii-n is general and'h' Its
terms applies to the trial.of all crimes-committed out of
the jurisdiction of any particular. stite. This act of
congress is the only exercise of the provision'of the 3d
article of the constitution' respecting crimeg committed,
not within iny state.. Unless this act of congress fixes
the place of trial, there is no place prescribed, either
by the law or the constitution, and the trial may as ivell
be in the district of Columbia as elsewhere,. But if
this act of congress does fix the place, then, it is ob-

FEBRUARY, 18O '.

L7

jected, that this district is neither that inwhich the prisoners were. apprehended, nor that into which they
were first brought.

EX

VANT,1

BOLLXA.

SAND.

WOUT.

The answer is; that the act of congress means the
district iu which-they shall b legally apprehended, that
-is, arrested -by process of law. It 'could not mean a
mere mhilitary seizure. But whether the cdurt below
hador hgd nbt jurisdiction to try the prisoners, it clearly had jurisdiction to 'commit them; anaI if their commitment be irregular, this court will say how they ought
to be committed. Laws U. S. vol. 1. p. 73. s. 33.
It is objected that, although the judges and justices
-have power to arrest, yet the courts have not, and
therefore cannot issue a bench-warrant blit, upo4 the
presentment of a grand jury, or for an offence ommitted in the presence of the court. And 'the practice
of Maryland is cited. But it is stated that at Montgomery. Court, in Maryland, very lately a venemble
and ancient judge of that court did issue a bench-wfirrant for an offence not presented by the grand ury, nor
.committed in presence of the court.*
It is not neceisary that the commitment should Ptate'
the place of trial, nor that they.are committed for trial,
-If zt the ,time of commitment it be -unCertain where
they ought to be tried, they maybe committed generally#
urdil discharged by due course of law. In England it
is only necessary that the commitn)ent should b to
some jail in England. 2 Hawk. P. C. 120. b. 2. c. I6.
s. 18.
As to the authentication of the affidavits of General
Wilkinson, it being shewn that Pollock and Carrick
were duly appointed justices of -the peace,. and having
t F. S. 1rey stated that he was present at the transaction alluded
to, The facts were, that after the court adjourned, and as the
judge was ging 'out of the court-house, a man whio had been wait.
ing in the yard assaulted a lawyer, in the presence or the judge,
for disrespectul language used by the lawyer in arguing a cause.
The judge considlered it as a contempt of court, and therefbre directed ahench-warrant to issne.

l

.SJUPRMM COURT U. S.,

undertaked to-act as sudhit is to be pres~tme that they,

EXPART
13OLLMAN
AND

have taken the necessary oaths.

SwA.kR-

y

It is dmitted that the constitution,has prevented,
manyquestions ag to the doctrine, of treason. The intention of having a constitutional definition 6f the
crime, was to put it out of the power of congress to
invent treasons. But it was impossible to define *&hat
should in every, case be 'deemed a levying of war. It
is a question of fact to be decided by.the jury from-all
the "circumstances.

WOUT.

"

-

Warlike array is not necessary. It is only a circujnstafnce. .1 -East'8,Cr,4aw,, 66. According to the En-'
gtish books, a direct levying of war, is a war directly
against the perion of the king. A constructive levying
of warJs war against -the government.
If meni have been levied, and arms provided, -vitha
treaso3nable, intent, this is a sufficient levying of war,
.without warlike array.
The affidavit of General Eat6n 6stablishes the treasonable intent in Colonel Burr. The question, then) is,
whether that ihtent, or,a knowledge' of that intent, can
be brought home to, the prisoners? Mr. Joned hero
weit ,into an argument to. show the connexion of thb
-prisoners with Colonel Burr, and, their knowledge of
his projects.. He observed that 'his argument, on a
former occasion, respecting the president's message to
congress, had been' misunderstood. A state of war 1s
a matter of public notoriety, and he had considered the
president's message as evidence of that notoriety, it
beiig a communication from the supreme executive, in
the course of his duty, to that department of'government which alone could decide on the state of war.
-He contended that no specific number, no sufficiency
o'f force to accomplish the object, was necessary to con'stitute treason..
'If scldiers are levied and' officered," with a treasonable intent, and equipments prepared, so that they can
readil lay hold of their arms ; although no men pre

FE WARY, 1107

.19

actually -armed, although oily fi7ve men in a detachment

EX PAnTZ

shouf march to assemble at a place of rendezvous, and

DoLLM4%Yr

althoughthere should be no warlike array, yet it would
be tieason. -Any thing which amounts to setting on
fobt a -military expeditior4 with intent to levy war
against the United Siatesi is treason.

Srw^ .

The distinction between those who are present at the
overt act of levyin' war, and those who are confedeiated, adhering, acting and assisting, giving aid and
comfort, is contrary to all analogy. In treason, all are

principals.

ItL mur4er, if two conspire, and one is acting and
assisting at such a distance as to give aid, he is equally
guilty with himwho gave the wound.
It has been -insinuated that General Wilkinson is to
be considered as particeps criminis. If that were the
case, it would be no disqualification of his testimony.
Tr6ason is a greater crime in republics than in monarchies, and ought to-be more severely punished.
Harper, in reply, congratulated, his country on the
triutnph of correct principles, in the abandonment, on
-the part-of the prosecution, of the dangerous doctrine,
that executive messages were to be received as evidence.
in a criminal prosecution.
i:YMes. The sole purpose for which we introduced
the president's message, was to sngow that the assemblage of.a military force by Colonel Burr was a matter
of notoriety. We did not altempt or.wish-o introduce
it as direct evidence.]
Harper. To use an executive message in a court-of
justice, for any purpose .f- proof whatever, so as to
aid in the commitment of a citizen under a criminal
accusation; to introduce it as evidence .of any fact;
(of notoriety, for. instance, which is a fact ;) - is to give
it the effect of testirmony, axnd is a direct violation of the
constittton.
VOL IV.-

0

wox.

1 0",

SUPREME COURT IT. S

EX PARTE
BoLAAN
AVD

We object'to the translation of the ciphered letter
contained in General Wilkinson's affidavits, being ad-

SWART-

Initted as evidence, because General Wilkinson has not
sworn that it is a- true translation, nor sent the original,
-with the key, s'o that ihe court can have a correct translation made. Nor is it proved that the original was
written by Colonel Burr, or by his direction, .nor that
the prisoners were acquainted with its contents.

WOUT.

Another objection to the affidavits is, that they were
not made for the purpose of procuring an arrest. They
were not made before the judicial oficer-on whose warrant the proceediings of the court were to be founded;
and who would have beerx bound to cross-examine the
witness, to sift.the facts, and to judge how far they were
proved, and how far they were sufficient to justify the
proceedings. But, after a militaryarrest, the affidavits
are drawn up by the author of the arrest, without crossexamination or inquiry, and Veie sworn to by him, as
the-justification of his conduct. Tke persons whom he
has thus arrested are sent to a distant part of the country, ind these affidavits are sent after them, to operate
as the ground of their commitment and detentioni No
person can lawfully be committed on testimony so taken.
In cases of arrests and commitments, the general rules
. of evidence are no further to be departed from than
the necessity of the case requires. • On application to a
*magistrate for a warrant of arrest, the evidence must,
necessarily be exparte, hut no other departui'e from the
common, rules of evidence is justifiable, because not
necessary. It is a general rule of law respecting testimony, that.it shall be taken before the tribunal which
is to act upon it, or under the direction of that tribunal
that the person who is to decide, shall also inquire
that the inquiry shall not be before one tribunal, and the
judgment pr onounced by another. This rule, so important to the safety of persons accused, is equally apr.icable to-arrests and commitments, as to trials, and
should therefore be equally observed. The party arrested and brought.before the magistrate for commitment, has a right o be confronted with his accuser,
and to cross-examine the witnesses produced against
him, and by that means to explain circumstances which,
St.
firstview, might criminate him. But if
the practice

FEBRUARY, 18M~.

1

which is attempted in this cise .be sanctioned bythis Ex PAUaT
court,; if a military officer, or any other person, is to BOLuAN
he permitted to seize a in, and send him 2,000 miles S.
wouT.
from the place of arrest, and*from the place of the alleged' transaction, and to send after hini an ex parte .' Y'affidavit as the ground of his subsequent coximitment,
the great security provided -by lgw for the protection of
innocence and liberty is broken down.
Mr. Harperthen went into a minute examination of
the contents 'of- the affidavits, and conteided that, if
they could be considered hy this court as evidence, they
did not prove that treason had been committed, nor that
the prisoners had participated in any crime or offence
whatever.
Fcbniarq 18.
Martin, on the same side.
The order for the commitment was erroneous in directing the prisoners to be committed to the prison of
the court. It ought to have been to the marshal. I
SYalh. 343. Bethel's case. 5AMod. 19. S. C.
-This c ourt cannot reipnmd them, or commit tnem,
upbn .this habeas corpus, for any crime but -that for
'Vhi&'ctiey were committed in the court below; .and
can only commit them for trial before some court. The
only pow~er given by the 3d section of the judiciary
act, is to cause offenders tP" be arrested4 And imprisoned or bailed, as the case rpay be, for'trial6efore suct4
court. of the.United States, as by this act has cognizance of the offence." The place of trial is to be decided by the place where the offence was committed.
The act of congress for the punishment of cer,.n
erimes, s. 8. voL 1.p. 103. does piot apply to crimes
committed in any territory of the United States iii
which there are courts of the United States. having
cognizance of-the offence. "It applies only to offences
committed upon'the 11high seas, or in any river, haven,
bason, or 4.ay, out of the jurisdiction of any .particular
state."

SUPREME. COURT V. S..
Ex

?ARTE
BOLL31AN
AND

SWART-

-Wohur

".€"/

Thd courts of the United States- eiected io the terri-

tory of Orleans are competent to try the offenue of

.treason. against the United States committed within that
'territory.

By the 8th sectioA-of the- act of congress of

~26thl'March, 1804, ,vol. 7. p.. 174 erecting the territory

of Orleans, a aistrict court -of the United States is
established therein, having all the original powers and
jurisdiction'of a circuit court ,of the United States.
And by the same act, the "act for thepunishment of
certain crimes against the UnitedStates," is extended-to

that territory.

I It was ,therefore a wantgi ind unnecessary exertion
of arbitrary power to send the prisoners here, whore
they cannot be tried. If there is any probability that
a crime was committed by the 'prisoners, it is equally
prdbabfe that it was committed in-the territory of Orleans. 'It is, at all events certain that it was not committed here. The word apprehended, in the act of
congress, cannot .mean a legal arrest-only. If it did,
it would be in the power of a -military.commander to
aei~e a'man, 'grid apipoint the tribuna vby,
which he shall
b~e tried.
If it is the ltty of this "court to commit the prsoners: for trial, it is equally its duty to bind over the witnresses to appear at the time and place of trial :to testify'
in thi case, and to return copies. of the process, together with the recognizances ,c-f the .witnesses, to the'
office of the clerk of the court having cognizance of the
,offence. This shows that, upon every commitinent,.the
witnessed must be-in the presence of th6 tribunal corn.
shitting.
This court cannot commit, unless they first aS'certani
in wihat court the trial. is to be had.
'There is no legal evidence that General Wilkinson
tevr made oath to-his statement, The certificate of the
secretary is only that it appears. by the return of the
4ecretaty of the territqry of' Orleans, that Pollock ind

Carrick wlerejusticis. 'A copy of that retu'n ought to
fie certified.

FEBRUARY, 1807

123

February 19.
The court, not having made up an opinion, admitted
the prisoners to bail until the next day. The Chief
Justice stated that the court had difficulty upon two
points, viz.
1. Whether the affidavit of General Wilkinson was
evidence admissible in this stage of the prosecutior;
and,
2. Whether, if admissible, his statement of the contents of the substance of a letter, when the original was,
in his possession, was such evidence as the court ought
to noutice.
If the counsel had any authorities on there points,
the court said they would hear them.
.Febrtiary20.
The thief Justice asked if the counsel had found any
authorities on the points mentioned yesterday.
Rodney, Attorney General, 'said he had not; but he
relied on general principles.
Y. S. Key cited 3 7 R. r0. The King v. The Inhabitantsof
-Eriswell,where t*he principal questiofi was,
whether the ex parte examination of the pauper taken
before two justices, to whom no application was 'made
for a removal of the pauper, was good evidence befora
two otberjustices, five years afterwards, upon an application for his removal, the pauper having in, the mean
time become insane. The judges of the court of king's
bdnch were-equally divided. But Grose, J.said, " nothing can be more unjust, than that a person should be
bound by evidence which he is not permitted to hear."
" The common law did not permit a person accused to
be affected by an examination taken in his absence, because he could'not cross-examine." Buller, J. who
was opposed to Grose, upon the principal questionl, admitted, "that if-the taking the examination were pot
a judicial act, but was merely coram non judice, it is

Ex P,&,,
sAU

-woad.

I4

SUPREME COURT U. S.

not evidence," and that " it must be a judicial act at
nb, aut'iT the tim8 it was taken, or cannot become so at all."

EX PA.T"
AN D
SWArT-

WOUT.
.the

Lord,. Kenyon, Ch. J. said the two justices who took
examination "were not applied to for the purpose
of making an order of removal ; the overseers called
upon them f5r no other purpose than to examine the
pauper; all the proceedings, therefore, were extrajudibial; and the examination on oath might just as well
have been taken before the parish clerk, and would
have been as much entitled to redit as this."
So in this case we say that, as General Wilkinson, did
not apply to justices Carrick and Pollock for a warrant
to arrest Dr. Bollman and Mr. Swartwout, and as he
did not make the affidavit for the purpose of obtaining
from them suih warrants, the' whole proceedings before
those justices were extrajudicial. The affidavits are
i
not such as would support an.indictmbnt, if false.
the language of Lord Kenyon, they deserve no m6re
credit than if they had been made before the parish
clerk. If the affidavit be a judicial proceeding, it
ought to be authen;icated according to the act of con,
gress. If it be not a judicial proceeding, it is not evi-.
dence.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. If a person makes an affidavit
before a magistrate to obtain a warrant of arrest, such'
affidvit must necessarily be exparte. But how is it
on a motion to commit, after the person is taken ? Must
not the commitment be upon testimony given in presence
of the prisoner.?

Rodney, Attorney, General. The first affidavit would
.be sufficient, unless disproved or explained by the prisoner on his examination.
Harper. The necessity of the case is the only 'ground
of an exception to the general rule of evidence; and
that necessity ceages when the party is taken.

FEBRUARY, 1807.

125

.February21.
MARSHALL, Ch.
coUrt.

J.:

delivered the opinion of the

The prisoners having been brought before this court
on a writ of habeas corpus, and the testimony on which
they were committed having been fully examined and
attentively considered, the court is now to declare the
law upon their case.
This being a mere inquiry, which, without deciding
upon guilt, precedes the institution of a prosecution, the
question to be determined is, whtther the accused shall
*be discharged or held to trial; and if the latter, in what
place they are to be tried, and whether they shall be confined or admitted to bail. 41 If," says a very learned and
accurate'commentator, "upon this inquiry it manifestly
appears that no such crime ha, been committed, or thAt
the suspicion entertained of the prisoner was wholly
.groundless, in such cases only is it-lawful totally to discharge him. Otherwise he must either be committed to
prison or give bail."
The specific charge brought against the prisoners is
treason in levying war against the United States.
As there is no crime which can more excite and agitate
the passions of men than creason, no charge demands
more from the tribtinal before which it. is made a deliberate- and temperate inquiry. Whether this inquiry
b' directed to the fact or to the law, none can be mora
solemn, none more impbrtant to the citizen or to the
government ; none can more afTect the safety.of both.
To prevent the possibility of thoke calamities which
result from the extension of treason to offences of itinor
* The other judges present were Chae, IVathington and yoalut.
The opinion of Chief Justice Mlarrlballupon the trial of Cal Burr,
in the circuit court at Aichnwnd, in the summer of 1807, elucidates
and explains some p.ssages in this opinion which.Lvere supposed to
be in some degree doubtful. For this opinion see Appendix (B).

P,,TZ
EX
BoLLdtr
Sw"AT.
w OUT.

-126

.xTAR'r

BOLL
A,
ANqD

$*ARTWOUT.

SURnMEbounrUR "l

.

importance, that great fundaiaintal law which defineh
and'limits the 'various departments of our 'government
has given a rileon ihe subject botb to thelegislatu're anid
be permitted
thp courts of America, which neither ~cat
to transcend.'
"Treason against the United States shall consist only
in levying'war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort."
To cdnstitute that specific crime for which the prisoners now before thecourt havebeen comfnitted,'war must
be actually levied against the Uiited States. Hovever
flagitious may be the crime of conspiring to subvert by
force the government of our coulitry, such conspiracyis
not treason. To conspire to levy war, and actualy to
levy war,.are distinct odTeuces. The first must be brought
.into operation by the assemblage of men for a purpose
treasonable in itself, or the fact of levying war cannot
have been comrmtitted. So far has this principle been carried, that, in a case reported by Ventris, and mentioned
in some'm'odern treatises on criminal law, it'has beer
determined that the actual enllstment of men to serve
against the government does not Amount to levying war.
It is true that i-that casd the soldiers enlisted were to
serve without the realm, but they were enlisted Within
it, and if the enlistment for a treasonable purpose could
amount to levying war, then war had been acthually
levied.
It is not the intention of the court to say that no individual can be guilty of this crime who has not appeared in arms against his country. On the contrary, if ivar'
be actually levied, that is, if a body of men be tuttually
assembled for the purpose of effecting by fdrce it treasonable purpose, all those who perform any part, however
minute, or however remote from the scene of action, and
who are actually leagued in the general conspitacy, arb
to be considered as traitors. But there must be an actual assembling of men for the treasonable purpose, to
constitute'a levying of war.
Crimes so atrocious as those which have for tIeir object the subyersion by violence of those lauvs and those

SFEBRUAIY,*ISOP .

127

institutions whieh hzive beqn ordained in order to secure Ex PXnUi
the peace and happiness of society, are not to escape BOLLiUAiz
punishniefit because they have not ripened into treason.,
wAnTwour.
.The wisdom of the lcgislature is competent to provide
for theecase ; iad the framers of our constitfilon, who
not only defined and limited the crime, but with jealous
circumspection attempted to protect their limitation by
prov'idifig.that no'person should be convicted.of it, unless on the testniony of two witnesses to 'the same overt
act, or on confession in open court, must-have conceived
it more Safe that punishment in suchi cases should be ordained by general laws, formed upon deliberaion, under the inf'ence of no-resentMents, and without know.
ingon whom they were to operate,*thaa that it should bo
inflited under the influefice of those passions which the
occasion seldom fails to excite, and which a flexible definition of the crime, ,r a construction whidh would rendet
it flexible, night bring into opirati'on. It is therefore
more safe as well as mord consonant to the principles of
our constitution, that the crime of tieason should not be
extinded by construction to doubtfuf cases ; and that
dimes not clearly witlni the constitutional definition)
should receive such punishment as the legislature in its
wisdom may provide.
To complete the crime of levying war against the
United States, there niust be an actual assemblage of'
ineis forthe'prpose of executing a treasonable debign.
In the case now before the court, a design to oyertur
the goyernment of the United States in New-Orleans
byforce,would have been unquestionably a design vhich,
if carried iito executionwold have been treason, and
-the assemblagd of a body of men for.the purpose of ea.rying itinto 'excution would amount to levying of war
against-the United States ; but nw conspiracy for this
object, no enlisting of men to effect it, would be an actual
leyying of war.
In conformity with the,principles now laid down, have
heen the decisionp heretofore madeby the judges of tbp'
United States.
V1. IV.

Ila

SUPREME COURT U. S.

BOLLMA

The .apinions given by Judge Paterson 'and Judge
Iredell, in cases before them, imply nn actual assembling

"ART-"

"of men, though they rather designed to remark on the

EX

VAaTZ

wo uT.

purpose to which the force was to be applied than on the
nature of the force itself. Their opinions, however,'contemplate the actual employment of force.
. Judge Chase, in the trial of 'Fries, was more explicit.

He stated the opinion of the court to be, "that if a
body of people conspire and.meditate an insurrection
to'resist or oppose the'execution of any statute of the
United Slates by force, they are 'only guilty'of a high
misdemeanor ; but if they proceed to carry such 'itentipn into execution by force, that they are guilty of the
treason of l'evying war; and the quantum. of the force
employed, neither lessens nor increases thd'crime : whether'by one hundred, o r one tholusand persons, is wholly
immateriaI"
'The court are of opinion," continued
Judge Chase, on that occasion, "that a combination or
conspi" ay to levy war against the United States is not
treason, unless combined with an attempt to' carry such
combination or conspiracy into executfio .; some actual
forcetoorlevy
violence must be used in pursuance' ef such de'sign
war; but.it is altogether immiaterial whether
Tihe force.used is sufficient to effectuate the object ; any
force connected with' the intention will constitute the
crime of levying war."The application of these general principles to the particular case before the court will depend on the testimdny which 'has been exhibited against the acbcjs'ed.
The first deposition to be considered is that of General
Eaton. This gentleman connects in one statement the
purport of numerous conversations held with C6lonel
,Burr throughout the last winter.. In the course of thepe
copversations were communicated various criminal piojcts which seem to haie been revolving in the mind of
the prpjector. An expedition against Mexico seems to'
have been the first and most rnatured part of his plan, if
indeed it did not constitute a distinct and separate plan,

FEBRUARYk

1807-

129,

uppn,*te success f.ibhich other schemes still more cul-

Ex PArT=

Maps

BOLLaw.

and other information preparatory to its eieuition, and
which would rather indicate that it was the immediate
object, had been procured, and for a considerable time, in
repeated con'Versations, the whole efforts of Colonel Burr
.*ekd directed to-prove to the vitness, who was to have
held ahighcommandunder him, the practicability of the
enterprize, and in explaining to him the means by which
it was to.be effected.

S&a
woU-.

pabl

butnot..welt.igeited, might depend.

This deposition exhibits the various schemes of Col.
Burr, and its materiality depends on connecting the prisoners at the bWr in such of those schemes as were treasonable. For this puipose the affidavit of General Wlkinson, comprehending in its body the subitance" of a
letter from Colonel Burr, has been offered, 'and was re•ceived by the.circuit court. To the admission of this
testimony great nd serious objections have.bein made.
Ithas beei urged that it is avoluntary or rather an extrajudicial affidavi, made before a person not appearing to
be a magistrate, and contains the pubstartc only.of a
letter, of which the original is retained by the person
"whqpade the affidavit.

The objection that the affidavit is extrajudicial resolves itself into the question. whether'one magistrate'
may commnit o an affidavit taken before aniother magistrate. " For if he may, an affidavit made as the foundation of a commitment ceases to be extrajudicial, and
,the person Who makes. it would be as liajle to a prosecttion for.perjury as if the warrant of tommitment had
been issued by the "magistrate before whom the affidavit
was made.

,
dclecide that- an affidavit made before pne magistrate would not justify-a cominmitment by anbther, might
in many cases be productive 6f great inconvenience, And
does not appear.susceptible of abuse if the verity of the
certificate be 6stablished. .Such an affidavit seems ad.mi ssible on the principle that before the accused is put
upon his trial all the proceedings pre expartc. The
couft,therefore overruie this objection.

136
9X *UTZ

SUPRIEt COt1RT fu. s,

'Thatwhich questionsthe character of the tdron~lm

0LSi-AN

has on this occasion administered the oatb,is next to be

S*KRT-

considerid.

.~.~~~'

"The certificate from the office of the department of
state has been deemed insufficient by the cdunsel forthe
prisoners, because the law does not require the appoiiit-.
men$ of magistrates for the territory of New-Orlemis to
be certified to that. office, because ihe- certificate id in
itself informal and because it does not appear -that the
magistrate had taken the oath required by the act of
Congress.

The first of these objections is not supportbd by tht
law of the case,' and the second may be so readily co?tected, that the court has proceeded to consider'the subject as )f Jt wdre corrected, retaining however ny
_inpd
decision, if Against the pisoners, until the correction
shall bd made. With regard to the tliird, 1he magistratb
thiist be presumed to have taken the requisite oaths,
since he is found acting as a magistrate,
On the admissibility othat part of the affidavit Which
purports to be as hear the substance of the letter from
Colonel Burr to General Wilkinsonas the latter col.dinterpret it, a diiiion of opinion 'has taken place in ijhe
court. - Twdjudgds are ofopinion that as sach testimony.
&elivered in-the presence of the, prisoner on his. trial
would-be totally inadmissible, neither can it be considero
id:as-a foundatioi for a commitment, Although in making-a commitment the magistrate does not decide- ,on
ihe'guilt of the iisoner, *yethe does decide on the pro;bable cause, and a long:and painful imprisonment ma#
be, the consequence - of his decision. This prdbabld
cause, therefore, ought to be: proved by testimony in
itself legal; and which, though from the nature of the
casd it must be-exparte, ought in many othdrr.espectatto
be-such "aba'court and jury might hear.
Two judges are of opinion thift in this Incipient stmge
df the'prosecution ani affidavit' stating the general purport,
o
efaetter may-be read, particularly Where .' pe'rsox
.in possession of-it is at too great a distifice to admit of

VfEBkUARY, 180.

1s1

its being obtained, and that a comimitment may be found-

,ed on it.

BOLLMA
A.ND

Under this embarrassment it was deemed necessary
to look into the affidavit for the purpose of discovering
whether, if admitted, it contains matter which would
justify the commitment of the prisoners. at the bar on the
charge of treason.
That the letter from Colonel Burr to General Wilkinson relates to a military entbrprize meditated by the for-

mer, has not been questioned.

Ex pAni

If this enterprize was

against Mexico, it would a nount to a high misde-

meanof'; if against any of the territories of the United
States, or if in its progress the subversion of the governmentof the Unilted States in.any of their territories was
a mean clearly and necessarily to be employed, if such
mean formed a substantive part of the plan, the assemblage of a body of men to effect it would be levying war
against the United StatesThe letter is-in language which furnishes no distinct
view of the design of the writer. "The co-operation,
however, which is stated to have been secured, points
strongly to sorie expedition against the territories of
Spain. After making these general statements, the
writer becomes rather more explicit, and saysi " Burr's
plan of operations is to move down rapidly from the falls
on the 15th of November with the first 500 or 1,000 mCet
in light boats now constructing for that purpose, to be at
Nathhez between the sth and 15th of December, there
to-meet 'Wilkinson; then to determine whether it will
be expedient in the fi st instance to seize on or to pass by
Baton Rouge. The people of the country to which we
are going are prepared to recbive us. Their agents iow
with Burr say that if we will protect*their religion, and
will not subject them to a foreign power, in three weeks
all will be settled,"
There is no expression in Jhbse sentences which would
justfy a suspicion that any territoryof the United States
was the object of the expedition.

wouT-.
'.yt

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Ex PARTE
Bo'i.MAN

SAND.

For what purpose seize on Baton Rouge ; why en-,
gage Spain against this enterprize, if it was designed
against the United States?

WOUT.

The people of'the country to which we are going are
prepared to receive us." This language is peculiarly
appropriate to a foreign country. It will not be contended that the terms would be inapplicable to aterritory of the United States', but other terms would more
aptly convey the idea, and Burr -eems to :onsider himself as giving information of which Wilkinson was not
possessed. When it is recollected that he was the' governer-of a territory adjoining thatwhich must have been
threatened, if a terHtory of the United States was threatened, andthat he commanded" the army, a part of which
was stationed in that territory, the probability that the
informatidn communicated related to a foreign country,
it must be admitted, gains strength.

S"

" Their agents now with Burr say, that if we will protect their religion, and will not subject them to a foreign
power, in three weeks all will be settled."

This is @pparently the language of a people who, from
the contemplated change in their political situation)
feared for their religion, and" feared that they would be
made the subjects of a foreign power. That the Mexicans should entertain these apprehensions was natural,
and would readily be believed. They were, if the representation made of their dispositions be correct, about to
place themselves much in the power of men Iwho professed a different faith from theirs, and who, by making
them dependent on England or the United States, would
subject them to a foreign power.
That the people of New-Orleans, as a people, if really
engaged in the conspiracy; should feel the same appre.hensions, and require assurances on thq same points, is
by no means so obviods.
.There certainly is not in the letter delivered to Gen.
Wilkinson, so far as that letter is laid before the court,
one -syllable which has a necessary, or a natural refer-

FEBRUARY, 1807.

13;

ence to an enterprize against any territory of the United rx P~nT&
States.
AND.
That the bearer of this letter must be considered as
acquainted with its contents is not to be cor.troverted. The letter and his own declarations evince the
fact.
After stating himself to have pas:ed through NewYork, and the western states and territories, without ipsinuating that he had performed on his route any act whatever which was connected with the enterprize, he states
their object to be, "to carry an expeditidn into the kMexican provinces."
This statemeft may be considered as explanatory of
the letter of Col. Burr, if.the expressions of that letter
could be thought ambiguous.
But there are other declarations made by Mr. Swartwout, which constitute the difficulty of this case. - On an
inquiry from GeneralVilkinson, he said, "this territory would be revolutionized where the people were ready
to join them, and that there would be some seizing, he
supp.osed, at New-Orleans."
If these words import that the government established
by the United States in any of its territories, was to be
revolutionized by force, although merely as a step to, or
a mean of executing some greater projects, the design
was unquestionably treasonable, and an), assemblage of
men for that purposq would amount to a levying of war
But on the import of the words a difference of opinion
exists. Some of the judges suppose they refer to the
territory against which the expedition was intended ;
others to that in which the conversation was held. Some
consider the words, if even applicable to a territory of
the United States, as alluding to a revolution to be effected by the.people, rather than by the party conducted
by Col. Btfrr.

But whether this treasonable intention be really imputable to the plan or not, it is admitted that it must have
been carried into execution by. an open assemblage of

SWAUTVIouT.

'134

SLUPREME COURT V. S.

PARTS
men for that purpose, previous to the arrest of the priBOA.LK&N "soner, in order ta'"consummate the crime as to him ; and
"VART-,
a majority of the court is of opinion that the conversation'
'OUT.
of Mr. S~wartwout affords no sufficient proof of such as-

Ex

sembling.

The prisoner stated that "Col. Burr, with the support of a powerful -association extending from NewY6rk to New-Orleans, was levying an armed body of
7,000 men from the state of New-York and the western
states and territories, with a view to carry an expe.dition
to the Mexican territories."
That the association, whatever may be its purpose, is
not treason, has been alr eady stated. That levying an
army mayor may not be treason, and that this depends
on the intention with which it is levied, and on the point,
to which the parties have advanced, has been also stated.
The mere enlisting of men, without assembling them, is
not leCying war. The question then is, whether this
evidence proves Col. Burr to have advanced so far in
levying an army as actually to have assembled them.
It is argued that since it cannot be necegsary that the
whole 7,000 men should have assembled, their conimencing their mirch by detachments to the place of rendezvous must be sufficient to constitute the crime.
This position is correct, with some'qualification." It
cannot be necessary that the whole army should assemble, dfid that the various 'parts which are to compose it
should have coml}ned. 'But it is necessary that there
should be an actual assemblage, and therefore the evidence should make the fact unequivocal.
The travelling .6f individuals to the place of rende.vous would perhaps not be stifficient. This would be
,an'equivocal-act, and has no warlike appearance. The
meeting- of particular bodies df men, and their marching
from places of partial to Aplace of general rendezvous,
Would be such an assemblage.
The particular words used by Mr. Swartwout are, tnat
CQl. Burr "was levying an armed body of 7,000 men."'

155

FEBRUARY, 1807.

If the term levyiing in this place imports that they were Er
assembled, then such fact would amount, if the intention

be against the United States, tolevyiig wor.

If it bare-

Iy imports that he, was enlisting or engaging them in his

service, the fact would not amount to levying war.
It is thought sufficiently apparent that the latter is the

sense in which the term was used.

The fact alluded to,

if taken in the former sense, is of a nature so to force

itself upon the public view, that if the army had then
actually assembled, either together or in detachments,
some eitidence of such assembling would have been laid
before the court.
The words used by the prisoner in reference to seizing
at New-Orleans, and borrowing perhaps by force from
the bank, though indicating a design to rob, azd consequently importing a high offence, do not designate
the specific crime of levying war against the United
States.
It is therefore the opinion of a majority of the court,
that in the case of Samuel Swartwout there'is not sufficient evidence of his levying war against the United
Statis t5 justify his commitment on the charge of treason..
Against Erick Bollman there is stiil less testimony.
Nothing has been said by him to support the charge that
the enterprize in which he was engaged had any other
object than was stated in the letter of Colonel Burr.
Against him, therefore, there is no evidence to support
a charge of -reason.
That both of the prisoners were engaged in a most
culpable enterprize against the dominions of a power at
peace with the United States, those who admit the a-fidavit of General Wilkinson cannot doubt. But that no
part of this crime was committed in the district of Calu. bia is apparent. It is therefore the unanimous
opini6i of the court that they cannot.bb 'tried in. this
district.
Vol. IV.

"

MnTit

BoLLUAn
Swarm.
ioyor.

IS6

r. PART 3
BoLL.MAN
SWART-

woUIT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The law read on the part of the prosecution is understood to apply only to offences committed on the high
spas, or in any river, hayen, bason or bay, not within the
jurisdiction of any particular state. In those cases there
Sis no couit which has particular cognizance of the crime,
and therefore the place in which the criminal shall be apprehended, or, if he be apprehended where no court has
exclusive jurisdiction, that to which he shall be first
brought, is substituted for the place in which the offence
was committed.
But in this case, a tribunal for the trial of the oflente,
wherever it may have keen committed, had been provided by congress ; and at the place where the prisoners
were seized by the authority of the commaiiderin chief,
there existed such a tribunal. It would, too, be extremely dangerous to say, that because the prisoners were apprehended, not by a civil magistrate, but by the military
power, there could be given by law a right to try the
persons so seized in any place which the general might
s'elect, and to which he might direct them to be carried,
The act of congress which the prisoners are supposed
to have violated, describes as offenders those who begin
or st:t on foot, or provide, or prepare, the means for any
military expedition or enterprize to be carried on from
thence against the dominions of a foreign prince or state,
with whom the United states are at peace.
There is a want of precision in the description of the
offence which might produce some difficulty in deciding
what cases would come within it. But several other
questions arise which a court consisting of four judges
finds itself unable to decide, and therefore, as the crime
with which the prisoners stand charged has not been
committed, the court can only direct them to be discharged. This is done with the less reluctance because the
discharge does not acquit them from the offence whichthere is probable cause for supposing they have commit.ted, and if those whose duty it is to protect the nation,
by prosecuting offenders against the laws, shall suppose

VEBRUARY, 1807.

131'

those who have been charged.with treason to be proper
objets for punishment, they will, when possesied of less
exceptionable testimony, and when able to say at what
place the offence has been committed, institute fresh proceedings against them.

E: PALTr
BOLLHA.

SKILLERN'S EXECUTORS v. MAY'S
EXECUTORS.

SrZLL5UN'S
Ei'ns

SWA.RT.
wonT.

V.

Mxy's E'.

ERROR to the district court of the United States
for the district of Kentucky, in chancery.

If the obligee of a bond,
ubt,dn titleg
in his own

The facts of the case, as they appear upon the re- name for part
of the lands,
cord, are as follow:
the

Skillern put into the hands of Richard May several
land-warrants to locate in Kentucky, under an agreeInent -that May should have half the land for locating
the whole, who accordingly located the quantity of
2,500 acres i-i the name of Skiler, but not to his satisfaction, and the matter was not settled between them
at the time of R. May's death, when his interest in the
lTnds so located descended to his son, John May, the
defendants' testator. Skillern afterwards came to an
agreement with John May, on the 6th of March, 1785,
by which Skillern was to assign•lend
to J. May one military
warrant for 200 acres of land, Iand all the treasury warrants located in the name of Skillern, with the entries
and locations made thereon, which assignment was on
the same day executed, but never lodged in the landoffice, or the office of the surveyor of the county where

n!si n-

mentnfwhichh

to te obligor

was the considlration of
sufertebnand
the ti.
ties to the re-

silue of the
be
lands
lost byto the
non.payment
of taxes, a
court of equi.

tend i iadnot
to
carry into effect a judgment atthelaw
upon
bnd.
A court of

In consideration of this as- equitywilansignment, and in full of all demands by Skillern against which
nut a contract
the dethe representatives of R. May's estate, John May gave fendant has
the lands were situated.

to Skillern a bond, dated Malch 6th, 1785, to convey failed to per-

to Skillern 1,000 acres of the land to which R. May was form,andcan.
not perform,
entitled at his death, and which remained unsurveyed, on his part.
to be chosen by Skillern before the lsth of June, 1786.

