FEBRUARY,. 1s.

3187

dollarb. The judgment below was against the'United TuLUarraD
States, who sued out the present writ of error.
STATrs
"

But this Court, without argument, decided that it had
no jurisdiction, the matter in dispte being of less value
dollars.
than 2.000

THE MAYOR AND COMMC _ALTY OF
ALEXANDRIA v. PATTEN
AND OTHERS.

V

b1'Do'.ELL.

M.ton. &C
IoF ALEX-

,-DRIA
PATTZ7a AND
OTacas.

ERROR to the circuit courtof the district of Colm-

Ift!edcbtor

bia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of debt brought at the time or
by the mayor and commonalty of Alexandria, for the pa.yment does
u3e'of John G. Ladd, against Thomas Patten and his not direct to
suretics, on a bond.given for the performance of his duty thcamcount
as vendue-master.
""1sh1 be ap.
plied, the cre.
may at
The objectof the suit was to recover a sum of money ditor
arr time ap.
alleged to remain in his hands as vendue-master on ac- 1..;t 10 Whiel

count of goods sold for Ladd. Patten was also the aircunt
debtor of Ladd for goods sold by him to Patten, who Pirr.
gave in eviderce payments which exceeded the aniount
due upon the latter account, and which, if applied t6-the
former account, would nearly, if not entirely, discharg.
that debt. The payments were attended by circumstauces which the defendants considered as evidence of '
clear intention to apply them to -the debt due from Patten as vendue-master; " Whereupon the cdunsel for th,
plaintis prayed the opinion of the court whether, from
the manner in which the pnvments were made as aforesaid, the said John G. Ladd had not a right to apply so
much of the money, paid to him as aforesaid, as woul
discharge the debt due to him as afo resaid, for goods srld
as aforcsak to the said Thomas Patteti, to the discharge
of the sai e. Whereupon the court instructed the jury,
that if the), should be satisfied by the evidence that the
payments of the money by the defendant, Patten wert

he

SUPREME COURT U. S.
&c. madeon account of the goods sold at vendue, and so UtlALtX-. derstood by both parties at The time of the payments,

M.IA.olt,
oF

ANDRIA

V.
PATrEN AND

OV,-iJs.

they must be: applied to that accohtit.

" If Mr. Patten, at the time of paying the mcney, did
not direct to w'hich account it should be applied, and if
it wasnot understood by the parties at the time of pay.
ment on which account it was made, the pdintif had a
right immediately to make the application to which account he pleased ; but such application must lhave been
recent, and before any alteration had taken" place in the
circumstances of Mr. Patten.
"If neither of the parties made the application as
aforesaid, and if the parties did not then understand on
which account it was made, then the payments ought in
law to be applied to the discharge of the vendue account,
the non-payment of w,'hich is alleged as the breach of the
bonid upon which the present suit is brought."
To this opinion the plaintiffs excepted, and the verdict and judgment being against them, brought their writ
of error
Svann, for plaintiffs in error, contended that where
there are different debts due by a debtor to his creditor,
and a payment be made generally on account, the creditor
has a right to apply the payment, whenecvr he pleases,
to which account hepleases, mad cited the case of Goddard v. Cox, 2.Str. 1194..
roungs, contra.
It is admitted that the defendant had the right at the
time of payment tq direct its application, and that if lie
did not then exercise that right, it devolved upon the
plaintiff. , Butthe question is, when is the ,plaintiff to,
exercise the right ? Can lie, at any indefinite period
after the, payment, and'under any change of circufistances, apply the payment as he pleases ? Can he, at the
moment of trial, when. the defendant produces evidence
of payments, say I choose to apply these payments to the
uther account? The rules of law are all founded in reason. Some reasonable limit must be supposed to the

FEBRUARY, 1808.
exercise of this right.

319

In the present case the interests ba1von, t.

of third persons are involvcd. The sureties may have Or.ALEXM.
been lulled into security by the evidence of these payrAT'r': AND
ments.
OTIIEUS.

The court below was bound to .decide according to the
laws of Virginia, which have been adopted by congress
for the government of the county of Alexandria.

The law is conclusively settled in Virginia, V the
highest tribunal in that state, in the case of Braxton v.
Southerland, 1 Wash. 133. where the president of the
court of appeals, in delivering the opiniorl of the court,
says, " Although, if the debtor neglect to nake the application at the ti me of payment, the election is then cast-

upon the creditor, yet it is incumbent upon the latter, in
such a case, to make a recent application, by entries in
books or papers, and not to keep parties tnd securities in
suspense, changing their situation from .time to time, as
his interest,. governed by events, might dictate." And
upon this principle the decree ,of the court-in that case
was founded. It was not a* mere dictum, but the very
ground of the court's decision. This then beibg the.
law of Virginia, the court.below 'was bouid by it.
If theopinion of the court of appeals pf Virginianeeded suppori, it would ba found in 2 Pothier on Obligations,
45. who gives it as a rule of the civil law, that " when
the debtor in paying makes no application, the creditor
to whom money is due for different causes may apply it
to the discharge of which he pleases." * But he goes on
to say, "It is necessary, 1st. that this appligation
should have been made at the time; and, 2d. That the
application which the creditor makes should be equitable."- Another rule, inp. 49, is, that "1When the application has not been made either by the debtor or the
creditor, the application ought to be made to that debc
which the debtor had, at the time, most interest to disk
charge." And, as a'*orollary, he says, "The application is made rather to the debt for which the debtor hag
given.a surety, than to those which he owes alone. The
reason is, that in paying the former he discharges himself towards two creditors-his principal creditor, and
his surety whom he is bound to indemnify."
VoL-IV.

S 3

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MAYOl,

&c.

or ALEX-

These lprinciples are confirmed by I Domat. P,87. tit.

de solutione.

ANDRIA
V.

PAT'rn AND
oTHE,s,
'dlesex

The case of Goddardv. Cox, cited for the plaintiffs, is
a mere 2isi Priuscase before Chief Justice Lee, in Mid; and it only decides the principle, that, where a
defendant is indebted to the plaintiff on two simple contracts of equal dignity and of the same nature, and for
neither of which is any other person bound, and the payment is made generally on account, without any application having been made by the defendant, the right to
make the application devolves on the plaintiff. It does
not decide the question now before the court, which is,
'whether the plaintiff is not bcund to make a recent application ii cases whefe the interests of sureties are concerned.
All the cases in which the plaintiff has been' permitted
at law to make his election, are cases where the debts
were of equal dignity and of similar nature, and where
it did not appear to be important to the debtor,' or any
other person; to which debt the payment should be ap-plied. Esp. N. P. 229.
There is, in truth, no difference in principle between
the rule in equity and the rule at law, as to the application of payments.
271arci 7.
MARSUALL, Ch. J. after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court, as follows :

It is a clear principle of law, that a person owing money on two seyeral accounts, as upon bond and simple
contract, may elect to apply his payments to which account he pleases ; but if he fails to make the application,
the election passes from him to the creditor. No principle ic recollected which obliges the creditor to make
this election immediately. After having made it he, is
bound by it, but until he makes it he is free to credit
eithdr the bond or simple contract.

FEBRUjARY, 180s,

'321

Unquestionably, circumstances may occur, and perhips did occur in'thiscase, which would be equivlent
to the declaration' of 'his election on the part of the
debtor, and therefore the court was correct in instructing thejuif, that if they should be satisfied that the payments were understdod to" be made on account of the
gooils sold' at vendue, they ought to apply them to the
-discharge of that hccount ; but in declaring thatthe election, which they su'p osed to devolve on the plaintiff if
the application of the money was not undeistood at the
time by the parties, vas lost if not inimediately exercised, that court errid.

MAvo,,

&d.

oy ALZXD.
PATTZZ1ANID
OTHEz1l.

Their judgment, therefdre, must be reversed, aqd the
cause remanded for 'hew trial

DAWSON'S .LESSEE v. GODFREY.

DAvson's
v.

-GODFREY.

the circuit courf of the district of ColuknA peron
bia,ERROR
sittinj attoWashington.
born in England berora

-Russel Lee, a citizen of the United States, in the year

the year
1775 aid %

1793 died seised in fee bf a tract of land, called Argyle, always resid.
Co-vall and Lorn, situated in that part of the district of ed there, and
was in
Columbia which was ceded to the United States by the never
teUnited
state of Mayland. MIrs. Dawson, the lessor of' the states, in an
plaintiff, would be entitled to the landty descent, unless atl&, and
prevented by the application of the principle of alienage. could not in
She was born in England before the year ,7V5, always 793t
remained.a British 'subject, and was never in hie Untcl ands in
States."aryand
by
descent from
acitizen of!
The court below instructed ibe jury t'hat she was ah the
United
alien, and could not take the laud by descent from Rus- states.
sel Lee in the year 1793.
-

Ilhe question having been full' argucd, but not deti-

ded, in the cases of. Lambert' Lessee v. Paine,(ante, v9..

