FEBRUARY, 1807.

177

cessity of liberality in deciding upon the validity of
entries.

MAsHALI.

V,

The court,. therefore, reverses the decree of the distric eourt, and decrees a conveyance, to be executed by
the defendant to the complainants, of that .part of the
land contained in his patent which is included in the
complainants' qurvey, and that eath party pay their own
costs.
Decree reversed.

VIERS AND WIFE v.MONTGOMERY.

Vits
V.

MowrTOoM-

ERROR to the district court of Kentucky, in a suit
in chaucery brought originrily by Montgoiery against
W. M.V iers bnd Patsy his wife; late Patsy Henly, to
compel the latter to convey to thu foimer the legal estate in certain lands in Kentucky,. which one Ebenezer
Brooks, since-deceased, conveyed, by deeds dateat the
10th of November, 1191, to the defendant?s wife, while
wido4, 'and which Brooks by his last will devised to
the coshplainant Montgomery. The bill charged that
the only -consideration.of the deeds from Brooks to Patsy
Hfenly -was, that she' should" take him as her husbanol,"
which she refused to do,' but interm~arried with the defendant, W. M. -Viers.. -It did not aver that the complainant was of kin~to'the deceased, o that he had any
equitable claia" other than as a devisee. Nor did it
charge the defendant Patsy with any promise of marriage, or any breach ofsuch a' romise, rior with-fraud iii
obtaining the deedsu- The will of Brooks, referred to in
the bill, calls the complainant his friend and cousin. The
deeds were of bargain and sale in fee, and purported to
be itionsideration of 1,100!.Virginia currency, and contained a warranty against Brooks, and *ll claiming under
him.

A court or

equity 'vilt
not interfere
betwee
a donec ofladby
deed, and a
deviseeunder
donor,
a"il ofin-a
the
caso nwhere
there is no
fr-ud.

17t
VIEns
y.
oRo
,_Y___/

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The answer of the defendants. denied that the consideration of the deeds was as stated in the bill, and
avers that the defendant Patsy, although solicited, always refused to make any promise of marriage to the
deceased ; that he often pressed her to accept his land,
which she for some time declined; that he declared he
did not expect any consideration, but vyished her to receive it as a gift, and that he did not expect she would
marry him.
It alleged that Brooks had boarded in her house some
months, where he had been kindly and hospitably treated, without any charge being made .against him, and
suggested that this, together with the affection which he
entertained for her, but which she iways discountenanced, were 'his motives fowgiving her the land. That she
-at last, by the advice of her friends, accepted it, and that
when he had executed the deeds he vdluntarily declared
himself to be fully satisfied, in the presence of the subscribing witnesses.
The facts found by the jifty were, that the defendant
Patsy, by her conduct to the deceased, induced him to
suppose that she would marry him, and -that this encouragement or inducement was the only consideration she
gave for the land, except his boarding; but that she never made-him any promise of marriage. That he had
urged her to accept the land before she agreed to take it,
.and had -declared to her that he did not expect to receive
any consideration from her, but wished her to accept it
as a gift ; and that at the time he executed the deeds,
he declared he did not expect that she would marry him.
That she was advised by her friends to take the land before she agreed. to accept it; and that, after the execution of the deedas, she offered t& return to him the land,
but he would not receive it. That Brooks boarded in
her house, and never paid her any thing therefor, except
the land. The jury also found the will of the deceased,
and the devise to the complainant.
The decree of the court below, upon argument, was,
that the defendants should convey the land to the complainanlt, and that the complainant should pay the defendants the amount of Brooks' board, and the taxes which
had been paid by the defendants, with interest.

FEBRUARY, 18ay.

179

Which decree was by this court, without argument,
reversed, and the complainant's bill dismissed, with costs.

VIP-s
v.

Decree reversed:

DIGGS AND KEITH v. WOLCOTT.

Dcs
V.

V OLCOTT.

THIS was an appeal'from a decree of the circuit A court of
court for the district of Connecticut, in a suit in chan- the United
cery.

The appellants, Diggs and Keith, had commenced a
suit at law against Alexander Wolcott, the appellee, in
the county court for the county-of Middlesex, in the
state of Connecticut, upon two promissory notes-given
by Wolcott.to one Richard Mfatthews, for the purchase of
lands in Virginia, and by him indorsed to the appellants ;
whereupon Wolcott filed a bill in chancery in the superior
court of the state, against, the appellants Diggs and
Keith, and also against Robert oung and Richard Matthews, praying that Diggs and Keith might be compelled to give up the two notes to be cancelled, or be perpetually enjoined from proceeding at law for the recovery
thereof, &c.
This suit in chancery was removed by the appellants
from the state couit into the circuit court of the United
States for the district-.f Connecticut, where it was decreed that Diggs and Keith should, on or before a certam day, deliver the notes to the-clerk of the court, and
in default thereof should forfeit and pay to rolcott 1,500
dollars ; and that they should be perpetuallyenjoined,&c.
and that Robert l'oung should repay to the appellee the
amount of principai and interesi which the latter had paid
on account of the purchase of the lands ; and that the appellee should deliver up to the clerk the surveys of the,
lands, and the bond of conveyance; and in default thereor
should pay to R. Young the sum of 20,000 dollars.

Statez canDt
enjoin proceedins inn
:taac court.

