FEBRUARY,

o1808.

PAWLING AND OTHERS v. THE UNITED

STATES.

P'1w1. c-ta
OTHEflS
STATES.

ERROR to the district court for the district of Ken- Upon a deto entucky, in an action of debt upon an official bond given mutter
dence, the
tes.
by Ballinger, as collector of the revenue, and signed timony is to
and sealed by Pawling, Todd, Adair, and Kennedy, ashis be taktn most

sureties, who pleaded that they deliveredthe same, as ga -,
him
an escrow, to one 7osepIh Ballinger:, to be safely kept ; ganst
lho demurs,
upon condition that, if Simon Ingleman, and William and such con.
Patton, named oh the face of the bond, should execute clusions as a
the same as co-eureties, then 'the bond should be de- ut inht
livered to lames l1'.orrison,supervisor, on behalf of the draw, the
United States, as their 4eed, and not otherwise.; dnd court ought
that the same never was executed by Ingleman and Pat- to draw.
ton ; yet Ballinger delivered it to Aforrison, on behalf A bond may
of the United States, and so not their deed. The deli- as an ma=,
veryas an escrow being traversed by the United States, by the surety,
issue was thereupon joined; in the trial of which the to the praci.
United States. demurred to the evidence produced on pal obligor.at
defenda'ts, which consisted of the de- obligoers,

the part of the
position§-of T. T. Davis; W. G. Bryant, one of.the die time of
-subscribing witnesses, Elijah Stapp, another subscribing eeut1~fln
bodn th
theo
witness, John P. iWagnon, another subscribing witness, presence of'
and a letter from Morrison, the supervisor, to Ballin- some of the
obil.
othersay,461We
ger. The deposition of Davis states a. conversation, Igors
between Ballinger and Pawling, some time before the ucknowledge
signing of the bond, in which the former told the latter this istruthat Todd, Kennedy, Shelby, Knox, Ingleman, Logan, ment, but

Lewis, and Adair, had agreed to be security for him ;
upon which Pawling also agreed to become his surety,but
upon the express condition that the other persons also
bond. It also states a subsequent
should join in the Jq
conversaton between thl deponent and Todd, before
signing the bond, in which the latter denied that he
had agreed to become B-Alinger's suretq, buit said that
he should not be ap.prehensive of.danger, if all the
men whom Davis had named would join in the bond.The deposition of Bryant states that he saw Pawling,
in the presence of Ballingtr, sign the bond, Pn condition

sign it.r this
is evidence
from 'which

the jury
m.v
infer
a det:very a n e:cro=,
by all
the obligor
.ilho VLf
then present.

220

SUPREME eCflUT U. S.

PAWl-ANo & that Kennedy, Todd, Adair, Davis, and others, whom
OTHERO
the witness did not recollect, should also sign the bond
TnEUNITED

S,&wrs.,
k

...

and he understood that Pawling was to be exonerated if
they did not. The deposiiioti of Elijah Stapp'tates that
he saw Piwling, in the hearing of Ballinger, acknovledge the bond as his act and deed, upon condition 'that
others mentioned should alsb sign it. The deposition
of Wagnon states, that when Todd, Adair and Kenneat signed the bond, Todd, in the presence of the other
two, after. insertin?,in the bond' the names of other
persons who he said were to sign it, called upon the
witness to take notice that others were to sign it, and
said,." We acknowledge this instrument' of writing,.
but others are to sign it." The letter from Morrison
to Ballinger says, "1 have received your favour by Mr.
Davidson, who'carries back 'your bond; not that I requiie more securities, but that you'appeared anxious to
have morep; those who have already signed' are vety
sufficient." It was admitted by the attorney for the
United States, that the names of Thomas Kennedy,
John Adair, Sim9n Ingleman, and William Patton,
inserted-ii the body .of the bond as obligors, were in
the hand-writing of the defendant, Todd. This evidence, upon the demurrer, was by the court below adjudged insufficient. The defendants, the sureties, took
a bill of exceptions to the refusal of the court to suffer
Ballinger,.the principal obligor, to be examined as a
witness for them, they having severed in their. pleas.
But as that question was not decided by this court, it is
deemed unnecessary to state the arguments of counsel
on that point.
Pope, forthe plaintiffs in error.
Upon a d'emurrer to evidence, it is a general rule ot
law, that thq evidence must be taken most strongly
against the party demurring ; and that the court ought
to infer every thing which a jury could reasonr.bly have
inferred from the testimony. Doug. 134. (3ded.) Cochs.
edge v. PanshaW. 2 Wash. 210, 211. Stephenm v.
In the present case, there can be no question as to the
defendants, Pawling and Todd : the only possible doubt

FEBRUARY, 180s.

221

which can be raised is, whether the testimony of WaS- PvW.ziro &
OT21aof Adair and Kennedy.
non supports the pleas
•
V.
Rodney, Attorney General for the United States,
contended,
That the delivery as an escrow ought to have been to
a third person, and not to Ballinger, the principal obligor.
Pope, in reply.
The law of the plea is admitted by the joining of issue upon the fact. No exception can be taken to the
legality of the defence, if the facts of the plea arefoubid
to be true. Courts ought to lean against demurrers to
evidence, because they take the cause from the jury,
which is the proper tribunal to decide the facts of the
ease, and throw that burden upon the court, whose only
duty it is to decide the law. Demurrers to evidence
are also extremely inconvenient in practice, especially
demurrers to parol testimony, which consume a vast
deal of time.
'February 87.
-MAxSHALL, Ch.
court as follows :

3. delivered the opiiion of the

In this-case two points are made for the consideritiorn
of the court.
It is contended by the plaintiffs in error,
1st. That judgment on the demurrers to evidence
should have been rendered for the defendants in the
court below.
2d. That Joseph Ballinger ought to have been admitted as a witness.
The general doctrine on a demurrer to evidence has
been correcd stated at the bar. The party demurring
admits the truth of the testimony to %;hichhe demurs.

TnEUZITED
STATns.

292

SUPRtEME COUR'r V. S.

.AWLiNC & and also.-thoee conclusions of fact which a jury'in'ay
s
fairlv draw from thit testimony. Forced and violent
OV.T
•r,?rTsD inferences he does not admit ; but the testimony is to
be taken most strongly againsi him, and such concluSTATUS
a
sions as a jury might justifiably drawt, the cotlrt ought
•
to draw.
The point in issue between the parties was the delivery of the instrument on which the suit was instituted.
The plaintiffs below contending that it was delivered
absolutely, the defendants that it was delivered as an
escrow.
The bond, upon its face, purports to be delivered
absolutely; and it -is not to be doubted, that obligees
woid be much more secure agaiist fraud, if the evidence that the-writing was deliveired -as an escrow appeared upon its face, than by admitting parol testimony
of that fact. But the law is settled otherwise, and is
not to be disturbed by this court.
The subscribing witnesses to the bond were examined
to prove its delivery. Henry PNwling executed it at
one time, the other defendants, Kennedy, Todd, and
AdAir, at a different time. With respect to Pawling,
the ;estimony is as complete as can be required. William G.,Bryant deposes that Pawling signed the bond, on
condition that other persons, whom he named, should
alsosign it. The witness understood that, if those
other persons should not sign it, Pawling should be
exonerated. Elijah Stapp, the other subscribing witness to the signature of Pawlinig, deposed that " he
saw Pawling acknowledge it as hjs act and deed,, ulion
condition that others, whom he -mentioned, should also
sign it."
These are the subscribing witnesses to the bond, and
certainly a jury believing them could not have avoided
declaring, by their verdict, that the bond was delivered
on condition. That condition not having been perfortied, the bond, as to Pawling, remains an escrow.
The testimony, with respect to the other defendants,
is less positive. The witness, John P.. NWagnon, was

FEBRUARY, 180B.
called in to attest:the bond. Thomas Todd, one of the pRw.X.O U
.
defendants, then sat down and inserted in the body of OTnUS
the bondthe names of otherpersons who, he said, were T,7Uhi.Wr
also to execute the instrument which he then held in his SrATMs.
hand.
Some dstinctioti was taken at the bar between the
case of Todd and that of the other defendants. But
the court is of opinion that no such distinction exists.
ihe othei defendants said nothing. Tlhry did not even
acknowledge their signatures. Todd, holding the instrument in his hands, called upon the witness to take
notice that " we" (in the plural) "acknowledge this inStrument, but. othirs are to sign it." The twio. other
obligors being present; and making no other acknowledgment, ire clearly to be considered. as speaking
through Tqdd, and executing the bond on the terms. on
which he -executed it. Their condition, then, is the
same. It is either an escrow, or a writing obligatory
with respect to all of them.

A jury might certainly have found the issue in Iavour
of the plaintiffs below, and a court would -have been
well satisfied with their verdict. But might they not,
without going against evidence, have found the issue in
favour of the defendants below?
"hen wards are to he proved ny witnesses who depend on theirmemory alone, the precise terms employed
by the parties will seldom be recollected, and courts
and juries must-form their opinions upon the substance
and upon all the circumstances. Now to what purpose
did the defendants call upon the subscribing witness to
take notice that others, as well as themselves, were to
execute the writing? To what purpose did'they qualify
their acknowledgment with this derlaration ? It could
not be in order to show that they depended on Ballinger
to procure additional securities, for that was an affair
between him -nd them, of which it was perfectly unnecessary to call on the witness to take notice, if itw1A
to have no influence on the particular fact he was required to attest. There is certainly strong reason for
believing tharthe obligors considered that declaration as
Vol. IV.
F f

24
PAWLX NG &
OTHERs
V.

pTTXU~'r
STATES.

SUPREME .COURT U. S.

explaining and affecting the act with which they connected it.

.

It is also of some importance that the defendant,
Todd, -bad previously declared that he. should not be
apprehensive of becoming a security for Ballinger, provided others, whom he named, should also become securites, and that he inserted the names of others in the
bon4, in the presence of the witness.
Although the judgts who compose this court might
not, perhaps, as jurors, -be perfectly satisfied with this
testimony, they cannot say that a verdict would not be
received, or ought not to be received,' which should
find the issue in favour of the defendants below. They
cannot say that such a verdict would be against evidence. Thinking so, the court is of opinion that the
judgmbnt on the demurrer ought to have been in flavotir
of the defendants below
It is unnecessary to give any opinion on the second
point. The judgment of the court for the district of
Kentv ky is to be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

GRANT v. NAYLOR.

r_.RANT
NAYLOR.

A letter of , ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Mary.
addressed by larjib in an action of assumplsit brought by John and Yeinisfake to remia Naylor against Daniel Grant.
credit

Yohn and Jos vHed deliveredto
.ohn and Jx.
rEMi-A2, will

The verdict and judgment below were for the plain.

• "-.

tiffs on the second count of the declaration, which stated
in substance, that it wiis agreed between the plaintiffs and
nQtsupportan defendant; that if the plaintiffs would *atthe request of
ation byJohn the dafendcit sell and deliver .to a John Hackeft and
and
for goods fderemiah
fur- Alexander Grant " divers goods, .wares and mer~han-

