FEBRUARY, 1807.

167
Tar.UIFOTz

THE UNITED STATES v. ZEBULON
CANTRIL.

STATZS

CA

THIS casewas certified from the circuit court ot tile The act of
district of Georgia, the opinions of the Judges of that cong'es" ol
court being opposed upon a motion in. arrest ofjudg- 1798, to .e
ment, upon a verdict of guilty on the following indict- nishfraud,
ceninittrd on
the bank Cofhe
United Suttte:,

ment, Viz.

"The jurors," &c. "uponr their oath present that Ze- isin intself
rbulon Cantril late," &c. on the 1st of January, 1806, pagnaot,'ajtd
"with force and arms, at the house of one William wil not sup.
Gibson, in the town of St.Mary's," &c. "a certain false, inent
Im an fur
folret
forged and counterfeit paper, partly writteq and partly knowinglyut

printed,purporting to be a bank bill of the UnitedStates
for t-it dollars, signedby Thomas iiltlngpresident,and
G. Simpson, cashier, dated at Philadelphiix the second
day of September, one thousand eight hundred and four,
ayable
demand to R. Beatty or bearer, with force
payable on
elntouslyBeutter

ea

r, ish strce

terin9 strue,
'ged,fats,
and forcounterfeit
paper, purg to be a
k bill of

and arms, did feloniously utter and publish as a true the United

bank bill of the UnitedStates, with intent to defraud the states, signed
said William Gibson,. and which said false, forged and by the prestcounterfeit bill, partly written and partly printed, is in dentran, ca.
the words, figures and letters follo:hing, to wit:" (here
the bill was inserted:) " He the said Zebulon Cantril"
"at the said time of uttering and publishing the said
false, forged, and counterfeit bill, partly written and
partly printed, there by him in form aforesaid, well
knowing the same so by him uttered and published to
be false, forged and counterfeited, against the form of
the statute in that case made and provided, and against
the peace and dignity of the United States." "
The reasons assigned in arrest ofjudgment were,
1. That the indictment is insufficient and repugnant,
inasmuch as it charges the prisoner with having uttered
and published as true, a cettainfalse, forged, and counterfeit paper, partly written and partly printed, purporting to be a bank bill of the United States for ten dollars,
signed by Thomas Willing, president, and. G. Simpson,
cashier, &c.
Vol. IV

y

168
TIPUNXTED
STATES
CANTRIL.

SUPREME COURT

J. S.

2. Because the act of congress passed the 27th of
June, 1798, entitled 1 anact topunishfroeqatd Vpmrnitted
on the bank ofthe UnitedStates,' (Fol. 4..p. 152.) under
ivhich the prisoner is indicted, or so much thereof as relates to the charge set forth in'the indictment, is inconsistent, repugnant, and. therefore void.

The words of the act of Congress, s f r as they describe the offence charged, are as folloW, viz.
"If any person shall utter or publish, as trte, any
false, forged or counterfeited bill or note issuedby order of
thepresident, directors and company of the bank of the
UnitedStates, and signed by the president and countersigned by the cashier thereof, with intention to defraud
the said corporation, or any other body politic or person, jnowing the same to be falsely altered, forged or
counterfeited, every such person shall be deemed,ond
adjudged guilty of felony, and being thereof ponvicted,
according to the due course of law, shall be sentenced," &c.
The question was submitted without argument.
February28.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the qourz
that the judgment ought to be arrested, for the reasons
assigned in the record, and directed the opinion to be
certified accordingly.

The same order was made in the case of The United
States v. Baylis,for a similar offence.*
An act of congress was passed at the session 1806-1807, to
amend the law in this respect,

