OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Per Curiam.

383 U. S.

HICKS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued October 21, 1965.-Decided February 28, 1966.

Certiorari dismissed.
Reported below: See 197 A. 2d 154.

Charles W. Wolfram argued the cause for petitioner,
With him on the
briefs were Lawrence Speiser, Melvin L. Wulf and
Monroe Freedman.
Hubert B. Pair argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Chester H. Gray, Milton D. Korman and Ted D. Kuemmerling.
pro hac vice, by special leave of Court.

PER CURIAM.

The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.
concurring.
Among the several reasons which support the action
of the Court in dismissing the writ in this case as improvidently granted, I rest my decision to join in this disposition on the lack of a record, without which I do not
believe the constitutional issues tendered can properly
be decided.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting.

I.
We granted certiorari in this case to consider what I
think is an important question: the constitutionality of
petitioner's conviction of "vagrancy." Relying on our
determination that this case presented substantial ques-

HICKS v. DISTRICT OF'COLUMBIA.
252

DOUGLAS,

253

J., dissenting.

tions of constitutional law, the parties comprehensively
briefed those questions and we heard argument. But
now the Court decides that the writ of certiorari must
be dismissed as improvidently granted.
With all respect, I. must dissent from this disposition
of the case.
In the first place, the alleged "untimeliness" of the
petition was called to the attention of the Court by
respondent in its brief opposing the grant of certiorari.
We were thus fully aware of this point when we granted
the writ. Moreover, Rule 22 (2) is not jurisdictional
or mandatory and may be waived by this Court under
proper circumstances, at least where no jurisdictional
statute is involved. Heflin v. United States, 358 U. S.
415, 418, n. 7. Having brought the case here, required
the parties to brief the issues, and heard argument, it is
most inappropriate to decline to exercise our discretion
and waive the time bar of Rule 22 (2). 1
Nor, in my opinion, is the objection to the adequacy
of the record well founded. Petitioner argued in this
Court that the statute defining "vagrant" is unconstitutionally vague. The challenged statute is ยง 22-3302 (3)
of the District of Columbia Code, and it provides that a
''vagrant" is:
"Any person leading an immoral or profligate life
who has no lawful employment and who has no
'The above assumes that Rule 22 (2) applies to this case. Our
jurisdiction to review this decision is not based on 28 U. S. C.
ยง 1254 (1) (1964 ed.) which we previously held did not permit review
by writ of certiorari of cases where the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit refused to allow an appeal. Ferguson v.
District of Columbia, 270 U. S. 633. Our jurisdiction is founded on
the power to issue a common-law writ of certiorari. House v. Mayo,
324 U. S. 42; 28 U. S. C. ยง 1651 (a) (1964 ed.). Arguably, Rule
,22 (2) has no application in cases involving extraordinary writs.
Rule 31 which governs the procedure on applications for extraordinary writs imposes no time limit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

lawful means of support realized from a lawful
occupation or source."
We do not need a detailed account of the particular facts
of this case in order to pass on the claim that this statute
lacks the specificity that due process of law requires. In
Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 3Q6 U. S. 451, 453, we said:
"If on its face the challenged provision is repugnant to the due process clause, specification of details of the offense intended to be charged would not
serve to validate it. . . . It is the statute, not the
accusation under it, that prescribes the rule to govern conduct and warns against transgression ...
No one may be required at peril of life, liberty or
property to speculate as to the meaning of penal
statutes."
The Court held the challenged statute bad in that
case without considering the defendant's conduct which
formed the basis of the prosecution. If a penal statute
is so imprecise as to deny fair warning to those who might
transgress it, any conduct of the defendant prosecuted
under it which might have been proscribed by a more
precisely worded statute is irrelevant.
The Lanzetta case is close kin to the present one
because the crime there charged was one of being a
"gangster" which was defined as any person "not engaged
in any lawful occupation, known to be a member of any
gang consisting of two or more persons, who has been
convicted at least three times of being a disorderly person,
or who has been convicted of any crime in this or in any
other State." 306 U. S., at 452. The Court, without
considering the facts of record, looked only at the statute
and the charge of the indictment and ruled that the Act
was unconstitutional for vagueness.
If one takes my view and approaches this case as an
attempt by the Government to regulate the status of

HICKS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
252

DOUGLAS,

255

J., dissenting.

being a vagrant, the absence of a detailed record is-a,;
with the vagueness point-no impediment to proper
analysis.
II.
Our vagrancy laws stem from the series of the Statutes
of Labourers (23 Edw. 3; 25 Edw. 3, Stat. I) first passed
in 1349 and amended and modified from time to time over
the next 200 years.2 They reflected "the criminal aspect
of the poor laws." 3 They "confined the labouring population to stated places of abode, and required them to
work at specified rates of wages. Wandering or vagrancy
thus became a crime."
History tells the story from the
point of view of the Establishment: that wandering
bands of people, who had left their masters, committed
all sorts of crimes and hence must be punished for wandering. That philosophy obtains in this country, because
2 III Stephen, History of the Criminal Law of England 203
et seq.
(1883).
IId., at 266; see II Holdsworth, History of English Law 459462 (1927). The purpose of these statutes was to offset the loss of
workers and to check the rise in wages which resulted from the
Black Death. Those able to work, and lacking other means of support were compelled to work, and at regulated wages. Workers
were confined to their existing place of residence. Stephen suggests
that the "object of this legislation was to provide a kind of substitute
for the system of villainage and serfdom, which was then breaking
down .... " Stephen, op. cit. supra, at 204. See also Kenny's
Outlines of Criminal Law 411 (Turner ed. 1958). Early laws forbidding begging distinguished between beggars "able to serve or
labor" and "beggars impotent to serve." See, e. g., 12 Rich. 2, c. 7.
Economic conditions changed; when work became scarce, laborers
were forced to look elsewhere. The focus of the laws dealing with
laborers shifted; the ban on migration became a preventive to keep
a parish from being saddled with the needs of foreign paupers and
idlers. "The vagrant came to be regarded rather as a probable
criminal than as a runaway slave. He must be made to work or else
be treated as a criminal." Stephen, op. cit. supra, at 274.
4 Stephen, op. cit. supra, at 267.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
DOU;LAS, ,J.,

dissenting.

383 U. S.

the English statutes provided the seed of our vagrancy
laws. Article IV. 1, of the Articles of Confederatioii
assured the free inhabitants of each State save "paupers,
vagabonds, and fugitives from Justice,' the privileges
and immunities of citizenship of the several States, and
the right of free ingress and egress to and from each State.
But there was incongruity in superimposing the English anti-migratory policy upon the law of America:
"Vast movements of people motivated by urgent
economic need settled this country from Europe,
pushed settlement westward and fed growing cities
from rural population reservoirs. England's Enclosure Acts, by withdrawing land from agricultural
use, swelled the army of English vagrants; America
invited migration with the lure of free land. The
same elements of the population who on one side
of the Atlantic were rogues and vagabonds, on the
other were frontiersmen."
America's vagrancy laws were expanded to cover a host
of acts other than wandering-begging, drunkenness, disorderly conduct, loitering, prostitution, lewdness, narcotics peddling, and so on. They were justified here, as
in early England, as devices of control. This Court,
writing in 1837, said:
"We think it as competent and as necessary for
a state to provide precautionary measures, against
the moral pestilence of paupers, vagabonds, and possibly convicts; as it is to guard against the physical
pestilence, which may arise from unsound and infectious articles imported, or from a ship, the crew of
Foote, Vagrancy-Type Law and Its Administration, 104 U. Pa.
L. Rev. 603, 617 (1956). And see Scott, Criminal Law in Colonial
Virginia 272-275 (1930).

HICKS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
252

DOUGLAS,

257

J., dissenting.

which may be labouring under an infectious disease."
City of New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102, 142-143.
The wanderer, the pauper, the unemployed-all were
deemed to be potential criminals. As stated by the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in District
of Columbia v. Hunt, 82 U. S. App. D. C. 159, 161, 163
F. 2d 833, 835, "A vagrant is a probable criminal; and
the purpose of the statute is to prevent crimes which
may likely flow from his mode of life." The vagrant,
therefore, is not necessarily one who has committed any
crime but one who reflects "a present condition or
status." Handler v. Denver, 102 Colo. 53, 58, 77 P. 2d
132, 135. Cf. Ex parte Branch, 234 Mo. 466, 470-471,
137 S. W. 886, 887. That condition is not a failure to
make a productive contribution to society, for the idle
rich are not reached. The idle pauper is the target.
Insofar as that status reflects pauperism it suggests the
need for welfare; and insofar as it reflects idleness it
suggests the need for the intervention of employment
agencies. I do not see how under our constitutional
system either of those elements can be made a crime.
To do so serves the cause either of arrests and convictions on suspicion or of arrests and convictions of unpopular minorities (Edelman v. California, 344 U. S. 357,
366, dissenting opinion )-procedures very convenient to
the police I but foreign to our system.
I do not see how economic or social status can be made
a crime any more than being a drug addict can be. Robinson v. California, 370 U. S.660, 668 (concurring opinion).- No overt act of criminal dimensions is charged
"Foote, op. cit. supra, n. 5, at 625 et seq.
The volume of vagrancy cases in the courts each )ear is large.
The most recent FBI Crime Reports show that in 1964, in 3,012
cities with populations exceeding 2,500, 125,763 vagrancy arrests
were made (out of a total of 4,155,924 arrests for that same period).
Uniform Crime Reports-1964, p. 120.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Appendix to opinion of

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

here.

Petitioner was either arrested on suspicion ' or for
innocent acts 0 which were used as a cloak for an arrest

on grounds the police could not establish.
event the

arrest

and

conviction

were,

in

In either
my view,

unconstitutional.
APPENDIX TO OPINION OF MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS, DISSENTING.
GUITARIST CONVICTION STIRS PROTEST
By

STERLING SEAGRAVE

The Washington Post
June 14, 1963
Eddie Hicks, the 25-year-old Dupont Circle troubadour convicted of vagrancy because he spent his after-

noons playing a guitar in Dupont Circle, was given a
suspended sentence yesterday.
The American Civil Liberties Union announced it
would appeal the Hicks case and attack the constitutionality of his conviction under the vagrancy statute. The
8 For the I)revalenuy of arrests "on suspicion" or "for investigation"
in tho Diriet of Columbia, see Report and Recommendations of the
Coniiai-loners' Committee On Police Arrests for Investigation (the
Horsky Report), July 1962.
9He was either arrested for playing a guitar in a park (see Appendix) or for sleeping in a men's room (cf. Jean Valjean in Victor
Hugo's Les Miserables), for the information reads as follows:
"Eddie J. Hicks late of the District of Columbia aforesaid, on or
about the 19th day of May in the year A. D. nineteen hundred and
sixty three, in the District of Columbia aforesaid, and on Dupont
Circle north, west, was then and there, and has been since that day
and still is a vagrant, to wit; a person leading an immoral and
profligate life who has no lawful employment and who has no lawful
means of support realized from a lawful occupation and source and
who wanders abroad and lodges in a public park and public comfort
stations, living upon the charity of others, and who lives idly and
without any settled home, and otherwise leading a profligate life."

HICKS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
252

Appendix to opinion of

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

ACLU said the statute was unclear and was being used
by police to persecute Hicks and others who were only
enjoying themselves innocently in a public park.
The young troubadour was arrested by a Park Policeman Wednesday after being warned not to play his guitar
in Dupont Circle. As a result, residents of the area
and "regulars" in the park are protesting what they consider an invasion of their right to 'assemble in peaceful
recreation.
Top officials of the Interior Department spoke out in
favor of guitar playing and folk singing as a "wholesom6
activity that should not be disturbed but encouraged"
in the Nation's public parks.
At the trial Wednesday, Park Policeman James E.
Thomas told Judge Thomas C. Scalley that Hicks was
unemployed. Hicks testified that he was only visiting
Washington for a few weeks and that he had shown
Thomas a $20 bill when the policeman had threatened
to arrest him for vagrancy if he ever came back to Dupont
Circle.
When he was arrested Wednesday, Hicks was sitting
on a bench with a friend, his guitar in a case and money
in his pocket, testimony showed.
At the sentencing yesterday, Judge Scalley told the
minstrel that he was suspending sentence and that Hicks
was free on "personal bond." The conviction went
down on his record, however.
Reaction came swiftly. At Dupont Circle, angry
sympathizers plotted a demonstration.
"If they are going to stick that boy with a vagrancy
conviction just for playing a guitar, they're going to have
to arrest several hundred of us. We've been playing
guitars there for years," said on'e.
The regular habitues of Dupont Circle on any given
day are neighborhood residents, retired folk, families who
pause on a stroll in the summer sun, children who play

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Appendix to opinion of

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting. 383 U. S.

porpoise in the fountain, couples who doze on the grass,
and students.
The students were priced out of Georgetown, moved
to Foggy Bottom, then relocated to the Dupont Circle
area when urban renewal closed Foggy Bottom to them.
They live for blocks around the Circle in low-rent
rooming houses, studios and shared apartments. Most
are poor, some are out of school temporarily to work eve-.
nings and part-time wherever they can find jobs.
Generally, they are clean-cut, neatly dressed in sports
clothes; articulate, quiet and yet quick to takq offense
when they think civil authorities are breathing too closely
on their necks.
When they can, they play chess in the Circle, around
the fountain, argue age-old questions, or gather around
the talented and untalented guitarists among them for
spontaneous folk music sessions that quickly draw the
interest and amusement of passers-by.
On recent Sundays, spontaneous "hootenannys" have
started out of nothing, drawing small crowds which sat
listening on the grass.
On May 19, Park Policemen routed the last hootenanny, sending everyone scurrying for cover. Attorney
Arthur Neuman was passing by and snapped pictures.
"It was a peaceful, lawful assembly," Neuman said
yesterday. "There was no disturbance and it was commendable and refreshing to see young people engaged in
good social behavior rather than roaming the streets
committing crimes."
Capt. Raymond S. Pyles, chief of the Third Precinct
which includes the Circle, reported, "I cannot recall a
single complaint about them."
Walter Pozen, 'assistant to .Secretary of the Interior
Stewart Udall, said, "Not only do I think they shouldn't
be singled out-they should be encouraged. The parks
are there for recreation and general use."

HICKS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
252

Appendix to opinion of

DOUGLAS,

261

J., dissenting.

"There's no rule I know against playing in a park,"
said Conrad Wirth, director.of the National Park Service.
"I like music myself."
Charles Wolfram, the ACLU attorney who will champion Hicks when the case is appealed, said yesterday that
his attack would be against three sections of the vagrancy
statute.
The statute describes a vagrant as "immoral, profligate and dissolute (with) no lawful means of employment or support, without any settled home."
"First," Wolfram said, "the word 'dissolute' is so vague
you can't tell what it forbids. Second, the statute discriminates against the poor and the unemployed. Third,
it is used by police as carte blanche to harass anyone
they personally dislike."
Looking back at the whole episode, attorney Neuman
said, "If a man chooses to spend his life playing a guitar,
who has the right to insist that he engage in some sort
of servitude?"

