HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.

663

Syllabus.

HARPER

v. VIRGINIA BOARD OF
ELECTIONS ET AL.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 48.

Argued January 25-26, 1966.-Decided March 24, 1966.*

Appellants, Virginia residents, brought this action to have Virginia's
poll tax declared unconstitutional. The three-judge District Court
dismissed the complaint on the basis of Breedlove v. Suttles, 302
U. S. 277. Held: A State's conditioning of the right to vote on
the payment of a fee or tax violates the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Breedlove v. Suttles, supra, pro
tanto overruled. Pp. 665-670.
(a) Once the franchise is granted to the electorate, lines which
determine who may vote may not be drawn so as to cause invidious
discrimination. Pp. 665-667.
(b) Fee l)ayments or wealth, like race, creed, or color, are unrelated to the citizen's ability to participate intelligently in the
electoral process. Pp. 666-668.
(c) The interest of the State, when it comes to voting registration, is limited to the fixing of standards related to the applicant's
qualifications as a voter. P. 668.
(d) Lines drawn on the basis of wealth or property, like those
of race, are traditionall'y disfavored. P. 668.
(e) Classifications which might impinge on fundamental rights
and liberties-such as the franchise-must be closely scrutinized.
P. 670.
240 F. Supp. 270, reversed.

Allison TV. Brown, Jr., argued the cause for appellants
in No. 48. With him on the brief were Lawrence Speiser
and Philip Schwartz.
Robert L. Segar and J. A. Jordan, Jr., argued the cause
for appellant in No. 655. With them on the brief were
Max Dean and Len W. Holt.
*Together with No. 655, Butts v. Harrison, Governor of Virginia,
et al., also on appeal from the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

383 U. S.

George D. Gibson argued the cause for appellees in
both cases. With him on the briefs were Robert Y. Button, Attorney General of Virginia, Richard N. Harris,
Assistant Attorney General, and Joseph C. Carter, Jr.
Solicitor General Marshall argued the cause for the
United States, as amicus curiae in No. 48, by special leave

of Court, urging reversal. With him on the brief were
Attorney General Katzenbach,, Assistant Attorney General Doar, Ralph S. Spritzer, David Rubin, James L.
Kelley and Richard A. Posner.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are suits by Virginia residents to have declared
unconstitutional Virginia's poll tax.1 The three-judge
I Section 173 of Virginia's Constitution directs the General Assembly to levy an annual poll tax not exceeding $1.50 on every resident

of the State 21 years of age and over (with exceptions not relevant
here). One dollar of the tax is to be used by state officials "exclusively in aid of the public free schools" and the remainder is to be
returned to the counties for general purposes. Section 18 of the Constitution includes payment of poll taxes as a precondition for voting.
Section 20 provides that a person must "personally" pay all state
poll taxes for the three years preceding the year in which he applies
foi, registration. By § 21 the poll tax must be paid at least six
months prior to the election in which the voter seeks to vote. Since
the time for election of state officials varies (Va. Code §§ 24-136,
24-160-24-168; id., at § 24-22), the six months' deadline will vary,
election from election. The poll tax is often assessed along with
the personal property tax. Those who do not pay a personal property tax are not assessed for a poll tax, it being their responsibility
to take the initiative and request to be assessed. Va. Code § 58-1163.
Enforcement of poll taxes takes the form of disenfranchisement of
those who do not pay, § 22 of the Virginia Constitution providing
that collection of delinquent poll, taxes for a particular year may
not be enforced by legal proceedings until the tax for that year has
become three years delinquent.

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
6}63

665

Opinion of the Court.

District Court, feeling bound by our decision in Breedlove v. Suttles, 302 U. S. 277, dismissed the complaint.
See 240 F. Supp. 270. The cases came here on appeal
and we noted probable jurisdiction. 380 U. S. 930. 382
U. S. 806.
While the right to vote in federal elections is conferred by Art. I, § 2, of the Constitution (United
States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 314-315), the right to
vote in state elections is nowhere expressly mentioned.
It is argued that the right to vote in state elections is
implicit, particularly by reason of the First Amendment
and that it may not constitutionally be conditioned upon
the payment of a tax or fee. Cf. Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, 113.- We do not stop to canvass
the relation between voting and political expression.
For it is enough to say that once the franchise is granted
to the electorate, lines may not be drawn which are inconsistent with the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. That is to say, the right of
suffrage "is subject to the imposition of state standards
which are not discriminatory and which do not contravene any restriction that Congress, acting pursuant to
its constitutional powers, has imposed." Lassiter v.
Northampton Election. Board, 360 U. S. 45, 51. We
were speaking there of a state literacy test which we
sustained, warning that the result would be different if
a literacy test, fair on its face, were used to discriminate
Thornberry, speaking for the three-judge court which
recently declared the Texas poll tax unconstitutional, said: "If the
State of Texas placed a tax on the right to speak at the rate of one
dollar and seventy-five cents per year, no court would hesitate to
strike it. down as a blatant infringement of the freedom of speech.
Yet the poll tax as enforced in Texas is a tax on the equally important right to vote." 252 F. Supp. 234, 254 (decided February 9,
1966).
2.Judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

383 U. S.

against a class.' Id., at 53. But the Lassiter case does
not govern the result here, because, unlike a poll tax, the
"ability to read and write

.

. .

has some relation to

standards designed to promote intelligent use of the ballot." Id., at 51.
We conclude that a State violates the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment whenever it makes
the affluence of the voter or payment of any fee an electoral standard. Voter qualifications have no relation to
wealth nor to paying or not paying this or any other tax.
Our cases demonstrate that the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment restrains the States from
fixing voter qualifications which invidiously discriminate. Thus without questioning the power of a State to
impose reasonable residence restrictions on the availability of the ballot (see Pope v. Williams, 193 U. S.621), we
3 We recently held in Louisiana v. United States, 380 U. S. 145,
that a literacy test which gave voting registrars "a virtually uncontrolled discretion as to who should vote and who should not" (id.,
at 150) had been used to deter Negroes from voting and accordingly we struck it down. While the "Virginia poll tax was born
of a desire to disenfranchise the Negro" (Harman v. Forssenius,380
U. S. 528, 543), we do not stop to determine whether on this record
the Virginia tax in its modern setting serves the same end.
4 Only a handful of States today condition the franchise on the
payment of a poll tax. Alabama (Ala. Const., §§ 178, 194, Ind
Amendments 96 and 207; Ala. Code Tit. 17, § 12) and Texas (Tex.
Const., Art. 6, § 2; Vernon's Ann. Stat., Election Code, Arts. 5.02,
5.09) each impose a poll tax of $1.50. Mississippi (Miss. Const.,
§§ 241, 243; Miss. Code §§ 3130, 3160, 3235) has a poll tax of $2.
Vermont has recently eliminated the requirement that poll taxes be
paid in order to vote. Act of Feb. 23, 1966, amending Vt. Stat. Ann.
Tit. 24, § 701.
As already noted, note 2, supra, the Texas poll tax was recently
declared unconstitutional by a three-judge United States District
Court. United States v. Texas, 252 F. Supp. 234 (decided February
9, 1966). Likewise, the Alabama tax. United States v. Alabama,
252 F. Supp. 95 (decided March 3, 1966).

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

667

Opinion of the Court.

held in Carrington v. Rash, 380 U. S. 89, that a State
may not deny the opportunity to vote to a bona fide
resident merely because he is a member of the armed
services. "By forbidding a soldier ever to controvert
the presumption of non-residence, the Texas Constitution imposes an invidious discrimination in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment." Id., at 96. And see
Louisiana v. United States, 380 U. S. 145. Previously
we had said that neither homesite nor occupation "affords
a permissible basis for distinguishing between qualified
voters within the State." Gray v. Sanders, 372 U. S.
368, 380. We think the same must be true of requirements of wealth or affluence or payment of a fee.
Long ago in Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356, 370,
the Court referred to "the political franchise of voting"
as a "fundamental political right, because preservative of
all rights." Recently in Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S.533,
561-562, we said, "Undoubtedly, the right of suffrage is a
fundamental matter in a free and democratic society.
Especially since the right to exercise the franchise in a
free and unimpaired manner is preservative of other basic
civil and political rights, any alleged infringement of
the right of citizens to vote must be carefully and meticulously scrutinized." There we were considering charges
that voters in one part of the State had greater representation per person in the State Legislature than voters
in another part of the State. We concluded:
"A citizen, a qualified voter, is no more nor no
less so because he lives in the city or on the farm.
This is the clear and strong command of our Constitution's Equal Protection Clause. This is an
essential part of the concept of a government of laws
and not men. This is at the heart of Lincoln's
vision of 'government of the people, by the people,
[and] for the people.' The Equal Protection Clause

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
Opinion of the Court.

383 U. S.

demands no less than substantially equal state legislative representation for all citizens, of all places as
well as of all races." Id., at 568.
We say the same whether the citizen, otherwise qualified to vote, has $1.50 in his pocket or nothing at all,
pays the fee or fails to pay it. The principle that denies
the State the right to dilute a citizen's vote on account
of his economic status or other such factors by analogy
bars a system which excludes those unable to pay a fee
to vote or who fail to pay.
It is argued that a State may exact fees from citizens
for many different kinds of licenses; that if it can demand
from all an equal fee for a driver's license,5 it can demand
from all an equal poll tax for voting. But we must
remember that the interest of the State, when it comes to
voting, is limited to the power to fix qualifications.
Wealth, like race, creed, or color, is not germane to one's
ability to participate intelligently in the electoral process.
Lines drawn on the basis of wealth or property, like
those of race (Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214,
216), are traditionally disfavored. See Edwards v. California, 314 U. S. 160, 184-185 (Jackson, J., concurring);
Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U. S.12; Douglas v. California,372
U. S.353. To introduce wealth or payment of a fee as a
measure of a voter's qualifications is to introduce a capricious or irrelevant factor. The degree of the discrimination is irrelevant. In this context-that is, as a condition
of obtaining a ballot-the requirement of fee paying
causes an "invidious" discrimination (Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316 U. S. 535, 541) that runs afoul of the Equal
Protection Clause. Levy "by the poll," as stated in
Maine has a poll tax (Maine Rev. Stat. Ann. Tit. 36, § 1381)
which is not made a condition of voting; instead, its payment is a
condition of obtaining a motor vehicle license (Maine Rev. Stat.
Ann. Tit. 29, § 108) or a motor vehicle operator's license. Id., § 584.

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

669

Opinion of the Court.

Breedlove v. Suttles, supra, at 281, is an old familiar
form of taxation; and we say nothing to impair its validity
so long as it is not made a condition to the exercise of the
franchise. Breedlove v. Suttles sanctioned its use as "a
prerequisite of voting." Id., at 283. To that extent the
Breedlove case is overruled.
We agree, of course, with Mr. Justice Holmes that the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment "does
not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's Social Statics" (Lochner
v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 75). Likewise, the Equal
Protection Clause is not shackled to the political theory
of a particular era. In determining what lines are unconstitutionally discriminatory, we have never been confined to historic notions of equality, any more than we
have restricted due process to a fixed catalogue of what
was at a given time deemed to be the limits of fundamental rights. See Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1, 5-6.
Notions of what constitutes equal treatment for purposes
of the Equal Protection Clause do change. This Court
in 1896 held that laws providing for separate public facilities for white and Negro citizens did not deprive the latter of the equal protection and treatment that the
Fourteenth Amendment commands. Plessy v. Ferguson,
163 U. S. 537. Seven of the eight Justices then sitting
subscribed to the Court's opinion, thus joining in expressions of what constituted unequal and discriminatory
treatment that sound strange to a contemporary ear. 6
When, in 1954-more than a half-century later-we
repudiated the "separate-but-equal" doctrine of Plessy
6E. g., "We consider the underlying fallacy of the plaintiff's
argument to consist in the assumption that the enforced separation
of the two races stamps the colored race with a badge of inferiority.
If this be so, it is not by reason of anything found in the act, but
solely because the colored race chooses to put that construction
upon it." 163 U. S., at 551.

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

as respects public education we stated: "In approaching this problem, we cannot turn the clock back to 1868
when the Amendment was adopted, or even to 1896 when
Plessy v. Ferguson was written." Brown v. Board of
Education, 347 U. S. 483, 492.
In a recent searching re-examination of the Equal Protection Clause, we held, as already noted, that "the
opportunity for equal participation by all voters in the
election of state legislators" is required.' Reynolds v.
Sims, supra, at 566. We decline to qualify that principle
by sustaining this poll tax. Our conclusion, like that in
Reynolds v. Sims, is founded not on what we think
governmental policy should be, but on what the Equal
Protection Clause requires.
We have long been mindful that where fundamental
rights and liberties are asserted under the Equal Protection Clause, classifications which might invade or restrain
them must be closely scrutinized and carefully confined.
See, e. g., Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316 U. S. 535, 541;
Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533, 561-562; Carringtonv.
Rash, supra; Baxstrom v. Herold, ante, p. 107; Cox v.
Louisiana,379 U. S. 536, 580-581 (BLACK, J., concurring).
Those principles apply here. For to repeat, wealth
or fee paying has, in our view, no relation to voting
qualifications; the right to vote is too precious, too fundamental to be so burdened or conditioned.
Reversed.
dissenting.
In Breedlove v. Suttles, 302 U. S. 277, decided December 6, 1937, a few weeks after I took my seat as a member
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

'Segregated public transportation, approved in Plessy v. Ferguson,
supra, was held unconstitutional in Gayle v. Browder, 352 U. S. 903
(per curiam).
8 Only MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented, while MR.. JUSTICE CLARK
and MR. JUSTICE STEWART each concurred on-separate grounds.

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

BLACK,

671

J., dissenting.

of this Court, we unanimously upheld the right of the
State of Georgia to make payment of its state poll tax a
prerequisite to voting in state elections. We rejected
at that time contentions that the state law violated the
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
because it put an unequal burden on different groups of
people according to their age, sex, and ability to pay.
In rejecting the contention that the law violated the
Equal Protection Clause the Court noted at p. 281:
"While possible by statutory declaration to levy a
poll tax upon every inhabitant of whatsoever sex,
age or condition, collection from all would be impossible for always there are many too poor to pay."
Believing at that time that the Court had properly respected the limitation of its power under the Equal Protection Clause and was right in rejecting the equal
protection argument, I joined the Court's judgment and
opinion. Later, May 28, 1951, I joined the Court's
judgment in Butler v. Thompson, 341 U. S.937, upholding, over the dissent of MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, the V~rginia state poll tax law challenged here against the same
equal protection challenges. Since the Breedlove and
Butler cases were decided the Federal Constitution has
not been amended in the only way it could constitutionally have been, that is, as provided in Article V' of the
IArticle V of the Constitution provides:
"The Congress, whenever two-thirds of both Houses shall deem
it necessary, shall propose amendments to this Constitution, or, on
the application of the Legislatures of two-thirds of the several States,
shall call a convention for proposing amendments, which, in either
case, shall be valid to all intents and purposes, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three-fourths of the
several States, or by conventions in three-fourths thereof, as the
one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the Congress; provided that no amendment which may be made prior to
the year one thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any manner

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

3S3 U. S.

Constitution. I would adhere to the holding of those
cases. The Court, however, overrules Breedlove in part,
but its opinion reveals that it does so not by using its
limited power to interpret the original meaning of the
Equal Protection Clause, but by giving that clause a
new meaning which it believes represents a better
governmental policy. From this action I dissent.
It should be pointed out at once that the Court's deci.sion is to no extent based on a finding that the Virginia
law as written or as applied is being used as a device or
mechanism to deny Negro citizens of Virginia the right
to vote on account of their color. Apparently the Court
agrees with the District Court below and with my
Brothers HARLAN and STEWART that this record would
not support any finding that the Virginia poll tax law
the Court invalidates has any such effect. If the record
could support a finding that the law as written or applied has such an effect, the law would of course be unconstitutional as a violation of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments and also 42 U. S. C. § 1971 (a). This follows from our holding in Schnell v. Davis, 336 U. S.933,
affirming 81 F. Supp. 872 (D. C. S. D. Ala:); Gomillion
v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339; United States v. Mississippi,
380 U. S. 128; Louisiana v. United States, 380 U. S.145.
What the Court does hold is that the Equal Protection
Clause necessarily bars all States from making payment
of a state tax, any tax, a prerequisite to voting.
(1) I think the interpretation that this Court gave
the Equal Protection Clause in Breedlove was correct.
The mere fact that a law results in treating some groups
differently from others does not, of course, automatically
amount to a violation of the Equal Protection Clause.
affect the first and fourth clauses in the Ninth Section of the First
Article; and that no State, without its conient, shall be deprived
of its equal suffrage in the Senate."

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

BLACK,

673

J., dissenting.

To bar a State from drawing any distinctions in the
application of its laws would practically paralyze the
regulatory power of legislative bodies. Consequently
"The constitutional command for a state to afford 'equal
protection of the laws' sets a goal not attainable by
the invention and application of a precise formula."
Kotch v. River Port Pilot Comm'rs, 330 U. S.552, 556.
Voting laws are no exception to this principle. All votinig laws treat some persons differently from others in
some respects. Some bar a person from voting who is
under 21 years of age; others bar those under 18. Some
bar convicted felons or the insane, and some have attached a freehold or other property qualification for voting. The Breedlove case upheld a poll tax which was
imposed on men but was not equally imposed on women
and minors, and the Court today does not overrule that
part of Breedlove which approved those discriminatory
provisions. And in Lassiter v. Northampton Election
Board, 360 U. S.45, this Court held that state laws which
disqualified the illiterate from voting did not violate the
Equal Protection Clause. From these cases and all the
others decided by this Court interpreting the Equal Protection Clause it is clear that some discriminatory voting
qualifications can be imposed without violating the Equal
Protection Clause.
A study of our cases shows that this Court has refused
to use the general language of the Equal Protection
Clause as though it provided a handy instrument to
strike down state laws which the Court feels are based on
bad governmental policy. The equal protection cases
carefully analyzed boil down to the principle that distinctions drawn and even discriminations imposed by state
laws do not violate the Equal Protection Clause so long
as these distinctions and discriminations are not "irrational," "irrelevant," "unreasonable," "arbitrary," or "in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

3S3 U. S.

vidious." " These vague and indefinite terms do not,
of course, provide a precise formula or an automatic
mechanism for deciding cases arising under the Equal
Protection Clause. The restrictive connotations of these
terms, however (which in other contexts have been used
to expand the Court's power inordinately, see, e. g.,
cases cited at pp. 728-732 in Ferguson v. Skrupa, 372
U. S.726), are a plain recognition of the fact that under
a proper interpretation of the Equal Protection Clattse
States are to have the broadest kind of leeway in areas
where they have a general constitutional competence to
act.' In view of the purpose of the terms to restrain the
courts from a wholesale invalidation of state laws under
the Equal Protection Clause it would be difficult to say
that the poll tax requirement is "irrational" or "arbitrary" or works "invidious discriminations." State poll
tax legislation can "reasonably," "rationally" and without an "invidious" or evil purpose to injure anyone be
found to rest on a number of state policies including
(1) the State's desire to collect its revenue, and (2) its
belief that voters who pay.a poll tax will be interested
in furthering the State's welfare when they vote. Certainly it is rational to believ6 that people may be more
likely to pay taxes if payment is a prerequisite to voting.
And if history can be a factor in determining the "rationality" of discrimination in a state law (which we held it
could in Kotch v. River Port Pilot Comm'rs, supra),
then whatever may be our personal opinion, history is
See, e. g., Allied Stores of Ohio v. Bowers, 358 U. S. 522; Goesaert
v. Cleary, 335 U. S. 464; Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316 U. S. 535;
Minnesota v. Probate Court, 309 U. S. 270; Smith v. Cahoon, 283
U. S. 553; Watson v. Maryland, 218 U. S. 173.
:1"A statutory discrimination will not be set aside as the denial
of equal protection of the laws if any state of facts reasonably
may be conceived to justify it." Metropolitan Co. v. Brownell, 294
U. S. 580, 584 (Stone, J.).

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

BLACK,

675

J., dissenting.

on the side of "rationality" of the State's poll tax policy. Property qualifications existed in the Colonies and
were continued by many States after the Constitution
was adopted. Although I join the Court in disliking
the policy of the poll tax, this is not in my judgment a
justifiable reason for holding this poll tax law unconstitutional. Such a holding on my part would, in my judgment, be an exercise of power which the Constitution
does not confer upon me.4
(2) Another reason for my dissent from the Court's
judgment and opinion is that it seems to be using the old
"natural-law-due-process formula" ' to justify striking
down state laws as violations of the Equal Protection
Clause. I have heretofore had many occasions to express my strong belief that there is no constitutional support whatever for this Court to use the Due Process
Clause as though it provided a blank check to alter the
meaning of the Constitution as written so as to add to
it substantive constitutional changes which a majority of
4 The opinion of the Court, in footnote two, quotes language from
a federal district court's opinion which implies that since a tax on
speech would not be constitutionally allowed a tax which is a prerequisite to voting likewise cannot be allowed. But a tax or any
other regulation which burdens and actually abridges the right to
speak would, in my judgment, be a flagrant violation of the First
Amendment's prohibition against abridgments of the freedom of
speech which prohibition is made applicable to the States by the
Fourteenth Amendment. Cf. Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S.
105. There is no comparable specific constitutional provision absolutely barring the States from abridging the right to vote. Consequently States have from the beginning and do now qualify the
right to vote because of age, prior felony convictions, illiteracy, and
various other reasons. Of course the First and Fourteenth Amendments forbid any State from abridging a person's right to' seak
because he is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a felony,
or is illiterate.
See my dissenting opinion in Adamson v. California, 332 U. S.
46, 90.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

the Court at any given time believes are needed to meet
present-day problems.' Nor is there in my opinion any
more constitutional support for this Court to use the
Equal Protection Clause, as it has today, to write into the
Constitution its notions of what it thinks is good governmental policy. If basic changes as to the respective
powers of the state and national governments are needed,
I prefer to let those changes be made by amendment as
Article V of the Constitution provides. For a majority
of this Court to undertake that task, whether purporting
to do so under the Due Process or the Equal Protection
Clause amounts, in my judgment, to an exercise of power
the Constitution makers with foresight and wisdom refused to give the Judicial Branch of the Government. I
have in no way departed from the view I expressed in
Adamson v. California,332 U. S. 46, 90, decided June 23,
1947. that the "natural-law-due-process formula" under
which courts make the Constitution mean what they
think it should at a given time "has been used in the past,
and can be used in the future, to license this Court, in considering regulatory legislation, to roam at large in the
broad expanses of policy and morals and to trespass, all
too freely, on the legislative domain of the States as well
as the Federal Government."
The Court denies that it is using the "natural-lawdue-process formula." It says that its invalidation of
the Virginia law "is founded not on what we think governmental policy should be, but on what the Equal
Protection Clause requires." I find no statement in the
Court's opinion, however, which advances even a plausible argument as to why the alleged discriminations which
might possibly be effected by Virginia's poll tax law
are "irrational," "unreasonable," "arbitrary," or "invidSee for illustration my dissenting opinion in Griswold v. Connec'ticut, 381 U. S.479, 507, and cases cited therein.
6

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
6:3

677

B.ACK, 1., dissenltifg.

ious" or have no relevance to a legitimate policy which
the State wishes to adopt. The Court gives no reason
at all to discredit the long-standing beliefs that making
the payment of a tax a prerequisite to voting is an effective way of collecting revenue and that people who pay
their taxes are likely to have a far greater interest in
their government. The Court's failure to give any reasons to show that these purposes of the poll tax are "irra-'
tional," "unreasonable," "arbitrary," or "invidious" is a
pretty clear indication to me that none exist. I can
only conclude that the primary, controlling, predominant,
if not the exclusive reason for declaring the Virginia law
unconstitutional is the Court's deep-seated hostility and
antagonism, which I share, to making payment of a tax
a prerequisite to voting.
The Court's justification for consulting its own notions
rather than following the original meaning of the Constitution, as I would, apparently is based on the belief
of the majority of the Court that for this Court to be
bound by the original meaning of the Constitution is an
intolerable and debilitating evil; that our Constitution
should not be "shackled to the political theory of a particular era," and that to save the country from the original Constitution the Court must have constant power
to renew it and keep it abreast of this Court's more
enlightened theories of what is best for our society.7
In Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483, the Court today
purports to find precedent for using the Equal Protection Clause
to keel) the Constitution up to date. 1 did not vote to hold segregation in public schools unconstitutional on any such theory. I thought
when Brown was written, and I think now, that Mr. Justice Harlan
was correct in 1896 when he dissented from Plessy v. Ferguson, 163
U. S. 537, which held that it was not a discrimination prohibited by
the Equal Protection Clause for state law to segregate white and
colored people in public facilities, there railroad cars. I did not join
the opinion of the Court in Brown. on- any theory that segregation
where practiced in the public schools denied equal protection in

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
BLACK.,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

It seems to me that this is an attack not only on the
great value of our Constitution itself but also on the
concept of a written constitution which is to survive
through the years as originally written unless changed
through the amendment process which the Framers
wisely provided. Moreover, when a "political theory"
embodied in our Constitution becomes outdated, it
seems to me that a majority of the nine members of
this Court are not only without constitutional power
but are far less qualified to choose a new constitutional
-political theory than the people of this country proceeding in the manner provided by Article V.
The people have not found it impossible to amend
their Constitution to meet new conditions. The Equal
Protection Clause itself is the product of the people's
desire to use their constitutional power to amend the
Constitution to meet new problems. Moreover, the people, in §5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, designated the
1954 but did not similarly deny it in 1868 when the Fourteenth
Amendment was adopted. In my judgment the holding in Brown
against racial discrimination was compelled by the purpose of the
Framers of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments
'completely to outlaw discrimination against people because of their
race or color. See the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 71-72;
Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536, 541.
Nor does Malloy- v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 1, stand as precedent for
the amendatory power which the Court exercises today. The Court
in Malloy did not read into the Constitution its own notions of wise
crhninal procedure, but instead followed the doctrine of Palko v.
Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, and made the Fifth Amendment's unequivocal protection against self-incrimination applicable to the
States. I joined the opinion of the Court in Malloy on the basis of
my dissent in Adamson v. California, supra, in which I stated, at
p. 89:
"If the choice must be between the selective process of the Palko
decision applying some of the Bill of Rights to the States, or the
Twining rule applying none of them, I would choose the Palko
selective process."

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

BLACK, J.,

679

dissenting.

governmental tribunal they wanted to provide additional rules to enforce the guarantees of that Amendment. The branch of Government they chose was not
the Judicial Branch but the Legislative. I have no doubt
at all that Congress has the power under § 5 to pass legislation to abolish the poll tax in order to protect the citizens of this country if it believes that the poll tax is
being used as a device to deny voters equal protection
of the laws. See my concurring and dissenting opinion
in South Carolinav. Katzenbach, ante, p. 355. But this
legislative power which was granted to Congress by § 5
of the Fourteenth Amendment is limited to Congress.8
This Court had occasion to discuss this very subject in
Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 345-346. There this
Court said, referring to the fifth section of the
Amendment:
"All of the amendments derive much of their force
from this latter provision. It is not said the judicial
power of the general government shall extend to
enforcing the prohibitions and to protecting the
rights and immunities guaranteed. It is not said
that branch of the government shall be authorized
to declare void any action of a State in violation of
the prohibitions. It isthe power of Congress which
has been enlarged. Congress is authorized to enforce the prohibitions by appropriate legislation.
Some legislation is contemplated to make the amendments fully effective. Whatever legislation is apsBut § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment itself outlaws any state
law which either as written or as applied discriminates against voters
on account of race. Such a law can never be rational. "States
may do a good deal of classifying that it is difficult to believe
rational, but there are limits, and it is too clear for extended argument that color cannot be made the basis of a statutory classification affecting the right [to vote] set up in this case." Nixon v.
Herndon, 273 U. S. 536, 541 (Holmes, J.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

propriate, that is, adapted to carry out the objects
the amendments have in view, whatever tends to
enforce submission to the prohibitions they contain,
and to. secure to all persons the enjoyment of perfect
equality of civil rights and the equal protection of
the laws against State denial or invasion, if not prohibited, is brought' within the domain of congressional power." (Emphasis partially supplied.)
Thus § 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment in accordance
with our constitutional structure of government authorizes the Congress to pass definitive legislation to protect
Fourteenth Amendment rights which it has done many
times, e. g., 42 U. S. C. § 1971 (a). For Congress to do
this fits in precisely with the division of powers originally
entrusted to the three branches of government-Executive, Legislative, and Judicial. But for us to undertake
in the guise of constitutional interpretation to decide
the constitutional policy question of this case amounts,
in my judgment, to a plain exercise of power which the
Constitution has denied us but has specifically granted
to Congress. I cannot join in holding that the Virginia
state poll tax law violates the Equal Protection Clause.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

whom

MR. JUSTICE STEWART

joins, dissenting.
The final demise of state poll taxes, already totally
proscribed by the Twenty-Fourth Amendment with respect to federal elections and abolished by the States
themselves in all but four States with respect to state
elections,' is perhaps in itself not of great moment. But
the fact that the coup de grace has been administered by
this Court instead of being left to the affected States or
to the federal political process 2 should be a matter
"Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, and Virginia.
the Senate hearings leading to the passage of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965, some doubt was expressed whether state poll taxes
2 In

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

HARLAN,

681

J., dissenting.

of continuing concern to all interested in maintaining
the proper role of this tribunal under our scheme of
government.
I do not propose to retread ground covered in my dissents in Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533, 589, and
Carrington v. Rash, 380 U. S. 89, 97, and will proceed
on the premise that the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment now reaches both state apportionment (Reynolds) and voter-qualification (Carrington) cases. My disagreement with the present decision
is that in holding the Virginia poll tax violative of the
Equal Protection Clause the Court has departed from
long-established standards governing the application of
that clause.
The Equal Protection Clause prevents States from
arbitrarily treating people differently under their laws.
Whether any such differing treatment is to be deemed
arbitrary depends on whether or not it reflects an appropriate differentiating classification among those affected;
the clause has never been thought to require equal treatment of all persons despiie differing circumstances. The
test evolved by this Court for determining whether an
asserted justifying classification exists is whether such a
classification can be deemed to be founded on some
rational and otherwise constitutionally permissible state
policy. See, e. g., Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S.678;
Barrett v. Indiana, 229 U. S. 26; Walters v. City of
St. Louis, 347 U. S. 231; Baxstrom v. Herold, ante, p.
107. This standard reduces to a minimum the likelihood
that the federal judiciary will judge state policies in
terms of the individual notions and predilections of its
could be validly abolished
lative power under § 5 of
ings on S.1564 before the
Cong., 1st Sess., 194-197
question.

through the exercise of Congress' legisthe Fourteenth Amendment. See HearSenate Committee on the Judiciary, 89th
(1965). I intimate no view on that

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

3S3 U. S.

own members, and until recently it has been followed in
all kinds of "equal protection" cases.'
Reynolds v. Sims, supra, among its other breaks with
the past, also marked a departure from these traditional
and wise principles. Unless its "one man, one vote"
thesis of state legislative apportionment is'to be attributed to the unsupportable proposition that "Equal Protection" simply means indiscriminate equality, it seems
inescapable that what Reynolds really reflected was but
this Court's own views of how modern American representative government should be run.

For it can hardly

be thought that no other method of apportionment may
be considered rational. See the dissenting opinion of
3 1 think the somewhat different application of the Equal Protection Clause to racial discrimination cases finds justification in the
fact that insofar as that clause may embody a particular value
in addition to rationality, the historical origins of the Civil War
Amendments might attribute to racial equality this special status.
See, e. g., Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Shelley v. Kraemer,
334 U. S. 1; Takahashi v. Fish & Game Comm'n, 334 U. S. 410;
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483; Evans v. Newton,
382 U. S. 296; cf. Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214, 216.
See Tussman & tenBroek, The Equal Protection of the Laws, 37
Calif. L. Rev. 341 (1949); Wechsler, Toward Neutral Principles of
Constitutional Law, 73 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 33 (1959).
A similar characterization of indigency as a "neutral fact," irrelevant or suspect for purposes of legislative classification, has never
been accepted by this Court. See Edwards v. California,314 U. S.
160, 184-185 (Jackson, J., concurring). Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U. S.
12, requiring free trial transcripts for'indigent appellants, and Douglas v. California, 372 U. S. 353, requiring the appointment of counsel
for such appellants, cannot fairly be so interpreted for although
reference was made indiscriminately to both equal protection and
due process the analysis was cast primarily in terms of the latter.
More explicit attempts to infuse "Equal Protection" with specific
values have been unavailing. See, e. g., Patsone v. Pennsylvania,232
U. S. 138 (alienage); West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379
(sex); Kotch v. Board of River Port Pilot Comm'rs, 330 U. S. 552,
564 (Rutledge, J., dissenting) (consanguinity).

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

HARLAN,

683

J., disscntiiig.

STEWART, J., in Lucas v. Forty-Fourth General Assembly
of Colorado, 377 U. S. 713, 744, and my own dissenting
opinion in Reynolds v. Sims, supra, at pp. 615-624.

Following Reynolds the Court in Carrington v. Rash,
380 U. S. 89, applied the traditional equal protection standard in striking down a Texas statute disquali-

fying as voters in state elections certain members
of the

Armed Forces-of the United States.'

But today in hold-

ing unconstitutional state poll taxes and property
quali-

fications for voting and pro tanto overruling Breedlove
v. Suttles, 302 U. S. 277, and Butler v. Thompson,
341
U. S. 937, thc. Court reverts to the highly subjective
judicial approach manifested by Reynolds. In substance
the
Court's analysis of the equal protection issue
goes no

further

than to say that the electoral franchise

is

"precious" and "fundamental," ante,
p. 670, and to con-

clude that "[t]o introduce wealth or payment of a fee
as
a measure' of a voter's qualifications is to introduce
a

capricious or irrelevant factor," ante, p. 668. These
are
of course captivating phrases, but they are wholly
inadequate to satisfy the standard governing adjudication
of
the equal protection issue: Is there a fa'. onal
basis for

Virginia's poll tax as a voting qualification? I think the
answer to that questionis undoubtedly "yes.",
4So far as presently relevant, my dissent
in that case rested
not on disagreement with the equal protection standards
employed
by the Court but only on disagreement with their application
in that
instance. 380 U. S., at 99-101.
',I have no doubt that poll taxes that deny the right to vote
on
the basis of race or color violate the Fifteenth Amendment
and can
be struck down by this Court. That question is presented
to us
in Butts v. Harrison, No. 655, the companion case decided
today.
The Virginia poll tax is on its face applicable to all citizens,
and
there was no allegation that it was discriminatorily enforced.
The
District Court explicitly found "no racial discrimination
... in
its application as a condition to voting." 240 F. Supp.
270, 271.
Appellant in Butts, supra, argued first, that the Virginia
Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

Property qualifications and poll taxes have been a
traditional part of our political structure. In the Colonies the franchise was generally a restricted one.' Over
the years these and other restrictions were gradually
lifted, primarily because popular theories of political
7
representation had changed. Often restrictions were
lifted only after wide public debate. The issue of woman
suffrage, for example, raised questions of family relationships, of participation in public affairs, of the very nature
of the type of society in which Americans wished to live;
eventually a consensus was reached, which culminated
in the Nineteenth Amendment no more than 45 years
ago.
Similarly with property qualifications, it is only by
fiat that it can be said, especially in the context of
American history, that there can be no rational debate
as to their advisability. Most of the early Colonies had
them; many of the States have had them during much
of their histories; 8 and, whether one agrees or not, arguments have been and still can be made in favor of them.
For example, it is certainly a rational argument that paytional Convention of 1902, which framed the poll-tax provision, was
guided by a desire to reduce Negro suffrage, and second, that because
of the generally lower economic standard of Negroes as contrasted
with whites in Virginia the tax does in fact operate as a significant
obstacle to voting by Negroes. The Court does not deal with this
Fifteenth Amendment argument, and it suffices for me to say that
on the record here I do not believe that the factors alluded to are
sufficient to invalidate this $1.50 tax whether under the Fourteenth
or Fifteenth Amendment.
6See generally Ogden, The Poll Tax in the South 2 (1958);
1 Thorpe, A Constitutional History of the American People, 17761850, at 92-98 (1898); Williamson, American Suffrage From Property to Democracy, 1760-1860, cc. 1-4 (1960).
7See Porter, A History of Suffrage in the United States 77-111
(1918) ; Thorpe, op. cit. supra, at 97, 401; Williamson, op. cit. supra,
at 138-181.
8 See generally Ogden, op. cit. supra; Porter, op. cit. supra.

HARPER v. VIRGINIA BD. OF ELECTIONS.
663

HARLAN,

685

J., dissenting.

ment of some minimal poll tax promotes civic responsibility, weeding out those who do not care enough about
public affairs to pay $1.50 or thereabouts a year for the
exercise of the franchise. It is also arguable, indeed it
was probably accepted as sound political theory by a
large percentage of Americans through most of our history, that people with some property have a deeper stake
in community affairs, and are consequently more responsible, more educated, more knowledgeable, more worthy
of confidence, than those without means, and that the
community and Nation would be better managed if the
franchise were restricted to such citizens.' Nondiscriminatory and fairly applied literacy tests, upheld by this
Court in Lassiter v. Northampton Election Board, 360
U. S.45, find justification on very similar grounds.
These viewpoints, to be sure, ring hollow on most
contemporary ears. Their lack of acceptance today is
evidenced by the fact that nearly all of the States, left
to their own devices, have eliminated property or polltax qualifications; by the cognate fact that Congress and
three-quarters of the States quickly ratified the TwentyFourth Amendment; and by the fact that rules such as
' At the Constitutional Convention, for example, there was some
sentiment to prescribe a freehold qualification for federal elections
under Art. IV, § 1. The proposed amendment was defeated, in
part because it was thought suffrage qualifications were best left
to the States. See II Records of the Federal Convention 201-210
(Farrand ed. 1911). Madison's views were expressed as follows:
"Whether the Constitutional qualification ought to be a freehold,
would with him depend much on the probable reception such a
change would meet with in States where the right was now exercised
by every description of people. In several of the States a freehold
was now the qualification. Viewing the subject in its merits alone,
the freeholders of the Country would be the safest depositories of
Republican liberty." Id., at 203. See also Aristotle, Politics, Bks.
III, IV; I Tocqueville, Democracy in America, c. xiii, at 199-202
(Knopf ed. 1948).

OCTOBER TERM, 1965.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

383 U. S.

the "pauper exclusion" in Virginia law, Va. Const. § 23,
Va. Code § 24-18, have never been enforced."
Property and poll-tax qualifications, very simply, are
not in accord with current egalitarian notions of how a
modern democracy should be organized. It is of course
entirely fitting that legislatures should modify the law
to reflect such changes in popular attitudes. However, it
is all wrong, in my view, for the Court to adopt the political doctrines popularly accepted at a particular moment
of our history and to declare all others to be irrational
and invidious, barring them from the range of choice by
reasonably minded people acting through the political
process. It was not too long ago that Mr. Justice
Holmes felt impelled to remind the Court that the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not
enact the laissez-faire theory of society, Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, 75-76. The times have changed, and
perhaps it is appropriate to observe that neither does
the Equal Protection Clause of that Amendment rigidly
impose upon America an ideology of unrestrained
egalitarianism.11
I would affirm the decision of the District Court.

10See Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections, 240 F. Supp.
270, 271.
11 Justice Holmes' admonition is particularly appropriate: "Some
of these laws embody convictions or prejudices which judges are
likely to share. Some may not. But a constitution is not intended
to embody a particular economic theory, whether of paternalism and
the organic relation of the citizen to the State or of laissez faire.
It is made for people of fundamentally differing views, and the
accident of our finding certain opinions natufal and familiar or novel
and even shocking ought not to conclude our judgment upon the
question whether statutes embodying them conflict with the Constitution of the United States." 198 U. S., at 75-76.

