NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
Syllabus.

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK

ET AL.

ON MOTION OF THE CITY OF PHILADELPHIA FOR LEAVE TO
INTERVENE.

No. 5, Original, October Term, 1950. Argued March 9, 1953.Decided April 6, 1953.
New Jersey brought an original suit in this Court against the State
of New York and the City of New York to enjoin a proposed
diversion of Delaware River water by the City of New York from
tributaries within the State of New York. Pennsylvania intervened pro interesse suo and participated actively in the litigation.
In 1931, this Court entered a decree, 283 U. S. 805, enjoining
the State of New York and the City of New York from diverting
more than a specified amount of water per day and providing that
any party might apply for a modification of the decree at any
time. In 1952, the City of New York, with the approval and support of the State of New York, moved to modify the decree so
as to provide for the diversion of additional quantities of water.
New Jersey and Pennsylvania filed answers opposing such modification. Subsequently, the City of Philadelphia moved for leave
to intervene, asserting its interest in the use of Delaware River
water and pointing to the recent grant of a Home Rule Charter
as justification for intervention at this point. Held: The motion
for leave to intervene is denied. Pp. 370-375.
(a) Since Pennsylvania is a party to this suit, which involves a
matter of its sovereign interest, it must be deemed to represent all
of its citizens and creatures. Kentucky v. Indiana, 281 U. S. 163.
Pp. 372-373.
(b) An intervenor whose state is already a party to an original
action has the burden of showing some compelling interest in its
own right, apart from its interest in a class with all other citizens
and creatures of the state, which interest is not properly represented by its state; and Philadelphia has not met that burden.
Pp. 373-374.
(c) That Philadelphia now has a Home Rule Charter and is
now responsible for her own water system does not require a different result, since that responsibility is invariably served by the
Commonwealth's position. P. 374.
(d) The presence in this litigation of New York City, which
was joined as a defendant to the original action, is not a sufficient
justification for permitting the City of Philadelphia to intervene.
Pp. 374-375.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

345 U. S.

Abraham L. Freedpan argued the cause for the City
of Philadelphia. With him on the brief was Robert M.
Landis.
John P. McGrath argued the cause for the City of
New York, defendant. With him on the brief were
Denis M. Hurley, Jeremiah M. Evarts, James J. Thornton and Richard H. Burke.
Edward L. Ryan, Assistant Attorney General, argued
the cause for the State of New York, defendant. With
him on the brief were Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney
General, and Wendell P. Brown, Solicitor General.
Bernard G. Segal argued the cause for the State of
Pennsylvania, intervenor. With him on the brief were
Robert E. Woodside, Attorney General, George G.
Chandler, Wm.A. Schnader and Harry F. Stambaugh.
Kenneth H. Murray argued the cause for the State of
New Jersey, complainant. With him on the brief were
Theodore D. Parsons,Attorney General, Robert Peacock,
Deputy Attorney General, and Oscar R. Wilensky.
PER CURIAM.

The City of Philadelphia has moved this Court for
leave to intervene in this original action concerning distribution of Delaware River water. Argument was heard
on the motion on March 9, 1953, with all interested parties appearing.
The suit, addressed to this Court's original jurisdiction,
was brought by the State of New Jersey, in 1929, against
the State of New York and the City of New York, praying for injunctive relief against a proposed diversion of
Delaware River water from tributaries within the State
of New York. New Jersey joined the City of New York
as a defendant, because the City, acting under State authority, was planning the actual diversion of the water

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
369

Opinion of the Court.

for its use. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania immediately petitioned for leave to intervene pro interesse suo.
Leave to intervene was granted, upon condition that the
Commonwealth file a statement of her interest in the
cause and of the relief, if any, which she sought. 280
U. S. 528. Pennsylvania filed her Statement of Interest
and Relief on January 10, 1930, and thereafter became an
active party in the proceedings before the Special Master.
In 1931, this Court confirmed the Special Master's Report,
283 U. S.336, and entered its decree in conformity therewith, 283 U. S.805.
The 1931 decree enjoined the State of New York and
the City of New York from diverting from the Delaware
River or its tributaries more than .440 million gallons
daily, subject to a prescribed formula for the release of
storage water during periods of low flow.. The decree
further provided:
"6. Any of the parties hereto, complainant, defendants or intervener, may apply at the foot of this
decree for other or further action or relief and this
Court retains jurisdiction of the suit for the purpose
of any order or direction or modification of this decree, or any supplemental decree that it may deem
at any time to be proper in relation to the subject
matter in controversy." Id., at p. 807.
On April 1, 1952, the City of New York, with the approval and support of the State of New York, moved
under paragraph 6 of the' 1931 decree for leave to file its
petition to modify the decree by providing for diversion
of additional quantities of water and for changes in the
prescribed formula for releasing water during low flow.
The motion was granted. 343 U. S. 974. New Jersey
and Pennsylvania filed answers opposing the proposed
modifications, and the whole matter was referred to a
Special Master. Ibid.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

345 U. S.

On December 13, 1952,- the City of Philadelphia filed
this motion for leave to intervene. The petition asserts
Philadelphia's unquestioned interest in the use of Delaware River water and points to the recent grant of herHome Rule Charter as justification for intervention at
this point. All of the present parties to the litigation
have formally opposed the motion to intervene on
grounds (1) that the intervention would permit a suit
against a state by a citizen of another state in contravention of the Eleventh Amendment; (2) that the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has the exclusive right to represent the interest of Philadelphia as parens patriae; and
(3) that intervention should be denied, in any event, as
a matter of sound discretion. Philadelphia contends
that the matter is entirely within the sound discretion
of this Court, which should be exercised as prayed to
assure that every worth-while interest is represented in
the ultimate decree.
The view we take of the matter makes it unnecessary
to decide whether Philadelphia's intervention in the
pending litigation would amount to, a ". . . suit in law
or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the
United States by Citizens of another State . . ." in violation of the Eleventh Amendment. For the same reasons, we are not concerned with so much of the "parens
patriae" argument as may be only a restatement of the
proposition that original jurisdiction against a state can
only be invoked by another state acting in its sovereign
capacity on behalf of its citizens. Cf. New Hampshire v.
Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76 (1883); North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365 (1923). The "parens patriae"
doctrine, however, has aspects which go beyond mere
restatement of the Eleventh Amendment; it is a recognition of the principle that the state, when a party to a
suit involving a matter of sovereign interest, "must be
deemed to represent all its citizens." ' Kentucky v. In-

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
369

Opinion of the Court.

diana, 281 U. S. 163, 173-174 (1930). The principle is
a necessary recognition of sQvereign dignity, as well as a
working rule for good judicial administration. Otherwise, a state might be .judicially impeached on matters
of policy by its own subjects, and there would be no practical limitation on the number of citizens, as such, who
would be entitled to be made parties.
The case before us demonstrates the wisdom of the
rule. The City of Philadelphia represents only a part of
the citizens of Pennsylvania who reside in the watershed
area of the Delaware River and its tributaries and depend
upon those waters.* If we undertook to evaluate all the
separate interests within Pennsylvania, we could, in
effect, be drawn into an intramural dispute over the
distribution of water within the Commonwealth. Furthermore, we are told by New Jersey that there are
cities along the Delaware River in that State which, like
Philadelphia, are responsible for their own water systems, and which will insist upon a right to intervene if
Philadelphia is admitted. Nor is there any assurance
that the list of intervenors could be closed with political
subdivisions of the states. Large industrial plants which,
like cities, are corporate creatures of the state may
represent interests just as substantial.
Our original jurisdiction should not be thus expanded
to the dimensions of ordinary class actions. An intervenor whose state is already a party should. have the
burden of showing some compelling interest in his own
right, apart from his interest in a class with all other
citizens and creatures of the state, which interest is not
properly represented by the state. See Kentucky v. Indiana,supra. Philadelphia has not met that burden and,
*Census figures for 1950 show that there were 4,061,420 Pennsylvania citizens within the watershed, of which 2,071,605, or about half,
are in Philadelphia.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
Opinion of the Court.

345 U. S.

therefore, even if her intervention would not amount to
a suit against a state within the proscription of the
Eleventh Amendment (and we do not intend to give any
basis for implying that it does), leave to intervene must
be denied.
Pennsylvania intervened in 1930, pro interesse suo, to
protect the rights and interests of Philadelphia and Eastern Pennsylvania in the Delaware River. The Commonwealth opposed New Jersey's position based on commonlaw riparian rights, since that proposition threatened the
right of Philadelphia and Eastern Pennsylvania to continue their use and development of the Delaware River
and its Pennsylvania tributaries. Pennsylvania's position was based upon the doctrine of fair and equitable
apportionment, and New York's proposed diversion had
to be resisted to the extent it might amount to a diversion
of more than a fair and equitable share. This Court recognized the propriety of Pennsylvania's peculiar position,
based on the interests of its citizens, and permitted intervention over vigorous opposition that the intervenor must
be aligned either with plaintiff or defendant.
Pennsylvania's position remains vigorous and unchanged in the face of the petition for additional diversion. She is opposed to any such additional diversion not
justified under the doctrine of equitable apportionment.
Counsel for the City of Philadelphia have been unable to
point out a single concrete consideration in respect to
which the Commonwealth's position does not represent
Philadelphia's interests. We do not see how Philadelphia's Home Rule Charter changes the situation. Though
Philadelphia is now responsible for her own water system under the Charter, that responsibility is invariably
served by the Commonwealth's position.
The presence of New York City in this litigation is
urged as a reason for permitting Philadelphia to intervene. But the argument misconstrues New York City's

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK.
369

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

position in the case. New York City was not admitted
into this litigation as a matter of discretion at her request. She was forcibly joined as a defendant to the
original action since she was the authorized agent for
the execution of the sovereign policy which threatened
injury to the citizens of New Jersey. Because of this
position as a defendant, subordinate to the parent state
as the primary defendant, New York City's position in
the case raises no problems under the Eleventh Amendment. Wisconsin v. Illinois and Sanitary District of
Chicago, 278 U. S. 367 (1929), and 281 U. S. 179 (1930);
cf. Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230 (1907).
New York City's position is not changed by virtue of the
fact that she is presently the moving party, so long as
the motion for modification of the 1931 decree comes
within the scope of the authorization of paragraph 6 of
that decree.
The motion for leave to intervene and file an answer is,
therefore,
Denied.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK joins,

dissenting.
We desire the record to show why we would allow
Philadelphia to intervene in this case.
The city, of course, is not an indispensable party, and
it is generally bad policy to encumber any case with unnecessary intervenors. We have no doubt whatever that
counsel for the Commonwealth will faithfully and ably
represent the interests of all of its inhabitants, including
those of Philadelphia. Nonetheless, we would allow the
intervention because of circumstances peculiar to this
case.
We do not write today upon a clean slate. New York
City, as well as New York State, is a party to this action.
It is true that the city was made a defendant in the origi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1952.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

345 U. S.

nal case. But that case was long ago decided. New York
City is the moving party now, in reopening the decree.
The interests of municipality and state are no more separate in the case of New York than of Philadelphia. Both
cities have home-rule powers and vital interests in this
litigation. New York City is the real party in interest
in the current application for a modification of an existing
decree and it is in a position to present its own claims.
We would allow Philadelphia's motion to present any
proper evidence that it deems protective of its interest.
This would not be merely a favor to that city. It would
also protect the position of this Court if the master should
report in favor of New York, and Philadelphia, with the
wisdom that comes from hindsight, should ask to oppose
confirmation upon the ground that its interests had not
had full consideration.
It is objected that, if Philadelphia is admitted, other
municipalities may apply. That may be so. We are not
believers in town-meeting lawsuits. But certainly few
others could show comparable home-rule power and magnitude of interest, and we must not forget that this is
no ordinary lawsuit. It may have grave consequences
upon one or the other or both municipalities. Since the
Court is hearing one of them, we would bear with some
inconvenience rather than have the other aggrieved from
the beginning by being shut out.

