OF THE UNITED STATES.

415
1816.
U. States
V.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

The UN'ITED STATES 1). COOLIDGE, et. a
Quere, whether the courts of the United States have jurisdiction of
offences at common law against the United States?

Tins was an indictment in the circuit court for the
district of Massachusetts, against the defendants, for
fbrcibly rescuing a prize, which had been captured
and taken possession of by two American privateers.
The captured vessel was on her way, under the direction of a prize master and crew, to the port of Salem for adjudication. Thi indictment lai.d the offence as committed upon the high seas. The question made was, whether the circuit court his jurisdiction over common law offences against the United
States ? on which the judges of that court were divided in opinion.
The Attorney-General stated that he had given to
this case an anxious attention; as much so, he hoped,
as his public duty, under whatever view of it, rendered necessary. That he had also examined the opinion of the court, delivered at February term, 1813,
in the case of the United States v. Hudson and
Goodwin. That considering the point as decided in
that case, whether with, or without, ai'gument, ou
the part of those who had preceded him as the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.416
1816.

sentative of the goyernment in this court, he desired

S

respectfully to state, without saying more, that it waF
not his intention to argue it now..

U.CStates

Coolidge.

J." I do not take the question to be settled by that case.
,STORY,

JoHjso-, T. I consider it to be settled by the- authority of that ca.
Whenever counsel can be found
ready to argue it, I shall devest myself of all prejudiGe
arising from that case.
WAsHINGTON,

J.

LiviNGs,'oN, J. I am disposed to hear an argument o the point. This case- was brought up for
that purpose, bui until the question is re-argued, the
case of the United States v. Hudson and Goodwin
must be taken as law.
March 21st.

J. delivered the opinion,ot the court.
Upon the question now before the court a differ..
ence of opinion has existed, and still exists, among
the members of the court. We should, therefore,
have been willing to have heard the question discussed upon solemn argument. But the attorney-general has declined to argue.,the cause; and no counsel
appears for the defendant. Under these circumstances the court would not choose to review their former decision in the case of the United States v.
Hudson and Goo'dwin, or draw it into doubt. They
JOHNSON,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

wil, therefore, certify an qpinion to the circuit court

in conformity with that decision.

a Vide, 1 Gallison, 488, for the jurisdiction are cognizable by the
learned and elaborate opinion of circuit court, and in the absence
Mr. 3. STORY, in the circuit court, of positive law, are punishable by
in this case, tending to show that fine and imprisonment.
all offences within the admiralty

t :(

"PRIZE.)

The St. ,Xicholas.-MEYER ET AL. Claimants.
-1 question of proprietary interest.
Where enemy's property is fraudulently blended in the same claim
with neutral property, the latter is liable to sbare the fate of the
former.

APPEAL from the circuitcourt of Georgia. This ves-

sel and the cargo were libelled as prize of war. The
ship was claimed by John

.

Smith, the supercargo,

in behalf of John Meyer, alleged to be a Russian
subject residing at St Petersburg.

The cargo con-

sisted of logwood and cotton, 200 bales of which
were claimed by Smith, in behalf of Platzman &

Gosler, al.o alleged to be Russian merchants of St.
Petersburg. The remainder of the cargo, consisting
of 950,.bales of cotton, and 58 1o1s of logwood were
I ni.T.

Ir

1816.
Thi
.St. Nicbolas

Certificate for the defendant.0

-*C

417

