OF THE UNITED STATES.

versed; and that the cause be remanded to that

1816.

court, with directions to order the land claimed by
the appellant to be surveyed conformably to his lov.
cation. In doing this, a point will be taken one mile Lapsley.
and a half due north of the buffalo lick mentioned
in Pihn's. en.try,.from which it line is to be ext6hided east and west, to equal distances,- until it
shall 'or'm the base of a square to contain 2,000 acres
of -land, which is to lib north of -the said line.
•Decree r&e'ersed.

(CHANCERY.)

J. & T., BARR v. LAPSLY ET AL.
A question under a bill in equity, to obtain a specific performance of
an alleged agreement to receive a quantity of cotton bagging, it a
specified price,. in satisfaction. of certain judgments at law. Bill
dismissed.

APPEAL from the 6ircuit coui-t of the district of
Columbia. This. cause was argued by Jones, for the
appellants and compldihants, ahd Hamer, for the respondeit 'nfid defendaht
Joif.is6

,., deliverekthe opinion of the court.

The object of thi bill' is, t'obtain a'specific performance of an alleged agreement to receive a quan-

March'6fL

152.
1816.
B]arr

v.

CASES IN TfE "SUfPREME COURT

tity 'of- cotton 'ba gini, at a specified prie, in'satis

fa'ctioi of ceitain
at law. The defdandtA
- P judgments
11

deny that thd circumstances pioved ever rende~red

the agieement final and obligatory up6n them; Ind
this is the principal, perhaps the only, questionth .
ease presents.
It appears that the6 complaikants were indebted t&
.oneWest, who assigned this debt, (then iMliquidited,) together wit the residue-of his estate; "td
Lapsley et- al.; that Lapsley liquidated the debt
with'th Barrs, and took their note's payable at diffe.,;nt periods, making up, together,' the amount due.
These notes having become due, and judgment 'being recovered on some of them; in October, 1811,
the Barrs addressed a letter to Lapsley, in which.
they offer to pay himi'in cotton bagging, at thirty.
three -cents per yard, by instalments, at 'certain peri-ods. On the 17th of December, in'the same year;
Lapsley aiswered theiir communication, and the following.words, contained in .that letter, are all'that
the co9irt deem material to the point on which they
propose 'to found their decision. " We are willing
to take cotton bagging in liquidation of the tirme
last notes, delivered at the period-you propose, but
not:at the price you offer it." "We ei/et that yoa
give us sdtisfactory accounts for the punctual perfQrpance of your engagemenIs, and to this effect
We shal direct Mr. M'1Cu., ta whom"we propose to
Write bythe nex mail." On another passage of this
letter, and a letter written by West, oh the 18th 'of
December, it has been contended, that certain conditiWnis' were 'imposed upon the'Barrs, which it was

oF T1 '-IUITEDI

STATrA

hicumbent upon them to ,onpiy with, befdre they

oud claim ihe" leiefit of thib offer contained in

15

1816.

V.
Lapsley's letter. Bik4 isthg, opiiioi i f this court'
isiiae.up .oA a gimund .wholly-uhaffeeted by tbi lbyI
*questioi, we deeint unn'cessaryt notike this point.->

It appears 'thAt-apsl.by never, in fact, inastruicted
MiCotrion the siibject. Qf 'this ette. of the 17th o '
Dbcember; -But Warfield; the agent 6f the..Barrs;
(who were .absent from home oh the re.ceip.t of that,
lettet,) .supposing 'his. principals to be referied to
M'CQor 4s the authori.ed agent of Lapsley, notifiecl
to hi.i'the 'acceptance of Lapsley's offer, arid re-;
rhainhed. uan~de.' -th iipiession thAi the agreeMeft
hd.becgme. final, notJhstanding.M'Coi n's declin'ijg,-6Itogethrj to. act, for wait of3.sti-uetioas,
Lpsley, dn the ither hnd; aflege , thai ,he notification.of acceptance 'ought to hi.re been re e to hibielf,-and 'assigns the Want of an gnswer ffii the
B,*Ia his r'eason 'foi never hav'ing.giveh instriicrCmi;
tiongtoM
This state of facts. prese~is ar 4iern lve of
extreme difficulty. On the one hand; Lapslkq by
direct M'MICun by the' ie'xt
wring that 'he sh
rnail, pkflii point~d- to a mode of expditing th.e
onelusion of the agreeinet, through 66 age.cy of
-repregentatie op:the spoi, and whnlie initimratea
by the .next mail, showed that
.bis, intention'to write
.
it-'was not his intention to Awat Barr's answer.. This
Was well .
6ulated to deutde -Barrinto'theidea thatLapsley. would repognie -no notification but that
which.'shoula be 4de. to M'(oun. On the other
hand4 h w -far could M'Cot, unempowered, uubb
ti
Vo. 1

154;
Barr
V."

Lapaey.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"

strueted as he was, legally act, to bind Lapsley by'
his acceptance of the notification?' Or, if he had
received instructions from Lapsley, what obligation
was he under to have undertaken the agency ? Under the pressure of this dilemma, there is but one'
principle to which the court can resort for a satisfactory decision. Something remained for Barr to do,
The notification of his acteptance was necessary to
asten the agre'ement upon Lapsley. For this purpose, he very rationally addressed himself, in the
first place, to M'Coun; and the reference to Lapsley's letter would have been a sufficient excuse for
nbt returning an answer until a reasonable time had
elapsed for M'Coun to receive the expected communicatio n from Lapsley. But when he found M'Coun
uninstructed, and unwilling. to act under the letter
addresSiec to Barr, his course was plain and unequivocal. A letter to Lapsley, transmitted by the.
mail, would have put an end to all doubt and difficulty. This is the method he ought to have pursaed, and -far not having pursued this course, we are
of opinion that the bill was properly dismissed below,
Decree affirmed.a
a fn England the court of
chancery will not, in general, enterain a bill for aspecific performtnce of contracts for the sale of
chattels, or which relate to merchandise, but leaves the parties to
tbeir remedy, at law, where it is
lbuch inore expeditious. ' One
exception to this general rule is
where the agreement is not final,

but is. to be made coniplete by
subsequent acts, without which it
would- be deemed impirfeut at
law.' 3 .917c. 383. Buxton v. Lister et al.
I Pere iRJ. 570.
Bunb. 135. 10 Ves. jun. 161.

The ground upon which a specific
performance is refused, in these

cases, is, that.an adequate remedy
exists at. law, where damage&

61' THI UNITED STATZ$.
,ay berecovered, and that the
value of merchandise varies so
much at different times, and under iffterent circumstances,*as to
q~der it frequently unjust tocom-

.1
&
bond which had bedn forfejtel for
not transferring stock at a given
day, according to his agreement Danforths
Lessee
the English cout~t of chancery
decreed him to transfer the 'stock
V.

ptl a specific performance. Bdt
w-here the question was, upon
w4at tenms a party should be relieyed agpinst the penalty- of a

in specie, and to' accovnt for all
dividends accrued since lie ought
to have transferred it. 2 Vemn.
394. 1 Oro. ParZ. Gas. 19$'

,o

rquetlyunjst
ocodcred hm t trnsfr te

sock

(LOCAL LAW.)
DAN ORTH'S

THoiMI"'.
LESSEE .P.

'The net of assembly of North Carolina, passed Tetween the.year 178$
and 1789, avoids-all entries, surveys, and grants.of lands'iet apart
for the Cherokee Indfans, artd no title can be thereby acquired to
tuph lands.
The 'oundaries of the reservation have been altered by successive
treaties with the Indians, but itseems that the mere extinguishment
of their title did iot subject the land to appropriations, unless .e
pressly authorized by the legislature.

to the circuit court for the district of East
•Tennessee.. This cause, depending mainly dn the
same principles with the preceding case of. Presto
v. Browder," was argued by Key for. the plaintiff,
and by Jones for the defendant in error. -The .fact
ge fully stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

t Ante, p. 115-

Thomas.

