CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816,
Matson
V.
Hord.

vage of one half was allowed by
the court, and as to the residue, it
was determined that it must stand
on the same footing with other
property found within the territory at the declaration of war, and
might be claimed upon the termination of war, unless previously

confiscated by the sovereign power. The court, therefore, made
such order respecting it as would
preserve it, subject to the will of
the court, to be disposed of as future circumstances might render
proper.

(LOCAL LAW.)

MATSON V. HORD.
Tbe law of Kentucky requires, in the location of warrants for land,
some general description designating the place where the particular
object is to be found, and a. description of the particular object itself.
The general description must be such as will enable a person intending to locate the adjaeent residuum, and using reasonable care and
diligence, to find the object mentioned in that particular place, ancl
avoid the land already located. If the description will fit another
place better, or equally well, it is defective.
- The Hunter's trace, leading from Bryant's station over to the waters
of Hinkston, on the dividing ridge between the waters of Hinkston
and the waters of Elkhorn," is a defective description, and will iiot
sustain the entry.

APPEAL

from a decree in chancery in the circuit

court of Kentucky.

This cause was argued by

Hughes and Talbot, for the appellants, and Hardin,
for the respondents. It was, principally, a question
of fact arising under the local laws of real property
in Kentucky, for an outline of which the general

reader is referred to the

APPENDIX,

note I., where

OF THE UNITED STATES.

will be found an exposition of the elementary principles applicable to this class of causes.

1816.
M~atson
V.

MARSHALL,

Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the

court, as follows:
This is an ap:;eal from a decree of the circuit
court of Kentucky, by which the plaintiff's bill was'
dismissed.
The object of the suit is to- enjoin the proceedings
of the defendant at law, arid to obtain from him a
conveyance for so much of the land coitained in his
patent as interferes with the entry and survey made'
by the plaintiff.
The plain-tiff claims by virtue of an entry made
on the 17th of January, 1784, the material part of
which is set forth in the bill in these words: "Richard Masterson enters 22,277 and a half acres of
land, on treasury warrant No. 19,455, to be laid Qff
in a parallelogram twice as long as wide, to include
a mulberry tree marked thus, " F," and two hiccories, with four chops in each, to include the said three
marked trees near the centre thereof; the said trees
standing near the Hunter's trace, leading from Bryant's station over to the waters of Hinkston, on the
dividing ridge between the waters of Hinkston and
the waters of Elkhorn." This entry has been surveyed, he states, according to location, and that part'of it. which covers- the land in controversy has been
assigned to him.
The validity of this entry constitutes the most essential point in tle present controversy. If it cannot
be sustained, there is an end of the plaintiff's title c

I-ord.
March 5t.h

-132
1816.

" Tatson
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

if it can, other points arise in the case which must
be decided.
This question depends on the construction of that
clause in' the land law which requires that warrants
shall be located so specially and precisely, as that
others may be enabled, with certainty, to locate other
warrants onithe adjacent residuum.
In the epnstruction of an act so interesting to the
people of Kentucky, it is of vital importance that
principle, be adhered to with care, and that as much
uniformity as is practicable be observed in judicial
decisions. This court has ever sought, with solicitude,
for the true spirit of the law, as settled in -the state
tribunals, and has conformed its 'judgments to the
rules of those tribunals whenever it has been able
to find them established.
In the cases which have been, on dif erent occasions, examined, that absolute certainty which would
remove every doubt from the mind of a subsequent
locator, appears never to have been required. The
courts of Kentucky have viewed locations with that
indulgence which the state of the country, and the
general character of those who first explored- and
settled it, would seem tojustify; and have required
onlx that reasonable certainty, which was attainable
in such a country, and might be expected from such
men as were necessarily employed. The 'effort has
been to sustain rather than to avoid entries; and,
-alth 9 ugh the motives which led to this course of adjudication are inapplicable to late entries, made on
land supposed to be previously appropriated, yet it
is not understood that different rules of construction

OF THE UNITED STATES.'

have. ever been applied to entries of difirent
dates.
By these rules, a certainty to a common intent, a
description which will not mislead a subsequent loeator, which will conduct him, if.he uses reasonable
care and diligence, to the placd where the objects
are to be fourld, will satisfy the law, and sustain the
,entry; but such a certainty must exist, or the entry
cannot be sustained.
A location usually consists of some gener.., description which designates the place in which'thb
particular object is to be found, and of a description
of the particular object itself. The general description must be such as would en able a mian 'intending
td locate thp adjacent residuum, by makingo -those
inquiries which would be in his poiter.; and which
he would naturally make, to know the place in which
he- was- to search for the particular or locative call,
so nearly, that, by a reasonable search, he might
find the object mentioned in that particular or locative call, and avoid the land located. If-the description will fit a different place better, .or equally well,
-it is too defective, because, if it does not mislead the
subsequent locator, it leaves him in doubt where to
search.
The gerieral descriptionin this case is, " the Hunter's trace, leading fr6m Bryant's station over. to-the
waters.'of Hinkston, on the dividing ridge- between
the waters of Hinkston and the waters of Elkhoin.":
Will this description designate the place in which
the trees called for in the location are.to be'found ?

133
18'16.
Matdon

v.

Hord.

CASES IN THE SURREME COURT

1816.

,
MV
atson
V.
Hord.

Bryant's station is a fixed place of public notorle%
ty. It is on the great road leading from Lexington
to Limestone, on the Ohio, which toad crosses the
dividing ridge between the waters of Elkhorn and
Licking, which is the ridge mentioned in Masterson's
entry. This road had been travelled by hunters,
but .seems to have been known by the name of the
Blue Lick, or Buffalo trace, and not by the name of
the Hunter's trace.
A trace which was, at the time, called the Hun,
ter's trace, leaves this great -road at Bryant's station,
and proceeds in a direction west of north, until it
crosses North Elkhorn, where it divides: the leffhand, or more western trace, after entering a road
leading fiom Lexington to Riddle's station, on Licking, or that branch of Licking called Hinkston,
crosses the dividing ridge about the head waters of
a creek now called Townsend, which empties into
the stream running by Riddle's station a little above
that station: This creek was; in the yea" 1784,
known by the name of Hinkston Creek, or, perhaps,
Hinkston's Mill Creek.
The righti or more eastern fork, again divides
nearly two miles before it reaches the dividing ridge.
Each of these traces crosses the dividing ridge to
the head waters of Cooper's run, which empties into
Stoner's fork. The more eastern of them crosses
Stoner's fork, and, passing Mastin's station, terminates very near that place. Cooper's run empties
into Stoner's fork, which either empties" into Hinkston, and then passing by Riddle's station, empties
into Licking; or, uniting with Hinkston, forms the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

south fork of Licking, and passes Riddle's station
be .
with that name. The river, from the junction
tween Stoner and Hinkston, seems to have been
knovn both by the name of the South Fork and of
IHinkston's Fork.
All these traces were, in f.ct, hunters' traces;
but eadh of them, except that leading to Mastin's
station, was distinguished by some name peculiar to
itself, generally by the station or place to which it
led, as Riddle's trace, the Blue Lick trace, &c.; and
no one of them, except that leading to Mastin's, was
notoriously and pre-eminently called "the Hunter's
trace." There is some testimony that this was also
known by the name of Mastin's trace; but the great
mass of testimony in the cause proves, inconiru',ertibly, that this trace was known and distinguished,
generally, by the peculiar appellation of" the Huntar's trace2' It is on this trace that the loqation was
made.
The Hunter's .trace, then, used in such a manner
as to satisfy those interested in the inquiry, that it
was intended to be employed as the name of some
particular trace, would have been considered as designating the trace leading from Bryant's to Mastin's
station, and would have been sufficient to show that
the lands located by Masterson were on that trace.
Had no farther description of it been attempted, but
the trees called for had been said to stand -on "the
Hunter's trace," where it crosses the dividing
ridge between the waters of Hinkston and Elkhorn,
it would have been clear that the trace was referred
to by its name of greatest notoriety, by a name

1816.
Matson

v.
Hord.

136

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
which no other trace received; and, both the trace
and
the part of the trace where the objects specially
Matsony
called for must be found, wouldhave been designav.
HOld,
ted with sufficient certainty. There is no evidence
in this cause, nor is the court appized that any other
trace, distinguished as " the Hunter's trace," led
from any other place than Bryants station, over the
dividing ridge between the'waters of Elkhorn and
Hinkston, and, consequently, a reference to this trace,
by its name, was all that was necessary for its designation, and would have designated it most unequivocally. But a farther description has been attempted,
and this has produced the difficulty felt in deciding
this cause.
It will not be pretended, that the locator was confined to this reference to the name, or mightnot add
to the description, and make it more minute; but if,
in doing so, he has destroyed its certainty, if he has
ci'eated doubts with respect to the trace. i'tended,.
which inay mislead subsequent locators, the validity
of his location becom6s questionable.
The words added to "the Hunter's trac?" are,
"leading from Bryant's station over to the waters of
Hinkson."
These words are not unmeaning, nor does the
court feel itself authorized to reject them as surplusage; nor do they form any part of the name of the
trace. Why, then, are they introduced ? Subsequent locators might consider them as explanatory
of the words " the Hunter's trace." If they are so
explanatory, there is, -L,rtainly, much plausibility
afforded to the conclusion, that the locator did not

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mean to. refer -to the trace by its name; fQr if such
was his intention, (there
• " being no other trace of the
same name,) a.farther description would be urneces.say, and a more particular description would be impossibe . Perplexity and confusion may be introduced, but an object cannot be, rendered more certain. than :by bastowing on it its particular and appropriate name, if that name be one of general no.toriety, The court felt the, force of- the argument,
that ' ,the Hunter's trace," leading from Bryants
sation over to the waters of I-irikston, might .be
ux.deiatood in the same sense with he words "' the
Hunter's trace,'- or, ",that -hunters trace: which
leads from Bryant's station over to the waters" of
Hinkston." Understood in that sense, the addition"ael andexplanatory part of the description- -might be
cQnsidered aa, its -essential part, 6nd might control
the w.oids ."-the Hunter's trace," which, connected
as Chey gre in this description, are not incapable of
application to other hunters' traces, though not usually designated ty that particular name. If. this
were to be received as the true construction, there
ar-so.pany other traces leading across this dividing
ridge, fiom Bryant's station to the waters of Hinkston, that all pretension to certainty, in this location,
must be surrendered.
On this part of the case the court has felt considerable difficulty; and it is not without hesitation,
that it has finally adopted the opinion, that "the
Hunter's trace" is to be considered as referred to by
its name; and, that the additional wordsi " leading
from Bryant's station over to the waters of Hinkstont"
V9L . I.

1818.
M atson

V.
Hor4.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

are nearly an affirmation that "the Hunter's trace"
does lead from that station to those wateis. It leads
Matson
V. to Stoner's fork, which empties into, or unites with,
rd. Hinkston's fork, which afterwards empties into the
main Licking. These branches are,, al of them,
called forks of Licking, and, therefore, it would seem
to the court refstnable,.,(as is indeed indicated -by
much of the testimony,) that this ridge was ratherconsidered as dividing the wafers of Elkhorn from
those of Licking than from those of Hinkston. But
Stoner's fork,, to which this trace leads, may, without impropriety, be denominated, as it. sometimes
has been denominated;" the Waters of Hinkston."
It cannot escape notice, that if this trace had been
designated as that leading to Mastin's station, it
would have been freed from all ambiguity. - But it
has been decided in Kentucky, and necessarily sa
decided, that a locator ought not to be held to the
most certain description of which the place is susceptible. A descriptiori 'which distinguishes it from
any other, although a better or Still more certain
description might be given, is all that is required.
Having, with much difficulty, ascertaiued the
trace, the neyt inquiry is, on what part of this trace
the land entered by Masterson ought to lie. The
location says, generally, " on the dividing ridge between the waters of Hinkston and the wafers of
Elkhorn." It has been objected, that neither the
side of the ridge nor the side of the trace, is specified; and that, to search both sides of the ridge and
of the trace, is imposing an unreasonaLle labour on
subsequent locators. The qouvt does .lot think so.
1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1,3S

The ridge is not of such breadth as to render the

1216.

search on both sides the trace, from the foot of the

""
Matson

ridge on one 'side, to the foot of the ridge on the
other, a very unreasonable one. But the trees must
be found on the ridge, and a subsequent locator is
not bound to search for them elsewhere. - The trees
having in themselves no notoriety, it is the more necessary that the place on which they stand should
be correctly, described, and so described, that persons interested in discovering them, might know how
to find them., Let us then examine the testimony to
this point.
Richard Masterson, who made thd location, provea
the place where the trees stood.- They ate now cut
down, but a mulberry stump remains, which is the
stump of the tree he marked, is No. 33., .west three
poles from a white oak, now standing. H-Je gives no
description of the place;
Henry Lee was with Mastersonwhen he marked
the tiees, and saw him mark them. They had been
hunting on the trace on Cooper's run; and, on their
return, he says, " on the aforesaid trace, or path,
after crossing the dividing ridge, near a small branch
waters of Elkhorn, Richard Masterson marked," &.
This testimony would rather indicate that, in the
6pinion of the witness, the trees did not stand on
the ridge.
Simon Kenton describes the ci'ooked oak mentioned by .Masterson and Jay: " it does not stand
on the dividing ridge." On being further interrogated he says, "he well believes that the crooked
oak stands on ground which is a spur of the dividing

V.

Hord;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

,141
1816.
'

ridge which leads down to the junction of the

-" " branches," which unite a small distance below the
V.
mulberry stump.
Tfad.

in the course of his examination, this'witness says,
that if he could not have found these trees on. the
ridge, and had found them where they stood, he.
should have taken them, for the trees called for in
Masterson's entry; but in no part of his testimony
does he indicate" that he would have searched for
them on the :spur where they stood.
Zachariah Easton, the surveyor, gives a very -accurate description of the place. The mulberry
stump stands between two branches, three poles
from the eastern, thirty poles from the western, and
forty one poles from their junction.' Along the trace,
which crosses the branch several times, the stump is
one hundred and ninety poles from the top of the
ridge. The stump stands, not on the dividing 'ridge
itself, but on a spur of the ridge, which does not continue along the trace, but takes a direction west-thereof, and unites with the main ridge, as would
sem from the plat, sixty oi seventy poles west of'
the point at which the trace-crosses it.
Not a single, witness deposes that the stump is
on the ridge.
No testimony has been offered. to the codrt to irtduce the opinion that, in Kentucky, a spur of a ridge
is, considered as the ridge itself,' and the contrary
seems reasonable. Spurs sometimes extend for considerable distances, and are certainly distinguishable
from the ridge from which they projeot. If, in this
qase, the trace had led up this spur, a subsequent

OF THE UNITEb STATUES,'

ocitor might have considered it as a continuation of
the ridge, But tl6 trace does not lead up the spur."
It crosses a branch after passing the spiur, and~then
comes to the ridge. The court is of opinion that subsequent locators could not be expected to continue
their search after reaching the foot of the ridge,
and that the description fails in stating the marked
trees to 6e on the dividing ridge, instead of stating
Them .to be on a spur of the dividing ridge.
The -decree, therefore, dismissing the plaintiff's bill,
is affirmed with costs.

1816.

V.

Decree affirmed..

(LOCAL LAW.)
'.TAYLOR V. WA TbN AND HUNDLY.."
A questi.n of fact) espeoting the validity of tlie
lodation' of a warraat
[dr lan under the-laws of Kentucky.
*APPEAL

fr6m a .decr6e in chancery in the circuit

eourt of Kentucky. The cause'was argued by Key,
for the appellants,. and Talbot and Hardin for the
respondents.
MARSHALL,
court.

Ch. 1., delivered. the opinion of the March 6ft

