GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

304

1816.
H
Harden

v.
3Fsher.

sel; all which being considered, this court is of opinion that there is error in the judgment of the circuit court for the, district of New-York, in this, that
the said court ought not to have rendered judgment
on the said verdict in favour of the plaintiffs in ejectnient, because it does not appear certainly, in the
said verdict, that the ancestor, under whom they
claim, held in law, or in fact, the' lands mentioned in
the declaration, when the treaty of 1794, between
the United States and- Great Britain, was made;
therefore, it is considered. by this court, that the
saidjudgnment be reversed, and annulled, and that
the cause be remanded tb the circuit court, for the
distric+ of New-York, with directions to award a vemirefaciasde novo.

Judgment reversed.
a Vide 11 Jons.Rep. 418.

Jackson v. Decker.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

MArLTi,

Heir at law and devisee of FAIRFAX. V.HuNTER'S Lessee.

The appellate jurisdiction of the supreme court of the United States
extends to a inal judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court
of law or equity of a state; where is drawn in question the validity
Of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the Uui.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ted States, and the decision is against their validity; or where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or-an authority exercised under, any state, on the ground of their being repugnant to the
constitution, treaties, 6r laws of the United Siates, and the decision
is in favour of such their validity; or the construction of a treaty, or
statute of, or commission held under, the United States, and the
decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially
set up or claimeaI, by either party, under such clause of the constitution, treaty, statute or commission.
Such judgment or decree may [e reexamined by writ of error in the
same manner as if rendered in a circuit court.
If the cause has been once remanded before, and the state court decline or refuse to carry into effect the mandate of the supreme court
thereon, tbis court will proceed to a final decision of the same, and
award execution thereon.
If the validity or construction of a treaty of the United States is drawn
in question, and the decision is against its validity, or the title specially set up by either party, under the treaty, this court has jurisdiction to ascertain that title and determine its legal validity, and
is not confined to the abstract construction of the treaty itself
The return of a copy of the record, under the seal of the court, certified
by the clerk, and annexed to the writ of error, is a sufficient return
in such a case.
It need not appear that the judge who granted the writ of error did,
upon issuing the citation, take a bond, as required by the 22d section
of the judiciary act. That provision is merely directory to the
judge, and the presumption of law is, until the contrary appears, that
every judge who signs a citation has obeyed the injunctions of the
act.

THIs was a writ of error to the court of appeals
of the state of Virginia, founded upon the refusal of

that court to obey the mandate of this court, requiring the judgment rendered in this same cause, at
February term, 1813, to be carried into due execu-

tion.

The following is the judgment of the court of

appeals, rendered on the mandate.: "The court is

unanimously of opinion that the appellate power of
the supreme court of the United States does not
Vol.

ZQ

3ON
1816.
Iartin
V.
Hunter's
Lessee.

306

CASES IN THE SUPREZ1E COURT

extend to this court under a sound construction of
'the
constitution of the United States; that so much
M~artin
of the 25th section of the act of congress, to establish
V.
Htunter's
Lesee.
tle judicial courts of the United States, as extends
the appellate jurisdiction of the supreme court to this
1816.

court, is not in pursuance of the constitution of the

United States. That the writ of error in this cause
was improvidently allowed under the authority of
that act; that the proceedings thereon in the supreme
court were coram nonjudce in relation to this court,
and that obedience to its mandate be declined by the
court."

The original suit was an action of ejectment,
brought by the defendant in error, in one of the district courts of Virginia, holden at Winchester, for
the recovery .of a parcel of land, situate within that
tract, called the northern neck of Virginia, and
part and parcel thereof. A declaration in ejectment *as served (April, 1791) on the tenants in
possession; whereupoin Denny Fairfax, (late Denny
Martin,) a British subject, holding the land in question, under the dcvise of the late Thomas Lord Fairfax, was admitted to defend the suit, and plead. the
general issue, upon the usual terms of confessing
lease, entry, and ouster, &c., and agreeing to insist, at
the trial, on the title only, &c. The facts being
settled in the form of a case agreed to be taken and
considered as a special verdict, the court, on consideration thereof, gave judgment (24th of April,
1794) in favour of the defendant in ejectment.
From tha.t judgment the plaintiff in ejectment (now
defendant in error) appealed to the court of appeals,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

being the highest court of law of Virginia. At April 1im.
term, 1810, the court of appeals reversed the judg- Martin
"
ment of the district court, bnd gave judgment for the Hunter's
V.
then appellant, now defendant in error, and there- Lessee.
upon the case was removed into this court.
State of the facts as settled by the case agreed.
1st. The*title of the late Lord Fairfax to all that
entire territory and tract of land, called the Northern
Neck of Virginia, the nature ofhis estate.in the same, as
he inherited it, and the purport of the several charters
and grants from the kings Charles*IL and James I.,
under which his ancestor held, are agreed to be truly
recited in an act of the assembly of Virginia, passed
in the year:1736i [Vide Rev. Code, y.1. ch. 3. p. 5.]
"For the confirming and better securing the titles to
laftds in the Northern Neck, held under the Rt. Hon.
Thomas Lord Fairfax," &c.
From the recitals of the act, it appears that the
first letters pafent (1 Car. IL)granting the land in
question to Ralph Lord Hopton and others, being
surrendered, in oider to have the grant renewed, with
alterations, the Earl of St. Albans and others (partly
survivors of, and partly purchasers under, the first
patentees) obtained new letters patent (2 Car. II.)
for the same land and apputrtenancis, and by the
same desoription, but with additional privileges and
reservations, &c.*
The estate granted is described to be, "Al that
et're tract, territory,,orarcel of land, situate, &c., and
bounded by,.and within the heads of, th4 rivers Taypahannock, Sic., togetherwith the rivers themselves, and all
the islands, &c., and all woods, underwoods, tiaber,&c..

308

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

mines of gold and silver, lead, tin, &c., and quarries of
and coal. &., to have, hold, and enjoy the said tract
of Lnd, &c. to the said [patentees,] their heirs and assigns
for ever, to their only use and kehoof, and to no other
use, intent, or purpose whatsoever."
There is reserved to the crown the annual rent
of 6. 13s. 4d. "in lieu of all services and demands
whatsoever ;" also one-fifth part of all gold, and oner
tenth part of all silver mines.
To the absolute title and seisin in fee of the land
and-its appurtenance, and the beneficial use and en.
joymcnt of the same, assured to the patentees, as
tenants in capite, by the most direct and abundant
terms of conveyancing, there are superadded certain
dollateral powers of baronial dominion; reserving,
howiever, to the governor, council and assembly of
Virginia, the exclusive authority in all the military
concerns of the granted territory, and the power to
imp6setaxes on the persons and property of its inbabitants for the public and common defence of the
colony, as .well.as a general jurisdiction-over the patentees, their heirs and assigns, and all other inhabitants of the said territory.
'In the enumeration of'privileges specifically granted to the patentees, their heirs and assigns, is that
"frcely and without molestation of the. king, to give,
grant, or by any ways or means, sell or-alien all and singular the granted premises, and every part and parcd
thereof,tO any person orpersons being willing to contract
for, or buy, the same."
There is alao a condition to avoid the grant, as to
so much of the granted premises as should not be

Sstone

Martin

V.

Lessee.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

possessed, inhabited, or planted, by the means or
procurement of the patentees, their heirs or assigns,
in the space of 21 years.
The third and last of the letters patent referred
to, (4 Jac. II.,) after reciting a sale and conveyance
of the granted premises by the former patentees, to
Thomas Lord Culpepper, " who was thereby become
sole owner and proprietor thereof, in fee simple," proceeds to confirm the same to Lord Culpepper, in fee
simple, and to release him from the said condition,
for having the lands inhabited or planted as aforesaid.

The said act of assembly then recites, that Tho.
mas -Lord Fairfax, heir at law of Lord Culpepper,
had become " sole proprietor of the said te2,itory,
with - the appurtenances, and the abope.iecited letters
patent."
By another act of assembly, passed in the year
1.748, (Rev. Code, v. 1. ch. 4. p. 10.,) certain grants
from the crown, made while the exact boundaries of
the Northern Neck were doubtful, for lands which
proved to be within those boundaries, as then recently
settled and determined, were, with the express consent
of Lord Fairfax, confirmed to the grantees; to be
held, nevertheless, of him, and all the rents, services,
profits, and emoluments, (reserved by such grants,)
to be paid and performed to him.
In another act of assembly, passed May, 1779, for
establishing a land office, and ascertaining the terms
and manner of granting waste and unappropriated
lands, there is the following clause, viz. (vide Chy.
Rev. of 1783, ch. 13. s. 6. p. 98.) "And that the

309
1816.
Mar n
Martin

V.
Hunter's
Lessee.

910

CASES IN THE SUMAfEE COURT

proprie.,rs of land within this commonwealth may
1816.
kO
no longer be subject to any servile, feudal, or precaMartin
.. . rious tenure, and to prevent the danger to a free
Hunter's
r~essee state, from perpetual revenue, be it enacted, that
the royal mines, quit-rents, and all other reservations
and conditions in the patents or grants of land from
the crown of England, under the former government, shall be, and are hereby declared null and
void; and that all lands thereby respe6tively granted shall be held in absoluie and uncondifionDal property, to all intents and purposes whatsoever, in th6
sa:ae manner with the lands hereafter granted by the
commonwealth, by virtue of this act."
2d. As respects the actual exercise of his proprietary rights by Lord Fairfax.
It is- agreed- that he did, in the year 1748, open
and conduct, at his own expen~e, an'.office within the
Northern eck,' for granting arid conveying what he
described and cal1ed, the waste and ungrantedlands
therein, upon certain terms, and according to certain
rules by him e~tablished and pubilished'; that he didi
from time to time, grant parcels of such lands in fee;
(the deeds being registered at his said office, in
books kept for that.purpose, by his own clerks and
agents;) that, acvording LO the uniform tenor of
such grants, he did, styling himself proprietorof the
Northern Neck, *c., in consideration of a ceitain
composition to hini paid, and of certain annual rents
therein reserved,, grant, &c.; with a clause of reentry for non-payment of the rent, "&c.; that he
also demised,- for lives and terms of years, parcels
of the same description of lands, also reserving an,-

01 TH; UNITED STATES

31]

naal rents; that he kept his said office open for the 1816,
purposes aforesaid, from the year 1748 till his death1 *
in Deiember; 1781; during the whole of which
v. ,
Runter'i
period, and before, he exercised the right of gra4t.
ing in fee, and demising for lives and terms of years,
as aforesaid, and received and enjoyed the" rents
annually, as they accrued, as well under the grants
in fee, as under the leases for lives and years. It is
also agreed that Lord Fairfax died seised of lands
in the NorthernNeck, equal to about 300,QOO acres$.
which had been granted by him in fee, to one T. B.
Martin, upon the same terms and conditions, and in
the same form, as the other. grants in fee before described; which lands were, soon after beitng so
granted, reconveyed to Lord Fairfax in fee.
3d. Lord Fairfax, being a citizen and inhabitant of
Virginia, died in the month of December, 1781, and,
by his 'last will and testament, duly made and published, devised the whole of his lands, &c., called, or
known by the name of the Northern Neck -o"Virginia, in fee, to Deiiny Fairfax, (the orxigial defend-

ant in ejectment,) by the name aid description of
the Reverend Denny Martin, &c., upon c6ndition of
his taking tle name and arms of Fairfax, &c.; and
it is admitted that he filly complied with the conditions of the devise.
4th.- It is agreed that Denny Fairfax, the devisee,
was a native-born British subject, and never became
a citizen of the United States, nor any one of them,
but always resided in Englavd, as well during the
revolutionary war as from his birth, about the year
1750, to his death, which happened some time be-

312

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tween the years 1796 and 1803, as appears from the
record of the proceedings in the court of appeals.
Martin
,V.
It is also admitted that Lord Fairfax left, at his
Hunter's
Lessee.
death, a nephew named Thomas Bryan Martin, who
was always a citizen of Virginia, being the younger
brother of the said devisee, and the second son of a
"sister of the said Lord Fairfax; which sister was
still living, and had always been a British subject.
5th. The land demanded by this ejectment being
agreed to be part and parcel. of the said territory
and tract of land, called the Northern Neck, and to
b& a part of that description of lands, within the
Northern Neck, called and described by Lord Fairfax as "waste: and ungranted," and being also
agreed never to have been escheated and seised into
the hands of the commonwealth of Virginia, pursuant to certain acts of assembly concerning escheators,
and never to have been the subjpct of any inquest of
office, was contained and inllided in a certain patent,
bearing date the 30th of April, 1789, under the hand
of the then governor, and the seaI of the commonwealth of Virginia, purporting that.the land in question is granted by the said commonwealth, unto
David Hunter (the lessor of the plaintiff in ejectment) and his heirs forever, by virtue and in consideration of a land office treasury warrant, issued the
23d of January, 1788. The said lessor of the plaintiff in ejectment is, and always has been, a citizen of
Virginia; and in pursuance of his said patent, entered into the land in. question, and was thereof possessed, prior to the institution of the said action of
ejectment.
i816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6th. The definitive treaty of peace concluded in
of amity, commerce,
the year 1783, and the treaty
•
:and navigation, of 1794, between the United States
of America and Great•Britain, and also the several
acts of the assembly of Virginia, concerning the
premises, are referred to, as making a part of the
case agreed.

Upon this state of facts, the judgment of the court
of appeals of Virginia was reversed by this court, at
February term, 1813, and thereupon the mdndate

above mentioned was issued to the court of appeal&,
which being disobeyed, the cause was again brought
before this court.
Jones, for the plaintiffs, in error. There are
two questions inthe cause, Ist. Whether this court
has jurisdiction ? 2d. Whether it has been rightly
exercised in the present case ?-1. Cotemporaneous
construction, and the uniform practice since the constitution was adopted, confirms the jurisdiction of the
court. The authority of all the popular writers who
were friendl to it, is to the same effet; and the
letters of Publius show that it was agreed, bath by
its friends and foes, that the judiciary power extends
to this class of cases. In the conventions, by which
the constitution was adopted, it was never denied by
itsfrends that its powers extended as far as its enemies alleged. It was admitted, and justified as expedient and necessary, Ascending from these popular and parliamentary authorities, to the more judicial evidence of *hat'is the supreme law of the-land,
we find a concurrence of opinion. Tliis government
Ver.. T.

SR

1816.
Martin

V.
Lssee.

Hunter's

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.314
1816.

v..
Lsem,

is not a mere confederacy, like the Grecian leagues,
or the Germanic constitution, or the old continental
confedetation. In its legislative, executive, and judicial authorities, it is. a national government, to
every purpose, within the scope of thq objects enumerated 'n tFbe constitution. Its judicial authority i.9
analagous to its legislative: it alone has the'pqwer
of makirig treaties; those treaties are, declared- to
be the law of the Jand; and thejudiciary of-the Unite Stites is exclusively vested with the power of
construing them. The 9econd-sectioni article third,
of the constitution provides, that the judicial power
"shall extend to all cases in law or equity, arising
under this cof'titutibn,'the laws of'the United States,
and the treaties made, or which shall be made, under
their authority," &e.- The word sh2ff, is- a sign of
the future teilse, and implie" an imperative mandate,
obligatory upon those to whom it is addressed. The
verb extend, is said to mean nothing more thn may
extend; but the neuter verb, and not the verb active,
is used, and imports that the power sh#/! extend-it
shall reach to, or over. 1'All cases," is an emphatic
expression, and shows that it cannot extend to a limited number of chses. The state legislatures cannot make treaties. Why should the state judicatures
be offended at being excluded from the authority of
•expqundifig them ? 2. Has congress exercised the
power vested in it according to the constitution ? If
the jurisdiction be exclusive and paramount, it must
be exercised according to the discretion of congress,
the cofistitution having prescribed no specific mode;
it must operate upon the people of the United States

OF THE UNITED STATES.

315

in their personal and aggregate capacities, upon them

1816.

and all their magistrates and tribunals.

Martin

must establish a supreme court.
lish inferior courts.

Congress

They may estab-

The, supreme court must have

the appellate jurisdiction vested in them hy the constitution, and congress cannot denude them of it,,bv
failing to establish inferior tribunals. Those fribunals may not exist-; and, therefore, the appellate jurisdiction must extend be'yond appeals from the courts
of the United States only. The state courts are to
adjudicate under, the supreme law of the lan'd;as a
rule binding upon them. They do not act upon it
as judges determining by a foreign. law, in a case of
lex loci, for'example; they act upoki it as a municipal
law of the state where they sit, but derived from the
goveinment of the United .States. 3. As to the remedy of the plainrtiffs in error. This court is not
limited to a inandate as the only remedy. The judiciary act provides, (section 24.,) that when a cause
has been once remanded, this court.may award,a
writ of execution upon its own judgment. The
cause is now before the court, so as to enable it to do
this; the record iswell certified, acc9rding to the
law and practice of Virginia,. and of every qther
state, under the seal of the court and signature of
the clerk. E.ven supposing it necessary to take a
retrospective view, and look at the former record, it
originated, and still remains, in this forum, and it is
unnecessary to send to the court of appeals for it.
Tucker, contra. 1.- At common law the writ of
error must be returned by the court itself. It is im-

V.
Hunter's

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

316
1816Martifi
'

v.
Hunter's
Lessee.

perfect in this case, and, therefore we fiave a right,
to a certiorari, or writ of diminution. But there is
no 3rror; the court of appeals have done nothing;
and, therefore, there is no error in their proceedings.
It is a mere omission to do what they ought to have,
done, and no judgment can be rendered here to reverse what they-have not done. This court cannot
award execution upon the judgment in the original
cause. -Thatjudgment is final; it is functus ofTicio,
and nothing more .can be done with it. The original
cause is not brohght here again completely, and,
therefore, the provision in the 24th sectiora of the
judiciary act does not apply. 2. Is the judiciary act
constitutional ? This court, undoubtedly, has all the
incidental powers necessary to carry into effect the
powers expressly given by the constitution. But
this cannot extend to the exercise.of any power inconsistent with-the whole genius, spirit, and tenor of
the. constitution.
Neither the practice and acquiescence under it, nor cotemporaneous expositions
can apply, because they are contradictory. State
courts have refused to execute the penal laws of the
United States, and the court of appeals ground themselves on the resolutions of the Virginia legislature
in 1798; but this court will disregard these controversial political party works. The chief defect of
.the former confederation was, that it acted on political, and not on natural, persons. The whole scheme
of the constitution aims at acting on the citizens of
the United States at large, and not on the state authorities. The philological criticism upon the third
article is unsound. Shall is merely a sign of the

':F THE UNITED STATES.

17

future tense, and not imperative; the laws of the
United States having, ii some instances, given conjoint jurisdiction to the state courts, and upon that
argument must be unconstitutional.

- "

Extend," or

" shall extend," merely -imports that it may extend. Congress are bound to egtablish tribunals inferior to the supreme court, How else arecrimes
against the United States to be-p'unished, since the
supreme court have not original jurisdidtion of these
cases ? The state courts are bound by treaties asa
part of the supreme law of the land, and they must
construe them in order to obey them. The only
constitutional method of giving any greater effect to
the supremacy 'of treaties, would have been by'.enabling the parties claiming under them to sue in the
national courts. 3. There are three classes of cases
enumerated as of appellate jurisdiction: that -of
treaties only applies to this case; but in this case
the British treaty was not principally,only incidentall , in question. It does not appear upbn the-face-of
the record that the judgment was upon the treaty:
It was not upon the treaty; the court of appeals; in
their judgment, have expressly dclared that it was
not upon the.treaty, by affirming that part of the
judgment of the district court at Winchester which
determined in favour of the treaty.
Dexter, on the same side. Every
citizen, and, on great constitutional
duty to his client does not require him
opinion he may have formed. This

advocate is a
questions, his
to conceal any
cause may be

safely carried through, without falsifying the true ex-

1816.

V.

lluuter's

Lessee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

318
1816.
%-

.

Martia
V.
Iunterls
Less

position of the constitution. BeLikving that it is
essential to the national welfare that congress should
have the right of arming the courts of the United
States with every authority necessary to give com-

plete effect to the judicial powers granted by the
constitution, I dissent from the court of appeals of
Virginia, when they deny that the appellate jurisdiction of the national tribunals extends to cases involvingthe construction and validity of treaties. But the
question is, has - congress provided an adequate method of exercising it? 1. Before a .writ of error goes
from this court to a state court, it must appear on
-the face of the record, 1st. That the conztruction
or validity of a treaty is- draxn in question. 2d.
That the title or claim supposed to be infiinged
was specially set up or demanded by the party.
3d. That the- state court did decide respecting
the title or claim under the treaty. In the present instance, suppose that there had been no case
made, and that all the facts stated had been given in
evidence, and a general verdict rendered thereon :
the 6ase is precisely in that predicament. The determination of the bourt was not limited, in any degree, to the construction of a treaty, which was only
one of the numerous facts stated on which the title
of the parties depended. How can this court ascertain-on which of these facts the state court determined, or that it determined upon the treaty? The
alienage of Lord Fairfax's devisee, and the question
whether the lands did not escheat without office found,
night have been the point of decision, avoiding to con,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

31

sider the consti'uction or validity of the treaty, which
1816.
applies only to things confiscable. Congress have not
V.
said that this court shall determine conjecturally, -but Hunter's,
that the party shall specially set up his claim on the Lessee.
record, in order to see whether a treaty has been infringed. He may plead the matter specially, or except to the opinion of the court; but if lie chose to
make an agreed case in the most general way, is this
court to amend the defects of his proceeding? 2. As
to the constitutionality of the judiciary act. It is
agreed that the judicial powers granted by the constitution are exclusive, or exclusive in the election of
congress; but that any appellate jur isdiction is given
by the constitution is what I deny. It is neither expressed nor implied; nor is there any necessity for
it: for these suits might be removed from the state
courts, as are suits commenced -by breigners and citizens of different states, in the first instance, or in the
moment any question touching a treaty arose, instead
of being brought up by the otiensive mode- of a writ
of error, directed to a court which is as supreme in
its appropriate sphere as this court. Whether the
court where the suit is commenced will, or will not,
consent; the national court may. take jurisdiction. If
the state c6urt'Pertinaciously proceeds, notwithstanding; its proceedings would be coram nonjudice. The
original and the appellate jurisdiction are opposed to
each other by the constitution. The first cannot regard the state courts; nor the latter: for it is only
the residuum of t'he- mass of power before given,
which does riot expressly include appeals from the
state courts. Why is it to be supposed that the state

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

320

V1.

courts will exercise any part of that mass of povfer?
There is no necessity for it, since the laws might
provide a constitutional mode of excluding them. If

Hunter's
Lessee.

they have not provided such a mode, it is not for this

1816.
Martin

court to supply the defect. By attempting it, they
will begin a conflict between the national and state
authorities that mayultimately involve both in .one
common ruin. The taper of judicial. discord may
become the torch of civil war,'and though the breath
of a judge can extinguish the first, the wisdom of the
statesman may not quench the latter. I'lament that
the courts of so patriotic a state as Virginia have denied the complete and exclusive dominion of the national government over the whole surface: of the
judicial 'power granted by the people to that government. - "JoNr or pm," was the word' when we
were represented. as a disjointed serpent, of
which Virginia- was the head. From that head
sprung our "immortal chief," armed- with the egis
of wisdom. But that great man, and those who advised him, improvidently assented to a law, (the judiciary act,) whicb:is neither constitutionally nor politically adapted to enforce-the powers-of the national
courts -in an amicable and pacific manner. I have
never feared that this -government was too strong:
I have always feared it was not strong enough. I have
long'inclined to the belief, that the centrifugal force
was greater than the centripetal. The danger is,
not that we shall -fall into the sun, but that we may
fly off in eccentric orbits, and never return to our
perihelion. But though I will struggle to preserve
all the constitutional powers of the national govern-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ment, I will not strain and break the constitution

itself, in order to .ssert them ; there.is danger too on•
that side. The poet describes the temple of Fame
as situated on a mountain covered with ice. The
palaces of power are on the same frail foundation;
the foot of adventurous ambition often slips in the
ascent, and sometimes the volcano bursts, and inundates with its lava the surrounding country. But I
fear not that this court will be wanting in the firmness which becomes its station; and if it believes
that it may, constitutionally, and legally, exert its
powers upon the state courts, in this form, (which is
what I deny,) it will not. regard consequences in the
exercise of its duty: it will say, with another august
tribunal, " Fiatjustilia,ruat calum!".
Jones, in reply.. The states are deprived, by the
constitution, of the character of perfect states, as defined by j urhsts; they at'e still sovereign, sab modo;
but the hational government pervades all their territory, and acts upon all their citizens. The state
judicatures are essentially incompetent to pronounce
what is the law; not in the limited sphere of their territorial jurisdiction, but throughout the union and the
world. The constitution, aft. 3., sec. 2., has distinguished between the causes properly national, and
" controversies". which it was thought expedient
vest in the courts of the United States. The judiciary act covers the first completely, the last only
partially. It is said -the doctrine contended for
involves the old anomaly of the national government,
acting, not on individuals, but on state authoritieb;
VOL. 1.

2.9

181w.
Martin

V.
Hunter's
Lese.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUPT

191s.
Martin
i

V.

Leste'

but this government must act in this manner by appeal from the state courts, or it cannot act at all.. If
you have an appellate jurisdiction, their judgment is
your judgment. You may execute this your judgment; you need not remand the cause to the state
.ourt. These are mere arbitrary forms, which thq
court may discard, or adopt, at pleasure. Neither is
it necessary to send a writ of error to the state
court; you may cite the parties themsel'es to appear in your forum, as soon as a question touching
a treaty arises. There is no necessary connection
between an appellate tribunal and the court appealed from; it is sufficient that the parties have originally litigated before the court of first instance,
The house of lords, an English common law court,
hiolds appeals from the court of sessions, in Scotland,
a civil law tribunal. The union between that country and England is similar to our federative constitution.' In whatever mode'the appellate jurisdiction
may be exercised, it is still liable to the difficulties
suggested. The process by which a cause is to be
removed f'om the state court, before judgment, must
be addressed to that court; and if it still proceeds,
the remedy must be as offensive as at present. But
it would, also, be inef&e6tual and dilatory. Suppose,
in a case of original jurisdiction, an ambassador prosecuted for a supposed crime in a state court, he
miglht be imprisoned, or put to death, before the national adthority could be inteiposed, unless it act directly or. tic statejudicature. In this case, the court
may act d.irectly on the cause and the parties, in order to carry into completc effect the appellate pow.

yr, with which it is inve'sted by fhe constitution and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

laws. There is nothing in the record importing that
the court of appeals determined on the ground of
the party's title merely. Nor is it necessary that
the treaty, under which that title is set up, should be
specified in a bill of exceptions, or propounded in argument. It is sufficient that the claim is stated uppn
the record, and that the title depends upon the treaty. This court is not to pronounce a mere abstract
opinion upon the validity, or construction, of the
treaty ; it may, therefore, decide on other incidental
matters; and, if the party has a good title under the
treaty, it is to enforce and protect that title. As to
the sufficiency of the return, the law merely requires
a transcript of the record to be removed, and, by the
rules of this court, a return by th,. clerk is .tnffilnent.
STORY,

J., delivered the opinion of the court.

This is &-writ of error from the couirt of appeals
of Virginia, founded upon the refusal 'of that court
to obey the mandate 'of this court, requiring the
judgment rendered in this very cause, at Feb'uary
term, 1813, to be carried into: due execution. The
following is the judgment of the court of appeals
rendered on the mandate : t The court is unarimously of opinion, that the appellate power of the supreme court of the United States does not extend to
this court, under a sound construction of the constitution of the United States; that so much of the
25th section of the act of congress to establish the
judicial courts of the United States, as extends the
appellate jurisdiction of the supreme court to this
court, is not in pursuance of the constitution of the

.323

1816.
Harrison

V.

Lessee.

March -201.

324

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

United States; that the writ of error, in this cause,
Mt
was improvidently allowed under the authority of
Martin
r.
that act; that the proceedings thereon in the sutrunter's
preme court were, coram nonjudice, in'relation to this
court, and that obedience to its mandate be declined
by the court."
The questions involved in this judgment zire of
great importance and delicacy. Perhaps it is not
too much to aifirm, that, upon their right decision,
rest some of the most solid principles which have
hitherto beerd supposed to sustain and protect the
constitution itself. The great respectability, too, of
the court whose decisions we are called 6ppn to review, and the entire deference which we entertain for
the learning and ability of that court, add much to
the difficulty of the task which has so unwelcomely
fallen upon us. It is, however,-a source of consola:
tion., that we have. had the assistance of most able
and learned arguments to aid our inquiries; and that
the opinion which is now to be pronounced has been
weighed with" every solicitude to come to a correct
result, and matured after solemn deliberation.
Before proceeding to theprincipal questions, it
may not be unfit to dispose of some preliminary considerations which have grown out of the arguments
at the bar.
The constitution of the United States was ordained and established, not by the states in their sovcreign capacities, but emphatically, as the preamble
of the constitution declares, by " the people of the
United States." There can be no doubt that it was
competent to the people to invest the general go1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vernment with all the powers which they might deem
proper and necessary; to extend or restrain these
powers according to their own good pleasure, and to
give them a paramount and supreme authority. As
little doubt can there be, that the people had a right
to prohibit to the states the exercise of any powers
which were, in their judgment, 'incompatible with
the objects of the general compact; to make the
powers of the state governments, in given cases, subordinate to those of the nation, or to reserve to
themselves those sovereign 'authorities 'which they
might not choose to delegate to either. The constitution was not, therefore, necessarily carved out
of existing state sovereignties, nor a surrender of
powers already ex;sting in state institutions, for the
powers of the states depend upon their' own constitutions; and the people of every state had the right
to modify and restrain them, according to -their own
views of policy or principle. On the other hand, it
is perfectly clear that the sovereign powers vested in
the state governments, by their respective constitations, remained unaltered and unimpaired, except so
far as they were granted to the government of the
United States.
These deductions do not rest upon general reasoning, plain and obvious as they seem to be. They
have been positively recognised by one of the articles in' amendment of the constitution, which dedares, that " the powers not delegated to the United States by the constitution, nor prohibited by it
to the states, are reserved to the states respectively,
or to the people."

1816.
Martin

v.
Hunter's
Lessee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COiURT

The government, then, of the United States, caR
claim no powers which are not granted to .it
by the
MVarin
V..I
constitution, and the powers actually granted, must
serse.be such as are expressly given, or given by necessary implication. On the other hand, this instrument,
like every other grant, is to have a reasonable construction, according to the import of its terms; and
where a power is expressly given in general terms,
it is not to be restrained to particular cases, unless
that Construction grow- out of the context expressly,
or by necessary implication. The words are to be
talten in their natural and obvious sense, and not in
a sense unreasonably restricted or enlarged:
The constitution unavoidably deals in general
language. It did not suit the purposes of the peo.
ple, in framing this great charter of our liberties, to
provide for minute specifications of its powers, or to
declare the means by which those powers should be
carried into exe.cution. It was foreseen that this
would be a perilous and difficult, if not an impracti1816.

cable, task. The instrument was not intended to
provide merely for the exigencies of a fewyears, but
was to endure through a long lapse of ages, the
events of wvhich were locked up in the inscrutable
purposes of Providence. It could nof be lbreseen
what new changes and modifications of power
might be indispensable to effectuate the general objects of the charter; and restrictions and specifications, which, at the present, might seem salutary,
might, in the end, prove the overthroW of the system itself. Hence its powers are expiessed in general terms, leaving to the legislaiure, from time to

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

time, to adopt its own means t6 effectuate legitimate
1818.
objetcts, and to mould and model the exercise of its M artin
powers, as its own wisdom, and the public interests,
V.
Hunter's
should require.
Lessee.
With these principles in view, principles in respect
to which no difference of opinion ought to be indulged, let us now proceed to the interpretation of the
constitution, so far as regards the great points in controversy.
The third article of the constitution is that which
must principally attract our attention. The 1st.
section declares, "the judicial power of the United
States shall be vested in one supreme court, and in
such other inferior courts as the congress may,.from
time to time, ordain and establish."- The 2d section
declares, that "the judicial power shall extend to all
cases in law or equity, arising tinder this constitution,
the laws of the United States, and the treaties made,
or which shall be made, 'under their authority; to all
cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers
and consuls; to all cases of admiraltyand maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States
shall be a party; to controversies between two or
more states; between a state and citizens of another
state; between citizens of different states; between
citizens of the same state, claiming lands under the
grants of different states; and between a state or the
citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens, or subJects." It then proceeds to declare, that "in all cases
affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and
consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party ,
the supreme court shall have or.ghaljurisdiction.

CASF9S IN THE SUVREME COURT

328
1816.

In all the other cases before mentioned the supreme
shall have appellatejurisdiction, both as to law
and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulations, as the congress shall make."
Such is the language of the article creating and
defining the judicial power of the United States. It
is the voice of the whole American people solemnly
declared, in establishing one great department of that
government which was, in many respects, national,
and in all, supreme It is a part of the very same
instrument which was to act not merely upon individuals, but upon states; and to deprive them altogether of the exercise of some powers of sdvereignty, and to restrain and regulate them in the exercise
of others.
Let this article be carefully weighed and considered. The language of the article throughout is
manifestly designed to be mandatory upon the legis-

Scourt

Martin
V.
Hunter'

Lesee.

lature. Its obligatory force is so imperative, that
congress could not, without a violation of its duty,
have refused to carry it into operation. .The judicial power of the United States shall be vested (not
may be vested) in one supreme court, and in such
inferior courts as congress may, from time to time,
ordain and establish. Could congress have lawfully
refused to create a supreme court, or tq vest in it the
qonstitutional jurisdiction ? " The judges, both of the
supreme and inferior courts, shall hold their offices
during good behaviour, and shall, at stated times, receive, for their services, a compensation which shall
not be diminished during their continuance in office."
Could congress create or limit any other tenure of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the judicial office? Could .they refuse to pay, at 1816.
stated t.imes, the stipulated saiary, or diminish it du- 1 Martin
V.
ring the contiqrance in office? But one answer can lfunter's
be given to these questions: it must be in the nega- Lesir.
tive. The objcct of the constitution was to establish three great departments .of. government; the
lcgisl'tiv6, the executive, and the ,judicial departments.. The first was to pass laws, the second to approve and execute them, and the third to expound
and enfor6e them. Without the latter, it would be
impossible to carg into effect some of the express
provisions, of the constitution. .flow, otherwise,
could crimes against the United States be tried and
punished ? How could causes between two states be
heard and determined? .The judicial power mqst,
therefore, be yested -insome court,. by congiress;
and to suppose that it. wvas not .an-obiigation binding
on them, but might, at their pleasure, be omited or
declined, is to suppose that, under the sanction _of
the consiitution, they might defeat the. constitution
itself; a construction which would lead to such a result cannot be sound.
The same cxpi'ession," shall be vested," occurs
in other parts of the constitution, in defining the
powers of the other co-ordinate branches of the
government. The first article declares that " all
legislative powers herein grai~ted shall be vestoei. in a
congress of the United States." Will it be coptefid- ,
ed that the legislative power is not abspoutly vested?
that the words mlerely refer to' some future act, and
mean only that the legislative power may hereafter
be vested? The second article declares that" the
Vol. I.

2T

330
1816.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

executive power shall be vested in a president of the
Statis of America." Could congress vest it

SUnited

Martin

in any other person; or, is it to await their good
Lesiee. pleasure, whether it is to vest~at all ? It is apparent
that such a construction,. in either case, would be
utterly inadmissible.. Why, then, is it entitled to a
better support in rcference to the judicial. department?
If, then, it is a duty of congress to vest the judicial
power of the United States, it is a duty to vest the
wholijudicialpoiber. The language, if imperative as
to one part, is imperative as to all. If it were otherwise, this anomaly would exist, that congress might
successively refiuse to vest the jurisdiction in any one
class .of ,:ases enumerated in the constitution, and
thereby defeat the jurisdiction as to all ; for the constitution has not singled out any 'class on which congress are bound to act in preference to others.
The next consideration is ad to the courts in which
the judicial power shall be vested. It is manifest
that a supreme court. musf be established; but
whether it be equally obligatory to establish inferior
court6, is a question of some difficulty. If congress
may lawfully omit to establish inferior courts, it
might follow, that in some of the enumerated" cases
the judicial power could nowhere exist. The supreme court can have original jurisdiction in two
.classes of cases only, viz. in cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and in cases
in which a state is a party. Congress cannot vest
any-portion of the ,judicial power of the United
States, except in courts ordained and established by

V.
Hunter's

OF THE UNITED STATES.

itself; and if in any of the cases enumerated in the con-

1816.

stitution, the state courts did not .then possessjurisdiction, the appellate jurisdiction of the supreme
court (admitting that it could act or state courts)
could not reach those cases, and, consequently, the
injunction of the. constitution, that the judicial power
"shall be vested," would be disobeyed. It would
seem, therefore, to follow, that congress are bound
to create some inferior courts, in which to vest all
that jurisdiction which, under the constitution, is exclusively vested in the United States, and of which
the supreme c.ourt cannot take original cognizance.
They might establish one or more ififerior courts;
they might pariel out the jurisdiction among such
courts, from time to time, at thir own pleasure.
But the whole -judicial power of the United States
should be, at all times, vested either in an original
or appellate form, in some courts created undir its
apthority.
This construction will be fortified by an attentive
examination of the second section of the third article.
The words are" the judicial power shall extend," &c.
Much minute and elaborate citicism has been employed up~dn these words. It has been argued that
they are eqtiivalent to the words "'may extend," and
that" extend" means to widen to new cases not before within the scope of the power. For the reasons
which have been already stated, we are of opinion
that the words are used in an imperative sense.
They import an absolute grant of judicial power.
They cannot have a relative sigiification applicable
to powers'already granted; for the American people

Martin

V.

Hunter's

Lessee

.332
1816.
Martin

'was

V.
Iunter's
Lessee.

CASES IN THE SUPRETETCOURT

had not made any pre-Vions grant. The constitution
for a new government organized With new substantive powers, and not a mere supplementary char-

ter to a government already existing. The confederation was a compact between states; and its
structure and powers were wholly unlike those of
the national government. The coristitution was 'an
act of the" people of the United States to supercede
the confederation, and not to be ingrafted on it, as
a stock through which it was to receive life and
nourishment.
If indeed, the 'relative signification. could be fixed
upon the term "extend," it could riot (as we shall
hereafter see) subsirve the parposes f the argument
in support of which'it has been adduct-d. This imperative sense of the words "shall extend," is
strengthened by the context. It is declared that
"in all cases- affecting ambassadors, &c., that the'supreme court shall have original jurisdiction." Could
congress withhold original jurisdiction in these cases
from the supreme court ? The clause proceeds-" in
all the other cases before mentioned the supreme
court'shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law
and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulationq, as the-congress shall make." The very exception here shows that the framers of the constitu.tion used the words in an imperative sense. What
.necessity could there' exist for this exception if the
preceding words were not used in that sense? Without such exception, congress would, by the preceding
words, have possessed a complete .power to regulate the appellate jurisdiction, if the language were

OF THE"UNITED STATES.

only equivalent to the words "may have" appellate
jurisdiction. It is tppat-ent, then,
• that the-exception
was intended as a limi-tatibn upon ihe preceding words,
to enable cohgress to regulate and restrain the -appellate power, as theopublic interests might, from
time to time, require.
Other clauses in the constitution might be brought
in aid of this construction; but a minute examination
of them cannot be necessary, and would occupy too
much time. It will be found that whenever a particular object is to beeffec.ted' the .language of the
coristitution is always imperative, and cannot be disregarded without violating the first principles 6fpub,
lie. duty. On- the.other hand, the Jegislative powers
are given in language which implies discretion, as
from the nature tf legislative power ,such a discretion must ever. be exercised.
It being, then1, established that the language .of this
clause is imperative, the next que'stioh isas to the
cases to'whibh it shall apply. The answer is found
in the constitution itself. The judicial poWer shall
extend to all the cases enumeratet' inthe constitution.
As the mode isnot limited, it may extend to all such
cases, in any form, in which judicial power may be
exercised. It'may, therefore, extend to fhem in the
shape of original oi' appellate jurisdicti9n, or both;
for there is nothing in the nature of the ;aseg which
binds to the exercise of the one in preference to the
other.
In what cases (if any) is this judicial power exclusive, or exclusive at the election of congress? It will
lfia obseryed that there are two classes of cases enu-

3.33
1816.
Martin

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT

1818.

merated in the constitution, between which a distincMartin tion seems to be drawn. The first class includes
I4 nter's cases arising under the contitution, laws, and
Lessee.
treaties o6f the United States; cases affecting ambassadors, othe' public ministers and consuls, and cases
of admiralty and maritime jur;diction. Inthis class
the e*xpression is, and thait the judicial power shall
extend to 411 cases; but in the subsequent part of.the
clause which embraces all the other cases of national
cognizance, and *forms"the second class, thi word
"all" is drop[ed seemingly ex "industria. Here the
judicial authority is to extefid to controversies (not
to all controversies) to which the United States shall
be a party, &c. "From this difrerenee of phraseology,
perhaps, a difference of constitutional intention may,
with propriety, be ihferred. It is hardly to be pre.
sumed that the variation in the language could have
been accidental. It niust have been the result of
some determinate reason; and it is not 'ery difficult
to-find a reason sufficient to support the apparent
change of intention. In respect to the first class,
it may well have been the intention of the framers
of the constitution imperatively to extend the judicial
power either in an original or appellate formA to all
cases; and'in-the latter class to leave it to -congress
to qialify the jurisdiction; original or appellate, in
such mannem as public policy might dictate.
The vital importance of all the cases enumerated
in the first class fo the national sovereignty, might
warrant such a distinction. In the first place, as to
cases arriving under the constitution, laws, and treaties 9 f the United Stateg. 'Here the state courts

OF THE UNITED STATES.

335'

could not ordinarily possess a direct jurisdiction.
1816.
The jurisdiction over such cases could not exist in . Martin
the state courts previous to the adoption of the conV.
stitution, and it could not afterwards be directly con- Hnteis
ferred on them; for the constitution expressly requires the judicial power to be vested in courts
ordained and established by the United States. This
class of cases would embrace civil as well as criminal jurisdiction, ?nd affect not only our internal policy,
but our *foreign, relations. It would, therefore, be
periluup to restrain, it in any manner 'whatsoever,
inasmuch as it might hazard the national safety.
The !ame remarks may be urged as-to cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls,
who are emphatically placed under -the guardianship
of the law -of nations; and as to cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, thei admiralty jurisdiction
emnrances all questions of piize and salvag.e, in the
correct adjudication of which foreigh nations are
deeply interested; it embraces also-maritime torts,
contracts,'and offences, in which the principlei of
the law and comity of nations often form an essential inquiry. All these cases, then, enter into- the
national policy, affect the national rights, and may
compromit the national sovereignty. The. original
or appellate jurisdiction ought not," therefore, to be
restrained, but should be commensurate with the
mischiefs intended to be remedied, and, of course,
should extend to all cases whatsoever.
A different policy might well be adopted in reference to the second class of cases; for although
it might be fit that the judicial power should extend

CASES IN THE $U"RE-- " COURT

336
1816.
Martin

,.
Hnoter's
RUwe

.

1 ited States should
to all controversies to which ,'..e
he a party, yet this power n.'gh, not have been iuperatively 0give.n, least it sho,ld i-- ly a right to take
cogoiz-,nce, of original suits brought against the United .St3tes as defendants in their own, courts. It
mig0t. r%t have been deemed proper to submit the
severe. nty of the United States; against their own
will, to judicial cognizance, either to enforce rights
or t- plcvert wrongs; and 6s to the other. cases, of
the ,.--cond class, they might well be 'left to be. exercise,', iunder the exceptions and regulations which
congress might,. in 'their wisdom,. choose to apply.
It is also worthy "ofremaik, that. c'ongress seem, in
a good degree, in- the establishment, of, the present
judicial system, to have adopted this distinction. In
not limited
the first class -f casespthe jurisdiction is.
except by the-'subject matter; in ,the second, it is
inaIe materially to depend upon the value in eon-

troversy,,
We do not, however, profess to place any implicit
reliance upon the distinction which h~s hete been
stated and endeavoured to-be illustrated. It has the
rather'been brought into view in deferenci to the legislative opinion, wlich has so long acted upon, and
.*nforced, this distinction. But there. is, certainly,
vast weigiht in the.argument which has been urged,
that -the constitution is.imperative upon, congress to
vest all the judicial power of the United States, in
-the shape of original jurisdiction, in the supreme and
inferior courts created under. its own authority. At
all events, whether-the one construction or the other
prevail, it is-manifest that the judicial power of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

n

United States is. unavoidably, in some cases, exclusive
of all tate authority,.and in all others, may be made
so at the electioni of congress. No part of the criminal

1816.
Mardn
V.
Hunter's

jurisdiction of the United States can. consistently with

Lesee.

the constitutioh, be delegated to state tribunals. The
admiralty and maritime jurisdictiQn is of the same exclusive cognizance; and it can only be.in thosecases
where, previous to .the constitution, state. tribunalu
poqsessed jurisdiction independent of liational authority, that they can naw constitutionally exercise a
concurrent jurisdictionm Congress, throughout the
judicial act, and particulhrly in the 9th, l1th,.and
13th sections, have legislated upon the suppositi6n
that in allf. the cases to which the judicial powers -of
the United Stales extended, they might rightfully
vest exclusive jurisdiction in their own courts.
But, even admitting that the language of the cpnstitution is not mandatory, and that .congress .may
constitutionally omit to vest the judiciil power in
courts of the United States, it cannot be demed that
when it is vested, it may be exercised to the utmost
constitutional extent.
This leads us to the consideration of the great
question as to the nature and ext nt of the appellate
jurisdiction of. the United States.. We have already
seen that appellate jurisdiction -is given by the constitution to the supreme court in all cases where 'it
has not original jurisdiction; 'subject, however, to
such exceptions and regulations'.as congress "may
prescribe;. It is, therefore, capable of embracing
every case enumerated in the constitution, which is
not exclusively to be decided by way of or ginal
Vol. .

2

336
1816.
- Martin
V.
u

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

jurisdiction. But the exercise of appellate jurisdiction is -far from being
. limited by the.terms of the
constitution to 'the supreme c6urt. There can be no
doubt that congress may create a-succession of infeior tribunals, in each- of which it may vest appellate as well as original jurisdiction. The judicial
power is delegated by the constitution in th6 n~ost
general terms, and may, therefore, be .exercised by
congress under every' variety of form, of appellate
6r original jurisdiction. And as there is nothing in
the "constitutiow which restrains or limits this power,
it-must, therefore, in all, other cases, subsist in the
utmost latitude of which, in its own nature,.it is susceptible.
As; then, by the terms of, the constitution, 'the appellate jurisdiction is not limited as to the supreme
c4rt, and as to this court it may be exercised-in all
other cases than those of which it has original c ognizance,-1what is there to restrain its exercise over state
tribunals i the enumerated cases? The appellate
power is not limited by the terms of the third article
to any particular Courts. The words are, " the judicial power (which includes appellate power) shall
extend to all cases," &c., and "in all other cases befote mentiofied the supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction.". It is the case, then, and not the
If the judicial
court, that gives the jurisdiction.
power extends to the case, it will be in vain to search
'in the letter of the constitution for any qualification
as to the tribunal where it depends. It is incumbent,
then, upon those who assert such a qualification to
show its exisfence by necessary implication. If the

OF TRH

UNITED STATES.

339

text be clear and 'djstiqct, no rpstriction upon its 1816.
plain and obvious import ought to be admitted , un- Martin
v.
less the infererce be irresistible.
Hunter's
if the constitution meant to limit the appellate L5s,eC.
jurisdiction to cases pending in the,.ourts of the
United States, it would necessarily follow that the
jurisdiction, of these courts would, in. all the cases
enumerated in the constitution, be exclusive of state
tribunals. How otherwise.could- the jurisdiction extend to all cases arising under the constitution, laws,
and treaties of the United States, or to all cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction? If some of
these cases might be entertained by state tribunals,
and no appellate jurisdiction as to them should exist,
then the appellate power would not extend to al4but to some, cases. If state tribunals might exercise
concurrent jurisdiction over all or some of .the
other classes of cases in the constitution without control, then the appellate jurisdiction bf .the.-United
States might, as to such cases, have no real existence, .
conirary to the manifest intent of the constitution.
Under such circumstances, to. give effect to the judicial power, it must be construed to be exclusive;
and this not only when the caeusfwcleris should arise
directly, but when it should arise, incidentally, in
cases pending in state courts. This construction
would abridge the jurisdiction of such court far
more than has been ever contemplated. in any act of
congress;
On the other hand, if, as has . been contended,
a discretion be vested in congress to establish, or not
to establish, inferior courts at their own pleasure, and

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

34O
1816.
t

resee.

congress should'ndt establish such courts, the appellate jurisdiction of the supreme court would have
nothing to act upon, unless it could act upon cases

pending in the state courts.

Under such circum-

stances it must be held that thb appellate power
woutd extend to state courtg ; for the congtitition is
peremptory that it-hall extend t6 certain enunerafed cases, .vhich cases could exist in no other courts.
Any other construction, upon this supposition, would
involve this s range contradiction, that a discfetionary
power vested in congress, and which ihoy might
rightfully omit to exercise, would defeai the absolute
lnjunctions of the constitution in relation to thie whole
appellaite power..
But it is plain that the framers or the constitution
did contemplate that cases within the judicial dognizance of the'United States not only might but-would
arise in'the statieepurts, in 1he exercise of their ordinary jhrigdiction, With this view the sixth article
declare's, thaot " this constitution, and the laws of the
United States which shall be made in pursuance
thereof. and,all treaties made, or which shall be made,
under the authority of thkb United States, shall be the
supreme law of' the lnd, and the judges in every
state shall be bound theteby, any thing in the constitution or ltws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding." It is obvious that thisiobligation is imperative upon the state judges in their official, and
not merely in their private, capacities. From the
very nature of their judicial duties they would be
called upon topronounce the law applicable to the
case in judgment. They were not to decide merely

OF TkE UNITED STATE.5.

according to the laws or constitution of the state, but
according to the cbnstitution, laws and treaties of the
United States-:-" the supreme law of the land.".
A momernt's consideration will show'us thd necessi-

ty and propriety of'this provision in cases where the
jurisdiction of the state courts is unquestionable.
Suppose a contract for the payment of money is
made between citizens of the same state, and performance thereof issought in the courts of that state;
no person can doubt that the jurisdiction completely and exclusively attaches, in thelfirst instance, to
such courts. Suppose at the trial the defendant
sets up in his, defence a tender under a state law,
making paper money a good tendeA or a state law,
impairing, the obligation of such contract, which law
if binding, .iv6uld' defeat the suit. 'The constitation
of the United States has declared that no state shall
make any thing bntgold or' silver coin a tender in
payment of debts, or pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts. If congress shall not have passed a law providing for the removal of such a suit to
the courts 'of the United States, must not the state
court proceed tf,hear and determine it? Can a mere
plea in defence 'be of itself a bar to further proceedings, so as to prohibit an inquiry into its truth or legal propriety, when no other tribunal exists- to whom
judicial cognizance of such cases is confided? Suppose an indictment for a crime in a state court, and
the defendant should allege in his defence that the
crime Was created by an exyostfacto apt of the state,
must not the state court, in the exereise of a jurisdiction which has already rightfully attached, have a

341

1816.
-Martin

V.

Hunter's

Lessee.

CASES IN THE S .PR ME COURT

342
181.
'

MQartin

right to pronounce on the validity and sufficiency of
the defence? It would be extremely difficult, upon

V.
any legal
Hunter's
.
.principles,. to give a negative answer to

1I~e.

these inquiries.

Innumerae.instances of the same

gort might be stated, in illustration of the position;
and unless the state courts could sustain jurisdiction
in such cases, this clause of the -sixth article would
be without meaning or effect, and public mischiefs,
of a most enormous magnitude,'would inevitably
ensue.

It. must, therefore, be concelled that the constitutign not only contemplated, but meant t) provide for
cases within, the scope of the jutdicial power of the
United States, which might yet depend before state
tribunals. It was foreseen that in the bxercise of
their ordinary jurisdiction, state courts would incidentally take cognizance of cases arising under the
constitution, the laws, and treaties of the United
States.. Yet to all these cases the judicial power,
by tie very terms of the conititution, is to extend.
Itcannot extend by original jurisdiction if that was
already rightfully and exclusively attached in the
state courts, which '(as has been already shown)
may occur; it must, therefore, extend by appellate
jurisdiction,. or not dt all. It would seem to follow
that the appellate power of the United States must,
in such cases, 6xtend to state tribunals; and if in such
cases, there is no reason why it should not equally
attach upon all others within-the purview of the conititution.
It has been argued that such an appellate jurisdiction over state courts is inconsistent with the genius

OF THE UNITED STATES.

,343

18rs.
ef our governments, and the spiiit of the constitutior.
Marttn
state
upon
act
-to
designed
Martin
That the latter was never
v.
if
that
and
people,
the
upon
only
but
sovereignties,
the, power exists, it will materially impair the sove- L
reignty of the states, and the in.dependence of their
courts. We cannot yield to the f9 rce of this reasoning; it assumes principles which we cannot admit,
and draws conclusions to which we do not yield our
assent.
It is a mistake that-the constitution was-not design-,
ed to operate upon states, in. their corporate capacities. It is crowded with provisions which restrain or
annul the sovereignty of the states'in some of the
highest branchds of their prerogatives. The tenth
section of. the. first article contains a long list.
of disabilities Pnd prohibitions imposed upon the
states. Surely, when such essential. portions of state
sovereignty are taken away, 'or prohibited. to be exercised, it cannot be correctly asserted that the 'constitution does not act upon the states. The language
of the constitution is also imperative upon: thQ states
as to the performance of many duties. It is imperative upon the state legislatures to make laws prescribing the time; places, and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives,- and for electors of president and vice-president. And in these,
as well as some other cases, congress have. a right
to revise, amend, or supercedle the laws which may be
passed by state legislatures.. When,, therefore, the
states.are stripped- of some of the highest attributes
of sovereignty, and the same are given to the United
States; when the legislatures of the states are, in some

144
1816.
Martin

V.i

anter'see

CASES IN THE SUPREME CQURT

respects, under the control of congress, and in every
case are, under the constitution, bound by. the para-

mount anthority of the United States; it is certainly
difficult to support the argumen ihat the appellate

power over the decisidns of state courts is contrary
to the genius of our institutions. The courts of the
United States can, without question. revise the proceedings of the executive and l.egislative authoritiet
of the stateq, and if they are found to be contrary to
the constitution, may declare them to be of ho legal
validity. Surely the exercise of the same right over
ju icial tribunals is not a higher or more dangerous
Act of sovereign power.
Nor can such a right.be deemed to impair the- in.
dependence of state judges. It. is assuming the
very ground .in cQntroversy to assert that they pos.
sess an absolute independence of the United States,
In respect to the powers granted to the United
States, they are. not independent; they are 'xpressly
bound to obedience by the letter of the constitutiorl;
and if they should unintentionally transcend their
authority, or misconstrue the constitution, there is
no more reason for giving their judgments an abso.
lute and irresistible force, than for giving it to the
acts of the other- co-ordinate departments of state
sovereignty.
The argument urged from the possibility of the
abuse of the revising power, is equally unsatisfactory. It is always a doubtful course, to argue against
the use or existence of a power, from ,the possibility
of its abuse. It is still more difficult, by such, an argument, to ingraft upon a general power a restric-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion which is not to be found in the terms in which
it is given. From the very nature of things, the
absolute right of decision, in the last resort, must

Hunter's

rest somewhere-wherever it may be vested it is

Lessee,

susceptible of abuse. Inall questions of jurisdiction the inferior, or appellate court, must pronounce
the final judgment; and common sense, as well as
legal reasoning, has conferred it upon the lattbr.
It has been further argued against the existence of
this -appellate power, that it would form a noveltyin
our judicial institutions. This i det'tainly a mistake.
In the articles-of confederation,'an insti'ument framed
with infinitely more defetence to state rights and
state jealousies, a power was given to congress to
establish "courts for revising and determining, finally,'appeal in all cases, of captures." It is remarka.
ble, that no power was given to entertain original
jurisdiction in such cases; and, consequently, the
appellate power (althbugh not so expressed in terms)
was altogether to be exercised in revising the decisions of state tribunals. This was, undoubtedly, so
far a surrender' of state sovereignty; but it never
was supposed to be',,a power frkught with public
danger, or destructive of the independence of state
judges. On the contrary, it was .supposed to be a
power indispensable to the public safety, irmsmuch
as pur national rights might otherwisehbe compro-'
mitted, and out national peace been dang6red. Under
the present constitution the prize:jurisdiction is confined to the -courts of the Ufiited States; and a power
to revise the dec'isions-of state courts, if they should
assert jurisdiction over prize causes, cannot be lem.
V6:. 7

2X

1816.

V.

346
1816.

'
Martin
V.
Hunter's
Lessee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

important, or less useful, than it was under the "confe:derati6n.
In this connexion we are led again to the cbnstruction of the words of the constitution, "' the judicial
power shall extend," &c. If, as has beencontended
at the bar, the term " extend" have a relative signification, and mean to widen ai, existing power,. it
will then follow, tlat, as the confederation gave-an
appellate -power over state tribunals, the constitution
enlarged or :widened that appellate power vu all the
other cases in *ihich jurisdiction is given -to the
courts of the United States. It is not.presumed that
the learned counsel would choose- to adopt such a
conclusion.
It is further argued, that no great public mischief
can result from 3 construction which shall limit the
appellate' power of the United States to cases in
their own courts: first, because state 'judges am
bound by an oath to support the constitution of the
United States, and mrst be. presumed to be men of
learning and integrity ,; and, secondly, because congress must have an unquestionable right to remove
all cases within Jhe sdope'of.the judicial power from
the state courts t 9 the courts of the United States, at
any tinie bVefore final judgment, though not after
final judgment. As to the first* reason- 2 admitting
-that the judges of the. state courts are, arid always
will be, of as much learning, integrityj and-wisdom,
as those of the courts of the United States, (which
we very cheerfully admi,) it does not aid th6 argdmenf. It is -manifest that the constitution has proceeded upon a theory of its'own, and given or with-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

held powers according to the jkidgment of the American people, by whom it was adopted. We can
only construe its powers; and cannot inquire into the
policy or principles which induced the grant of them.
The constitution has presumed (whether rightly or
wrongly we do not inquire) that state attachments,
state prejudices, state.-jealousies, and state it-terests,
might sometimes obstruct, or control, or be supposed to 6bstruct or control, the regular administration
of justice. Hence, in controyersies between states;
between citizens of different states between citizens
claiming grants" under different- states; betweei a
state and its citizens, 'or foreigners, and between
citizens and foreigners, it enables the parties, under
the .authority of congress, to have the controversies
heard, tried, and determined before the national tribunals. No other reason than that which has been
stated can be assigned, why some, at-least, of 'those
cases should not have been left to the cognizance of
the state'court5. In respect to the other enumerated cases-the cases arising under the constitution,
laws, and treaties of the United S-tates, cases affecting ambassadors and other public .ministers, and
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction--reasons of a higher and more extensive nature, touching
the safety,, peace, and sovereignty of the-nation,
might well juistify a grant of exclusive jurisdiction.
This is not all. A motive of another kind, perfectly compatible with the most sincere respect for
state tribunals, might induce the grant of appellate
p9wer 6veY their decisions. That motive is the importance, .and even necessity of uniformity 6f deci-

347

1816.
Martin

V.
Hunter's
Lessee,

348

CASES IN THE SUPREME 'COURT

1816.
sions throughout the whole United States, upon ag.
A
subjects within the purview of the constitution.
Martin
Hunt,.er's Judges of equal learning and integriVt, in different
Lessee.
states, might differently interpret a statute, or a
treaty of the United States, or even the constitution
itself: If there were no revising authority, to c6titrol
these jarring and discordant judgments, and harmonize them into uniformity, the laws, the. treaties, and
the constitution of-the United States would be different in different states; and mtght, perhaps, never
have precisely the same construction, 6bligation, or
effitacy, in any two states., The public mischiefs
that would attend such a state of things wold -be
truly deplorable; and it cannot: be believed that
they could have escaped the enlightened- convention
which formed the constitution.. What, ibideed, might
then have been only prophecy, ha. now become fact;
and the appellate jurisdiction must continue to be
the'only adequate remedy for such evils.
There is an additiofal considerati6n, which'is entitled to great weight. ThecQnstitution of the United States was designed for the ,common and equal
benefit of all the 'eople of the United States. The
judicial power.was granted for the same benign and
salutary purposes. It was not to be-exercised ex.,
clusively for ije benefit, 6f parties whv might be
-plaintiffs, and wVOufd elect the nitional forum, buf
also for the- protection of defendants who might
be entitled to try their rights, or assert, their priviliges, before the same forum.. Yet,'if the construction
contended for be correct, it'"will follow, that as -the
plaintiff may -always elect the stat court.the de-

OF THE UNITED STATE9.

fendant may be deprived of all the: security which
the constitution intended in aid of his rights. Such
a state of things can, ifl no respect, be considered as
giving equal rights. To obviate this difficulty,,we
are referred to the power which it is admitted
congress possess to remove suits from state courts to
the national courts; and this forms the second
ground upon which the. aigument we are considering has been attempted to 'be sustained.
This power of removal is not. to le found ift expi:ess terms in any- part of the constitution;, if it.be
given, it is' only given by implication; as a power hecessary and proper to carry into effedt some. express
power. The power ofremoval is certdinly not, in strictness of language; it presupposes an exercise oforiginal jurisdiction to have attachbd elsewhere. Thd existence of this power of removal is-Pamiliarin courts acting according to the course of the common law in criminal as well as civil cases, and it is exercised before
as well as after judgment. But this is always
deemed in both casds an exercise of appellate, and
not of original jurisdiction. If, then; 'the tight of
removal be included in the appellate jurisdicion, it is
only because it is one mode of eitercising that power)
and as congress is not limited by the Constitutiod to
any particularmode, or time of exercising it4it may
authoiize a removal, either before o- after judgmeat.
The timei the process, and jhe manner, miust be subject to 'its absolute legislative cobtrol. A writ of
error is, indeed, but a. process' which- removes the
record of one coui to the possession of another court,

349
1816.
M artin

V.

Hunter's
Lessee.

350

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and enables the latter to inspect the proceedings,
and give such- judgment as its own opifiion of the
'
Martin
V,. law and justice ot"the case may warrant. There is
nothing in the nature of the process which forbids it
Lunter's
Lessee.
froni being applied' by the legislhiture to interlocutory
1816.

6s well'as final judgments. And if the right of removal frotm' state courts exist before judgment, because it is included -in.the.. appellate powerr itImust,
for the same reason, exist after judgme-t. And if the
appellate power by the constitution doesnot include
cases pending in state courts, the right of remov.l,
which is but a'mode of exercising that power, canndt
be apptled to them. Precisely -the same objections,
therefore, exist as to tie rigut of rem6val before judgment, as after, and both must stand or fall together.
Nor, indeed, would the force of the arguments on
either side materially vary, if the right, of iemoval
were an exercise of original jurisdiction. It would
equally trench upon the jurisdiction and independence of state tribunals.
The remedy, too, of removal of suits would be utterly i nadeqafte.to the purposes of the constitution,
if it could act, only on the parties, andnot upon the
state courts. In respect to criminal prosecutions, the
difficulty. seems admitted to be insurmaountable; and
inrespect to civil suits, there *,ould, in many cases,
be rights withput corresponding remedies. If.state
courts should deny the constitutionality, of the authority to remove suits from their cognizance, in what
manner could- they be compelled to relinquish
the jurisdiction ? In respect to criminal cases, there
would at once be an ind of all control, and the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

state decisions would be paramount to the constitution; and though in civil sgits the courts of the United
States might act upon the parties, yet the siate courts
might act,in'the game way; and this conflict of jurisdictions would not only jeopardise private rights, but
bring into imminent peril the public interests.
On the whole, the court are of opinion, that the
appellate power of the United States does extend to
cases pending in the state courts; and that the 25th
section of the judiciary act, which authorizes the :exermise of this jtirisdiction inothe specified cases, by a
writ of error, is stfpported by the letter and spirit of
the constitution. We find no clause in that instrumerit which limits this power; and we dare not interpose a limitation where thd people have not heen dkposed to'create one.
Strong as this conclusion stands upon the -general
language of the constitution, it may. still. derive sups
port from other sources. It is an histoi'ical fact, that
this exposition of the constitution, extending its appellate power to state courtt s; was, previdus to its
adoption, uniformly 'and publicly. avowed .by its
friends, and admitted by its enemies, as.the basis of
theit respective reasonings, both in and out of the
state conventibns. It is an historical fact, that at
the time when the judiciary act was submitted tq the
deliberatiois of the first congress, composed,, ait
was, not only of men of great tearring and ability,
but of men who had acted a principal part in framing,
supporting, or opposing that constitution, the same
exposition was explicitly declared and admitted by
the friends and by the opponents 'of that system. It

1816.
Martin

V.

Lesse

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i8io.

is an historical fact, that the supreme court of the
SUnited

Martia

V.
Runter's
Lese.

States' have, from time to time, sustained this

appellate jurisdiction in a great variety of cases,
brought from the tribunals of many of the most important states in the union, and that no state tribunal has ever breathed a judicial doubt on the subject,
or declined to obey the mandate of the supreme
court, until the present occasion. This weight of
contemporaneous exposition by all parties, this acquiescence of enlightened state courts, and these ju,dicial decisions of the supreme court through so long
a period, do, as we think, place the doctrine upon a
foundation of authority whiph cannot be shaken, without delivering over the subject to perpetual and irremediable doubts.
The next 'question Which has been argued, is,
whether the case at bar be. within the purview of the
25th section of the judiciary act, so that this court
may rightfully sustain the present writ of error.
This section, stripped of passages 'unimportant
in this inquiry, enacts, in substance, that a final
judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court
of law or equity of a state, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority excised under, the United States, and the decision is against their validity; or where is drawn in
question the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, any state, on the ground of their
being repunant to the constitution,'treaties, or laws,
of the United States, and the decision is in favour of
such their validity; or of the constitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or commission held under, the Urited

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

3M

States, and the decision is against the title, right, pri- 1816.
vilege, or exenplion, specially set up or claimed by either M
.'
Bartin
pa,'ty under such clause of the said constitution, treaty,
.
statute, or commission, may be re-examined and re- Lessee.
versed or affirmed in the supreme court of the United
States, upon a writ of error, in the same manner, and
under the same regulations, and the writ shall have
the same effect, as if (he judgment or decree complained of had been rendered or passed in a circuit
court, and the proceeding upon the reversal shall
also be the same, except that the supreme court, instead
of remanding the cause for a final decision, as before
provided, may, at their discretion, ifthe cause shall have
been once remanded before, proceed to a final decision of
the same, and award execution. But no other, error
shall be assigned or regarded as a ground of reve'rsal in any such case as aforesaid, than such as appears upon the face of the record, and immcdiately respects the before-mentioned question of validity or construction of the said constitution, treaties, statutes,
commissions, or authorities in disputo.
That the present writ of error is founded upon a
judgment of the court below, which drew in question
and denied the validity of a statute of the United
States, is incontrovertible, f6r it is apparent upon the
face of the record. That this judgment is final upon
the rights of the parties is equally true; for if well
founded, the former judgment of that court was of
conclusive authority, and the former judgment of this
court utterly void. The decision was, therefore,
equivalent to a perpetual stay of pr'oceedings upon
Vo,. I.

42.
Y

-354
1816.
M~artin

V.
Hunter's
Lessee.

CASES IN THE SUPREMdE COURT

the mandate, and a perpetual denial of all the rights
acquired under it. The case, then, falls directly
within -the terms of the act. It is a final judgment
•'
in' a suit in a'state court, denying the validity of a
statute of the United States; and unless a distinction can be made between proceedings under a
mandate, and proceedings in an original suit, a writ
of error is'the propel" remedy to revise that judg,
ment. In our opinion no legal digtini-tion exists between the cases.
In causes remanded to the circuit courts, if the
mandate be not correctly executed, a writ of error oi
appeal has alwaysbeen supposedto be a properreme.
dy, and has been recognized as such in the former de.
cisions of this court. The statute gives the same effect to writs of error from the judgments of state
courts as of the circuit courts; and in its terms pro.
vides fo'r proceedings where the same cause may be
a sdcond time brought up on writ of error before the
supreme court. There is no limitation or description of the cases to which the second writ of error
may be 'applied; and it 'ought, therefore, to be coextensive with the cases which fall within the mischiefs of the mtatute. It will hardly be denied that
this cause stands in that predicament; and if so,
then the appellate jurisdiction of this court has right.
fqlly attached.
But it is contended, that the former judgment of
this coutt was rendered upon a case not within the
purview of this section of the judicial act, and that as
it was pronounced by an incompetent jurisdiction, it
was utterly void, and cannot be a sufficient founda-

OP THE UNITED STATES.

tion to sustain any subsequent proceedings. To this
argument several answers may be given. In the first
place, it is not admitted that, upon this writ of error,
the former record is before us, The error now assigned is not in the former 'proceedings, but in the
judgment rendered upon the mandatb issued after
the fomer judgment. The question nowi litigated
is not upon the construction of a treaty, but upon the
constitutionality of a statute of the United 'States,
which is clearly wihin our jurisdiction. In the next
place, in ordinary cases a sec6nd. writ of error' has
never been supposed to draw in question the propriety of the first judgment, and it is difficult to perceive, how such a prouteeding could be sustained
upon principle. A final judgment of this cout is
supposed to be conclusive upon the rights which it
decides, and no statute has provided. any process -by
which this court can revise its own .judginents. In
several cases which have been formerlY adjudged in
this court, the same point was argued by counsel, and
expressly overruled. It was solemnly held that'a
final judgment of this court was conclusive upon the
parties, and could not be re-examined.
In this case, however, from motives of a public nature, we are entirely willing to wave all objections,
and to go back and re-examine the question of jurisdiction as it stood upon the record formerly in judgment. We have great confidence that our jurisdiction will, on a carefil examination, stand confirmed as
-well upon principle as authority. It will be recollected that the action was an ejectmient for a parcel
of land in the Northern Neck, formerly belonging to

355

1816.
Martin

V.
Hunter's
Lessee.

36qASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.356
1816.
-

Martin

V.

Hlunter's

essee.

Lord Fairfax. The original plaintiff claimed the
land under a patent granted to him by the state of
Virginia, in 1789, under a title supposed to be vested
in tat state by escheat or forfeiture. The original
defendant claimed the lahd as devisee under the will
of Lord Fairfax. The parties agreed to a special
statement of facts in- the nature of a special verdict,
upon which the district court of Winchester, in 1793,
gave # general judgment for the defendant, which
judgment was afterwards reversed in 1810, by the
couit of appeals, and ,a general judgment was rqndered foi the plaintiff; and from this last judgment a
writ of error was brought to the supreme court.
The statement of facts contained a regular deduction of the title-of Lord Fairfax until his death, ia
.178t, and alsp the title of his devisee. It also contained a regular deduction of the title of the plaintiff,
under the state of Virginia; and further referred to
the tredty of peace of 1783, and to the acts of Virginia respecting the lands of Lord Fairfax, and the
supposed.escheat or forfeiture thereof, as component
parts of the. case. No facts disconnected with the
titles thus set up by the parties .were alleged- on
either side. -It is apparent, from this summary explanation, that thn titlq thus set up by the plaintiff
might be open to other objections; but the title of
the defendant was perfect and complete, if it was
protected by the treaty of 1783. If, therefore, this
court had authority to examine into the whole record;
and to decide upon the legal validity of the title of
the defendant, as well as its application to the treaty
of peace, it would be , case within the express pur-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

view of the 2.5th section of th act; .,br there was
nothing in the record upon which the court below
could bave- decided but upon the title as connected
wit.h the treaty; and if the title was otherwise good,
its sufficiency must have depended aitogether upon
its protection under the treaty. * Under such circumstances it was strictly a suit where was drawn in
question the construction of a treaty, -and the decision was against the title specially set up or claimed
by the defendant. It would fall, then, within the
very terms of the act.
The objection urged at the bar is, that this- court
cannot inquire into the title, but simply into the correctne'ss of the construction put upon the treaty by
the court of alpeid]; and that their judgment is not
re-examinable i-ern unless it appear on- the face of
the record that some construction was put upon the
treaty. If, therefore, that court might have decided
the case upon the invalidity of the, title, (and, nor
constat, that they did not,) independent of thetreaty,
there is an end of the appellate jurisdiction of this
court. In support of this objection much stress is
laid upon the last clause of the section, which declares, that no other cause shall be regarded as a
ground of reversal than such as-appears on the face of
,he record and immediately respects the construction
of the treaty, &c., in dispute.
If this be the true construction of the section, it
will be wholly inadequate for the purposes which it
profes. es to '*have in view, Pid niay be evaded at
pleasure. But we see no reason for adopting this
narrow construction; and there are the strongest

1816.
Martia

v.
guter's
Lessee.

CASES IN THE SUP'REME COUR'T

M8

1816.

reasons against it, founded upon the words as well
the intent of the legislature. What is the case
fbr which the body of the section provides a remedy
Va.ir
Hunter's by writ of errcr ? The answer must be in the words
Lessee."
of the section, a suit wheie is drawn in question t.e
cnstruction *ofa treaty, and the decision is against
the title set up by the party. It is, therefore, the decision against the title set up with reference to the
treaty, and not the tere abstract' construction of the
treaty itself, upon which the sttute intends to found
the appellate jurisdiction. How, indeed, can it be
p&ssible to decide whether a title b-e within the protection of a treaty, until it is ascertained' what that
title is, and whether it have a legal validity? From
the very necessity of the case, there must be a preliminary inquiry into the existence and structure of
the title, before the court can cohstrue the treaty in
reference to that title. If the court below should
decide; that the title was bad, and, therefore, not
protected by the treaty, must not thiT court have a
pow-er to' decide the title to be good, and, therefore,
protected by the, treaty ? Is not the treaty, in both
instances, equally construed, and the title of the
party, in reference to the~treaty, equally ascertained
and decided ? Nor does the clause relied on in the
objection, impugn this construction. It requires, that
the error upon which the appellate court is to decide, shall appear on the face of the record, and immediately respect the questions before mentioned ia
as to th conthe section. One of the questions is'
struction of a treaty upon a title specially set up by
a party, and every error that immediately respects
Sas

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that question, must, of course,:be within the cognizance. of the court. The title set up. in this case is
apparent upon the face of the record, and immediately .respects the decision of that questior;, any error,
therefore, in respect to that titl? must be re-examinable, or the case could never'be presented to the
court.
The restraining clause was manifestly intended for
a very different purpose. It was foreseen that the
parties might claim under various titles, and might assert various defences, altogether independent of each.
other. The court might admit or reject evidence
applicable to one particular title, and not to all, and
in such cases it was the intentiori of congress. to limit what:would oth',rwise have unquestionably attached to the court, the right of reVising all the
points involved in the cause. It therefore restrains
this right to such errors as respect the questions
specified in the section; and in this view, it has an
appropriate sense, consistent with the preceding
clauses. We are,, therefore, satisfied, -that, upon
principle, the case was rightfully before us, and if
the point were perfectly new, we should not hesitate
to assert the jurisdiction:
But the point has been already decided by this
court upon solemn argument. In Smith v. The State
of Maryland, (6 Cranch, 286.,) precisely the same
objectibn was taken by counsel, and overruled by
the unanimous opinion of the court. That case was,
in some r:espeets, stronger than the present; for the
court below decided, expressly, that the party had no
title, and, therefore. the treaty could not operate

359

1816.
Martin

V.
Hunter's
Iessee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

upon it. This court entered into an examination of

Martin

that question, and being of the same opinion, affirmed the judgment. There cannot, then, be an authority which could more completely govern the present

V.

Hntere

question.
It has been asserted at the bar that, in point of
fact, the court of appeals did not decide either upon
the *treaty or the title apparent upon the record, but
upon a compromise made under an act of the legislature of Virgihia.. If it be true (as ive are informed) that this was n .private act; to, take effect only
upn a certain condition, viz. the execution of a deed
of rblease of certain lands, which was matter in paiis,
it is somewhat difficult to understandhow the court
could take judicial cognizance ofithe act, or of the performance of the condition, unlegs spread upon the record. At all events, we are bound to consider that
the court did decide upon the facts actually before
thea.- The ireaty of peace was not necessary to
have been stated, for it was the supreme law of the
land, of which all courts must take notice. And at
the time of the decision in the court of appeals and
in this court, another treaty had intervened, which
attached itself to the title in controversy, and, ol
course, must have been the supreme law to govern
the decision, if it should be found applicable to the
case. It was in this view that this court did not
deem it nece!ssary to rpst its former decision upon
the treaty of peace, believing that the titfe of the
defendant was, at all events, perfect ur9der the treaty
of 1794.

OF THE UNITED -STATES.

The remaining questions respect more the prac- 1816.
tice than the principles of this court. The forms of "

nibdes of proceeding in the exercise
processu
process, and the
of jurisdiction are, with few exceptions, left by the
legislature to be regulated and changed as this court

may, in its discretion, deefii expedient.

By a rule

of this court, the return of a copy of a record of the
proper court, under the seal of that court, annexed
to the writ of eiror, is declared to be " a sufficient
compliance with the mandate of the writ." The record, in this case, is duly certified by the clerk of the
court of appeals, and annexed to the writ of error.
The objection, therefore, which has been urged to
the sufficiency of the return, cannot prevail.
Another objection is, that it does not appear that
the judge who granted-the writ of error did, upon
issuing the citation, take the bond required by the
22d section of the judiciary act.
'We consider th'at provision as merel.y directory to
the judge; and that an omission' does not avoid the
Wqrit of error. If any party be prejudiced b-' the
omission, this court can grant him summary relief,
by imposing such terms on the other part. as, under
all the circumstances, may be legal and proper.
But there is nothing in the record by which we can
judicially know whether a bond has been taken or
not; for the statute does not require the bond to be
returned to this court, and it might, with equal propriety, be lodged in the court below, who would ordinarily execute the judgment to be rendered on the
writ. And the presumption of law is, until the conVol. .

2 Z

<i
flier'sV

e

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
0
Martin

trary appears, that every judge who signs a citation
has obeyed the injunctions of the act.
V.
We have thus gone over all .the principal quesHunter's
Lessee.
tions itn the cause, add we -deliver out judgment with
entire confidence, that it is consistent 'with the constitution and laws of the land.
We have not thought it incumbent on us to give
any opinion upon the question, whether this court
have authority to issue a writ of mandamus to'the
court of appeals to enibrce 'the former judgments,.as
we do nbt think it'necessarily involved in the decision
of this cause.
It is the opinion of the whole court, that the judg;
ment of the court of appeals of Virginia, rendered
on the mati&te in this cause, be reversed, and the
judgment o' the district court, held at Winchester,
be, and the. same is hereby affirmed.
Joii~soN,J. It will be observed in this case, that
•the court disavows all intention to decide on the
right,to issue compulsory process to the state courts;
thus leaving us, in my opinion, where the constitution ahd laws place us-supreme over persons and
cases as far as our judicial powers extend, but not
asserting any compulsory control over the state tribunals.
In this view I acquiesce in their opinion, bu.t not
.altogetbhr in the reasoning, or opinion, of my brother who delivered it. Few minds are accustomed
to the same habit of thinking, and our conclusions
are most satisfactory to ourselves when arrived at in
our own way.

CF THE UNITED STATES.

362

1816.
1 have another reason for expressing my opinion
on this occasion. I view this question as one of the Marin
v.
most momentous inpQrtance; as one which may afHunter's
fect, in its consequences, the permanence of the Lessee,
American union. It presents dn instance of collision
between the judicial powers of the union, and one
of the greatest states in the union, on a point the
On
most delicate and difficult to be adjusted,
the one hand, the general government mutst cease
to exist whendver it loses the' power of protecting
itself in the exercise of its constitutional powers.
Force, which acts upon the physical poweis of man,.
or judicial process, which addresses itself to his moral principles or his fears, are the only means to
which governments can resort in the exefcise of their
authority. Th6 former is happily unknown to ihe
genius of our constitution, except as far as' it shall
be sanctioned by the latter; but let the latter be
obstructed in' its progress by an - opposition which it
eannot overcome or put ,by,. and the resort must be
to the former, or government is no more.
On the other hand, so firmly am I persuaded, that
the Amercan people can no longer enjoy the blessings of a free gov.ernmrerit, whenever. the state sovereignties shall be prostrated at the feet of the general government, nor the proud consciousness of
equality and security, -ay longer than the independence of judicial power shall be maintained consecrated and intangible, that, I could borrow the language of a celebrated orator, and exclaim, " I rejoice that Virginia has resisted." .
Yet here I must claim the privilege of expressing

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1616.
Martin
v,

Lessee.

my regret, that the opposition of the high and truly
respected teibunal of that state had not been marked with .a little more moder ation. The only point
necessary to be decided ip the case then bbfore theri
was, " whether they were bound to -obey the mandate
em/nating from tMis court?" But in the judgment entered on their minutes, they have affirmed that the
case was, in this court, coram nonjudice, or, in other
words, that this court had not-jurisdiction over it.
This is assuming a truly alarming latitude of judicial power. Where is it to end? Itis an acknowledged principle of, I believe, -every court in the
world, that not only the decisions, but every thing
done under the judicial process of courts, not having
jursdiction, are, ipsofacto, void. Are, then, the judgments of this court to be reviewed in every court of
the union ? and is every recovery of money, every
change of property, that has taken place under our
process, to-be considered as null, void, and tortious ?
"Wepretend not to more infallibility than other
courts composed of the same frail materials which
compose this. It would be the height of affectation
to close our minds upon the recollection that we
have been extracted from the same seminaries in
-which originated the learned men who preside over
the state tribunals. But there is one claim which
.we can with confidence assert in our owln name u-pon
thosie tribunals-the profound, uniform, and unaffected respect which this court has always exhibited for
state decisions. give us strong pretensions to judicial
comity. And another'claim I may assert, in the name
of the 1mericanpeople; in this courtv pvery state in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the union is reprcsented; we are constituted by the
voice of the union, and when decisions take place,
which nothing but a spirit to give grPund and harmonize can reconcile, ours is the superor claim upon
the comity of the s tate tribunals. It is the nature of
the human .mind to ptess a favourit6 hypothesis too
far, but magnanimity will always be ready to sacrifice-the pride of opinion to public welfare.
In the case befpre us, the collision has been, on
our part, wholly- unsolicited. The .exercise of this
appellate jurisdiction over the state decisions has
long been acquiesced in, and when the writ of error,
in this case, ws allowed ky the president of,the court
of appeals of Virginia, we were sanctioned in supposing that we. were, to meet with the same acquiiescence there. Had that court refused to giant the
writ ii .the •first instance, or had the question' of. jurisdictilon, or 6h the' mode of exercising, jurisdiction,
been made here originally, we should have been put
on our guard, and might have so modelled the process
of the court -as to. strip it of the offensive, fori of"a
mandate. In this case it might have been brought
down to what probably the 25th section of the judiciary act meant it should be, to wit, an alternative
judgment, either that the state court may finally
proceed, at its option, to carry into effect the judgment of this court, or, if it declined doing so that
then this court would proceed itself <to execute it.
The language, sense, and operation of the 25th section'on this .subject, merit particular atiention. In
the preceaing section, which has relation to causes
brought up by writ of' error from the circuit court:

36.4
1816.
Hunter's
Lessep..

366.

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

of the United States, this courtis instructed not to
issue executions, but to send a special mandate to
Martin
v.
the circuit court to award executipn thereupon. In
fHunter's
Lessee. case of the circuit court's refusal to obey such mandate, there could be no doubt as to the ulterior
measures; coihpulsory process might, unquestionably, be resorted to. Nor, indeed, was there any
reason to suppose that they ever would refuse; and,
therefore, there is 'noprovision made for authorizing
this court to execute its own judgment in cases of
that description. But not so, in eases brought up
from the state courts; the framers of that law plainly
foresaw that the state courts might refuse ;' and not
being willing to leave ground for the. implication,
that compulsory process must be..resorted to, because no -specific provision was made, they have
provided, the means, by authorizing this court, in
case of reversal of the state decision, to bxecute its
own judgment. In case of reversal only was this necessary; for, in dase of affirmance,' this collision
could not arise. It is true, that the words of this
section are,- that this court may, in their discretion,
proceed to execute its oWn judgment. But these
words were very properly put in, that it might not
be made imperative upon thi court to proceed indiscriminately in this way; as it could only be necessary in case of the refusal of the stAte courts; and
ihis idea is fully confirmed by the words of the 13th
section, which re.trict this court -in issuing the writ
of mandamus, so as to confine it expressly to those
coirts which are constituted by the United States.

1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

36

1816.
In this point of view the legislature is completely
vindicated from all intention to violate the ".idepenMarin
dence of the state judiciaries. Nor ban this court,
with any more correctness, have imputed to it similar Hunter's
Lessee;.
intentions. The form of the mandate issued in this
case is that'known to appellate tribunals, and used in
the ordinary cases of writs of error from the courts
of the United States. It will, perhaps, not be too
much, in such cases, to expect of those who are conversant in the forms, fictions, and technicality of the
law, not to give the process of courts too .iteral a
conbtruction. They should be considered with a
view to the ends they are intended to answer, and
the law and lractice in which they originate. In
this view, the mandate was no more than a mode -of
submitting to that court the option which the 25th
section holds out to them.
Had the decision bf the court of Virginia been confined to the point of their legal obligation to carry
the judginent of this court into effect, I should have
tlought it unnecessary to make any further observations in this cause. But we are called upon to vindicate our general revising power, and its due exercise in thig particular case.
Here, that 'I may not be charged with arguing
upon a -hypothetical case,, it is necessary to ascertain
what tile real question is which this court is now called to decide on.
In doing this, it is necessary to do what, although,
in the abstract, of very questionable propriety, appears to be generally acquiesced in, to. wit, to reViiew the case as it originally came tip to this court

368

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

on the former writ of'error. The cause, then, came
'up
upon a case stated between the parties, and under
Martin
.
the .practice of that state, having the effect of a speHunter's
1816.

'

Lsee.

cial verdict. The case stated brings into view the
treaty of peace with Great Britain,.and then proceeds
to present the various laws of Virginia, and ihe facts
upon whiclh the parties found their respective titles.
It then preseits-no particular question, but refers
generally to the law arising out of the case. The
original decision was obtained prior to the treaty of
1794, but.before the case Was'adjudicated in this
court, the treaty of 1794 had been concluded.
The difficulties.of -the case arise under-the construction.of the 25th section above alluded to, which,
as far as it relates to this case, is in these words: "A
final judgment or decree in any suit, in the highest
court Qf law or equity of a state in which a decision
in the suit could be had," "where isdrawn in question the construction of-any clause of the constituition
or of a treaty," "and the decision is 'against the title
set up or claimed by either party under such clause,
may be re-exanined and reversed, or affirmed."
"But no other error shall:be assigned or regarded
as a ground of reversal in bany such cas6 as aforesaid,
than such as appears on the fac6 of the iecord, and
immediately respects the before-mentioned questons
of validity or construction of the~said treaties," &x.
The first point decided under.this state of-ihe case
was, that' the judkment being a part of the record, if
that judgmerit 'was not such as, upon that case, it
-,,crht to have been, it was an error apparent 6n' the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

face of the record.
-But it was contended that
the case there stated presented -a number of points
upun which the decision below may have been founded, and that it did not, therefore, necessarily appear
to hhve been an error immediately respecting a question on the construction of a treaty. But the court
belo, that as the reference was general to the law
arisine out of the case, if one question arose, wilich
called for the construction of a treafy; and the decision negatived the right -set up under it, thi court
will feverse that decision, and that it is the duty of
the party who would aVoid the inccnvenience of this
principle, so to mould the case as to obviate the ambiguity. And 'under this point arises the question
whether this court can inquire into the title of the
party, or whether they are so' restricted in their
judicial powers as to be confined to decide on the
operation of a treaty upon a title previously ascertained to exist.
If there is any one point iI the case on which an
opinion may be given with confidence, it is this,
whether we consider the letter of the statute. or the
spirit, intent, or meaning, of th4 constitution and of the legislature, as expressed in the 27th section, it
is equally clear that -the title is the priinary object to
which the attention of the court is called in every
such case. The words are, "and tbhi decision be
against the title," so set up, riot against the construcHion of the treaty contended for by-the party setting
up the title. And how could'it be otherwise ? The
title may exist, notwithstanding the decision of the
state courts to the contrary; and in tbt case the
VoL. I

IA

369
1810.
Martin

V.
Lessee.

Hunter's

370"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

party is entitled to the benefits intended to be securea
the treaty. The decision to his prejudice may
have been the result of those very errors, partialities,
or defects, in state jurisprudence against which the
constitution intended to protect the individual. And
if the contrary doctrine be assumed, what is the consequence ? This court may then be called upon to decide on a mere hypothetical case-to give a construction to a treaty without first deciding whether there
"wasany interest on which that treaty, whatever be its
proper construction, would operate. This difficulty
was felt, and weighed in the case of Smith and the
State of Maryland, and that decision was founded
upon the idea that this court was not thus restricted.
But another difficulty presented itself: the treaty
of 179Mb had become the supreme law of the land
since the judgment rendered in the court below.
The ddfendant, who was at that time an alien, had
now become confirmed in his rights under that treaty.
This would have been no objection to the correctness of the original juldgment. Were we, then, at
liberty to notice that treaty in rendering the judgment of this court?
Having dissented from the opinion of this court in
the original case, on the question of title, this difficulty did not present itself in my way in the view I
then took of the case. But the majority of this court
determided that, as a public law, the treaty was a
part of the law of every case depending in this court;
that, as such, it was not necessary that it should be
spread upon the record, and that it was obligatory

'by

V-.
• runter's
Lessee,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

upon this court, in rendering judgment upon this
writ of error, notwithstanding the original judgment
may haie been otherwise unimpeachable. And to this
opinion I yielded my hearty consent ; for it cannot
be maintained that this court is bound to give a
judgment unlawful at the time of rendering it, in con-,
sideration that the same judgment Would.have been
lawful at any prior time. What judgment can now
be lawfully renderedbetween the parties is the question to which the attention of the court -is called.
And if the law which sanctioned the original judgment expire, pending an appeal, this court has repeatedly reversed the- judgment below, although
rendered whilst the law, 6xisted. So, too, if the plaintiff in error die, 'pending suit, and his land descend
on an alien, it. cannot be contended that this court
will maintain the suit in right of the judgment, in
favour of his ancestor, notwithstanding his present
disability.,
It must here be recollected, that this is an action.
of ejectment. If the term formally declared upon
expires pending the action,.the court will permit the
plaintiff to amend, by extending the tenrn-why ?
Because, although the right may have been in him
at the commencement of the suit, it has ceased before judgment, and without this amendment he could
not have judgment. But suppose the suit were
really instituted to obtain possession of a leasehold.
and the lease expire 'before judgment, would the
court permit the party to amend in opposition to the
right of the case ? On the contrary, if the term
formally declared on were more extensive than the

1816.
Martin

V.
r,3ee.

372
1816.
%
Martin
v.
'Hunter's
Lessee.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

lease in wvnich the legal title was founded, could they
give judgment for more than costs? It must be recollected
that, Under this judgment, a writ of restitlu
I
tion is the fruit of the law. This, in its very nature,
has relation to, and must be-founded upon, a present
existing right at the time of judgment. And whatever be the cause which takes this right away, tl~e
remedy must, in the reason and nature of things, fall
with it.
When all these incidental points are disposed ,of,
we 'find the qudstiofi fina'lly reduced to this-does
the judicial power of the United States exten d to
the revision of decisions of state courtsi in cases
arising under treaties ? -But, in order to generalize
the question, and present it in the true form in which
it presents itself in this case, we will inquire whether
the constitution sanctions the exercise of a revising
power over-the decisions of state.tribunals in those
cases to which the judicial power of th,. United
States extends ?
And here it appears' to me that the great difficulty is on the other side. That the real doubt is, whether the state tribunals ban ..onstitutionally exercise
jurisdiction in any of the cases to which the judicial
power of the United States extends.
Some cession of judicial power is contemplated by
the thir'd atticle of" the coristitution : that which is
ceded can no longer be retained. In one of the circuit courts of the United States, it has been decided
(with what correctness I will not say) that the cession of a~power to pass an un.form act of bankruptey, although not acted on by the United Stwtes, de-

OF THE -UNITED STATES.

prives the states of tne power ot passing laws to
that effect. With regard to the admiralty and marttime jurisdiction, it'would be difficult to prove that
the.states could resume it, if the United States should
abolish the courts vested with that jurisdiction; yet,
it~is blended with the other cases of jurisdiction, in
the second section of the third article, and ceded in
the same words. But it is contended that the second section of the third article contains no express
cession of jurisdiction ; that it. only vests a power in
congress to assume jurisdiction to the extent therein
expressed. And under this head arose the discussion
on the construction proper to be given to that article.
On thig part of the case I shall not pause long.
The rules of construction, where the nature of the
instrument is ascertained, are familiar to every one.
To me the constitution appears, in every line of it,
to be a contract, which, in legal language, may be
denominated tripartite. The parties are the people,
the states, and the United States. It is returning in
a circle to contend, that it professes to be the exclusive act of the people, for what have the people done
but to form this compact? That thv states are recognised as parties to it is evident from various passages, and particularly that in which the United
States -guaranty to each'state a republican form of
gov~rninent.
The security and happiness of the whole was tlhe
object, and, to prevent disserlon and collision, each
surrendered those powers which migh, make themdangerous to each other. Well aware of the sensi-

373
1818.
Martin
v.
Hunter's
Lessee

374

CASES IN THE SUgiREME COURT

tive irritability of sovereign states, where their wills
or interests .clash, they placed themselves, with reV.
gard to each other, on.the footing of sovereigns upon
Trunteres
T
sthe
ocean; where power is mutually conceded to
act upon the individual, but the national vessel must
remain unviolated. And to remove all ground for
jealousy and complaint, they relinquish the privilege
of being any longer the exclusive arbiters of their
own justice, where the rights of others come in
question, or the great interests of the whole may be
affected by those feelings, partialities, or prejudices,
whkh they meant to put down for ever.
Nor shall I enter into a minute discussion on the
meaning of the language of this section. I have selaom found much good result from hypercritical severity, in exa'mining the distinct force of words. Language is essentially defective in precision; more so
than those are aware of who are not in the habit of
subjecting it to philological analysis. In the case before ts, for instance, a rigid construction might be
made, which would annihilate the powers intended
to be ceded. The words are, " shall extend to;"
now that which .extend to, does not necessary indude in, so that the circle may enlarge until it reaches
the objects that limit it, and yet not take them in. But
the plain and obvious sense and meaning of the word
sha/, in this sentence, is in the future sense, and has
nothing imperative in it. The language 6f the framers of the constitution is, " We are about forming
a general government-when that government is
formed, its powers shall extend," &c. I therefore
iee nothing imperative in.this clause, and certainli
1816.

Martin

OF THE UNITED STATES.

it would have been very unnecessary to use the
word in that sense; for, as there was no control-

.375

1816.
%

Martia

ling power constituted, it would only, if used in an
imperative sense, have imposed a moral obligation to
act. But the same result arises from using it in a
future sense, and the constitution everywhere assumes, as a postulate, that wherever power is given
it will be used or at least used, as far as' the interests of the American people require it, if noi from
the natural proneness of man' to the exercise of
power, at least from a sense of duty, and the obligation of an oath.
Nor can I see any difference in the effect of the
words used in this section, as to the scope of thejirisdiction of the United States' courts over thc cases
of the first and second description, comprised in that
section. " Shall extend to controversies," appears
to me as comprehensive in effect, as " shall extend
to all cases." For, if the judicial power extend " to
controversies between citizen and alien," &c., to
what controversies of that description does it not extend? If no case can be pointed out which is ex..
cepted, it then extends to all controversies.
But I will assume the construction as a sound one,
that the cession of power to the general government, means no more than that they may assume
the exercise of it whenever they Lhink it advisable.
It is clear that congress have hitherto acted under
that impression, and my own opinion is in favour of
its correctness. But does it not then follow that
the jurisdiction of the state court, within th^ range
ceded to the general government, is permitted, and

V.
Hunter's
Lessee.

376

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

may be wifhdrawn whenever congress think proper
~ to do so? A9 it is a principle that every one may
Martin 'renounce
a right introduced for his benefit, we will
fluntc's admit that as congress have not assumed such jurisrLesse6. diction, the state c6urts may, constitutionally, exer1816.

cise jurisdiction in such cases. Yet, surely, the general power to withdraw the exercise of it, in6ludes
init the right to modify, limit, and restrain that exercise. " This is my domain, put not your foot upon
it, if you do, you are subject to my laws, I have a
right to exclude yoni altpgethei';. I have, then, a
right to prescribe the terms of your admission to a
participation. As long as you conform to my laws,
participate in peace,' but I reserve to myself the
right of judging how far your acts are conformable
to my la~vs." Analogy, then, to the ordinary exercise of sovereign authority, 'would sustain the exercise of this controlling or revising power.
But it is argued that a power to assume jurisdiction to the constitutional extent, does not necessarily carry with it a right to exercise appellate power
over the state tribinals.
This is a momentous question, and ontt on 'which I
shall reserve myself uncomimitted for each particular
case as if shall occur. It is enough, at -present,to have
shown that congress has not asserted', aihd this court
has not attempted, to exercise that' kind of authority in personam over the state courts which would
plate them in the relation of an inferior responsible
body without their own acquiescence. And I have too
much confidence in the state tribunals to believe -that
a case ever will occur in wbich it will be necessary

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for the general government to assume a cofitrolling
power over these tribunals. -But is it difficult to

suppose a case which will call loudly for some reliedy or restraint? Suppose a foreign miiister, or
an officer, acting regularly under authority from the
United States, seized to-day, tried to-morrow, and
hurried the next day to execution. Such cases may
occ!ur, and have occurred, in 6ther countries. The
angry vindictive passions of men havetoo often made

their way into judicial tribunals, anct we cannot hope
for ever to iscape their baleful influeiice.

in the

Case supposed, there ought o, be a power somewhere io. restrain.or punish, or the union must be

dissol-,ed. At present the uncontrollable exercise of
criminal jurisaiction is most securely confided to the
state tribunals. The courts of the United.States
are vesfed with no power tr scrutinize into thepio"
ceedings of the state i ourts in criminal cases; *onthe
contrary, the general government bs, in More than
one instance, exhibited their confidence, by a wish
to vest them with the execution of -their own penal
law. And extreme, indeed,- I flatter myself, must
be the chse in-Which the general government could
ever be induced to assert this right; If ever such a
case should. occur, it will be time enough to, decide
-dpon their constitutional power to do so.
Bilt wd know that by the 3d article of the constitution, judicial power, to a certain extent, is vested in the general government, and that-by the same
instrument, power is given to pass all laws necessary to carry into effect-the provisions of the constitu.
-tion. At present it is only necessary to vindicate the
Vat.

.

3 B

1816.
Martin

V.
Hunter's
Lessee.

378
1816.

a
T.
1Hunter'u"
rz,,mee,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

laws which they 'have passed affecting civil capes
pending in .tate tribunals.
In legislating on this subject, congriess, in the true
spirit of the constitution, have proposed to secure t
every one the full benefit of the constitution, without forcing any one necessarily into the courts of
-fhe United States. With this view, iAone clas of
cases, they have not taken a-way absolutely from the
state courts all the cases to Which their judicial power extends, :but left it to the plain tiff. tq bring his
to the deaction there, originally, if he.chooe,.p
fendant to force the plaintiff into the, 46urts of the
United.States where they have jurisdictiop, and the
former has instituted his suit in the state courts.. In
this case they ha.e not made it legal -for the .defendant to plead to the jarisdiction; the effect, of which
would be to put "an end to the -plaintiff'9 suit, and
oblige him, probably at great risk or - expense,- to
institute a new action; but the act has givep him a
right to obtain an order'for aremoval, on a petition
to the state court, upon which the cause, with-all its
existing advantages, is. transferred io the circuit
court of the United States. This, I presume, can be
subject to no objection; as the legislature has an
unquestionable right to make the ground bf removal
a ground of plea to the jurisdiction, and the court
.,must then do -no more than it is now called upon to
do, to wit, give an order or a judgment, or call it
what we will, in favour of that defendarnt. And so
.far from asserting the inferiority of the state tribunal, this act is rather that of a superior, inasmuch as
the circuit court of the United.States becomes bound,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

by that order, to take jurisdiction of the case. This
method, so much more .unlikelyto affect official delicacy than that which is regorted to in the other
class of cases, might, perhaps have been more happily applied to all the cases\.which the legislature
thohght it advisablc to remove from the state courts.
But the other class of cases, in which the present is
included, was proposed to be provided for-in a different mariner. And here, dgain, the legislature of
the union evince their confidence in the state tribunals ;,for they do not attempt. to give original cognizance to their own circuit courts of such cases, or to
rbmove them by petition and order;. but still believing that their decisions will be generally satisfactory,
a writ of error is not given immediately -as a question
within'the jtirisdiction- of th6 United States shall occur, but. only in case the decision shall finally, in the
court of the last resbrt, be against the title set up
under the constitution, treaty, &c.
In this act I can see nothing which amounts to an
assertion of the inferiority or dependence of the state
tribunals. The presiding judge of the state court
is hiimself authorized to issue the writ of error, if he
will; and thus give jurisdiction to the supreme court:
and if he thinks proper to decline it, no compulsory
process is provided by law to oblige him. The party
who imagiries himself aggrieved, is then at liberty to
apply to a judge of the United States, who issues
the writ of error, which (whatever the form) is, in
substance, no more than a mode of compelling the
opposite partyto appear before this court, and maintain the legality of his judgment obtained before the

1816.
Marti.

V.
Hunter's
Lesee

380

CASE8 IN THE SUPREME COURT

state tribunal. An exemplifi.cation of a record is the
1816.
kcommon
property of every one who chooses to apply
Martin
v.
and pay for it, and thus the case and the parties arc
Hunter's
JA see." brought before us; and so far is the- court itself
from being brought under the revising.power of this
court, that nothing but the case, as presented by the
record and pleadings of the parties, is considered,
and tho opinions of the court are never resorted.tQ
unless for'the purpose of assisting this court in forming their own opinions.
The absolute nbcessity that there was for congress
to exercise something'of a revising power over cases
and parties in the state courts) will appear from this
consideration.
Suppose the whole extent of the judicial power of
the United States vested in their own bont'ts, yet such
a provision would not answer all the ends of the constitution, for two reasons;
Ist. Although the plaintiff niray, in such case, have
the. full benefit of the constitution extended td him,
yet the defendant would not; as the plaintiff might
force him into the 'court of the state at his electinn.
2dly. Supposing it possible so to. legislate as- to
give the courts of the United States original jurisdictiar, in all cases a.ising under the constitution, laws,

&c., in the. words of the 2d section. of the 3d article,
.(a point on which I have some doubt, and .which.in
time might, perhaps, iipder some 'quo minp fiction,
or a willing constroction, greaotly accumulate the jurisdiction of 4hSe courts,) yet a very large class of
cases would remain unprovided for. Incidental ques-.
tions would ofte&4 arise, and as a court of competent

OF THE UNITED STATES.

jurisdiction in the principal case must decide all such 1816.
questions, whatever laws they arise under, endless
might be the diversity of decisions throughout Mati.
the union upon the constitution, treaties, and laws, HLunters
of the United States; a subject on which the tran-

quillity of the union, internally and externally, may
materially depend.
I should feel the more hesitation in adopting the
opinions which I express in this case, were I not firmly convinced that they are practical, and may be acted
upon without compromitting the harmony of the
union, or bringing humility upon the state tribunals.
God forbid that the judicial power in these states
should ever, for a moment, even in its humblest'departments, feel a doubt of its own independence. Whilst

adjudicating on a subject which the laws of the country assign finally to the revising power of another
tribunal, it can feel no such doubt. An anxiety to
do justice is ever relieved by the knowledge that
what we do is not final betweep the parties. And
no sense of dependence can be felt from the knowledge that the parties, not the court, may be summoned before another tribunal. With this View, by
means of laws, avoiding judgments obtained in the
state courts in cases over which congress has constitutionally assumed jurisdiction, and inflicting penalties on parties who shall contumaciously persist .in
infringing the constitutionaf rights of others-under
a liberal extension of the writ of injunction and the
habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, I flatter myself
that the full extent of the constitutional revising
power may be secured to the United States, and the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

382
1816.
"
Commercen

benefits of it to the individual, without ever resorting
to compulsory or restrictive process upon the state
tribunals; a right which, I repeat again, congress
has not asserted, nor has this court asserted, nor does
there app--ar any-necessity forasserting.
The remaining points in the case being mere

questions of practice, I shall make no remarks upon
them.
Judgment affirmed.

(PRIZE.)

The Comrwrcen.-LlNDGR .

Claimant.

Provisions, heutral property, but the growth of the enemy's country,
and destined for the supply of the enemy's, military or naval forces,
are contraband.
Provisions, neutral property, and the growth of a neutral country,
destined for the general supply, of human life in the enemy's country, are not contraband.
Freight is never due to the neutral.carrier of contraband.
Qucsre, in what cases the vehicle of contraband is confiscable ?
A neutral ship, laden with provisions, enemy's property, and the
growth of the enemy's country, specially permitted to be exported
for the supply of his forces, is not entitled to freight.
It makes no difference in such a case, that the enemy is carrying on a
.distinct war, in conjunction with his allies, who are friends of the
captor's country, and that the provisions are intended for the supply
of his troops engaged in that war, and that the ship in-which they
axe transported belongs to subjects of one of those allies.

APPEAL

from the circuit court for the district of

Massachusetts.

This was the case of a Swedish

