CA5ES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
L'lnvincible(PRIZE.)

L'hwinwible.-The CONSUL QF FRANcE,, and HILL
& M'CoBE, Claimants.
During the late war between the United States and Great Britain, a
French privateer, duly commissioued, was captured by a British
cruiser, afterwards recaptured by an American privateer; again
captured by a squidron of British frigates, and recaptured by another American privateer, and brought into a port of the United
States for adjudication. Restitution, on paymept of salvage, was
claimed by the French consul. A claim was also interposed by
citizens of the United States, who alleged that their property had
been unlawfully taken by the French vessel before her first capture,
on the high seas, and prayed an indemnification from the proceeds.
Restitution to the original French owner was decreed; and it was
held, that the courts of this country have no jurisdiction to redress
any su'pposed torts coinmitted on the high seas upon the property of
its citizens by a cruiser regularly commissioned by a foreign and
frLndly power, except where such cruiser has been fitted out in
violation of our neutrality.

fromn the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts.
The Fre-6ch private armed ship L'Invincible,
duly commissioned as a cruiser, was, in March,
1813, captured by the British brig of war La Mutine. In the same month she 'was recaptured by
the American privateer Alexander; was again captured, on or about' the 10th of May, 1813, by a
British squadron, consisting of the frigates Shannon
and Tenedos; and, afterwards, in the same month,
again recaptured by the American privateer Young
APPEAL

OF THE UNITED STATES.

239

1816.
Teazer, earrid into Portland, and libelled in the
district court of Maine for adjudication, as prize of
as material to be LInfiucible
war. The proceedings, o far
stated, were as follows: At a special term of the
district court, held in June, 1813, a claim was interposed by the French consul-on behalf of the French
owners, alleging the special facts above mentioned,
and claiming restitution of the ship and cargo, on
payment of salvage. A special claim was also interposed by Mark L. Hill, and Thomas M'Cobb, citizens of the United States, and owners of the ship
Mount Hope, alleging, among other things, that the
said ship, having on board a cargo on freight, belonging to citizens of the United States, and bound
on a voyage from Charleston, S. C. to Cadiz, wus,
on the hi.rh seas, in the latter part of March, 1813,
in vi6lation of the law of nations, and of treaties,
captured by L'lnvincible, before her capture by La
Mufine, and carried to places unknown to the claimants, whereby the said ship Mount Hope, and cargo,
became wholly lost-to the owners, and thereupon
praying, among other things, that- after payment of
salvage, the residue of said ship L'Invincible, and
cargo, might be cohdemned and sold for the payment
of the damages sustained by the claimants. At the
same term, by cQnscnt, an interlocutory decree of
condemnation to the captors passed against said ship
L'Invincible, and she was ordered to be sold, and
one moiety of the proceeds, after deducting expenses,
was ordered to be paid to the captors, as salvage,
and the other moiety to be brought into court, to
abide the final decision of the respective claims of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

240
1816.

the French consul and Messrs. Hill & M'Cobb.
bThe
cause was then continued for a further hearing
unto September term,
1813, when Mes~rs. Maisonarra & Devouet, of Bayonne, owners of L'Invincible, appeared under protest, and in answer to the
libel and claim of Messrs. Hill & M'Cobb alleged,
among other things, that the ship Mount Hope was
lawfully captured by L'Invincible, on account of
having a British license on board, and of other suspicious circumstances, .inducing a belief of British
interests, and ordered to Bayonne for adjudication; that (as the protestants believed) on the
voyage to Bayonne the Mount Hope was recaptured,
by a British cruiser, sent into some port of Great
Britain, and there finally restored by the court of
admiralty to the owners, after which she pursued
her voyage, and safely arrived, with her cargo, at
Cadiz, and the protestants thereupon prayed that
the claim of Messrs. Hill & M'Cobb might be dismissed. The replication of Messrs. Hill and M'Cobb
denied the legality of the capture, and the having
a British license on board the Mount Hope, and alleged embezzlement and spoliation by the crew of
L'Invincible, upon the capture; admitted the recapture by a British cruiser, arid the restitution by
the admiralty upon payment of expenses, and prayed that the protestants might be directed to appear absolutely and 'without protest. Upon these
allegations the district court overruled the objections to the jurisdiction of the court, and compelled the owners of L'Invincible to appear absolutely, and without protest, and thereupon the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

owners appeared absolutely, and alleged the same
matters in defence which were stated in their answer
under protest,' and prayed the court to assign
Messrs. Hill & M'Cobb to answer inter:ogatories
touching the premises, which was ordered by the
court. Accordingly, Messrs. Hill & MLCobb made
answer to the interrogatories proposed, except an
interrogatory which required a disclosure of the
fact, whether there was a British license on board,
which M'Cobb (who was master of the Mount
Hope at the time of the capture). declined answering, upon the ground that he was not compelled to
answer any question, the answer to which would
subject him to a penalty, forfeiture, or punishment;
and this refusal, the district court, on application,
allowed. Hill, in answer to the same interrogatory,
denied'any knowledge of the existence of a British
license. The cause was, thereupon, heard on the
allegations and evidence of the partiet, and the district court decreed that Messrs. Hill & M'Cobb
should recover against the owners of L'Invincible
the sum of 9,000 dollars damages, and the costs of
suit. From this decree the owners appealed to the
circuit court, and in that court their plea to the jurisdiction was sustained, and the claim of Messrs.
Hill & M'Cobb dismissed, with costs. An appeal
was, thereupon, entered by them to this court.
Dexter, for the appellants. The sole question is,
whether the district court of Maine had jurisdiction.
It is a case where a citizen, against whose property
Vol. T.

211

1816.
L'Jnvincible

CASES IN TEI

SUPREMIE COURT

1816.

a tort has been committed on the high seas, appears

~
L'Invincible

in
his own natural forum, and the res, which was the
instrument

of the wrong done, is within the
territorial jurisdiction of his own country, and in possession
of the court for other (lawful) purposes when he
applies for justice. 1.An injury of this nature is
either to be redressed by a process in rem or in
personam, and in either case, application must be
made where the 1hing, or person, is found. The
action is transitory in both cases; where the party
proceeds in rem, the possession of the thing gives
jurisdiction to the tribunal .having that possession.
It is said, that in prize proceedings, the forum of the
captor is the only one havingjurisdictibn. But what
is the extent of the principle, and what are the exceptions to the rule ? The rule is not of a nature
peculiar to prize proceedings, but is rather a corollary from the general principles of admiralty jurisdiction.' The locality of the question of prize or no
prize must hive been originally determined by the
fhct of the property being carried infra prwsidia of
the captor's country, and in possession of its courts.
I agree that the possession of the thing .doesnot give
jurisdiction to a neutral country, and the reason is.
because the country is neutral. But this has only
been recently settled; and in the reign of Charles 11.
the question was referred to the crown lawyers in
England, (then neutral,) whether the property of
English'subjects, unjustly taken by foreign cruisers,
sh'uld not be restored to them by the English court."

-v2Browne's Civ.

and .4din. Law, 256.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1816.
It is, however, now determined that, imless there has
been a breach of neutrality in the capture, the courts -Ilnvincible
of a neutral state cannot restore, much less condemn.
But this concession does not shake the position, that
local jurisdiction is founded upon the possession of
the res, which in this case having escaped from-the
former captor, the action becomes transitory, and
follows the thing. There are several decisions of
this court, all confirming, either directly or by anIn the famous realogy, the position now.taken
port of Sir George Lee, &c., on"the memorial of the
king of Prussia's minister, relative to the non-payment of the Silesian loan, which was intended to
maintain the strongest maritime pretensions of Great
]3ritian, the only passage that even glances at the
doctrine of the exclusive jurisdiction of the cQurts of
the captor's country is, that all captors are bound to
submit their seizures to adjudication, and that the
reg ular andproper court is that of their own country.
But this principle is sus,:.ined rather by the authority
of usage and treaties, than by elementary writers;
and yet, all the othtr incidental questions are
illustrated by multifarious ciiations of' elementary
books, equally respected in Prussia as in England.
The reporters.do not fairly-meet the menace of the
Prussian monarch, to set up courts ofprize in his own
dominions; but content themselves with asserting
tlat it would b6 irregular, abstird, and impracticable.

b 3 Dalil. 6, Glass v. the Betsey.
o

Dall. 333, Del Col. v. Arnold.

3 Dal. 133, Talbot r. Jansen.

3 Dall. 138, The May Ford.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
Lof
L'Invincible

Had it been at that time settled by European jurists
authority, the question would not have been

made; or if made, would have been satisfactorily
answered. The general prinoiple has been rather
assumed, than proved: And the practice of one nation,
at least, contradicts it; for the ordinance of Louis
XIV. restores the property of French subjects
brought into the ports of France.' 2.' Suppose the
c Ordonnancede Id ).Aa;ine,liv.
3. tit. 9., Des Prises, art. 15.
The same provision is contained in
the 16th article of the Spanish
ordinance of 1718; and Valin considers the restitution of tlie effects
as a just recompense for the benefit rendered to the captor, in
granting him an asylum in the
ports. of the neutral country to
whosesubjects those effects belong.
But. Azuni contests this opinion,
and maintilins that the obligation
to restore in this case is founded
on the universal law of nations.
Part 2, c. 4. art. 3. s. 18. And
it must be confessed, that the
reasons on which Valin rests
his opinion are by no means satisfactory; so that the French and
Spanish ordinances are evidently
mere municipal regulations, which
have not been incorporated into
the code of public law, and cannot be justified upon sound principles. It is an observation, somewhere made by M. Portalis, that
such regulations are not, properly
Epeakiug, to h.e considered laws,
but are essentially variable in

their nature, pro temporibus et
causiv, and are to be tempered and
modified by judicial wisdom and
equity.
These ordinances are
indeed supported by the practice
of the Italian states, and the theory
of certain Italian writers. Among
the latter are Galliani and Azuni,
both of whom maintain, each upon
different grounds, the right of the
neutral power, within whose territorial jurisdiction a prize is
brought, to adjudicate upon the
question of prize or no prize, so
far as the property of its own subjects are concerned. They are,
however, opposed by their own
countryman, Lampredi, who, after
assigning the reasons for his dissent, concludes thus,-" Egli"
(the neutral) dunque dovrd rispettare questopossesso (that of the
captor) lasciando cite i gimdici
costituiti dal Sosrano del predactore lo dichiarinoo legiUimo, o
illegittino, e cosi o liberino la preda o lafaccianopassare in doninzio del predatore, purche qucsto
giudizio si faccia fitori del suo
terrlto,*to. ore nu.no usurpa;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

245

question of prize or no prize to be exclusively within

the jurisdiction of the courts of the capturing power,

case.
yet that question does not arise in the present
This is a question of probable cause. If the com-

mander of L'Invincible took without probable cause,
he had no right; if he took with probable cause,
then the claimants have sustained no injury, and
ought not to recover damages; consequently, no injury can result from the court taking cognizance of

the suit. As to the spoliation after the capture, that
is still .less a question of prize. 3. But be the
general principles as they may, the jurisdiction haviig
attached for other purposes on recapture, the former
owner of -a vessel unlawfully taken and .despoiled

by the prize, comes in and claims damages under the
law of nations.
Pinkney, contra.

If there be any rule of pub-

p2u, i dirrili spettanti al soimo co-belligerant.

1st. The case of

*inpero. Efilso adunqueindirrito a capture made by the cruisers of
quello, cie asserisceit Galiani,ed il
.rogeUo, ch'egli proptone sulgiudizio delle prede non si portrebbe
cseguire senza lesione dei dirihi
sovrani. Liampredi, p. 228. Since
the decision of the case to which
this note is appended, the following
may be considered as the only
exceptions to the general rule, that
the question of prize or no prize,
with all its incidents, is only to be
determincd in the courts of the
captor's nation established in his
country, or in that of an ally or

the belligerants within the juris.
diction of a neutral power; and
2d, That of a capture made by
armed vessels fitted out in violation of its neutrality, and where
the captured property, or the capturing vessel, is brought into its
ports. The obvious foundation of
these exceptions is to be discovered in the right and the duty of
every neutral state to ma:-tain its
neutrality impartial!3 , aad neithcr
to do nor suffer any act which
might tend toinvcveiin thewar.

1816.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
lic law better established than another, it is, that the
"ii
LMavineible question of prize iL soleJy to be determined in the
courts of the captor's country. The report on the
memorial of the king of Prussia's minister, refers to
it as the customary law of the whole civilized world.
The English courts of prize have recorded it; the
French courts have recorded it; this court has
recorled it. It pervades all the adjudications on
the law of prize, and it lays; as an elementary
principle, at the very foundation of that law.
The whole question, then, is, whether this case be
an exception to the general rule. The positive law
of nations has ordained the rule; the natural law of
nations has assigned the reasons on which it is founded; and Ruthe~forth, in his Institutes,' explains those
reasons, which arise from the amenability of governments to each other. A cruiser is amenable only
to the government by whom he is commissioned;
that government is amenable to the power whose
subjects are injured by him; 'and after the ordinary
prize judicature is exhausted,-they arc to apply to
their own sovereign for redress. The principal object of that judicature is the ex.amination into the
conduct of the captors. The question of property
is merely incidental. But, whatever the question
may be, it is to be judged exclusively by the courts
of the capturing power. It is contended, on the
other side, that'this jurisdiction must be exerted in
rem; but the jurisdiction to which Rutierforth refers is. much more extensive, not confining it to the
question whether the property be translated. If the
c 2 Ruthe

rth's Institkes! 594.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

thing be within 'he possession Df the court, then it

247
1816.

exerts a jurisdiction in rem, by restitution, or condem- "
L'Invmncib.'!
nation, as the case may be. But if not, then it exerts
it on the person, and inquires into the manner in which
the captor has used his commission, and whether any
wrong has .been dove to friends, -under colour' of -its
authority. It is a gratuitous assumption, that prize
jurisdiction is always in re?4, as that of the ordinary
court of admiralty usually is.. The commissioned
captor cannot be respon sible to any but his own
sovereign; from him he receives the law which forms
his rile of conduct. Sir William Scott expressly admits that his king can give him the law, and the judges
.of other European couintries. practically admit the
same thing; Afortiori, can the sovereign give it to'his
delegated cruisers; he being an.swerable oier, in the
first instance, diplomatically, and finally by war, fo
the inju'rcd nation.. The captor is responsible only
through the courts of his own country. 2. Is this
case an exception to the general rule ? The reasons
of the allowed exceptions do not appl*' to this case.
Thus the cases a.re, of violation of neutral territory;
or where a commission is issued td subjects of the
neutral country; or, lastly,of a prize brought into its
territorial limits :with neutral property on board. in
the case of Talbot v. Jailsen the 'commission was
null, and captures under it were void; it was equivalent to no commission at all. Here is no pretence
that the commission was null; that:she had been fitted out here; or that the thing captured had been
brought within the grasp of our municipal law; or
'that the capture was made within our limits. I

248

CASES IN THE SUP11EME COURT

Del Col v. Arnold the ground of the decision was,

1816.

the thing
1Z was brought voluntarily into our
limits, and the wrong .done within those limits.

Sthat

L'Invincible

The judgment must be supported on that ground,
or it cannot be supported at all. As to the Betsey, its authority is doubtful, and it cannot be
referred to. any intelligible principle, unless it be
that the belligerant captor submits to the neutral
jurisdi.ction, by bringing the property within, it.
The Cassius,d is directly in point for the captors in
the case now before the court. Why was the libellat.t's application refused in that case ? Because the
thing captured was not brought -in; thereby'showing
that, in the present case, the prize not having bedn
brought in, damages cannot be awarded against the
captor. As to the ordinance of Louis XIV., it goes
no further than this court did in the case of the Betsty. The same authority has been practically assumed among the Italian states; but further no nation, ancient or modern, has gone.. The natural,
customary, and conventional law of nations, are all
equally adverse to it. The claimants have a remedy,
correspondent to the extent of their injury, in the
courts of France. The prize jurisdiction is as effectually exerted when the property is not, as when
it is, within its control. The cases are multiplied
where the thing is even lost, of an application com.
pelling the captor to proceed to adjudication; if he
fails to show that the capture was lawful, he is
mulcted in costs and damages. The cruisers of
d 3 Dall. 121.
e 1 Bob. .19. Ths net; y

249

OF THE UNITED STATES.

every nation ae bound to obey the instructions of
the sovereign power, whether lawful or not.

The

.condemnations under the British orders in council of November, 1793, were reversed by the lords
of appeal, and mere dry restitution decreed, without
damages, because the cruisers were justified by the
instructions. But the commissioners under the 7th
article of the British treaty of 1794, gave damages
for what the lords of appeal were obliged judicially
to refuse them, upon the authority of Rutherforth,
and upon the grouned that the British government
was answerable over to the injured power. In the
present case, if justice should be refused in the
courts of France, the French government would be
answerable over to this country. The process is
here,, in effect, in personam, and it is as if the captor
were here. You go beyond retaining your own
property merely, and lay your hand on his; which is
his by the municipal code only: by. the law of nations
it is the 'property of the state. It is certain he was
not originally responsible personally, and the capture and recapture can have made no difference.
The acts exerted over him by the enemy, could not
have changed his responsibility; nor can the captor's
having failed to proceed to adjudication in France,
for the claimants may compel him; not the bringing in
of his vessel, for, as to him, it was involuntary. 3. Probable cause is emphatically a question of prize or no
prize; but it is not always the same by the law of different countries. The law of France must, therefore,
be looked into, and applied to the case, which the
French courts only are competent to expound. If their
Vol

.

2T

1816.
L'Invincibla

"250
1816

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

exposition does injustice to the party, his remedy is by
t6 his own government. So, also, is the
question of spoliation a question of
prize; and the
prize court, having jurisdiction of the principal matter, has jurisdiction of all its incidents.

Lapplication

Dexter, in reply. 1. There is only one authority
produced to show that the prize jurisdiction is exclusively in the courts of the capturing power. Rutherforth speaks only of cases whore the proceeding is
to condemn, -1o restore, the captured property.
When he, or any other writer, gives the reasons for
his opinion, the latter is worth just as much as the
former, and no more. What is the reason ? He says
it cannot oe known before trial that forcible possession was lawful; and if unlawful, it could not
give jurisdiction. It may be answered, in every
case where jurisdiction is gained by possession, it is
unknown before trial whether it was obtained lawfully, or by force, or fraud. All right ofjurisdiction
from possession is thus equally denied. The other
party cannot be injured by submitting to the jurisdiction while that uncertainty remains. If it shall
appear that the pbssession was unlawfully acquired,
he will be restored to his right by the exercise of
jurisdiction.
Rutheiforth asserts, that the true
ground of prize jurisdiction is, that the state of the
captor is responsible to other states for his misconduct. It may be answered, that when the state has
only granted a lawful commission, and has not assented to any unlawful act done by colour of it, such
state is not responsible, though the act be unlawful.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

For the naked unauthorized act, then, the state is not 1816.
accountable. The unjust judgment of a neutral
.state, condemning the property, might make the lat- L'InyinciW'
ter state answerable, but not the former. The reasoning goes on the supposition that the state of the
captor might relieve itself from responsibility by
doing justice, in restoring the property.' This can
only be done where the property can be reached by
it. Holding jurisdiction would rather relieve the
state of the captor from responsibility; for either the
injury of the complaining party would be repaired,
or the courts of his own country would determine
that he had not suffered any. There is no distinction between the property being lawfully brought
in, as in this case, or voluntarily, as in the case of the
Betsey. The injured party has an election to proceed in personam against the owners, or in gem
against the inanimate instrument of the wrong. 2.
There may be a jurisdiction to restore, without invading the exclusive prize jurisdiction of the captor's
country. Let the court take jurisdiction, and if it turns
out to be a question of prize or no prize, then dismiss
the suit. Suppose the question to be, whether the captorhad a commission, mustwe not proceed further, and
see .what is the extent of that commission ? And if the
act done exceed its limits, has not the neutral state
a right to adjudge costs and damages to its citizens
injured, without any authority from the captor's
sovereign? 3. The vessel is in judicature, rightfully
and lawfully. The party now protesting against the
jurisdiction, had submitted to it for another purpose.
He claims his .property upon the payment of salvage.

252

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The obvious answer to his demand is, When you have
discharged all liens, you shall have it. The court of
'
L'Invipcible
admiralty, having jurisdiction for another purpose,
like a court of chancery in the -case of a mortgage,
has a right to do complete equity. Why is restitution decreed in the case of violated territory ? Because the courts of the neutral state, having jurisdiction for the principal purpose of avenging its violated
sovereignty, also takes jurisdiction of all the
kfncident6.
1816.

March ith.

JoHniSox, J., delivered the opinion of the court.

It would be difficult to distinguish this case, in principle, from those of the Cassius and the Exchange,
decided in this court. The only circumstance, in fact,
in which they differ, is, that in those cases, the vessels
wcre the property of the nation i in this it belongs to
private adventurers. But the commission under
"which they acted was the same; the same sovereign
power which could claim immunities in those eases
equally demands them in this; and although the privateermay be considered a volunteer in the war, itisnot
less a 'part of the efficient national force, set in action
for the purpose of sibd uing an enemy. There may be,
indeed, one shade of difference between them, and it
- g February Term, 1012. In
this case it was determined that a
public vessel of war, belon-ing to
the Empcror Napoleon, which was
before the property of a citizen of
the United States, and, as alleged,

wrongfully seized by the Frencb

coming into our ports, and demeaning herself in a friendly
manner, was exempt from the
jurisdiction of this country, and
could not be reclaimed by the for,
mer owner in its tribunals.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

253

is that which is suggested by Rutherforth in the 1816.
passage quoted in the argument. The hull, or the •
owners of the privateer, may, perhaps, under some L'Invincible
circumstances, be subject to damages in a neutral
court after the courts of the captor have decided
that the capture Was not sanctioned by his sovereign,
-But, until such a decisioni, the seizure by a private
armed vessel .is as much the act of the sovereign, and
entitled to the same exemption from scrutiny, as
the seizure by a national vessel. In the case of the
Cassius, which belonged to the Freich republic, the
vessel was finially prosecuted and condemned on an
information qui tam, under the act of Congress for
an illegal out-fit, and thus had applied to her, under
the st4tute, the principle which dictated the decision in
the case of.Talbot v. Jansen with relation to a private a.rmed vessel. As*to the restitution of prizes,
made in violation of neutrality, there could be no
reason suggested for creating a distinction between
the national and the private armed vessels of a
belligerent. Whilst a neutral yields to other nations
the unobstructed exercise of their sovereign or
belligerant rights, her own dignity and security require of her the vindication of her own neutrality,
and of her sovereign right to remain the peaceable
and impartial spectator of the war. As to her, it
is immaterial in whom the property of the offending
Vessel is vested. The commission un'der which the
captors act is the same, and that alone n6mmunicates
the right of capture even to a vessel'which is national
propert.y.
-

251
1816.
L'InvincibIe

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

But it is contended that, admitting the general
principle, that the exclusive cognizance of prize
questions belongs to the capturing power, still the
peculiar circumstances of this case constitute an exception, inasmuch as the recapture of the Mount
Hope puts it out of the power of the French courts
to exercise jurisdiction over the case. This leads
us to. inquire into the real ground upon which. the
exclusive cognizance of prize questions is yielded to
the courts of the capturing power. For the appellants, it is contended, that it rests upon the possession
of the subject matter of that jurisdiction; and as the
loss of possession carries with it the loss of capacity
to sit in judgment on the question of prize or no
prize, it follows, that the rights of judging reierts to
the state whose citizen has been devested of his property. On the other hand, I presume, by the reference to Rutherforth, we are to understand it to be
contended'that it is a right conceded by the customary law of nations, because the captor is responsible to
his sovereign, and the sovereign to other nations.
gut we are of opinion that it rests upon other
grounds; and that the views of Vattel on the subject
are the most reconcilable to reason, and the nature
of things, and furnish the easiest solution of all the
questions which arise under this head. That it is a
consequence of the equality and absolute inddpendence of sovereign states, on the one hand, and of
the duty to observe uniform impartial neutrality, on
the oter.I
Under the former, every sovereign becomes the
acknowledged arbiter of his own justice, and cannot,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

consistently with his dignity, stoop to appear at 1816.
the bar of other nations to defend the acts of his
and le- Luincibh
commissioned agents, much less the justice
gality of those rules of conduct which'he prescribes
to them. Under the latter, neutr .s are bound to withhold their interference between the captor and the
captured; to consider the fact of possession as conclusive evidence of the right. Under this it is, also,
that it becomes unlawful to devest a captor of possession even of the ship of a citizen, when seized
under a charge of having trespassed upon belligerant rights.
In this case the capture is not made as of a vessel of the neutral power; but as of one who, quitting
his neutrality, voluntarily arranges himself under
the banners of the enemy. On this subject there
appears to be a tacit convention between the neutral
and belligerant; that, on the one hand, the neutral
state shall not be implicated in the misconduct of the
individual; and on the other, that the offender shall
be subjected to the exercise of belligerant -right. In
this view the situation of a captured ship of a citizen
is. precisely the same as that of*any other captured
neutral ; or, rather, the obligation to abstain from imterference between the captor and captured becomes
greater, inasmuch as it is purchased by a conicession
from the belligerant, of no little importance to the
peace of the world, and particularly 6f the nation of
the oflending individual. The belligerant contents
himself with cutting up the unneutral commerce, and
makes no complaint to the neutral power, not even

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
n

where the individual rescues his vessel, and escapei
into his own port after capture.
Testing this case by these principles,
it will be
appelthe
found that, to have sustained the claim of
lants, the court below would have violated the hospitality which nations have a right to claim from each
other, and the immunity which a sovereign commission confers on the vessel which acts under it; that
it would have detracted froma the dignity and equality of sovereign states, by reducing one to the conA
dition of a suitor in the courts of another, and from
the acknowledged right of every belligerant to judge
for himself when his own rights on the ocean have
been violated or evaded; and, finally, that it would
have been a deviation from that strict line of neutrality which it is the universal duty of neutrals to
observe-a duty of the most delicate nature with
regard to her own citizens, inasmuch as through
their misconduct she may draw upon herself the imputation of secretly supporting one of the contending
parties. Under this view of the law of nations on
this -subject, it is evident that it becomes immaterial
whether the coipus continue sub potestate of the,
capturing power, or not. Yet, if the recapture of the
prize necessarily draws after it consequences so fatal
to the rights of an unoffending individual as have
been supposed in the argument, it may well be asked,
shall he be referred for redress to courts which,
by the state of facts, are rendered incompetent to
afford redress ?
The answer is, that this consequence does not
follow from the recapture. The courts of the cap-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

267

tor are still open for redress. The injured neutral,
it is to be presumed, will there receive indemnity

1816.

'L'Invincible

for a wanton or illicit capture; and if justice be re-

fused him, his own nation is bound to vindicate, or
indemnify him.
Some confusion of idea appears to hang over this
doctrine, resulting chiefly from a doubt as to the
pmode in which the principle of exclusive cognizance
is to be applied in neutral courts to cases as they
arise; and this obscurity is increased by the apparent bearing of certain cases decided in this court.
in the years 1794 and 1795.
The material questions necessary to be considered,
in order to dissipate these doubts, are, 1st. Does this
principle properly furnish a plea to the jurisdiction
of the admiralty courts ? 2d. If not, then does not.
jurisdiction over the subject matter draw ofter it every
incidental or resulting question relative to the disposal of the proceeds of the res subjecid ?
The first of these questions was the only one
settled in the case of Glass v. The Bet sey, and the
ease was sent back with a view that the district
court should exercise jurisdiction, subject, however,
to the law of nations on this subject as the rule to
govein its decision.
And this is certainly the correct course. Every
violent dispossession of property on the ocean is,
prima facie, a'maritime tort; as such, it belongs to
the admiralty jurisdiction. But sitting and judging,
as such courts .do, by the law of nations, the moment
it is ascertaired to be a seizure by a commissioned
cruiser, made in the legitimate exercise of tlW kights
Vor. LK

CASES IN 'IfI1E SUPREME COURT
1816.
V' Invincible

of war, their progress is arrested; for this circumstance is, in those courts, a sufficient evidence of
right.
That the mere fact of seizure as prize does riot,
of itself, oust the neutral admiralty court of its,
jurisdiction, is evident from this fact, that there are
acknowledged cases in which the courts of a neutral
may interfere to, devest possessions; to wit, those in
invaded:
which her own right to stand neutral is.
and there is .nocase in which the court of a neutral
may *notclaim the right of determining whether the
capturing vessel be, in fact, the commissioned cruiser
of a belligerant power. Without the eiercise of
jurisdiction thus far, in all cases, the ppwer 6f the
admiralty would be .inadequate to afford protection
from piratical capture. The case of TaJbot v. Jan"
sen, as well in the reasoning of the judges as in the
final decision of the case, is fully up to the support of
this doctrine. But it is supposed that the case of the
Mary Ford supports the idea, that as the court had
acknowledged jurisdiction ove, th 9 question of salvage, its jurisdicti6n extended 'over the whole- sb-'
jiect matter, and authorized it to. proceed finally
to dispose of the residue between the parties litigant.
That case certainly will not support the doctrine
to the extent contended for in this case. It is true,
that the court there lay down a principle, which, in
its-, general application, is unquestionably correct,
and ,which, cqnsidergd in the abstra.ct,*might be supposed applicable to the. present case. 'But this preseats only one. of innumerable case# which occur in

OF THE UNITED STATES;-

1816.
otr books to prove how -apt we are to misconceive
and misapply the decisions of a court, by detaching L'lnvincible
those*decisions friom the-case which the court propose
to decide. The decision of the supreme court in
that case is in strict conformity with that of the'circuit court in the present case. For When the court
come to apply their principle, they do not enter into
'the question of prize between the belligerants, but
decree the residue to the last possessor: thus miaking'
the fact of possession, as between the parties litigant,
the criteri6n of right.; and this is, uriquestionably, consistent with the law of nations. Those points, which
can be disposed of without any reference to the legal
exercise of the rights of war;' the court proceeds to
decide; but those which necessarily involve the ques-.
tion of prize or no prize, they )remit to another tribunal.'
It would afford us much satisfaction could we,
with equal facility, vindicate the consistency of this
court in the case of Del Col v. Arnold. To sayfthp
least of that case, it certiinly requires an apology.
We are, however, induced to- believe, from several
circumstances, that we have transmitted to us but
an imperfect- sketch of the' decision in that case.
-The brevity with which the case is reported, Which
we are informed had been argued successively at
two terms,-by men of the first legal talents, necessarily suggests Jhis opinion;- and when- we refer to the
case of the Cassius, decided but the term preceding,
and observe the. correctness with which the law applicable to this,.case, in principle, is laid down in

260
1816.
Lvb

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the recital to the prohibitions, we are confirmed in
that opinion.
But the case itself furnishes additional
confirmation. There is one view of it in which it is reconcilable to every legal principle. It appears that,
when pursued by the Terpsicore, the Grand Sachem
was wholly abandoned by the prize crew, and left
in possession of one of the original American crew,
and a passenger; that, in their possession, she was
driven within our territorial limits, and was actually
on shore when the prize crew resumed their possession, and plundered and scuttled her. Supposing this
to have been a case of total dereliction, (an opinioh
which, if incorrect, was only so on a point of fact,
and one in support of which much might be said,
as the prize crew bad no proprietary interest, but
only a right founded on the fadt of possession,) it
would follow,* that the subsequent resumption of
possession was tortious, and subjected the parties to
damages. On the propriety of the seizure of the
Industry, to satisfy those damages, the court give no
opinion, but place the application of the proceeds of
the sale of this vessel on the ground of consent; a
principle, on the correctness of the application of
which to that case, the report affords no ground to
decide.
But, admitting that the case of the Grand Sachem
was decided under the idea that the courts of the
neutral can take cognizance of the legality of b~elligerant seizure, it is glaringly inconsistent with the
acknowledged -doctrine in the case of the Cassius
and of Talbot v. Jansen, decided the term next

OF THE UNITED STATES.

preceding; and in the Mary Ford, decided at the
same term with that of the Grand Sachem. The
subject has frequently, since that term, been submitted to the consideration of this court, and the
decision has uniformly been, that it is a question exclusively proper for the courts of the capturino"
power.
Sentence affirmed.

(INSTANCE COJRT.)

Th Edwad.-ScOTT, Clamant.
In revenue, or'instance causes, the circuit court may,. upon appeal,
allow the introduction of a new allegation into the information, by
way of amendment.
Under the 3d section of the act of congress, of the 28th of June, 1809,
every vessel bound to a foreign permi~ted port, was obliged to give
a bond, with condition not to proceed to any port.wjth which commercial intercourse was not permitled, nor to trade with such
port.
Where the evidence is sufficient to show a breach of the law, but the
information is not sufficiently certain to authorize a decree, the
supreme court will remand the cause to the circuit court, with directions to all6w the information to be amended.

from the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts. The offence charged in the infor•mation filed in this case, in t!le district court of Massachusetts, is, that the ship Edward, on the 12th dayof February 1810, departed from the port of Sa.
APPEAL

2961

1816.
The
eward.

