OF THE UNITED STATES.

125
1816.
The
Astrea.

(PRIZE.)
THE ASTREA.
Apn enemy's vessel was captured by a privateer, recaptured by an.
other enemy's vessel, and again recaptured by another privateer,
and brought in for adjudication. It was held that the prize vested
in'the last capfor.- An interest acquired in wax, by possession, is de.
vested by the loss of possession.
APPEAL

from the circuit court for the, district of

Georgia. This was an enemy's vessel, captured by
the privateer Ullor, in sight of Suinam, on the 147th
of May, 18i3; and on the 13th of June, 1813, recaptured by an enemy's vessel of war, about two'
leagues from the coast of Georgia, and, on the snme
day, recaptured by the privateer .Midas,and brought
into the port of Savannah, for adjfdication. The
prize was adjudged to the last captors, by the decree
of the court below, from which the first captors appealed to this court.
Charleton, for the appellants, contended; that the
prize interest vested in the first captors. He argued,
that the opinions of eminent civilians, and the practice of the continental nations of Europe, ought to
prevail, rather than the decisions of the British
cnurts of prize; which last are founded on reaso'is of
comm,.cial and naval policy, peculiar to England.

Sir William Scott himself admitted, that there is no

126
31816.
Te
The
Astrea.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

general rulea but adopted the rule of condenma.
tion, as most convenient for his own country; be,
cause, by protracting the period for the devesture of
British interests, it places the property of British
subjects upon a better and more secure footing than
-!he rule adopte, by any other nation. It gives a
wider range to the jus postliminii, and enlarges the
probability of recapture; a probability, which is
converted almost into a certainty, by the maritime
strength of Great Britain. Other nations, not having the same means of giving protection and security to captures, have adopted rules requiring a less
firm and shorter possession, in order to devest the
property. These rules are, 1st. That of immediate
possession. 2d. That of pernoctatibn and twentyfour hours possession. 3d. The bringing infra prcesidia. The first is held sufficient by Izuni;c and
though his own opinion is entitled to but little weight,
it deserves consideration how far he is supported by
authorities. It is the maxim of the civil law, that
things takeii from the enemy immediately become
the propeyty of the captors. Qu3 ex hostibus capientur STkTIM capientiumfiunt. Grotius and Vattel are
guilty of great inconsistencies in expounding the rule
in question. Burlamaqui is clear and explicit, that
mere possession immediately vests a title.4 Bynkershoek does not require a sentence of condemnation
a1 Rob. 50. The Santa Cruz.
b Wheaton on Captures, c. 8. a. 14, 15. 17, 18.

V2 Azuni, 236.
d Burlarm..Nat. and Pol. Law, 222.

OF T1E UNITED STATES.

2
127

1816.
and he enumerates " fleets" among-theprfsidia, under- the protcction of which the thing taken may
Ile
be considered as safe ;e so that a bringing into the Astrea.
territorial limits is not indispensable, because the
fleet into"which the captor brings his prize may be
remote from the coasts of his country. It results,
then, that the loss of the spes recuperandiis the true,
foundation of the rule established by jurists: it is
this which consummates the title of the captors, anc4
destroys thejus posliminii of the law of nations; itis the municipal code of England alone which requires a sentence of condemnation to perfect the
title. 2. But, supposing the jus postlimblii still to
continue, it is a right to be asserted by the subjects
of the state from whom the property has been captured. But is it competent for one citizen of the
belligerant state to devest -another of ihe incipient
inchoate title he had acquire i by the first capture ?
The recapture by the enemy might, indeed, enable
the original owner to reclaimhis propirty; if a sentence of conderhnation be necessary, it might affect
the title of a neutral purchaser; but the jus postliminii can have no operation as beiween the first and
second captors.
Harper, contra, was stopped by the court.
Ch. J. An interest acquired by pos- March 4(b
session, devested by the loss of possession from the
very nature of a title acquired in war. The law of
MARSHALL,

. BynA. Q. J. Pub. c. S. p. 29. of Du Ponceau's Translation.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
The
Astrea.

our own country, as to salvage, settles the question,
and the case of the Adventurer is directly in point
and conclusive.
Sentence of the circuit court affirmed.
f February Term, 1814.-This
was the case of a British ship captured by two French frigates, and,
after a part of the cargo 'was taken" out, presented to the libellants in the cause, citizens of the
United- States, (then neutral,)
whose vessel the frigates had before taken and burnt; by whom
sbhe was navigated into a port of
this country, and, pending the suit
instituted by them, war was declared between the United States
and Great Britain. A question
arose, whether this was a case of
salvage? , Mr. J. JomnsoN, by
whom the opinion of the court was
delivered, stated, that " the fact
of the gift was established by a
writing under the hand of the
commander of the squadron of
rigates, in these words, Je donne
au capitaine,&c., in the language
of an unqualified donation, inter
rwos. In this case, the most natural mode of acquiring a definite
idea of the rights'of the parties in the subject matter, will be,
.to follow it thrbugh the successive
chauges of circumstances, by
which the nature and extent of
those rights were affected :-the
capture, the donation, the arrival
in the neutral country, and the

subsequent ptate of war. As between belligerants, capture undoubtedly produces a complete
devesture of property. Nothing
remains to the original proprietor
but a niere scintillajuris,the spfs
recuperandi. The modern and
enlightened practice of, nations
has subjected all such captures to
the scrutiny of judicial tribungls,
Ps the only practical means of furnishing documentary evidence to
accompany vessels that have been
captured, for the purpose of prov.
ing, that the seizure was the act
of sovereign authority, and not of
mere individual outrage. In the
case of a purchase made 'by a
neutral, Great Britain demands
the production of such documentary evidence, issuing from acourt
of competeilt authority, or will
dispossess the purchaser of a ship
.originally British. 1 Rob. 135.
The Fld Oyen. Upon the donation, therefore, whatever right
might, in the abstract, have existed in the captor, the donee
could acquire no more than what
was consistent with his neutral
character to take. He could be
in no better situation than a prize
master, navigating the prize in
pursuance of orders from his corn-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
•mander.
The vessel remsined cast casually on our shores, as the
'liable to British recapturq on the court is 'of opinion it did, legal
whole voyage: and on her arrival provision existed for disposing
4n a neutral territory, the done of it, in such a manner as would
sunk into a mere bailee for the comport with the policy of thoqe
British claimant, with those rights laws. At last, they could but deover the thing in possession which- liver it up to tlle hands of the go.the municipal law (civil and com- vernment, to be xe-shipped by-,in
mon) gives, for care and labour British claimants, or otherwise apbestowed upon it. The question propriated under the sanction of
then recurs, is this a caie of sal- judicial process.
And such was
*age? On- the ndgative of the thd course that they pursued.
proposition it was contended, that Far from attempting any yiolation
it is a case of forfeiture under the of the laws of the country, upon
municipal law, and, therefore, jaot -theirarrival they delivered it up
a case of salvage. as against the to-the custody of the laws, and
United States; that it was an un- . left it to be disposed of under juneutral act to assist the French dicial authority. The case hasno
belligerant in bringing the vessel feature of illegal importation, and
infrap,.a idia, or into any situa- cannot possibly have imputed to
tion where the rights of capture it the violation of municipal law.
would cease; and, tberefore, not As to the question arising on the
a case of salvage as against the interest of the British claimants,
British claimant. Bur, the court it will, at this time, (war having
a sufficient anentertains Ln opinion unfavour a- 9upervened,) lie.
ble to both those objections. This swer, that they ivbo have no rights
could not have been a case within in this court cannot urge a violathe view of the legislature when tion of their rights against the lipassing the non-importation act of bellbnts. But there is still a much
March, 1809. The ship was the more satisfactory answer. To
plank on which the shipwrecked have attempted to carry the vesmariners Teached the shore; but s.1 infra presidia of the enemy,
to have cast into the sea the car- Would, un)ess it could have been
go, the property of a belligerant, excused on the ground of neceswould have been to do him an in- sity, have been an unneutral act.
jury, by taking away the chance But where every exertion is made
.of recovery, subject to which to bring it into a place of safety,
they took it into their possession. in which the original right.of the
Besides, bringing it into the Uni. captured woild be revived, and
ted States does not neccssarily might be asserted, instead of aidpresippose a violation of the nod- ing his enemy, it is doing an act
importation laws. If it came exclusively resulting to the benefit'
-within tlh descripticn of property of the British claimant." A sal
VoL. I.

129
'18I6The
.Astrea.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816,
Matson
V.
Hord.

vage of one half was allowed by
the court, and as to the residue, it
was determined that it must stand
on the same footing with other
property found within the territory at the declaration of war, and
might be claimed upon the termination of war, unless previously

confiscated by the sovereign power. The court, therefore, made
such order respecting it as would
preserve it, subject to the will of
the court, to be disposed of as future circumstances might render
proper.

(LOCAL LAW.)

MATSON V. HORD.
Tbe law of Kentucky requires, in the location of warrants for land,
some general description designating the place where the particular
object is to be found, and a. description of the particular object itself.
The general description must be such as will enable a person intending to locate the adjaeent residuum, and using reasonable care and
diligence, to find the object mentioned in that particular place, ancl
avoid the land already located. If the description will fit another
place better, or equally well, it is defective.
- The Hunter's trace, leading from Bryant's station over to the waters
of Hinkston, on the dividing ridge between the waters of Hinkston
and the waters of Elkhorn," is a defective description, and will iiot
sustain the entry.

APPEAL

from a decree in chancery in the circuit

court of Kentucky.

This cause was argued by

Hughes and Talbot, for the appellants, and Hardin,
for the respondents. It was, principally, a question
of fact arising under the local laws of real property
in Kentucky, for an outline of which the general

reader is referred to the

APPENDIX,

note I., where

