OF THP UNITED STATES.

not feel inclined to enlarge the exceptions to this
general rule, and, therefore, the judgment of the
court below is affirmed.

(INSTANCE COURT.)

The Sanzel.-Pmrtd and BEACH, Claimants.
4Frosecutions under the-Non-Importation Laws are causes of admirtlty
and maritime jurisdiction, and the proceeding may be by libel'in the
admiralty.
Technical nicety is-not rejuirqd iia such proceedings; itis sufficient if
the offence be describeil in the words of the law, and so set forth
that, if the allegation be true, the case must be within the statute.
That the deponent is a seaman on board a gun-boat in a certain -iarhour, and Ziable to be ordered to some otherp lace, and.not to be able
to attend the court at the time of its sitting,is not a sufficient reason
for taking his dep6sition de bene esse, under the judiciary act of i789.
'Where the evidence is so contradictdry and ambiguous as to render a
decision difficult, th.e c&urt will. order further proQf- in a revenue or
instance cause.

from the Circuit Court for the Rhode
Island district. The brig Samuel sailed from St.
Bbartholomews, an islnud belonging 'to.his majesty
the king, of Sweden, in the month of November,
181X, with.a cargo consisting of rum, molasses; and
some other artides, and arriyed in Newport, Rhode
Island, on the 8th of the following December, where
the vessel and cargo were seized and libelled in the
'district court as being forfeited to the Unitad States,
under the act of congress prohibitng the imortaAPPEAL.

VW,.T.

B

1io.
Th9 Smuek

CASkS IN THE SUPRE1TYE COURT

1816. tion of articles the growth, produce, or manufacture
%ofSamuel.
Great Britain or France- their colonies or depen-•
The
dencies. The vessel and cargo were claimed by
John Pierce and George Beach, both citizens of
the United States. The district court condemned
both vessel and cargo. The circuit court condemned
the vessel and the rum, but restored the re4idte of
the cargo. From the sentence of the circuit court
both the libellants and the claimant appealed to this
court.
Dagett, for the ciaimants, made three points:
1st. The proceedings ought to have been at com•mon law, and not in the admiralty.
2d. The information is insufficient.
3d. The testimony was insufficient to warrant a
condemnation.
1. The act of the 1 st of March, 1809, on which this
libel is founded, directs, that the penalies and. forfeitures "shall be sued for, prosecuted, and recovered, with the costs of suit, by action of debt, indictment, or information." The cases under the authority of which this 'proceeding was brought are the
Vengeance,a the Sally,b and the Betsey & Charlotte!
But the act under which the 1.regeance was prosecuted was the sare with the Collection Law of the
2d of March, 1799, section 89, which prescribed *
proceeding in the admiralty; the Sally )vas p'oiecuted under the Slave Trade Act of the 23d "of
March, 1794, which indicates no particular proceeda.,

. all. 297.

a 2 Cranch., 40G.

c 4 Craikh, 4453.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing; whilst the Betsey & Charlotte was prosecuted
under the act of Non-Intercourse with St. Domingo,
.of the 28th of February, 1806, wherein no method
of recovering the penalties was specified. Supposing
this to be a civil cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and that the district court has jurisdiction
of it as such, the proceedings may still be by information, as in the exchequer. Where a statute prescribes a particular -remedy, or particular remedies,
no other can he pursued.--2. The statute is penal,
anid requires strictly accurate proceedings. The libel
alleges, generally, that the cargo was laden on board
in some foreign port. The cargo was stated to have
belonged, in' the allernative or disjunctive, to Pierce
andBeah, or to one Stillman, or some other citizen,
or consigned to one of said parties; and it was Eilleged
that the offerce was conrnitted'with "the knowledge
of the..owner or of the muster."'---3. The testimon*
of -Oldham, a witness in the cause, was taken irrcgularly, and not used in the court below. The vessel and cargo were condemned upon the testimony
of t(atei:s only, against all the oral and documentary
evidence. This testimony is novel; professional
men and artists are credible witnesses intheir own
peculiar science or art; but this is matter of speculative opinion "only,not of known art or certairr science.
The witnesses can never be made responsible foir
perjury. Their evik.nce is contradicted.
The .Attorney General, for the libellants.. L The
d12 Burr.803. Rex v. Robinson.

e 1 Gallison, 05.

The Bolina,

1816.

-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

"

cargo could not have been the produce of St. BarthoLomwvs,
sterile and unproductive island, used as St.
Eustatiusawas
during the war of the American revolution. Itis more likely it was transhipped from a British
than a Spanish colony; ,)nd, therefore. the claim is
clouded with improbability.
The case of the
Odirr may be invoked from, the law of prize to show
how little the faireft documentary evidence is to be
regarded in comparison with the evidentia rei.
Strip off this veil, and the onus is thrown upon the
claimants, from which they cannot relieve themselves
but by the strongest positive testimony. Ai to the
evidence of the tasters, all our knowledge is derived
through the senses. It is not unerring, but weighty;
and the revenue laws rely upon it in collecting the
duties on v ines. The spirit aiad equity of the judiciary act of the 24th of September, 1789, were
pursued in taking the deposition of Oldham; he was
a seaman serving in the flotilla of gun-boats at Newport, and liilbe to be ordered to some other place.
2. It is -novel doctrine that this is a ibel as contradistinguished from an information. It is a libel in the nature of an information; and the process of information
is used in the admiralty as well as in the exchequer.
In alleging the offence, reasonabld certainty only was
necessary: the charge is insufficiently specific to have
put the claimants on their guard; and to require
more would be to prevent the convicti6n of offenders.
The case of the Bolina does not apply to the pre-,

'sent'question.

f 1 Rob. 217.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Daggeti, in. reply.

The deposition of Oldham

1816.

cannot be admitted, unless it be authorized by TbeSamuel.
statute or common law; prize proceedings are pecu-

liar: soldiers and sailors are not excepted by the letter of the Judiciary Act,. and d class of exceptions
cannot be implied. The burthen of proof in fiscal
c'auses is not thrown on the claimah'ts unless by positive law. There can be no difficulty in cqnvicting
offenders, as these proceedings are amendable.9
'MARSHALL,

Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the

court.
On the part of the claimants it is contended, 1st.
That the proceedings ought t6 have been at comm6n
law, and not in the admiralty. 2d. That the inforhilion, if it be one, is insufficient. 3d. That the testimo-.
ny is wholly insufficient to warrant a condemnation.
In arguing the first point, the .counsel for the
claimants endeavoured to take this case out of the
g 1 Ga/lison, 2.. Anonymous. court was, that the bvidence was
The decision cited by.the counq~el almlies only-to the power of the
circuit court to allow amendments
in revenue causes or proceedings
in rem, before appeal to the supreme court. But it may be interesting to the reader to be informed that thesupreme court may
remand the cause to the court below, with instructions to amend
the proceedings.
Thus, in the
cases of the Carolineand the Emily,at February.term, 1813, which
were informations in rem on the
Slave Trade Act of the 22d of
March, 1794, the opinion of the

sufficient to show a breach of the
law, but that the libel was not suf-

ficiently'certain to authorize a de-:
cree of condemnation. The foelowing decree was, therefore, entered: "It is the opinion -of the
court that the libel istoo irnperfectly drawn to found a sentence
of condemnation thereon. The
sentence of the circuit court isd
therefore, reversed, and the cause
remanded to the said circuit court
with directions to admit the libel
to be amended" Videiqfra, The
Edward.

Feb. 12th.

CASES IN THE SUPREMIE COURT

principle laid down in the Vengeance, and in other
TheSaue1. cases resting on the authority of that decision, by
urging a difference of phraseology" in the acts of
congress. In that part of the act on which this prosecution is founded which gives the remedy, it is
enacted; "that all penalties jand forfeitures, arising
under, or incurred by virtue of this act, may be sued
for, prosecuted, and recovered, with costs of suit, by
action of debt, in the name of the United States of
America, or by indictment or information, in any
court having corbpetent jurisdiction to try the same."
Debt" indictment, and information, are said to be
technical terms designating commbn law remedies,
and, consequently, marking out thb courts of common
law as the tribunals in which alone prosecutiois under this act can be sustained. There would be'
much force in this argument, if the term "1information" were exclusively applicable to a proceeding at
eommon law, - But the court is of opinion that it ba.
no such exclusive application. A libel on a seizure.
in its terms and in its essence, is an information.
Consequently, where the cause is 'of admiralty jurisdiction, and the proceeding is by information, the
suit is not withdrawn, by the nature of the remedy,
from the jurisdiction to which it otherwise -belongs.
2d. The second objection made by
the claimants
to these proceedings, is, that though the words of
the att ,aay be satisfied by a libel in-the nature of an
information, yet the same strictness which is required in an infornintion at common law will be necessary to sustain a libel in the nature of ari information in the court of admiralty; and that, testing the
libel by this rule, it is totally insufficient. The court
1816.

.5

Or- THE UNITED STATES.

is not of opinion that all those technical'niceties

1816.

which the astuienes's of 'ancient judges and lawyers TheSamue.

has introduced into criminal proceedings at common
law, and which time and long usage have sanctioned, are to be engrafted into proceedings in the
courts of admiralty. , These niceties, are not already
established, and the principles of justice do not requiie their establishment. It is deemed sufficient
that the offence be described in the Words of the
law, and be so described that if the allegation be true
the case must be within the statute. This libel
does so describe the offence, and is, therefore, deemed sufficient.
3d. The third and .material inquify respects the
evidence. Is. this cargo of British origin?
In the examination of this question, the first point
to be decided is the admissibility of the deposition of
Thomas Gidham. That deposition is found in the
record of the circuit court, with a certificate annexed
to it, in these words "N. B. The deposition of
Thomas Olhari was filed after the trial of'the case,
by order of the court." Some of the judges are
of opinion that this certificate of the clbrk is to bedisregarded, and that the deposition, being inserted
in the record,,must be considered as a part of it, and
must be supposed to have formed a part of the evidence when the- decree was made : but the majority
of the court is of a different opinion. The certificate
of the clerk to the deposition is thought of equal validity as if forming, a part of his general certificate.
It shows that this depositioii formed no part of the
cause in the circuit court, and is, therefore, liable to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

every exception which could be made to it, if it was
TnotSamuel.
found in the record, and was now offered for
The
the first time to this court. On inspection, it appears
to be a deposition taken before a single, magistrate.
not on oider of court on a conimission, with notice
to the attorney of the claimant, who did not attend.
It must be sustained by the act of congress, or it is
inadmissible. The reason assigned for taking it is,
"that the deponent is a seaman on board a guri-boat
of the United States, in-the harbour of Newport, and
liable to be ordered to some other place, and not to
be able to attend the court at the time of its sitting."
The 30th section of the Judiciary Act directs, that
"the mode of proof by oral testimony, and, the examination of witnesses in open court, shall be the same
in all the courts of the United States." The act
then-proceeds to enumerate cases in which deposiions ma:y be taken de bone esse. The liability of the
witness to be ordered out of the reach of' the. court
is not one of th6 causes deemed sufficient by the law
for taking a deposition de bene esse. In such case there
would seem to be a propriety in applying to the
court for its aid. But, supposing this objection not
to be so fatal as some of the judges think it, still the
deposition is taken de bene esse, not in chief; and a
deposition so taken can be read only when the witness himself is unattainable. It does not appear ia
this case that the witness was not within the reach
of the court, and might not have given his testimony in. open court, as is required by law. Had this
deposition been- offered in codrt, before, or at the
time of the trial, and used without objection, the in1813

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ierebce that the requisites of the law were complied 1816.
with, or waived, might have been justifiably drawn. a
court -after his
But the party 'is not necessarily in
cause isdeciddd, and. is not bound to know the fact
that this deposition was ordered to be filed. For
these reasons it is the opinion of a majority of the
court, that the deposition of Thomas Oldham ought
not to be considered as forming any part of the testimony in this cause.
The deposition of Oldham being excluded, the
'rosecution rests chiefly on the d6po itions of Benjamin Fry, and William S. Allen: These winesses
are noth experienced dealers in rum; have both
tasi i and examined .the run of this cargo, and are
bot- bf the opinion that it is of- British origin. In.
the Lninion of all the judges, this testimony is entitled
to.g. -eat respect. The witnesses say that there is a
clear difference between the flavour of rum of the
British and the Spanish islands, though they do not
attempt to describe that difference; and that their
opinion is positive that this is British rum.
To weaken the force of this testimony, the claimants have produced the depositions of several witnesses, also dealers in rum,3vho declare, that the difference in the flavour of the best -Spanish rum, and
that of the British islands, is inconsiderable, and that
they cannot distinguish the one from the other; that
they believe the best judges find great difficulty, ii
making the discrimination. This testimony fould,
perhaps,-have been entitled to more influence, had
the persons giving it tasted the rum imported in the
Samue, and declared themselves incapable of decidVor..

C

EME COURT
G'ASES IN THE SURD

ing on its origin: for, although in some cases the
difference may be nearly imperceptible, in others it
The Samnuel.
may be considerable. The testimony, however,
on which the claimants most rely is .found inthe deposition of Samuel Marshall and of Andrew
Furntrad. Samuel Marshall, the brother of John
and Joseph Marshall, merchants of St. Bartholomews, from whom the rum in question was purchased, deposes, that he has lived with them for two
years, and had, at the time of giving his deposition.
they being absent from the island, the care of their
business. That the rum and molasses constituting
the cargo of the Samuel were imported into St.
Baftholomews from La Guira, in vessels which he
names, and are of the growth and produce of that
place. Andrew Furntrad is the collector of the
port of Gustavia in St. Bartholomews, and deposes,
that the qutantity of rum and molasses which were
laden on' board the Samuel, and which cleared out
regularly for New London, were regularly imported
fiom La: Guira in two vessels, which he names,
whose masters he also names. They are the same
,that are mentioned by Samuel Marshall.
On this conflicting testimony much contrariety of
opinion has taken place. The omission of the claimants to furnish other testimony supposed to have been
ism.

-within their reach, and of which the necessity would

seem to have been suggested by the nature of the
prosecution, impairs, in the opinion of several of the
judges, the weight to which their positive testimony
might otherwise be entitled. The court finds itq
very difficult to form an opinion satisfactory td it--

OF THE UNITED STATES.

self. So situated, and under the peculiar circum-

1816.

i~tances attending Oldham's deposition, the majority
of the court is of opinion, that the cause be continued
to the next term for farther proof, which each party
ig at liburtf'to produce.

Tihe S Lm ucl.

Fartier proof ordered:"
h Reveru(e causes are, in their
nature, causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction. In Great
Britain all appeals from the vicca4niralty cotrts in those causes
are. within the jurisdiction of

the high cout of admiralty, and
-not of the privy council, wlich is
the appellhto tribunal in other
-plantation causes. This point was
determined so long ago as the
year 1754, in the iase of the
Vrouw Dorothea. aecided before
t p high court of delegates, which
was an appeal from the vice-admirialty judge'of S6uth Carol.na to
the high court of admiralty, and
*ence to the delegates.
The
appellate jurisdiction was contested upon the ground that prosecutions for the breach of the naviga*ionand other revenue laws were

not, in their nature, causes civil
and maritime, and under the ordinary jurisdiction of'the court of
admniralty, but that it was a jurisdiction specially given to-the viceadmiralty courts by stat. 7'& 8
Win. III. ch. 22. s. 6., which did
not take any notice of we appellate jurisdiction of the high court
of admiralty in such cases, The'
)bjection, however, was overruled
by the delegates, and the determination has since received the
unapimous concurrence of all the
common law judges, on a reference to them from the privy council. The proceeding.'in this casc
is called "a libel of informtition;1"
sh pning, that ibel and inforM arw2.
in the admiralty are synonymous
terms. 2 Rob. 245. The Fabius.

