CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181b.
The
Aurora.
(INSTANCE COURT.)

The J.Urora.-VALDEN BT

AL.

Claimants.

A hypothecation of the ship by the master is invalid, unless it is shown
by the creditor, that the advances -were necessary to effectuate the
objects of the voyage, or the safety of the ship; and the supplies
could not be procured upon the owner's credit, or with his funds, at
the place.
A bottomry bond given to pay off a former bond, must stand or fali
S'vith the first hypothecation, and the subsequent lenders can only
claim upon the same ground with the preceding, of whom they are
virtually the assignees.
APPEAL from the circuit dourt for the district of
Pennsylvania. The brig Aurora, commanded by
captain Owen F. Smith, and owned by the-claimants,
sailed in July, 1809, from New-York, on a trading
voyage to the Brazils, and from thence to the South
Sea islands, for The purpose of procuring a cargo for
the market of Canton or Manilla; with liberty, after
completing this adventure, to continue in this trade,
or engage .in that between Canton and the northwest coast of America. The brig.. duly arrived at
Rio Janeiro, where the principal part of her outward
cargo was sold, and from thence proceeded to Port,
Jackson, in New Holland. At this port, the brig
utiderweit considerable repairs;, on account of
which, advances and supplies were furnished by
Messrs. Lord& Williams, who were merchants there.
The original objects of the voYiage seem here to have

OF TIE UNITED STATES.

beeh lost sight of, and the brig was chartered by the 1816.
master, to Messrs. Lord & Williams, for.a voyage \.'p..*,
The
of discovery, and was actually retained in their ser- Aurora.
vice for about a year, under this engagement. At
the end of this time the brig had rettqined to Port
.Jackson, and captain Smith was here put in gaol, by
some persons whose names are unknown, for debts
contracted, as it was asserted or supposed, on account of the vessel, and was relieved-from imprisonment by Messrs. Lcrd & Williams.
About this

time, viz. in July, 1811, the brig was again chartered
to Messrs. Lord & Williams, for a voyage from Port
Jackson to Calcutta., and back to Port Jackson; and
a bottomry, bond was executed for the same voyage
by captain Smith, in favour of Messrs. Lord &.Williams, for the sum of 1,482. 6s. Id., and interest at
nine per cent.: being the amount, as the bond expresses it, of "charges incurred for necessaries and
stores, found and provided by Messrs. Lord & Williams, of, &c., at various times and. places, for the use
of the said brig." Tle vessel duly proceeded to
Caimitta, and landed her cargo there; but being
prevented, as it was alleged, by the British government in COlcutta, from returning to Port Jackson, the
voyage was bi'oken up. In-December, 1811, captain
Smith entered into a contract with the libellants,
Messrs. Chamberlain & Co., at Calcutta, by which
he engaged to charter the brig to them, to carry a
cargo on their account to Philadelphia, for the -gross
freight of 12,000 8icca rupees, to be paid to him in
advance in Calcutta; and, also, to _give the charterers the appointment of the master for the voyao.'e.
VOL. T.

N

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

He farther agreed, in consideration of the libellanti
Thepaying the bottomry bond of Messrs. Lord & WilThe
Auro.
liams, and advancing any sums necessary for the repairs and supplies of the ship, to execute a bottomry
bond to them for the same voyage, for the principal
sum thus paid and expended, and 20 per cent. interest. In pursuance of this agreement, n the 17th of
December, a certain captain George Lee, with the
assent of Smith, was appointed by the libellants to
superintend the repairs, equipments, and loading of
the bi'ig, and afterwards sailed as master on the voyage. A bottomry bond, for 18,000 sicca rupees, was
formally executed by captain Smith on the 23d, and
a charter party,on the 26th December. In the latter
part of January, 1812, captain Smith resigned his
Iominal command of the ship to captain Lee, and
delivered to him the ship's papers, and lettbrs for the
owners. The ship duty sailed on the voyage, and
arrivcd dt Philadelphia, and there safely delivered
her cargo. The advance freight was paid to captain
Smith, according to the contract, and he remained
behind at Calcutta, under the pretence, that, with
this advance freight, it wag his intention to prosecute
the plan of his original voyage, and to endeavour to
repair the losses sustained.by his former conduct.
It also appeared in evidence, that captain Smith was,
during the whole voyage, much addicted to intoxication, both. at sea and 6n shore- and Messrs. Lord
& Williains, and the libellants, seem to have been
fully apprized of his incapacity to manage the concerns of the voyage. The owners refused t6. pay
the bottomry 'bond executed at Calcutta, and the
1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

present libel was brought to enforce it. The district
'court, af the hearing, decreed the full amount of the
principal and interest, of the bond, deducting-'the
12,000 sicca rupees advanced at Calcutta. Upon
an appeal; tb circuit court reversed this decree, and
upon the merits'dismissed the libel,
Haiper, for the dppellantg and libellants. 1. As
to the first hypothecation at Port Jackson: a bottomry bond- may be taken after debts, are incurred
iiecessarily, in order to secure the person advancing
the moneys. 2. Th6 hypothecation at Calcutta
was to dischaige the first loan, and for iurther re-pairs. Th&master was not, in effect, changed before the second bond was executed. But, supp6se
*he was, how isthat-to affect the first hypothecation?
It attached until discharged by the new loan. The
instrument passes by delivery, and the naw lenders
becaine invested with all, the rights'of the former
holders of the bond. The present holders ought,
at least, to receive so much of their money. All that
lenders upon b6ttomry are bound to do, is, to see
that a necessity actually exists at the time. How
came the ship enabled to prosecute her voyage and earn freight ? By the loan.. The payment of the
freight in advance to the master, subsequently, cobid
not, by relation back, affect the lien acquired by a
previous loan.
Sergeant, for the respondents and claimants. The
power of a master to hypothecate the vessel, though
necessary for the purposes of dommerce, would.

1816.
The

Auora.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
%.#Te%
The

Au'rora.

without limitations, be ruinous to the owner, and de.
structive of the purposes it was intended to subserve.

It is conferred by no express delegation, but is the
offspring of necessity.
This necessity must be
shown, to warrant the master's conduct. The owner's interest is the object of the power; the master
has no authority to bind the owner or his property,
contrary to his orders and his interest. 1. The
master can hypothecate only in case of clear
necessity, which must be clearly shown.a It is incumbent upon the;party who claims to have a right
.under the bond,dto show this necessity. A contrary
dottrine would make the bond, which is nothing
unless thb master has the power, evidence of that
power. To allow it the force even of primafacie
evidence, would be to invert the law; for, then, instead of saying, that the state of necessity imust be
clearly shown, we should be obliged to say, the absence of- necessity must be shown. 2. The master
can hypothecate only when the hypothecation is the
condition of the loan. The money bught to be advanced solely on the faith of the bond, and the hypothecation cannot he taken after .the advances are
made, without stipulating for. such security. If the
loan has been once madp on pe.ooal credit, for the
use, of the ship, it cannot .be afteiwards secured by
hypothecation.; for there is, then,, no existing neces.
sityH.. A menace against the master, pr the power.
a 2 .Marshallon Inswrance,(Condy's edit.) '741, d.'Rossv. TheActfive. Bee's .Adm. Rep. 159. Putnam v. The Polly. 2 ,Marshall,741,
c. The Lavinia.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of attaching, the ship, by the creditor, will not legalize §uch a contract.' If the master can obtain
funds by any other means, he is not authorized to hypothecate. The master can hypothecate only for
the interest of the owner, and for the purpose of
prosecuting the voyage.c This is a case which requires the application of the strictest principles of
law; and, at the same time, illustrates the wisdom
and policy of those principles, as essential to the
security of trade. The hypothecation at Calcutta,
so far as it is founded upon that at Port Jackson, was
given, in part at least, for a pre-existing debt; and
it is not for us to separate what the obligees have
confounded and mixed together. As to the expendituiis at.. Calcutta, the freight received o,)ght to
have bppn applied to pay them.
Haipqr,in reply. The principles aqvanced on
the other side are too narrow to subserve the interests of trade; and the authorities cited do not warSrant.them. Any condition of a ship, disabling her
from performirig her usual service to the .owner, if
.money cannot be raised in any other way to refit her,
,creates such a nec.essity as will justify a hypothecation by the master. Do not the claims of material
men, of tradesmen who have furnished supplies upon
the credit of the ship, of merchants who. have advanced moneys for her repair, and whomay all prob 2 ' farshall, 741, a. Liebart v. Emperor.
nyngham. Bee's Adm. Rep. 341.
c 2 Mlfarshall, 741, c. Ross v. Active.

lb. Rucker v. Co-

Parke on Ins. 413.

1816.
The

Aurora.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
Te
The

Aurora.

Feb. 99th.

6eed in rem, or by ptocess of attachment, imply such
a condition of the ship? By the universal law of the
civilized world, the master is the agent of the owner, unless notice bf his special instructions -to 'the
party contracting with him, can be proved. The
lenders in this case had no such notice.
STORY, J., delivered the opinion of the court,'and,
after stating the facts; pro,eeded as follows :
Such are the material facts of the -case, and the
qi'estion to be decided is, whether, under all the circumstances, ihe bottomry bond executed at Calcutta
constitutes a valid lien upon the ship.
The law in respect to maritime hypothecations is,
in general, well settled. The master of the ship'is
the confidential servaht or agent of the owners; and
they are bound to the performance of all lawful contracts made by him, relative to the usual employmeni
of the'ship, and the repairs and other necessaries
furnished for her use. This rule is established ad'
well upon the impliedassent of the owners, as with
a view to the convenience of the commercial world.
As, therefore, the master may contract for repairs and
supplies, and thereby; indirectly, bind the owners to
the value of the ship and freight, so, it is held that
he may, for the like purposes, expressly-pledge and
hypothecate the ship and freight, and"thereby create
a direct lien on the same, for the security of the
creditor. But the authority of' the master is liiited
to objects connected with the voyage-, and,- if he
transcend the prescribed limits, his acts*become, in
legal contemplation, .merenullities. Hence, to make

OF THE UNITED STATES.

a bottomry bond executed by the master a valid hypothecation of the ship, it must be shown by the
creditor that the master acted within the scope of his

authority; or, in other words, it must be shown that
the advances were made tor repairs and supplies necessary for effectuating the objects of the voyage,
or the safety and'security of the ship; and no pre-sumption should arise, that such repairs and.supplies
could be prpcured. upon any reasonable terms, with
the credit.of the olfner, independent of such hypothecation. If,-therefore, the master have sufficient
lhnds of the owner, within his control, or can procure them upon the general credit of the owner, he
is not at liberty to subject the ship to the expensive
and disadvantageous lien of an hypothecatory instrument.
Let us now, with these principles in view, proceed
to the cc,nsideration of. the validity of the Pottomry
bond executed at Port Jackson, which enters so materially into the subsequent one executed at Calcutta.
This bond purports, on its face, to have been given
for advances, or supplies, furnished for the ship's
use, not immediately before its -date, but at'various
times and places; and, from the oihcr evidence in
the case, it distinctly appears that the greater part
was furnished before and during the voyage of discovery in which she was. engaged, under the contract with Messrs. Lord & Williams, and for their
immediate benefit. Not the slightest account is given
of the earnings of the ship during this long voyage
of a year, nor of the terms or stipulations of the
charter. This silence would be wholly unaccounta-

103
1816.
The
Aurora.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

ble if it were not in proof, that captain Smith was
guilty of the most shameful misconduct, and either
The
Aurora. fraudulently sacrificed, or grossly neglected, the interests of his owner.
The advances made by Messrs. Lord & Williams do not appear- to have been originally made
upon a stipulation for an hypothecation of the ship.
On the contrary, there is the strongest reason to believe that they were originally made upon the general credit of the owner, oi master, -or both. If
there had been a stipulation for an hypothecation, it
musjt have been carried into 'effect by the parties on
the next ensuing voyage; and, as this was not done,
there arises an almost irresistible presumption, that
Messrs. Lord & Williams looked for their reimbursements out of the freight of the voyage in
which the ship was then engaged by them. If, indeed, there had been a stipulation, originally, for an
hypothecation, it must be deemed, in point of law,
to hav6 been waived by the omission to have had it
attached to the first voyage then next to be prosecuted; and the party who thus waives his right cannot
be permitted, at a subsequent time, and under a
change of circumstances, to reinstate himself inhis
former condition to the injury of the owner. It is
said that tihe ship might-have been arrested for these
advances; and that, in point of fact, the captain was
put -in jail on account of debts contracted for the
ship, and was relieved from imprisonment by Messrs.
Lord & Williams. That captain Srmith was imprisoned on account of some debts appears in the
evidence, but it is by no means -clear tha. these

OF THE UNITED STATES;

ji o0

Jebts were contracted for the -use of the ship. The" 1818.
presuruption is repelled by the consideration that
The
.the necessaries and supplies are expressly stated in Aurora.
the bond to have been furnishcd by Messrs. Lord
& Williams; and the only other creditors who are
alleged to have furnished stores, are admitted not
to have instituted, any suits. It is undoubtedly true,
that material men, and others, who furnish supplies
to a foreign ship, have a lien on the ship, and may
proceed in the admiralty to enforce'that right. And
it must be admitted that, in such a .case, a bonafide
crelitor, who advances his money to 'relieve the ship
from an actual arrest on account of such debts, may
stipulate for, a bottoniry interest, and the necessity
of the occasion will justify the master in giving it,
it he have no other sufficient funds, or credit, to redeem the ship from such arrest. 1But it would be
tpo much to hold, as was conteided for by the counsel for the appellants, that a mere threat to arrest
the ship, for a pre-existing debt, would be a sufficient
necessity to justify the master in giving a bottomry
interest, since it might be an idle threat, which the
creditor-might never enforce; and-until enforced .the
peril would not act upon the ship itself 'And even
supposing a just debt might, in such. a case, be a
valid consideration to sustain a bottomry interest in
favour .of a Iird person, such an effect never could
be attributed to a debt manifestly founded in fraud
or injustice. Nor does it by any mqans follow, because a debt sought to be enforced by an arrest of
the ship, might uphold an hypothecation in favour of
a third person, that a general creditor would be enVol. I.

0

IOU0(
1816.
The
Aurora.

CASES IN THE SUP REME COURT

titled to acquire a like interest. It would seer*
against the poicy of the law to permit a party, ir
this nanner, to obtain advantages fiom his contract
for which he had not originally stipulated. Itwould
hold out temptations to fraud and imposition, and
enable creditors to practise gross oppressions, against
which even the vigilance 'and good faith of an intelligent master might not always be a sufficient safeguard in a foreign country.
These are not the only difficulties which press
upon the claim of Messrs. Lord & Williams. The
terms of the chartcr-party, entered into by them on
the voyage to Calcutta, as well as on the voyage of
discovery, are nowfiere explained. It was certainly their duty, in the first instance, to apply the freight
in their hands, earned in thes'e voyages, to the discharge of the debt due to them for-'advances.
What was the amount of this freight, and what was
the manner in which it was to b-e paid, and how, in
fact, it was paid or appropriated, are inquiries which
have never been answered. 'These inquiries are at
all times, and in all cases, important, but are emphatically so in a case where there is but too mych reason to suspect that the interests of the oweir were
wilfully abandoned by the fraud or the folly of the
master.
It is incumbent upon the creditor who claims an
hypothecation, tb prove the actual existence of the
necessity of those things which give Iise to his demand; and if,
fron i his own showing, or otherwise,
it appears that he has had funds of the owners in his
possession which might have been applied to the de-

I'M THE'UNITED 'STATES.

anand, and he h-a. neglected or refused so to do, he
must'fail in his claim. *So, if various demands are
mixed up in his bond, some of which would sustain
an hypothecation and some not, it is his duty so to
exhibit them to' the court that they may be separately weighed'and:considered. And it would be perilous
indeed, if a court were called upon to grope its way
hrough the darkness and intricacies of'a long accofint. without a guide, and decide upon the interest§
of' the ship' owne'r y o~sciirc and dbubtful' lights
which here and there might cross ibe -path.
Upon thd whole,'it is the opinion cf the court, thatthe bdttomry -bond-of Messrs. Lord & Williams
cannot be sustained as a valid hypothecation uponi
tbe probfs now befor. the -court. It appears to ave
Nen, founded, tQo. a veryplIrge amount, ppon advances
made by Messrs. Lok1 & Williams, in previots voyages; and ifsome portion' of the debt might have
been immediately applicable to the neiessitieq of the
ship at the time of the voyage to Calcutta, 'that pbrtion is not distinctly -sh6wn,and no reason as yet ap.pears why the freight in their hands, if the transac.
tioiis"were bUna fide, might not have been applied irx
"discharge of these necessities.
As the bottomry bond of Messrs.. Lord & Williams has rPot been esiablishd, the subseqnentbot,
tomry bond executed- atCalcutta., so far as it includes
and covers the sum due on the first bond, cannot be
sustained. The plaintiffs, in this "respect, can claim
only as the virtual assignees of Messrs, LQrd &
Williams; with the assent of the master, and 4he s.n.e
defects which infected thd original title pass along

1816.
Auror.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
'

The
Ourora.

with the muniments of that title under the assign
ment.

And this observation leads to the consideration of
the validity of the bottomry bond executed at Calcutta, as to the sum remaining, after deducting the
amount of the first -bond. Notwithstanding some
obscurity in the testimony, it must be taken as true,
from the express acknowledgments of captain
Smith, that the whole sum expended in repairs and
supplies of the ship in Calcutta, including the sum
of ten thousand seven hundred and -thirteen sicca
rupees, paid on account of the first bottomry bond,
did not exceed the sum of eighteen thousand sicca
rupees. It follows, therefore, that a sum, a little
more than six thousand rupees, was expended in
these supplies and repairs.
By their charter-party
with the master, the plaintiffs agreed to pay an ad.
vance freight to captain Smith of twelve thousand
sicca rupees for the voyage to Philadelphia. There
was, therefore, within their own knowledge, an ample
fund provided for all the repairs and supplies necessary fQr the voyage; and this fund absolutely 1,ithin their own control, if they were disposed to act for
the interest of the owners, instead of lending their
aid still farther to involve thein il difficulty and .distress. There is, therefore, but too much reason to
believe, that the plaintiffs were not unwilling to derive undue advantages from the intemperince and
negligence of the master, whatever might be the
sacrifices brought upon the owners. The plaintiffs
expressly stipulated, in their charter-party, for the
'right to appoint a new master for the voyage, ob.

OF 'IHE UNITED STATES.

0
im9

viously fiom -a total want'of confldence-in captain i16.,
Smith. They would not everi suffer the. repairs and "* Toe-'
loading of the, ship to be maide,6excepi atider a maS- Aurora.
ter specially'in their own confidence They -etair
ed captain Smith'n the nominal command of the
ship until all tbeif own purposes were answered, and
'then discarded him with as little ceremony.as any
indifferent personage. , Yet, at the very moment
that they were withdrawing their whole confidence
from him, te, advanced the whole freight of the
voyage, to be applied at his own pleasure to any
objects disconnected with the voyage. They could
not be ignorant that thp-master was not about tareturn to the home of the owner, and that the' ship
wAs ; and the argument which imputes to them a
collusive combination *ith the master,-is certainly
not without considerable weight. At all events,
here funds are shown to exist sufficien& to meet the
necessities of the ship, and; consequently, a' resorte
to the extraordinary expedient of an hypcothecation.
was not justifiMd in point 6f law.
On the wholei it is the opinion of the court, that'
the decree of'the i-ircuit court ought'to be affirmed,
with costs.
Decree affirmed.
d It is stated by Blackstone, in
the Commentarie*, vol. 2. p. 457.,
that the contracts of bottomry
and respondentia, took their rise
from the practice of allowing the
master to hypothecate the ship in
a fqreign country, in order to
raiqe money to refit. This opi-

nion is doubted by Mr. .Abbo, in
his Law of Shipping, pdrt 2. c.J.
s. 15. p. 163. (Story's ed.) who'
remarks, that there is no mention
in the text of the civil law, of this
contract entered into by the master of the ship in that character.
This remark does not appeAr to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

have been made with the usua I
of that excellent writer
for, in the law, De exercitoria ac.tfjone in the Pandects, the master

'necessariuni dictm refectioni, vel
cause.
Quarto, ut' in eo loco
The
comparari possint res illm necesAurora,
sarin, ubi mutuum fuit factum."
is authorized to take-up money He adds, that if the master deupon the credit of the ship when ceive the lender, either in the renecessary; and Bynkershoek at-- pairs or the price of the articles
tributes the origin of maritime purchased, the owner- is responsihypothecation to the Roman law, ble, and also for money borrowed
and states, that it was originally to repay other moneys advanced
confined to hypothecation by the to- re'fit the ship; nor is he dismaster, from necedsity, in foreign charged even if the master conparts, and by degrees camed to be verts the money to his own use.
entered into by the owners of the .Nfotabiliade ,Norv. et JNaul. note
ship and cargo for more general 23, 24. The Consolato del Mrare
purpLces. Q. J. Priv.1. 3. c. 15., recognises the power of the masDe Contractu qui dicitur, Bode- ter to bind the owners in this
-srery. The same great jurist also manner, excepting in cases *of
states in his Q. J. Pub. c. 19. p. fraud and misconduct, c. 245.
151., of D Poncbau's transla- By the ancientlaw of France, the
tion, that the lender is entitled to master might hypothecate the
the benefit of his security, even ship.when abroad, with the conif the moneys advanced be mis- sent of the mate and pilot, who
applied by the master, and not were required to certify upon the
laid'out in the refitting the ship. ship's journal the necessity of the
This, however, must be under- loan, and its application. Ordonstood of a bona fide case, where nance de la ,Ma'ne, liv. 2. tit. 1.
there is no fraud on- the part of du Capitaine, art. 19.
Usage
the lender, nor collusion between also required that a proces verbal
him and tte master. Roccus lays of the transaction should be codewn, the following rules on this pied from the journal, and signed
subjeot: 1VVerum adverte, quia by the parties, whose consent was
quatuor requiruntur, ut dominus necessary. But Valin informs us
navis te'neatur' ad restitutionem that these formalities were merepeeunite mutituate.. Primum. ly required in order to disculpate
ut cusa'sit veri, et in illam the master; that they were not of
vausam pepunia sit versa, licet the essence of the contract, and
precise creditor non teneatur ha- the omission of them did not inhere curam, ut in illam causam validate the security of the lender,
pecunia expendatur.
Secundo, who was not obliged to prove that
quod mutuans sciat magistrum ad the sums advanced had been Zpid esse propositum. Tertio, ut propriated to the use of the ves'non plus mutuetur, quarn sit nlavi sel ; and he cites a sentence of
Saccuracy

OF THE UNITED STATES.
the tribunal at Marseilles, of the
9th of August, 1748, in support
of his exposition, which decision
(he states) is founded upod the
first law, s. 9. Dig. de exercitoria
actione. He remarks that Loccenius, de Jure JMaritimo, 1. 3. c.
8. n. 7. and 8., Vinnius in Peckijim, fol. 183. n. A., and Casaregis, Disc 71. n. 15. 33. and 34.,
bold, that the lender should prove
the necessity of'the loan in order
to prevent ship owners from being
the victims of the frauds and malversations of masters. But Valin
alleges that this rule had been rejected by the usage of trade as too
refined and subtle; and that to
enable the lender to enforce his
claim, it is sufficient to show that
be bad acted with good faith;
that is to say, that there is no
proof or sufficient presumption of
collusion between him and the
master. Valin sur I' Ordonnance,
ton. 1. p. 4 4 2 . See also Pothier,
de Pret a la Grosse, n. 52. In
the new Commercial Code of
Prance, the farther precaution is

added of requiring that the master should obtain the consent of a
tribunal of commerce, or justice
of the peace, if the loan be made
in France; if abroad, by the
French consul, or if there be no
consul, by the magistrate of the
place. Code de Commerce, liv. 2.
tit. 4. Dtu Capitaine, art. 934.
This amendment to the ancient
law was made upon the suggestion
of the Tribunal and Chamber of
Commerce of Caen, who remarked, in their observations upon the
original plan of the Code, that it
but too often huapenea that ship
masters, in the course of their
voyage, put into port upon the
most frivolous pretexts, and incurred eypenses ruinous to the
owners: which required the interposition of judicial authorities,.
who would certainly authorize no
other expenses than those really
urgent and necessary to the prosecution of the voyage. Esprif
du Code de Commerce, par J. G.
Locre, tom. 3. p. 112..

1816.~
The
Aurora.

