61' THI UNITED STATZ$.
,ay berecovered, and that the
value of merchandise varies so
much at different times, and under iffterent circumstances,*as to
q~der it frequently unjust tocom-

.1
&
bond which had bedn forfejtel for
not transferring stock at a given
day, according to his agreement Danforths
Lessee
the English cout~t of chancery
decreed him to transfer the 'stock
V.

ptl a specific performance. Bdt
w-here the question was, upon
w4at tenms a party should be relieyed agpinst the penalty- of a

in specie, and to' accovnt for all
dividends accrued since lie ought
to have transferred it. 2 Vemn.
394. 1 Oro. ParZ. Gas. 19$'

,o

rquetlyunjst
ocodcred hm t trnsfr te

sock

(LOCAL LAW.)
DAN ORTH'S

THoiMI"'.
LESSEE .P.

'The net of assembly of North Carolina, passed Tetween the.year 178$
and 1789, avoids-all entries, surveys, and grants.of lands'iet apart
for the Cherokee Indfans, artd no title can be thereby acquired to
tuph lands.
The 'oundaries of the reservation have been altered by successive
treaties with the Indians, but itseems that the mere extinguishment
of their title did iot subject the land to appropriations, unless .e
pressly authorized by the legislature.

to the circuit court for the district of East
•Tennessee.. This cause, depending mainly dn the
same principles with the preceding case of. Presto
v. Browder," was argued by Key for. the plaintiff,
and by Jones for the defendant in error. -The .fact
ge fully stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

t Ante, p. 115-

Thomas.

-456

CAStS IN

sIESUPREME COURT

ToDD, J., delivered the opiniofi of the court az
follows:
.
This was an action of ejectment brought by thq

1816.
Danforth

Lesseb

plaintiff in error against the defendant in eli'or. On
ThQm,
Mrch 8th. the trial of the'cause in the circuit coifrt, it appea-.

ed from evidence that the land in contoviers- 'Was
situate in the tract of country lyin south of Holston and French broad river, and between- the
rivers Tennessee and Big Pigeon, the Indian tittevto
%vhich'asextinauished- by 'he treaty 6f Holst,
The plaintiff claimed" by Virtue of a' grant, is-sueit
by the state*of North Carolina, beaing date thii
26th of December, 1791. The .defendant claim.
Vnder a grant from the state of Tennessee, bearing
date the 2d of January, 1809. The defendant, by
his eounsel, obJ66tdd to the grant under w.i'h the
Plaintif claiWmd title being admitted in eyidence, on
'the ground that it was for land which the laws of
North Carolina ha'd prohibited from being entered,
surveyed, or granted. The court sustained -& oh.
*jection, and prohibited the grant from going in eyid6ie-to the jury; whereupon a verdict and judgment was r'endered in favour of the-defendant. A
ill or exceptions was taken to the. opinion",of the
ccourt, and the cause was brought up to 4his cou'tby
-

ywrit oferror.

tb

The correctness of the opinion of the circuit court
depefids on the sound construction of the act of the
general aisembly Of the state "of North Carolina,
passed in 1183, c. 2. s. 5 and 6, whereby the lands,
jvithih certain limits'therein 'designat'ed, (including
the lands in controv'ersy) are reseryed for the Che-

F .THE UNITED $TATE1

161

yokee Indians, and the citizens prohibited from enter- 1816.
ing. and suryeying lands within those liniits. It is
Danforth't;
contended, on the part of the plaintiff, that this act Lessee
cannot be construed, nor did the legislature mean to Tbo*iai.
give the Indians a right of property in ttie soil, but
2iierely the use and qajoyment of it. That the sue-.
ceeding legislatures, by the acts of 1784, 1786, and
1789, have changed this reservation for the use of
the Indians, and given unlimited access, for tne purposes of making entries and surveys "to all lands
not before specially located,". and io." all vacant
lands" within the limits of the.state. Consequently,
locations could be made, and grants issued to perfect
titles of lands..lying within the limits of the Indian
reservation.
Whether.the legislature had the power, or intendvd to give the Indians a rigbt of property in the soil,
-or merely the use "andenjoynment of it, need not be inquired into, nor decided,-by this court; for it is perfectly clear, that the 5th section of the act of 1783,
c; 2., prohibits .all persona from .making entries or
surveys for any lands within the bounds set apart
for-the Cherokee Indians, and declares all such entries and grants thereupon, if any should be made,
utterly void; They had the power, and have declared, unequivocally, an intention, to prohibit entries
from being made within those reservations. The
several acts of 1784, 1786, and 1789, although they
contain general expressions, which, if taken singly,
might seem to sanction entries and surveys for " all
lands not ibefore specially located," or to " all vacant lands ;" yet, when taken together, these gene-.

158
1816.

CASES IN THE SUPREM4E COURT

ral expressions must be controlled by the restrictions

~" and prohibitions as to the reservations for the Indian
)Danforth's
"

Lessee

Toma.

tribes. The reasoning used in tle case of Preston
v. Browder, applies with equal, if not greater, propriety, to this case. And, although at different periods different sections of these reservations have
been subjected to appropriation by entries and surveys, it has been in consequence of the several treaties with the Indians, by which the boundaries of the
reservations have been altered, arid the Indian claim
extinguished; but it is believed, that the mere extizguishment of the Indian title did not subject the
land to appropriation, until an act of the legislature
authorized or permitted it. Whatever doubts this
court might entertain on this subject, were they now
construing these laws upon the first impression, that
doubt would be removed on a view of the case of
Avery v. Strother, in the Reports in Conference, p.
431., decided by-the judges of the supreme court-of
North Carolina. This is a decision directly in point,
made by the supreme court of the state, construing
the laws brought into the view of this court, and is
decisive of this case. And , as this court have been
uniformly disposed to pay great respect to .he decisions of the state courts respecting titles to real es.
tate, this decision has iHs full influence on the present
question; and, therefore, the judgment of' the circuit
rourt is unanimously affirmed with costs.

Judgment affirmed.

