208.

0CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
The
It. Joze I,diane-

tI.IZE.)

7he St. Joze Indian.-LIzAuR, Clahrivnt.
.4oois were

shipped by D. B. & Co. of Liverpool, on board a neutral
ship bound to Rio de Janeiro, which ws captured and brought into
the United States for adjudication.
The invoice was hbaded,
"consigned to Messrs. D. B. & F., sy order and for accoint of J.
L." In a letter accompanying the invoice from the shippers to the
consignees, they say, " For Mr. J. L. we open an account in our
books here, and debit him, &c. We cannot yet ascertain the proceeds of his hides, &c., but in his order for goods will far exceed
the amount of these shipments ; therefore we consign the whole to
you, that you may come to a proper understanding with him." It
was held that the goods were, during their trailsit, the property,
and at the risk of the enemy shippers, -and, therefore, subject to
condemnation.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of'
Massachusetts. The shipSt. Joze Indiano, bound
from Liverpool to Rio de Janeiro, was captured and
sent into the United States, as prize of war, in the
summer of 1814. The ship and most of the cargo
were condemned as British property in the circuit
court, and there was no appeal by any of the claimants except in behalf of Mr. J. Lizaur, of Rio de
Janeiro. The right of Mr. J. Litaur, to have restitution of, property belonging to him, at the time
of capture, was not contested by the- captors; but
it was contended, that the property in question, when
captured,'was at- the risk of the shippers, Messrs.
Dyson, Brothers & 0i,. of Liverpool. The bill of

iOF THE UNITED STATES.

209

.lading did not specify any order, or account and risk. 1816.
The invoice was headed, " consigned to Messrs.
The
Dyson, Brothers & Finnie, by order, and for account st. joze Inof J. Lizaur." In a letter accompanying the bill of diao.
lading and invoice, of the 4th of May, 1814, from
Dyson, Brothers & Co. to Dyson, -Brothers & Finnie, they say, "For Mr. Lizaur, we open an account
in our books here, and debit him, &c. We cannot
yet ascertain the proceeds of his hides, &c., but find

his order for goods willfar exceed the arzount of these
.sbipments, therefore we consig th. whole to yo*, that
y/ou may come to a proper inderstading with him."

The house of Dyson, Brothers &.Co., of Liverpool,
and of Dyson, Brothers & Finnie, of Rio, consist of

the same persons; goods 'claimed in behalf of the
latter house were condemned on the .ground that
both firms represented tho same parties in interest,
and from this decision there was no appeal.
Harper, for the appbllant and. claimant. This
ease may be contrasted with those said to be similar.
In the case of Kimmel and Alvers,a on the authority of which this portion of the cargo was condemned in the court below, the claimants had ordered.
the goods shipped, but there was no evidence that
they had paid for any part of the goods, orthat they
were charged to them.by the shippers., In that case
the breaking out of the war produced a change in
the destination of the goods, and a complete coihtrol
ever them was retained by the vendor, which con'a The Merrimack. February (ern, 1814.
Yo1.

2 J)

210

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1816.

"
The

bt.

trol was exercised by his directing his agent not to
deliver them without payment in cash, in case war

Joze In-should

diano.

have been declared before their arrival. The

doctrine in the case of the Messrs. Wilkins,b fully

bears out the present claim. In that case, the mere
right of stoppage in transitu, was held to be vested
by the shipper in his agent, to be exercised only in
the event of insolvency. But in the case now before the court, the power of Dyson & Co. was limited to an arrangement for the payment of a certain.
part 'of the price only which remained unpaid. In
the case of the Messrs. Wilkins no part was paid in
advance, and the goods wvere not charged .to the
claimants, another circumstance which distinguishes
it from the present. The case of Magee and Jones,'
and that of Dunham and Randolph,' was a mere offer to sell, not a sale agreed to by the vendee, like
that in the present case.
Dexter, for the respondents and captors. The
case is clearly within the principles adjudged. Thus,
it has been determined, incidentally, at the present
term, in the case of Van Wagenan,' that property is
not immediately vested in the correspondent by a
purchase by his agent, by order, whether it be with
the money of the former or latter. The case of
Messrs. Wilkins was not a unanimous decision of
the court, but is clearly distinguishable from the preb
c
d
e

The
The
The
The

Merrimack. February term, 1814.
Venus. February term, 1814.
Frances. February term, 1815.
Mary and Susan. Vide supra, p. 46.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sent. Here there was no change of possession from
the shippers: the goods were in their possession
during the voyage, by .their agent, the master; hid
the goods arrived, they would- still have been in
their possession, by their agents, the cQnsignees. If
the goods remained the property df the shippers:at
the time of shipment, and during the voyage, then

1816.
The

St. Joze Ili

they became the property of the captorsi jure be/li.

They remained the property of the shippers, because they were consigned to their agents, to be de-

livered, contingently, tothe claimant.
goods arie confiscable as prize of war.

Therefore the
The cases of

Magee and Jones, and of Dunham and Randolph, are
in point.
STORY,

J., delivered the opinion of the court, and,

after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:

The single question presented on these facts is,
in whom the property was vested at the time of its
transit;. if in Mr. Lizaur, then it is to be restored;
if in the shippers, then it is to be condemned. It is
contended, in behalf of the claimant, that the goods
having been purchased by the order, and partly
with the funds, of Mr. Lizaur, the propeitty vested in
him immediately by the purchase,. and the contract
being executed by the sale, no delivery was necessary
to perfect the legal title: that nothing was reserved to
the shippers but a-mere right of stoppage in trannitu,and that if they had been burnt before the shipment,
or lost during the oyage, the loss mu. have fallen
on Mr. Lizaur.

M'arch 9t,

212

CASES IN, THE SUPREME COURT

The doctrine as to the right of stoppage in transi;
tu, cannot apply to this case. That right exists in
The
St. Jbze In- the single case of insolvency, and presupposes, not
diano.
cn'ly tha1t the property' has passed to the consignee,
but that the possession is in a third per-on in the
transit to the consignee. It cannot, therefore,
touch a case where the actual or constructive possession still remains in the shipper or his exclusive
agents. In general, the rules of the prize court, as
to the vesting of property, are the same with those
of the common law, by which the thing sold, *after
the completion of the contract, is properly at the
risk of the purchaser.- But the question still.recurs,
when is the contract executed ? It is certainly competent for an agent abroad, who purchases in pursuance of orders, to vest the property in his principal immediately on the purchase.. Tlis is the case
when he purchases exclusively on the credit ef his
principal, or makes an absolute appropriation and
1816.

f By ;the common law, the right
of property in the thing sold is
completely vested in the purchaser
by the execution of the contract,.
subject to the equitable right of
stoppage in transituin case of insolvency, and where the bil of lading has not been, in the mean
time, endorsed to a third person.
But by the civil law, the right of
property was not vested in the purchaser, unl~ss the goods were paid
for, orsoldonacredit. Just.l. '2.
tit. 1. s. 41.
Pothier Traitl de
Venle, No. 322. But this rule is
mnot copied by the Napoleon Code,

which, on the contrary, adopts a
principle similar to that of the commonlaw. Elle(la vente) esiparfaite entre lesparties, ef la prpr l
est acquize de droit a l'egard du
vendeur, des qu'on est convrenu de
la chose et duprix, quoiquc la chose
n'ait pa encore dtd livrde ni te
prix payi'. Code Napoleon, 1. 3.
tit. 6. c. 1. No. 1583.
The
French Commercial Code also
subjects the goods sold to the right
of stoppage in transitu, by the vendor, upon the same conditions with
our own law. Code de Commerce,
1. 3. tit. 3. De la Reve:dicat n.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

21V

designation of the property for his principal. But
1816.
where a merchant abroad, in pursuance of orders.
The
either sells his own goods, or purchases goods on st. Joze lr.
his own credit, (and -thereby, in reality, becomes the diano.
owner,) no property in the goods vests in his correspondent until lie has done som6 notorious act to devest himself of his title, or has 'parted with the possession by ar actual and unconditional delivery for
the use of such correspondent. Until that time he
has in legal contemplation tie. exclusive property, as
well as possession;- and it is not a wrongful act in
him to convert them to any use which he pleases.
He is at liberty to contract upon any new engagements, or substitute any new conditions -in relation
to the shipment; These principles have beer, frequently recognised in prize causes heretofore decided
in this court! In the present case, the delivery to
the master was not for the use of Mr. Lizaur, but for
the consignees, a house-composed of the same pergiIn the Venus, at February
term, 1814, on the claim of Messrs.
Magee & Jones, Mr. Justice
WASiLNGTON,

in delivering the

opinion or the court, obsdrved"To effect a change of prbp'erty,
as between seller and buyer, it is
essential that there should be a
contract of sale agreed to by'hoth
parties, arqd if the thing agreed to
be purchased is to be sent by the
vendor to the vendee, it 'is neces%ary to the perfection of the conract that it should be delivered
v the purchaser, or to his agent

which lie master ofa ship to many
purposes is considered to be."
And adverting to the facts of that
claim, he further says: "The delivery of the goods to the master
of the vessel was not for the use
of Magee & Jones, any more than
it was for the shipper solely, and
consequently it amounted to nothing so as to devest the Property
out of the shi-ei *until Magee
should elect to take them on joint
account or to act as the agent of
Jonbs. -

214

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sons as the shippers, and acting as their agents.
U therefore, retained the constructive possession,
The
SThy
St. Joze In- as well as right of property, in the shippers; and it
dianp.
is apparent from the letter, that the shippers meant to
reserve to themselves and to theit agents, in relation
to the shipment, all those powers which ownership
gives over property. It is mlaterial, also, in this view,
that all the papers, respecting the shipment, were
addressed to their own house, or to a house[ acting
as their agents, and the claimants could have no
knowledge or control of the shipment, unless by the
con nt of the consignees, under future .arrangements to be dictated by them. In this view this case
cannot be distingutshed from that of Messrs. Kimmell and Alvers; and it steers widd of the distinction
upon which Messrs. Wilkins' claim was sustained.k
The authorities also cited at the argument by the
captors are exceedingly strong to, the same effect..
The 'Aurora' approaches very near to the present
ease. There the shipment, by the express agreement of the parties; was, in reality, going for the
use, and by the order, of the purchaser, but consigned to other persons, who were to deliver them if they
were satisfied for the payment. And Sir William
Scott there quotes a case as having been lately decided,
where goods sent by a merchant in Holland, to A., a
person in America; by order, and for account, of B.,
with directions not to deliver' them unless satisfaction should be given for the payment, were condemned, as the property of the Dutch shippers.
1816.

h The Merqimack.
4 R ob. 218.

February Termn, 1814.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

215

On the whole, the court are unanimously of. opi1816.
nion, that the goods included in this shipment were,
Renner and
during their transit, the property, and at the risk of Bussard
the. shippers, and, therefore, subject to condemna- Mashall.
tion. The claimn of Mr. Lizau r must; therefore, be
rejected.
Sentence affirmed with costs.

(COMMON LAW.)
RENNER & BuSSARD V. MARSHALL.
The commencement or another suit for the same cause of action in
the court of another stafte since the last continuance, cannot be
PIeadedi in abatement of the original suit,.
If matter in abatement is pleaded puis darrein continuance, the judgment, if against the defendant, is peremptory.
'Where the action is brought for a sum certain, or which may be rendered certain by coihputafion, judgment for the damhges may be,
entered by the court without a writ of inquiry.

to the circuit for the district of Columbia
for Washington county. The defendant in error, at
June term, 1813, declared against the plaintiffs in
error in. assumpsit, uljon an inland bill of exchange
drawn by one Rootes on Renner & Bussard, and
accepted by them; to which declaration they pleaded non- ssurnysit, and issue was thereuipon joined, and
the cause was continued to December term, 1813.
At that tqrm the plaintiffs in error appeared and
ERROR

