OF THE UNITED STATES.
.1816.
(LOCAL LAW.)

Anderson
V.

Longden.

ANDERSON V.LONGDEN.
Where a bond was given by the agent of an unincorporated joint stock
company, to the directors for the time being, for the faithful performance of his duties, &c., and the directors were appointed annually,
and changed before a breach of the condition of the bond, the agent
and his sureties were held liable to an action brought by the obligees after they had ceased to be directors.

ERROR from the circuit court for ihe county of

Alexandria.
This was an action of debt instituted by the defendants in error, (plaintiffs in the circuit cou.i,) as
directors of the Domestic Manufacture Company of
Alexandria, against Robert Andersou, (the plainfiff
3. tit. 6. ch. 1. art. 1585, 2 Er.k*ine's Inst. 480, 481. *'This distinction is recognized by Pothier,
who remarks, that the contract of
sale is usually perfected by the
agreement as to the price; and,
that this rule applies where the
sale is of a specific article, for a
gross price. Si id quod venierit
appareatquid quale quantumve sit,
4. pretium, 4- pure venit ; perfecta
est emptio. 1. 8. Dig. de peric.
4- comm. R. vend. But, if the
commodity be of that description
of articles, which consist in quanitate, and which are sold by the
weight, number, or measure, the
'alc is imperfect until it is weigh-

ed, counted, or measured. In the
first case, the goods sold are at the
risk of the vendee, from the. moment the contract is made : in. the
last case, they remain at the risk
of the vendor, until they are designated by the act of w.Aighing,
counting, or measuring. But, in
both cases, the contract is so far
completed from the time of its being entered into, as to give the
vendee a right of action for the
delivery of the thing on tendering
the price, and the vendor an action for the price, oRntendering a
delisery of the thing sold. Contratdc Vente, No. 308. See aso
6 East, 6-5.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

"

And-rson

v.

Longden.

in error,-) on a bond given by him and others as sureties for John Mac Leod, agent of the said company,
to the said directors, to recover the amount of money

and merchandise which the said agent had received

for the use of the company, and for which he had
failed tp account.
On the 17th of November, 1809, a number of persons in Alexandria associated together, and formed a
company, for the purpose of encouraging the manufacture and use of domestic merchandise; they entered into articles for their government, of which the
follawing extracts are all that are material in this
case:
"Art. 2. As soon as the whole, or 1,000 shares of
the said capital stock, shall have been subscribed for,
and the first payment made thereon, a meeting of the
stockholders shall be called by public notice in the
Alexandria and Washington newspapers, to meet in
the court house of Alexandria, either in-person or by
proxy duly authorized, at whidh meeting the stockholders, either personally or by proxy, shall elect by
ballot seven of their own body to act 'as directors of
the said company fbr one year."
"Art. 3. The affairs of the said company shall be
carried on in the town of Alexandria, under the superintendance and control of the said' directors, of whom
any four shall form a board or quorum. They shall
choose a chairman from among themselves, and in
case of vacancy by death, resignation, or otherwise,
such vacancy shall be immediately filled by themselves from among the stockholders. And the said
1irectors shall in no case whatever contract debt-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

or engagements, by bill, bond, or otherwise, for, or
on account of, the company, but all dealings under
their superintendance and control aloresaid, shall be
for cash or barter, except goods on deposite, which
may be sold by the direction of the consignor. The
said directors shall also exhibit, at the annual meeting
of stockholders, fbr their inspection, a statement of
the affairs of the comipahy for the year preceding."
"Art. 4. The directors, when elected, shall proceed, without delay, to appoint an agent and such
other officers as may be requisite, all of whom shall
hold their offices during the pleasure of the board,
and who shall, befbre they enter upon their functions,
give bond, with sufficient security, to the said directors; and their successors in office, for the fiitaful
discharge of their duties, as prescribed by the board
of directors."
The company having proceeded to elect directors,
John Mac Leod was appointed agent by them; and
on the 13th of February, 1810, the said agent, with
the plaintiff in error and others, his sureties, executed and delivered to the defendants in error, directors of the said company, their joint and several
bond, in the penalty of 10,000 dollars, the condition
of which was, "that the said John Mac Leod should,
in all respects, faithfully execute and perform the duties assigoed to him as agent, according to the terms
and meanino- of the articles of association, and also
such oler duties as are, or from time to time should
be, assigned to the office of agent by the board of directors, and should, from time to time, when called
upon, render a just and rue account of :,ll money,

1816.

V.
g

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
Anderson

V.

Longdn.

goods, &c. of the said company which should coint
to his hands, and should apply the same as he should
be directed; and should, in all respects, whilst he
held the office, conduct himself with honesty, and
fidelity, and attention to the interest of the company." The said agent continued in the service of the.
con,:.any, without any new appointment, until June,
1812, vilen he was dismissed; and having gone out
in arrears to the company,, this suit was brought
against the plaintiff in error, to recover the amount
due to the company. To this suit the defendant in
the circuit court, taking oyer of the bond, pleaded,
1st. "Conditions performed;" towhich the plaintiff
replied, specially setting forth, as the breaches relied
on, "that money and merchandise, the property of
the company, had come to the hands of J. Mac Leod.
as agent, &c., to the amount of 4,000 dollars, for
which he had failed to account, though required by
the directors, and which he did not deliver over tj
his successor, as ordered by th6 directors. On this
replication issue was taken. The defendant in the
circuit court pleaded, 2dly. That the plaintiffs (Longden and others) ceased to be directors at the expiration of one year from the time of their appointment,
and were not directors when the suit was brought:
to this plea the plaintiffs demurred generally.
In his third plea the defendant states that John
Mac Leod was appointed agent on the 13th of February, 1810; and that for one year from the time of
such appointment, and during the time the plaintiffr
acted as directors, he had faithfully executed and perfrmed his duty, &e.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

To which the plaintiffs (protesting that he had not
faithfully performed his duties for one year) replied
that J. Mac Leod had continued in office for more than
one year from the 13th of February, 1810, under
the said appointment, and after the plaintiffs ceased
to be directors; during which time merchandise, &c.,
to the amount of 4,000 dollars, came to his hands,
&c., which he had failed to account for; to which
the defendant demurred.
The defendant pleaded, 4thly, that the plaintiff
had not instituted any suit at law against Mac Leod
for the breach of the condition of the bond ;'to whi'ch
the plaintiff demurred generally.
The law on the demurrers was adjudged by the
court for.the plaintiffs., (Longden and others,) and on
the trial of the issue the jury found for the plaintiff,
and assessed damages, &c.
The record presents a bill of exceptions, which
states that the defendant offered in evidnlend to the
jury the books of the company, from Which it appeared that the agent had- been in the habit of selling
merchandise on credit, from the month of January,
1810, until June, 1812; which books 'were open to
the examination -of the directors; that it appeared
from the bo6ks that. sales on credit had been made
to three of tl-e directors, plaintiffs in this suit; that
the defendant also offered a copy of the report of a
committee of directors made on the 19th of September, 1812, in pursuance of an order of the 6th of
June, preceding.
Evidence was also offered to prove that the directors, -to the number required by the articles, held
V ot. T.

AT

1816.
Anderson

V.

Longdlen.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

99

1816.

meetings, at which thcy gave directions for the

management of the affairs of the company; that their
Anderson

rbogden.

proceedings were regularly reduced to writing, and
signed by the chairman.
On which evidence the defendant's counsel moved
the court to instruct the jury, "that if from the evidence aforesaid they should be of opinion that the
directors of the company had permitted the said
credits to be given, and had acquiesced in! the same,
the defendant would not be liable for the merchandise s'old on credit, and appearing on the books of
the company;" which instruction the court refused,
and instructed the jury, " that the evidence did pot,
in tdw, justify an inference that the directors, acting
as a board under the articles, had authorized the
agent to sell the merchandise aforesaid, on credit,
and that the agent could -not, in law, be justified in
selling on credit by any direction of the directors;
individually 'Made,when not acting as a boaid under
the articles;" to which opinion and instruction the
counsel for defendant excepted.

Swann, for the plaintiff in error, argued, that the
bond must conform to the articles of association,
which was not incorporated. Ho cited the case of
the Commonwealth v. Fairfax et al., where the words
"-so long as he shall continue in office," in the condition of a sheriff's bond, were construed not to
extend to a second and new appointment.
Lee, for the defendant in error, was stopped by
the court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J.

The -case of the sheriff's

91

i816.

bond is very different. The commission of sheriff,
-,,,
Corporation
.in
Virginia, is annual; of course, his sureties are of New-Orbound for one year only. It is true, the directors of leans
V..
this company are elected annually; but the company Winter.
has not said that the agent shall be for one year
only: his appointment is during pleasure. The
sureties do not become sureties in consequence of
their confdence in the directors, but of .their confidence in'the agent whose sureties they are. 'The
court isunanimously of the opinion that the judginent of the circuit court ought to be affirmed.
Judgment af.rmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

Tii

CORPORATION OF NEw-ORLEANS V.
TER ET AL.

A citizen of a lerriiory.cannotsue a citizen of a state, in the courts of
the United States, nor can those courts take. jurisdiction by other
parties being joined, who are capable of suing. All the parties on
each side must be subject to the jurisdiction, or the suit will be dismissed.
ERROR

from the district court for the district of

Louisiana. The defendants in error commenced
their suit in'the said court, to recover the possession
and property of certain lands in the city of New-

