OF THE UNITED STATES.

The court considers the sailing, under an enem-'s
license, as closely connected, in principle, with the
offence of trading with the enemy; in which case it
is believed to be incontrovertible, that the knowledge of the agent would affect the principal, although he might, in reality, be ignorant of the facts
Upon this ground, the sentence of the circuit court is
affirmed with costs.
Sentence affirmed.
g Thus, where a shipment was
made to the enemy, by the partners of a house of trade, resident
in a neutral country, without the
knowledge or consent of a copartner resident in the belligerant
state, his share was held liable to
confiscation. 6 Rob. 129. The
Franklin. And it appears, from

that case, that even an inactive,
or sleeping, partner, (as it is
termed,) has been held, by the
Lords of Appeal, incapable of receiving restitution in a transaction in which he could not lawfully be enxgaged, as a sole tader. 1b. 131-

~:e
(LOCAL LAW.)
AsiMIDON V. SIITH ET Al
Under the laws of Rhode-Island, a discharge, according to the actfor
the relief of poor prisonersfor debt, although obtained by fraud and
perjury, is a lawful discharge, anl not an escape; -and, upon such a
discharge, no action can be maintained upon a bond for the liberty
of the prison yafd.

THis was an action of debt brought by the plaintiff against the defendant, in the circuit court of

1816.
Ammidon
V.

Smith;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

I*
.Aimidon
v.
fmdt.

Rhode-Island, on a bond dated the 31st day of Au-

~ gust, 1810, with a condition, that if Simon Smith, a
prisoner in jail, at-the suit of the said Philip Ammidon, shall "continue and be a true prisoner in the
custody, guard, and safe keeping of Roger Allenton,
keeper of the said prison, &c., within the limits of
the said prison, until he shall be lawfully discharged,
without committing any manner of escape, or escapes,
during the term of his resttaint, then this obligation
to be.void," &c.
The defendants pleaded, severally, two several
pleasFirst. That said Simon did remain a true prisoner
until lawfully discharged, and made n6 escape.
Second. That, after notifying his creditors, he did
take the oath provided by the law of the state of
Rhode-Island, for the relief of poor prisoners confined*for debt, before proper authority, which oath is
as follows: " that he had not any estate, real or
personal, in possession, remainder, or reversion, over
,.en dollars, and that he had not, since the commencement of the said suits against him, or at any other
time, directly or indirectly, sold, leased, or otherwise
conveyed, or disposed of to, or intrusted any person
or persons whomsoever with, all, or any part, of the
est,.te, real or personal, whereof he hath been the
lawful owner or possessor, with any intent or design
to secure the same, or to receive, or to expect any
profit or advantage therefrom for himself or any of
his family, nor had he caused, or suffered to be done
any thing whatsoever whereby any of his creditors
may be defrauded."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

To the first plea the plaintiff replied, that he did
not remain a true prisoner until lawfully discharged,
&c. To the second he replied, that, after the cornmencement of the action, on which he was imprisoned, and after the contracting of. the debt on
which the action was brought, the said Simon
was seised and possessed of real estate to the value
of 40,000 dollars, and that, fraudulently contriving
with his sons Darius and Simon, jun., his sureties
in said bond, to defraud him of his said debt, did
lease, sell, and convey to said Darius and Simon,
jun. and his other children, all his said real estate,
and did intrust them with it, for his and their benefit,
with intent to defraud the plaintiff, and that he might
be admitted to the benefit of the oath mentioned in
said plea; that said Simon did intrust with said Darius and Simon, jun. and his other children, all his
estate, both real and personal, of the value of 50,000
dollars, with the advice, counsel, and assistance, and
under the direction of said Darius and Simon, jun.
and his other children, with an intent and design to
secure the same to the said Darius and Simon, jun.
and his family, to defraud the plaintiff of his said
debt; and be avers that the said Simon did falsely
and fraudulently take said oath, with intent wilfully,
falsely, and fraudulently to hinder, delay, and defraud
the plaintiff of his just debt aforcsaid, and avoid the
payment thereof, and thereby hinder, delay, and defraud the other creditors of the said Simon of their
just debts And this be is ready to verify, wherefore hb prays judgment, &c. In his replication to
VOL. .-

3B

1816.
Ammidon.

V.

Smith.

450
1816.
Ammidan
Am.ido
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the pleas of the two sureties, the plaintiff adds an
averment, that the said Simon took the said oath,
thRey, the defendants, well knowing that the same
was false and fraudulent; and that the said Simon
did wilfully, falsely, and fraudulently take the said
oath with intent thereby to hinder, delay, and defraud the plaintiff of his just debt aforesaid, and
avoid the payment thereof, and thereby hinder and
defraud the other creditors of the said Simon of their
just debts.
To this replication the defendants demurred, and
the plaintiff joined.
On the argument of this demurrer, the juidges of
the circuit court were divided in opinion, whether
the replication was sufficient to avoid the plea, which
division of opinion was certified to this court.

*Pitkin, for the plaintiff. The question is, whether
the fralidulent, conduct of the defendants, as stated
in the pleadings, can be taken advantage of in a suit
on the bond. The laws of Rhode-Island allow persons imprisoned for debt on mesne process; or execution, the limits of the prison, on giving a bond to
the creditor to remain true prisoners until lawfully
discharged. Debtors, having no estate, who takean
oath that they have not any estate over 10 dollars,
and that they have not disposed of any part.of the
estate of which they were possessed, for their own
benefit, or that of their families, or with intent to defraud their creditors, may be discharged from jail;
but if confined on execution, the debtor must leave
with the keeper, to be dcli er'ed to his creditor, his

OF THE UNITED STATES.

promissory note, payable to such creditor, for the

1816.

amount of the debt, in two years, with interest.a In
V
Ammidon
this case the debtor was released from prison by
v.
the forms of law; but this discharge being obtained smith.
by fraud and perjury, is wholly inoperative, and a
departure from the limits under colour of such a dis-

charge, is, in law, an escape, and a breach of the
condition of the bond. Fraud vitiates every act;
and this axiom of jurisprudence is consecrated by the
laws of Rhode-Island, which provide, " That if any
such prisoner aforesaid shall be convicted of having
sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of, or intrusted
his or her estate, or any part thereof, directly or indirectly, contrary to his or her aforegoing oath, or
affirmation, he or she shall not only be liable to the
pains and penalties of wilful peijury, but shall receive
no benefit from said oath or afirmation.' 'b The word
" convicted," could not have been used here technicalty, but merely to declare, that if any person should
swear falsely as to the disposition of his property, he
should not only be liable for perjury, but should receive no benefit from such -false swearing. Any
other construction would defeat the object of the
statute. The laws of the state contain a similar
provision respecting debtors obtaining the benefit
of the insolvent act; yet it has never been held, that
the fraudulent debtor must be first criminally convicted in order to give effect to this provision.
Iunter, contra.

1. The discharge was obtained

a Digest, p. 227.
b Digest p. 231.

Suppkement, p. 73.

5ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

452
1816.
Ammidon

V.

Smith.

by a court of competent jurisdiction, and is, therefore, of complete obligation. The decision in the
present case was not only that of a court of compe
tent jurisdiction, and, therefore, conclusive, but it
was in terms and effect a decision upon the very
point now in controversy, and between the same
parties. The statute is solicitous to prevent fraud,
and for that purpose allows to the party creditors
a right to show the probability that a perjury is intended, and by that -means a fraud may be perpetrated, and applying to the conscience of the debtor,
imposes on him an oath of detailed, explicit, and unequivocal purgation. The present plaintiff has no
right to complain; though duly summoned, he did
not appear, and his contumacy has forfeited his right
of action. There is no principle of our jurisprudence more firmly settled, more reasonable and -salun
tary, than that a party shall not be permitted to turn
his own omissions into a charge upon another. Even
a court of chancery will refuse relief against fraud,
if it be obvious that it might have been urged by
the complainant as matter of defence in a previous
suit at law.c The discharge of the defendant is -said
to be invalidated by conveyances previously made by
him. But of these conveyances the plaintiff had notice; tie law requiring them to be recorded, and
the plaintiff admitting that he had actual notice. If,
then, these deeds constituted the fraud, the defendant had notice of the fraud, and ought to have apc 1 John. Cas. 392. Le Guen v. Gouverneur & Kemble.
Burr. 1009. 7 ta'. A 269. 2 H. B1ack. 414.

2

OF THE UNITED STATES.

peared to oppose the discharge. Knowing the defendant not to be entitled to it, he stands by, and
permits him to obtain it, with an intention to convert
a bond, meant as a substitution for the prison walls,
into a pecuniary security for his debt, and 30 per
cent. in addition. The plaintiff's conduct is thusanalogous to a permissive escape at common law,.
where neither the creditor nor the sheriff can retake
the prisoner even in a fresh suit. 2" Considering
this as a question upon the construction of the tond,
no breach of its condition can be inferred. Such a
breach imports an actual wrongful escape; such as
at common law would give the sheriff a right of recaption-such as would subject him to an action, and
the prisoner to an indictment. The phraseology of
the bond in that of the common'law, and the definition of the correlative phrases "escape" and "true
prisoner," are exact, invariable, and immemorial.
That can never: be an escape where the pris6n doors
are opened by the hand of the law. ie must have
remained a true prisoner whose remaining a single
moment longer, by restraint, would have subjected
his keeper to an action for false imprisonnient,l. Escape, according to the definition as ancient as Rastel
in his Terms deyLey, and adopted by Saundf. P. C.
cap. 26., and all the subsequent writers, means a
violent, or privy evasion of 'some lawful restraint.
It is a solecism in language to say, that a discharge
and enlargement by a court is an escape; for, if the
court has jurisdiction, the- sheriff cannot judge of the
validity of the process and other proceedings of such

452

1816.
Ammidon

V.

Smith.

464

CASES IN THE SUP'REME COURT

i816.

court, but must obey.d By the ancient common law,
prison breaking, either in a criminal or civil suit, was
Ammidon
v.
felony, and it is still an indictable offence.' Can it
Sith. be pretended that the prisoner could be convicted
of this offence? or that our jurisprudence is so inconsistent as to present a different result on the same
question, merely because the forms are conducted by
a civil and not a criminal procedure? 3. The plaintiff has mistaken his remedy, and the mistake proceeds upon a violent attempt to convert a contract
that a man shall not escape, into a guarantee for
tb payment of money. Undoubtedly, the general policy of the law is, to compel payment from
the debtor by the imprisonment of his body; but
its rigour has been mitigated by statute, which
permits him to see the light of heaven, and breathe
its genial air, upon giving security that he will not
abuse this privilege by a forcible or privy escape.
This is all the sureties engage for; their contract is
prospective"only; and if the prisoner has previously
made himself poor, by voluntary conveyances, it has
no relation with- their obligation. In this case the
creditor's remedy is not upon the bond, for the original debt remains; the contract is. unimpaired.
There is a renewal-a novation, as the civil law
terms it, of the debt. The prisoner is obliged to
-ive his promissory note for the amount of the execution, with interest; and his enlargement may,
even then, be prevented by the creditor, by paying
one dollar a week for his support in prison. In orCt Mtoor, 274.

1 Dyer, 66S.

e 2 Inst. 509.

Cro. Car. 210.

OF THE -UNITED STATES.

1816.
der to extinguish the original debt, and create a remedy upon the bond, the prisoner must be convicted Ammidon
v.
of the firaud by a criminal process. Until that is
Smith.
done, his oath is taken for truth; it is the medium
of proof, and its substitute, as in cases of usury, or
in the action of book account, or book debt, which
prevails in the eastern states, where the oath of the
party to his original entries is primafacie evidence
to enable him to recover. If the prisoner be convicted of perjury, the sentence would proceed to vacate all the proceedings consequent upon the fraud.
All the cases under the stat. 27 Eliz. c. 4. s. 7., and
other like statutes, from Twine's case, soon after the
'enactment of the*statute, down to the case of Meux
v. Howell, (4 East,) exhibit the same combinalion of
civil and criminal procedure. The insolvent law of
Rhode-Island of 1756, and the statute under which
this bond .was taken, are alike, That law is mostly
a transcript of. an English statute passed the year
before, which act was one of those temporary insolvent laws which have been passed, from time to
time, since the original act of Charles II., made principally, in cohsequence of the great fire of London.
It is not probable, then, that the word " conviction,"
in this law, was used in any other than its technical
and correct signification of a cbnviction in a court of
criminal judicature. - Such a conviction wo.uld be
conclusive evidence of the fact, if it afterwards came
in question in a court of civil jurisdiction. The
plaintiff may pursue his remedy in a court of cornf Hubert's case, Cro. Eliz. 531.

12Rep. 123.

CASES IN THE STYTPREME COURT

456
1816.
A
Ammidoa

V.
Smith

mon law, or in chancery; or, he may resort to the
legislature of Rhode-Island, which, by the peculiar
institutions and usages of that state, possesses the
power of nullifying the proceedings of the ordinary
courts of justice. There being no written constitution, its sovereignty is limited by nothing but its federal compact with the United States; and in the exercise of its residuary sovereignty, it is like the British parliament, in a legal sense, omnipotent.' 4. But
this case is settled by that of Simms & Wise v. SlacunI which is undistinguishable in point of principie, and the minute differences between the law of
Virginia and that of Rhode-Island strengthen and
illustrate the main principle of decision.
Pitkin, in reply. The discharge cannot be conlusive, because the proceedings are summary, and
founded entirely on the debtor's oath; from the determination of the magistrates Ao appeal lies, nor
can they grant a new trial. The prison doors were
not opened by the hand of the law, but by a fraud
upon the law. In the case of Simms v. Slacum, the
court held that if the surety had combined with the
magistrate, in order to procure the discharge, he
could not set it up, by way of defence, to an action
on the bond. By the laws of the state, perjury is
punishable by three years' imprisonment; but this
punishment could not be inflicted, if-a civil sentence
g As to the power of parliament, see" Lord's.: Tournals, vol. 1., p.
Comror's Journals, vol. 8., p. 344.
Sir Edward Powell's
191.
case.
h 3 Crandl, 307

057

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is, at the same time, to be pronounced, that the party
shall return to the debtor's prison. Neither an action at law, nor a suit in chancery, can enforce the
plaintiff's just rights' upon the lands conveyed, in the
bands of bonafide purchasers. Nor can the case of
imms v. Slacuin be considered as decisive of the
present, since the provisions of the two statutes are
so. different, and the point did not come up directly
in that case; but when it was again brought before
the court, upon a special verdict, the principles settled were favourable to the present plaintiff.'

1816.
Ammidon

V.
smith.

MARSHALL, Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the March
court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as follows
The act of' the legislature of Rhode-Island, on
which this case depends, enacts, " That it shall and
may be lawful for the sheriffs of the several counties,
to grant to any person imprisoned for debt, a chamber in any of the houses, or apartments, belonging
to such prison, and liberty of the yard within the
limits thereof, on his giving bond to the creditor,
with two sufficient sureties,, in double the amount of
the debt, with condition to remain a true prisoner
until lawfully discharged, and not to escape. And
in case the creditor shall put the bond in suit, and
recover judgment thereon for breach of the condition, he is to recover his debt with thirty per centum
on the principakl sum for his damages;" and the principal, and his sureties, shall be committed to close

i 5 Cranch, 363.
Vor,. L

3M

218t.

458

CASES

isis.
m
Amraidon

V.

Smith.

IN THE SUPREME COURT

jail until the judgment be paid. The law, then,
prescribes the manner in which a poor prisoner may
obtain his discharge. On application to any judge
of the curt of common pleas, or justice of the peace
in the county, -notice is to be given to the creditor to
appear at such time and place as the judge or justice
shall appoint, to show cause why the prisoner should
not have the bnefit of the act. Any one judge of
the court of common pleas, and any one disinterested justice, a;re then authorized to administer the oath
prescribed in the'law; "if, after fully examining and
hearing the parties, the said justices shall think
proper so to do." A certificate being given to the
jailer, the prisoner is to be discharged, on leaving
with the jail keeper, to be delivered to his creditor,
his note payable to the creditor in two years, with
interest, for the amount of the execution. It is then
enacted, that if any such prisoner shall be convicted
of having sold, leased, or otherwise concealed, or
disposed of, or intrusted his or her estate, or any
part thereof, directly or indirectly, contrary to his
or her oath, or affirmation, he, or she, shall not only
be liable to the pains and penalties of wilful perjury,
but shall receive no benefit from said oath or affirmation.
The question to be decided by this court is, whether a prisoner obtaining a discharge according to
the forms of 'law, by means of fraud and falsehood,
has broken the condition of his bond.
The,'e is so much turpitude in the act confessed
by the demurrer, such reluctance to allow any man
to avail himself of so flagitious a defence, that it is

OF THE UNITED STATES.

not without some difficulty this question can be considered as a naked point of law. It is, however, the
duty of the court so to consider it; and this has been
attempted.
The object for which this bord wad given is of
decisive importance in the inquiry respecting the
extent of the obligation it imposes. It is, certainly,
not given for the purpose of improving the i-curity
of the creditor, but simply for the purpose of allowing the lebtor the benefit of the prison yard, without impairing the right of the creditor to the custody
of his person. The yard, and a comfortable chamber, are substituted for the walls of a jail; but as
this substitution would facilitate an escape, it was
deemed reasonable to secure Ahe creditor against the
abuse of an indulgence which the humanity of the
law afforded. This consideration would suggest the
propriety of provisions against an actual escape, the
means for making which were furnished by allowing
the use of the prison yard; but not against the
employment of fraud or artifice to obtain a discharge, in the manner prescribed by law, which
may be employed in jail as well as in the yard, and
the means of employing which are not in any degree facilitated by substituting the yard for the
walls of the jail. The condition of the bond is, to
remain " a true prisoner, until lawfully discharged,
without committing any escape, or escapes, during
the term of his restraint," and the certificate is a
mode of discharge prescribed by law which terminates " his restraint."- If, as is conceived, this bond
was intended to guard against the dangers created

1816.
Ammidon

V.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
Ammidoa
A4mmidoa.

V
Smith.

by allowing the prisoner the liberty of the prison
yard, not against a fraud already committed, which
is entirely unconnected with the bond, and the enlargement of his limits; then it is not broken by the
practice of such firaud. The persons perpetrating
it are, in a high degree, criminal, and ought not to be
permitted to avail themselves of such conveyances.
The jurisprudence- of Rhode-Island must be defective indeed, if it does not furnish a remedy for such
a mischief. The replication charges these conveyances to have be6n executed by the defendant, pending the suit, for the purpose of defrauding the plaintiff, of defrauding his creditors generally, an, of
enabling himself' to take the oath of an insolven,
debtor. It further charges, that after the execution
of the bond, the false oath. was taken with the
-knowledge of the sureties. However criminal this
act may be, it cannot be punished by extending the
obligation of the bond, on which this suit was instituted. The judgment rendered by the magistrates
was obtained by perjury, but the discharge of the
prisoner, which was the consequence- of that judgment, ' was in the course of law, and is not deemed
an escape.
This question appears to.have been considered by
the court in the case of Simmset al. v. Slacum; and
although the question was not there decided, because
in that case the sureties alone were sued, and did not
appear to be concerned in the fraud of their principal,
yet the reasoning of the court certainly applies to
this -case. The decision in the case of Simms et al.
v. Slacum has been revised, and the court- feels no

OF THE UNITED STATES.

disposition to depart from it. The reasoning it con- 1816.
tains need not be repeated, but is considefed as apAmmidon
plicable to this case.
v.
There is some difference in the provisiont of the Smith.
two statutes, but not en6ugh to induce- a different
construction as to the extent of the obligation of the
bond for keeping the prison rules. The law of
Rh6de-Island enacts, that if any Iprisoner shall be
convicted of having disposed of any part of his estate,
contrary to his oath or affirmation, " he shall not only
be liable to the pains. and penalties of wilful perjury,
but shall receive no benefit from said oath or/Affirmation." Conviction is a technical term applicable
to a judgment on a criminal prosecution, not to a
proceeding on this bond. The act contemplates.a
prosecution on which the party may be adjudged'to
suffer the penalties of perjury, in addition to which
he is to be deprived of all benefit from the oath ori
Afirmation. If this section has any influence it would
be to show that in the contemplati6n of the legisla-.
ture such conviction is necessary previous to the establishment of the absolute nullity of the oath-or
affirmation. The court,.however, does not mean to
indicate that the effect of the oath and of the discharge granted by the magistrates might not be
controverted in any proceeding against the parties,
either in law or equity, other than in a suit on the
bond for keeping the prison rules.
CERTIFIAT.--This cause came on to .be heard
on the transcript of the record from the circuit court
for the district of Rhode-Island, containing the nointn

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

on which the judges of that court were divided ia
and was argued by counsel. On considera'opinion,
Jn
tion whereof this court is of 6pinion that the replicah lao
st
o h l
1hore's exetion of the plaintiff is insufficient to avoid the plea of
eutor.
the defendant. All which is ordered to be certified
to the said circuit court.
1816.

Certificate for the defendant,

(COMMON LAW.)
JO; 3 ET AL. V. SHORE's EXECUTOR ET AL.

Trm UNITED STATES V. JONES ET AL.
A bond was given to T. S., the collector of the district of Petersburg,
under the 2d section of the embargo act of the 22d December, 1807,
and a suit was afterwards brought by him on the same bond in the
district court, and pending the proceedings, to wit, on the 30th of
October, 1811, J. S., the collector, died; and judgment was recovered in favour of the United States on the 30th of November,
1811. On the 26th of the same November, . J. was appointed
collector of the same district, and entered on the duties of his
office on the 14th oiDecember," 1811; until which time T. S., who
was deputy collector nnder J. S. at his decease, continued as such
to discharge the dutiep of the office. The judgment of the district
court was subsequently affirmed by the circuit court. When the
bond was taken A. t. was surveyor of the district, and continued
in that office until his death, which was after the chmmencement
of the suit on the bond and before judgment thereon, and was succeeded by J. H. P. who was appointed on the 30th of March, 1811,
and entered on the duties of his office on the 16th of the same

