482

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
d
Ross and

court for the state of Tennessee, which have settled
the construction of the act of 1797. It has been de-

Morrison
V.

cided, that a possession of seven years is a bar only

Reed

when held "under a grant, or a deed founded on a
grant." The deed must be connected with the
grant. This court concurs in that opinion. A deed
cannot be "founded on a grant" which gives a title
not derived in law or equity from that grant;- and the
words founded on a grant, are- too important to be
discarded. The act of assembly vesting lands in
the trustees of the town of Nashville, is a grant of
those lands, and as the defendant shows no title under the trustees, nor under any other granit, his possession of seven years cannot protect his title, nor
bar that of the plaintiffi And this is to be certified
to the circuit court for the district of West Tennessee.
Certificate for the plaintiff.

(LOCAL LAW.)
Ross AND MORRISON v. REED.
Where the plaintiff in ejectment claimed title to lands in the state of
Tennesspe, under a grant from said state, dated the 26th of April,
1809, founded on an entry made in the entry taker's office, of Washington county, dated the 2d of January, 1779, in the name of J.
M'Dowell, on which a warrant issued on the 17Th of May, 17'9, to
the plaintiff, as the assignee of J.M'Dowell, and the defendants
claimed under a grant from the state of North Carolina, dated the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
9th of August, 1787, it was determined that the prior entry might
be attached to a junior grant so.as to overreach an elder grant, and
that a survey haing been made, and a grant issued upon M'Doweli's entry, in the name of the plaintiff, calling him assigneee of
M'Dowell wasfjrimafacieevidence that the entry vas the plaintiff's
property; and that a warrant is sufficiently certain to be sustained,
if the object* calledfor are identified by the tetimony, or unless
the calls would equally well suit more than one place.

to the circuit court for the district of East
Tennessee.
The defendant in error, who was plaintiff in the
court below, claimed title under.a grant from the
state of Tennessee, bearing date^:the 26th day of
April, 1809, founded on an entry made in the entry
taker's office of Washington county, ,No. 975, dated
on the 2d day of January, 1779, in tlfe name. of Jbhn
M'Dowell, for 500 acres of land, on which a warrant
issued on the 17th day of May, 17,79. The defendants in the court below, now pla.intiffs in error, claim
under a grant from the state of North Carolina to
John Henderson, dated the 9th of August, 1787, and
a deed of conveyance from John Henderson to the
defendant, Ross, duly executed and registered.
Morrison held as tenant under Ross.
At the trial of the cause, a bill of exceptions was
taken by the defendants, in which was stated a transcript taken fiom the book procured from the office
of the secretary of state of the United States, which
contains reports of the lands entered in Sullivan and
Washington counties; also a copy of the wa'rrant
issued to John M'Dowell for 500 acres of land, both
of which are certified by the clerk to the commissioner of East Tennessee. Also- the grants under
ERROR

4831816.
Ross and
Morrison
1r.

CASES IN THE SUPRME COURT

1816.
Ross and
Morrison
Vt.
Reed.

which each party claims, the deed of conveyance
from Henderson to Ross, together with the viva
voce testimony of the witnesses produced. Itthen
proceeds to state "that the defendants contended,
ls{, That having the eldest grant, the plaintiff could
not recover, unless he had shown a prior entry, which
the law would consider special for the place now
claimed, and produced satisfactory evidence 'that the
right was vested in him. That as no proof had
been given that Reed had ever purchased or paid
any consideration for M'Dowell's entry, he could not,
in virtue of that entry, entitle himself to a verdict.
That the mere statement in the survey and grant
that Reed.was assignee of M'Dowell, was no evidence whatever of that fact. 2d. That if such
proof had been given, still he could not recover,
because the proof shoiys that the objects called for
in the entry existed at two places, some distance
from each other; and, therefore, the entry was ambiguous and doubtful. But the court charged and
instructed the jury that the circumstance of a survey
having been made, and a grant issued upon M'Doweli's entry, in the name of Reed, calling him assignee
of M'Dowell, was primafacie evidence that the entry
was. the property of Reed. And that it was true it
the calls in an entry would equally well suit more
than one place, it would not be considered special
for either place ; but it was for the jury to determine,
from the evidence, whether the place spoken of on
the south side of Holston would as well suit the calls
of-Ihe entry as the one on the north side ; and that,
except for J[.imes King.s testimony, he hd hardly

485

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ever heard an. entry better established than the one

i15.

now under cnsideration."

%490and

There was a verdict and judgment in favour of the
plaintiff, and the cause was brought up. to this court
by writ of error.

Morrison
V.

Ross and
Red.

Mrch
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is now objected by the plaintiffs in error, that
the transcript first mentioned contains nothing but a
naked designation. of number, date, person's name,
and number of acres, but no description of the land
whatever; not even specifying the county where
situate.
To this objection it may be answered, that
it is a
fact, which will appear from the reports of cases decided in the courts of Tennessee, that the books containing entries for land in the counties of Sullivan
and Washington have been lost or destroyed. It is
also a fact that the original of the transcript under
consideration was directed, by a statute of Tennessee, to be procured and deposited in the commissioner's office; and copies therefrom, certified by the
clerk, are declared to be evidence in the courts of that
state; but a conclusive answer is furnished by an
exaimination of the bill of exceptions: it was not objected to in the court below.
The same answers may also be given to the objection taken to the copy of the warrant.
Under the laws of North Carolina for appropriating the vacant lands, an entys made with the entry
taker before a warrant issues: the warrant describes
TODD, J.,

21st.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

"
:Ros

d
and

the land specified in the entry: the special or locative calls for appropriation of the land can be seen

Morrison
and examined as well from a view of the warrant as
V.
Reed.

from the entry. In consequence of various frauds
respecting warrants, they were by law to be submitted to a board of commissioners, and if decided to
be valid, the original was deposited with the commissioner, and copies, certified by the clerk, were to
be received in evidence. The copy of the warrant,
in this case, corresponds with these regulations, and
was properly received, nor was it objected to in the
court below.
The practice in the courts of Tennessee, of attaching a prior entry to a junior grant, to overreach an
elder grant in an action of ejectment, was brought
into the view of, and recognized by, this court, in the
case of Polk v. Hill etal.; it is, therefore, not now
to be departed from.
The location in this case, upon the face of thq
warrant, appears to be sufficiently certain to be
sustained, if the objects called for are identified by
the testimony, or unless the calls would equally
well suit more than one place. These were questions properly submitted to the jury; there was,
therefore, no error in the charge and instruction
given on this point. Nor was there error in the residue of the instruction. It is a general principle to
presume that public officers act correctly until the
contrary be shown. It must, therefore, be presumed
that the officer, when he surveyed M'Dowell's entry,
in Reed's name, had sufficient evidence produced to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

487

satisfy him that Reed was the-owner of it, and this
presumption is increased by the act of another officer

1816.

in issuing the grant; these circumstances furnished
printafiieevidence, at least, that he was the owner.

Ross aad
Alorrisou
Rie.!

.JTudgment affirmed.

