OASES IN THE SUPREME COUWix.

292
181 6.
W alden
V.

The Heirs of'
Gratz.

(LOCAL LAW.j

WALDEN V.

THE

HEIRS op' GRATZ.

Under the Act of Assembly of Kentucky, of 1798, entitled, " An Act
concerning champrty and maintenance," a deed will pass the title
to lands, notwithstanding an adverse possession.
The statute of limitations of Kentucky, does not differ essentially from
the English statute of the 21st James I. c. 1., and is to be coustrueE
as that statute, and all other acts of limitation founded upon it, have
been construed. The whole possession must be taken together;
when the statute has once begun to run it continues, and i6 adverse
possession under a survey, previous to its being carried into grant,
may be connected with a subsequent possession.

ERROR to the circuit court fbr the disti-ict of Kentucky. This was an action of ejectment in which
the defendants in error were the lessors of the plaintiff in the court below. The declaration in ejectment was returned to the -November term of that
court, 1813. At the May term, 1814, the suit was
abated as to one defendant; judgment by default was
entered against Joseph Day, another defendant; arid
the defendants were admitted to defend instead of
the casual ejector. The lessors of the plaintiff
claimed under a patent issued to John Craig, in No-

vember, 1784. On the 20th of April, 1791, John
Craig conveyed the lands mentioned in the declara!
tion, in trust, to Robert Johnson, Elijah Craig, und
the survivor of them. On Ihe IIth of February,
1813, Robert Johnson. styling himself surviving

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18.
trustee, conveyed to the lessors of the plaintifl: 'Ihe
defendants below, now plaintiffs in error, claimed "
V.
under a patent issued to John Coburn in Scjtember,
Gratz.Heirso
NeBdnjamin
for
made
survey
a
on
founded
1795,
therland in May, 1732. John Coburn, claiming
under the said survey, entered thereon about the
year 1790, and dwelt in a house within the limits
of said survey, but without the lines of Craig's patcat.
On the trial, the counsel for the defendants below
moved the court to instruct the jury,
Ilst. That if the defendants, and those under whom
they claim, were ini the actual adverse 'possession of
the lands in question, at the making of the deed by
Craig's trustee to the lessors of the plaintiff, that
deed did not pass such title as would enable tiem to
recover in this suit.
2d. That if the defendants', and those under whom
they clairn,'were in the actual adverse possession of
the lands in question, at the making of the deed by
Craig's trustee to the lessors of the plaintiff, and had
held such adverse possession for twenty years next
befbre said time, that said deed did not pass such title
as would enable the plaintiffs to recover in this suit.
3d. That if the defendants, and those under whom
they claim, have had possession of the land in question, or any part thereof, for twenty years next before the commencement of this suit, that the plaintiff
cannot -recover the lands so possessed for twenty
years.
On the two first points, tlc court instructed the
jury that, according to the principles of the common
law, the deed from Craig's trustee to the lescrq of,

294

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the plaintiff, would not pass the title to the lessors of
Walden
W
the plaintiff; but that under the operation of the act
v.
The Heirs of of assembly of the state of Kentucky, of 1798, the
GraL
said deed was valid, and did pass the title to the lessors of the plaintiffs,, notwithstanding the adverse
possession of the defendants. The court refused to
give the last instruction applied for. but did instruct
the jury that if Coburn entered upon the land in controversy, under the survey on which his patent was
founded, and he, and those holding under him, held
the said lands for twenty years and upwards, prior to
tr.L. commencement of this suit, yet, as the patent to
Coburn did not issue until 1795, such p6ssession
could not avail the ,defendants claiming. under the
said Coburn, but that the plaintiffs could recover, notwithstanding such possession. To these opinions
and instructions, given by the court, the counsel for
the defendants below excepted, and the cause was
hirought by writ of error into this court.
1816.

Hardin, for the plaihtiff in error, and defenuant in
ejectment. 1. No person out of possession canigrant;
First, because. at common law there must be livery
of geisin. Secondly, because the grantee could not
purchase a mere right of action. Coburn was in
possession adversely; therefore, the deed from Ciaig's
trustee to the lessors of the plaintiffs was void. 2.
T2he limitation of twenty year's possession by the
defendant before notice of the ejpctment was a complete bar. 3. The deed of trust was joint, and it was
incumbent upon the plaintiff to prove that one of the
ftrstees was dead. The recital in the deed of con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

veyance that E. Craig was dead, was 'no sufficient
.
evidence of that fact, except as between the grantorS Walden
V.
and grantee. 4. There is error in the judgment by
default against Day.
Ther-eirso
'Hughesand Talbot, contra. 1. Before the act- of
1798, " concerning champerty and maintenance,"
no title could pass without an actual possession of
the grantor; but this statute has abrogated the
common law in that particular. But, in fact, Coburn
was not in possession adversely, and a grant from the
commonwealth of vacant lands, gives the patentee a
right to convey. 2. A person leaving it equivocal
what his possession was, cannot have an instruction
in his favour. It doeinot appear what part the defendmnt possessed, nor was the instruction asked under
an adverse possession. Twenty years' possession
was no bar: the local courts adhere to the English
principle, that when the statute has oncc begun to
run, it continues; but the act of assembly difflers
materially from the English act of 21 James I. c. 1.:
and, after the statute has begun to' run, it stops i
the title passes to a person under any legal disability, and recommences after the disability igremoved.
Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the Mar-., iath.
court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
The act of assembly, on which. the opinion of thet
court below, on the first question, was given, is entitled, " An act concerning champerty and mainteRance." It enacts. 4"that no person purrhasing, or
MARSHALL,

296

CASES IN THE SU PREME COURT

procuring an interest in any legal or equitable claim
land held, &c., shall be precluded from prosccuWalden
or dfending said cV under such p
or
v
ino
aim,
purchase
The Heirs of
contract ; neither shall any suit, or suits, brought to
Gratz.
establish such purchase, or make good the title to
such claim, be considered as coming within the provisions, either at common law or by statute, against
champerty or maintenance," &c. This court is of
opinion, that this statute enabled the lessors of the
plaintiff to maintain a suit in their own name for the
lands conveyed to them, and that there is no error
in~this instruction of the circuit court.
On the third questiQn the circuit court ihistructed
the jury that an adverse possessioniunder a survey:
previous to its being carried into grant, could not be
connected with a subsequent possession, but thht the
computation must commence from the date of the
patent. In giving.this opinion, the court unquestionably erred. No principle can be better settled than
that the whole possession niist be taken together.
The counsel for the defendants in error have
endeavoured to -sustain this (pinion by a construction of the statute of" limitations of Kentucky.
They contend, that after the statute has begun to
run, it stops, if the title passes to a-person under any
legal disability, and recommences after such disability shall be removed. This construction, in the opinion of this court, is not justified by the words of the
statute. Its language does not vary essentially fiom
the language of the statute of James, the construetion of which has been well settled; and it is to be
construed as that statute. and all other acts of liwi1816.

'

'to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tation founded on it, have been construed. This
court is, therefore, of opinion, that there is error in
the instruction given by the circuit court to the jury
en the third prayer of the plaintiff in error.0
It has been contended by the counsel for the plaintiff, that there is also error in the judgment rendered
against Joseph Day by default; but of his case the
court can take no notice, as he is not one of the
plaintiffs in error, and the judgment rendered
against him is not before us. The judgment must
be reversed for error in the directions of the court
to the jury on the third point, on which instructions
,'ere given.
JUDGMENT.
This cause came on to be heerd on the
transcript of the record, from the circuit court for the
district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof this court is of opinion, that
there is error in the proceedings and judgment of the
circuit court in this, that the judge thereof directed
the jury that the tenants in possession could not connect their adverse possession previous to the date of
the patent under which they claimed with their adverse possession subsequent thereto, but in the
length of time. which would bar the action could
compute that only which had passed subsequent to
the emanation of their grant. Wherefore, it is considered by the court, that the judgment of the cir-

a Vide 4 7T. .. 300. Doe, ex tem. Durouse, v. .ones,
VOL. ,P

1816.
Walden

v.
The Heirso
Gratz.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

298
816.

cult court be reversed and annulled, and that the

cause be reiianded to the circuit court, with direct
tIarrison. tiois to award a new trial thferein.
"The

"udgment reyersed.

(PRIZE.)

The HarriSon.-HERBERT, Clairant,
if the national 'character of property, captured and brought in kx
adjudicatioi., appears ambiguous or neutral, and no claim is inter.
posed, the cause is postponed for a year and a day 4fter the prize

proceedings are commepeed; and if no claimant appears withig
that time, the property is condemned to the captors.
Yu prize causes this court has an appellate jurisdiction only, and a
claim cannot for the first time be interposed here; but where the
court below had proceeded to adjudication before the above period
had elapsed, the cause was remanded to that court, with directions
to allow a claim to be filed therein, and the libel to be amended, &c.

APrV.AL from the circuit court for the district of

Maryland. The libel filed by the captors, in this
case, in the district court, alleged, that the goods for
-which condemnation was sought, were captured and

taken put of a Spanish vessel. No claim was filed
for the goods in either otf the courts below. But,
upon'the hearing, the district court dismissed the

libel, upon the ground, that the property, to whomwoever belonging, was protected by the 15th article

