112

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

The
Venus.

(PRIZE.)

I'ie

VenUS.-JADEMEROWSKY, Claimat,

A case of farthet proof.

APPEAL from, the decree of the circuit court -for
the district of Georgia. This ship having taken in
a cargo at Londqn, proiceeded to Portsmouth, and
from thence, on the 12th of'April, 1814, sailed for
St. Bartholomews, under convoy of a' British ship
of war. From St. Bartholomews she sailed for
the Havannah, bui on her passage thither -was captured and sent into the island of St. Thomas, tbr ac-

judication, by a British cruiser.

Upon being re-

leased from this detention, she abandoned'her destination for the Havannah, and was proceeding to
Amelia Island, when she -was captured by the flotilla
under the command of commodore Campbell, and sent
into the port o Savannah, where the vessel and cargo
were libelled as prize. The ship was restored by consent, in the court below, as, Russian property; the
cargo was condemned as prize of war, and an appeal
entered from thAt sentence by the claimant. The
proofs of property consisted, 1. Of i recital in a
power of attorney, from one Jones, the alleged agent,

in London, of the claimant, (who was stated to be a
Russian merchant domiciled at'St. Petersburib,)

to Mr. Diamonid, the supercargo.

2. A' certificate,

of property from the Russian Consul General ir

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i-V

London. 3. The testimony of Mr. Diamond, and
816.
other witnesses, taken in preparatorio, expressing a, The '

itheir belief that the property was as claimed..
Charleton, for the appellant and claimant, bffered
to read affidavits in the nature of faither proof
STORY, J. Until the cause is heard, farther proof
cannot be admitted.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. If, u* 6n the opening, it appears to be a case for farther proof, then it miy i
adi-.iitted instanter, unless, indeed, the court should
be of the opinion that the captors ought to be allowed to produce farther proof also. The cause ip before us as if in the inferior court,
Charleton. We contend that it is a case entitled

to farther proof, and that there is no'circumstance
of fraud oT' mala fides to preclude it.
The A.ttorney Gtneral, contra.

It is incumbent

ipon the 'claimant to make out his title by. competent testinlony, according to the rules of the 'prize
court; and if the cou'rt sho~lld be of opinion, that
the property does not belong. as claimed, the captors will be entitled to conddmnation, without specifically proving.to whom it does belong." The recital
in the power from Jones to Diamond, cannot be sufficient to show the interest of' Mr. Jademerowsk-.
a I Rob. 227. The Odin.
VOL. .

3 .Rob. 68.
P

The Neptumi.t

'Venus;

CASES IN THE SUPREME.COURT

The recital in a deed binds only the parties, and
~ those claimihg under it: we are entitled to the proThe
Venus.
duction of the original power, duly authenticated.b
The certificate of the Russian consul general is no
proof of the real property.c The failure on the
part of the supercargo to testify, positively, as to
the property, is, in the prize court, always held
strongly.against the title of the claimant. The cargo
was purchased and loaded in a British port, and the
ship had an alternative destination to a British colony.
The. voyage is different from that authorized in the
original power frolin Mr. Jademerowsky to Jones ;
and, therefore, such power either never existed, or it
is falsifiedby the evidence, and must be repudiated by
the court.
1816.

Pinkney, in'reply, agreed that, in a suspicious
case, restitution could not be demanded upon the original evidence;. but, this is a case of farther proof,
and there is no evidence of fraud, or unneutral conduct, to preclude It. The documentary evidence expresses neulral account and risk. By the law of
nations, the papers must be supported by the examinations inprepardtorio; but, there is no determination which warrants the position, that the supercargo
must swear to any thing more than belief. He is, in
this respect, in the same predicament with the master. In both cases, it is matter, not of positive knowledge, but of inference from the circumstances which
b I Rob. 133. The Argo.

d I Rob. 68;

The Neptunus.

'c I Rob. 19. The Endraught.

OF THE UNITED. STATES.

dome to his knowledge. The consular certificate is 1816.
a part of the ship's papers, and, as such, is necessa- Preston
rily a part of the documentary evidence•"in.""Browder.
the cause.
V.
The recital of the procuration is said not to be admissible at common law;, but, this court-is now sitting as a court of prize.
The cause was this day ordered to farther proof,
on the part of thecaptors and claimants.
Farther proof ordered.

(LOCAL" LAW.)

PRESTON v. BROWDER.
The Act of Assembly of North Carolina, of November, 1777, establishing offices for receiving entries of claims for lands in the several
counties of the state, did not authorize'entries for lands within the
Indian boundary, as defined by the treaty of the Long Island of Holston, of the 20th of July, 1777. The Act of April, 1778,is a legislative declaration explaining and amending the former Act, and no,
title is acquired by an entry contrary to these laws.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of East
Tennessee. This was an action of ejectment commenced by the plaintiff in error in that court. On
the trial 6f" the cause. the plaintiff produced and
read in evidence an entr, made on the 25th of Feb-

March 2d,

