OF THE UNITED STATES.

2 3
1816.
Welch
V.

(COMMON LAW.)
WELCH V. MANDEVILLE.
A nominal plaintiff suing'for the benefit of his assignee, cannot, by a
dismissal of the suit under a collusive agreement with the defendant, create a valid bar against any subsequent. suit tor the same

cause of action.
ERROR to the circuit court fur the district of Columbia ior Alexandria county. This was an action of
covenant brought in the name of Welch (forthe use
of Piior) against Mandeville and Jamieson. The suit
abated as to Jamieson by a return of no inhabitant.
The defendant, Mandeville, filed two pleas. The
second plea, upon which the question in this court
arises; states, that, on the 5th of July, 1806, James
Welch impleaded Mandeville and Jamie.son, in the

circuit court of the istrict of Columbia, for the county.

of Alexandria, in an action of covenant, in which suit
such proceedings were had, that, afterwards, to wit,
at a session of the circuit court, on the 31st day of
December, 1807, "the said James Welch came into
court and acknowledged that he would- not farther
prosecute his said suit, and from thence altogether
withdraw himself." The plea then avers, that the
said James Welch, in the plea mentioned, is the same
person in whose name the present suit is brought,
and that the said Mandeville and Jamieson, in 'the
former suit, are the same persons who are defenda
VoL,I.

2 G

CASES IIT THg SUPR1EM., COURT

234
1g16.

ants in this suit, and that the cause of action is the

Welch

same in both suits.

Wec

To this plea the plaintiff filed a

special replication, protesting that the said James

Mfandevile. Welch did not pome into court and acknowledge

ot farther prosecute the said suit and
that lie would -from thence altogether withdraw himself; and avers
that James Welch, being indebted to Prior, in more
than 8,707 dollars and 9 cents, and Mandeville and
Jamieson being indebted, by virtue of the ,covenant
in the declaration mentioned, in 8,707 dollars and 9
cents, to Welch, he, Welch, on the 7th of September, 1799, by an equitable assignment, assigned to
Prior, for a full and valuable consideration, the said
8,707 dollars and 9 cents, in discharge of the said
debt, of which assignment the replication avers Mandeville and Jamieson had notice. The replication
farther avers, that the suit in the plea mentioned
was brought in the name of Welch, as the nominal
plaintiff for the use of Prior, and that the defendant,
Mandeville, knew that the said suit was brought, and
was depending for the use and benefit of the said
Prior; and that the said suit in the plea mentioned,
without the authority, consent, or knowledge of the
said Prior, or of the attorney prosecuting the said
suit, and without any previous application to the
court, was " dismissed, agreed." The replication
farther avers, that the said James Welch was not
authorized by the said Prior to agree or dismiss the
said suit in the plea mentioned; and that the said Joseph Mandeville, with whom the supposed agreement for the dismissal of the said suit was made,
knew, at the time of making the said supposed agree-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'236

ment, that the said James Welch had no authority
from Prior to agree or dismiss said suit. The re.plication farther avers, that the said agreement and
dismissal of the said suit were made and procured
by the said Joseph Mandeville, with the intent to injure and defraud the said Prior, and deprive him of
the benefit of the said suit in the plea mentioned.
The replication also avers, that the said Prioi did
not kriow that the said suit was dismissed until after
the adjournment of the court at which it was dismissed ; and, farther, that the supposed entry upon
the record. of the court in said suit, that the plaintiff voluntarily came into court and acknowledged
that he would not farther prosecute his said suit, and
from thence altogether withdraw himself, and the
judginent thereupon was made and entered by covin,
collusion, and fraud; and that the said judgment
was, and'is, fraudulent. To this replication the defendant filed a general demurrer, and the replication
was overruled. It appeared by the record of the
suit referred to in the plea, that the entry is' made in
these words: "This suit is dismissed, agreed," and
thatthis entry wasmade by. the clerk without the
order of the court, and that there is no judgment of
dismissal rendered by the court, but only a judgment
refusing to reinstate the cause.
The cause was argued by Lee, for the plaintiff,
and Swann, for the defendant.
J., delivered the opinion of the court.
The question upori these pleadings comes to this,
whether a nominal plaintiff, suing for the benefit of
STORY,

is16.
Welch
Maiue

March 11t,

230
1816.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

his assignee,.can, by a dismissal of. the suit under a
agreement with the defendant, create a va-

Scollusive

Welch

0

bar against any subsequent suit for the same
3fandclV. lse. lid
cause
of action.

Courts of law, following inthis respect the rules
of equity, now take notice of assignments of choses
in action, and exert themselves to afford them every
support and protection not inconsistent with the established principles and modes of proceeding which
gcvern tribuhals acting according to the course of
the common law. They will not, therefore, give
effect to a release procured by the defendant under
a covenous combination with the assignor in fraud of
his assignee, nor permit the assignor injuriously to
intcrfere with ihe conduct of any suit commenced
by his assignee to enforce the rights which passed
under the assignment. The dismissal of the former
suit, stated in the pleadings in the present case, was
certainly not a reraxit; and if it had been, it would
not have availed the parties, since it was procured
by fraud. Admitting a dismissal of a suit, 'by
agreement, to be a good bar to a subsequent suit,
(on which we give no opinion,) it can be so only
when it is bona fide, and not for the purpose of defeating the rights of third persons. It would be
strange indeed, if parties could be allowed, under
the protection of its forms, to defeat the whole objects and purposes of the law itself.
It is the unanimous opinion of the court, that the
judgment of the circuit court, overruling the replicaton to the second plea of the defendant, is errone-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ous, and the same is reversed, and the cause remanded f6r farther proceedings..

237
1816.
Welch
V.

Judgment reversed.a
a By the common law, choses in
action were not assignable, except to the crown. The civil law
considers them as, strictly speaking, not assignable; but, by the
invention of a fiction, the Roman
jurisconsults conirived to attain
The creditor* who
this -object.
wished to transfer his right of action to another person, constituted
him his attorney, or procuratorin
rem suam, as it -was called; and
it was stipulated that the action
should be brought in the name of
the assignor, but for the benefit
and at the expense of the assignee.
Pothier de Vente, No.
550. After notice to the debtor,
this assignment operated a complete cession of the debt, and invalidated a payment to any other
person than the assignee, or a release from any other person than
him. lb. 110. 554. Code .Napoleon, liv. 3. tit. 6. De la
Vente, c. 8. s. 1690. The court
of chancery, imitating, in its usu.l spirit, the civil law in this par-

ticular, disregarded the rigid
strictness of the common law, and
protected the rights of the assigilee of chuses in action. This
liberality was at last adopted by
the courts of common law, who
now consider an assignment of a
chose in action as substantially
valid, only preserving, in certain
cases, the form of an action commenced in the name of the as.
signor, the beneficial interest and
control of the suit being, however, considered as completely
vested in the assignee as procura.
for in rem suam. See 4 T. B?.
340. Master v. Miller. I Johns.
C. 411. Andrews v. Beecker. 3
Johns. C. 242. Dates v. New1
York Insurance Company,
Johns, R. 532. Wardell v. Eden,.
in nolis. 3 Johns. R. 426. Car11 Johns. R. 47.
ver v. Tracy.
4 Johns.
Raymond v. Squire.
R. 406. Van Vechten v. Greves.
12 Johns. R. 276. Westor v
Barker.

Mandeville.

