CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

382
1816.
"
Commercen

benefits of it to the individual, without ever resorting
to compulsory or restrictive process upon the state
tribunals; a right which, I repeat again, congress
has not asserted, nor has this court asserted, nor does
there app--ar any-necessity forasserting.
The remaining points in the case being mere

questions of practice, I shall make no remarks upon
them.
Judgment affirmed.

(PRIZE.)

The Comrwrcen.-LlNDGR .

Claimant.

Provisions, heutral property, but the growth of the enemy's country,
and destined for the supply of the enemy's, military or naval forces,
are contraband.
Provisions, neutral property, and the growth of a neutral country,
destined for the general supply, of human life in the enemy's country, are not contraband.
Freight is never due to the neutral.carrier of contraband.
Qucsre, in what cases the vehicle of contraband is confiscable ?
A neutral ship, laden with provisions, enemy's property, and the
growth of the enemy's country, specially permitted to be exported
for the supply of his forces, is not entitled to freight.
It makes no difference in such a case, that the enemy is carrying on a
.distinct war, in conjunction with his allies, who are friends of the
captor's country, and that the provisions are intended for the supply
of his troops engaged in that war, and that the ship in-which they
axe transported belongs to subjects of one of those allies.

APPEAL

from the circuit court for the district of

Massachusetts.

This was the case of a Swedish

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vessel captured on the 16th of April, 1814, by the
-816.
private armed schooner Lawrence, on a voyage 'from
The
Limerick, in Ireland, to Bilboa, in Spain. The car- Commercen.
go consisted of barley and oats, the property of
British subjects, the exportation. of which is generally prohibited by the British government; and, as
well by the official papers of the 'custom-h6use, as
by the private letters of' the shippers, it appears to
have been shipped under the special permission of
the government, for the sole use of his Britannic majesty's forces then in Spain. Bonds were accordingly given for the fulfilment of this object. At the
hearing in: the district court of Maine, the cargo was
condemned as enemy's property, and the vessel restored, with an allowance, among other things, 'of
the freight for the voyage, according to the stipulation of the charter-party. The captors appealed
from so much of the sentence as decreed freight to
the neutral ship ; and, upon the appeal to the circuit
court of Massachusetts, the -decree, as to freight,
was reversed, and from this last sentence an appeal
was prosecuted to this court.
Key, for the appellant and claimants. 1. The general prirfciple of law allows freight to the neutral
carrier of enemy's property. It is incumbent upon
the captors to show, that this case forms an exception to the tule, which they can only do by alleging
this to be an unlawful interposition in the war between the United States and Great Britain; but an
interposition in thib Peninsular war, was not necessarily an interposition in the American war. Were it

384

CASES IN THE SUPREME COtRT

SO, it would follow that the Spaniards and Swedes
1816.
might not trade with the United States, they being
The
Cbmmerceu. the allies of Great Britain; as the prize courts of
"England decide,.that the subjects of an ally cannot
lawfully trade, with the common enemy. Bynkershock puts the case of two powers allied during a
trube, but before enemies

:a

What Would be the si-

tuation.of .neutrbls? If they came to the assistafice
of either, -they miglbt be liable to be treated as enemies by the other. In. the present instance, if the
Pritish fo'rces had been so situated s *thatthey might
operate against the United States as well as '".ran'e,
it would alter the case. But remote and fincertain
consequences cannot be held tq affect the conduct
of neutrals. with illegality. 2. There" is io -iroof or
presumption that. the master khew, the special destination of the cargo. His act cannot be unlawful,
unles .done. knowingly and Wilfully, as in the case of
carrying enemy's despatches, where Sir William
Scott at first went entirely on the ground of the
master's privity; afterwards he adopted a rule more
stridt and severe; but still knowledge was held to
be necessary, and presumed wherever there was a
want of extraordinary diligence on the part of the
master. It is con c'eded'that the onus is on the claimant to show his ignorance of the contents of the
papers concerning the cargo, which, if the present
testimony is not sufficient, may be done upon farther
•proof.
a Q: J. Pub. L. '16. p. 125. of Du Ponceau's Translation.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
[S'rORY, J. Ignorance of themaster was not pretended in the court below.]

385
1816.
Commercen.

Dexter, for the respondents and captors. The
rule, that the neutral carrier of enemy.s property is
entitled to -freight, is a mitigated rule, and Bynkershoek argues with much force against its reasonableness.' But the master, in the present case, is not
entitled to the benefit of it, havingby his conduct,
made himself an enemy, pro hac vice. The principle,
as to the nature of the Spanish- war, was settled
when the court dete:mined that to carry goods to
Lisbon, under a British license, was cause of confiscation. Can a party in a similar predicament be
entitled to freight ? Can a neutral stap.d on any
better ground than a citizen ?' Either the British
troops in the peninsula were enemies or friends ? If
enemies, this is an interppsition which cantiot be permitted to neutrals. Being at war, the British fleets
and armies were hostile in every quarter of the globe.
Where shall the line be drawn to mark when they
became our enemies ? At what period from the
time of their landing in Portugal, until their crossing
the Pyrennees, and embarking at Bordeaux for the
United States ? It is impossible to aid the olerations
of our ene iay in any part of the World, without
strengthening his means of annoying us. The very
men fed by this trade came here to fight us on our
own soil, and to destroy our capital. It is said that
this involves the consequence that we were at wa-r
b Q, J. Pub. C. 14. p. 111. of Du P-mrnean's Translstion.
Vor.. T

3 C

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816,,"The

CThe.

'

with Spain and Portugal; but it depends upon the
councils of every country to judge what acts of hostility shall render it expedient to make war;
it depended on us to be at war with thbe allies of our declared enemy. It is a general rule that it is not unlaWful to carry provisions to a neutral country ; but
if the enemy be there, and thi-articles are destined
for his use, it is unlawful. The whole evidence
povishows that the master knew he was carrying
sions for the supply of the British forces, and his ignorance of the law is immaterial. But even if it
were material, the inflamed rate of freight shows
that he was conscious of the risk he run.
Harper, in reply. The prineiple contended for
by the captors is strictijuris, and extreme in its application to this particular case, where there is northing like moral guilt in the conduct of the master,
who did notintend to interfere in our distinct war.
There is no adjudged case that comes up to this
and freight is refused from analog to the general
principle established by theBritishprize courts as to
neutral interposition in the war. But an interference
in the coasting and colonial, or other privileged trade
of the enemy, and relief to him, is a direct assistance,
and the rule cannotjustly be extended to a remote and
consequential aid not contemplated by the party.
The license cases determined by this court, went on
the groand of an adoption of the enemy character,
and an incorporation with enemy interests; the case
of the Liverpool Packet, determined by the same
learned judge who tried this cause, shows the distinc

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tion between this and the license cases.c

The rule
i816.
of the war of 1756, even supposing it to be well
'
The
established, does not apply to the relative situation Commerren.
of Great Britain and the United States. The former
had hung out no signals of depression.and defeat in
the peninsular war, and required no neutral aid as a
relief from the pressure of her enemies.'
delivered the opinion of the court.
rarch 21t.
The single point now in controversy in this cause
is,
whether the ship is entitled to -the freight for the
voyage. The general rule that the neutral carrier
of enemy's property is entitled to his freight, is now
too firmly established to admit of discussion. But
to this rule there are many exceptions. If the neutral be guilty of fraudulent or unneutral conduct, or
has interposed himself to assist the enemy in carrying on the war, he is justly deemed to have forfeited
his title to freight. Hence, the carrying of contraband goods to the enemy; the engaging in the coasting or colonial trade of the enemy; the spoliation of
papers, and the fraudulent suppression of enemy interests, have been held to affect the neutral with the
forfeiture of freight, and in cases of a more flagrant
character, such as carrying despatches or hostile
military passengers, an engagement in the transport
service of the enemy, and a breach of blockade, the
penalty of confiscation of the vessel has also been inflicted.e By the modern law of nations, provisions
STORY, J.,

c 1 Gallson, 513.
• Vide APPENDIX, note 11.
- Bynk; Quast. J, Pub. c. 14.

1 Rob. 237. The Sarah Christina. lb. 288. The Haase. lb.
296. The Emanuel.

2 Rfb. !01.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

181a.
Themay
The
Commercen

are not, in general, deemed contraband; but they
become so, although the property of a neutral,
on account of the particular situation of The war, or
on account of their destination.f If destined for
the ordinary use of life in the enemy's country they
are not, in general, contraband; but it is otherwise
if destined for niilitary use. Hence, if destined for
the army or navy of the enemy, or for his ports of
naval or military equipment, they. are deemed contraband. Another exception from being treated as
contraband is, where the provisions are the growth
of the neutral exporting country. But if they be the
growth of the enemy's country, and more especially
if the property of his subjects, and destined for enemy's use, there does not seem any good reason f6r
the qxemptioi; for, as Sir William Scott has obserVed, in such case the party has not only goie out of
his way for the supply of the enemy, but he has assisted him by taking offhis surplus commodities.- But
it is argued that, the doctrine of contraband cannot
apply to the present case, because the destination
was to a neutral country; and it is certainly true that
goods destined foi the tise of a neutral country can
never be deemed contraband, whatever may be their
character, or however well adapted to warlike purposes. But if such goods are destined for the direct
lb. 299. The
The Immanuel.
Atlas. 16. 104. The Rising Sun.
4 Rob. 169. The Maddona del
Burso. 3 Rob. 295. The Neutralitat. 2 .Rob. 128. The Wel-

vart. 6 Rob. 420. The Friendship.
f I-Rob. 189. The Jonge Mfargaretha.
g Tbid.

, Ibid.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and avowed use of the enemy s army or navy, we
should be glad to see an authority which countenances this exemption from forfeiture, even though the
property of a neutral. Suppose, in tinge of war, a
British fleet were lying in a neutral port, would it
be lawful for a neutral to carry provisions or muni
tions of war thither, avowedly for the exclusive supply of such fleet? 1'"ould it not be a direct interposition in the war, and an essential aid to the enemy in
his hostile preparations ? In such a case the goods,
even if belonging to a neutral, would have had the
taint of contraband in its most offensive character,
on account of their destination; and the mere interposition of a neutral port would not protect
them from'forfeiture.' Strictly speaking, ho,4ever,
i Articles which are exclusive- boiS et tout ce qui sert A Ia conly useful Aor warlike purposes, are struction,et. l'armdment deb vaisalways contraband, when destined seaux de guerre, les chevaux, &
for the enemy; those of promiscu- les vivres mtmes en cerlaines occaous use, in war and in peace, only sions, ou V'on espere de reduire
become so under. particular cir- rennemi par la faim." . But
cumnstances. Grotius, de J. B. Bynkershoek reasohs against adVattel, 1. mitting into the list of contraband,
ac P. 1. 3. c. 1. s. 5.
3. c. 7. s. 112. Among the latter articles of promiscuous use, and
class are included naval stores th materials out of shich warlike
and provisions; though Vattel articles are formed. 2 J. Pub.
considers naval stores as always 1. 1. c. 10. He, however, states
contraband, whilst he holds that that materials for building ships
provisions only become so under may be prohibited under certain
" Les circumstances. "Quandoque tapeculiar circumstances.
choses q~i sont d'un usage parti- men accidit, ut et navium materia
culier pour la guerre, et dont on prohibeatur, si hostis ea quam
empiche le transport chez l'enne- maxime indigeat, at absque ea
mi s'atpellent marchandises de .co-mmode bellum gerere baud
countrabande. Telles soot les ar- possit. Quum Ordines Generales
rues, Ics munitions de guerre, les in s. 2., edicti contra Lyitanob

1816.
The
Commercen.

390
1816.
Tarise
The

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

this is not a question of contraband; for that can
only when the property belongs to a neutral,

Commercen.
Dec. 31, 1657,iip, juae communi The Evert. But the law .of
pepulorum usu contrabanda cen- France and Spain does not consisentur. Lysitanos juvari vetuis- der provisions as contraband. Orsent, specialiter addunt in s. 3. donnance de la Marine, 1.3. tit. 9.
ejusdem edicti, quia nihil nisi des Prise., art. 11. D'Habrets
marl a Lysitanos metuebant, ne .sobre Las Presas,part 1. c. 10., p.
quis etam. navium materiam iis 136. And Valiu states that, both
advehere vellet, palam sic navium by the law of France and the coma conrabands distincta, sed ob mon law of nations, provisions are
speoialem rationem addita. Ob contraband only where destined
eandem causam navium materia to besieged or blockaded places.
coaqungitur cum instrumentis belli But he asserts that naval stores
in s. 2. d. gdicti contra Anglos were contraband at the time he
Dec. 5. 1652, et in Edicto Ordi- wrote, k1758,) and had been so
num Generalium contra Frances since the beginning of that centu9. Mart. 1689. Sed suntbae ex- ry, which they were not formerly.
ceptiones, quae regulam confirm- Sur I' Ord.lb. Pothier, commentant." So also of provisions, they ingon the same article of the ordiare not, in general, contraband; nance, observes, "A l'4gard des
but if the produce of an enemy's munitions de bouche que des sujets
country, and not destined for the des puissances neutres envoient A
ordinary sustenance of human life, nos ennemies, elles ne sont point
but for military or naval use, they censaes de contrabande, ni par
become contraband, according to consdquent sujettes c onfiseation;
the law of England.. And arti- sauf dans un seul cas, qui est
cles, the growth of the neutral lorsqu'elles sent envoy6es a une
exporting 'country, are not con- place assidgie on bloqu6e." De
By the
traband, though carried in the ves- Propri&t6, no. *104.
sels of another country. 4 Rob. Swedish Ordinance of 1.715, con161. TheAppollo. Andthebe- traband articles are declared to
nefit of the principle is eltended be those ,1 qui peuvent ftre emto maritime countries exporting ploy~es pour la guerre." Tha
the produce of neighbouring in- Danish Ordinance of 1659 (proterior districts, whose produce vided for the subsisting war with
those countries are usually em- Sweden) contains a long list of
ployed in exporting, in the ordina- contraband articles, among which
ry course of their trade. lb. 354. are included naval stores and pre-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

391

and here the property belongd to an enemy, and,
16
therefore, was liable, at all events, tocondemnation.
The
But was the voyage lawful, and such as a neutral Commexrce.
could, with good faith, and without a f6rfeiture, engage in? It has been solemnly adjudged that being
engaged in the transport ser'Vice, or in the conveyance of military persons in his employ, are
acts of hostility which subject the property to confiscation.'
And the carrying of despatches from the
colony to the mother country of the enemy has
subjected the party to the like penalty l And in
these cases, thie fact that the voyage was to a neutral
port was not thought to change the character of the
transaction. The principle of these determinations
was asserted to be that the party must be deewed to
place himself in the service of the hostile state, and
visions. The modern conventional law of nations has genierally
excluded provisions and naval
stores from the list of contraband,
and in all the treaties made by
the United States since they were
an independent power, except in
the treaties with Great Britain.
they are excluded; but the only
treaty now subsisting which con-tains a definition of contraband,
is that of 17195 with Spain, which
embraces the munitions of war
only. The treaty of 1794 with
Great Britain, declares naval
stores, with the exception of unwrought iron and fir planks, to be
contraband, nnd liable to confiscation, and declares that when pro-

visions and other arlicles, lootgenerally contraband, shall b-come
such according to tle ,x.isting
law of nations, they shall he entitled to pre-emption, :with freight to
the carrier. By thb treaty negotiated in 1807, but not ratified,
provisions were omitted in the list
of contraband, and tar, and pitch
(unless destined to a port of naval
equipment) were added to the naval stores excepted in the treaty
of 1794.
k 4 Rob. 256. The Carolina.'
6 Rob. 420.
The Friendship.
/b. 430. The Orozembo.
1 6 Rob. 440. The Atalanta.
Iii0 461. The Constantia. " Note

392

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

assist in warding off the pressure of the war, or II
favouring its offensive projects. Now, we cannot
Commercen-. distinguish these cases, in principle, from that before
the court. Here is a cargo of provisions exported
from the enemy's country, with the avowed purpose
of supplying the army of the ehemy. Withot this
destiriation they would not have been permitted to
be exported at all. Can a *moreimportant or essent.ial
service be performed in favour of the enemy ?
In what does it differ from the -case of a transport in
his service? The property, nominally, belongs to
individuals, and is"
freighted, apparently, on private
account, but, in reality, for public use, and under a
,public contract implied from the very permission of
exportation. It is vain to contend that the direct
effect of the voyagd was not to'aid the Biitish hpstilities against the United States. It might enable
the enemy, indirectly, to operate with more'vigour
and promptitude against us, and increase his disposable-force. But it is not the effect of the pai'ticuJar transact ion that the law regards, it is the general
tendency of such transactions to assist the military
operations of the eiemy, and the temptations which
it presents to deviate from a strict neutrality. Nor
do we perceive how the destination, to. a neutral
port, can vary the application of this rule; it is only
doing that indirectly which is prohibited in direct
courses. Would it be cont~nded that a neutral
might lawfully transport provisions for the British
fleet and army while it lay at Bordeaux preparing for
an expedition to the United States? Would it be
contended that he might lawfully supply a British
1816.

The

OF THE UNI'EED STkATES.

393

fleet stationed, on our coast,. We priesume that two
1816.
opinions could not be entbrtained on sPch questions;
dThe
d
andyet, though the ctases put are str6ng, we do not Coinmercen
know. that the assistance is 'more material than
might be supplied under cover of a neutral destination like the, preserit.'
Ari attempt has been made to distinguish this ease
from the ordinary cises of employment in the transportservice of the enemy, upon the ground that the
war of Great Britain against France Vas ' wvar distinct fiom that against the United States;" and that
Swedish subjects had a perfect'right to 'assist the
British 'armsin respect .othe forner; though not to
ofo the
the latter. Whatever i ight, bt the right
h
bt
In

Swedish sovereign, acting under his own aiiorijy,
we are of opini n that if'a Sx edish vessel be engaged in the actual service ofrGreatVBritain, or in carrying'stores for the ekclusi;e'use 6f tMe British armies, she Pust, to allintents and, purposes, bb deemed a: British transport. It is perfetly immaterial in
what particular enterprise those armies might, at the
time, be engaged; for the same important benefits
are conferred upon an enemy, who thereby acquires
a greater disposable force to bri
int action
against us. In the Friendshi , (6 Rob. 420. 426.,)
Sir W. Scott, speAking on this subject, declares,
"It signifis nothing whether the men, so conveyed,
are to be put into action, on an immediate expedition,
or not. The mere shifting of draughts in detachments, and the conveyance of stores fron" one place to
.another, is an ordinary employment of a transport
vessel, and it is a distinction" totally unimporfant
VOL. !.

3D

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

whether this or that case may be connected with the
" The ' immediate ative service of the enemy. In removing
Commercen. forces from distant settlements, there may be no intention of immediate action, but still the general importance of having troops conveyed to. places where
it is convenient that they should be collccted, either
for present or future use, is what constitutes jhe obis object and employment of transport vessels." ,It
vious that the learned judge did not deen it material
to what places the stores might be destined ; and it
must be equally immaterial what is the immediate
That
occupation of the enemy' military- force.
force is always hostile to us, be it where it may be.
To-day it may act against France, to-morrow,
against us; and. t e better its commissary department, is sapplied, the more life and activity is communicated to all its motions. It is not, therefore, in
our view, material whether there be another distinct
war in which our enemy is engaged, or not: it .s
sufficient that his armies are everywhere our enemies, and every assistance offered to them must, directly, or indirectly, operate to our injury.
On the whole, the court are of opinion that. the
voyage, in which this vessel was engaged, was illicit,
and inconsistent -with the duties of neutrality,- and
that it is a very lenient administration of justice to
confine the penalty to a mere denial of freightu
1816.

as As to the penalty for the car- carrier of cQntraland.

?ying of contraband, see 3 Rob.

There i.

but one case in the books of an ex-

182, pote (a.) Freight and ex- ception to this rule, which was

cloth carried to Amsterpeuscs are almost always refused of sail
the Briish prize courts to a dam, the contraband being nm.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

J. As a pi:inciple, which I think
new, and which may certainly, in future, be very
interesting to the United States, has been decided in
1his case, I trust I may be excused for stating the reasons which have prevented my concurring in the
MAIRSHALL, Ch.

orpinion that has been delivered.

In argument this sentence of the circuit court has
been sustained on two grounds; 1st. That the exsmall quantity amongst a variety
of other article. 3 Rob. 91. The
Neptunus. The penalty is carri-"
cd beyond the refusal of freight
and expenses, and is extended to
the confiscation of the ship, and
innocent parts of the same cargo,
1st. Where the ship .and the contraband articles belong to- the
same person. 1 Rob. 31. The,
lb. 330. The
Staadt Emden.
Young Tobias. 2d. Where the
cargo is tarHied ith a false destination, false papiers, or other
circumstances 'of fraud. 3 Rob.
217. The Franklin. 4 Rob. 69.
The Edward. 5 Rob. 290. The
Richmond. 6 Rob. 125. The
Rangei. 3d. Where the owner
of the ship is bound, by the obligation of treaties between his own
country and the captpring power,
to refrain from carrying contaband to the enemy. 3 Rob. 295.
The Neutralitet. -By the aucient
prize law of France; contraband
goods were subject to pre-emption
only. Ordonnance de 1584., art.
69. The ordinance of 1681, tub-

jectcd the contraband articles oqly to confiscation : but by the regulation of 1778, the same penalty was extended to tHe ship, in
case three fourths of the cargo
consisted of contraband articles.
The law of Iolland confiscates
tht contraband articles only, .but
refuses freight; the prinoiple of
which is vindicated by Bynkershoek. "Idque longe verissimum
est, nam mercedes non debentur,
ilisi itinere perfecto, et, ne perficefetur, hostis jure prohibuit.
Deinde publicantur contrabanda
velex delicto, ct ita nihil commiserunt navarchi, quari ipsi mercium vetitrum domini, vel, quod
magis est, ex re, ex ipsa nimirum
transvectione: quamois enim amico nostro non possimus conimer
cio interdicerb cum hoste nostro,
possumus tamen prohihere, ne in
bello illi prosit in necem nostram.
Atque ita, quod publicatur, publickbitur citra ullum ullius hominis respectum, et habebitur, ac si
divina periisset. extincto sic jure
pignori-."

395
1816.
The
Commercen.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

portafion of grain from Ireland is generally prohibitand, therefore, that a neutral cantiot lawfully
The
Commercen. engage-in it during war. 2d. That the carriage of
supplies to the army of the eneny is to take part
witb him in the.war, and, consequently, to b6come
the enemy of the United States so far as to forfeit
the right to freight.
The first point has been maintained, on its supposed analogies to certain principles which have been,
at different times, avowed by the great maritime and
belligerant pbw'ers of Europe respect;ng the colonial
and coasting trade, and which are.generally' known
in England, and in this country, by the appellation of
the rule of 1756. Without professing to give any
opinion on the correctness of those principles, it is
sufficient to obseive that they do not appear to me to
apply to this case. The rule'of 1756 prohibits a
neutral from engaging in time of war in a trade in
which he was prevented- friom pai'ticipating in ime
of pdapee, because .that trade was, by' law, exclusively reserved, for -the vessels of the hostile state.
This prohibition stands. upon two grounds. 1st.
That a trade, such as the coasting or colodial trade,
which, by the permanent policy of a nation, is reserved for its own vessels, if opeped to neutrals during war, must be opened under the pressure of the
lirms of the enemy, and in order lto obtahi relief from
that pi'tssure. The neutral who interposes to relieve the belligerant under such circumntances,.rescues hia from the condition -to which the arms 6f
nis enemy -has reduced him, restores to him those resources which have ,been wrested' from him' by the
Sed,

OF THE UNITED STATF.

of his adversary, and deprives that adveisary
1816.
of the advantages which successful var has given
The
him. This the opposing belligerant pronounces a Comnrngrcn
departure from neutrality, and an- iintrference iu the
war to his prejudice, which he will not tolerate. 2d,
If the trade be not opened by law, that a neutral
omployed in a trade thus rcserved by the enemy,
to his own vessels, idenfifics himself with that eneiny, and by performing* functions exclusively appertaining to the enemy character, assumes that character. Neither the one Lor the other of these reasons applies to the case under considoration. The
trade was not a trade confined to British vessels
during peace, and opened to neutrals during war
under the pressure created by the arms of the enemy. It was prohibited for political reasons, entirely
unconnected with the interests of navigation, and
fhrown open fi-om motives equally unconnected with
maritime strength. Neither did the neutral employad in it engage in a trade then, or at-any time, reserved for British vessels, and, therefore, dia ijoE
identify himself with them. He was not performing
functions exclusively appertaining to the enemy,
and, consequently, in performing them did not assume that character.
The second point presents a question of -Ruch
more difficulty. That a neutral carrying supplies to
the army of the enemy does, under the mildest interpretation of international law, expose himself to
the loss of freight, is a proposition .oo well settled to
be controverted. That it is a general rule, admitting
of few. if any, exceptions, is not denied by the eouuatrms

398

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sel for the appellants. But they contend that this
case i's withdrawn from that rule by its peculiar
Commercen. circumstances.
The late war between the Uni1816.
The

ted States and Great Britain was declared at 'a
time when all .Eure, including our enemy, was
engaged in a war with which ours had nojconnexion,
and in which we professed to take n6 interest. The
allies of our enemy, engaged with him in a common
war, the rhost tremendous and the mosi ,vitally interesting to the parties that-has ever desol tcd the earth:
were our friends. We kept tip with-them the mutual ,interchange of good offices, and declared our
determination to stand aloof from that cause which
wascommon to them and Great Britain. They, too,
considered this war as entirely distinct from that in
which they were engaged. Although at a most cri'tical period we had attacked their ally, they did not
view it as an-act of hostility to them. They did not
ascribe it to a wish to affect, in any manner, the
war in Europe, but solely to the desire -of asserting
our violated rights. They seemed almost to consider the Britain who was our enemy, as a different
nation from that Britain who was their ally.
How long this extraordinary state of things might
have continued it is impossible to say; but it certainly existed when the Commercen was captured.
What its effect - on'that capture ought to be, must
depend more on principle than on precedent. It has
been said, and truly said, by the counsel for the captors, that we were at war with Great Britain in every part of the Wivorld. We were enemies everywhere. Her troops in Spain, or elsewhere, a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1316.
well as her troops in America, were our encimes.
"
It was a conflict of nation against nation. This
The
ts conceded; and, therefore, the cargo of the Corn- Commrncen.
mercen, being British property, was condemned as
prize of war: But, although this must be conceded, the corollary which is drawn from it, that those
who furnish their armies in Spain with provisions,
aid them to our prejudice, and, therefore, take part in
the war, and are guilty of unneutral conduct, must
be examined before it can be admitted. It .is not
true that every species of aid given to an enemy is
an act of hostility.which will justify our treating him
who gives it, or his vessels, as hostile to us. The history of all Europe, and especially of Switzerland.
furnishes many examAples of the fruth of this proposition. Those examples 'need not be qboted particularly, because they stand on prin6iples not entirely
applicable to this case. It is the -peculiarity of this
war which requires the adoption of rules peculiar to
a new state of things, in adopting which we must
examine the principle on which a nation is justified
in treating a neutral as an enemy. That a. neutral
is friendly to our enemy, and continues to interchange
good offices with him, can furnish no subject of complaint; for, then, all commerce with one. b'elligerant
would be deemed hostile by the other. The effect
of commerce is to augment his resources, and enable him the longer to prosecute the war; but this
augmentation is produced by an act entirely innocent
on the part of the. neutral, and manifesting no hostility to the opposing belligerant. It cannot, therefore, be molested by. him while the same good offices

400

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

are allowed to him., although he may not be enabled
to avail himself of them to an equal degree. It
Commercen would seem, then, that a remote and consequential
effect of an act is -not sufficient to give it a hostile
character; its tendency to aid the enemy in the war
must be direct and immediate. It is also necessary
that it slbduld be injurious to us ; for a mere benefit
to another, which is- not injuriou to usi cannot convert a fi'lend into an enemy.
If these principles be correct, and they are believed to be so, let us apply them to the present
case. When hostilities commenced betWepn the
Uni,ted States and Great Britain, that country was
carrying on a war with France, in which the great
powers of Eut'ope were combined. We-did not expect, and certainly had no right to'expect, that our
declaration of waf against one of the allies would,
in any*manner, affect the operations of their common
war in Europe. The armies of Portugal and Spain
were united to those of .Britain, and unquestionably
aided, and assisted our enemy, btrt they did not aid
and assist him against us, ,and, therefore, did not become our enemies. Had any other of the combined
powers equipped a military expedition for the purpose of reinforcing the armies of Britain in any part
of Europe, or had a new ally engaged in the war, that
would have been no act of hostility against the United States, althoughit would have aided our enemy.
But if a military expedition to the United States had
been undertaken, the case 'would have assumed a
different aspect. Such expedition would be hostile
to this country, and the power underti.kiug it would
1816.
The

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1816.
become our enemy. It would have been an interference operating directly to our prejudice. The declaration of war against Great Bri(ain had, without -Comnercen.
doubt, a remote and consequential effect on -the war
in Europe. Thhforce employed agairsnt the United
States mugt be subducted from that employed in support of the common cause in Europe, or greater exertions must be made which might sooner exhaust
those resources which enabled her to continue her
gigantic efforts in their common war. .Consequentlyi
the declaration of war by the United States remotely
affected the war in Europe, to the advantage of one
party and the injury of the other. Yet no one of the
allies considered this declaration as taking part in
that war, and placing America in the condition of an
enemy. But, had the United S'tates employed their
force gn the periinsula against the British troops, or
had they interfered in tho operations of the common
war, it may well be doubted whether they might not
have been rightfully considered as taking part against
the allies, and'arranging themselves on the Side of
the common enemy.
In answer to arguments of this tendency, made at
the bar, it was said that nations are governed by political considerations, and ma-y choose rather to overlook conduct at which they might justly take
offence, than unnecessarily to increase the number
of their enemies, or provoke increased hostility;
but that courts of justice are bound by the 'law,
and must inflexibly adhere to its mandate. While
this is 'conceded, it is deemed equally true that
those a~ts which will iustify the condemnation of :a
VII.;5

402

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

neutral as an enemy, would also justify the treating
his nation as an enemy, if they were performed orThe
Commercen. defeiided by the nation. There is a tacit compact
tfiat the hostile act of the indlivdual shall not be
ascribed to his government; and that in turn, the
government will not protect the individual from
being treated as an enemy. But if the government
adopts the act of the individual, and supports it by
force, the government itself may be rightfully treated as hostile. Thus contraband of war, though belonging to a neutral, is condemned as the property of
an enemy, and his government takes no offence at
it; but should his government adopt the act, and insist upon the right to carry articles deemed contraband, and support that right, it would furnish just
ground of Nar. The belligerant might choose to
overlook this hostile act, but the- act would be, in its
nature, hostile. The inquiry, then, whether the act
in which this individual Swede was employed, would,
if performed by his government, have been considered an act of hostility to the United States, and
might rightfully be so considered, is material to
the decision of the question, whether the act of the
individual is to be treated as hostile. Great Britain
and Sweden were allies in the war against France.
Consequently, the king of Sweden might have ordered his troops to co-operate with those of Britain,
in any place, against the common enemy. He might
have ordered a reinforcement to the British army on
the peninsula, and this reinforcement might have
been transported by sea. An attempt on the part
of the United States to intercept it, because it was
1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

aiding their enemy, would certainly haVNe been an
interference in the war in Europe which would
have provoked, and would have justified, the resentmerit of all the allied powers. It would have been
an intQrHerence not to be justified -by.our war with
Britain, because those troops were not to be employed against us. If, instead of a reiinfor ejrient of
men, a supply of provisions were to be furnishdd in
that part of the allied army which was British, would
that alter the case ? Could an Americai squadron
intercept a convoy of provisions, or ofmilitary stor-s,
of any description, going to an army engaged in a
war common to Great Britaib and Swcd--n, and not
against the United States ? Could this be done ithout interfering in 'that war, and taking part in it
against all the allies. If it could not, then any supplies furnished by'the gov'ernment of Sweden, promoting the operations of their common war, whether
intended for the British or any 6ther division of the'
allied- armies, had a right to pass' unmolested by
American cruisers. "Itis not believed that any act
which, if performed by the government,'wouldnot
be deemed an act of hostility, is to be' so deemed if
performed by an individual. ITad the provisions
therf on board the Commercen been Swedish property, the result of this reasoning is that it wofAd
not have beei confiscated as prize of war. Being
British property, it is confiscable; but the Swede is
guilty of no other offence than carrying enem-y's property, an offence not enhanced in this particular case
by the character of that property. ie is,,therdfore,
gs much entijtled to fieight as if his cargo had been

40:3
1816.
Tbe
Cominrt~en.

404

1816.
The

CASES IN THE SUPREDIE COURT

of a dillirent description. His trade was not more
illicit than the carriage of enemy's goods for corn-

Coifimercen. mol use

would have been.

If the cases in which ncutrails have been condemned for having ol board articles, the transportation
of which clothe them with the enemy character, be

attentively considered, it is believed that they will
not be found to contravene the reasoning which 'has
been urged. To darry despatches to the government has been cbnsidered as an act 'of such com-

plete hostility, as to communicate the hostile character to the vessel carrying them. But this decision was made in a case where the -despatches could
only relate to the war between the government of
tile captors, and that to which the despatches were
addressed. [hey were communications between a
colonial government, in danger of being aliacked,
and the mothier country. In. a subsequent -case, it
was determined that a neutral vessel might bear de-

spatches to a hostile government without assuming
the belligerant character, if they were fr6m an ambassador residing in the neutral state. Yet such
despatches might contaiai in telligence material to. the
war. But thib is a case in which the belligerant
right to intercept all communications addressed to
the enemy, by the officers of that enemy, is modified
and restrained by the neutrat right to protect the
diplomatic communications which are necessary to
the political intercourse between belligerants and
neutrals. It is a case in which the right of the belligerant is narrowed. and controlled by the positive
rights of a neutral; still more reasonably may they

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be narrowed and controlled by:the positive rights of 1836.
a belligerant engaged in a war in which we have no
The
concern, and in which we ought riot to interfere. Ct:jwrr.
To transport troops, or military persoris, belonging
to the enemy, from one place'to another, has, also,
been' determined to subject th6 vessel to condemnation; but, in those cases, the service in which it was
supposed the persons, so conveyed, were to be employed, was against the government of the captors.
The transportation of these persons was to aid the
views of one belligerant against the other, and was,
therefore, to take part in the war against that other.
It is an act, the operation of which is direct and immediate.
It may be said that this -reasoning would' go to the
protection of British troops passing to the peninsula,
and of British supplies transported in British vessels
for their use; that it therefore proves -loo much,
and must, consequently, be unsound.
It is admitted that, pressed to its extrene point,
the argument would go this vxtent, an extent which
cannot be maintained; but it does not follow -that it
is unsound in every stage of its progress. In every
case of conflicting rights, each must yield something
to the other. The pretensions of neither party can be
carried o the extreme. They meet-they checkthey lirit each other. The precise lie which
neither can pass, but to which each may advance, ii,
not easily to be found and marked; yet such a lin.
must exist, whatever may be the difficulty of discerniug it. To attack an' enemy, or to take his proper.
ty, if either can be done withow violatinn' the. covr

40U

CAbES IN TIJE SUPRE3"/ COURT

reignty of a friend, is of the very essence of' war.
None can be offended at the exercise of' this right,
The
('ommercen. who may not be offended at the declaration of war
itself. The injury which the allies of our enemy,
in a war common to them, (but in which we are not
engaged,) sustain, by this occasional interruption, is
incilental, while, on our part, it is the exercise of a
direct )nd essential right. But when we attack -a
friend who is carrying on military operations conjointly with our enemy, but not against us, we are not
making direct war, but are using those incidental
rights which war gives us, against those direct rights
which are exercised by a belligerant not our enemy,
and which constitute war itself. In either case it
would seem to me that the incidental must yield to
the direct and essential right.
Upon this view of the subject, I have at length,
not, it is confessed, without difficulty, come to the
conclusion, that the Commercen, being a Swedish
vessel, whose nation was engaged in a war, common
to Great Britain and Sweden, against France, and to
which the United States were not a party, might convey military stores for the -use of the British armies
engaged in that war, as innocintly as she could carry
British property of any other description, and is,
therefore, as much entitled to freight as she would
be had the property belonged to the enemy, but
been destined for ordinary use.
1616.

J. I concur in the opinion of the
Chief Justice. Considering Sweden an ally of Great
Britain, in the war which the latter was carrying on
LIvINGSTON,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in the peninsula, eitherthe king of Sweden himself
1816.
might send transports with provisions for the use of
The
the British army, while engaged in any common en- Commercen.
terprise, or his subjects might lawfuIlll aid in such
transportation, without a violation of their neutral
character as it regarded the United States.
If
the American government had asserted the right of
capturing and condemning Swedish vessels, or depriving them of their freight, on the ground on
which it has been denied to the Commercen, I am
not certain that Sweden would not have thought it
a very serious aggression, and would not have had a
right to consider it, if persisted in, as an act of hostility.
J'Oi, 5SON, J. I also concur in the opinion, of the
Chief Justice; and I do it without the least doubt or
hesitation. Sweden was an ally in the *var going on
inthe peninsula, and her subjects had an indubitable
right to transport provisions in aid of their nation, or
its allies. The owner, therefore, had a right to his
fieight; for he did no act inconsistent with our belligerant rights, while in the direct and ordinary exercise of those rights which a state of war conferred
n himself.
Sentence of the circuit court affirmed.

