CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
t818.
The
Octavia..

(INSTANCE COURT.)

The Ship OviVia.--N\cHoLLs .el al., Ciaimanwa
A question of fact under the Non-Intercourse Act of the 28th oE
June, 18C9.
APPEAL

from the decre6 of the circuit court foz

the'Massachusetts district, affirming the decree of
the district court, condemning said vessel.
This ship was seized in the port of Boston; in October, 1810; and the information alleges, that the
ship, in March, 1810, departed fiom Charleston'.

S. C., bound for a foreign port, to wit, Liverpool in
Great Britain, with a cargo of merchandise on board,
without a clearance, and without having given the
bond required by the. Non-Intercourse Act of tho
28th of June, 1809, ch.. 9. s. 3. The claimants admitted, that the ship proceeded with her cargo (which
consisted of cotton and rice) to Liverpool; but they
alleged, that the ship originally sailed from Charfeston, bound to Wiscasset, in the District of Maine,
with an intention there to remain, until the Non-Iitercourse Act should be repealed, and then to proceed to Liverpool. That by reason of bad wind,
and weather, the ship was retarded in hei voyage.
and on the 10th of May, 18310, while still bound to
Wiscasset, she spoke with a ship from New-York,
and was informed of ihe expiration of the Non-Inter,ourse A ct, and thereupon changed her coursc, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

21

procbeded to .Liverpool. The manifest states the
1816.
cargo to :have been shipped by sundries, consigned ' The
to Mr. P. Gr'ant,. Boston.
oetavii
The /ttorney General and Law argued the case
for the appellees on the facts, ind cited the case of
the Waspa which was an information under the same
section of the same act They, contended,. that- the
burthen of proof was thrown upon the claimant, inasmuch as the law requires a bond to be given,, if
the ship was bound to a port then. permitted, conditioned that she should not go to a prohibited port.
Dexter, for the appellants, and' claimants, stated,
that the suit was not founded on the same act with that
in the ease of the Samuel ;' but that the same objection existed as to the form of the process. It is true,
he .Judiciary Act of the 24th of September,. 1789,
c. 20. s. 9., has declared, that certain causes shall be

causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, but it
does not, therefore, follow, that a forfeiture created
by a new statute shall be enforced by the same process. The arguments urged against it in the cases
subsequbnt to that of the Vengeance,c have always
been answered by the 'mere authority of that case.
But the decision in that case ought to be re-examined,
because.it affects the 'right of trial by jury, and because the argument was very imperfect. The word
"including," in the judiciary act, ought to be construed .cumulatively. It pro,ides, that the district
., . I Ga/!irn,140.

4 ,qnfp. p..P

. .5 DalI. 97.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
'Y

The

Octaia.

courts shall "have exclusive original cognizance f"
all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
including all seizures under laws of impost, navigation, or trade, of the United States, where thie seizures
are made on- waters which are navigable from the
sea by vessels of ten or more tons burthen, within
their respective distriqts, as well as upon the high
seas," &c. Thd presumption' arising from'the collective use of debt, informati6n, and indictment, in the
Non-Intercourse Act, is, that thdy relate to a cbmmq..
law jurisdiction. Thie word information cannoi be
synonymous with libel, because the first is a common'
law, the second a civil law proceeding. A common
law prbceeding may be applied: by statute'to admiralty suits. The'statute 28th H6nry VIII. c. 1".
prescribes a common law process (indictment) fox
offences triable in the admiralty.
[STORY,

J. That was the high.cor'missioDa court.2

Dexter answered, that he was aware of it; but that
a suit may be a cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and yet triable by common law processd
d Before the statute 28th Henry VIII. c. 15., the admiralty had a
v'ery extensive criminal jurisdiction, which seems to have been
coeval with the very existence of
the trib.tinal, in which it proceed.

upon delivered by the admiral or
his lieutenant, to the marshal of
the court, or the sheriff. See
Clerk's Praxis, loughton's Artides cited therein, 122. note. c.
16, 17.
Exton, 32. Selen dp

ea according to the civil law, and
other its own peculi* codbs; but
by the process of indictment found
by a grand jury, and a capias there-

Dominio faris,L1. 2. c. 24. p.
209. 4 Rob, 73. Note (a) The
Rucker. 'this criminal jurisdictiont, independent of statutes, still

O

THE IUNITED STATES.

J., delivered the opinion of the court.
This case depends on a mere question of fact.
SToRY,

1816.

After a careful examination of the evidence, the majo-

Octavia.

rity. of the court are of opinion, that the decree of
the circuit couft gught to be affirmed. It is deeimed
unnecessary to enter into a for hal statement of the
grounds of this opinion, as it is principalli founded
bpon the same reasonilig which was adopted by the
circuit court in the decree wvhich is spread before us
inthe transcript of the record

Feb. 13th.

Decree affirmed with costs."
exists; qncd all offences within itf
which are not otherwise provided
•for bi positive law,are punishable
by fine and imprisonment. See 4
Black. C .m. 263. Brown's Cir.
,. adm. :aw,Appelidix, No. I I.'
The statute 28thi- nry VIII. c.
15., provides, that all treason§,
felonies, &c., onthe seas, or where
ifie admiral ha. "jurisdiction, &c.
shall he tried, &c., in the realrn,
as if done on land; and commis.sions'underthe great seal shall'be
directea i the admiraror his lieutenant, and three or four others
&c.,.to hear and determine such
offences, after the course of 'he
laws of this land for like offinces
done in the iealm. -And the jury
shall be of the shire within the
commission. Stat. 3Sd Geo.IIL c.
66.
Under this provision the
sessions at the Old Bailey are
now held. at whieh Ihe jndge

of the High Court, of Admiralty
presides, and common law judges
are ihcluded in the commission.
But it is held, that this statute does
not alter the nAture of the offence,
which shall still be dtermined by
theciyjjlawbutthemanneroftrial
only. (Hale'sP.C. 3 Inst. 112.)
c As the opinion of the court.
below is referred tofor the grounfs
upon which its decree Was affirmed, it may se"em fit here'tb intert
so much of that opiniob as develops the principles and rules of
evidence applied by the court in
cases of this nature.
After stating the facts of this
case, the learned judge proceeds v
"Since I lave had the honour to
iit irt
this c6urt I have prescribed
to tyselfcertain rules, by the apl
plication of wlich, my judgment,
in cases of this natnre, has been

-24
1816.
The
Qctavia.

(IASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
uniformly governed. 1st. Where
the claimants assume the ona
probandi(as "they do in this case)
not to acquit the property, unless
the defence be proved beyond a
2d. If the
reasonable doubt.
evidence of the claimants be clear
and precisely in point, not to indulge in vague and indeterminate
suspicions, but to pronounce* an
acquittal, unless that evidence be
clouded with incredibility, or encountered by strong presumptions
of mata rides, from the 9ther cirHe
cuistances of the case."
alscfalludes to the absence of documentary evidence to support
the defence-set up by the claimtle
ants as affording an example .,f
application of these rules, as well
as of another rule equally important. "What strikes me as decisive against the defence is the
entire absence of all documents respectingthb cargo. Bills oflading,
letters bf advice, or general orders, must have existed. If the
cargo had been destined for Boston only, there would not have
been so much difficulty. But the

defence shows its destination ultiWhere,
mately fdr Liverpool.
then, is the contract of affreightmeat, the bills of lading, the letters of advice, and the correspondcuce of the shippers, or of Mr. P.
Grant? Can it be credible that,
without any authority, the master,
or part owner of the ship should,
on their own responsibility, havr
gone to Liverpool, without orders
or consignment ? That from a mere
vague knowledge of thfe wishes of
the shippers, they should place at,
imminent risk the whole property, without written authority tb
colour :heir proceedings? There
must have beenpapers. They are
not produced.. The affidavits of
the phippers, of Mr. Grant, Qf the"
consignees in, England, are not
produced. What must be the
conclusion from this general silence? It must be, thatif produced,
they would not support the asserted defenc-. At least, such is tle
-judgment that both the common
lpw and the admiralty law pronounces in cases of suppression of
evidence."

