CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

300
1816.
Harden

V.
Fisher.

parties who have litigated in the court below. We
are all, therefore, of opinion that this cause ought to
be remanded to the circuit court, with directions to
allow the claim to be filed in that court; and, also,
to allow the libel to be amended so as to conform to
the general allegation of prize, and enable the captors to obtain condemnation of the property, if the
asserted claim shall not be sustained, and the property shall not appear entitled to the protection of the
Spanish treaty.
Case remanded.'
a Vide ArPErNix,

note II.

(COM MON LAW.)

HfARDEN v. FISHER ET AL.

Under the

9th article of the treaty of 1794, between the United States
and Great Britain, by which it is provided that British subjects,
holding lands in the United States, and their heirs, so far as respect
those lands, and the remedies incident thereto, should not be considered as aliens; the parties must show that the title to the land
for which the suit was .commenced was in them, or their ancestors,
at the time the treaty was made.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of NewYork. This case was argued, with great learning
and ability, by Hoffman, for the plaintilT in error,
and defendant in ejectment, and by Stockton for the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

defendants in error, and plaintiffs iu ejectment. .*ut
as the court gave no judgment upon the. points discussed, the argument has been omitted. •
MARSHALL,

1816.

H ar
V.

Fisher.

Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the March loth

court.
This is an action of ejectient, brought by the defendants in error, in the circuit court for the district
of New-york, to recover certain lands, which they
claim as the heirs of Donald Fisher, deceased. A
special verdict was found in the case, which shows that
Donald Fisher was a British subject, residing in the
city of New-York, and departed this life in the,/year
1798, leaving the lessors of the plaintiffs in ejectment his heirs- at law, who are, also, British subjects.
The plaintiffs, being thus found to be British subjects, are incapable of maintaining an action for real
estate in the state of New-York, unless they are enabled to do so by the 9th article of the treaty between the United States and Great Britain, made in
the year 1794, which provides that British subjects,
holding lands in the United States, and their heirs,
so far as respects those lands, and the legal remedies incident thereto, should not be considered as
aliens. To a ail themselves of this treaty, the lessors of the plaintiff below must show that their ancestors held the lands for which this suit was instituted, at the time when it was made. The court
does not mean to say that they must show a seisin
in fact, or an actua.I possession of the land, ,but that
the title was in him at the time. This must be

302
1816.
'

Hiarden

V.

lzsher.

CASES IN THE SUPREI 1

COURT

shown in order to bing the case within the protec,
tion afforded by the treaty.

The jurors find that Donald Fisher was, on the
1st day of January in the year 1777,, seised in his
demesne, as of fee, of the lands and tenegients in the
declaration mentioned, and was in the actual.possession thereof, and continued so seised and possessed,
until the rendering the judgment herein after mentioned.
On the 17th day of April, in the year 1780, the
grandjury, for the county of Charlotte, in the state
of New-York, found an indictment, stating 'that Donald Fisher (who is the ancestor, under whom the
lessors of the plaintiffs claim) did, on the 14th day
of July, in the year 1777, voluntarily, with force and
arms, adhere to the enemies of the state. The retord proceeds to state, that "the said Donald Fisher
having, according to the form of the act of the Legislature, entiled ' at act for the forfeiture and' sale
of the estates 6f-persons vho have adhered to the
etnemies of.the state,' &c. been notified to appear
and ;traverse the said indictment, and not having
appeared and traversed within the time, and in the
manner in and by the said act limited and required,
it is, therefore, considered that the said Donald
Fisher do forfeit all and singular the estate, both real
and personal, whether ; possession, reversion, or remainder, had or claimed by him in this state." This
judgment'was signed on the 29th day'of December,
1783, and is'the judgment referred to in the special
1verdict, as herein' before mentioned. Under these
proceedings the lands in the declaratio:0 mentioned

OF THE UNITED STATES.3

303

116.
were sold, and the defendants, in the court below,
hold under that sale.
Hardon
V.
There are other points raised in the special verFisher.
unnecessabc
will
it
but
dict, and urged by counsel;
ry to notice them, and the court does not mean to
give any opinion on them. The court gave judgment for the plaintiffis below, and that judgment is
now before this court on a writ of error.
- It is contended by the defendants in error that
this judgment having been rendered subsequent to.
the treaty of peace of 1783, and in direct repugnance thereto, is not merely voidable, but absolutely
void. By the plaintiffs it is alleged to be voidable
only.
This couft cannot now decide that question. The
verdict does not find that Donald Fisher held his
title until the treaty of 1794 was made, and although
nothing is found to show that he has parted with it,
yet the court Cannot presume that he did not part
with it. The verdict ought to have shown that the
title was in Donald Fisher when the treaty was made,
and oantinued in hipm to the time of his death. For
this essential defeci, the verdict is too imperfect to
enable the coprt-o decide on the case. The judgment of the circuit court must, *therefore,be rever8ed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directiQns to award a. venirefaciasde novo.
JUDOMENT.

This cause came on to be heard on

the transcript Of the record of the circuit court for
the district of New-York, and was argued by coun-

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

304

1816.
H
Harden

v.
3Fsher.

sel; all which being considered, this court is of opinion that there is error in the judgment of the circuit court for the, district of New-York, in this, that
the said court ought not to have rendered judgment
on the said verdict in favour of the plaintiffs in ejectnient, because it does not appear certainly, in the
said verdict, that the ancestor, under whom they
claim, held in law, or in fact, the' lands mentioned in
the declaration, when the treaty of 1794, between
the United States and- Great Britain, was made;
therefore, it is considered. by this court, that the
saidjudgnment be reversed, and annulled, and that
the cause be remanded tb the circuit court, for the
distric+ of New-York, with directions to award a vemirefaciasde novo.

Judgment reversed.
a Vide 11 Jons.Rep. 418.

Jackson v. Decker.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

MArLTi,

Heir at law and devisee of FAIRFAX. V.HuNTER'S Lessee.

The appellate jurisdiction of the supreme court of the United States
extends to a inal judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court
of law or equity of a state; where is drawn in question the validity
Of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the Uui.

