CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

298
816.

cult court be reversed and annulled, and that the

cause be reiianded to the circuit court, with direct
tIarrison. tiois to award a new trial thferein.
"The

"udgment reyersed.

(PRIZE.)

The HarriSon.-HERBERT, Clairant,
if the national 'character of property, captured and brought in kx
adjudicatioi., appears ambiguous or neutral, and no claim is inter.
posed, the cause is postponed for a year and a day 4fter the prize

proceedings are commepeed; and if no claimant appears withig
that time, the property is condemned to the captors.
Yu prize causes this court has an appellate jurisdiction only, and a
claim cannot for the first time be interposed here; but where the
court below had proceeded to adjudication before the above period
had elapsed, the cause was remanded to that court, with directions
to allow a claim to be filed therein, and the libel to be amended, &c.

APrV.AL from the circuit court for the district of

Maryland. The libel filed by the captors, in this
case, in the district court, alleged, that the goods for
-which condemnation was sought, were captured and

taken put of a Spanish vessel. No claim was filed
for the goods in either otf the courts below. But,
upon'the hearing, the district court dismissed the

libel, upon the ground, that the property, to whomwoever belonging, was protected by the 15th article

OF THE UNITED STATES.

294

,fthe treaty of 1795 with Spain, by which, free 1816.
ships make free goods; and this decree was affirm- . The
cd, upon the same principle, in the circuit court. The lHmron.
captors brought the cause, by appeal, to this court;
and a motion was made by Winder, in behalf of Elry
Herbert, an asserted claimant, to be admitted to file
a claim in this court.
J., delivered the opinion of the court.
March Mlt.
We have considered this question with a view to
the general rules of practice. Whenever a prize is
brought to adjudication in the admiralty, if, upon the
hearing of the cause upon the ship's papers, and the
evidence taken in preparatory, the property appears
to belong to enemies, it is immediately condemned.
If its national character appear doubtful, or even
neutral, and no claim is interposed, the court do not
proceed to a final decree; but the cause is postponed,
with'a view to enable any person, having title, to assert it, within a reasonable time, before the court.
This reasonable time has been, by the general usage
of nations, fixed to a year and a day after the institution of the prize proceedings; and if no laim be
interposed within that period, the property is deemed -.,be abandoned, and is condemned to the captors for contumacy and default of the supposed owner. In the present case the prescribed period had
not elapsed at the time when the district court proceeded to decree a dismissal of the libel. A claim
cannot, by the practice of this court, be for the first
time interposed here. In prize causes this court can
exercite only an appellate jurisdiction, -and between
STORY,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

300
1816.
Harden

V.
Fisher.

parties who have litigated in the court below. We
are all, therefore, of opinion that this cause ought to
be remanded to the circuit court, with directions to
allow the claim to be filed in that court; and, also,
to allow the libel to be amended so as to conform to
the general allegation of prize, and enable the captors to obtain condemnation of the property, if the
asserted claim shall not be sustained, and the property shall not appear entitled to the protection of the
Spanish treaty.
Case remanded.'
a Vide ArPErNix,

note II.

(COM MON LAW.)

HfARDEN v. FISHER ET AL.

Under the

9th article of the treaty of 1794, between the United States
and Great Britain, by which it is provided that British subjects,
holding lands in the United States, and their heirs, so far as respect
those lands, and the remedies incident thereto, should not be considered as aliens; the parties must show that the title to the land
for which the suit was .commenced was in them, or their ancestors,
at the time the treaty was made.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of NewYork. This case was argued, with great learning
and ability, by Hoffman, for the plaintilT in error,
and defendant in ejectment, and by Stockton for the

