OF THE UNITEb STATUES,'

ocitor might have considered it as a continuation of
the ridge, But tl6 trace does not lead up the spur."
It crosses a branch after passing the spiur, and~then
comes to the ridge. The court is of opinion that subsequent locators could not be expected to continue
their search after reaching the foot of the ridge,
and that the description fails in stating the marked
trees to 6e on the dividing ridge, instead of stating
Them .to be on a spur of the dividing ridge.
The -decree, therefore, dismissing the plaintiff's bill,
is affirmed with costs.

1816.

V.

Decree affirmed..

(LOCAL LAW.)
'.TAYLOR V. WA TbN AND HUNDLY.."
A questi.n of fact) espeoting the validity of tlie
lodation' of a warraat
[dr lan under the-laws of Kentucky.
*APPEAL

fr6m a .decr6e in chancery in the circuit

eourt of Kentucky. The cause'was argued by Key,
for the appellants,. and Talbot and Hardin for the
respondents.
MARSHALL,
court.

Ch. 1., delivered. the opinion of the March 6ft

149

tASES IN THE SUPREME COJRT

]A 16.

This is an appe-l from a decree rendered in the

Tl
Taylor

circuit- court of Kentucky, directing the' appellaht
to convey to the" appellees, lahds lying within his
patent, which the app~elleet claimed by virtue of a
junior patent.
In all such cageg the validity of the entry which
is the foundatioh of the title of the junior patentfee is
first to be examified.
This entry was made on the 4th of December,
1783, and -ali's to begin ",in the fork of Chaplin's, fork; and the Beech fork, and to run thence up
Beech fork to the mouth of the first large creek,
which is called, &t., thence'to run up the cieek and
iup Chaplin's fork till a lind run straight across will
include the quantity to exclude prior legal claims."
The places called for being proved to have been
places of notoriety which could not be mistaken, n6
want of certainty can be ascribed to this location, unless it be produced by the words ."to exclude prior'
legal claims." These words are obviously attached
to the qiAntity, not to the beginning, or to the lines
bounded by the creeks. They canthen affect only
the back line, which is to extend from one creek to
the other. The locator seeths to have supposed
that this line might approach towards, or recede
from, the point of juriction between the two creeksi
as the amount of prior legal claims might require;
that a' location could adapt itself to circumstances,
could assimilate itself td An elastic substance, and.
contract or expand as might secure the quantity of
land it sought to appropriate. In this he was mistaken. The boundaries of an entry must be Aixed

V.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

precisely by its own terms, and cannot depend on
previous appropriation. So much of this 'entry,
therefore, As would so extend the bak line as to
cow prehend, in one event, more land thari.the quantity mentioned in the location, is utterly void. Tha
back line must rwn as it would run if all the land was
vacant. But it would be unreasonable that this
futile attempt to extend the back line further than
it is by law extendible, should destroy an entry, in
all other respects certain. Accordingly, the courts
of Kentucky, so far as their decisions are unde,stood, have rjected such words as surplusage.
The entry of the appellees being good, it obviously comprehends, and has been surveyed to comprehend, the land of the appellant, and, this bridlgs
us to the consideiation of hi title.
The appellant claims under an, entry made by
John Pinn, the 13th of May, 1780, in these words,
"John )inn enters 2,000 acres of land by virtue of
a treasury warrant, on the dividing ridge. between
Chaplin's fork and waters of the Beech fork, about
one and a half miles north of a buffalo lick, on a creek
water of the Beech fork; about 25 miles from Harrodaburgh, and to extend eastwardly and westwardly for quantity."
The plaintiffs below allege, in their bill, that this
entry is void on account of its uncertainty, that the
survey is unlawful and contrary to the location, and,
therefore, pray that the larW so surveyed and patent-ed may be conveyed to them. The circuit court
determined that the entry was void, and decreed
according to the prayer of the bill, From this de-

18ti.
.

144

1816.
TraYior
v.

Walton.

"CASES I THE' SUPRE&ME COURT

creethe defendant has appealed to this eoirwt,and
.the validity of Pinn's locatiorn forms ,the p iAcipal

question in the cause.
The report oit the surveyor, .which is Iound irhe
record, is defective and unsatisfactoiy. H6 has neither placed Harrodsburgh nor the dividing ridge -n
the plat; the court is under the necessity of,supplying these defects., as far as they canbe supp ed,
from -ther testimony which appears in the record.
."From that testimony it appears, that the ridge mj st
e'fend trm,'ome .point below Pinn's entry,- up'the
cre 1k near whiih it is made, pow called Long Lick
Crek; and thlat the tr- -e leading up that creek was
a'trce leading r.rom Cox's'station to Iarrodsburg,
The inference seems inevitable that Harrodsburgh
lay eastward from this location, since the trace lead,
ing up tho'creek,to Harrodsburgh took- that directiou. The tegtimony must be understood as showing
ihat In going up the Long Lick Creek you approach
Iarrodsburgfi..
This is a material f&.et'in the intuiry we aie mking. Harrodshurih is admitted to have beena place
of general notorify, as ax Chaptin's fork, 'and the
creek called'fot in/Pinei's location. The Jividing
ridge I'etwOen Ohaplin's -fork and the waters of
Beech fork. i -lso, of ne-cssity, a place of notoriety,
sin e"the winters it dividesare so.
The fitst call of Pinn's entry is for tis dividing
ridge; a general ca1 for the ridge would be certainly too vaguie; but the land -must lie on some part of
it, and we must look to other calls of the' entry 'to
-aksertainr on what part. It is to be about one and

OF THE UNITED STATES;

U5

a half miles horth of a buffalo lick, on a creek wa-. 1816.
Taylor
-ter.of !he eac'h iork. • .
V.
The quesiion, whether this buffalo lick was,-on
t
the 13th of May, 1780,'a place- of such notoriety a
tp'instruct a subsequent locator how 'to find Pinn's
beinnig, .is one of gome doubt. -The degree .of
'probf which can now be adduced, and ought now to
be required, .espedtihg such "a-fact, must be affect.
ed by many.circumstances. -The contiguity of stations, the number of persons who frequented that
particular part of the country, aid, above all, the
lapse of time, will have their influ.ence.
Richard Stephens' deposes that he had travelled
Powell's trace, which leads up the Long Lick fork,
.three times; understood there was a lick at the place.,
and- thinks he was at it, .but 'wad not much. acquainted with it.
Edward Willis became acquainted with 'his lick
in 1781. or i78.2;-there were several other licks 'on
the same creek, but this was the largest and moat
frequented. Its reputed distance from Harrodsburgh was better than twefity-miles.
Joseph Willis hunted a good deal in that part of
the country, and knew this lick. Never knew but
one 'bufalo lick, though there are a number of small
.licks. Its reputed distance from Harrodsburgh was
upwards of twenty -miles, but does not recollect
'ivhether, it was a place of notoriety in 1780.
John Gritton calls it a buffalo lick, and has been
acquainted with it ever since -the .month of June, in
the year 1780. Its'reputed distance from Harrbds-.
'burgh Vas from tWenty to twenty-five miles. There
Ve-r..

T

CASES IN THE SU42REME COURT

!8ib.
Taylor

v.

Walton.

are several other small licks on the creek, and one,
a tolerable large one, lying on the south fork, . different creek from Long Lik; but no othqr than this
was called a buffalo lick.

In a subsequent part of

his deposition he is asked whether this lick was a
place of notoriety in 1780, and answered, that he
knew nothing about it at that time. This must be
intended for the month of May, 1780, one mondL
sooner than the date of his knowledge, or is a positive contradicfion to his first assertion.
James Raig says, that this lick was generally
known by the hunters about Harrodsburgh, prior to
the month of May, 1780; that he encafnped. at'it
with three hunters, in the summer of 1776, and hunted about there; that there are several other licks in
the neighbourhlood, but no other buffalo lick; that
its reputed distance from Harrodsburgh, in 1781 or
1782, was about 25 -miles.
This is all the -testimony respecting the notoriety
of the buffalo lick called for in Penn's entry. Did
the validity of this entry depend solely on the notoriety of the lick, a court would find some difficulty in
pronouncing it too obscure.an object to be noticed by
subsequeht locators.
But, admitting that the lick wants sufficient notoriety to fix of itself the place of Penn's entry, still,
it must be allowed to be an object easily found and
easily distinguished, by those who are-brought into
its neighbourhood by the other descriptive parts of
the entry. Let us, then, inquire, whether this entry
does contain such description, as would conduct a
subsequent locator into its neighbourhood.

bF THE UNITED STATES.

1-4P

The lick'is within a niile. and a half of the civid- 1818.
ing ridge; on-the south side of that ridge, and.0in a Taylor
cieek water of- Beech fork, This des'cripiin,
V.
which, though not expressly, "is sub.st~intially given, W1ton.
precisely fits Long Lick Creek, and fits no other creek
.The location caliing to begin a mile and a half north
o: the lick, which lies on the creek; it is sufftcielitly
apparent that no creek is. crossed between the lick
and the place on the dividing ridge, callbd for- by
Pinn's entry: consequently, the lick must lie on the
creek nearest this dividing ridge. This is what has
been since called Long Lick Creek, bui which was
then without a name, and could be designated only
by description. A subsequent locator searching for
this lick, would look for it, then, on Long Lick Creek.
He-is informed by the entry, that it lies on a creek
so described as to be completely ascertained, about
twenty-five miles from -arrodsburgh. .The part of
that creek, then, which lies about twehty-five mxle'
from Harrodsburgh,is the place where he must search
for this lick. Walton arid HIindly state in their ,ntries, that Powell's trace, which leads from Cox's itation to Harrodsburgh, and which arrives at Long Lick
Creek a short distance above this lick,' goes up the
creek five or six miles. Jain-es Ray says, that the
trace leads 0iearv t6 its head; and the sui'veyor in
his rep6rt states, that it leads quite to its head.
LongLick Creek, thenheads between Harrodshurgh.
and this lick' and is the creek oh which the buffalo
lick must.lie. The.entry-tells us, it lies twenty-five
miles from Harrodsburgb.

CASES IN THE SEPREMP, COUkT

1816.
v
Taylor

V.

Walton.

If an object be called for as lying on a creek, s&,
described as to be distinguished and ascertained,;
twenty-five miles from a given place of general notofety,. which object has disappeared or cannot'

be fqund' it, is understood' to be settled', in Kentucky, that such location is not void for uncertainty,
but is to be surveyed at the distance of twenty-five
miles along the creek, from the place of departure.

If the object be fouhd and be identified, especially if
it be such an object as would readily attract atten-.
tion,-and be easily distinguished, exactness in the distance is not required. On such occasions the distance was, in fact, seldom measured by the lpcator,
and could not be measured in a straight line without
the, aid of a surveyor. The locator, in estimating
distances, where they are considerable, is governed.
by general computation-; and this is known to subsequent locators. Exactness of distance, then, is introduced for the purpose of giving certainty to locations, which can by no other means ke rendered
certain. Where the object called for is easily found.
and identified, the want of precision in distance will
not defeat the location, unless the difference between,
the actual and estimated, distance be such, as to mislead subsequent locators
James Ray says, that the estimated distance from
f-arrodsburgh to the. mouth of Hanger run was 27'
or 30 miles, and that the lick was about three miles
nearer than the mouth of,.Hanger run to Harrodsburgh. James Ray says, thiat the estimated distance'
from Harrodsburgh to the lick was about 25 miles,
and that it lies three or four miles above the junction.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the Beech And Chaplin forks.

Several witnesses

149
1816.

depose, that'the estimated distiance from Harrods-

burgh to this. lick was upwards of twenty miles. TV.or
The distance has been measured, and is in, a straight Walton.
line twentymiles and one quarter of a mile.
If this difference of distance could in such a case,
when unaided, affect the entry, yet 'there are other
circumstances which reliewz it from this difficulty.
From the lick to the mouth of-the creek on which
it must lie,.cannot, in a straight line; amount to two,
miles. Measured along its meanders, the distance is
about three miles. This fact is ascertained by the.
surveys' made of the two entries. The farthest
point. then, of this creek from Harrodsburgh, cnnot,
in a straight line, exceed twenty-two miles. But the
lick lies, not at the mouth of the creek, 'but on. the
creek. The locator must, then, search for it up the
creek, and nearer t HarrQdsbur'gh. The extent of
this search for such an "object as a buffalo lick, au
object, to which he must be led by traces of the buffalo, which are in themselves so.visible, so distinguisable, so readily found, cannot, without totally disregarding the whole system of Kentuckydeiisions, be
pronounced too great a labour tojbe imposed on a
subsequent locator. - He is brought to the mouth of
a creek, on which the object for which he searches
lies: the object must fie upthat creek, and cannot lie
far'from its mouth, . It is an object discernible and
distinguishable at a distance, and calculated froni its;
nature. to engage attention. ie. is Within two niles
of it on a straight line, and within three miles pursuing the meanders of the creek: if he does not find

150

vASES IN THE SUPREME COURWT

it) it is to his own indolence, not to the obscurity of'
Tala
the object or the difficulty of the seairh, that ,thc
V.
blame attaches.
The lick being found, there is no difficulty in ascertaining its identity. The witndsses certainly say,
that there are many other licks on the same creek,,and the surveyor has laid down two others; but they
also say, that no other lick Was- a buffalo lick. It has
been stated and argued at the bar, that although
licks are of very different dimensions,..and the difference is immense between the extremes, yet the
gradations approach each other sb nearly, that the
exact line between them can scarcely be' drawn.
Admitting this to be true, yet there are licks which
are indubitably buffalo licks, there are others which
are as indubitably deer licks. Now, the witnesses
pronounce, positively, that this is. a buffalo lick, and
that the others are deer licks.' In 'addition to this,
it is nearest to the mouth of the creek, and fathest
from -tarrodsburgh; consequently, it is nea.rer 'the
distance required by the location.' There is no
doubt, then, respecting the identity of this lick.
The lick called for in Pinn's entry being found and
identified, there can be no difficulty in finding his
land. It lies one and a half miles due north of tWis
lick, on the dividing.ridge. The place at whiqh the
mensuration is to commence being ascertained, the
rules established in Kentucky will give form to
the land, and direct the manner of making the
1816.

survey.
It is the opinioh of this ?court:, that the decree of
te circuit-court, is erroneous, and ought to be re-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

versed; and that the cause be remanded to that

1816.

court, with directions to order the land claimed by
the appellant to be surveyed conformably to his lov.
cation. In doing this, a point will be taken one mile Lapsley.
and a half due north of the buffalo lick mentioned
in Pihn's. en.try,.from which it line is to be ext6hided east and west, to equal distances,- until it
shall 'or'm the base of a square to contain 2,000 acres
of -land, which is to lib north of -the said line.
•Decree r&e'ersed.

(CHANCERY.)

J. & T., BARR v. LAPSLY ET AL.
A question under a bill in equity, to obtain a specific performance of
an alleged agreement to receive a quantity of cotton bagging, it a
specified price,. in satisfaction. of certain judgments at law. Bill
dismissed.

APPEAL from the 6ircuit coui-t of the district of
Columbia. This. cause was argued by Jones, for the
appellants and compldihants, ahd Hamer, for the respondeit 'nfid defendaht
Joif.is6

,., deliverekthe opinion of the court.

The object of thi bill' is, t'obtain a'specific performance of an alleged agreement to receive a quan-

March'6fL

