OF THE UNITED STATES.

159
1818.

(PRIZE.)
THi

ANTONIA JOHANNA.

A neutral

ship was chartered for a voyage from London to St. Michaels, thence to Fayal, thence to St. Petersburg or any port in the
Baltic, and back to London, at the freight of 1,000 guineas. On
her passage to St. Michaels, she was captured and brought into the
port of Wilmington, N. C. for adjudication. A part of the cargo
was condemned, and part restored.
The freight was held to be chargeable upon the whole cargo, as wall
upon that part restored as upon that condemned.
Query, Whether more than a pro rae freight was due to te master ?
It seems that the property of a house of trade in the enemy's ,country

Jsconfiscable as prize of war, notwithstanding the neutral domiciX
of one or more of its lartners.

APPEAL

-

from the circuit court for the district of

North Carolina. This was the case of a Russian
ship, captured on the 2d bf June, 1814, by the privateer Herald, on a voyage from London lo St. Michaels, and brought into the port of Wilmington, N.
C., for adjudicatibn. The ship" was chartered by
Messrs. Burnet & Co., a mercantile firm at London,
for a voyage I'rom London to St. Michaels, thence to
Fayal, thence to St. Petersburg or any port in the
Baltic, and thence to return to Londo,, at the stipulated freight of one thousandguineas. The ship and
cargo were libelled as prize of war, and, upon the
hearing in the district court, that part of the cargo
which .was not claimed was condemned. The residue of the cargo, cxcbipting one rnoietv of certain

The
Antonia
Johanna.

60

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

packages, claimed on behalf of Messrs. Ivens &
a mercantile firm at St. Michaels, was re""Burnett.
The
Intonia stored. The whole freight.was decreed to be paid
5hanna.
to the master, and charged exclusively upon the proceeds of the property condemned,.and the moiety of
the property restored to Messrs. Ivens -& Burnett.
From so much of this decree as respected the -controversy between ihe captors and the claimants of the
cargo, an appeal was interposed to the circuit court,
where the decree was affirmed, and the cause was
brought, by appeal from the latter decree, to this
court.
1816.

Wtheaton, for the appellants and captors. The
cause may be divided into three branches:
1st. As to the claim for the three invoices of goods
shipped by Messrs. Burnett & Co. of London, to
Messrs. Ivens & Burnett, of St. Michaels.
2d. As to the remainder of the cargo.
3d. As to the order respecting the freight.
1. There is a hostile trade which will affect the
property engaged in it with cbnfiscation, as cQmpletely and effectually as a-hostile domci4 dnd that
without regard to the national character of the indi-"
vidual. Thus, the produce of an estate in the enemy's country, belonging to a person domiciled in a
neutral country, is liable to capture and condemrnation.a This principle was adopted.and confirmed by
this court, in the case of Mr. Bentzen, a Danish subject, resident in Denmhark, whose claim to 30 hogsa 5 Rob. 20. The Phnix..

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1816.
heads of sugar, the produce of an estate belonging
to him, in a West India island possessed by the eneThe Antonio
So
condemnedb
property
the
and
my, was rejected,
Johana
a vessel purchased bonafde in the enemy's country,
by a neutral, continuing in her former trade, is good
prize. And the property of a house of trade established in the enemy's country, though some of the
parties may be domiciled in a neutral country, is prize
of ward Apply these authorities to the present
case: the share of Mr. Ivens cannot escape the same
fate with that of his partner domiciled in London;
the partnership is domiciled there, and his interest is
so mixed up with hostile interests, that it cannot be
separated. These principles were recognised by a
learned judge of this court, in the first circuit, in the
case of the St. Jose Indianoe the decree in which
was acquiesced in by the counsel. Their general
spirit was adopted by that venerable tribunal, the
continental court of appeals in prize causes, and applied even to a treaty stipulation, that free ships
should make fiee good.. which was held not to extend
to a trade carried on by a neutral, but hostile in its
nature/ 2. -As to the other portions of the cargo,
the evidence to restore or-condemn must come, i
the first instance, from the documentary evidence and
b Feb. T. 1815.
c I Rob. 1. The Vigilantia. 4 Rob. 31. The Jemmy. 3 Rob. 4i.
The Jonge Amelia, cited in the case of the Portland.
d I Rob. 1. The case of Mr. Coopman, cited in the Vigila'tia. 2
Rob. 2.51. The Susa. 3 Rob. 41. The ortland. 5 Rob. 302. The
Jonge Klassina.
e Claim of Messrs. Dyson, Brothers, & Fennie.
f 2 Dqll. 34. Darhy et al. v. the brig Estern.

VOt.J .

X

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the examinations inpreparatorio. In this -case, that
T
is neither sufficient for condemnation, nor does it afThe
Antonia
ford satisfactory grounds for immediate restitution;
'T.ba farther proof ought, therefore, to be ordered.
3.
The neutral master is undoubtedly entitled to his
freight; but this is not to be charged, exclusively,
upon the property condemned and ordered to bc
sold, whilst the property specifically restored cscapes the burden which is imposed, solely upon
the ground of an implied performance of the contract on the part of the master. The law says, that
captreis equivalent to delivery; it does not say, that
condemnation only, is equivalent to dclivery, and that,
therefore, the portion of tle cargo restored, shall be
charged with no part of the freight. On the contrary, in a case where the cargo had been unlivered,
and the wlwe was restored upon the original evidence, the freight was held to be a charge upon the.
cargo, though it was not carried to the port of destinati6n. But, here, a pro rata freight only, ought
to be allowed : but a small part of the whole voyage,
for which the 1,000 guineas was stipulated to be paid,
was to be performed in the service of this cargo,
which was to be delivered at St. Michaels. The
master was not bound to wait longer than the first
adjudication; indeed, the unlivery completely dissolved the contract between him and the owners o1
the goods, and entitled the master to whatever
freight he might have earned in their service
1816.

g 3 Rob. 101. The Race Horse. See also the Martha and the Ha,
milton, in a note to the same case.
h 6 Rob. 231. The Hoffnung. I Edwards, _046. The Friends. i
Rob. 289. The Copenhagen. 4 9pb, 77. The Isabella Jawobina

-OFThE-UT1TED'STATE§.

M6

Gaston, contra. 1. The captors cannot now ob- 18i6.
ject that the freight, de:creed in the coirt below to
The
be paid to the master, was unreasonable'in itself, "r Antonia
not chargeable to them. They have 'cquiesced in.
this part of the decree, and it has been defin.itively
carried into executioh. 2. The goods shipped 1o
Messrs. Ivens & Burnett -ofSt. Michaels, were ship-.
ped by order, and on account and risk of that house
of- trade. The claim, the, documentary proof, and
the preparatory examinations, are perfectly consi~tent, and establish that a moiety of this shipmeht is
the property of that house, the partners of which
are domiciled in a rieutral country; they must, thiie
fore, be regarded as neutral by, both.4belligeiants
with reference to the trade which they carry on
With the adverse belligerant, and with all the world:
In the case of the St. Indianb, it was insisted that
the principle of condemriation applied in cases where
A p.rtner of a neutral house is domicilod in the enemy's country, and ships to such house, goods, the
manufacture- of that. country; but the position was
bxpressly overruled. Even if. the hostile and the
neutral house here consisted of the same partners,
and the shipment was made from the hostile to the
neutral partier, for their joint concern, it would, nevertheless, be contended, that the share of the hostile partner was alone subjedt to condemnation.
However sincee and profound a respect -is felt for
the, lefne.d judges, who are said to have decided
that ifhe bbdigerant character of one partner shall
Aoil to condemn, and the neutrat eiaracter of the
tner shall not avail to save.. Where .the .hou.se has -a

"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

domicil both in the neutral and belligerant country;
'
these supposed decisions cannot be reconciled with
The
Antonia
the dictates of justice, or the principles of reason, and
Johanna, it is', therefore, believed that they will not receive
1816.

the sanction of the highest judicial tribunal of this
country. 3. No specific ground has been taken by
the captor's counsel, to support the appeal as to the
remaining portions of the cargo. The claims are
verified by the documentary evidence showing the
goods to ha;e been shipped by order, and for the
account and risk of persons, subjects of, or domiciled
in, a neutral country.
Whea(on, in reply. 1. If the captors have improvidently closed the door, in the court below, upon the
question, as to what amount of freight shall be paid
to the master, it is still open as to whether any portion of the cargo is to be exempt from contributing
to the payment of freight. That is, emphatically, a
controversy 'between the captors and claimants: the
master has nothing to do with it; he has been paid
his freight, and gone away. The bringing in the vessel and cargo for adjudication, was not a wrong done
by the captors to the claimants, who may ultimately
provd to be neutral; it was an inconvenience to which
the latter subjected themselves by lading their goods
in the same vessel with enemy's property; and it is not
for the captors to indemnify them by paying the
freight. of the neutral claimants' goods, as well as
those which have become the property of the captorsjure belli. 2.. According to the claimant's ccunsel, the shipments by Messrs. Burnett & Co. were

165

OF THt UNITED STATES..

muade by the hostile house, as the agents, and bona
fide exclusively on the account and risk of the neutral house. On no other ground whatever can this
case be extracted from the principle of the St. Indiano; and, upon that ground, the whole of the property ought to be restored, actording to the limitations of the principle stated by. the learned judge in
the case of the St. Indiano. It is the domicil of the
house, and the nature of its trade, and not the belligerant character of one of the partners, that avails
to condemn: And it is a doctrine that may be vindicated upon every principle of reason and justice.
Upon what principle is the property of a neutral
subject, personally domiciliated in the enemy's country, liable to condemnation ? Not upon the ground
that his original national character is lost, but that
his.property is undistinguishably incorporated with
that of the enemy, and employed exclusively in carrying on his trade, and strengthening his resources.
Is not .the property of a house of trade, establishd in the enemy's country, wheresoevei- the partners
may reside, in the same predicament ? It is believed
that the decisions cited to support these principlesi
will be sanetioiied by this tribunal; that they are
corollaries from the rules of prize law which have
already been sanctioned by it; that they are supported .by all the analogies of that law, and are esa
sential to its perfection as a system of jurisprudence
impartially administered between belligerants and
neutrals. The interest which a power at war haE
in maintaining the principles of these decisions, is.
obvious. What interest ha.5 a fair and just neutral

i86
Antonia

CASES IN THE SUP REH

COURT

in contesting it? His subjects may carry on their
trade through its accustomed channels, unThe
Antonia touched 'by the flames of war spreading on every
Tohanna. side. Do they wish to export their commodities to
1816.

Susual

the enemy's country ? They may consign them to
commission merchants there, or to their own supercargoes on board., Do they wish to import the production, of the enemy's country into their own;
They may purchase them by the same instrumentality. Do they wish to become the carriers of both
to every region of the globe? They may do it with
imp inity. A neutral merchant cannot, thereforei
wish to be a partner in a house of trade in the enemy's country, unless for 'the purpose of lending his
national character as a shield against The just rights
of the other belligerant. It is by a more remote
application of the same principle now contended for,
that the property of persons taken in breach of
blockade, as contraband of war, or sailing under an
enemy's license, is liable to be considered as enemy's
property, pro hac vice. It is taken adhering to the
enemy, clothed with his character, and inseparably
blended with his interests. This rule is precisely
settled by the positive adjudications of the British
prize courts, and there is reason to believe is practised in those of France and other countries. It is
not one of those interpolations into the code of public law, of which that great civilian, by whom it ig
expounded, has been accused. This is not like the
rule which prohibits to neutrals, in time of war, all
trade not open in peace; nor like the rule which declares whole coasts and countries in a state or block-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ide, without investing or besieging a -single port;
nor like that which extends'the infection of contraband to a return voyage; nor that which swells the
list of contraband, with every article however remotely useful in war. Nor is it a rule of recent invention ; at least, there is no evidence that the cases
mentioned in the Vigilantia were decided contrary
to the practice and opinions maintained by the British courts of prize, when this country was a portion
of the British empire. 3. The remaining claims are
said to be verified by the papers-found on board.
But how are these papers verified ? It is well known
that papers are a mere dead letter, unless supported
by the testimony of living, witnesses. When it is
considered that the cargo Wa" laden in the enemy's
country, and the papers put on board- by enemy
shippers, only one of whom the master knows any
thing about, so as to be able to swear, evepi as to his
belief, it is not too much to say; that this part of the
case requires farther proof to justify restitution of
the goods as claimed.

1816.
•The
Antonia
Johunnp

STORY, J., delivered the opiniodn of the court, and, Mdarch 8th.
.after stating the facts, proceeded as folloWs:
UVon the argument no specific objection wag t ken to-the restitution of any of the.property claimed,
excepting that included in the claim of Messrs. Ivens
& Burnett. This shipment was made by Messrs.
Burnett & Co. of London, to Messrs. Ivens & Bur-nett of St. Michaels, and the invoices declare the
goods to be by order, and for dccount and risk, of the
'latter gentle len. -It is contended. in behalf of the

168

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

captors, that both houses are composed of the same

The

persons, viz. William S. Burnett, who is domiciled at
London, and William Ivens, who is domiciled at St.

Antonia

Johanna.

Michaels; and that the documentary evidence,, and

private correspondence, show that the shipment was
made on account of the hostile house. If the fact of
the identity of the two houses were material to a decision or the cause, it might furnish a proper grouid
for an order for farther proof. But admitting the
fact to be as the captors contend, we'are satisfied
that it can be of no avail to them. It is clear, from
the vhole documentary evidence, that this shipment
.was not made on the account and risk of the hostile
house; but bona fide on- the account and risk of the
neutral house. It does not, therefore, present a case
for the application of the principle, that the property of a house of trade in the enemy's country is condemnable as prize, notwithstanding the neutral domicil of one of its partners. On the contrary, it presents a case for the application- of' the ordinary principle which subjects to confiscation, jure bell, the
share of a partner.in a neutral house, where his own
domicil is in a hostile country. And, on this view, the
decision of the circuit court is entirely correct, and
is consistent with the doctrines established in the
cases cited at the argument.
The next inquiry is, as to the freight .decreed to
the master. As no appeal was interposed to the
decre of the district court; allowiing the whole
freight for the whole voyage, the question, whether
more than a pro rata freight was due, (a question
which wonld otherwise have deserved grave cbnsi-

OF THE UNITED STATES;

deration,) does not properly arise. The onfy disussion which can now be entertained, is, whether
the freight so decreed ought not to have beenf
charged iipon the whole cal'go, instead of being
charged upon a portion of it. And We are all of
opinion that it was properly a charge- upon the whole
cargo. Although. capture be deemed, in the prize
courts, in many cases, equivalent to delivery, yet the
captors cannot be liable for more than the freight of
the goods actually receied by them. The capture
of a neutral ship, having enemy's property on board,
is a strictly justifiable exercise of the rights of wa.
It is no*wrong done to the.neutral, even though'the
voyage be thereby defeated. The captors are not,
therefore, answerable in p emm to the neutral foea
the losses which ho m~y sustain by a lawful exercise.
of belligerant rights. It is the misfortune of the ffeu-tral, and not the fault of the belligerant. By the
capture, the captors are -substituted in lieu of tho
original, owners, and they take the property, curA
onere. -They are, therefore,' ieponsible for th6freight which then attached upon the property, of
which the sentence, of condemnatioin ascertains them
tQ be the rightful owneirs succeeding to the formeo
proprietors. - So far the rule seems perfectly equitable'; but to press it farther, alid charg them with'
the freight.of goods which they haVe never received,
or with the burden of. a charter party into Which
they have never entered, Would be unreasonable in:
itself, and inconsistent with the admitted principles
of prize law. It might, in a case of justifiable cap.
ture, by the condemnation of a single bale of goods,
VoLi. I.

jog
1816.
The
A~toima

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
The
Antonia
3ohanna.

lead the captors to their ruin with the stipulatedfreight of a whole cargo.
On the whole, we are all of opinion, that the de-

cree of the circuit court ought to be affirmed, except so far as it charges the freight upon'the property condemned, and the moiety claimed by Messrs.
Ivens & Burnett;- and as to this, it ought to-be reversed, and thai the freight should be decreed to be
charge upon the whole cargo, to be paid by each.
parcel fhereof, in proportion to its value.
Decree affirmed, except as to the freight:
i It has been held, that the
charter party is not the 'measure
by which the captor is, in all
cases, bound, even where no
fraud is im r atea to the contract
itself. When, by the events of
war, navigation is rendered so
hazardous as to raise the price of
freight to an extraordinary height,
captors are not, necessarily,
bound to that inflamed rate of
freight.. When no such circunistances exist, when a ship is cartying on an ordinary trade, the

charter party is undoubtedly the
rule of valuation, unless impeached; the captor puts himself in
the place of the owner of the cargo, and takes with that specific
lien upon it. But avery different
rule is to be applied, when the
trade is subjected to very extraordinary risk and hazard, from its
connexiod with the events of war.
and the redoubled activity and
success of the belligerant cruisers.
5 Rob. 82. The Twilling Riget,

