YOUNG

V. MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the court to any question that has been omitted, and to request an instruction upon it, which, if not given, can be
brought to the notice of this court, if an exception is taken.
But the mere omission to charge the jury on some one of
the points in a case, when it does not appear that the party
feeling himself aggrieved made any request of the court on
the subject, cannot be assigned for error.
JUDGMENT AFFIRM1ED.

YoUNG V. MARTIN.
1. The entries of a clerk of a Territorial District Court, stating in a general
way the proceedings had in that court, and that they were excepted to
by counsel, do not present the action of the court and the exceptions
taken in such form that they can be considered by this court.
2. It is no part of the duty of the clerk to note in his entries the exceptions
taken, or to note any other proceedings of counsel, except as they are
preliminary to, or the basis of the orders or judgment of the court.
3. To be of any avail, exceptions must be drawn up so as to present distinctly the ruling of the court upon the points raised, and must be
signed and sealed by the presiding judge. Unless so signed and sealed,
they do not constitute any part of the record which can be considered
by an appellate court.
4. When parties, after a demurrer interposed by them to an answer is overruled, instead of relying upon its sufficiency, file a replication, they
thereby abandon the demurrer, and it ceases henceforth to be a part of
the record.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The case was begun in a District Court of the Territory
just named, and was carried thence to the Supreme Court
of the same, under the provisions of an act of the legislature of the Territory, providing for appeals to the Supreme
Court, approved January 18th, 1861.* The 1st section of
that act provides:
ERROR

"That hereafter whenever any final order, judgment, or decree is made or rendered in the District Court of the Territory,
the party aggrieved may have the same reviewed in the Supreme
Revised Statutes of Utah Territory, 1866, p. 66.

Dec. 1869.]

YOUNG V. MARTIN.
Statement of the case.

Court on appeal, by obtaining from the clerk of the court, making or rendering such order, judgment, or decree, a complete
transcript of the record of the case, which shall be filed with
the clerk of the Supreme Court."
The 7th section provides that:
"The bearing of the Supreme Court shall be upon the record
and argument of counsel; and the District Court is hereby required to sign all bills of exceptions taken to its rulings, decisions, or charge to the jury, which shall be incorporated into
and constitute part of the record of the cause."
The 8th section provides that:
"When the judgment, final -order,or decree shall be reversed,
either in whole or in part, the Supreme Court may render such
judgment as the court below should have rendered, or remand
the cause to the court below to proceed according to the decision of the Supreme Court."
Final judgment was rendered in the District Court against
the plaintiffs, on the 14th of March, 1867,.and a complete
transcript of the proceedings in the case was filed by the
plaintiffs, with the clerk of the Supreme Court of the Territory, on the 2d of August, 1867, attached to which transcript was an assignment of errors by the plaintiffs, with a
prayer asking that the judgment of the District Court might
be reversed, and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiffs on the record. No bill of exceptions was taken at the
trial in said District Court, but in the record the following
appeared, to wit:
"August 23d.
"Plaintiffs' counsel filed demurrer to defendant's answer, which
was argued by Messrs. Baskin and Hempstead, for plaintiffs, and
Messrs. Marshall and Carter, for defendant. Pleadings submitted
to the court and held under advisement."
. "August 24th.
"Court overruled demurrer filed by plaintiffs to defendant's answer, and ruled that defendant has a lien on the goods of E. R.
Young & Sons, now in possession of defendant, for freight, both
by the MeWhurt train and the Irwine train.

YOUNG V. MARTIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"Plaintiffs ordered to reply as though demurrer had not been
filed. C. H. Hempstead, Esq., counsel for plaintiff, excepted to
the ruling of the court."
"December 7th.

"C. H. Hempstead, Esq., made a verbal motion praying for
judgment and damages on the pleadings. Motion argued by
Messrs. Baskin and Hempstead for plaintiffs, and Messrs. Marshall and Carter for defendant.
"Pleadings submitted to the court and held under advisement."
"December 8th.

"Motion for judgment overruled.
plaintiffs' counsel."

Rulings excepted to by

The Supreme Court of the Territory dismissed the appeal,
and the plaintiff took this writ of error.
Mr. De Wolfe, for plaintiff in error; Mr. Van Cott, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no evidence contained in the transcript that any
exceptions were taken to the action of the District Court of
the Territory, except such as appears from the minutes of
the clerk. These minutes are mere memoranda, stating, in
the briefest and most general manner, the proceedings had
in court. They do not purport to give the particulars of the
They
proceedings, but only to describe their character.
were made to preserve an account of the general order of
business of the court, and to assist the clerk in the subsequent preparation of the formal record. In this case they
state that, on a day mentioned, the plaintiffs' counsel filed a
demurrer, which was argued and taken under advisement;
that, on the subsequent day, the demurrer was overruled,
and the plaintiffs excepted. And, also, that afterwards, on
a certain day, the plaintiffs' counsel made a verbal motion
for judgment and damages on the pleadings; that the motion was argued and, on the following day, overruled, and
that the ruling was excepted to.
These entries do not present the action of the court and
the exceptions in such form that we can take any notice of

Dec., 1869.]

YOUNG V. MARTIN.
Opinion of the court.

them. It is no part of the duty of the clerk to note in his
entries the exceptions taken, or to note any other proceedings of counsel, except. as they are preliminary to, or the
basis of, the orders or judgment of the court. Tobe of any
avail, exceptiQns must not only be drawn up so as to present
distinctly the ruling of the court upon the points raised, but
they must be signed and sealed by the presiding judge.
Unless so signed and sealed, they do not constitute any part
of the record which can be cdnsidered byan appellate court.*
It is true, as stated by counsel, that the object of a bill of
exceptions is to make matter of record what would not'otherwise appear as such, and that no bill is necessary where the
error alleged is apparent upon the record. So here, had the
demurrer been in the transcript, and it had appeared that
the plaintiffs had relied upon its sufficiency, and final judgment thereon had passed against them, the error of the
court, if any existed, would have been open to examination,
for it would have been disclosed by the proceedings. No
bill of exceptions, then, could have presented more clearly
the ruling of the court.t But the demurrer is not in the
transcript, and it is only a matter of conjecture whether it
was a special or general one; to the form or substance of
the answer. Nor is any order overruling the demurrer
shown; a statement of the clerk in his entries that such was
the fact is all that appears. But, independent of this consideration, the ruling of the court on this point would not b6
noticed, for it appears that the'plaintiffs, instead of relying
upon the sufficiency of the alleged demurrer, filed a replication to the answer. They thus abandoned their demurrer,
and it ceased to be a part of the record.1
P
The exception to the ruling in denying the motion for
judgment on the pleadings is not only subjectto the general
objection already stated, but to the further objection, that
Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheaton, 119; Leveringe v. Dayton, 4 Washington's Circuit Court, 698.
- Suydam o. Williamson, 20 Howard, 427.
$ Aurora City v. West, 7 Wallace, 92; Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Id. 42;
Brown v. Saratoga Railroad Co., 18 New York,,495.

358

GILBERT & SECOR V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the grounds upon which the motion was made or denied are
not given. The motion was not made at the trial, and, as
counsel suggests, it may have been denied on a point of
practice, without respect to the merits.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

GILBERT & SECOR V. UNITED STATES.
1. An act of Congress directing the Secretary of the Navy to enter into a
contract with certain parties, provided it could be done on terms previ-

ously offered by the parties, does not, of itself, create a contract.
2. If such parties afterwards sign a written agreement with the secretary,
on terms less favorable to them than the act of Congress authorized the

secretary to make, they must abide by their action in accepting the less
favorable terms.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
By an act of March 3d, 1847, making appropriations for
the naval service, certain sums were set apart for floating drydocks at Philadelphia, at Pensacola, and at Kittery, which
the Secretary of the Navy was directed to have built.
Proposals were received for these docks from several persons, and among them from Gilbert & Secor, who offered to
build the dock at Kittery for $732,905. The proposals were
made on a basis that the docks should have what is known
" as tar and felt sheathing."
If the sheathing known as
"copper sheathing" was required, the offer was to do the
work for an additional sum of $72,742.
Upon an examination of the proposals, and on full consideration of the plans proposed, it was found that the appropriation made by Congress in the act just mentioned,
was insufficient to pay for the work on the plan approved by
the secretary. Thereupon, under the advice of the AttorneyGeneral, the secretary declined to make an.,] contracts.
At the next session, Congress having considered the
matter, passed another act,* in which the secretary was diAPPEAL

* Act of 3d August, 1848.

