Dec. 1868.]

D

THE LADY FRANKLIN.
Statement of the case.

THE LADY FRANKLIN.
1. A bill of lading given by a person who was agent of several vessels all
alike engaged in transporting goods brought to certain waters by a railway line, but having separate owners, and not connected by any joint
undertaking to be responsible for one another's breaches of contractthe bill, through mistake of the agent, acknowledging that certain goods
had been shipped on the vessel A., when, in fact, they had been previously shipped on vessel B., and a bill of lading given accordinglywill not make the vessel A. responsible, the goods having been lost by
the vessel B., and the suit being one by shippers of the merchandise
against the owner of the vessel A., and the case being thus unembarrassed
by any question of a bond fide purchase on the strength of the bill of
lading.
2. While a bill of lading, in so far as it is a contract, cannot be explained
by parol, yet being a receipt as well as a contract, it may in that regard
be so explained, especially when used as the foundation of a suit between the original parties to it.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the N~orthern District

of Illinois, in which court King & Co. had libelled the propeller Lady Franklin, for non-delivery of certain flour.
The libel alleged, that the libellants, in the month of Noveniber, 1863, by their agent, Edward Sanderson, delivered
at Milwaukee, to the steamer Lady Franklin, 340 barrels of
flour, to be transported to Port Sarnia, on the St. Clair River,
for which shipment they received a bill of lading, but that
290 barrels of the flour were never delivered. As a consequence, they claim a maritime lieh on the vessel for the
value of the flour.
The answer denied that the flour in controversy was ever
delivered to the master, or shipped on board of the steamer.
The case was this:
There was, in 1863, a line of steamers engaged in the lake
service from Milwaukee to Port Sarnia, and running in connection with the Grand Trunk Railway. TheLady Franklin
was one of them. But each boat had separate owners, and
there was no joint undertaking that any one of the boats
should be 'responsible for the. breach of a contract or misconduct of another. This line of steamers had a particular

TH

LADY FRANKLIN.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

warehouse in Milwaukee, at which they stopped, and which
was used to receive and store freight for them; one Courtenay was the agent of this warehouse, and be also acted as
agent for the boats in engaging and shipping freight. The
cargo of flour in dispute, which was owned by the libellants, and
of which they were the realshippers, was received by Courtenay
for them, through Sanderson, their agent, with an agreement
to ship it for them on one of this line of steamers; and, in
point of fact, 50 barrels were shipped on the Antelope, one
of the line, and received by the libellants. The remaining 290
barrels, for which the lien is claimed on the Franklin, were
also shipped on the 7th of November by the Water Witch,
another boat in the same fine, and consigned to the libellants, but were not received by them, the boat having foundered at sea. Notwithstanding these shipments, a clerk in
the warehouse, under Courtenay, in the absence of Courtenay, in ignorance that the flour had been previously shipped
on the Antelope and Water Witch, but supposing it still in
the warehouse for shipment, by mistake gave to Sanderson,
the agent of the libellants, a bill of lading.
Attaching the bill to a draft upon the tibellants, for the
value of the flour, Sanderson soon afterwards drew on them
for this value, and they paid the draft. The flour never arriving, they libelled the Lady Franklin, in the District Court
of the district, attaching this bill of lading to their libel.
The District Court dismissed the libel, and the Circuit
Court having affirmed the decree, the case was now here for
review.
Mr. -Robert-Rae,for the appellants:
1. The signing of the bills of lading by the authorized agent
of the vessel, after delivery of the property into his possession and control, binds the vessel, and has the same force
and effect as if signed by the master.*
2. The owner of the vessel is estopped as against a con*

Rawls et al. v. Deshler, 3 Keys, 577; Dows v Greene, 24 New York,

638; Coosa River Steamboat Company v. Barclay, 30 Alabama, 120; Put.
nam v. Tillotson, 13 Mletcalf, 517.

Dec. 1868.]

THE LADY FRANKLIN.'
Argument for the appellee.

signee of the bill of lading, when either has taken it for a
valuable consideration upon the' faith of the acknowledgments which it contains, to deny the truth of the statements
to which he has given credit, by the signature of his agent,
so far as these statements relate to matters which are, or
ought to be, within his knowledge.*
In this case, the consignee advanced on the faith of the
bill of lading.
3. Parol testimony cannot be received in courts of admiralty, any more than in courts of law, to contradict The
terms of a bill of lading.T Nor can courts of admiralty
exercise chancery powers to reform maritime contracts.t
4. When a written contract is attacked on the grounds of
containing some. material mistake, the evidence of mistake
must be very strong. Lord Hardwicke says,§ that in such a
case, he would require "the strongest proof possible," which
words Lord Eldon observes, "leave a weighty caution to
future judges."
And in Shelburne v. Inchiquin,I1 Lord Thurlow demanded
"strong irrefragable evidence."
Mr. Goodwin, contra:
1. A maritime cbntract of affreightment, which shall bind
the vessel to the merchandise, for the due performance of
the contract, commences only with the delivery of the goods
on board, or on a lighter or barge, belonging to and controlled
by the boat, or into the custody of some officer of the boat,
to be carried on board. No such delivery of the flour is
shown in this case. It never was received on board the Lady
Franklin, or into the custody of any officer or agent of the
boat, to be carried on board. Courtenay was the warehouse* Sears v. Wingate, 3 Allen, 103;

Ward v. Whitney, 3 Sanford, 399;

Sutton v. Kettel, 1 Sprague, 309.
j- 3 Greenleaf on Evidence, 402.
$ Andrews v.Essex Insurance Company 3 Mason, 7; The Ives, Newbury,
205.
Langley v. Brown, 2 Atkyn, 203.
1 Brown's Chancery Cases, 340.

TnE

LADY FRANKLIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

man, and received the flour in store as such. He held it as
such warehouseman, not as agent for any, or either, or all
of the different boats running in that line, but like any forwarding merchant, pro hae vice, the agent of the shipper to
forward the merchandise by some of the boats of that line.
In fact, he had forwarded this flour by the Antelope and
W¢ater Witch.
2. It is now well settled, both in English and American
law, that so far as the fact of the receipt of the goods, or the
quantity received, is concerned, the bill of lading is in the
nature of a receipt, not conclusive between the shipowner
and shipper, but open to explanation and evidence of the
real facts.* A false bill of lading, whether by mistake or
fraud, is beyond the power of the master or other agent of
the shipowner, and cannot be made to bind the vessel 9
especially under the circumstances of this case.
3. There is, really, no question of an innocent purchase for
value in this case.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The attempt made in the prosecution of this libel, to charge
this vessel for the non-delivery of a cargo, which she never
received, and, therefore, could not deliver, because of a false
bill of lading, cannot be successful, and we are somewhat
surprised that the point is pressed here.
Courtenay was a warehouseman in MNilwaukee, and, although he acted as agent for the different steamers of the
Grand Trunk line, he did not receive the flour to be sent by
one particular steamer in preference to another. His engagement had this meaning, and nothing more: to forward
the flour with all practicable expedition, by the first suitable
steamer of the line which arrived in port that would carry
it. Having actually shipped it in good condition in advance
of the arrival of the Franklin in port, by seaworthy steamers,
against which nothing is alleged, he discharged his obligations to the libellants. It would be strange, indeed, if the
* Abbott on Shipping, 7th Am. Ed. 324, m;
137, n. 2, and Cases.

1 Parsons' Maritime Law,

Dec. 1868.]

THE LADY FRANKLIN.
Opinion of the court.

owners of the Franklin were made to suffer, because the
common agent of all the boats had, through inadvertence,
given a receipt for merchandise not on the boat, or in the
warehouse even, but which was then on board other boats,
on its way to its destination. The case is not embarassed by
any question of a bondfide purchase on the strength of the
bill of lading, for the libellants themselves were the real
shippers. Such is the claim of the libel, and it is supported
by the evidence, for Sanderson swears the flour belonged to
the libellants, on its delivery at the Warehouse. In so far as
a bill of lading is a contract, it cannot be explained by parol;
but if a contract, it is also a receipt, and in that regard, it
may be explained, especially when it is used as the foundation of a suit between the original parties to it-the shippers
of the merchandise, and the owner of the vessel.
The principle is elementary, and needs the citation of no
authority to sustain it.
In this case the bill of lading acknowledges the receipt of
so much flour, and is primtfacie evidence of the fact. It is,
however, not conclusive on the point, but may be contradicted by oral testimony.
The doctrine that the obligation between ship and cargo
is mutual and reciprocal, and does not attach until the cargo
is on board, or in the custody of the master, has been so often
discussed and so long settled, that it would be useless labor
to restate it, or the principles which lie at its foundation.
The case of the Schooner Freeman v. Buckingham, decided by
this court,* is decisive of this case. It is true the bill of
lading there was obtained fraudulently, while here it was
given by mistake; but the principle is the same, and the
court held in that case that there could be no lien, notwithstanding the bill of lading.
The court say, "There was no cargo to which the ship could
be bound, and there was no contract for the performance of
which the ship could stand as security."
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* 18 Howard, 192.

