480

HoME

OF THE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

come fi'om the plaintiffs in error. It is not of a jurisdictional
character.
Upon a careful examination of the record, it seems to me
doubtful whether any of the testimony in question required
a notice to authorize its introduction,* except that of
Mitchell, which was objected to upon a distinct and different
ground. But, conceding this to be otherwise, under the
circumstances, I think these propositions apply:
1. We are bound to presume that a proper notice was
before the court below. This suggestion derives additional
weight from the fact that the statute requires the notice to
be given to the plaintiff, and does not prescribe that it shall
be filed in the clerk's office, or made part of the record. In
some of the circuits the practice has been heretofore simply
to produce and prove it at the trial.
2. If there were no such notice, it was waived by the
plaintifs in error, and they are concluded by their conduct.t
3. The objection not having been made in the court below,
according to the settled rule and practice of this court, it can
not be made here.t
4. The plaintiffs in error not having made the objection,
this court ought not to make and enforce it for them. They
have not suffered, and do not complain. The interests ofjustice do not require such vicarious and voluntary action on the
part of this court. The counsel for the defendant in error
has had no notice and no opportunity to be heard. I think,
therefore, that the judgment ought not to be reversed.

HOME OF THE FRIENDLESS V. RoUSE.
1. A statute which, for the declared purpose "of encouraging the establishment of a charitable institution," and enabling the parties engaged in
thus establishing it " more fully and effectually to accomplish their

laudable purpose," gave to the institution a charter, and declared by it
* Corning v. Burden, 15 Howard, 252.

j- Laber v. Cooper, 7 Wallace, 569.

1lb.

Dec. 1869.]

HOME OF THE FRIENDLESS v. RousE.

481

Statement of the case.
that "1the property of said corporation shall be exempt from taxation,"
and that an already existing statutory provision, that every charter of
incorporation should be subject to alteration, suspension, or repeal, at
the discretion of the legislature, should not apply to it,
becomes, after
the corporation has been organized, a contract; and its property is not
subject to taxation, so long as the corporation owns it and applies it to
the purposes for which the charter was granted.
2. A State which, after granting such a charter, passes a law, taxing property of the corporation, passes a law violating the obligation of a contract, and, consequently, such its law, is void, under the Constitution.

to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
On the 3d of February, 1853, the legislature of Missouri
passed "an act to incorporate the Home of the Friendless,
in the city of St. Louis." The preamble and one section of
the act were thus:
ERROR

"WHEREAS, it is proposed to establish in the city of St. Louis
a charitable institution, to be called ' The Home of the Friend.'
less,' having for its object, to afford relief to destitute and suffering females, and the affairs of which shall be in the keeping of
ladies, who contribute pecuniary aid to the institution; therefore,
for the purpose of encouraging said undertaking, and enabling the
parties engaged therein more fully and effectually to accomplish their

laudablepurpose,
"Be it enacted, ttc., as follows:
"SECTION 1. All such persons, of the female sex, as heretofore
have or hereafter may become contributors of pecuniary aid, as
hereinafter specified, to said institution, shall be, and they are
hereby, constituted a body politic and corporate, by the name
of 'The Home of the Friendless,' and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, and be capable in law as well to take, receive, and* hold, as to dispose of, as they see proper, all and all
manner of lands, tenements, rents, annuities, franchises, and
other hereditaments and personal property which may be conducive to the objects of said institution; and all property of
said corporation shall be exempt from taxation; and the sixth,
seventh, and eighth sections of the first article of the act concerning corporations, approved March 19th, 1845, shall not apply
to this corporation."
The sections thus referred to provided, that the charter

432

HouE OF THtE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

of every incorporation that should thereafter be granted by
the legislature should be subject to alteration, suspension,
and repeal, at the discretion of the legislature.
The corporation was organized and set in action, and by
gifts, grants, and devises, had acquired a considerable amount
of real estate in St. Louis. A constitution, adopted by the
State, in the year 1865, authorized the legislature to impose
certain taxes, and soon after, the legislature did impose a tax
upon the real property of the Home. The corporation declining to pay, the collector of taxes for the county was
about to levy on and sell its real estate, when the corporation
filed a bill in one of the State courts, praying for an injunction against collecting the taxes, on the ground that they
were illegally assessed, all property of the Home being, by
its act of incorporation, expressly exempted from taxation at
all times. The defendant interposed a demurrer, which was
overruled, and the judgment on the demurrer made final.
The cause was removed to the Supreme Court of the State,
and resulted in the reversal of the judgment of the lower
court, and the dismissal of the bill or petition.
The case was now here for review; the Supreme Court of
Missouri certifying, as a part of the record, that in the determination of the suit there was necessarily drawn in question the construction of that clause of the Constitution of
the United States, which prohibits a State from passing a
law impairing the obligation of a contract, and that the decision was against the right claimed by the complainant, and
was necessary to the adjudication of the cause; thus bringing the case clearly within the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, which gives to this court in such cases a power to examine and affirm or reverse the decision of the State court.
The question was, whether the act of 1853 was a contract
never to tax. If so, the subsequent act was in violation of
that clause of the Constitution which says, that "no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts."
Mr. B. R. Curtis,for the appellant:
1. The charter contains not only an explicit promise on

Dec. 1869.]

HomE OF THE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.

433

Argument in support of the tax.

the part of the State, that whatever property should be
owned by this charity should not be taxed, but, what is very
unusual, if not unprecedented, it contains an assurance that
the legislative power should not thereafter be used to interfere with this franchise.
The discretionary authority which the legislature reserved,
in regard to corporations in general, it is declared, shall not
exist as to this corporation.
The charter in express terms, holds out to the benevolent
persons to whom it is addressed, that, if they will take upon
themselves the burden of organizing this corporation, of
making themselves, and soliciting from others, donations
and grants, and of administering its affairs for the relief of
suffering female poor of the city of St. Louis, the funds thus
obtained, devoted, and held, shall not be diminished by taxation.
2. That the legislature had power to make this contract,
and that when made and accepted it became one of the franchises of this corporation, of which it could not be deprived,
is too well settled to require a citation of numerous authorities.*
Messrs. Dick and Blair, contra:
1. The legislature, hi 1853, for the mere consideration,
that the Home should be established, with no obligations or
duties imposed upon it, had no power to promise that the
State of Missouri should never have the legal authority to
impose a tax upon any property which it might acquire,
and, at the same tinhe, confer upon it power to acquire an
unlimited amount of property. The State may accept a
bonus in place of a tax, or may fix upon a given rate of taxation, and thus, for a consideration, bargain away the power
to levy taxes in the usual way. But this charter makes no
such contract.t
See the cases collected in Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 279-81.
Rector of Christ Church v. County of Philadelphia: 24 Howard, 300;
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co. 10 Id. 511, 535; Commonwealth i.

t

VOL, VIII.

28

434

Homt OF THE FRIENDLESS V. ROusn.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

2. The legislature has not in the act of 1853, declared its
intention to bind the State never to impose any such tax.
The language used does not expressly say that the State
forever is to be bound, and the law Will not imply such
meaning.*
3. The rule of construction applicable to laws relied upon
as contracts, granting to corporations special advantages, to
the detriment of the public, is that they shall be construed
strictly against the corporation.
4. There is no consideration stated in the law for the
release from taxation. The establishment of the institution
by the corporation, was the consideration which made the
grant of the charter binding upon the State, and the contract
to that extent is beyond the control of the State as a contracting party. But the exemption from taxation was a
mere gratuity, intended to last during the pleasure of the
State.t
The legislature of 1853 omitted to provide for any advantage in the future to the State, which should be commensurate with the greater and growing advantage to the institution, which would accrue from the increase of taxes
appropriated to its use with the increase of its property.
The law shields the Home from rendering any account of
the amount of public funds thus devoted to its use, and
authorizes an unlimited increase.
This omission of the legislature, as the agent of the State,
to provide for any commensurate advantage to the State, or
for any check upon the corporation, is fatal to the instrument as a contract. For, first, it will not be held that the
legislature could have intended any such arrangement to
have been perpetual and obligatory as a contract on the
people; and, second, if such was its intention, it had no
Bird, 12 Mass. 443, cited in 24 Howard, 300, 303 ; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 561.
* Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 536, 583; Butler v.
Penn, 10 Howard, 402.
t Plalen v. Virginia, 8 Howard, 163; Bank of Columbia v. Okely, 4
Ni heaton, 235; Aspinwall v. Commissioners, 22 Howard, 364.

Dec. 1869.]

HoME OF THE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.
Opinion of the court.

such legal power as an agent. The cases already cited,
with others, show this.*
5. Retrospective laws divesting rights not secured by con-:
tract may be passed by a Statet
epy.-To suppose that any consideration beyond thed
public objects for which this corporation was created waso
necessary as a basis of a contract is a mistake. The con sideration is found in the nature of those objects, the accept
ance of the charter, and the consequent implied undertakin'
to use its franchises in the way and for the purposes in whiclh
they were granted.
This has been the settled law, of this court since the Dart:,
mouth Gollege ease,J and is fully set'forth anew of lite, in fh
Binghamton Bridge case,ยง as the continuing and niinalterable
judgment of the court.
'
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the -court.
The case is relieved, by the certificate of the Supreme
Court 6f Missouri, of all difficulty on the question of the
jurisdiction of this court, and the important question raised
by the record is, whether the State of Missouri contracted
with the plaintiff in error not to tax its property.' If it did
so contract, it is undisputed that the assumed l'egislation'
under the authority of which the property in controversy
was taxed, impaired the obligation of this contract.
The' object for which the Home of the Friendless was incorporated was to enable those persons of the female sex,
who were desirous of establishing a charitable institution id
St. Louis for the relief of destitute and suffering females, td
carry out their laudable undertaking.
It can readily be seen that a charity of this kind would
* State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 Howard, 378; Commonwealth v. Bird;
12 Massachusetts, 443; Brewster v. Hough, 10 New Hampshire, 139; People
v. Roper, 35 New York, 629; Mott v. Pennsyl ,ania Railroad Co., 6 Casey, 9 ;'
Commonwealth v. Easton, 10 Barr, 442; Gardner v. State, 1 Zabriskie, 557.
t Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 413; Watson v. Mercer, 8 Id. 110;
railroad v. Nesbit, 10 Howard, 401.
: 4 Wheaton, 625.
.
3 Wallace, 73.

436

HomE

OF THE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be of great benefit to the people of St. Louis, and that the
legislature of the State would naturally be desirous of using
all proper means to promote it. The purposes to be attained by such a charity are usually beyond the ability of
individual effort, and require an association of persons who
will themselves contribute pecuniary aid, and are willing to
become solicitors for the contributions of others. Usually
the initiation of such an enterprise is in the hands of a few
persons who need to be clothed with more than ordinary
powers in order to obtain the successful co-operation of others.
In no way could this co-operation be better secured than by
conferring on the corporators the authority to say to the
benevolent people of St. Louis, that their donations in money
or lands, for the relief of the suffering female poor of the
city, would be held by the institution undiminished by taxation.
It was doubtless under the influence of these considerations, and because every government wishes to encourage
benevolent enterprises, that the legislature granted the charter for the Home of the Friendless, and said to the charitable persons engaged in this business, that if they would
organize the society and conduct its affairs, would give themselves and solicit others to give for the common purpose,
"that the property of the corporation shall be exempt from
faxation." This charter is a contract between the State of
Mvissouri and the corporators that the property given for the
charitable uses specified in it, shall, so long as it is applied
to these uses, be exempted from taxation. It follows, that
any attempt to tax it impairs the obligation of the contract.
It is proper to observe, that the immunity from taxation
does not attach to the property after the corporation has
parted with it, but is operative on it while owned by the corporation, and devoted to the uses for which it was originally
given.
It is objected that there is no consideration stated in the
act for the release from taxation, which it is claimed is
necessary in order to uphold the contract. But this is a
mistaken view of the law on this subject.

Dec. 1869.]

HOME OF THE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.

437

Opinion of the court.

There is -no necessity of looking for the consideration for
a legislative contract outside of the objects for which the
corporation was created. These objects were deemed by
the legislature to be beneficial to the community, and this
benefit constitutes the consideration for the contract, and no
other is required to support it. This has been the well-setfled doctrine of this court on this:subject since the case of
.Dartmouth College v. Woodward.
It is contended that the rules of construction applicable to
legislative contracts are more stringent than those which are
applied to contracts between natural persons, and that, applying these rules to this contract, it cannot be sustained as
a perpetual exemption from taxation.
It is true that legislative contracts are to be construed
most favorably to the State if on a fair consideration to be
given the charter, any reasonable doubts arise as to their
proper interpretation ; but, as every contract is to be construed to accomplish the intention of the parties to it, if
there is no ambiguity about it, and this intention clearly
appears on reading the instrument, it is as much the dtity
of the court to uphold and sustain it, as if it were a contract
between private persons. Testing the contract in question
by these rules, there does not seem to be any rational doubt
about its true meaning. "All property of said corporation
shall be exempt from taxation," are the wordsused in the
ict of incorporation, and there is no need of supplying any
words to ascertain the legislative intention. To add the
word "forever" after the word "taxation" could not make
the meaning any clearer. It was undoubtedly the purpose
of the legislature to grant to the corporation a valuable
franchise, and it is easy to see that the franchise would
be comparatively of little value if the legislature, without
taking direct action on the subject, could at its -will, resume
the power of taxation. This view is fortified by the provisions of the general law of the State regarding corporations,
in force at the time this charter was granted, and which the
legislature declared should not apply to this corporation.
The sevenlh section of the act concerning corporations, ap-

438

Homn OF

THE FRIENDLESS V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

proved March 19, 1845, provided that "the charter of every
corporation that shall hereafter be granted by the legislature shall be subject to alteration, suspension, and repeal, in
the discretion of the legislature." As the charter in controversy was granted in 1853, it would have been subject to
this general law if the legislature had not, in express terms,
withdrawn from it this discretionary authority. Why the
necessity of doing this if the exemption from taxation was
only understood to continue at the pleasure of the legislature ?
The validity of this contract is questioned at the bar on
the ground that the legislature had no authority to grant
away the power of taxation. The answer to this position
is, that the question is no longer open for argument here,
for it is settled by the repeated adjudication of this court,
that a State may by contract based on a consideration,
exempt the property of an individual or corporation from
taxation, either for a specified period, or permanently. And
it is equally well settled that the exemption is presumed to
be on. sufficient consideration, and binds the State if the
charter containing it is accepted.*
It is proper to say that the present constitution of Missouri prohibits the legislature from entering into a contract
which exempts the property of an individual or corporation
from taxation, but when the charter in question was passed
there was no constitutional restraint on the action of the
legislature in this regard.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are of the
opinion that the State of Missouri did make a contract on
sufficient consideration with the Home of the Friendless,
to exempt the property of the corporation from taxation,
and that the attempt made on behalf of the State through
its authorized agent, notwithstanding this agreement, to
*New

Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 0

Howard, 133; Piqua Bank v. Knoop, 16 Id. 369; Ohio Life and Trust Co,
v. Debolt, 16 Id. 416; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 Id. 331; Mechanics' and Traders'
Bank v. Thomas, Ib. 384; Mechanics' and Traders' Bank v. Debolt, lb
380 ; McGee v. Xathis, 4 NVWallace, 143.

Dec. 1869.]. THE

WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY v. ROUSE.

439

Opinion of the court.

compel it to pay taxes, is an indirect mode of impairing
the obligation of the contract, and cannot be allowed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded to the court

below, with directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, with MILLER and FIELD, JJ.,
dissented; see the opinion of MILLER, J., infra, p. 441,
in the next case.

NOTE.
At the same time with the case just reported was argued.
and adjudged another in error to the same court. It wa4
the case of
Le-d 498

THE

WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY V. ROUSE,

In which the principles of the case just decided were heml applicable to an
institution of learning.

IN this second case the charter was to the Washington
University, an institution of learning. It was granted on
the 22d of February, 1853, and by the same legislature
which incorporated the Home of the Friendless on the 3d
of that same February. It contained exactly the same provision about freedom of the corporation from taxation and
from liability to have its charter interfered with at the discretion of the legislature, and the case came here under
proceedings similar to those in the last case, and from thq
same court, and was argued by the same counsel, to wit:
Mr. B. .. Curtis for the appellant; Messrs. -Dick and Blair,
contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
There are no material points of difference between the
case just decided and this Case, and the views presented
in that case are applicable to this. The object of the charter

164 667

440

THE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY v. RoUS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the one was to promote a charity, in the other to encourage learning. Both were public objects of advantage to the
country, and which every government is desirous of promoting. Whether the endowment of a charity is of more
concern to the State than the endowment of a university
for learning, is within the power of the legislature to determine. If the legislature has acted in a manner to show that
it considered both objects equally worthy of favor, it is not
the province of this court to pass on the wisdom of the
measure.
On the contrary, it is the duty of the court to carry out
the intention of the legislature, if ascertainable, by applying
to both charters the ordinary rules of construction applicable to legislative grants. In applying these rules to this
charter, we find the existence of the same contract of permanent exemption from taxation, as in the charter of the
Home of the Friendless. The State contracted in the one
case as in the other, not to tax the property of the corporation, using the same words in both charters, to convey its
meaning, and binding itself in the same terms, not to repeal
or modify either charter in that regard. Both charters were
passed by the same legislature, within a few days of each
other, and neither charter is unusual in its provisions, except in this particular. The inference would, therefore, seem
to be clear, that it was the legislative intention that both
should, in this respect, be on an equality. The public purposes to be attained in each case constituted the consideration on which the contracts were based. The charter of the
University, with its amendment (not material to notice, because not affecting this question), having been accepted, and
the corporation, since its acceptance, having been actively
employed in the specific purpose for which it was created,
the exemption from taxation became one of the franchises
of the corporation of which it would not be deprived by any
species of State legislation.
It is urged that the corporation, as there is no limit to its
right of acquisition, may acquire property beyond its legitimate wants, and in this way abuse the favor of the legisla.

Dec. 1869.]

THE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY V. ROUSE.

441

Opinion of Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Field, J., dissenting.

ture, and, in the end, become dangerous, on account of its
wealth and influence. It would seem that this apprehension
is more imaginary than real, for the security against this
course of action, is to be found in the nature of the object for
which the corporation was created. It was created specially
to promote the endowment of a seminary of learning, and it is
not to be presumed that it will ever act in such a manner as
to jeopardize its corporate rights; nor can there be any wellgrounded fear that it will absorb, in its effort to establish a
literary institution of a high order of merit, in the city of
St. Louis, any more property than is necessary to accomplish
that olject. Should a state of case in the future arise, showing that the corporation has pursued a different line of conduct, it will be time enough then to determine the rights of
the parties to this contract, under this altered condition of
things. The present record presents no such question, and
we have no right to anticipate that it will ever occur. It is
enough for the purposes of this suit to say, that so long as
the corporation uses its property to support the educational
establishments forwhich it was organized, it does not forfeit
its right not to be taxed under the contract which the State
made with it.
We cannot see that the case of the University is distinguishable from that of the Home of the Friendless.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the coprt
below, with directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, Mr. Justice FIELD, and myself,
do not concur in these judgments.
It is the settled doctrifie of this court, that it will, in every
case affecting personal rights, where, by the course of judicial proceedings, the matter i properly presented, .decide
whether a State law impairs the obligation of contracts; and
if it does, will declare such law ineffectual for that purpose.
And it is also settled, beyond controversy, that the State

442

THE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY

V. RousE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Field, J., dissenting.

legislatures may, by the enactment of statutes, make contracts which they cannot impair by any subsequent statutes.
It may be conceded that such contracts are so far protected
by the provisions of the Federal Constitution that even a
change iii the fundamental law of the State, by the adoption
of a new constitution, cannot impair them, though express
provisions to that effect are incorporated in the new constitution. We are also free to admit that one of the most
beneficial provisions of the Federal Constitution, intended
to secure private rights, is the one which protects contracts
from the invasion of State legislation. And that the manner
in which this court has sustained the contracts of individuals
has done much to restrain the State legislatures, when urged
by the pressure of popular discontent under the sufferings
of great financial disturbances, from unwise, as well as unjust legislation.
In this class of cases, when the validity of the contract is
clear, and the infringement of it by the legislature of a State
is also clear, the duty of this court is equally plain.
But we must be permitted to say, that in deciding the first
of these propositions, namely, the validity of the contract,
this court has, in our judgment, been, at times, quick to discover a contract that it might be protected, and slow to perceive that what are claimed to be contracts were not so, by
reason of the want of authority in those who profess to bind
others. This has been especially apparent in regard to contracts made by legislatures of States, and by those municipal
bodies to whom, in a limited measure, some part of the legisconfided.
lative function has been
In all such cases, where the validity of the contract is
denied, the question of the power of the legislative body to
make it necessarily arises, for such bodies are but the agents
and representatives of the greater political body-the people,
who are benefited or injured by such contracts, and who
must pay, when anything is to be paid, in such cases.
That every contract fairly made ought to be performed is
a proposition which lies at the basis of judicial education,
and is one of the strong desires of every well-organized

Dec. 1869.] THE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY V. ROUSE.

443

Opinion of Miller, J., the Chief Justice, and Field, J., dissenting.

judicial mind. That, under "the influence of this feeling,
this court may have failed in some instances to examine,
with a judgment fully open to the question, into the power
of such agents, is to be regretted, but the error must be attributed to one of those failings which lean to, virtue's sidei
In our judgment, the decisions of this court, relied upon
here as conclusive of these cases, belong to the class of
errors we have described.
We do nbt believe that any legislative body, sitting under
a State constitution of the usual character, has a right to
sell, to give, or to bargain away forever the taxing power of
the State. This is a power which, in modern political societies, is absolutely necessary to the continued existence of
every such society. While under such forms of government,
the ancient chiefsor heads of the government might carry
it on by revenues owned by them personally, and by the exaction of personal service from their subj.ects, no civilized
government has ever existed that did not depend upon taxation in some form for the continuance of that existence. To
hold, then, that any one of the annual legislatures can, by
contract, deprive the State forever of the power of taxation,
is to hold that they can destroy the government which they
are appointed to serve, and that their action in that regard
is strictly lawful.
It cannot be maintained; that this power to bargain away,
for an unlimited time, the right of taxation, if it exist at all,
is limited, in reference to the subjects of taxation. In all
the discussion of this question, in this court and elsewhere;
no such limitation has been claimed. If the legislature caii
exempt in perpetuity, one piece of land, it can exempt all
land. If it can exempt all land, it can exempt all other
property. It can, as well, exempt persons as corporations.
And no hindrance can be seen, in the principle adopted by
the court, to rich corporations, as railroads and express companies, or rich men, making contracts with the legislatures,
as they best may, and with such appliances as it is knowii
they do use, for perpetual exemption from all the burdens of
supporting the government.

BRONSON v. KIMPTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The result of such a principle, under the growing tendency to special and partial legislation, would be, to exempt
the rich from taxation, and cast all the burden of the support
of government, and the payment of its debts, on those who
are too poor or too honest to purchase such immunity.
With as full respect for the authority of former decisions,
as belongs, from teaching and habit, to judges trained in the
common-law system of jurisprudence, we think that there
may be questions touching the powers of legislative bodies,
which can never be finally closed by the decisions of a court,
and that the one we have here considered is of this character.
We are strengthened, in this view of the subject, by the fact
that a series of dissents, from this doctrine, by some of our
predecessors, shows that it has never received the full assent
of this court; and referring to those dissents for more elaborate defence of our views, we content ourselves with thus
renewing the protest against a doctrine which we think must
finally be abandoned.

BRONSON

v.

KIMPTON.

The cases of Bronson v. Rodes and Butler v. Horwitz (7 Wallace, 229 and 258)
affirmed.

from the Court of Appeals of New York.
Kimpton filed a bill against Bronson in one of the State
courts of New York to compel satisfaction of a mortgage
executed by him to Bronson on the ground that it had been
paid. The mortgage was given to secure a bond for the
payment of a certain sum in gold and silver coin, lawful
money of the United States. The payment relied on was a
tender of United States notes equal in nominal amount to the
sum due on the bond and mortgage. The Supreme Court of
New York held the tender sufficient, and adjudged satisfaction; and this judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and was now here for review.
Mr. J. A. Townsend (by whom the case of Bronson v.
APPEAL

