FURMAN V. INICHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

of contractors; and, in the absence of any provision on the
subject, it would seem to be unreasonable to hold him responsible to renew the service at any future indefinite period.
But it is unnecessary to decide this point.
DECREE REVERSED,

and cause remanded, with directions

to allow one month's pay under the contracts.

FURMAN v. NICHOL.
1. A cause can be removed from a State court into this court under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, whenever some one of the questions embraced in it was relied on by the party who brings the cause here,
and when the right, which he asserted that it gave him, was denied to him
by the State court, provided the record show, either by express averment,
or by clear and necessary intendment, that the constitutional provision
did arise, and that the court below could not have reached the conclusion and judgment it did reach, without applying it to the case in hand.
2. It need not appear that the State court erred in its judgment. It is sufficient to confer jurisdiction that the question was in thecase, was decided
adversely to the plaintiff in error, and that the court was induced by it
to make the judgment which it did.
8. The provision in section 12 of the charter of 1838 of the Bank of Tennessee, "that the bills or notes of said corporation, originally made payable,
or which shall have become payable on demand, in gold or silver coin,
shall be receivable at the treasury of the State, and by till tax collectors
and other public officers, in all payments for taxes or other moneys due
to the State," made a contract on the part of the State with all persons,
that the State would receive for all payments for taxes or other moneys
due to it, all bills of the bank lawfully issued, while the section remained
in force. The guaranty was not a personal one, but attached to the note
It went with the
if so issued ; as much as if written on the back of it.
note everywhere, as long as it lasted, and although after the note was
issued, Section 12 were repealed.
4. Section 603 of the Tennessee dode of 1858, which enacted that besides
Federal money, controllers' warrants, and wild-cat certificates, the collector should receive "such bank notes as are current and passing at
par," did not amount to a repeal of the above quoted 12th section; the
words of the code having no words of negation, the two enactments
being capable of standing together, and implied repeals not being to be
favored.
5. This decision does not apply to issues of the bank while under the control
of the insurgents.

Dec. 1868.].

FURMAN V.

iTiCHOL.

Statement of the case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, the case being
this:
In 1838 the legislaturb of Tennessee chartered a bank,
enacting as follows :

"A bank shall be, and is hereby established in the name and
for the benefit of the State, to be known under the name and style
of 'The Bank of Tennessee,' and the faith and credit of the
State are hereby pledged for the support of said bank."
The capital of the bank, which was five million dollars,
consisted chiefly of the school fund of the State and of surplus revenue of the Federal government. The deficiency
was to be made up by funds raised On the faith of the State.
The dividends which the bank should make were to be applied to common schools and academies, and the bank itself
was to be managed in aid of internal improvements. Any
losses arising to the trust funds used to make the capital
were to be made good by the State. The governor was to
nominate to the General Assembly, for confirmation or rejection, twelve directors, to serve for two years, as officers to
manage its allairs.
The twelfth section of the charter contained this important
provision :
"That the bills or notes of said corporation originally made
payable, or which shall have become payable on demand in gold
or silver coin, shall be receivable at the treasury of this State,
and by all tax collectors and other public officers, in all payments
for taxes, and other moneys due to the State."
The bank went into operation with branches in different
parts of the State, and was employed largely in various ways
as the fiscal agent of the government.
In May, 1858, the legislatureof the State passed an act
to revise the statutes of the State, and so established its
"code."
In this code were certain enactments, thus:
"Section 603. The collector shall receive, in discharge of pub.

FURMAN V. TICHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

lie taxes and other dues to the State, besides the constitutional
and lawful currency of the United States,
"1st. Such bank notes as are current at par in this State.
"2d. Warrants issued by the comptroller.
"3d. Certificates from the county court for killing a wild-cat."
"Sect.41. All public and general acts passed prior to the present
session of the General Assembly, and all public and special acts,
the subject whereof are revised in this code, are hereby repealed."
" Sect. 42. Local, special, and private acts, and acts of incorporation heretofbre passed, are not repealed, unless it be herein so
expressed."
From the character of its organization, the newly incorporated bank was capable of being placed much under the
control of the governor and legislature of the State; and at
the outbreak of the late rebellion in Tennessee, HaI6y 61h,
1861, it passed into the control of the rebel agents, who then
managed to possess themselves of the State government.
They issued its notes to an indefinite amount, advanced immense sums to the rebel State authorities; and when the
Federal army were approaching with superior power, left
the bank, carrying with them its coin, and all its assets, except real estate and some uncollected debts. The batik was
thus ruined, and its bills became largely depreciated.
In February, 1865, the rebel powers being now driven
away, the people of the State reorganized the State government, and declared, in their amended constitution, that "all
notes of the Bank of Tennessee, or any of its branches,
issued on or after the 6th day of May, 1861," were null and
void ; and an act of the legislature in the following June,
repealed by express terms, the already quoted twelfth section
of the chartering statute 7of 1838, which made the notes of
the bank receivable in payment of taxes. Finally came an
act of February 16, 1866, by which the directors were directed to take in payment of debts due to it its notes, "which
were issued prior to the 6th day of May, 1861, and studiously
to refuse and exclude all issues or reissues after that datealso all issues signed by G. C. Torbett; also, all reissues made
after the 6th day of May, 1861, as utterly void."

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN V. NICHOL.
Statement of the case.

In this state of things, with these statutes, relative to the
subject of the sort of money in which taxes, &c., might or
might not be paid upon the statute-book-and with other
statutes of the State in force, which made the privilege of
merchandising taxable, and enacted that any one who wished
to engage in that calling must obtain a license from the clerk
of the county court where he proposed to carry on the business, and give bond that he would pay a certain percentage
on the invoice cost of all goods brought into his mercantile
establishment for sale during the year-one Francis Furman,
of Nashville, who had obtained, in August, 1865, from the
county clerk, a license as a wholesale merchant for the eiisuing year, and now purposed forming a partnership before
the expiration of his license (a purpose which made it necessary for him to discharge his obligation to the State for
the business of the store up to that time), appeared, on the
3d of August, 1866, before the clerk of his county, with
Green, his proposed partner, and tendered to the clerk the
amount due the State for taxes, in the notes and issues of the
Bank of Tennessee, issued prior to the 6th of May, 1861, and
tendered also the bond as required by law, and demanded
that a license be issued to them as wholesale merchants.
But the clerk declined to comply with this request, because
these notes were depreciated, and informed the parties that
he would not issue the license, unless the taxes were paid in
par funds.
Thereupon Furman & Green applied to one of the circuit
courts of the State for a mandamus to compel the clerk to
receive their bank notes.
Their petition, after setting forth the charter of the bank,
and particularly the provisions 'of the twelfth section, the
ownership of the notes, and that they were issued, in conformity with the section just named; and issued "prior to the
6th day of Slay, 1861," alleged the tender to the defendant,
his official character, and his refusal to receive them, "because the sanle were not at par," and issue the license; adding that the "said charter was a contract made with the
people of the State, and every person into whose possession the

FURMAN V.

NICHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

said notes and issues of the said bank might come, that the same
should be received by all collectors of taxes, and in payment
of all dues to the State of Tennessee, and it is not in the
power of the legislature of the said State of Tennessee, to
impair or annul the validity or binding force of said contract." The petition referred to the act of February, 1866,
by which the directors were directed to take in payment of
debts due to it notes issued prior to May 6th, 1861, and to exclude reissues made after that day, and it made the act part
of it, so far as the act might be in conflict with their rights.
But the petition did not state at what time the notes had come into
the hands of the petitioners.
The county clerk demurred:
1. Because the petition did not show a contract between
the State of Tennessee and petitioners, or either of them, that
the notes in question should be received in payment of State
taxes; and,
2. Because it failed to show ownership of the notes before
the passage of the Tennessee code, 1858, with its section
603; or befbre the repealing act of 1865.
The local Circuit Court thought the demurrer bad and
awarded the mandamus, but the Supreme Court of the State
on appeal considered it good, and reversed that decree ; the
judgment having been in these words, and without any assignment of reasons.

"The court being of opinion that there is error in the judgment of the court below, in overruling the demurrer in this
cause, doth order and adjudge that the said judgment be reversed,
and the demurrer sustained, and the petition dismissed."
The case was now brought here on appeal, under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, which gives this court jurisdiction to review decrees in the highest court of the State,
" where is drawn in question the validity of the statute of, or
an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of its
being repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of such their
validity."

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN

v. NIIOL.

Argument for the tax-payers.

Two questions were here argued:
1. Whether under the 25th section just quoted, jurisdiction existed in this court?
2. Whether the act of incorporation amounted to a contract with these petitioners; their petition not showing that
they had themselves received the notes prior to either the
statute of 1858, making the code having section 603; or the
act of 1866, repealing the 12th section of the original charter.
Messrs. B. _R. Curtis, R. L. Caruthers,and G. Hoadley,for
the appellants:
1. As tojurisdiction. That it exists, is plain, since the decision in The Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Company,* a case
decided so late as 1863. There the court says:
"The true and rational rule is, that the court must be able to
see clearly, from the whole record, that a certain provision of
the constitution was relied on by the party who brings the writ
of error, and that the right thus claimed by him was denied."
INow here, if any one will observe the character of the
petition and of the demurrer, it will be as obvious without
argument as with it, that the question raised and decided
was, by necessary intendment, none other than the constitutionality of the act of repeal, as against the plaintiffs, in violation of the contract with the State to receive the notes for
taxes, and the decision in favor of its validity.
2 On merits. The 12th section of the act of incorporation
of the Bank of Tennessee was, until repealed, a contract between the State and every bill-holder of the bank, obliging
the former to receive the bills for taxes. The contract which
we assert arises out of a law. Whatever negotiability and
virtue the legislature intended the bills should have, that
they do have. Now, what did the legislature intend ? The
bills were to be receivable by all tax collectors of the State
for all moneys due it. iReceivable from whom? From the
bearer, of course. The design was to aid the bank substantially, by inspiring the greater confidence in its bills; and
this confidence could be inspired in no way so well as by
1 Wallace, 143.
VOL. VII

4

FURMIAN V. N ICIOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the tax-payers.

attaching to the bills a special virtue, the quality, to wit, that
they should be receivable in paymeut of all debts due the
State; so receivable generally and from every one. We
have at this time a currency of government notes known as
"greenbacks."
The act of Congress authorizing them
enacts that they shall be a legal tender for all debts, public
and private (except for two named),and be receivable in payment of all loans made to the United States. And, as we
know at this time, this provision of the statute is printed on
the back of the notes. No one would doubt that the contract of the Federal government, in regard to these issues,
attaches to the bill. But why does it so attach ? Not in
virtue of the mechanical fact of its being printed on the note,
but in virtue of the statute authorizing the notes, and giving
to them the advantages which it does. The same thing
exists here. If the 12th section of the charter of the Bank
of Tennessee had been printed on all notes of the bank,
it would be conceded that the privilege followed the bills
and attached to them in the hands of every holder. But
the printing of the law on the back of the bill is nothing.
It is the law itself, its having been enacted and enrolled in
the Capitol, which gives the distinctive virtue.
The section 603 of the code did not repeal the twelfth section of the charter. It could repeal it only by a feeble implication. Implied appeals are not favored. Courts, indeed,
would he slow to pronounce in favor of an implied repeal of

a section, which gave value and credit to the issue. of a bank,
that was, perhaps, daily increasing in circulation, and that
had been established with the funds, and for the benefit of
the State itself, to supply a circulating medium to pass from
hand to hand of the people as money.
ff section 603 of the code repealed impliedly section 12
of the charter, of what use was the express repeal of the
same section by the act of 1865 ?
The ease is then decided by lVoodr?fv. Trappall,* as well
as by numerous later eases.t
* 10 Howard, 206.

t Curran v. State of Arkansas et al., 15 Howard, 304, Hawtborne v. Calet,

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN V. NICIHOL.
Argument for the State.

In Woodruff v. Trapnall, where the facts, though resembliung ours, were immeasurably stronger than they, the court
says :
",The guaranty included all the notes of the bank in circulation as clearly as if on the face of every note the words had been
engraved, ' This note shall be received by the State in payment
of debts.' And that the legislature could not withdraw this obligation from the notes in circulation at the time the guaranty
was repealed, is a position which can require no argument."
Jlfessrs. Maynard and Harrison,contra:
1. As to Jurisdiction.-Itis nowhere averred in the petition,
as it ought to have been in order to bring the case within the
twenty-fifth section, that the State had passed a law impairing
the obligation of a contract. Nor can this be inferred by any
necessary intendment from the record. The court below
does not assign any reasons why it sustained the deniurrer.
The record indicates that the main question in that court was,
upon a construction of the act of 188; a question, namely,
whether there was any contract arising out of the twelfth section, as contended for by the plaintiffs, and as to the legal
effect of plaintiffs in error taking the bank issues tendered,
after the act of 1858 and the act of 1865.
If the court decided (as we may remark that in fact it did)
that there was no contract, none at least running with the
note, created by that act, the matter involved the construction of a Tennessee statute by a Tennessee court, not the
validity of any statute; and the matter is not revisable here.*
But looking to the record in a less favorable light, we must
assume that the court may have decided the case upon either
one of the causes set down in the demurrer, viz., that there
was no contract, or that the plaintiffs in error were not entitled to maintain their petition, because they failed to show
that they became the holder of the bank issues prior to the
2 Wallace, 10; McGee v. Mathis, 4 Id. 143; Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy,
1b. 585.
Railroad Company v. Rock, 4 Wallace, 177.

FURMAN v. NICIHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State.

act of 1865, or lastly, that they were not entitled to maintain
their suit, because they did not show they became the holder
of said notes, the issues of the Bank of Tennessee, befbre the
passage of the act of 1858.
It may have decided on any one of these grounds, and not
have decided in favor of a law passed by the State and asserted by the party against whom the decision was given, to
have impaired the obligation of a contract. If this is so, then
there is no jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section.
The decision would have gone off upon the construction
given to these several statutes of Tennessee, particularly to
section twelfth of the charter. But when the construction
alone, and not the validity of a State statute, is involved in
the decision of the State court, no jurisdiction exists under
the twenty-fifth section.* Independently of all which the
judgnient was right-as we show hereafter.
2. On rnerits.-Obviously there was no contract with the
bank, and none with persons who had not yet received the
notes. There is no guaranty on the fice of the note, nor
anything, anywhere, operating like a covenant running forever, with the land. Whatever contract existed arose from
a statute. So long as section 12 remained on the statutebooks unqualified and unrepealed, there was a proposition
of the bank of this sort. It was first to the persons to whom
the notes were first offered by the bank. To them the State
in effect said: "If vou will receive these notes from the
bank, we will receive them from you." And the proposition
was, in fact, repeated whenever the notes were offered to
new parties by the original takers, and a contract was made
whenever by those new parties the notes were accepted.
Thus, if section 12 remained unrepealed and unmodified,
and so long as it did so remain, the notes would go on circulating with all the rights in their holders given by section
12, not because of a guaranty running with the note, for
none was on it, but because as long as the proposition was
continued and accepted, a separate contract was made. But
* Commercial Bank v. Buckingham, 5 Howard, 317.

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN V. NICHOL.
Argument for the State.

the State had a right, without doubt, to repeal or to modify
its propositions, and if, after the modification or repeal, any
person took the notes, he took them with a knowledge of
what was done, and gave credit accordingly.
Now, unquestionably, the act of 1865 did.repeal the twelfth
section of the charter, and, unless the party shows (which
these petitioners do not pretend was the fact in their case),
that he got the notes prior to the repeal, he makes no case
against the State.
2. Independently of this, these petitioners allege that the
notes they tendered were issued prior to May 6th, 1861.
This is not enough. T3e notes, when tendered, having been
below par, as the petition shows, the petitioners should have
alleged that the notes were issued prior to May, 1858, when
section 603 of the code came into force. Admitting the view
of the other side, that the contract attached to the note in
every one's hands, and always, it will not apply to any notes
after the legislature in any way took away the privilege
given by section 12.
N~ow the contract was modified by section 603 of the code.
We need not and do not argue that this section repealed section 12 of the charter. It is enough if it amounts to a
certain modification of it. And this it did. It was in pari
materia with section 12. It was in a code, that is to say in a
statute, making a corpusjuris,or body of the law, in which
all previous provisions on any given subject were comprehended, arranged, enlarged, diminished, qualified, first enacted, or repealed. The section 603 first of all adverts to
one class of money in which, independently of State power,
taxes were payable, viz., constitutional and lawful money
of the United States, and then makes a comprehensive
enumeration, specifying, generally and particularly, both
the sorts of money and the sorts of things in which, by its
authority, the same taxes might also be paid. One of the
provisions-" such bank notes as are current and passing at
par"-included, by pre-eminence, as a matter of then existing
fact, all notes of the Bank of Tennessee; for the notes of no
bank circulated so largely.or were so much confided in. It

FURMAN V. NICHOL.

-

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State.

probably meant specially to include them. It gave the notes
certainly the same value as did section 12 of the charter,
qualifying, however, by a familiar principle of legal hermeneutics, the privileges whenever the notes should cease to
be at par, a condition not in the least anticipated at that
time, but one to which, unhappily, and by extraordinary
events, have since arrived to them.
The fact that we assert section 603 to be but a modification
of section 12 of the charter, answers the question of the
other side as to the act of 1865 repealing expressly that section 12. After the act of 1865, the notes of the Bank of
Tennessee were not receivable at all; not even if they were
at par. Before it and after the enactment of the code, they
were receivable if at par.
3. There is no allegation in this petition that the notes
tendered were lawful issues of the bank. The general allegation in the petition that the notes tendered were issued
prior to the 6th of May, 1861, was not sufficient, because
they may have been reissued after the 6th of May, 1861. It
is evident from the act of February 16, 1866, made part of
the petition, that notes of the bank, althoul dated prior to 6th
of Jiay, 1861, were reissued after that (late. This court will
not validate the acts of rebels and robbers who seized on the
bank and reissued notes in this unlawful manner.
4. We have already said that the contract was one derived
from statute and given to the person who took the note during the existence of the statute. The repealing act of 1865
put an end to the contract. After that date the notes lost
their privilege.
5. If Woodrffv. Trapnall went to the extent of covering
with the privileges of section 12 all the isssues of this bank,
we should ask, in view of the dissent by four very able
judges of that day, including Grier, J., happily surviving, to
review this case. We should insist that the taxing power of
the State could not be irremediably annulled by a legislature
assuming to bind the State to receive mere paper in payment
of its revenues; that the treasury could not thus be helplessly committed to what might prove as worthless as South

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN V.

NICHOL.

Opinion of the court.

Sea certificates, or Confederate paper; that the taxing power
unlimited and unrestrained, was vital, and could not be annihilated by being traded away; that power could not be
constitutionally given to dishonest officers to bind the people
of the State to the burden of redeeming multiplied millions
of their promises, leaving the government, meanwhile, with
no available source of revenue. But Woodruff v. Trapnall is
not this case. The bank there was merely a money-making
money agent of the State. The capital was borrowed on the
credit of the State, and all dividends belonged to it. Here
the capital consisted of certain trust funds, and was itself a
sacred fund, set apart by the constitution of the State, and
invested by public-spirited men, so as to be profitable for the
purposes of the trust. The bank was used as a fiscal agent
and public depositary in promotion of the general objects of
the trust. The provision of the twelfth section was merely
a regulation to govern the revenue officers of the State; a
rule directory to the revenue officers and an authority to
them, protecting them from liability should they receive the
paper and loss ensue. It was not a contract with the holders
of the bank paper, superadded to such conlract, as the
officers of the bank might think proper to make and express
in language upon the paper itself.
In Woodruff v. Trapnall, it was admitted that the State
might repeal the provision giving virtue to the notes, and
that "the emissions of the bank subsequently are without
the guarantee." As in this case, the plaintiffs do not allege
a tender of notes issued prior to the enactment of section
603, that is, prior to 1858, but only of those issued prior to
May 6th, 1861, they have not brought themselves within the
provisions of the section.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The main question involved in this suit is of more importafice than difficulty; but before we proceed to discuss
it, it is necessary to consider the point of jurisdiction which
is raised by the defendant in error. The circumstances
under which this court is .authorized to review the decisions

FURMAN v. NiCHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of State tribunals has been so often considered and decided,
that there is hardly anything left to do, but to apply the
already well-settled legal principles which govern this class
of cases, to a particular record, in order to decide, whether
or not we have jurisdiction to hear and determine the matter
in controversy. It would be useless labor to go through with
the various adjudications of this court on this subject. It is
enough for the purposes of this suit to say, that a cause can
be removed from a State court into this court under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, whenever some one of
the questions embraced in it was relied on by the party who
brings the cause here, and when the right he claimed it gave
him, was denied to him by the State court. It is urged that
the particular provision of the Constitution, which the plaintiffs in error say has been violated in its application to their
case, should be contained in the pleadings, but this is in no
case necessary. If the record shows, either by express averment, or by clear and necessary intendment, that the constitutional provision did arise, and that the court below couhl
not have reached the conclusion and judgment it did reach,
without appling it to the case in hand, then the jurisdiction
of this court attaches. And it need not appear that the State
court erred in its judgment. It is sufficient to confbr jurisdiction that the question was in the case, was decided adversely to the plaintiffs in error, and that the court was induced by it to make the judgment which it did.
Testing the case at bar by these rules, it is apparent that
it is properly here, and must be disposed of on its merits.
Furman and Green, conceiving themselves aggrieved by
the conduct of the county clerk in refusing their tender of
the amount due the State for taxes in the notes and issues
of the Bank of Tennessee issued prior to the 6th May, 1861,
applied to the local Circuit Court for a mandamus to comapel
the county clerk to accept payment of the notes in discharge
of Furman's obligation, and to issue to them a license as
wholesale merchants. The application for the writ proceeded on the theory that the State had, in the passage of
the act creating the Bank of Tennessee, in 1838, made a

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN

V

.

'NrICHOL.

Opinion of the court.

contract with its people to receive these notes in payment
of State taxes, and that it was not in the power of a subsequent legislature to impair the binding force of this contract.
The proceeding was an effort on the part of the plaintiffs
in error to test the question of the validity of the authority
of a public officer of the State, exercising authority under
the State, on the ground that such authority was repugnant
to that provision of the Federal Constitution which forbids
a State to pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract. The purpose of the petition, the issue which it presented and sought to have determined, were as plainly to be
seen, as if the words of the particular constitutional provision relied on had been inserted in it, and the obnoxious
legislation spread out at length. All courts take notice,
without pleading, of the Constitution of the United States,
and the public laws of the State where they are exercising
their functions.
It is insisted that the petition should have averred that the
State had impaired, or by some act attempted to impair, the
obligation of a contract, but this does sufficiently appear by
necessary intendment, for it is alleged that Furman was the
owner of the notes and entitled to have them received for
taxes, by virtue of a contract with the State; that he bad
tendered them to the defendant, who refused to receive
them, and that it was not in the power of the legislature to
impair the validity of this contract.
The mandamus was asked for to enforce a contract-to
act directly on Nichol, the clerk and collector, who was exercising an authority under the State. What is plainer than
that this proceeding impeached this authority, iii its application to their case, because of legislation construed by this
officer as depriving Furman of his right to pay his State
taxes in notes of the Bank of Tennessee. If so, then
the petitioners, insisting on the protection of the Constitution, drew in question both the validity of State legislation
and the authority of the State officer; and unless the record
discloses that the Supreme Court of Tennessee denied relief.

FURMAN V. NICHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

on other than Federal grounds, it is perfectly manifest that
we are compelled to take jurisdiction of this cause.
But to proceed a step further. The cause was heard on
the petition and a demurrer, admitting its truth, but denying its sufficiency.
There were three principal defences to the relief asked,
specified in the demurrer, as was required by the Tennessee
code of practice.
These were, first, that the twelfth section of the act incorporating the Bank of Tennessee, did not constitute a
contract. Secondly, that there was no contract, because the
said twelfth section was repealed by implication by section 603
of the code of 1858, and there was no averment that the
notes were issued befbre that time. The third and last defence was, that the petition did not show that the plaintiffs
became the owners of the notes before the direct repeal of
the twelfth section by the legislature, in 1865. What possible
difflerence can it make, in deciding the question of jurisdiction, on which of these three grounds the Supreme Court of
Tennessee based their judgment? The right and duty of
this court to hear' and determine this case does not depend
on our ability to prove that the Supreme Court of Tennessee
was wrong in its judgment. Whether that judgment was
right or wrong, it is reviewable here, if it necessarily drew
in question the validity of a State statute, or of an authority
exercised under it, on the ground of the repugnancy of the
statute to the Constitution of the United States. That it
did do this there would seem to be no doubt.
The defence really amounts to this, either that the alleged
contract did not exist, or if it did, that there has been no
legislation that impairs it.
Whether it be true or false, depends on the construction
to be given the laws of the State, which are claimed as proving the making of the contract and its violation.
If so, this court decides for itself, whether the construction
which the court below gave to these different statutes was
correct or incorrect; and we are required to reverse, under
the twenty-fivth section of the Judiciary Act, if we find that,

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN V. NICHOL.
Opinion of the court.

under an error of construction, that court has adjudged that
no contract has been impaired. To do otherwise, would be
to surrender to the State courts an important trust confided
to this couf't by the Constitution.
Without pursuing the subject any further, it is clear from
the record that the Supreme Court of Tennessee, in dismissing the petition fo'r mandamus, necessarily adjudged that there
was not at the time such a contract as the plaintiff, Furman,
claimed authorized him to make the tender to the clerk, of
the notes of the Bank of Tennessee. The jurisdiction of
this court is, therefore, complete, and the case must be decided on its merits.
The State of Tennessee, through its legislature, in 1838,
thought proper to create a bank "in its name and for its
benefit." It was essentially a State institution. The State
ownel the capital and received the profits; appointed the
directors, and pledged its faith and credit for its support.
This would seem to have been enough to establish the
credit of the institution on a firm basis, and to inspire
confidence in the value of its notes, so.that they would obtain a free circulation among the people as money. But the
legislature, in its anxiety to insure for these notes a still
greater confidence of the community, went further, and
provided that they should be receivable at the treasury of
the State, and by all tax collectors and other public officers,
in all payments for taxes and other moneys due the State.
It will be readily seen, that nothing could have been better
calculated to accomplish the purpose the legislature had in
view than the incorporation of this guaranty into the charter
of the bank. It assured the free circulation of their notes,
gave them a credit over the issues of other banks, and furnished a security to those who held them against any serious
in the vicissitudes of trade, the bank itself should
loss, if,
become embarrassed; for, annually, they would be enabled
to use the notes at their par value in the payment of their
taxes.
That this guaranty was, until withdrawn by the State, .a

FURMAN

v.

ThCHOL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contract between the State and every note-holder of the
bank, obliging the State to receive the notes for taxes, cannot
admit of serious question.
The State was engaged in banking, and like othr corporations engaged in the same business, desirous of using all
legitimate means to increase the profits of the enterprise.
The profits of a bank of issue depend in a great measure on
the ability of the bank to keep its currency afloat. The
longer the bills are withheld from redemption the greater
Every additional
the remuneration to the corporation.
guaranty thrown around the bills, affecting their security
and increasing the uses to which they can be put, aftbrds
necessarily additional inducements for the people in whose
hands they fall to keep them, and not return them to the
counter of the bank for redemption in specie. What so
natural as that the intelligent legislators of 1838, knowing
all this, should say to every person discounting a note, or
taking it in the ordinary transactions of life, "If you will
not return this note for redemption, we will take it from you
for taxes? It is true you can demand specie for the bills,
and so can the State demand specie for taxes, but if you will
forego your right the State will do the same, and consent to
receive from you, in lieu of specie, for the taxes due her, the
notes of the bank." In such a transaction the benefit is
mutual between the parties. The bank gets the interest on
the notes as long as they are unredeemed, and the holder of
the bills has a ready and convenient mode of paying taxes.
The State did, therefore, in the charter creating the Bank of
Tennessee, on good consideration, contract with the billholders to receive from them the paper of the bank for all
taxes they owed the State. Until the legislature, in some
proper way, notifies the Wublic that the guaranty thus furnished has been withdrawn, such a contract is binding on
the State, and within the protection of the Constitution of
the United States.
An attempt is made to restrict the operation of this
guaranty to the person who, in the course of dealing with
the bank, receives the note, and not to extend it turther.

Dec. 1868.]

FURMAN V.

TICHOL.

Opinion of the court.

Such an interpretation would render the guaranty of comparatively little value, and defeat the object which we have
attempted to show, the legislature designed to accomplish by
it. The guaranty is in no sense a personal one. It attaches
to the note-is part of it, as much so as if written on the
back of it; goes with the note everywhere, and invites every
one who has taxes to pay to take it.
The quality of negotiability is annexed to the notes in
words that cannot be misunderstood, and which indicate the
purpose of the legislature, that they should be used by every
one who is indebted to the State.
It is contended that the promise of the State was withdrawn in 1858, by section 603 of the code of that year-not
in express terms, but by necessary implication. Courts do
not favor repeals by implication, and never sanction them if
the two acts can stand together. The provision of the code,
which is deemed inconsistent with the continuance of the
promise of the State, directs the kind of funds which collectors shall, after that time, receive for taxes. The legislature thought fit to confer upon the people the privilege of
paying their taxes in the issues of other banks that were at
par. As these issues were in circulation at the time, it was
doubtless thought a wise policy to allow the people to pay
their taxes in them, and as long as they were at par the
State could not be the loser. This policy was adopted for
ihe convenience of the people. There are in the statute no
words of negation, saying that no funds other than those
specified in the section shall be received. But we are to
construe the differeht sections of the code together in order
to arrive at the meaning of the legislature. In doing this,
we find that where acts of incorporatiou.are not expressly
repealed, they are, in terms, saved from repeal by section 42
of the code. As there was no attempt in the code to interfere with the charter of the Bank of Tennessee, it follows
that it was saved from repeal, and of course, that the guaranty
contained in the twelfth section of the act of its incorporation
was still continued. That the legislature so understood it
receives additional confirmation from the consideration, that

FURMAN v.

I

NiOHOL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

this guaranty was expressly withdrawn in 1865.
draw it then if it was withdrawn in 1858 ?

Why with

The effect of the repealing act of 1865 remains to be con
sidered. It is true the State had the right at any time t(
withdraw its guaranty, but it is equally true that it must b(
done in such manner as not to impair the obligation of it,
contract with the note-holders of the bank. That this re.
pealing act operated on all the issues of the batik after it,,
date cannot be doubted, but the question with which w(
have to deal is, what effect did it have on the notes of thE
bank issued prior to its passage? It is conceded that thest
plaintiffs are entitled to the relief they ask, if the defendant
was obliged to receive the notes which were tendered. The
tender was made in the notes of the batik, issued prior to
the 6th day of May, 1861, which were in conformity to its
charter, and were payable to bearer. It does not appear
when the notes came to the hands of the plaintiffs-whether
befbre or after the repealing act-but it is a fair presumption,
in the absence of any averment to the contrary, that it was
after the date of that act.
It is insisted, as the bank during the rebellion was under
the control of the usurping; government, and was used by
it for unlawful purposes, that it should have been stated that
the notes tendered were the lawful issues of the bank. But
it would seem the pleader had this state of things in his
mind, and wished to avoid the issue it involved, fbri he avers
that the notes were issued prior to the 6th day of May, 1861,
the time when the State endeavored to sever its relations with
the Union. The presumption is that the bank, before that
time, issued its notes properly; and, in addition, it is stated,
as we have seen, that they were issued in conformity with the
twelfth section of its charter. It follows from this statement,
necessarily, that they were the lawful issues of the bank. If
the defeidant wished to contest this point lie should have answered, and not by his pleading, admitted the truth of the
petition a id all legal inferences that could be drawn from it.
This case is, therefore, not embarrassed by the changed

:Dec. 1868.]

DURMA

V. NfICHOL.

Opinion of the cotirt.

relation of the State after 1861; and the discussion of the
principles which settle this case are not intended by the court
to apply to the issues of this bank while under the control
of the insurgents, because such a case is not before us, and
it will be time enough to decide the important questions
which it would present when it arises, if it ever should arise.
It is contended that the repealing act took from those
persons who did not at the time hold the paper of the bank,
the right to acquire it afterwards, and use it to discharge
their debts to the State.
This construction of the contract would limit the obligation to the person, and withdraw it from the paper. If, as
we have endeavored to show, the guaranty attached to the
paper itself, aud could not be withdrawn from it, then it follows that the notes in circulation at the time of the repeal
are not affected by it, and carry with them the pledge of the
State to be received in payment of taxes by every bona fide
holder.
It would seem to be unnecessary to discuss any further
the principles which lie at the foundation of this case, as
they were settled in Woodruff v. Trapnall, heretofore decided
by this court. The mere statement of that case will show
its similarity to this. In 1836, the State of Arkansas, in the
charter of a bank (owned and controlled by the State), declared that the notes of the institution should 'be received
in payment of all debts due the State. Some years afterwards this provision of the charter was repealed. After its
repeal, Trapnall, acting in behalf of the State, sued out an
execution upon a judgment which the State had obtained
against Woodruff, a defaulting treasurer. Woodruff met the
demand of the writ by a tender (which was refused) of the
notes of the bank, but whether he got these notes before or
after the repealing act was passed, did'not appear.. On this
state of things, Woodruff, to test his right to pay his debt
in the paper of the bank, applied for a writ of mandamus
against Trapnall, which was denied him by the State court.
The case was brought here, as this is, under the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act, and this court held that the

MEMPHIS CITY V. DEAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

undertaking of the State to receive the notes of the bank,
constituted a contract between the State and the holders of
the notes, which the State was not at liberty to lreak , and
that the tender of notes issued prior to the repealing act was
good. It was also held, that it made no diflerence whether
the debtor had the notes in his possession when the repealing act was passed or not.
It will thus be seen that lVoodr'uff v. T,.,pT/, and this
case, in all important features, are alike.
An attempt has been made to distinguish the cases, because in the Tennessee bank trust funds were embarked in
the enterprise ; but if the State thought proper to use them
il this manner, it took care to pledge its faith to supply any
deficiency that should arise through the mismanagement of
the bank. It is difficult to see how the employment of these
funds made the bank atty less a State institution, for it was
created expressly for the benefit of the State, who had the
exclusive management of it, and agreed to support it. But
if we eoneedc that the State did wrong in using these funds
in banking, eon that tcnel even to justify her in breaking her
promise to the note-holders of the bank?
Enough has been said to show, as the result of our views,
that section 28 of the charter of the Bank of Tennessee constituted a contract with the holders of the notes of the bank,
and that it was not inthe constitutional power of the legislature to repeal the section so as to affect the notes which, at
the time, were in circulation.
reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter a judgment
JUDGMENT

AWARDING

T11E WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

MEMPHIS CITY v. DEAN.
1. A question which is pending in one court of competent jurisdiction cannot be raised and agitated in anothier by adding a new party and raising
a new question as to him along with the old one as to the former party.
The old question is in the hands of the court first possessed of it, and is

