Dec. 1868.]

MILLS V. SMITH.

Statement of the case.

MILLS V. SMITH.
1. Under the recording acts of Illinois, which enact that deeds shall take
effect as against creditors and subsequent purchasers from the time that
they are filed of record, it is necessary, in order to defeat a subsequent
purchaser for value, of an unrecorded title, that he have notice of the
previous conveyance, or of some fact sufficient to put a prudent man upon
inquiry.
2. A recital in the record of another deed, made seventeen years after a first
one unrecorded, between the original grantor and the heir-at-law of the
original grantec-tha grantor having already sold to a second purchaser,
whose deed is recorded-" that a sale had been made to such original
grantee, but no deed given, or if given, lost," is not constructive notice
to a third person purchasing of such second grantee.
3. If either such second grantee, or purchaser from him, have been a purchaser in good faith, without notice, then such purchaser is protected.
4. Courts of the United States are not bound to give instructions upon specific
requests by counsel for them. If the court charge the jury rightly upon
the caso generally, it has done all that it ought to do.
5. If a court below have given such proper instructions on the questions of
law in a case, and submitted the facts to the jury, there is no remedy in
this court for a mistake of the jury.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois: the case was this:
In 1818, the United States issued to one Parmely, a soldier
of the war of 1812, and then residing in Connecticut, a
patent for a tract of land it Illinois. In 1887, he sold the
land to Edwin Lacy, and receiving payment in full for it,
executed and delivered to Lacy, at the time, a regular deed.
This deed, however, was never recorded, and at Lacy's death, in
1848, his family had no information respecting the deed, or
the location of the land. Lacy left one son and only heir
named Andrew.
On the 14th of August, 1854, a certain Benjamin Lombard,
n dealnr in military bounty lands, went to Parmely, in Connecticut, and having had some conversation with him as to
whether any former deed had been made by him, obtained
from him for the consideration of $19.56, a quit-claim deed
to James Lombard. Benjamin Lombard took also from
Parmely (indorsing it on the deed), an affidavit proving

MILLS V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case

Parn.ely's identity with the original patentee, and stating
"that the deed which be has this day given for his bounty
land is the only deed ever given by him fbr the said claim
This deed was recorded August 28, 1854.
whatsoever."
On the 14th of November, 1854, a brother of Lacy, the
original purchaser, having heard of Lombard's visit to Parmely, and of his obtaining a quit-claim deed for the tract,
which he had understood, years prior, had been sold to his
deceased brother Edwin, applied to Parmely and obtained a
deed conveying the land to Andrew Lacy, son and only heir
of Edwin Lacy, deceased. This deed contained a recital and
statement to the eftet that the land had been sold to .Edwin Lasy,
in his lifetime, and about October 1st, 1850, and paid for; that
no deed had been given, or, if there had been, that it was lost.
This deed was recorded November 25, 1854.
Andrew Lacy died soon afterwards, and by his will his
title to the land went to one Mills.
James Lombard sold his right in the tract, for which he
had got the deed already mentioned from Parmely, to a certain Smith, on the 7th December, 1855; the deed not being
recorded until October 12th, 1858.
Mills now brought ejectment against Smith, and on the
trial the original deed from Parmely to Edwin Lacy (the
fact of having made which, or any like which Parniely by
affidavit on the back of his deed to Lombard had denied),
accidentally turned up.
The question was whether, under the recording acts of
Illinois, which enact that deeds shall take effect, as against
creditors and subseq uent purchasers, from the time that they
are filed of record, the title was to be regarded in Mills, or
whether in Smith?
The only important witnesses were Parmely himself and
Benjamiii Lombard, who had procured the deed for James
Lombard. " Both testified in regard to the facts of the case
as already given; Parniely testifying that befre he made
the deed to James Lombard, Benjamin Lombard, a stranger
to him, had hunted himi out, and represented to him that
there was no deed to Edwin Lacy on record; a rprescnta.

Dec. 1868.]

MILLS V. SMITH.
Statement of the case.

tion which led him, Parmely, to believe that he might never
have made a deed to Edwin Lacy, but only have handed
over to him the patent issued by the government; that this
Lombard stated to him that the town where the land lay
wanted to get soldiers' rights, and would give $17 a deed,
but no more; that the land had been sold for taxes, and
that the right of redemption had expired, but that the town
would give something. "I told Mir. Lombard," the witness
continued, "that I had disposed of the land to Edwin Lacy,
who was then dead, and that I did not know that I could
give anybody else a deed. Mr. Lombard said that he did
not know whether I could or. not. If I would only give
him a deed he would give me the money." The deed was
then executed; Lombard, according to Parmely's testimony,
himself drawing the affidavit, indorsed on it, and reading it
to Parmely, who did not examine it to see if it was read correctly or not.
Benjamin Lombard's testimony went to prove that Parmely
had assuredhim repeatedly that he had never before made
a deed to the land to any one; that although he had been
negotiating a trade for it with Edwin Lacy, the trade had
fallen through from Lacy's not doing as he agreed to do;
that Andrew Lacy, the son and heir, had been to him to get
a deed, which he, Parmely, refused to give him, for the
same reason that he had not conveyed the land to Edwin
Lacy, namely, that no consideration had been paid.
The court below (Davis, J.) charged the jury in substance
as follows: refusing to give instructions in pursuance of
specific requests; considering that these did but request in
a specific form, instructions which in substance had been
already given in a general one.
GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY: It is not

controverted, on the part

of the defendant, that the title as shown in the plaintiff would
be a good, legal, subsisting title, independent of the recording
laws.
Now as respects the defendant's title. The deed of 1837,
from Parmely to Lacy, not being recorded at tke time the deed
was made by Parmely to Lombard, the firo'. question to be de-

MILLS V.

S-MITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

termined is, was Lombard a bondfide purchaser within the meaning of the recording laws ? Those laws provide that every (Iced
shall take effect from the time it is filed for record, as against
creditors and subsequent purchasers without notice. This (Iced,
not having been recorded, from Parmcly to Edwin Lacy. in
August, 1854, the first question fbi- you to determine is, was
Lombard a purchaser without notice of the previous conveyance made to Edwin Lacy, and had he paid value fbr the land?
The evidence upon thatt point consists of the tetimony of
Parmely and Benjamin Lombard. Of course, Benjamin Lombard being the agent of James Lombard in his purchase, notice
to Benjamin is notice to James.
It is necessary that James Lombard, or Benjamin Lombard,
should have had notice of the previous conveyance to Edwin
Lacy, or of some fact sufficient to put a prudent man upon
inquiry. In other words, there must have been good fuith on
his part when he niade the purchase.
And the question for you to determine upon all the testimony is, whether there was any knowledge brought home to
Benjamin Lombard that there had been a transfer. legal or
equitable, made of this land to Edwin Lacy? If that fact was
brought home to him, or if any fact that would warrant a prudent man in coming to the conclusion that there was a valid
transfer, then lie could not be said to be a purchaser in good
faith; and of course the registry laws did not protect him in
the purchase. If be was a purchaser in good faith, then it
makes no difference whether Smith was or was not, because his
purchase protects Smith-he having purchased f'om hini; but
if he was not a purchaser in good Ihith, the next question is,
did Smith 1)urchase in good faith? The same rule is applicable
substantially to him as to Benjamin Lom bard, the agent of James
Lombard. it is necessary that he should have purchased the
land and paid the money for it without knowledge of this previous deed. If lie knew of the existence of this previous deed
to Edwin Lacy, or had knowledge of any fact which would satisfyr a prudent man, so as to put him upon inquiry that there
was a valid sale made to Edwin Lacy before he paid the purchase-money, then he could not, be considered a purchaser in
good flith.
But it is contended, on the part of the plaintiffs, that inasmuch as there was a deed from Parmely to Andrew Lacy on

Dec. 1868.]

MILLS V. SMITH.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

record on the 25th of November, 1854, and as that recited that he
had made a conveyance or transfer of the land to Edward Lacy
many years before, that was constructive notice to the defendant of the conveyance. I am hardly prepared to admit that
as a rule of law. If he bad read this deed or the record of it,
or saw it; if, in other words, he had actual notice, then, as a
matter of course, he would be bound by it, so far as such recital
could bind him; but I hardly think that the fact it was simply
on record would be constructive notice to him, so as to prevent
him from being a bondfide purchaser.
Parmely, when the recital was made, had no title to the
land, according to the record, because t he deed to James Lombard was recorded the 28th of August, 1854, before this deed
was made to Andrew Lacy, and it would be a hard rule, it
seems to me, to hold that the recital in a deed attempting to
convey land which the man had no right to convey, would
operate as constructive notice to a third party. Therefore, the
court instructs you that it was necessary that Smith should
have had actual notice of this previous deed, or of some fact
which would satisfy a prudent man that there had been a transfer of the land, before he paid the purchase-money. If he had,
then he would not be a purchaser protected by the registry
laws; if he had not this notice, then he would be protected,
whether Lombard was a bondfide purchaser or not, because the
rule you will understand to be this, as counsel on both sides
admit, that the defendant can protect himself by showing that
Lombard is a bond fide purchaser without notice, or that he
himself is a bond fide purchaser without notice.
Gentlemen, you will see that the question turns entirely on
the vie-w you take, from the evidence, upon the fhet whether
these two persons are purchasers in good faith, without notice;
that is, Benjamin Lombard and the defendant. If either of
them is apurchaser in good faith, then the defendant is protected. You must find that they both had knowledge, before
you can find a verdict for the plaintiff. If they both had knowledge of this pre-existing title, then, as a matter of course, the
plaintiff's title stands good, otherwise not.
VERDI T AND JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. B. S. Smith, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the

MILLS V.

SMITIT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

testimony of Lombard was incredible, and was in fact denied
by Parmely; that Lombard was not a purchaser for value,
but a prowling hunter of old soldiers' rights; that the court
ought to have charged specifically that a deed obtained upon
such filse representation was absolutely void, and that notice
of a sale was sufficient, independently of notice of a deed;
that the charge as to the effect of the recital did not come
up to the testimony, for that it was plain that Lombard had
been looking through the records, and had seen the recital
on them of a former deed.

Hr. H. A. Wead, contra, argued that no one could read
the evidence and fail to arrive at the conclusion that neither
had notice of the prior conveyance to Andrew Lacy, because
the existence of that conveyance was not known until'after
the commencement of this suit; that if either Lombard or
Smith were innocent purchasers, then Smith was to be protected; that it was well settled, both in England and in this
country, that if a person purchased for a valuable consideration with notice, he might shelter himself under the first
purchaser.*
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The counsel, in their arguments in this case, seem to
have forgotten that this court have no right to order a new
trial becau3e they may believe that the jury may have erred
in their verdict on the facts. If the court below have given
proper instructions on the questions of law, and submitted
the facts to the jury, there is no further remedy in this court
for any supposed mistake of the jury.
On examining the charge of the court below, we find a
clear exposition of the legal questions arising in the case.
The jury were properly instructed that the deed of Parmely, the patentee, to Edwin Lacy, in 1837, would confer a
good legal title on the plaintiff independently of the recording
laws. But as this deed was not recorded, the question to be
* Leading Cases in Equity, by Hare and Wallace, pages 50 and 99, and
cases there cited.

Dec. 1868.]

STANSBURY V.

UNITED

STATES.

Syllabus.

determined was, whether the defendant, who claimed title
under the same patentee, through a deed dated 14th of August, 1855, and recorded, was a bonadfide purchaser without
notice, and had paid value for the land. It was contended
that a recital in a deed from Parmely to one Andrew Lacy,
after the deed to James Lombard was recorded, and under
'which the defendant claims, would operate as constructive
notice to a third party. But the court instructed the jury
that it was necessary that the purchaser should have actual
notice of the previous deed, or of some fact which would satisfy a prudent man that there had been a transfer of the land.
In conclusion, after various, propositions for specific instructions, amounting substantially to the instructions already
given, the court summed up by telling the jury, that they
would see that the question turned entirely on the view
which they might take from the evidence, upon the fact
whether Benjamin Lombard, Jr., and the defendant were
purchasers in good faith, without notice. "If either of them
is a purchaser in good faith," said the court, "then the de-.
feudant is protected. You must find that they both had
knowledge before you can find a verdict for the plaintiff.
If they both had knowledge of this pre-existing title, then,
as a matter of course, the plaintiff's title stands good, otherwise not."
We see no error in these instructions.
After having thus correctly submitted the case to the consideration of the jury, the court were not bound to answer
a catechism of questions which could only confuse their
minds and lead to erroneous conclusions.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

STANSBURY V.

UNITED STATES.

1. The act of Auguste23d, 1842, declaring that no officer of the government
drawing a fixed salary, shall receive additional compensation for any
service, unless it is authorized by law, and a specific appropriation made
to pay it, is not repealed by the twelfth section of the Act of August 26,
the same year.
VOL. VIII.
8

