Dec. 1868.]

STANSBURY V.

UNITED

STATES.

Syllabus.

determined was, whether the defendant, who claimed title
under the same patentee, through a deed dated 14th of August, 1855, and recorded, was a bonadfide purchaser without
notice, and had paid value for the land. It was contended
that a recital in a deed from Parmely to one Andrew Lacy,
after the deed to James Lombard was recorded, and under
'which the defendant claims, would operate as constructive
notice to a third party. But the court instructed the jury
that it was necessary that the purchaser should have actual
notice of the previous deed, or of some fact which would satisfy a prudent man that there had been a transfer of the land.
In conclusion, after various, propositions for specific instructions, amounting substantially to the instructions already
given, the court summed up by telling the jury, that they
would see that the question turned entirely on the view
which they might take from the evidence, upon the fact
whether Benjamin Lombard, Jr., and the defendant were
purchasers in good faith, without notice. "If either of them
is a purchaser in good faith," said the court, "then the de-.
feudant is protected. You must find that they both had
knowledge before you can find a verdict for the plaintiff.
If they both had knowledge of this pre-existing title, then,
as a matter of course, the plaintiff's title stands good, otherwise not."
We see no error in these instructions.
After having thus correctly submitted the case to the consideration of the jury, the court were not bound to answer
a catechism of questions which could only confuse their
minds and lead to erroneous conclusions.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

STANSBURY V.

UNITED STATES.

1. The act of Auguste23d, 1842, declaring that no officer of the government
drawing a fixed salary, shall receive additional compensation for any
service, unless it is authorized by law, and a specific appropriation made
to pay it, is not repealed by the twelfth section of the Act of August 26,
the same year.
VOL. VIII.
8

STANSBURY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. An agreement by the Secretary of the Interior to pay a clerk in his department for services rendered to the government by labors abroad-the
clerk still holding his place and drawing his pay as clerk in the Interior-was, accordingly, held void.

from the Court of Claims, the case being thus:
A statute of the United States, passed August 23, 1842,*
enacts as follows:
APPEAL

"No officer, in any branch of the public service, or any other
person, whose salary, pay, or emoluments, is, or are fixed by law
or regulations, shall receive any additional pay, extra allowance,
or compensation, in any form whatever, for the disbursement of
public money, or any other service or duty whatever, unless the
same shall be authorized by low, and in the appropriationtherefor
explicitly set forth, that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation."
A subsequent statute,t one of the 26th August, in the
same year, enacts by its twelfth section, as follows:
" That no allowance or compensation shall be made to any
clerk or other officer, by reason of the discharge of duties which
belong to any other clerk in the same or any other department;
and no allowance or compensation shall be made for any extra
services whatever, which any clerk or other officer may be required to perform."
With these two enactments in force, Stansbury, being at
the time a clerk in the Department of the Interior, was appointed
in 1851, by the Secretary of the Interior, at that time Mr.
Stuart, an agent to proceed to Europe and prepare for the
department an account of the London Industrial Exhibition.
In this employment, he was engaged in London, and subsequently at Washington, in the preparation of his report, for
a term of seventeen months; but during all the time of this
service, held his place and drew his pay as a clerk in the Interior Department. The secretary promised, in writing, to
pay his expenses and allow him a reasonable compensation
for his services, The actual expenses of the agency were
*

2; 5 Stat. at Large, 510.

t 1b. 52-5.

Dec. -1868.]

STANSBURY

V.

UNITED STATES.

Argument for the appellant.

paid, but on his return, the Secretary of the Interior, now
Mr. MeLelland, declined to pay him anything more. He
accordingly brought suit to recover from the United States
the value of his services. The Court of Claims decided that
the claim was within and barred by the act of August 23d,
1842, and was not removed therefrom by the act of the following 26th, and ordered judgment to be entered for the
United States.
Hr. Caverly, for the appellant:
If the act of 28d August had, at its passage, any reference
to clerks in the departments, it has been repealed so far as it
related to them by the subsequent enactments of the 26th
August. Itis repealed, because these latter enactments prescribe a rule involving the same subject-matter; and make,
in fact, an independent rule for clerks or other officers in the
departments; refusing pay to them for doing the duties of
other clerks or officers, and refusing pay to them for extra
services of any kind. While the latter act declares that a
clerk shall have no pay for services done in the place of
another, and no extra allowance whatever, it also, in its
legitimate effect, declares that a clerk may have pay on a
special contract in a distinct service, foreign to clerkships
and extra allowances. These statutes were never intended
to prevent the holding of two distinct officesat the same time
the one entirely foreign to the other.* The statute of August
23d, 1842, is in derogation of private rights, and is, especially
as against an equitable, meritorious claim, to be construed
strictly.'
Mr. Stansbury having begn commissioned to perform a
distinct agency in a foreign country., such agency is to be regarded as inconsistent with a clerkship here. His clerkship
for the time was in fact suspended during his nine months
absence. If his family, during that period, have received
his pay as clerk,'there may have been a mistake in law of
the department. But that does not-preclude Mr. Stansbury
* Converse v. United States, 21 Howard, 470.
j Smith v. Spooner, 3 Pickering, 230.

STANSBURY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from asking remuneration for the services which he did
perform.
It is a fair presumption of law, that the Secretary of the
Interior, in creating an agency to perform the service in
question acted legally. It would not become the government
to appoint Mr. Stuart to be Secretary of the Interior, and
hold him forth to the world as worthy of public trust, and
then to turn around and repudiate his contracts, and deprive
innocent individuals of reasonable pay for services performed
for the government, in violation of a contract officially made
by him.
If, however, that government officer mistook his powers
in sending Mr. Stansbury abroad, it was a mistake of the
government. Her officer may have been ignorant of the law,
but the government cannot now, by any principle of law, go
behind her own act to avoid payment of the just obligation
which her act induced.

Mr. Talbot, for the Attorney- General, contra:
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant insists that the written promise of the Secretary to pay him the value of his services, is a binding
obligation on the government. But this is not so, for rio
authority of law existed for the promise. The secretary
could not pay the claim, because there was no appropriation
to pay it, and he was not authorized by Congress to create
an agency to perform the service in question.
ie undoubtedly acted in good faith with Stansbury, and supposed
that Congress would approve the mode he adopted for obtaining useful information, and ratify his proceedings; and
his promise, under the circumstances, must be considered as
a dependent one, to take effect, if Congress appropriated
money to enable him to comply with it. Congress having
failed to make the appropriatio'n, the secretary was justified
in refusing to pay the claim.
But he was justified in his refusal on another ground. The
payment of the claim was forbidden by positive law.
The second section of the act of August 23d, 1842, declares

Dec.1868.]

STANSBURY V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

that no officer of the government, drawing a fixed salary,
shall receive additional compensation for any service, unless
it is authorized by law and a specific appropriation made to
pay it. When Stansbury was appointed in 1851, this law was
in force, and afibrded notice to all employees of the government, of the policy of Congress on the subject to which it
relates. The law was passed to remedy an evil which had
existed, of detailing officers with fixed pay to perform duties
outside of their regular employment, and paying them for
it, when the government was entitled, without this double
pay, to all their services. The law prohibited, and was intended to do so, the allowance of such claims as these, made
by public officers, for extra compensation, on the ground of
extra services.
But the appellant insists, if the above act embraced clerks
in the departments, its operation has been withdrawn from
them by the twelfth section of the act of 26th of August, 1842.
It is difficult to see how this conclusion is reached, because
this section refuses to pay clerks or other officers in the departments for doing the duties of other clerks or officers, and
refuses, further, to pay them for extra services of any kind.
There is no inconsistency between the provisions of the
t'o acts, which were passed within a fevr days of each other,
and were parts of a system, intended for the guidance of
those in the employ of the government. These provisions
furnished notice to all in authority, that in no event could
clerks in the departments be paid for doing the work of their
fellow-clerks, nor could they be paid for any other service,
unless it was authorized by law, and followed by an appropriation to pay for it.
Stansbury's appointment was not authorized by law, nor
was there any appropriation to pay for the services which he
expected to render the department.
It follows, therefore, that the transactidn between Secretary Stuart and himself was in violation of the statute, and
cannot be the foundation of an action.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

