WARING V. THE MAYOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

WARING v. THE MAYOR.
The Bay of Mobile being included within the statutory definition of the port
of Mobile, contracts for the purchase of cargoes of foreign merchandise
before or after the arrival of the vessel in the said bay, where the goods
by the terms of the contract, are not to be at the risk of the purchaser
until delivered to him in said bay, do not constitute the purchaser
an "importer," and the goods so purchased and sold by him, though in
the original packages, may be properly subjected to taxation by the
State.

to the Supreme Court of Alabama; the question
involved arising uponcthat clause of the Constitution which
ordains that "no State shall lay any imposts on imports, or
exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
ERROR

The facts were these:
The city of Mobile is situated on the west bank of the
Mobile River, a short distance above its entry into the Bay
of Mobile. The bay stretches about thirty miles below the
city, and is connected with the Gulf of Mexico by a narrow
strait. The town of Mobile, by an act of Congress passed
22d July, 1813,* was designated as the only port of entry for
a collection district bounded by West Florida on the east,
and Louisiana on the west, and comprising the bays, inlets,
and rivers emptying into the gulf. The Bay of Mobile is a
part of this district. Vessels anchor twenty-five miles below
the city, and are unladen there upon lighters, which bring
their cargoes to the town. Those coming from Great Britain
frequently bring a cargo of salt, and cargoes of this kind are
generally sold in advance of their arrival, or as soon as they
reach the bay, before bullk is broken, or they are unloaded.
In this state of commercial practice one Waring was in
the habit of buying and selling salt thus imported. His
custom was to purchase the entire cargo, which came in
sacks, before the goods were entered at the custom-house,
and usually before the arrival of the vessel, or while it was
* 3 Stat. at Large, 35.

Dec. 1868.]

WARING V. THE MAYOR.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

'

in the lower bay. When it arrived in the lower bay, he
furnished his own lighters, and took the cargo from off the
vessel. Until the time of such delivery the risk remained
in the shippers. The consignees made the entries, presented
the invoices and bills of lading, made the necessary deposit
of coin for the estimated amount of the duties, and procured
the permits; and when the duties were finally liquidated as
required by law and the regulations of the Treasury Department, they adjusted and paid the balance.
When Waring sold the salt he sold it in the original
packages, to traders, in large quantities and for re-sale.
In the year 1866, the corporate authorities of Mobile imposed a tax formunicipal purposes upoall sales of merchandise in that city, and claimed of Waring a tax upon the sales
of salt that he had made for six months preceding the date
of the ordinance, under its conditions. He refused to pay,
assigning for a reason that the salt dispOsed of by him was
an import from a foreign country, and that the sales being
made by him in the way they were, in the original packages, were still an "import;" and- thus under the clause
of the Constitution above quoted, he was not liable. The
mayor arrested and fined him. The chancellor on a bill
filed declared the tax illegal. The Supreme Court of the
State on appeal held otherwise.
They did not regard
Waring as an importer, and considered that the constitutional prohibition upon the States to levy duties or taxes on
imports had no application to him.
Waring accordingly brought the cause here for review.
1ft. J. A. Campbell,for Waring, the plaintiff in error (a brief
of A. P. Hamilton being filed) :
This court has decided, in Brown v. 81ae of Marylavd,*
that under no form or pretence can any State levy any tax
upon an article imported into or exported from that State;
that all such proceedings by the State are absolutely null;
that till articles imported from abroad have lost their character of "an import," and have become incorporated with
* 12 Wheaton, 419; and see Almy v. California, 24 Howard, 169.

WARING v. THE MAYOR.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

the great mass of property, within the State, they are not
subject to the jurisdiction of State authority. We rest upon
the doctrine of these cases, and contend that, on the facts of
this case, the right of interference by the State of Alabama
had not arisen, as to this property or its proceeds.
The learned counsel then proceeded to argueThat as the cargoes were purchased before their arrival or
while the vessel was in the lower bay, and as the same were
brought by Waring to the city, where they were weighed and
the duties settled and paid, that he was'to be regarded as an
importer, and that his sales of the salt, in the original packages, were exempt from State taxation, under that clause of
the Constitution which ordains, that no State shall," lay any
imposts or duties on imports."
That this prohibition is universal, and applies to the thing
imported, and has no reference to the person who may be
the importer.
That this is a prohibition which Congress cannot waive or
impair, except on condition that the tax be paid into the
common treasury of the Union.
That the tax in this case was designed for municipal purposes, and had no reference to any inspection laws, and has
no sanction from the consent of Congress.
That the port of entry was the city of Mobile, and that
the salt was landed as the property of Waring.*
Mr. P. Phillips, contra, maintainedThat the city of Mobile is not the port of entry, but that the
port is definod in the act of 22d July, 1813, and includes
the whole bay, with the rivers, creeks, and inlets emptying
into the Gulf of Mexico.
That whether the cargoes were contracted for before or
after the arrival of the vessel in the bay was unimportant, as
in either case, they remained wholly at the risk of the shipper
or his consignee, until they were safely delivered to the
lighters of Waring in the Bay of Mobile.
* United States v. Vowell, 5 Crunch, 368; Meredith v. United States, 13
Peters, 486; Arnold v. United States, 9 Crunch, 104; Conard v. Insurance
Company, 1 Peters, 386; 6 Id. 263.

Dec. 1868.]

WARnING

v. THE MAY1OR.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

That until this delivery, neither the condition nor the
weight or number of the sacks could be ascertained, and until this was done, it remained uncertain what was to be paid.
That the rule is the same in the civil as in the common
law, "Res petit domino." Here the risk of Waring did not
attach, until the importation had become complete by the arrival
of the vessel at her destined port. He could in no sense be
regarded as the owner until his risk commenced.*
The case of Brown v. Maryland, so much relied on by opposite counsel, maintains the right of the importer,to sell free
from all State intervention, but it also decides that when the
importer has sold, the subject of the sale is taxable in, the
hands of the purchaser, and it is of no sort of consequence
whether it retains fhe original form in which it was imported
or not. Merchandise, in the original package, onde- sold by
the importer, is taxable as other property-t
If the act of importation was complete, which it here' was,
before Waring became the owner of the goods, there, was
necessarily an importer. The exemption from State taxation applied to him. It" cannot be applied to his vendee,
without a double exemption; such an exemption would be
absurd.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion ofthecou.rt.
Merchants and traders, engaged in selling merchandise in
the city of Mobile in the State of Alabama,. are required by
an ordinance passed by the corporate authorities, to pay a tax
to the city equal to one-half of one per cent. .on the gross
amount of their sales, whether the merchandise was sold. at
private sale or at public auction; and if they were so engaged the six months next preceding the 1st day of April,
1866, they were also required, within fifteen days thereafter,
to return, under oath, to the collector of taxes, the gross
amount of their sales during that period of time; and the
1 Troplong Com. de ]a Vente, 86-88; Magee v. Billingsley, 3 Alabama,
689; Tarling v. Baxter, 6 Barnewall & Cresswell, 360; Simmons V. Swift,,5
Id. 857.
t Pervear v. Commonwealth, 5 Wallace, 479.
8
voi. viir.

114

WARING

v. TiiL MAYOR.

[SLip. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

provision was, that if any such merchant or trader neglected
or failed to make such return, he should be subJect to such a
fine, not exceeding fifty dollars per day, as the mayor of the
city might impose for each day's failure or refusal.
Sales of merchandise were made by the complainant within
that period to a large amount, and he was duly notified that
he was required to make return, under oath, of the gross
amount of such sales, and having neglected and refused to
comply with that requirement within the time specified iii
the ordinance, the mayor of the city caused a summons to
be issued and duly served, commanding the complainant to
appear before him, as such mayor, to answer for such neglect, but he refused to obey the commands of the summons,
and thereupon a warrant was issued, and he was arrested and
brought before the mayor to answer for such contempt; and,
after hearing, he was sentenced to pay a fine of fifty dollars
for a breach of the before-mentioned ordinance. Subsequently, a second notice of a similar character was given,
and the complainant still neglecting and refusing to make
the required returns, he was again summoned to appear before
the mayor to answer fbr the neglect, but he refused a second
time to obey the commands of the precept, and, thereupon,
such proceedings were had that he was again found guilty
of contempt and was sentenced to pay an additional fine of
fifty dollars.
Regarding these proceedings as unwarranted, the complainant filed a bill in equity against the mayor and tax-collector
of the city, in the local Chancery Court, in which he prayed
that the respondents might be enjoined from collecting the
fines adjudged against him, and from any attempt to collect
the tax, and that the tax might be adjudged to be null and
void. Proofs were taken and the parties were heard, and the
final decree of the Chancellor was, that the complainant was
entitled to the relief asked, and that the injunction should be
made perpetual; but that decree, on the appeal of the respondents to the Supreme Court of the State, was, in all
things, reversed, and the Supreme Court entered a decree
that the bill of complaint should be dismissed. Whereupon

Dec. 1868.]

WARING v. THE MAYOR.
Recapitulation of the case in the opinion:

the complainant in the Chancery Court sued out a writ of
error, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, and'removed the cause into this cotirt.
Exemption from State taxation in this case is claimed
by complainant upon the ground that the sales made by him
were of merchandise, in the original packages, as imported
from a foreign country, and which was purchased by him, in
entire cargoes, of the consignees of the importing vessels before their arrival, or whilb the vessels were in the lower
harbor of the port.
By the terms of the act of the 22d of July, 1813, it is provided, "that from and after the 1st day of August next, the
town of Mobile shall be and the same is he reby established
the sole port of entry for the district, including the shores,
waters, and inlets of the bay and river Mobile, and of the
other rivers, creeks, inlets, and bays emptying into the Gulf
of Mexico, east of the said river Mobile, and west thereof,
to the eastern boundary of the State of Louisiana."*
Mobile is the sole port of entry of the district, and next to
New Orleans, is the largest cotton market in the United
States, but vessels of large draft cannot cross the inner bar,
and, consequently, are compelled to anchor in the lower
harbor, some twenty or twenty-five miles below the city.
Small vessels, such as can cross the inner bar, go up to the
wharves to discharge and receive cargo, but large vessels,
such as are usually employed to transport.cotton, find their
only anchorage in the lower harbor, where they are unloaded
on their arrival, and where they receive their cargoes for the
return voyage. Loading and unloading are accomplished by
means of lighters, which sometimes are farfiished by the
ship and sometimes by the shipper, for the purpose of loading, and sometines by the importer, and sometimes by the
vendee of the merchandise, for the purpose of unloading,
and for transporting the same to the private stores of the
purchasers or the public warehouses.t
Ships frequently go there in ballast for cargoes of cotton,
* 3 Stat. at Large, 35.
t The Bark Edwin, 1 Clifford, 325; Same Case, 24 Howard, 389.

116

WARING

r. THE

MAYOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and those going there for that purpose from Liverpool frequently carry salt, using it in many cases as ballast instead of
the articles more usually employed, which do not pay freight.
Such shipments are made by the owners or charterers of the
vessel, and the salt, whether stowed as cargo or used as ballast,
is usually consigned to the agents of the vessel. Purchases of
salt imported under such circumstances were made by the
complainant to a very large amount, and the record shows that
he sold the salt at his place of business in the city to traders
and large consumers in the original packages. The contracts to purchase were made before the goods were entered
at the custom-house, with the consignees of the salt, sometimes before and sometimes after the arrival of the vessel at
the anchorage in the lower harbor, but the terms of the
contract in all cases were that the risk should continue to be
in the shipper until the salt was delivered to the complainant
over the side of the vessel into his lighters. He agreed to
furnish the lighters and to bring them alongside of the vessel,
and the contract was that the salt, when it was transshipped
into the lighters of the complainant, became his property,
and he assumed the risk and expense of transporting the
same to the wharf and from thence to his own warehouse or
place of business; but if the goods were lost before such
delivery the agreement to purchase was not obligatory.
Viewed in the light of these conceded facts the defendants
contend that the complainant was not the importer of the
salt; that the salt was imported by the owners of the vessel,
and that the sale of the salt as made by the consignees to
the complainant was a sale of imported merchandise.
Goods imported from a foreign country are required to be
entered at the custom-house of the port where the vessel
voluntarily arrives with intent to unlade the cargo, and the
settled law is that no one but the owner or consignee, or in
case of his sickness or absence, his agent or factor, is authorized to discharge that obligation.*
The MIary, 1 Gallison, 206; The Boston, Ib. 239; United States v Lyman, 1 Mlason, 482; 1 Stat at Large, 655; Conrad v. Pacific Insurance Co., 6

Peters, 262; Gray v. Lawrence, 3 Blatchford, 117.

Dec. 1868.]

WARING

v.

THE MAYOR.

Opinion of the court.

Importers of foreign merchandise must conform to the
requirements of law and the regulations of the Treasury
Department. American ships are forbidden to bring goods
from any foreign port into the United States unless the
master thereof shall have on board a manifest in writing,
signed by the proper person, describing the goods and the
vessel, and containing the name of the port where the goods
were taken on board, and the name of the port for which the
same are consigned or destined.*
Masters commanding any such ships, laden with such
goods, on their arrival within four leagues of our coast, or
within any of the bays, harbors, ports, or inlets thereof, are required, upon demand, to produce such manifest to such officer
of the customs as shall come on board their ship, for his inspection, and it is made the duty of the said officer of the customs
to certify "the fact of compliance with that requirement and
the day when it was so produced. Next requirement is that
the master shall, within twenty-four hours after the arrival
of any such ship at any port established by law, or within
any harbor, inlet, or creek thereof, repair to the office of the
chief officer of the customs and make a report of the arrival
of the vessel. He may, if he sees fit, present his manifest at
the same time, but if he omits so to do, the requirement is
that he shall, within forty-eight hours, make a further report
in writing to the collector of the district, which report shall
be in form and shall contain all the particulars contained in
the manifest.t
Imported goods may be entered for consumption or for
warehousing, but it will not be necessary to refer to the
course of proceeding when the goods are deposited in warehouse, as all the importations in this case were entered for
consumption. Such entry must be in writing and must be
made to the collector of the district within fifteen days after
the required report is filed by the master. The form of the
entry is prescribed by law and by the regulations of the
Treasury Department, and the provision is that the owner
* I star. at Large, 644.

f 1 b, 649.

WARING V. THE MAYOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

or consignee making the entry shall also produce to the collector and naval officer, if any, the original invoice or invoices
of the goods, or other documents received in lieu thereof or
concerning the same, in the same state in which they were
received, with the bills of lading for the importation.*
Goods imported in any ship or vessel from any foreign
port or place are required to be landed in open day, and the
express provision of law is that none such shall be landed or
delivered from such ship or vessel "without a permit from
the collector and naval officer, if any, for such unlading and
delivery."t Congress therefore has prescribed the rule of
decision, and while that provision remains' in force, no goods
brought in any ship or vessel from any foreign port or place,
unless falling within some exceptional rule, can lawfully be
unladen or delivered from any such ship or vessel within the
United States without a permit from the collector for such
unlading or delivery; and the 62d section of the same act provides "that all duties on goods, wares, and merchandise imported shall be paid or secured to be paid before a permit shall
be granted for landing the same;" which shows to a demonstration that all the salt in this case was imported before the
property in the same became vested in the complainant.t
Authority to grant a permit does not exist until the duties
are paid or secured to be paid, and the duties are never paid
or secured to be paid before the goods are imported, nor
before they are entered for consumption. Before the permit
is received by the inspector on board the ship or vessel, no
one has authority to remove the hatches or to break bulk,
but the cargo is under the charge of the officer of the customs. Following the notice of the arrival of the vessel and
the exhibition of the manifest, the next step is to make the
entry, which should always be accompanied by the invoice
and bill of lading. Examination of the entry is usually made
by the entry clerk, and if found to be correct, the collector
proceeds to estimate the duties "on the invoice, value, and
quantity," and if the estimated amount of duty is paid or se* 1 Smt.

t lb. 66.3.

;,t Large, 65(.

Gei. Reg. (1857), 145
1 lb. u73.

Dec. 1868.]

WARING V.

THE MAYOR.

Opinion of the court.

cured to be paid as required by law, the collector certifies the
invoice and grants a permit in due form for the delivery of
the cargo, first designating the packages, one in ten, to be
sent to the public store for examination, and marking the
same on the entry, invoice, and permit.*
Reference need not be made to the subsequent proceedings
of the appraisers, weighers, and gaugers, preparatory to the
liquidation of the duties, as no one pretends that any of those
acts can be performed before the goods are imported.
In order to obtain a permit to discharge the salt into the
lighters in this case, the proof is full to the point, that a deposit of coin had to be made at the custom-house by the
consignees, and that the duties were finally .paid by them as
liquidated, after the true weight of the salt was ascertained
by the return of the weighers. They made the entries, presented the invoices and bills of lading, made the necessary
deposit of coin for the estimated amount of the duties, and
procured the permits; and when the duties were finally liquidated as required by law and the regulations of the Treasury
Department, they adjusted and paid the balance.
Whether the contracts to purchase were made before or
after the vessel arrived in the bay is quite immaterial, as the
agreement was, that the risk should continue to be in the
owner or consignees until they delivered the salt into the
complainant's lighters, alongside of the *vessel. Delivery,
under the terms of the contract, could not be made before
the vessel arrived, nor before the salt was legally entered at
the custom-house, as the hatches could not be removed for
any such purpose until the permit was received from the
collector.
Undoubtedly goods at sea may be sold by the consignees
to arrive, and if they indorse and deliver the bill of lading
to the purchaser, and he accepts the same under the contract
as the proper substitute for the actual delivery and acceptance of the goods, the effect of the transaction is to vest a
perfect title in the purchaser, discharged of all right of stop* Gen. Reg. (1857), 145.

WAintiNG v. Turn MAYOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

page in transitu on the part of the vendor and indorser of the
bill of lading.*
Nothing of the kind, however, was done in this case. On
the contrary, the agreement was, that the loss, if before the
delivery of the goods into the lighters, should fall on the
shippers. Influenced by these considerations the court is of
the opinion that the shippers or consignees were the importers of the salt, and that the complainant was the purchaser
of the importers, and the second vendor of the imported
merchandise.
Opposed to that view is the suggestion that goods are not
regarded as having been imported into the United States
until the vessel transporting the same from the foreign
market has arrived at some one of our maritime ports with
the intent to unlade the cargo. Where the voyage is not
ended, and there is no obstruction to prevent its being continued, tile
rule in that behalf is as contended by the complainant.
Decided cases to that effect are quite numerous and decisive,
as applied in controversies involving the inquiry, whether
the goods imported in a given case are affected by a new
law or the repeal of an old one, whereby import duties are
increased or diminished.t
Well-founded exceptions, however, exist to that general
rule, and among the number is one created by the 85th
section of the principal collection act.t
By that section it is provided that where a ship or vessel
shall be prevented by ice from getting to the port or place
at which her cargo is intended to be delivered, the collector
of the district may receive the report and entry of such ship
or vessel, . . . and grant a permit for unlading or landing the goods imported, at any place within his district,
Audenried v. Randall, 16 American Law Register, 664; Newsom v.
Thornton, 6 East, 41; Pratt v. Parkman, 24 Pickering, 42.
t United States v. Vowell, 5 Cranch, 372; Schooner Mary, 1 Gallison,
209; The Boston, lb. 245; United States v. Arnold, 1 lb. 353 ; Same v.
Lindsey, 1 Ib. 365; Harrison v. Vose, 9 Howard, 881; United States v.
Lyman, 1 Mason, 482; Meredith v. United States, 13 Peters, 494.
1 1 Stat. at La ge, 694.

Dec. 1868.]

WARING V.

THE MAYOR.

Opinion of the court.

which shall appear to him most convenient and proper.
Variations from the usual course of proceedings in such
matters are also necessarily made at all the ports and places
where lighters are required in loading and unloading ships
and vessels engaged in commerce and navigation.
More than half a century has elapsed since the act of
Congress was passed establishing the town of Mobile the
sole port of entry for that district, and the record furnishes
abundant reason to conclude that the course of proceedings
throughout that entire period, in respect to imported goods
brought there from foreign countries in ships and vessels
whose draft was such that they could not cross the inner bar,
has been the same as that heretofore described. Permanent
as .the obstruction to navigation is, the case is much stronger
even than the one for which provision is made in the principal collection act, and after such long acquiescence by all
interested in the course pursued by the officers of the customs, the court is of the opinion that the proceedings may
well be sustained.
Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes, and the Constitution also provides that no State shall,
without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts or
duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely
necessary for executing its inspection laws, with a view to
raise a revenue for State purposes. The State of Maryland
passed a law requiring all importers of foreign articles,
enumerated in the law, and other persons selling the same
by wholesale, before they should be authorized to sell the
imported articles, to take a license, for which they were
required to pay fifty dollars, and in case of refusal or neglect,
the provision was, that they should forfeit the amount of the
license tax and be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars.*
Subsequently an importing merchant, resident in the State,
refused to pay the tax, and the State court sustained the
validity of the State law, and imposed on him the penalty
* Brown v. Miaryland, 12 Wheaton, 437.

WARING

v. Timu

MAYOR.

[SpCt
[Sup.
Ct.

Opinion of the court.

therein prescribed. Dissatisfied with the judgment he removed the cause into this court by writ of error, and this
court hell, Marshall, C. J., giving the opinion of the court,
that the State law was a tax on imports, and that the mode
of levying it, as by a tax on the occupation of the importer,
merely varied the form in which the tax was imposed without varying the substance; that while the articles imported
remained the property of the importer in his warehouse in
the original forms or packages in which they were imported,
a tax upon them was too plainly a duty on imports to escape
the prohibition of the Constitution, but the court admitted
that whenever the importer has so acted upon the thing
imported that it has become incorporated and mixed with
the mass of property in the country, it must be considered
as having lost its distinctive character as an import, and as
having become subject to the taxing power of the State.
Sales by the importer are held to be exempt from State
taxation because the importer purchases, by the payment or
the duty, a right to dispose of the merchandise as well as to
bring it into the country, and because the tax, if it were held
to be valid, would intercept the import, as an import, in the
way to become incorporated with the general mass of property, and would deny it the privilege of becoming so incorporated uitil it should have contributed to the revenue
of the State.*
But the sales of the goods imported in this case were
made by the shippers or consignees, and the complainant
was the purchaser, and not the first vendor of the imported
merchandise, and it is settled law in this court that merchandise in the original packages once sold by the importer
is taxable as other property.t
When the importer sells the imported articles, or otherwise mixes them with the general property of the State by
breaking up the packages, the state of things changes, as
was said by this court in the leading case, as the tax then
* Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 443; Almy v. California, 24 Howard.

173
t Pervear v. Commonwealth, 5 Wallace, 479.

Dec. 1868.]

WOODRUFF

V.

PARRAM.

Statement of the case.

finds the articles already incorporated with the mass of property by the act of the importer.
Importers selling the imported articles in the original
packages are shielded from any such State tax, but the
privilege of exemption is not extended to the purchaser, as
the merchandise, by the sale and delivery, loses its distinctive character as an import.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

WOODRUFF V. PARHAM.
The term "import," as used in that clause of the Constitution which says,
that "no State shall levy any imposts or duties on imports or exports,"
does not refer to articles imported from one State into another, but
only 'to articles imported from foreign countries into the United States.
Hence, a uniform tax imposed by a State on all sales made in it, whether
they be made by a citizen of it or a citizen of some other State, and
whether the goods sold are the produce df that State enacting the law or
of some other State, is valid.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Alabama. The case being
thus:
The Constitution thus ordains:

"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States."
"1NoState shall levy any imposts or duties on inports or exports."
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the immunities and privileges of citizens of the several States."
'With these declarations of the Constitution in force, the
city of Mobile, Alabana, in accordance with a provision in
its charter, authorized the collection of a tax for municipal
purposes on real and personal estate, sales at auction, and sales
of merchandise, capital employed in business and income
within the city. This ordinance being on the city statutebook, Woodruff and others, auctioneers, received, in the
course of their business for themselves, or as consignees and

