DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

[Sup. Gt.

Syllabus.

syringe; but, becoming satisfied that the other form was the
best, recommended it in their specification accordingly.
They are protected, however, against the use of any form, as
will be seen by the authorities referred to, that embodies
substantially their ideas and mode of operation.
On the question of novelty there are two specimens of
syringe produced by the defendants that are chiefly relied on
as disproving it: one called the Maw syringe, and the other
the Thiers. The first differs from the patentees' in this, that
the cylindrical bulb, or chamber, is made so rigid both in
the material and from its metallic ends, or heads, that it is
not sufficiently elastic to be adapted to practical use; and
for this reason it failed and went out of the market.
The Thiers syringe differed from the patentees' in this,
that part of the bulb or chamber is metal, and part rubber;
and the elastic portion is aided by a spring inside of the
chamber. There is, also, an air-chamber attached to the
delivery pipe. The whole construction and arrangement is
different from the patentees', as they have dispensed with the
metal portion of the bulb, the spring, and the air-chamber,
and substituted a simple India-rubber bulb.
The rest of the proof on this point is conflicting, and we
agree with the court below, that the weight of it is decidedly
with the complainant.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

]. If, with a full knowledge of the facts concerning it, a person ratify an
agreement which another person has improperly made, concerning the
property of the person ratifying, he thereby makes himself a party to it,
as much so as if the original agreement had been made with him. No
new consideration is required to support the ratification.
2. When evidence tends to prove a contract of a certain character, asserted
by a party before a jury, a court should either submit the evidence on

the point to the consideration of the jury, or if, in the opinion of the
court, there are no material extraneous facts bearing on the question,

and the contract relied on must be determined by a commercial cor-

Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY V. GREGG.
Statement of the case.

respondence alone, then interpret this correspondence, and inform the
jury whether or not it proves the contract to be of the character contended for by the party.
8. Accordingly, this court reversed a judgment, and ordered a venire de novo
in a case where, in its opinion, the evidence below tended to prove a ratiflcation and adoption by one person of a contract made by another, which
ratification and adoption, the defendant maintained that the evidence
did prove, or, at least,tend to prove. This court, however, in the reversal, carefully avoided the expression of any opinion as to whether
the evidence, which it said tended to prove such ratification and adoption, did, or did not actually prove it.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The controversy grew out of the last of three shipments
of pork products, in January, 1865, to Drakely & Fenton, of
Baltirfiore, by McCabe & Co.; of Chicago. Drakely &Fenton had agreed to receive, on consignment, from McCabe &
Co., hams, shoulders, prime and new pork; to sell the property at the highest market price, and to advance, on each
shipment, at certain specified rates. In pursuance of this
understanding, McCabe & Co. made two shipments, one of
barrelled meat, and the other of shoulders, in tierces, on
which they drew drafts in favor of Gregg & Hughes to the
amount of $59,000 which were paid.
Soon after this the hams were sent. On the day succeeding their shipment, the Baltimore firm received a telegram,
which was followed by a letter from Gregg & Hughesi of
Chicago, claiming title to all the property, and requesting
that the bills of lading for the hams might not be negotiated
until the whole matter was properly adjusted; and, until then,
Drakely & Fenton did not know that Gregg & Hughes had
any interest in the property consigned to them. It seemed,
from Gregg & Hughes's letter, that they had furnished McCabe & Co. with money to cut and pack hogs, and had taken
in security, the warehouse receipts on all the pork products,
which afterwards came into the possession of Drakely &
Fenton. The intervention of Gregg & Hughes resulted in
nothing more being paid to McCabe & Co., and in a final
direction from McCabe & Co. to Drakely & Fenton, to place

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the proceeds of all the pork products consigned to them, to
the credit of Gregg & Hughes.
It appeared, from the conduct of the parties, that there
was no apprehension, until long after Gregg & Hughes had
intervened, that the portion of these products, covered by
the two first shipments, would not bring, when sold, enough
to reimburse Drakely & Fenton for what they had advanced
on them. But it so happened, in the vicissitudes of trade,
that the hog market greatly declined, and that the proceeds
of the pork and shoulders were inadequate to repay the money
which was advanced 'upon them. The hams having sold for
a large sum over charges and advancements, Drakely & Fenton insisted that they were entitled to a lien on the proceeds,
for their general balance arising out of the deficiency on
the sale of the pork and shoulders, which right was denied
by Gregg & Hughes, and hence this litigation.
The question depended, of course, upon the fact, whether
the intervention of Gregg & Hughes had changed the relation of principal and factor, which bad previously existed
between McCabe & Co. and Drakely & Fenton, and separated
the consignment of hams from the preceding consignments.
This, of course, was a question depending on the terms on
which the hams had been received.
The evidence, on this point, consisted of a long correspondence, and of some oral testimony. The transactions
originated with a letter from McCabe & Co. to the Baltimore
house, as follows:
CHICAGO, January 6th, 1865.
MESSRS. DRAKELY & FENTON, BALTIMORE.

DEAR SIRS: I have about one thousand tierces of pickled hams,
and five hundred tierces of pickled shoulders, with some mess,
prime mess, and extra prime, which I would like to send to you,
provided you think you could sell for good prices. Please let me
know what you could get for the above, to arrive, and what
amount you would allow me to draw on the shipment.
Yours, truly,
R. MCCABE & Co.

The property here referred to, pork, shoulders, and hams,

Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

Statement of the case.

was, all of it, confessedly, at the date of the letter, the property of Gregg & Hughes, by virtue of the warehouse receipts
already mentioned. On the 10th January, Drakely & Fenton reply, as follows:
BALTIMORE,

MESSRS. I.

January 10th, 1865.

M COABE & CO., CHICAGO.

GENTLEMEN: Yours of 6th instant came to hand this morning. [Here prices are given.] We would be pleased to re.
ceive consignments from you, and would advance you as follows,
on sight drafts, accompanied with bills of lading; on pickled
hams, say $40 per tierce; do. shoulders, $30 per tierce; mess
pork, $30 per barrel; P. M. pork, $25 per barrel.
Very respectfully, yours,
DRAKELY & FENTON.

The present litigation had reference, mainly, to 983 of the
1000 tierces of hams, the first-mentioned article in both of
the foregoing letters.
Satisfied, apparently, with the terms of Drakely & Fenton,
McCabe & Co. write, as follows:
CnicAoo, January 13th, 1865.
MEssRs. DRAKELY & FENTON, BALTIMORE.
DEAR SIRS: Yours of 10th is before me; I will ship to you,
by the 16th, fifteen hundred barrels pork, and, probably, will
ship one thousand tierces of hams, and six hmdred tierces of
shoulders, next week. I will draw on the fifteen hundred barrels on the 16th, as directed by you, for about $42,000.
Truly yours,

R.M CCABE & Co.

On the 16th of January, McCabe & Co. forwarded the pork
described in letters of that date, of which the following is'
an extract:
"On the terms enumerated, I have drawn on yon to the order
of Gregg & Hughes for $41,000. I will ship to order about six
hundred tierces of shoulders, and, on Thursday, I will ship the
hams. I hope you will put the property in store, on arrival,
until I come on, which will be in February."

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

On the 17th January, McCabe & Co. write again to Drakely
& Fenton, informing them of a shipment of "six hundred
and three tierces of shoulders," and saying: "I will ship the
hams next week, if I can get cars."
The bill of lading for the nine hundred and eighty-three
tierces of hams is dated January 23d, 1865, which was Tuesday; but the hams appear to have been forwarded, in fact,
on Sunday; and on Monday, 22d, Gregg & Hughes telegraphed Drakely & Fenton, as follows:
CHIcAGO, January 22d, 1865.

Don't negotiate bill lading for nine hundred and eighty-three
tierces of hams, shipped yesterday by McCabe & Co., consigned
to you; hams belong to us. Particulars by mail. Answer.
GREGG & HUGHES.

This was the first intimation that Drakely & Fenton had,
of Gregg & Hughes's interest in the property mentioned in
the original letter of McCabe & Co. of January 6th, or any
part of it. The letter promised by the telegram, and of the
same date, followed in course. It was thus:
CHIcAo, January 22d, 1865.
MESSRS. DRAKELY & FENTON, BALTIMORE.

GENTLEMEN: We have been advancing large sums of money,
during the past winter, to R. McCabe & Co., of this city, to pack
pork with, and have been getting from them their warehouse
receipts, with policy of insurance, covering the same security.
We have been shipping the property to New York on B. I. in
our name, where it was held for our account. Some few days

ago, Col. McCabe, of the firm named, handed us a letter from your
house, authorizing them to makce sight drafts on you, on the basis of
certainfigures therein named, the drafts to be accompanied by B. L.
These shipments they made without our knowledge in their own

name, and gave us only a portion of the proceeds of the drafts made
on you, payable to our order, viz., one for $41,000, and another for
$18,000. To THIS WE DID NOT MAKE ANY SERIOUS OBJECTION, as
they had been cutting a few hogs with money obtained from another source, and we presumed they wanted to close that account.
There was still a considerable quantity of lard and hams remaining here, which we supposed was sufficient to secure us for our

:Dec. 1868.]

D)RAKELY V). GREGG.

247

Statement of the case.

advances here, in addition to what we had in New York. Subsequently, they shipped the lard to you, on their own account, for
which we got nothing yet. Col. McCabe, however, told us that
-we should have the benefit of anything that might be in your
bands, from the sale of the property shipped you on B. L. in the
name of McCabe & Co., the lard included, after your advances
and charges were paid. We were "satisfied with that arrangement,
and on Fridaylast proposed that we would ship to you, in a few days,
the hams that were still here, there being then about a thousand tierces
in which we were interested, and we would not draw anything upon
them until they were sold. Col. McCabe told us, at that time, he
would leave on Saturday morning for New York, and we were to
attend to the shipping of the hams ourseif. To our surprise, this
morning (Monday), we found that McCabe did not go to New'
York, as contemplated, but remained here and shipped the hams
himself to your house, on yesterday (Sunday), and this morning
left for your city himself. Now, the last move, to us, does not
look right, and we are not satisfied with it. We, consequently,
write to you all the facts in connection with our dealings with
McCabe & Co., and will deem it an especial favor, if you will hold
off making further advances to them, over and above the $41,000 and
$18,000 sight drafts drawn in ourfavor. The property shipped you
is virtually and legally ours, and we hold Mc Cabe's warehouse receipts
for it. If you will delay the payment of anything further to
McCabe & Co. until we can advise with them, and direct the
property to be placed with you for our account, we will feel very
grateful to you; and if they refuse to comply with our request"
we can then take steps to make them surrender the property or
reimburse us for our advances ...
We do not wish your interests in the matter to be impaired in the
least; we want you to sell all the property consigned to you; but we
do not want the proceeds paid over to MeCabe & Co., until we are
secured, nor do we want any sale for the future made, unless the sales
are placed to our credit. McCabe & Co. may have the very best
intentions in this matter, and we hope they have, but the course
pursued is not exactly as we would have done, and we think very
strange of McCabe & Co., for having moved property belonging to
us without our consent. We desire that they shall have the beneit of everything the pork, lard shoulders, and hams bring over the
Yours,
amount we have in them.
GREGG & HUGHES.

248

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

On the 31st of January, 1865, Gregg & Hughes write:
"We have in our former letter notified you that the property
consigned to you by R. McCabe & Co., of this city, belongs to us.
We again notify you that all the pork products shipped to you by
McCabe & Co., is ours, and you must not negotiate for advances
on the same with any other parties but us. We also notify you
not to divest yourselves of the control of' any of the property,
by assigning B. L., or in any other way, as you, we are legally
advised, are responsible to us. You will consequently please
confer with us in future, in regard to the disposal of said prop.You will distinctly understand, that if you dispose
erty.....
of, in any way, the property consigned to you by .R.XcCabe &
Co., without our consent, that we will hold you responsible for
the value of it."

Drakely & Fenton reply, February 3d, 1865, and say:
"We have decided to be governed by your instructions as to
retaining the control of the goods, or proceeds of them, and we
now assure you we have no wish to embarrass you, arid will do
all in our power to protect your interests."
On the 6th February, Gregg & Hughes wrote to Drakely
& Fenton, and after speaking of some lard, which McCabe &
Co. were to have let them have, but did not, say:
,In place of it he agreed that we should not only have the
proceeds of sale of the 983 tierces hams shipped to you, but also
all propertyof the brand of B. McCabe & Co., in your hand. . . We
claim the whole property-the hams, pork, and shoulders. Our receipts cover them."
On the 9th February, 1865, Drakely & Fenton, writing to
Gregg & Hughes, say:
"In naming figures we would advance to :McC. & Co., we
based our calculation on at least 300 lbs. tierces ham and shoulder (we have generally found 300 to 320 the net weight of Ohio
and Indiana tierces) MeG. & Co., we find so far as examined,
weigh 280 to 290. We name this now, as we shall, when you and
Mr. MeC. get the matter straightened so that we shall know in
whose name to keep our account, make a new estimate, based
on the actual weight of the hams and shoulders, and the depreciated
market for all the goods, so that if an advance is required on the

Dec. 1868.]

IDRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

249

Statement of the case.

hams, fix an amount low enough to give good margins on all the
shipments."

This letter refers to the letter of the 10th January, fixing
the rate of advances, shown by R. McCabe to Gregg &
Hughes.
The letter in reply is dated February 11th, and made no
comment on the subject of the passage last above quoted in
long primer.
The next letter is dated February 22d. This was also
silent upon that subject.

The next, dated February 27th, says:
"We hand you memorandum of property in your hands which our
order covers, subject to two drafts made by McCabe & Co. on you,
with transportationand other regularcharges,"

and they add their thanks "for the very liberal and just
course" pursued by Drakely & Fenton in the premises. In
this same they ask for an advance of $25,000, saying that it
was below that promised to McCabe.
The memorandum referred to in the letter as inclosed,
had a list of items of the property, and the hams were among
them.

Drakely & Fenton, on the 2d of March, acknowledging
the receipt of the last-quoted letter of the 27th February,
whose contents they say they have carefully noted, consented
to make a; further advance of $25,000, and subsequently did
actually advance $10,000.
In advancing that,-in a letter of the 6th of March, after
mentioning that they had received froA the smoke-house
some of "a few tierces each, of Messrs. R. McCabe & Co.'s
hams and shoulders," and that more than half came out
tainted-they say,
"Under these circumstances and looking solely to the goods as
security for advances, we cannot now make the advance we proposed to do in ours of the 2d. With the most liberal estimate
we can make, we have decided that $10,000 is as much as we can
add to previous advances."
In a letter of the 15th of March, acknowledging the re--

DRAKELY

?,.

GREGG.

L[Sul.

ct,

Statement of the case.

ceipt of the letter of the 8th, Gregg & Hughes, recognizing
apparently the reasons of Drakely & Fenton, confined themselves to saying:
"We regret that you could not consistently place more than
$10,000 for us in New York. . . . We hope you may find it convenient yet to place some more for us, which we will deem as
an especial favor."
On the 8th of March-apparently before Gregg & Hughes
had received Drakely & Fenton's letter of the 6th-the former
write:
" We herein inclose to you Col. McCabe's order on you for
the pork products." "In regard to the sales of the stuff, we
will place the matter entirely in your own hands, to use your
judgment and discretion as to the best time to sell."
The order inclosed in the letter was as follows:
CHICAGO,

February 25th, 1869.

MESSRS. DRAKELY & FENTON, BALTIMORE.
GENTLEMEN: You will please place the proceeds of all the
pork products consigned to you by us to the credit of Messrs.
Gregg & Hughes, of Chicago, Illinois, and oblige
Yours, &e.,
R.

MCCABE & CO.

Accepted, March 20th, 1865.
In the already mentioned letter of the 15th March, Gregg
& Hughes say:
"In regard to holding on to the property for any great length
of time, we can only say that it is not our desire to do so if we
can avoid it without sacrificing it." "We certainly do not wish
to hold the hams and shoulders until warm weather, and hope
you will be able to sell them before that time. If anything is
to be held, let it be the pork."
On the 20th March, Drakely & Fenton write:
"As the market is now we cannot estimate the entire shipments
of lcCabe & Co. to a figure any greater than we now have in
them; and had the business been consummated, as we originally
hoped, we should no doubt ere this have been compelled to ask
for a margin."

Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY V. GREGG,

Statement of the case.

On the 29th March, acknowledging the receipt of it, Gregg
& Hughes speak of an improvement in the market, and say:
"While we are exceedingly anxious to have the property in
your bands disposed of, as we could use the money invested to
a good advantage, we would not urge the sale of it hastily, if
the prospect of a further advance is any way flattering."
Again, on the 25th April, they write:
"We hope that you will soon be able.to dispose of some of the
hams and shoulders at good prices, and the pork also; we think,
however, it would be better to bold the pork longer than the
other stuff. Please give us your views on that point. Our New
York balances will require us to place some funds there very
soon, and as we have calculated on the consignments to you to help
us through, we beg leave to ask you whether with the present
prospects, you could not within a few days place $5000 with
Hennings, Flint & Pearce, and accept our 30 and 60 day bills on
you for $10,000 more, favor of Messrs. David Dowse & Co., being
a total of $15,000. If you can favor us in this way it will enable
us to hold some property that may be greatly to our advantage
to not have disposed of at present."
On the 8th April, Drakely & Fenton write to Gregg- &
Hughes:
"Making the best estimate we can, the advances already made
are larger than we would make now on a duplicate shipment."
In reply to this letter, Gregg & Hughes write, April 14th :
"We regret that you felt constrained to advance no more than
the $10,000 you sent to New York on our 983 hams-the advince
you made on the pork and shoulders was more liberal."
On the 22d April, Gregg & Hughes write again:
"Please give us your views-generally concerning the condition
of the property you hold for us, and the price you can get, also
the prospect of selling at an early day."
On the 3d May, Gregg & Hughes write again:
"We would be glad of your views as to the net value of the
property you have for us, at present market rates. 'We, of
course, know you cannot tell exactly what it would sell for, but

DRAKELY v. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

we suppose you can form an opinion somewhere near its value.
We would be pleased to have you furnish us with your account
sales of each lot sold, and your account current when all is closed
out. We can then keep the run of how the stuff is selling, and
might be governed somewhat in selling off rapidly or gradually."
To this letter Drakely & Fenton reply on the 8th May:
"We have made a rough estimate of your whole provision
business, based on present nominal prices, and the net balance
is about $10,000."
Now, as was asserted by Drakely & Fenton, and not until
now, as they asserted, began a change in the character of the
correspondence of Gregg & Hughes, which change, as they
assert further, led to the present litigation.
Gregg & Hughes, on the 12th May, write to Drakely &
Fenton thus:
"We hope you have been able to dispose of the greater portion, if not all, of our hams by this time, at good prices, as also
some of the other portions of McCabe & Co., the proceeds of which,
over and above your charges and advances on them, is to be
placed to our credit."
Here, it will be observed, "our hams" and "portions of
McCabe & Co.' are referred to as properties in the hands of
Drakely & Fenton, belonging to different parties.
In a letter of May 22d, " our hams" are again spoken of,
and Drakely & Fenton are told:
"You will please keep the ham account separate. . . . The
ham account sales, you understand, will be made direct to us ...
The pork and shoulders will be made out to McCabe & Co.
fbr our use; we do not want to get the property confused by
running it all together. The hams are exclusively ours, and the
other stuff, we are to have the benefit of what may be in your
hands when sold, after deducting your advances and charges on
the same."
A letter of Gregg & Hughes of May 31st, speaks of "our
hams and McCabe & Co.'s stuff"
Drakely & Fenton, however, did not recognize the distinc-

:Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

Statement of the case.

tion taken by Gregg & Hughes, and say, in a letter of June
5th:
" We do not propose to change the aspect of our relations to
you as assignees of McCabe & Co., to receive from us whatever
balance may be due them when their consignment of hams,
shoulders, and pork, shall have been closed."
On the 27th June, Gregg & Hughes use the term " our
hams" twice; and in a letter of the 8th July, Drakely &
Fenton inform Gregg & Hughes that they have been "pushing off the McCabe hams as rapidly as possible." Again,
on the 15th July, Gregg & Hughes speak of "our hams;"
again, on the 20tb; again, on the 29th.
The correspondence closes with a letter from Gregg &
Hughes of September 16th, 1865, in which they present their
view of the case thus:
"You say that you cannot recognize any distinction in the
ownership of the hams, shoulders, and pork, that you received
from McCabe & Co. and ourselves, and are not willing to make
any further advances on them, until all is disposed of. Now,
gentlemen, this- is rather a singular view you take of the matter, and a nqvel construction you place oh our account; you
certainly were aware, from the beginning, that the 983 tierces
of hams belonged exclusively to us, and you also know, that
we were to have the benefit of the excess over nd above your
advances of the sales of the provisions shipped you direct by
M C. & Co. They drew on bills of lading as per your proposal in your letter to them, dated January 10th, 1865; the
hams, they had no right to value against, and did not do so,
which you are well aware of; we were the exclusive owners
of the hams, and did not draw against them ourselves, which
you are also aware of; we had you remit some money for our
account to N. Y., which we expect to have charged up to our
ham account, and the balance subject to our draft. Now this is
.a plain statement of the case, and we hope that we may nott
have occasion to discuss the subject any further. You dishonored our draft, after holding out the idea that you would
place the amount it was for to our New York correspondents.
And now we feel as though we want our own account closed,'
and will hope to get your report of the sales of the pork and

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

shoulders at an early day, so that we may get some benefit
from that."
The parties haviug now arrived at an issue between themselves, Gregg & Hughes brought this suit against Drakely &
Fenton, to recover the proceeds of the hams discharged of
the ffctors' liens, for advances to McCabe & Co.
Mr. Hughes, of the firm of Gregg & Hughes, was examined on the trial, and stated that there was no agreement
by them, that the hanis should be subject to the drafts of
McCabe & Co. ; and being asked to look at the letter of the
27th of January, and to explain the circumstances attending
the writing of it, said, that the firm did not consider itself
as " writing with legal precision, but to mercantile correspondeuts, whose good faith, it was supposed, would be above
taking advantage of a loose phrase, the meaning of which
they perfectly understood."
There was some other oral
testimony.
The evidence being closed, the defendant's counsel asked
the court to give these instructions, to wit:
" If the jury shall believe, from the whole of the evidence in
the cause, that the plaintiffs were the owners of the property described in the memorandum attached to the letter of the 27th
January, 1865, and that the same was referred to in the order,
in evidence, of the 25th February, 1865, and although they may
have been ignorant, at the time of each consignment of the several portions of said property, of the fact, that it was being made
to the defendants, yet, if the jury ,hall believe that the plaintiffs
subsequently recognized and acquiesced in such consignment,
and received advances thereon, as well the hams as pork and
shoulders, and assumed and exercised the control of owners of
all the said property, without discrimination, then there is evidence, from which the jury may infbr that the relation of principal and factor was established with regard to the whole of the
lcorsignment, offered in evidence, pork, shoulders, and hams, in
which event, the defendants would be authorized to retain from
the net proceeds of the consignments, the amount of their advances, with interest, and the verdict must be for such sum only
as reinains, after deducting said advances from the net proceeds
aforesaid."

" Dec. 1868.]

DRAIKELY

v).

GREGG.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

But the court did not give such instructions, either in the
form asked, or in substance otherwise; but taking the view,
that admitting the construction put by the defendants on the
letter of the 27th February, 1865 (in the memorandum appended tovhich the hams were included), there was no
consideration for the responsibility insisted on, put the case
to thejury on the single issue of legal title in Gregg &Hughes,
and notice of it to Drakely & Fenton.
Verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiffs,
Gregg & Hughes, the other side, brought the case here on
error; the ground of exception being, that the court below
erred in submitting the case to the jury, upon the sinple
questions of legal title to the hams in the defendants in
error, and notice of that title given to the plaintiffs in error;
that, on the contrary, the court should either have itself construed the agreement between the parties, as appearing in
the documentary evidence, or more properly under the circumstances of this case, have submitted to the jury, as the
appropriate tribunal, to find, from the evidence, what was
the true agreement between the parties.
.Messrs. Latrobe and Steele, for the plaintiff in. error:
The letter of January 22d is the statement by Gregg &
Hughes, of "all the facts." It admits, that they held warehouse receipts for all the property that had been consigned
to Drakely & Fenton; that their title to the hams was no
better than their title to the pork and shoulders, but was the
same; that they saw the letter by which Drakely & Fenton
agreed to make advances; that the advances on the first
consignments made, to use their own language, "on the
basis of certain figures named" in Drakely & Fenton's letter
of the 10th of January, were in drafts to their own order,
a part of the proceeds of which they gave to McCabe & Co.,
to enable them to close an account with other parties.
It admits, moreover, that, although the first consignment
of the property of Gregg & Hughes, was made without authority by McCabe & Co., yet that they made "no serious
objections to it;" in other words they ratified it, and received

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the proceeds of it, availing themselves of the act of McCabe
& Co. as their agents in the premises; that (with a knowledge
of the letter of Drakely & Fenton, of January 10th, 1865),
they proposed to send to them, the same consignees that
McCabe & Co. had employed, the property, which, but fbr
the negotiation opened by McCabe & Co.'s letters of January 6th, and which alone introduced Drakely & Fenton into
the transaction, would have been sent to New York.
In this letter, Gregg & Hughes propose, in fitct, to place
themselves in the shoes of McCabe & Co., as regards the
property consigned by theni to Drakely & Fenton, pork,
shoulders, and hams; and although they say, they had not
proposed to draw, had they themselves made the shipment
of the hams, until they were sold, yet, they did obtain advances on them, as has been seen already, from the correspondence, making a reference, at the time, to the letter of
Drakely & Fenton of the 10th of January, which was "the
basis" of the transaction.
They claim also in this letter, the proceeds, not of the hams
only, but of all the pork products consigned by McCabe &
Co. to Drakely & Fenton.
The same letter admits that it was McCabe's conduct, in
forwarding the hams, that created distrust, and produced
their telegram and letter of January 22d.
Paraphrased, the letter is as follows: "McCabe & Co. sent
you our property without our knowledge; when they informed us of the fact, showed us your letter, and drew drafts
for the advance you had agreed to make, payable to our
order, we made no objection; and proposed ourselves to send
you the balance of the property which they had promised.
Finding, however, that they had themselves forwarded it, we
distrust them, and while we sanction and adopt the selection
of your firm as the consignees of all the property, we give you
notice of our title to all the property and request you to hold
off making further advances to McCabe & Co.
These admissions prove the transaction to have been one,
where the owners of property, after permitting an agent to
establish in his own name relations with a third party, or,

:Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY

V.

GREGG.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

which is the same thing, not objecting to those relations.
when he learns they have been established, but availing himself of theni, becomes dissatisfied, discloses his ownership,
and takes upon himself the further conduct of the business.
In other words, the case is one in which the principal, intervening in a transaction between his agent and a factor, has
recognized their relations and proceeded to carry them out.
That in such a case, the factor would have a lieu for his
general balance is so clear, that the point need not be discussed.
The main question, then, is one of fact. Did Gregg &
Hughes recognize the relation of principal and factor, established between McCabe & Co. and Drakely & Fenton by
the correspondence and acts of the parties respectively, and
assume the obligations thereby created in regard to all the
property, pork, shoulders, and haius, consigned by the former
to the latter?
McCabe & Co.'s letter of the 6th January, proposed to forward pork, shoulders, and hams, mentioning the quantities, and
inquiring about advances. Drakely & Fenton's letter of
10th January, states what advances will be made. McCabe
& Co., January 18th, 1865, advise that shipments will be
made accordingly, on the 16th, of the pork; and that the
hams and shoulders will go forward the next week. The
pork and shoulders go forward accordingly, and drafts
amounting to $59,000 are paid. The hams are forwarded
also, as promised, by the same parties, on the 21st January,
with a bill of lading dated the 23d.
Gregg & Hughes intervene on the 22d. Had they not
intervened, there would have been no question as to the right
of Drakely & Fenton to a lien for their general balance.
Their letter of 22d January is a portion of the evidence relied on, to show that this intervention was but the substitution of a principal in place of an agent in dealings with a
factor. Was there a reason for such a substitution? Touching all the property, pork, shoulders, and hams, McCabe &
Co. were but agents dealing with the property of their
principal, whose absolute title was the warehouse receipts.
VOL. VIII.

17

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the phintiff in error.

The conduct of the agents exciting distrust, there was a
reason why the principal should substitute himself in their
place.
From the use of the words all of the properly, in the letter
of 22d January, it would be fair to argue that not only
the hams, the consignment of which was the occasion of
that letter, but the pork and shoulders were meant. The
next sentence, however, removes all doubt on this score.
"We desire that they shall have the benefit of everything,
the pork, lard, shoulders, and hams, bring over the amount we
have on them." Here then was a setting up of ownership
of all the property, assuming the control of all of it.
The subsequent correspondence corroborates this view,
and shows that Gregg & Iughes stepped into the place of
R. McCabe & Co., in all respects as regards all the property.
Indeed, it is difficult to see how Gregg & Hughes could
make their determination to deal with all the pork products
consigned to Drakely & Fenton by McCabe & Co., as their
own particular property, plainer than they have done by their
letter of 31st January, 1865. Then comes the letter of
Drakely & Fenton to Gregg & Hughes, of February 3d, 1865,
in which they recognize the claim of the latter to deal with
the property as their own, attorning to them, as it were.
On the 6th February, Gregg & Hughes wrote to Drakely
& Fenton: " We claim the whole of the property-the hams,
pork, and shoulders-our receipts cover them." The extracts
given in the statement of the case (supra, p. 244 to p. 252)
show that Gregg & Hughes at this time made no distinction
between the hairs, and the pork, and shoulders; but set up
the right to deal with all alike.
But the correspondence does not leave.us merely to infer,
from the ownership alone, that the hams were responsible
for the advances made or fbr the general balance, when the
final account sales of the whole was rendered.
The letter of February 9th, 1865, not only speaks of the
hams and shoulders as in the same category, but refers to
the letter of the 10th January, fixing the rate of advances,
shown by R. McCabe to Gregg & Hughes, and it distinctly

Dec.1868.]

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

informs Gregg & Hughes that a new rate must bd adopted.
In other words, the advances originally proposed, owing to
the fall of prices, had turned out to be greater than should
have been allowed; so that in determining now what was to
be advanced hereafter, good margins on all the shipments
were to be provided.
Now was the time for Gregg & Hughes to have made their
present point, and to have said: "We cannot let the hams go
in with the pork and shoulders, so as to give you a margin on
all the shipments, for that would give you a lien for your general balance. This will never do. The hams were a separate
transaction, and must be kept apart from the pork and
shoulders. Deal with McCabe & Co. for the latter; but the
hams are an especial consignment, to be accounted for by
itself."
The letter in reply is dated February 11th, and makes no
comment in this connection.
The next letter is dated February 22d-this too issilent
upon the subject.
The next, dated February 27th, instead of remonstrating
against Drakely & Fenton's views in regard to the liability
of all the property, pork, shoulders, and hams, for the advances already made, expressly confirms it. They say:
" We hand you memorandum of properly in your hands which
our order covers, subject to two drafts made by .Me Cabe . Co. on
you with transportationand other regularcharges."
On the memorandum inclosed the hams are put.
How, in the face of this letter, it can be contended, that
the hams were not liable for the two drafts, along with all
the other property consigned, is difficult to see.
The reason for the change in position, shown by Gregg
& Hughes's correspondence after May 8th, is evident. The
letter of Drakely & Fenton of that date, reporting the net
of all the consignments as not exceeding $10,000, when the
net value of the hams alone was so much greater, on which
but $10,000 had been advanced, showed the importance of
separating the hams from the pork and shoulders, so that
The shortcoming of the latter might not become a claim on

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the proceeds of the former. There would be reason for this
change if in truth any distinction could be drawn between
"our hams," and the "portions of McCabe & Co.," by which
is meant the pork and shoulders. But there was no such difference. The origin of the title to all these pork products;
the actual ownership, as proved by the warehouse receipts;
the equitable ownership as security for advances-all were
the same. They were consigned by the same party to the
same consignee, Drakely & Fenton. The order of February
25th, directing the proceeds of all the pork products consigned, to be placed to the credit of Gregg & Hughes, made
no distinction between "our hams, and other portions of
McCabe & Co." The previous and subsequent correspondence up to the 12th May made no such distinction.
The distinction is not borne out by the fact, and cannot
therefore be regarded as having any existence whatever.
Regarding then, Gregg & Hughes as the owners, by the
same title, of the pork, shoulders, and hams, we find them,
after the pork and shoulders had been consigned without
their consent, making no serious objection and receiving the
proceeds of the advances; we find them also, after the consignment of the hams without their knowledge, insisting that
the whole of the property was "virtually and legally" theirs,
and taking from the consignors an order on Drakely & Fenton for the proceeds of all the pork products consigned; we
find them declaring, in so many words, that the property
which the order covered, including the hams now in dispute,
was subject to the consignors' two drafts, the transportation
and other regular charges, the liability now denied; we find
them throughout controlling the disposition and management of all the property, and making no objections, when
Drakely & Fenton referred to the whole as a security for the
advances, leaving them to suppose, if they had ever doubted
on the subject, that this was a thing of course; we find them,
in a word, acting in the premises as though the relation of
factor and principal as to all the consignments, had been established between the plaintiffs in error and themselves, until
the fall in prices and the indifferent condition of much of

Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY v. GREGG.
Argument for the defendant in error.

the property made it probable that the pork and shoulders
would not cover the advances.
Surely upon this case there was evidence, if not proving,
at least tending to prove our defence, that after the hams
were received by Drakely & Fenton, Gregg & Hughes, with
entire knowledge of the agreement between McCabe & Co.,
and Drakely & Fenton, and its partial performance, ratified
and adopted it.
If the evidence but tended to prove this case, the court
below erred.
As respects the oral testimony of Hughes, it may be said
so far as a want of legal precision is suggested in the letter
of the 27th February, that it is the legal precision used which
frees the case from all doubt. Nothing can well be imagined
clearer with regard to what the drafts covered than the expression of that letter.
Messrs. S. T. Wallis and J. 1. Thomas, contra:
The hams being confessedly the property of Gregg &
Hughes, could not cease to be theirs, or become subject to a
lien in favor of any one else, except by some contract of
their own, founded upon a legally adequate consideration,
of which there is no pretence.
McCabe had entered into no obligation to ship the hams to
cover possible deficiencies which might arise from advances
made on the other meats. The advance on each was specific,
the bill of lading always accompanying the draft to show
on what it was drawn. Even as against him, Drakely &
Fenton had no claim on the hams till in their possession,
and he might have diverted the consignment after it was
made. If, however, the arrangement between him and these
last had been different, Gregg & Hughes only acquiesced in
the shipment of the other meats and the imposition of a lien
thereupon by him. They reserved their property in the
hams, and right to ship them in their own names, and so
notified to Drakely & Fenton.
If McCabe had been under an obligation to ship the hams,
and Gregg & Hughes had been bound by it, they would

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the defendant in error.

have been entitled to the corresponding benefits of the contract-to the advance of $40 per tierce on the 983 tierces,
to $39,323, which is more 'than the amount they now claim
out of them. If they had meant to subordinate their rights
to that agreement, they could have got from him drafts to
that amount, which the appellants would have been bound
to accept. But they never asked for more than $25,000, and
the appellants refused to advance even that.
Gregg & Hughes claimed the hams as their own, claimed
none of the benefits, admitted none of the liabilities arising
from the contract between McCabe and the other side, except as to the shipment of the pork and shoulders, and the
lien imposed on them. They waived no title to the hams,
but reserved the right to deal with them as their own property.
Their receiving a portion of the proceeds of the drafts
drawn on the pork and shoulders, did not affect their right
to the hams. It was received, under an agreement with
McCabe, that the hams were to continue their own,be shipped
by them in their own names, on their own account, and they
so wrote to Drakely & Fenton, before the hams went into
their possession.
The taking by Gregg & Hughes of the order for the proceeds of pork and shoulders, and the assignment of the bill
of lading for the hams, did not impair the right they already
had to the hams. They do not claim title under those
papers.
The expression used in the letter of the 27th of February,
cannot have the effect of subjecting the hams to a lien, or
rendering the proceeds of them liable to a deduction for the
drafts which had been drawn on the pork and shoulders, in
view of all the facts. Even if Gregg & Hughes had meant,
and had expressly promised to pay these drafts themselves,
or make their hams liable for them, such a promise would
have been void for want of consideration. The other side,
as acceptors, were bound to pay them to us, and we, if compelled, as indorsers, to pay them to any one else, might have
recovered them from the former. It was a debt due by Mc

Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Cabe to Drakely & Fenton, for which our clients were in no
way liable, and a promise by them to pay it, or make their
property responsible for it, was a promise to answer for the
default of another, nudumpactum, and void, under the Statut6
of Frauds.* Admissions are useful to determine doubtful
questions, not to take away or qualify clear rights. They
must be deliberatd, "not fished out of loose expressions in
mercantile correspondence."t
Gregg & Hughes might have replevied the hams from the
railroad company, before they reached Drakely & Fenton,
or from these* afterwards, on tendering the freight and
charges on them specifically. The amount which Drakely &
Fenton would have been compelled to tender before replevying them, is still the test as to the character and amount of
liability to which they were then subject.
If the hams had never been shipped, the loss arising fromi
deficiency of the other meats, to cover advances made on
them, would have fallen on the other side, not on us. Nothing in the case justifies the transfer of the loss to us. The
other side, having exhausted their security, seek now to exhaust that of our clients, who are creditors of McCabe, and
losers by him to a much larger amount than they.
Although factors have a lien upon goods actually in their
hands, or the proceeds of them for a general balance, it is.
onJy for a balance due by the principal, against whom it is
sought to be asserted.
All the facts assumed in the court's instructions were
admitted, and the court, construing the letters between tho
parties, according to their proper and legal effect and force;
was right, in substantially saying to the jury, that they contained no sufficient agreement, whereby the appellants had
acquired the right to charge the property of the appellees for
advances made on other property, to McCabe, and not to the
appellees.
* Gist v. Cockey, 7 Harris & Johnson, 140; Robinson v. Marshall, 11
Maryland, 253,4; Nortbern Central R. R. Co. v. Prentiss, Ib. 123, 27'; Sumwalt v. Rlidgely, 20 Id. 107.
f Cumberland Coal & Iron Co. v. Sherman, 20 lb. 149.

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

The appellant's prayers were properly rejected, because
they all fell short of the law of the case. They assumed, that
if the jury could establish the relation of principal and factor,
between the appellants and appellees, as to all the consignments, a lien upon all would follow as matter of law and
matter of course, without reference to the circumstances
under which that relation was created, or the intention of the
parties who entered into it. This theory and assumption
are untenable.
The lien of factors for a general balance is an implication
of law, and, therefore, never arises where tlfere is a special
arrangement, or the circumstances rebut such implication.
Special circumstances indeed always control it.*
The doctrine of lien applies only where the deposit of the
goods is in the nature of a pledge, and does not apply where
it is made for a special purpose.t
Nqor does any lien arise for antecedent debts of the principal, by reason of the subsequent creation of the relation of
principal and factor.1
The property on which the lien is sought to be fixed must
not only belong to the party from whom the debt is due to
the factor, but it must come to his hands as the agent of that
party.ยง
And where the factor is not acting in the capacity of general factor, but only in regard to a special consignment or
adventure, he has no lien for a general balance.Ii
These well-r~cognized principles are conclusive, d fortiori,
where the effort is, as here, to establish a lien against one
principal, for advances made to another, by a sort of process
analogous to merger at common law.
.Reply.-The argument of the other side-and such was
* In

re Leith, 1 Privy Council Appeals, 305; Young v. Bank of Bengal,

38 E. C. L. R. 633, 4 (1 Deacon, 622); Neponset Bank v. Leland, 5 Metcalf,
262; Randel v. Brown, 2 Howard. 425.
f Walker v. Birch, 6 Term, 262, 3.

: Houghton v. Matthews, 3 Bosanquet & Puller, 488, 9.
Bruce v. Wait, 3 Meeson & Welsby, 15.

IDe Wolf v. Iowland, 2 Paine, 364, 5.

Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY V. GREGG.

265

Reply.

the view taken in the court below, is, that admitting the construction put by us on the letter of the 27th, there was no
consideration for the responsibility insisted on.
Now there are two answers to this.
Looking at the letter of the 27th February, and seeing
that, in terms, the hams were made responsible, along with
the pork.and shoulders, for the $59,000 already advancedDrakely & Fenton, on the 2d March, acknowledging the
receipt of the letter of the 27th February, whose contents
they say they have carefully noted, consent to make a further
advance, and subsequently do actually advance the farther
sum of $10,000. This is a sufficient consideration.
But there is a second answer.
The letter of the 27th February is not a single fact in the
case, containing a promise, so to speak, for which there was
no consideration, but one of a series of facts, going to show
that Gregg & Hughes recognized the acts of McCabe & Co.
up to that time, and assumed and continued all the obligations of their relations to Drakely & Fenton. Some of these
facts are to be found in the admissions of the letter of the
20th January, others in subsequent letters, already commented on; and the letter of the 27th February is but a
recognition of a state of things, not created by it, but existing
previously, the proof of which it facilitates, and that is all.
It is an admission of a fact that was susceptible of proof,
less absolute, perhaps, but sufficient for all that, without it.
References to ,the letters of Gregg & Hughes'of March 8th,
15th; to Drakely & Fenton's letter of March 20th; and again
to Gregg & Hughes's letter of April 25th, corroborate the
views taken by us of their relations to all their property in
question.
Recollecting thatbut $10,000 had been advanced on the
hams, which, under unfavorable circumstance , produced
$37,694.76, it is impossible to read this last letter and believe that, when it was written, Gregg & Hughes believed
that the hams were a separate transaction, or that they were
not liable for the general balance on final account, embracing all the consignments. The whole tone of the letter cor-

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of tho court.

roborates the view taken by us in the relations between them
and the other side touching all the consignments.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The correctness of the charge of the court to the jury, and
the refusal of the court to charge as requested, present the
only questions in this case which we are required to consider.
The plaintiffs in error, who were the defendants below,
insist that they are injured by the action of the court in not
allowing their defence to go to the jury. Their position is,
that the evidence in the case proved their defence, or, at
least, tended to prove it; and if it did, it was the province
of the jury, and not of the court, to say what effect should
be given to it.
It is not denied, that in the dealings between McCabe &
Co. and Drakely & Fenton, there existed the relation of
principal and factor, and that if Gregg & Hughes had not
intervened, Drakely & Fenton would have had a lien on the
surplus, after all the consignments were closed up, for their
general balance. The question then arises, whether this relation was changed by the intervention of Gregg & Hughes?
The defendants in error contend that it was, so far as the
shipment of hams was concerned, because they were received as the property of Gregg & Hughes, after notice that
it was their property; on the contrary, the plaintiffs in error
insist that the relation of principal and factor was unchanged
as to all the shipments, for the reason that Gregg & Hughes,
after the receipt of the hams by Drakely & Fenton, put
themselves in the place of McCabe & Co. in regard to the
whole transaction, adopted what had been done in reference
to each shipment, and claimed to be the owners of all the
property, and did direct and control the disposition of it.
The case was tried substantially on this issue.
There is no dispute that the warehouse receipts gave to
Gregg & Hughes the legal title to all the property described
in them; and if so, it necessarily follows that McCabe & Co.
could not lawfully contract with Drakely & Fenton to receive

:Dec. 1868.]

DRAKELY

v.

G- REGG.

Opinion of the court.

and sell this property without the consent of Gregg &
Hughes. There is no doubt if this c6nsent had been obtained in advance of the making of the contract, that Gregg
& Hughes would have been bound by it, and could not free
themselves from any of the obligations which rested on
McCabe & Co. to discharge.
But as this consent was not obtained before the movement
of the property commenced, the important inquiry is, whether
the consignment.of hams is separable from the preceding
consignments, and whether the loss on the pork and shoulders must be borne by Drakely & Fenton, or by Gregg &
Hughes. This must depend on the terms on which the hams.
were received, and-these terms need not be embodied in the
form of a written agreement, but can be gathered from the
correspondence and conduct of the parties. If'the case stood
alone, on the naked fact that notice of title was given while
the hams were in transitu, there would be no difficulty. But
it is claimed that Gregg & Hughes adopted McCabe & Co.'s
contract throughout; substituted themselves in their place
as to all the consignments-pork, shoulders, and hams-and
continued in their own name, the relation -of principal and
factor, before existing between McCabe & Co. and Drakely
& Fenton. If this were so, the case would be equally free
fiom difficulty; for, if Gregg & Hughes were not bound by
a contract which McCabe & Co. had entered into with
reference to their property, they could elect, after being informed of the nature of the contract, to reject it or adopt it,
If, with a full knowledge of the facts concerning it, they ratify
it, they thereby make themselves a party to it, as much so
as if the original agreement had been made with them. And
if they ratified it, no new or additional consideration was required to support the ratification, because in adopting the
contract, they accepted with it the original consideration on
which it was founded, as a sufficient consideration for their
adoption of it.
With this general statement of the principles of law applicable to the controversy, we are met with the inquiry,
whether there is any evidence in the case to support the

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

theory of the plaintiffs in error, that Gregg & Hughes intended to, and did, adopt the contract of McCabe & Co. with
them. It is not enough that Drakely & Fenton should have
so understood the agreement, but the proof must also show
that Gregg & Hughes had a similar understanding of it, and
manifested their intention to be bound by it.
The evidence in the case, to which no exception was
taken, consists of a voluminous commercial correspondence,
and some parol proof, explanatory of the conduct of the
parties. The correspondence covers many pages of the
record, and there is a marked difference in its tone and
bearing after it had progressed for several months. It would
be difficult to discuss the evidence in reference to the theory
advanced by the plaintiffs in error, without indicating, in a
greater or less degree, our views as to the effect that should
be given to it. If the case is to be tried again, it is not
proper to do this, for in that event it is the province of the
learned court and the jury to determine the effect of the
evidence.
The only question with which we have to deal at the
present time is, whether the evidence in this record tended to
prove the position assumed by the plaintiffs in error; for if
it did, the learned court should either have submitted the
evidence on this point to the consideration of the jury, or
if, in the opinion of the court, there were no material extraneous fhcts bearing on this question, and the contract relied
on must be determined by the commercial correspondence
alone, then to have interpreted this correspondence and informed the jury whether or not it proved the contract to be
of the character contended for by the plaintiffs in error.*
We have examined the record in this case carefully, and
are of the opinion that there was evidence at the trial which
tended to prove that, after the hams were received by
Drakely & Fenton, Gregg & Hughes, with full knowledge
of the agreement between McCabe & Co. and Drakely &
Fenton, and its partial performance, ratified and adopted it.
* Turner v. Yates, 16 Howard, 23

Dec. 1868.]

GIBBONS V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

Whether the evidence actually proves this ratification and
adoption, we express no opinion. It is enough, as we have
seen, for the purposes of this writ of error, that it tended to
prove it.
As the learned court below submitted the case to the jury,
on the single issue of legal title to the hams in Gregg &
Hughes, and notice of that title to Drakely & Fenton, it
follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be
reversed, and a
VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

GIBBONS

). UNITED STATES.

1. In the Court of Claims the government is liable for refusing to receive
and pay for what it has agreed to purchase.
2. When an individual who has been absolved from such a contract, by the
refusal of the proper officer to receive the articles when tendered, afterwards consents to deliver them under a threat of the officer that he
will withhold money justly due to the plaintiff, Ife can only recover the
contract price, whatever may have been the current market value of"
the articles.
3. The government is not liable on an implied assumpsit, for the torts of its
officer committed while in its service, and apparently for its benefit.
4. To admit such liability, would involve the government in all its opera;
tions, in embarrassments, lossQs, and difficulties, subversive of the public
interest.
5. When the injury to individuals in such cases merits redress by the government, the remedy is with Congress. The statute does not confer jurisdiction on the Court of Claims.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The case as found by that court was thus:
Gibbons entered into a contract with the United States for
the delivery of two hundred thousand bushels of oats within
thirty days from the date of the contract.
He delivered a portion of the oats, and was ready and
offered to deliver the residue within the thirty days, but was
prevented by the officers of the United State's from so doing;
+hey would not receive it, because they had not convenient
storehouses for it.

