Dee 1868.]

THE Lucy.
Statement of the case.

THE Lucy.
1. An appeal which had been allowed from a District Court having Circuit
Court powers dismissed; it having been allowed just after an act had
passed, which created a Circuit Court for the same district, and which
repealed so much of any act as gave to the District Court Circuit Court
powers.
2. Appellate jurisdiction in the Federal courts depends on the Constitution
and the acts of Congress. When these do not confer it, courts of the
United States cannot exercise it by virtue of agreements of counsel or
otherwise.
8. The fact that no transcript of the record was filed at the next term to that
when a decree appealed from was made is, in general, fatal to the
appeal.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the District Court for
the Southern District of Florida, condemning the schooner
Lucy, the case being this:
An act of Congress of 1808* prescribes the circumstances
under which appeals are allowed from the District to the
Circuit Courts, and from these last to this court. This act
being in force and governing the appeals mentioned, an act
of February, 1847,t established the District Court for the
Southern District of Florida, with the jurisdiction and powers
of a District and Circuit Court of the United States; and
appeals were allowed from its decrees in the same manner,
and under the same regulations as appeals from a Circuit
Court.
On the 15th of July, 1862,t Congress passed an act establishing a Circuit Court for a circuit which included the
Southern District of Florida, and repealing the former act
conferring upon the District Court Circuit Court jurisdiction.
In this state of the law, on the 4th .of August, 1862, that
is to say, nineteen days after this last statute was enacted,
the District Court passed a decree condemning the sbhooner
Lucy, and on the 15th, allowed an appeal to this court.
The record was, in the October following, filed in the
*2 Star. at Large, 244.

f" 9 Id. 131.

$ 12 Id. 576.

THE: Lucy.

[Sup. Ct.

Arguments.

Circuit Court for the district "by reason of the act of Congress, approved July 15th, 1862, establishing a Circuit Court
in said district."
Afterward, to wit, May 1st, 1867, the cause was transferred
to the Supreme Court of the United States by consent of all
parties in interest, and the case so came up here from the
Circuit Court. The record was filed December 24th, 1867.
The Attorney- General and Mr. Ashton, special counsel of the
United States, citing The Alicia,* argued in support of the
motion to dismiss:
1. That the appeal allowed in August must have been so
granted in ignorance that the act establishing a District
Court with Circuit Court powers had been repealed in July;
that the transfer into the Circuit Court in the absence of
statutory authority, and the transfer by consent to this court
was a nullity.t
2. That independently of this, the cause must be dismissed
because the record was not filed before the end of the term
succeeding the allowance of the appeal, nor before the end
of the term succeeding the passage of the act of June 30th,
1864.1
Mr. -Durant,contra,distinguishing the case from The Alicia,
contended, that the act of filing the transcript of the record
in the Circuit Court of Florida was a mere error of the clerk,
which could prejudice no one, and gave that court no jurisdiction; that the agreement between the parties, that the
appeal taken and allowed in this case be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States, operated as a waiver of
the irregularity existing, in the fact that the appeal had not
been filed in the Supreme Court of the United States during
the December Term, 1862, and as a consent that it should
be filed at the next term after the agreement, which was
done; that an irregularity in the return of a writ of error
or appeal might be cured by consent, whether implied from
* 7 Wallace, 571.

t Washington County v. Durant, 7 Wallace, 694.
$ Edmonson v. Bloomshire, 7 Wallace, 306.

Dec. 1868.]

THE Lucy.
Opinion of the court.

appearance or otherwise shown,* and that good faith required
that the agreement made by the United States below should
be kept here, since no law forbade its observance in the
present instance.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
At the time when the District Court for the Southern District of Florida was established, the act of 1803t governed
appeals from the District to the Circuit Courts, and from the
Circuit Courts to this court. No appeal in admiralty could be
taken directly from the District Court to this court, except
when, as in the case of the Southern District of Florida, the
District Court exercised the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
as well as that of the District Court.
If this state of the law had undergone no change at the
date of the decree of condemnation in this case, the allowance of an appeal to this court would have been quite regular.
But the effect of the act of July, 1862,1 was to vest in the
Circuit Court for that circuit the whole appellate jurisdiction
exercised by other Circuit Courts in respect to decrees in
admiralty. It left the original jurisdiction in admiralty of
the District Court, untouched.
It was in virtue of this original jurisdiction that the District Court had cognizance of the case of the Lucy. The
appellate jurisdiction of the case was vested by the act in the
Circuit Court.
It follows that, when the decree was pronounced in August,
no appeal could be taken to this court, but only to the Circuit Court, and that the allowance of an appeal to this court
was a nullity.
This objection to the jurisdiction is decisive; but, if it were
otherwise, the fact that no transcript of the record was filed
at the next term, would be fatal to the appeal.ยง
No consent of counsel can give jurisdiction. Appellate
* Wood v. Lide, 4 Cranch, 180.

2 Stat. at Large, 244.
t 12 Id. 576.
Castro v. United States, 3 Wallace, 47; Insurance Company v. Mordecai, 21 Howard, 195.

MANDELBAUTN

V.

THE

PEOPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

jurisdiction depends on the Constitution and the acts of Congress. When .these do not confer it, courts of the United
States cannot exercise it.
We cannot take cognizance of a case not brought before
us in conformity with the law.
The case at bar, therefore, must be

MANDELBAUM

v. TuE

DISMISSED.

PEOPLE.

It is error, entitling the aggrieved party to a reversal, for a court, on motion
of a plaintiff, to strike out of an answer that which constitutes a good
defence, and on which the defendant may chiefly rely.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nevada.

The suit was brought by the Territory against Mandelbaum and Klauber, in a District Court, to recover from them
the amount of certain taxes, which the county assessor had
assessed upon property alleged to be theirs, to wit: upon
goods in a store in Carson City, of the assessed value of
$70,000; upon twenty tons of hay, at $800; upon goods in
store at Kinkead & Harrington's, at $6500; upon timber for
a barn, at $600; and upon one hundred tons of hay in Mr.
Ormsby's storehouse, at $4000, the property of the defendants-the whole amounting tQ $81,900. The different kinds
of tax, and the amount of the assessment were specified.
In an amended complaint, it-was declared that the tax was
assessed between the first Monday of August, 1862, and the
last Saturday in October of the same year; that the property
had not been assessed in the regular list of assessments; and
that it was entered in the tax list of the county under the
head of subsequent assessments.
The answer of the defendants set forth, that the property
described in the complaint was fraudulently and wrongfully
assessed, and was not subject to taxation for the year 1862,
because, as they say, the hay so described was a part of a
growing crop for the year, produced from their ranche in

