AVENDANO

V.

GAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

complainant could do anything subsequently to impair them.
The settlement of 1860 between those parties, and the judgment recovered upon the instrument then given, could have
no retroactive effect, so far as the rights of trustee and cestui
que trust were concerned.
The court below, we think, properly dismissed the bill,
and the decree is
AFFIRMED.

AVENDANO

v.

GAY.

1. A party in this court cannot allege as error in the court below, the admission of evidence offered by himself and objected to by the other side.
2. A statement of facts, made and filed by the judge several days after the
issue and service of the writ of error in the case, is a nullity. Generms
v. Bonnemer (7 Wallace, 564), affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Louisiana.
Avendano brought suit in the court below against Gay;
and, in the course of the trial, offered certain evidence, which
was objected to by the defendant, but which was admitted,
notwithstanding, by the court. The defendant excepted,
and a bill of exceptions was sealed. A verdict was given
against the plaintiffs, who brought the case here on error.
The writ of error was allowed on the 9th of July, 1867. The
citation was issued on the 10th, and served on the l1th. Oi
the 16th of July, a "statement of facts," by the judge who
heard the case, was filed, and the cause in this state was
here.
Mr. Durant,for the plaintiff in error, referring to the action
of the court below in admitting the evidence, contended,
that upon the case, as found by the court below, the judgment ought to be reversed.
Mr. Janin, contra, observing that the admission of the evidence was on the plaintiff's own offer, relied on Generes v.
Bpnnerner,* as disposing of the case; quoting the following
passage:
* 7 Wallace, 564.

Dec. 1869.]

THE :BALTIMORE.
Syllabus.

"To permit the judge to make a statement of facts, on which
the case shall be heard here, after the case is removed to this
court by the service of the writ of error, or even after it is
issued, would place the rights of parties, who have judgments of
record, entirely in the power of the judge, without hearing and
without remedy. The statement of facts, filed without consent
of the parties, must be treated as a nullity; and, as there is
nothing of which error of the court below can be predicated,
the judgment must be affirmed."
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to show error in the proceedings in the Circuit
Court, the counsel of the plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff
below, has referred to a bill of exceptions taken by the defendant to the ruling of the court admitting evidence, offered
by plaintiff against defendant's objection. If there was error
in the ruling, it was at plaintiff's request, and to the prejudice of defendant, and can form no ground of reversing the
judgment, which, notwithstanding this testimony, was for
the defendant.
Counsel also attempts to impugn the judgment, as not
being supported by the facts of the case, and relies on what
purports to be a statement of the facts found by the court.
But the statement is filed in the court several days after the
issue and service of the writ of error in this case, and is,
therefore, a nullity, as we decided in the case of Generes v.
Bonnemer.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE BALTIMORE.
1. Restittio in integrum is the leading maxim as to the measure of damages
in cases of libel in admiralty, for injury to vessels, for collision: in other
words, where repairs are practicable, the general rule is, that the damages shall be sufficient to restore the injured vessel to the condition in
which she was at the time the collision occurred. And this rule does
not allow deduction, as in insurance cases, for the new materials furnished in the place of the old.

L-ed 4R

