MOREY v.

LocKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

MOREY V. LOCKWOOD.
1. Where a limitation of a claim, as found in a patent, has been caused by
a mistake of the Commissioner of Patents in supposing that prior inventions would be covered, if the claim was made, as the applicant makes
it, more broad, and an inventor has thus been made to take a patent with
a claim narrower than his invention, it is the right, and, as it would
seem, the duty of the commissioner, upon beind satisfied of his mistake,
as to the nfature of the prior inventions, to grant a reissue with an
amended specification and a broader claim.
2. Where the amended specifications and broader claim secures the patentee
only the same invention that he had originally described and claimed,
the reissue is valid.
3. The syringe known as the Richardson syringe is an infringement of the
patent for a syringe, granted March 31st, 1857, to 0. & H. Davidson,
and reissued April 25th, 1865, with an amended specification.
4. The Davidsons were the original and first inventors of the syringe patented by the patent and reissue above referred to.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
Lockwood, assignee of the inventors, filed a bill in the
court just named to restrain Morey and others from infringing letters patent granted to Charles H. and Herman E.
Davidson, on the 31st of March, 1857, for a new and useful
improved syringe; and which were surrenderedand reissued on
the 25th day of April, 1865, with an amended specification. The
diagram below presents a sectional view of the instrument;
now commonly called
THE DAVIDSON SYRINGE.

The case was this:
Prior to the date, when, by the inventions of Goodyear,

Dec. 1868.]

MoREY v. LoCKwooD.
Statement of the case.

India-rubber had become so important an agent in surgical
operations, the only syringe in much use was the old metallic
syringe, with a plunger, sometimes known as the pump
syringe. The objections to the use of it, whether anal or
vaginal, were, amongst others, that it required to be worked,
if the party was at all feeble, by a second person, that it required the patient to be moved and placed in certain positions before it could be used, thus, sometimes, causing a
strain; that where the parts were delicate or diseased, it was
liable, even when thus used, by slipping or accidental motion,
to injure them; and finally, that unless the instrument was
large, when the inconvenience of it was proportionably increased, it required, in many cases, however used, to be removed, refilled, and replaced before a sufficient injection
could be obtained. With the discoveries in manufacturing
India-rubber, three improved forms of the instrument were
made.
1. The globe syringe, composed of a simple globe or bulb
of India-rubber with an inflexible pipe inserted in it. By
compressing the bulb, the air was expelled and a vacuum
caused. The pipe being then placed in any fluid, it flowed
by the weight of the external atmosphere into the globe,
from which, on the extremity of the pipe being inserted into
the part to which it was designed to convey it, the fluid passed
on compression of the globe by the hand. One objection,
among others, to this instrument was, that it had to be removed, refilled, and replaced, if the injection required was
large. The desideratum remained of a syringe which could
supply itself, and which, avoiding any strain upon the patient's body, would hold the enema steadily and close to it.
In this condition of the art, so far, apparently, as was
known to him, Herman E. Davidson, a physician, resident
in Gloucester, Massachusetts, had been attending, prior to
August, 1852, a patient, suffering from uterine cancer, and
who used a globe syringe, with a rubber bulb and a single
inflexible tube. Observing the inconvenience and discomfort to the patient of having to remove this instrument from
the body, from time to time, in order to refill the instrument

MOREY v.

LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

with the enema, Dr. Davidson suggested to a brother of his,
Charles H. Davidson, who was a machinist, the making of a
syringe which could supply itself with enema without being
so removed.
Thereupon, Charles Davidson devised and made a drawing
of a syringe, in which the elastic sac had but one opening,
the two flexible tubes being coupled to it at that point, the
enema entering the sac through one tube and being expelled
through the other; a "single-neck" syringe, and having a
"threeway connection." The bulb was more round than
oval-nearly spherical-being the shape of the bulb in the
syringe which the patient was then using. Dr. Davidson
suggested the use of the oval form of bulb, and also, as
a simpler and better mode of combining the parts, to have
the two flexible tubes enter the sac at opposite sides.
In the early part of January, 1853, the Davidsons filed a
caveat in the patent office, announcing that they had made
certain improvements in syringes, and that they were now
perfecting them prior to an application for a patent; their
petition, together with the accompanying description, being
dated on the 8th of January in that year. In that descrip- ,
tion, the petitioners state that their improvement consisted
in using a spheroidal, cylindrical, or globular elastic sac, or
bulb, to which were attached, and communicating with it,
flexible tubes or pipes; to the ends of which pipes were connected valve-boxes, with suitable valves therein, so that by
the alternate action of compression and expansion, the desirable quantity of injection might be administered without
removing the instrument to refill it.
When application was made by the attorney of the inventors to the Commissioner of Patents, with a claim for
the combination of an elastic sac, with flexible tubes, terminated with suitable valve cases and valves, the whole operating together in the manner and for the purpose set forth,
objection was made by the office, on tie ground that they
were anticipated by Messrs. Pearsall & Gilbert, who, according to an account published in the Franklin Journal, had
already improved syringes by making a rubber sac with two

Dec, 1868.]

MOREY v.

LOCKWOOD.

Statement of the case.

tubes coupled to it at one point. The diagram, which the
Franklin Journal presented, was thus:

n

And the commissioner refused to grant the patent, except
with a claim, thus-the clause in italics, "when the sac, tubes,
and valve-boxes are in, or nearly in, the axial line," being
particularly insisted on:
" What we claim as new, and desire to secure, &c., is the combination of the prolate spheroidal shaped elastic sac with flexible
tubes, terminating in valve-boxes, containing valves, arranged
fbr the purpose of eduction and ejection, when the sac tubes and
valve-boxes are in or nearly in the same axial line, the whole operating together substantially in the manner and for the purpose
set forth."
The specification in this form was supposed to have taken
the improvement out of the objection of the prior one by
Pearsall & Gilbert.
In May, 1856, the Davidsons acquiesced in the rejection,
and submitting an amended and restricted claim, the patent
was granted.
The original specification described the improvement, in
substance,
"To consist of an oval, or spheroidal elastic bulb, with flexible
tubes and metallic valve-boxes, containing valves arranged for
the purpose of eduction and ejection, ben the elastic tubes
and metallic valve-boxes were attached to such an elastic bulb in,
or nearly in, its greatest axial line. The bulb and flexible tubes
are composed of India-rubber, or of any suitable material of

MOREY v. LOCKWOOD.

[-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sufficient elasticity and flexibility, as is necessary, and required
by the patentee in the use or operation of the instrument."
The specimens exhibited were all made of India-rubber.
The mode of operation of the instrument was described
as follows:
" Immerse the end of the eduction pipe in the enema, compress
the bulb with the hand, which will expel the air from within,
then releasing the grasp, the bulb will recover its form by means
of its elasticity, and the partial vacuum will be filled with the
enema; then insert the injection pipe, and repeat the operation
of compressing the bulb until the required quantity of the enema
is administered."
Having described the invention, what the inventors claimed
as new, were the matters already mentioned as the ones
thought proper by the commissioner to be so claimed, to wit:
" The combination of the prolate spheroidal-shaped elastic sac,
-withflexible tubes, terminating in valve-boxes containing valves,
arranged for the purpose of eduction and ejection, when the sac,
tubes, and valve-boxes are in, or nearly in, the axial line, the
whole operating together, substantially in the manner and for
the purposes set forth."
Subsequently to this grant of this patent, it was discovered
by the patentees, or their assignee, and also by the commissioner himself, that the invention of Messrs. Pearsall & Gilbert furnished no legal objection to the claim of the Davidsons, as first presented to the office; for, although the prior
improvement had a rubber sac, the tubes were metal and inflexible. Accordingly, on a surrender by the assignee he was
allowed to amena the claim by restoring it to its original
form, and the office granted a reissue with the claim in that
form.

The amended specification was substantially the same as
the original, leaving out that part which described the bulb,
or sac, tubes, and valve-boxes, attached and so arranged as
to be "in, or nearly in, its greatest axial line." As respected
the claim, it was as follows:
"What is claimed as the invention of Charles H. and Herman

Dec. 1868.]

8MOREY V. LOCKWOOD.
Statement of the case.

E. Davidson, is a syringe, having an elastic bulb or chamber,
flexible tubes, and a suitable valvular arrangement, when organized, so as to operate substantially as described."
This claim, it will be observed, is the same with the one in
substance made by the Davidsons, and refused by the commissioner when the patent was applied for.
By the 13th section of the Patent Act of 1836 a surrender
and an amended specification may be made when the patent
issued is inoperative, or invalid, by reason of a defective or
insufficient description or specification; or, "if the error
has, or shall have arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake,
and without any fraudulent or deceptive intention."
The invention which the bill sought to enjoin was one
known as
THE R1ICHARDSON SYRINGE.

The instrument had the same parts and materials as the
one made by the Davidsons; but instead of arranging them
in an axial line, the bulb or sac was placed above the point
of delivery and discharge of the enema, extending its "single
neck" (which was of course hollow), so that the tubes might
connect with each side of it. The difference between it and
the instrument of the patentee was, that in the latter, in the
axial line, tubes connected with the ends of the bulb; in the
former they connected, not with the ends of the bulb but
with the sides of its hollow neck. The enema passed from
the eductinn pipe through the neck or throat into the bulb,

MOREY

V. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case

and was forced through the discharge pipe by the same
means as those used by the patentees.
The chief ground on which the defendants resisted the
invention were:
First. That the claim was broader than the invention.
Secondly. No infringement, want of originality, setting up
here as the same in principle certain other syringes confessedly of prior date, as:
1. TE

MAW SYRINGE.

This it was admitted was a large step from the globe
syringe towards that of Davidson. It was composed of an
India-rubber chamber, in form cylindrical, with metallic
rims or casings at the ends. From these casings there proceeded a metallic tube of about one-third the diameter of
the metallic casings, upon which tubes the inner end of
flexible pipes, for eduction and injection, were drawn. Appropriate valves were placed within these small metallic
tubes. The mode of using was meant to be the same as
in the Davidson syringe. But the difficulty was that the
metallic heads, which formed a material part of the inclosure, being rigid, counteracted, by their connection with
the elastic part of the chamber, the patient's effbrt to comipress it. Accordingly the patient, if a female, or otherwise
feeble, could not well compress it, and even when the party
using it was not feeble, the strength required to compress
the chamber was so considerable that no one cared to use it.
Practically it proved of no value. Very few were ever sold.
The Davidson syringe on the other hand came into nearly
universal use at once.
2.

THE TriiERS SYRINGE.

This was an instrument of French manufacture. It had
two flexible tubes, with suitable valves, but it did not have

Dec. 1868.]

MOnrEY V. LOCrWOOD.
Statement of the case.

an elastic bulb or chamber, in form at least, like that shown
in the patent. A diagram of it is below.

Air Chamber

Valve

P:
ealBase
Valve

1. It was not made of elastic material, but of a metal base
plate and a rubber hood set upon it; the rubber hood forming
one substantial part of the chamber to be collapsed, and the
metal base plate forming the other substantial part thereof.
2. The chamber was not expanded by the elasticity of the
material, but by mehns, wholly or partly, of a metal spring
placed within the chamber.
8. The necessary prolongation of the flow of the pressure,
after the collapsing of the chamber had ceased was accomplished, not by the reaction of the chamber alone, as in the
Davidson instrument, but by that and an air-chamber acting
in connection with it.
These Thiers syringes were imported to and sold in this
country in small numbers until about the time of the introduction of the Davidson syringes, and soon after that disappeared from the market.
In addition to these were numerous syringes, known as
the Galante, the Phelps, the Johnson, the Hernstein, the

MOREY V.

LocKwoOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

Leroy, the Feuchtwanger, and others, some of which had
had a certain sale and others none; all were displaced by
Davidson's. Much evidence was taken on the one part to
show their priority to that of Davidson, and on the other to
disprove it; but no priority was sufficiently shown.
The court below decreed an injunction, and from the decree this appeal came.
Messrs. H. F. -- ench and G. S. Boutwell, for the appellants:
The original patent was neither "inoperative nor invalid,"
nor was the specification "defective or insufficient." The
case, therefore, does not fall within the 13th section of the
act of 1836, and the reissue was, therefore, without authority
of law.*
The claim in the reissued patent is broader than the invention, and, consequently, is void. If the fair construction
of the reissue claim includes any syringe of which the
Davidsons were not the original and first inventors, then the
claim is broader than the invention, and so is void. Now,
a fair construction includes both the Maw and the Thiers
syringe; both of them old, known, and used. Can any other
construction be supported ? By striking out the words "or
chamber," and giving a very literal meaning to the word
"bulb," we may, indeed, make a distinction. We may say
the Maw syringe has everything else, but it has not a bulb.
Even this, however, cannot fhirly be said of the Thiers
syringe for it has an elastic bulb. But those words cannot
be stricken out. The surrender for reissue was for the very
purpose of inserting them. The original claim describes a
bulb in the words "prolate spheroidal-shaped elastic sac."
The word chamber was not there. It was not in the caveat,
and it was used in the reissued claim with a purpose.
It is, in no sense, a synonyme with bulb. Every bulb is a
chamber, but a chamber is not necessarily a bulb. Chamber
is the larger phrase, and may include bulb, but it certainly
includes cylinder as well. Any inclosed space is a chamber.
*

Burr v. DuTyee, 1 Wallace, 631; Case v. B-own, 2 Ib. 320.

Dec. 1868.]

MOREY v.

LocKwooD.

Argument for the appellee.

In the Davidson caveat, they describe their sac as spheroidal,
cflindrical,or globular. The Maw syringe has everything in
the Davidson syringe but the bulb. The Davidson syringe,
as described in the reissue, includes every element of the
Maw, including the chamber, which the Davidsons do not
now pretend to have invented.
The syringe made by the appellants is a combination of old
parts, substantially different 'from the Davidson syringe in
structure and effect.
1. Our bulb is not their bulb, but difterent in this, that
ours has but oup aperture, while theirs has two apertures.
2. The arrangement, or organization, differs in this, that
in ours, the fluid in the bulb is above the point of delivery,
and we have gravity to aid in expelling it, while in theirs,
one-half the fluid is below the centre of the bulb.
3. Ours has a three-way piece, not found in theirs, and
which cannot be used with theirs.
4. Ours is so constructed as to receive other pipes for
various purposes.
These differences constitute ours a different instrument,
different in its combination of parts, and different in its
mode of operation; more different from it than theirs was
from the Maw.*
The patent is wholly. void, as well for the invention claimed
in the original patent, as for the broader claim found in the
reissued patent, because syringes containing all that is
claimed as the invention of the Davidsons, were long before
their alleged invention, known and used in this country.
Xlessrs. B. B. Curtis and Causten Browne, contra.
1. The limitation of the claim, as found in the patent, in
the form in which it is issued, was caused from actual inadvertence and mistake of the Commissioner of Patents. The
Davidsons acquiesced from necessity in the commissioner's
decision; but the Patent Office had a right to admit and correct its own blunder, and to grant a reissue with the claim
as originally made.
SMcCormick

v. Talcott, 20 Howard, 405.

MOREY V. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

2. The terms bulb, or chamber, are used as synonymous
terms. Besides, the argument of the other side assumes
that the invention patented, embraces any and all elastic
chambers, by the intermittent compression and relaxation
of which the instrument is made to operate as an injection
syringe; whereas, it covers only instruments having substantially such an elastic chamber as is described.
The Richardson syringe is our syringe, under a less
useful form. It is, in fact, the form in which Dr. Davidson
first invented it, "three-way piece and all," a form abandoned
as less simple than the one where the pipes were in an axial
line. The gravity of an ounce or two of water is small; of
other things sometimes injected less. But, in our form, the
benefit of gravity can be obtained by turning the sac up
perpendicularly.
4. The Maw syringe had two flexible tubes with suitable
valves, and it had an elastic chamber, but it did not have an
elastic bulb, or chamber, substantially like that shown in the
patent. We need not examine particularly the construction
of the elastic chamber. Whether the difference was theoretically great or small, practically, it was a very important
one.
The same thing is true of the Thiers syringe, which has
marked differences in the construction of the elastic chamber,
particularly the metal spring to expand it, and which proved
of little practical use.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court:
Several objections are taken to this reissued patent;
among others, and which is the most material, that the claim
is broader than the invention.
The 13th section of the act of 1836 authorizes a surrender,
and an amended specification, when the patent issued is inoperative, or invalid, by reason of a defective or insufficient
description or specification; or, "if the error has, or shall
have arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent or deceptive intention." Wre do not
doubt that the commissioner had full authority to grant the

Dec. 1868.]

MORBY V. LOCKWOOD.

Opinion of the court.

amendment; and, under the special circumstances of the
case, it would seem to have been a duty, as the inventors
were led into the error by himself, as may be seen from his
letter when the patent was originally granted.
The amendment was very material, as the language of the
original claim tied the patentees down to a syringe, consisting or the parts mentioned, to an instrument in which they
were arranged in an axial, or straight line; tying them down
to the mere form of the construction, regardless of the substance and legal import of the invention. While the original
specification and claim remained, it was competent for any
one to evade the patent, and enjoy the substance of the improvement by a change in the mere form of the construction;
that is, by an arrangement of the several parts in any form,
if not in an axial or straight line. And this is what the
defendants are endeavoring to accomplish, and would have
accomplished, if the amendment of the claim had not been
allowed.
They have constructed a syringe with the same parts and
*materials as used by the patentees; but, instead of arranging
them in an axial line, the bulb or sac is placed above the
point of delivery and discharge of the enema, extending its
hollow neck so that the tubes may connect with each side
of it. The only difference even in form between this aid
the patentees' is, that the latter, in the axial line, tubes connect with the ends of the bulb; in"the former they connect,
not with the ends of the bulb but with the sides of its hollow
neck. The enema passes from the eduction pipe through
the neck or throat into the bulb, and is forced through the
discharge pipe by the same means as used by the patentees.
The mode of operation is precisely the same in both instruments. The change is one of form and not of substance, and
upon well-established principles of patent law, constitutes no
defence to a bill for an infringement.*
As -bearing upon this point it may be stated that the
patentees themselves first constructed and used this form' of
* Curtis on Patents, 260, 261, and note 2, page 264.
VOL. VIII.

16

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

[Sup. Gt.

Syllabus.

syringe; but, becoming satisfied that the other form was the
best, recommended it in their specification accordingly.
They are protected, however, against the use of any form, as
will be seen by the authorities referred to, that embodies
substantially their ideas and mode of operation.
On the question of novelty there are two specimens of
syringe produced by the defendants that are chiefly relied on
as disproving it: one called the Maw syringe, and the other
the Thiers. The first differs from the patentees' in this, that
the cylindrical bulb, or chamber, is made so rigid both in
the material and from its metallic ends, or heads, that it is
not sufficiently elastic to be adapted to practical use; and
for this reason it failed and went out of the market.
The Thiers syringe differed from the patentees' in this,
that part of the bulb or chamber is metal, and part rubber;
and the elastic portion is aided by a spring inside of the
chamber. There is, also, an air-chamber attached to the
delivery pipe. The whole construction and arrangement is
different from the patentees', as they have dispensed with the
metal portion of the bulb, the spring, and the air-chamber,
and substituted a simple India-rubber bulb.
The rest of the proof on this point is conflicting, and we
agree with the court below, that the weight of it is decidedly
with the complainant.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

DRAKELY

v.

GREGG.

]. If, with a full knowledge of the facts concerning it, a person ratify an
agreement which another person has improperly made, concerning the
property of the person ratifying, he thereby makes himself a party to it,
as much so as if the original agreement had been made with him. No
new consideration is required to support the ratification.
2. When evidence tends to prove a contract of a certain character, asserted
by a party before a jury, a court should either submit the evidence on

the point to the consideration of the jury, or if, in the opinion of the
court, there are no material extraneous facts bearing on the question,

and the contract relied on must be determined by a commercial cor-

