Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MOSLEY.

Statement of the case.

a necessary party, his citizenship in the same State with defendant did not defeat the jurisdiction.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

1. The declarations of a party himself, to whomsoever made, are competent
evidence, when confined strictly to such complaints, expressions, and exclamations as furnish evidence of a present eAisting pain or malady, to
prove his condition, ills, pains, and symptoms, whether arising from
sickness, or from an injury by accident or violence. If made to a
medical attendant, they are of more weight than if made to another
person.
2. So is a declaration made by a deceased person, contemporaneously or
nearly so, with a main event by whose consequence it is alleged that he
died, as to the cause of that event. Though generally the declarations
must be contemporaneous with the event, yet where there are connecting
circumstances, they may, even when made some time afterwards, form
a part of the whole res gesto.
3. 'Where the principal fact is the fact of bodily injury, the res gestee are the
statements of the cause made by the injured party almost contemporaneously with the occurrence of the injury, and those relating to the
consequences made while the latter subsisted and were in progress.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois, the case being this :
The Travellers' Insurance Company of Chicago insured
the life of one Mosley for $5000, in favor of his wife.

"Within ninety days, after sufficient proof that the assured at
any time within twelve months after the date of this policy
shall have sustained personal injury, caused by any accident
within t1ie meaning of this policy and the conditions hereunto annexed, and such injuries shall oecasion death within three months
from the happening thereof."

The policy among other provisos contained this one:
", Provided always, That no claim shall be made under this
policy by the said assured, ifi respect of any injury, unless the
same shall be caused by some outward and visible means, nf which
proof satisfactory to the company can be furnished, and this in-

INSURANCE COMPANY V. M0SLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

surance shall not extend to any injury caused by or arising from
natural disease."
Mosley having died within the term for which his life was
insured, his wife, who alleged that he had died from personal
injury, caused by accident, demanded the $5000 of the company, which they declined to pay. She thereupon brought
assumpsit on the policy. The declaration alleged, that on
the 21st of July, 1866, the said Mosley "accidentally fell
down a pair of stairs and was severely injured thereby, and
that he, within three months after the happening of the said
accident, to wit, &c., died from the eflects of the said accidental fall, and that the death was occasioned by the said
injury and accident, and that the defendant had sifficient
proof of said accident and death ninety days before the commencenent of this suit." On a plea of the general issue
and a trial before a jury, the main point in question was the
cause of the death of MPfr. Mosley; the plaintiff contending
that it was the consequence of a fall that he met with in going
into his back yard on the night between the 18th and 19th
of July, 1866, and the defendant, that it was not.
It appeared that Mr. Mosley was in his usual health until
that night; that he and Mrs. Mosley had gone to bed; that
between 12 and 1 o'clock lie got up and went down stairs;
that he came up and complained to his wife and son of having
hhd a fall; and that the symptoms were described by him
at the time; that he continued ill until Monday, the 22d,
when he died. There was testimony, medical and other,
given of his mental and bodily condition from the time of the
alleged accident up to the time of his death ; there was also
medical testimony given of his condition after death, and 'of
an examination of the cranium and brain, externally and
internally. The plaintiff insisted that the evidence she introduced tended to show that Air. Mosley died in consequence
of the fall before referred to, and the defendant insisted that
the evidence introduced by the company tended to show that
death was not caused by any fall, but was in consequence of
disease, (congestion of the brain.)

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

399.

Statement of the case.

Mrs. Mosley testified in her own behalf, that on Wednesday
night, the 18th of July, 1866, she and her husband had gone
to bed. Between twelve and one o'clock he got up and went
down stairs for the purpose of going out back; she didn't
know how long he was gone. When he came back he said
he had fallen down the back stairs and almost killed himself;
that he had hit and hurt the back of his head in falling down
the stairs which led out back. She noticed that his voice
trembled, and she inquired into the matter at once. He
complained of his head, and appeared faint and vomited; he
threw up almost as soon as he got into the room; she got
up, and he laid down on the sofa. He had nothing on but
his pataloons and vest; she didn't sleep any more that night,
and was up vith him all night. He complained and appeared to be in great pain. She asked him if she should send
for Dr. Webster, who lived near, but he said no; he thought
he should be better, and she did not then call the Doctor.
On Thursday morning he said he felt bad, and there was a
recurrence of fainting.
To all that portion of the testimony of Mrs. Mosley which
set forth the declarations of her husband about his falling
down the back stairs and almost killing himself and hurting
the back part of his head, the defendant's counsel objected,
and their objection being overruled, the defendant excepted.
A son of the assured, testified in behalf of the plaintiff,
"that he slept in the lower part of the building occupied by
his father; that about 12 o'clock of the night before mentioned he saw his father lying with his head on the counter,
and asked him what was the matter; he replied that he had
fallen down the back stairs and hurt himself very badly."
The defendants objected to both the question and answer.
An exception to their admission-followed.
The same witness testified further, "that on the day after
the fall, his father said he felt very badly, and that if he attempted to walk across the room his- head became dizzy;
on the following da he said he was a little worse, if anything." The admission of this testimony also was excepted
to by the defendants.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the insurance company.

There was no witness who testified that he saw the deceased fall down stairs; though several did, that there were
such back stairs as it was testified that he spok6 of falling
down.
Verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiff,
and the case being here, the questions as presented by the
bill of exceptions were:
1. Whether the court erred in admitting the declarations
of the assured as to his bodily injuries and pains ?
2. Whether it erred in admitting such declarations to
prove that he had fallen down the stairs?
Mr. Sansum, for the plaintiff in error:
Without spending time upon the first of the'questions presented by a technical division of the bill of exceptions-and
a decision on which, adverse to our view of law, does not
affect our main objections-we contend that the widow must
show1st. That her husband died from injuries caused by accident, and,
2d. That the proof thereof was satisfactory to the insurance
company.
The insurance is not against death generally, but against
death from accidentalinjuries.
1. It is expressly provided that proof satisfactory to the company shall be made. t is the judge as to what proof shall
be satisfactory. This may be a hard agreement, but it is
the contract between the parties, and the court will enforce
the contract that the parties have made. The company, by
refusing to pay, and by contesting the demand, says, that
the proof of the injuries and accident are not satisfactory.
There is no allegation in the declaration that proof of the
injuries and accident has been satisfactory to it.
2. As it is a part of the case, that no witness was called to
prove that the deceased fell down the stairs, it cannot be presumed that evidence was given to prove an accident. And
supposing that the court shall go so far as to hold that the
declarations of the deceased are admissible to establish the

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MOSLEY.

401

Argument for the insurance company.

fact that he did fall, still there is nothing in them to show
that it was an accidental fall.
The declarations of the deceased made to his wife and son
four days before he died, ought not to have been admitted
to establish the fact that deceased did fall down the stairs in
question, because they are clearly h~arsay, and they come
not within any of the exceptions to the general rule that
derivative or secondhand statements are not receivable as
evidence in causa.* The reasons against admitting them
are that the party against whom the evidence is offered has
had no opportunity to cross-examine the original source;
and, that assuming the original statement to be correctly
reported, it was not originally made under the sanction of
an oath; and, though it were made under the sanction of an
oath in judicio, it is not admissible unless the party against
whom it is offered had the right and opportunity to crossexamine, but neglected it.
The fact which defendant in error seeks to establish by
mere declarations, is not one of reputation, nor of pedigree.
or boundary. None of these established exceptions apply.
Nor as dying declarations were they admissible. This is
plain.
Nor are they res gesc. 1es gestic are the surrounding
facts of a transaction, and may b6 submitted to a jury provided they can be established by competent means, sanctioned by the law, and afford any fair presumption or inference as to the question in dispute. And again, declarations
accompanying an act, explanatory of that act, are res gestce.
They are the surrounding facts, explanatory of an act, or
showing a motive for acting. But the principal fact must
be first established, and until it is established, surrounding
facts are not admissible-and, certainly, exhibiting surrounding facts is not establishing a principal fact. For example
A merchant leaves his place of residence or denies himself
to his creditors. That he left his place of residence,, or
denied himself to his creditors, upon an issue of bankruptcy,
* Mima v. Hepburn, 7 Cranch, 290; King v. Inhabitants of Eriswell, 3
Term, 707; Ellicots v. Pearl, 10 Peters, 412.
26
VOL. VIIr

INSURANCE

COMPANY

V.

MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

are material facts; and one of these being proven, his decla
rations made to others explaining why le left it, or denied
himself, are admissible as res geslw; but it would not be competent to show what he said, unless it were first made to
appear that he has denied, or left his place of residence.
Mr. Peck, contra, relied on Aveson v. Kinpaird* as decisive
of the case.
Bepl.-The counsel for the widow cite Areson v. Kinnaird,t
and it is relied upon. But that case makes against the plaintiff. The issue there was, whether the insured was in good
health at the time the policy then in question was effected
on her life by her husband. A few days after the physician
examined her, and made inquiries of her about her health.
She was seen in bed at 11 o'clock in the forenoon; and
a witness was called to testify to the fact that she saw the
deceased in bed at the time mentioned, and that the deceased then said she was not in good health, and that she
was afraid she would die before the policy could be delivered.
The fact that deceased was in bed was established by the
witness. This was a material fact to be established upon
the issue made in the case, viz., whether the deceased was
in good health at the time; and doubtless the declarations
of the deceased were admissible, explaining why she was in
bed. Upon an issue as to whether the deceased was well or
ill at the time in question, her declarations were admissible;
for one's feelings 'while suffering from any malady are the
true indicators of that malady, and how the deceased in the
case cited felt could only be ascertained by what she said.
The case was one of necessity as well as res gestx. The very
nature of that case made it necessary to show what the deceased said as to how she felt; and being found sick in bed,
her declarations why she was there is a surrounding fact,
explanatory of the material fact-being found in bed.
The declarations of the deceased, in the case at bar, as they
show how he felt in the presence of the witnesses, are res
6 East, 188.

t" lb.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

403

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

gesl& so far as they are explanatory of the other facts that
were occurring then. But as evidence of his fall down the
stairs, they are not competent.
The fact that deceased declared to his wife that he had fallen
down the back stairs and hit his head, is not the point here
in controversy. The point in controversy is, did the deceased
fall down the stairs in question, and was the fall accidental?
The declaration of the deceased, made to his wife, as she
says, several days before he died, is all that we have upon
the facts in question. If not competent to prove the fall,
how is it enough to prove the accidental character of it?
Mr. Justice SWAY-E delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois. The action was
upon a policy of insurance. It insured Arthur H. Mosley
against loss of life, or personal injury by any accident within
the meaning of the instrument, and was issued to Mrs.
Arthur H. Mosley, the wife of the assured, for her benefit.
The declaration was in assumpsit. The defendant pleaded
the general issue, and the cause was tried by a jury. The
plaintiff recovered. During the trial, a bill of exceptions was
taken by the plaintiff in error, by which it appears that the
contest between the parties was upon the question of fact,
whether Arthur H. Mosley, the assured, died from the efficts
of an accidental fall down stairs in the night, or from natural
causes.
The defendant in error was called as a witness in her own
behalf, and testified, "that the assured left his bed Wedhesday night, the 18th of July, 1866, between 12 and 1 o'clock;
that when he came back, he said he had fallen down the
back stairs, and almost killed himself; that he had hit the
back part of his head in falling down stairs; . . . she noticed
that his voice trembled; he complained of his head, and appeared to be faint and in great pain."
To the admission of all that part of the testimony which
relates to the declarations of the assured, about his falling
down stairs, and the injuries he received by the fall, the

404

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

counsel of the defendants objected. The court overruled
the objection, and the defendants excepted.
William H. Mosley, son of the assured, testified, in behalf
of the plaintiff, "that he slept in the lower part of the building, occupied by his fhther; that about 12 o'clock of the
night before-mentioned, he saw his father lying with his
head on the counter, and asked him what was the matter;
he replied, that he had fallen down the back stairs and hurt
himself very badly." The defendants objected to both the
question and answer. An exception to their admission followed.
The same witness testified further, "that on the day after
the fall, his father said he felt very badly, and that if he attempted to walk across the room, his head became dizzy; on
the following day, he said he was a little worse, if anything."
The admission of this testimony also was excepted to by the
defendants.
This statement presents the questions which we are called
upon to consider. They are, whether the court erred in
admitting the declarations of the assured, as to his bodily
injuries and pains, and whether it was error to admit such
declarations, to prove that he had fallen down the stairs.
It is to be remarked, that the declarations of the former
class all related to present existing facts at the time they were
made.
Those of the latter class were made immediately, or very
soon after the fall; the declarations to his son, before he returned to his bed-room; those to his wife, upon his reaching
there.
Wherever the bodily or mental feelings of an individual
are material to be proved, the usual expressions of such feelings are original and competent evidence. Those expressions
are the natural reflexes of what it might be impossible to
show by other testimony. If there be such other testimony,
this may be necessary to set the facts thus developed in their
true light, and to give them their proper effect. As independent explanatory or corroborative evidence, it is often

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE COMPANrY V. MOSLEY.

Opinion of the court.

indispensable to the due administration of justice. Such
declarations are regarded as verbal acts, and are as competent
as any other testimony, when relevant to the issue. Their
truth or falsity is an inquiry for the jury.
In actions for the breach of a promise to marry, such evidence is always received to show the affection of the plaintiff for the defendant while the engagement subsisted, and
the state of her feelings afteF it was broken off; and in
actions for criminal conversation, to show the terms upon
which the plaintiff and his wife lived together before the
cause of action arose. Upon the same ground, the declarations of the party himself are received to prove his condition,
ills, pains, and symptoms, whether arising from sickness, or
an injury by accident or violence. If made to a medical
attendant, they are of more weight than if made to another
person. But to whomsoever made, they are competent evidence. Upon these points, the leading writers upon the law
of evidence, both in this country and in England, are in accord.*
There is a limitation of this doctrine that must be carefully
observed in its application.
Such evidence must not be extended beyond the necessity
upon which the rule is founded. It must relate to the present,
and not to the past. Anything in the nature of narration
must be excluded. It must be confined strictly to such complaints, expressions, and exclamations, as furnish evidence
of "a present existing pain or malady."t Examined by the
standard of these rules, the testimony to which this exception relates was properly admitted.
The other exception requires a fuller examination.
Was it competent to prove the fall by the declarations of
the assured made under the circuistances disclosed in the
bill of exceptions?
In T/wlnpson and Wife v. Trevanion,t the action was for the
* 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 102; 1 Phillips on Evidence (last ed.) p. 183;
1 Taylor on Evidence, 478, 518.
f Bacon v. The Inhabitants, &c., 7 Cushing, 586.
$ Skinner, 402.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

battery and wounding of the wife. Lord Chief Justice Holt
"allowed, what the wife said immediately upon the hurt received, and before that she had time to contrive or devise
anything for her own advantage, to be given in evidence."
The reporter adds: " Quod nota. This was at nisi pr-ius, in
Middlesex, for wounding the wife of the plaintiff'." This
case was referred to by Lord Ellenborough with approbation
in the case before him of Aveson v. Kinnaird.* In that case,
Lawrence, Justice, in answer to the objection, that such evidence was hearsay, said: "It is in every day's experience in
actions of assault, that what a man has said of himself, to his
surgeon, is evidence to show what he has suffered by the
assault."t
The King v. Foster4 was an indictment for manslaughter,
for killing the deceased by driving a cab over him. A
wagoner was called as a witness for the prosecution. He
stated that he saw the cab drive by at a very rapid rate, but
did not see the accident, and that immediately after, on hearing the deceased groan, he went to him and asked him what
was the matter. The counsel for the prisoner objected, that
what was said by the deceased, in the absence of the prisoner,
could not be received in evidence.
Gurney, Baron, said, that what the deceased said at the
instant, as to the cause of the accident, was clearly admissible.
Park, Justice, said, that it was the best possible testimony
that, under the circumstances, could be adduced to show
what knocked the deceased down. Mr. Justice Patterson
concurred. The prisoner was convicted.
In the Commonwealth v. Pike,§ the indictment, as in the
preceding case, was for manslaughter. The defendant was
charged with killing his wife. It appeared that the deceased
ran up stairs from her own room, in the night, crying murder, and bleeding. Another woman, into whose room she
was admitted, went, at her request, for a physician. A third
* 6 East, 197.

6 Carrington & Payne, 325.

t 1b. 191.
S3 Cushing, 181.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

V.

MOSLEY.

407

Opinion of the court.

person, who heard her cries, went for a watchman, and, on
his return, proceeded to the room where she was. He found
her on the floor, bleeding profusely. She said the defendant
had stabbed her. The defendant's counsel objected to the
admission of this declaration in evidence. The objection was
overruled. The Supreme Court of Massachusetts held, that
the evidence was properly admitted. It was said that the
declaration was "of the nature of res gesto," and that the
time when it was made was so recent, after the injury was
inflicted, as to justify receiving it upon that ground.
It is not easy to distinguish this case and that of The King
v. Foster, in principle, from the case before us, as regards
the point under consideration.
In Aveson v. Kinnaird, it was said by Lord Ellenborough,
that the declarations were admitted in the case in Skinner,
because they were a part of the res gestce.
To bring such declarations within this principle, generally,
they must be contemporaneous with the main fact to which
they relate. But this rule is, by no means, of universal application. In Rawson v. Haigh,* a debtor had left England
and gone to Paris, where he remained. The question was,'
whether his departure from England was an act of bankruptcy, and that depended upon the intent by which he was
actuated. To show this intent, a letter written in France, a
month after his departure, was received in evidence. Upon
full argument, it was held that it was properly received.
Baron Park said: "It is impossible to tie down to time the
rule as to the declarations. We must judge from all the circumstances of the case. We need not go the length of saying, that a declaration, made a month after the fact, would,
of itself, be admissible; but if, as in the present case, there
are eoninecting circumstances, it may, even at that time, form
a part of the whole res gest."
Where a peddler's wagon was struck and the peddler injured by a locomotive, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
said: "We cannot say that the declaration of the engineer
* 2 Bingham, 99.

408

iNSURANCE COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was no part of the res gesti.
It was made at the time-in
view of the goods strewn along the road by the breaking up
of the boxes-and seems to have grown directly out of and
immediately after the happening of the fact." The declaration
was held to be "a part of the tran action itself."*
In the complexity of human affitirs, what is done and what
is said are often so related that neither can be detached
without leaving the residue fragmentary and distorted.
There may be fraud and fhlsehood as to both; but there is
no ground of objection to one that does not exist equally as
to the other. To reject the verbal fact would not unfrequently have the same effect as to strike out the controlling
member from a sentence, or the controlling sentence from its
context. The doctrine of res gestx was considered, by this
court, in Beaver v. Taylor.t What was said in that case need
not be repeated. Here the principal fact is the bodily injury. The rcs gestx are the statements of the cause made by
the assured almost contemporaneously with its occurrence,
and those relating to the consequences made while the latter
subsisted and were in progress. Where sickness or aiffction is the subject of inquiry, the sickness or affection is the
principal fact. The res gestac are the declarations tending to
show the reality of its existence, and its extent and character.
The tendency of recent adjudications is to extend rather
than to narrow, the scope of the doctrine. Rightly guarded
in its practical application, there is no principle in the law
of evidence more safe in its results. There is none which
rests on a more solid basis of reason and authority. We
think it was properly applied in the court below.
In the ordinary concerns of life, no one would doubt the
truth of these declarations, or hesitate to regard them, uncontradicted, as conclusive. Their probative tbrce would
not be questioned. Unlike much other evidence, equally
cogent for all the purposes of moral conviction, they have
the sanction of law as well as of reason. The want of this
* Hanover Railroad Co. v. Coyle, 55 Pennsylvania State, 402.

I Wallace, 637.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

concurrence in the law is often deeply to be regretted.* The
weight of this reflection, in reference to the case under consideration, is increased by the fact, that what was said could
not be received as" dying declarations," although the person
who made them was dead, and hence, could not be called as
a witness.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting.
Questions as to the rules of evidence "are of vast importance to all orders and conditions of men" interested therein,
as parties in common law suits, as life, liberty, and property
dhpend very largely upon their strict observance, that proper
testimony, pertinent to the issue, may not be excluded, and
that incompetent and improper testimony may not be received.t
"One of these rules," says Chief Justice Marshall, "is thiat
hearsay evidence is, in its own nature, inadmissible. Not
only because it supposes that better testimony might be adduced to prove the alleged fact, but on account of its intrinsic
weakness, its incompetency to satisfy the mind of the existence of the fact, and the frauds which might be practised
under its color." Experience shows that wrong verdicts are
the usual result of wrong rulings in admitting improper testimony, or in rejecting that which was competent and.material., Appellate courts, viewing the matter in that light, are
therefore prompt to correct such errors and to reverse judgments founded on verdicts produced or influenced by such
erroneous rulings.
All courts agree, that the introduction of evidence to
the jury is governed by certain fixed principles of law, and
text writers usually treat the subject under four general
heads: 1. That the evidence must correspond with the allegations and be confined to the issue. 2. That the substance
of the declaration must be proved to warrant a verdict in
* Appleton on Evidence, ch. 11, 12.
t Child v. Hepburn, 7 Cranch, 295; Rex v. Eriswell, 3 Term, 721.

410

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

favor of the plaintiff. 3. That the burden of proving a
proposition or issue lies on the party holding the affirmative.
4. That the best evidence, of which the case in its nature is
susceptible, must always be produced.*
Founded, as the action is, upon a policy of insurance, it
becomes necessary, in order to understand the precise bearing of the rulings embraced in the exceptions, to examine
the terms of the contract, and to refer to the exact issue
tendered in the declaration. By the terms of the policy,
insurance, for the period of one year, in the sum of five
thousand dollars, was granted by the defendants to the late
husband of the plaintiff, against " personal injury caused by
any accidents within the meaning of this policy," . . . and
such injuries as shall occasion death within three months from
the happening thereof, and also against any such personal injury, though not fatal, if the assured was thereby absolutely
and totally disabled from the prosecution of his usual employment. After setting out the policy in full, the declaration
alleges that the assured, on the 1st of July in the same year,
"accidentally fell down a pair of stairs in the city of Chicago,
in said county, and was severely injured thereby," and that
the assured, within three months after the happening of the
said accident, died, and that the death of the assured " was
occasioned by said injury and accident."
Defendants appeared and pleaded that they never promised
in manner and form, as alleged in the declaration, which presented the direct issue, whether the assured met with the
accident and injury described in the declaration, and whether
his death was occasioned by "the personal injuries caused"
by that accident, as therein alleged. Payment of the sum
insured, in case of such personal injury or death occasioned
by any accident within the terms of the policy, was to be
made to the plaintiff, and she was examined as a witness to
support her claim against the defendant corporation.
Several witnesses "testified as to back stairs being there,
leading to the back yard," but "no witness testified that he
* 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,

50.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

411

Opinion of Cliffordi J., dissenting.

saw the deceased fall down the steps," and there was no testimony upon the subject, except that given by the plaintiff
and the son of the deceased, as recited in the bill of exceptions. She testified, that between twelve and one o'clock,
(July 18, 1866), he (her husband) got up and went down stairs
for the purpose described; that she did not know how long
he was gone, but "when he came back, he said he had fallen
down the stairs and almost killed himself; that he had hit
and hurt the back part of his head in falling down the stairs
which led out back."
Objection was duly taken to the testimony of the witness
as to the declarations of the husband, but the court overruled
the objection, and the defendants then and there excepted.
His son was also examined and testified, that he saw his
father, about twelve o'clock that night, lying with his head
on the counter, and that "he asked him what was the matter,
and he answered, that he had fallen down the back stairs
and hurt himself very bad." Seasonable objection was also
made to the introduction of this testimony, but the court
admitted it, and the defendant excepted, as appears by the
transcript.
Viewed in the light of the facts, as here stated, which are
carefully and accurately drawn from the record, I am clearly
of the opinion, that the declarations of the deceased, as
given in the testimony of those witnesses, were inadmissible, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be
reversed.
Mere declarations, made by a third person, not under oath,
it is conceded are hearsay, but the arguinent is, that the declaration given in evidence in this case may be regarded as
part of the res geste, and therefore, that tAe testimony of both
witnesses wad properly admitted as original evidence. Declarations of a party to a transaction, though he was not
under oath, if they were made at the time any act was done
which is material as evidence in the issue before the court,
and if they were nade to explain the act, or to unfold its
nature and quality, and were of a character to have that

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

effect, are treated, in the law of evidence, as verbal acts, and
as such, are not hearsay, but may be introduced with the
principal act which they accompany, and to which they relate, as original evidence, because they are regarded as a part
of the principal act, and their introduction in evidence is
deemed necessary to define that act and unfold its true nature
and quality.*
But such declarations cannot properly be received as evi.
dence, unless the principal act which they accompany and
to which they relate, is, itself, material to the issue to be submitted to the jury, nor unless the declarations were made at
the time the principal act was done, nor unless they were of
a character to explain that act, or to unfold its true nature
and quality, as they are only admissible as incident to the
principal act, and because they are a part of it, and are necessary to explain and define its true character.t
When the inquiry is into the nature and character of a
certain transaction, not only what was done, says Mr. Roscoe,
but also what was said by those present, during the continuanceof the transaction, is admissible for the purpose of illustrating its peculiar character and circumstances.1
Undoubtedly, whenever evidence of an act done by a party
is admissible, the declarations he made, at the time the act
was done, are also admissible, if they were of a character to
elucidate and unfold the act, because they derive a degree
of credit from the act itself, and do not rest entirely upon a
statement not made under oath.§
Unless, however, they were made at the time the act was
done, or during the continuance of the transaction constituting the principal fact, they are not admissible, as in that state
of the case, they cannot derive any credit from the principal
fact, which alone renders them admissible in evidence.
Verbal and written declarations are admissible, says Mr.
*

Enos v. Tuttle, 3 Connecticut, 250.

- Corinth v. Lincoln, 34 Maine, 312; Noyes v. Ward, 19 Connecticut, 269;
:Moore v. Meacham, 10 New York, 210; Osborn v. Robbins, 37 Barbour, 482.
Roscoe on Evidence, 23.
R
Sessions v. Little, 9 New Hampshire, 271.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

CoMPANY V. MOSLEY.

413

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Phillips, "when they accompany some act, the nature, object, or motives of which, are the. subject of inquiry." In
such cases, he says, words are receivable as original evidence,
on the ground, that what is said, at the time, affords legitimate, if not the best, means of ascertaining the character of
such equivocal acts as admit of explanation from those indications of the mind which language affords.*
Evidently, the rule as understood by the author of that
work, would not admit the declarations, unless they were
made at the time the act was done, or during the continuance of the transaction; but the annotator is even more explicit, as he expressly adopts the rule laid down in the.leading
case, that to be a part of the res geste, the declarations must
have been made at the time of the act done, which they are
supposed to characterize, and have been well calculated to
unfold the nature and character of the facts which they are
intended to explain, and so to harmonize with them as obviously to constitute one transaction.t
Much of the difficulty in the application of the rule, arises
from the nature of the principal act, especially, in cases where
it is continuous, or extends for a considerable time, as in
questions of domicile, or of bankruptcy; but there is no difficulty in applying the rule in cases where the principal act is
single and well defined as to time, nor is there any wellconsidered case, which gives any countenance to the admission of such declarations, unless they were made at the time
the principal act was done, or, as in the case of a riot, during
the continuance of the transactions.1
Equity rules are the same as the rules at common law, as
appears by the decision of Chancellor Walworth, In the matter
of Taylor,§ in which he held, that the declarations of parties,
and other attendifig circumstances, in order to render them
Phillips on Evidence, ed. 1868, 185.
t Enos v. Tuttle, 3 Connecticut, 250.
$ Russell v. Frisbie, 19 Connecticut, 209; Carter v. Beals, 44 New Hampshire, 412; Price v. Powell, 3 Comstock, 322; Ridley v. Gyde, 9 Bingham,
351.
9 Paige, 617.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

HOSLEY.

[Sup. Ut.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

admissible as a part of the res gestl, must be contemporaneous
with the main fact under consideration, and to which they
were intended to give character.*
Suppose the rule to be that such declarations are inadmissible, unless made at the time the principal act was done,
still it is contended that the rulings of the court, in admitting the declarations in this case, may be sustained as falling
within the rule laid down in the case of Commonwealth v. McPike,t and the opinion of the majority of the court, as just
read, rests chiefly upon that ground. The indictment, in
that case, was for manslaughter, and the evidence introduced
showed that the deceased, on the morning she received the
mortal blow, ran from her room, where her husband, the de-.
fendant, was, to a room occupied by the witness, in the same
house, crying murder; and when admitted to the room, she
said she was killed. Another witness heard the cry of
murder, and went for a watchman, and when he returned, he
went to the room where the wounded woman was, and,
among other things, she said to him that her husband had
stabbed her, and told the witness what she wanted done, if
she died.
Objection was taken to the statement, as to the declaration
of the wife, that the defendant had stabbed her, but the court
admitted the testimony, and the case was removed to the
Supreme Court for revision. Other exceptions were taken
to the rulings of the court, but they were all overruled, the
court holding that the statement of the wife, as to the cause
and manner of the injury, might be "sustained, upon the
ground that the testimony was of the nature of the res
gestie." No authorities are cited in support of the proposition, and the opinion, upon that point, is very brief, and
seems to rest mainly upon the closing sentence upon that
subject, which is as follows: "In the admission of testimony
of this character, much must be left to the exercise of the
sound discretion of the presiding judge."
Prior to that date, all the decisions of that court had been
* Frink v. Coe, 4 Greene, 556.

t 3 Cushing, 184.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE

CoMPANY

V. MOSLEY.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

in strict conformity to the rule, that declarations not under
oath, in order to be admissible as original evidence, must
have been made at the time the principal act was done or
committed, as before explained, unless they were admitted
as declarations in articulo mortis; and every decision made by
that court, upon that subject, since that case was determined,
is equally explicit in prescribing the same rule. Reference
will be made to a few of the subsequent cases to establish
that proposition.
Where the bodily or mental feelings of a party are to be
proved, the usual and natural expressions of such feelings are
considered competent and original evidence in h is favor.*
Such evidence, however, say the court, is not to be extended
beyond the necessity on which the rule is founded; and they
add, that anything in the nature of narration or statement
is to be carefully excluded, and the testimony (unless the
statement was made by a patient to a medical man) is to
be confined strictly to such complaints and expressions as
usually and naturally accompany, and furnish evidence of,
a present existing pain or malady. Before the year expired,
the same question, under a different state of facts, was again
presented to that court, and in view of the importance of the
questions, and of their frequent occurrence, the court came
to the conclusion to consider the subject somewhat more at
large than they had theretofore done, and to set forth and
illustrate "the principles and tests by which this class of
questions must be determined."t They accordingly decided:
1. That the admission of such evidence is not left to tlhe
discretion of the presiding judge, as had sometimes been
supposed; that its admission is governed by principles of
law, which must be applied to particular cases as other principles are applied, in the exercise of a judicial judgment, and
that errors of judgment in the case, as in other cases, may
be examined and corrected.1
2. That a declaration, if it has its force by itself; as an ab* Bacon v. Charlton, 7 Cushing, 586.
j- Lund v. Tyngsborough, 9 Cushing, 41.
$ Tatham v. Wright, 6 Neville & Manning, 151.

INSURANCE

COVTANY V.

MOSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

stract statement, detached from any particular fact in question, is not admissible in evidence, because it depends for
its effect on the credit of the person making it, and therefore is hearsay.
3. That mere narrative is never admissible, because such
statements are detached from any material act which is pertinent to the issue.
4. That whenever the act of the party may be given in
evidence, his declarations, made at the time, are also admissible, if they were calculated to elucidate and explain the
character and quality of the act, and were so connected with
it as to derive credit from the act itself, and to constitute one
transaction.
5. That there must be a main or principal fact or transaction, and that such declarations only are admissible as grow
out of the principal transaction, serve to illustrate its character, are contemporary with it, and derive some degree of
credit from it.
6. That the main act or transaction is not, in every case,
necessarily confined to a particular point of time, but whether
it is so or not depends solely upon the nature and character
of the act or transaction.
Search is made in vain for any decided case, where the
principles and tests which regulate and control the admission
of such evidence is so satisfactorily stated, and with so much
fulness and clearness as in that case.*
Narration of the cause and manner of the injury has been
carefully excluded since that decision in the courts of that
State, even where the statements were made by a patient to
his physician, as will be seen by the case of Chapin v. Marlborough,t which was decided six years later.
By the statement of the casu, it appears that the plaintiff
called a physician, and wished him to examine his leg, saying that it gave him great pain, and the physician testified,
that he said that he had been struck by a horse, on that leg,
four or five months before.
* Meek v. P~erry, 36 Mississippi, 261.

t 9 Gray, 245.

Dee. 1869.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MOSLEY.

417

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

Seasonable objection was made to the evidence, but the
judge, at the trial, admitted it, and the case was transferred
to the Supreme Court, where a new trial was granted. In
disposing of the case, the court say, the exception must be
0sustained, which was to the admission of the plaintiff's statement to his physician, that his leg bad been struck by a
horse; and the court add, that it was a statement of a fact,
"and was used as evidence of that fact." It was, therefore,
wrongly admitted, which shows to a demonstration, that the
evidence in this case was also wrongly admitted, because it
was admitted and used as evidence to prove that the injury
and death of the assured were occasioned by the alleged accident.
Death was occasioned by a stab, in the case ot Commonwealth v. .iackett,* and it is suggested, that the ruling in that
case qualifies the doctrine, as laid down in the preceding
case, but there is no foundation for the suggestion, as the
court say, that the declaration given in evidence was uttered
immediately after the homicidal act, in the hearing of a
person who was present when the mortal stroke was given,
who heard the first words uttered by the deceased, and who
went to him, after so brief an interval of time, that the
declaration or exclamation of the deceased (I am stabbed)
may fairly be deemed a part of the same sentence as that
which followed instantly after the stab with the knife was
inflicted.
Many bodily sensations and ailments are of such a character that they can only be known to the person who experiences them, and, in view of that fact, the Supreme Court
of that State decided, in the case of Barber v. Merriam,t
that the statements of a patient to his physician, as to the
characte.r and seat of his ailments, when made for the purpose of receiving mqdical advice, were admissible in an
action for a personal injury, but they expressly affirmed the
doctrine of the previous decisions, to,which reference has
been made.
t 11 Allen, 322.

2 Allen, 139.
voL. VIII.

27

INSURANCE COMPANY

V.

MOSLEY.

ESup. Ct.

Opiniln of Cliflbrd, J., dissenting.

Declarations of a narrative character were again offered iu
the subsequent case of Commonwealth v. Densmore et al.,* and
they were again rejected as hearsay evidence; and the leading case of Lund v. Tyngsborough was again approved and reaffirmed.
o
Examined in the light of the decisions made by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, since the case of Commonwealth v. 1IcPike, I am of the opinion, that the rulings of the
Circuit Court, in this case, find no support from any reported
case in the volumes of the Massachusetts Reports.
INext suggestion is, that those rulings may be sustained
upon the authority of the case of Rex v. _oster,t and of the
case of Thompson v. Trevanion,j but those cases are so imperfectly reported that they can hardly be said to be reliable.
Grant, however, that the reports of the cases, though meagre,
are reliable, still, I am of the opinion that the rules of evidence there adopted, are contrary to the modern decisions
in both countries. They are both specially noticed by Mr.
Roscoe, in his valuable Treatise on the Law of Evidence,
and he says, they "are difficult to reconcile with established
principles." Both admit the declarations to extend to the
particulars of what was said, and though they (the declarations) were both made in close proximity to the event to
which they relate, it is very questionable indeed, says the
same writer, whether that ground alone is sufficient to render
them admissible.§
Both of these cases are also cited by Taylor, in his more
recent work upo.n the Law of Evidence, and yet, the rules
which he promulgates, as tests to regulate the admission of
such evidence, show that the rule adopted in those cases is
not good law. His leading tests are as follows:
1. That declarations, though admissible as evidence of the
declarant's knowledge or belief of the facts to which they
relate, and of his intentions respecting them, are no proof of
the facts themselves, and, therefore, if it be necessary to show
12 Allen, 637.
: Skinner, 402.

t 6 Carrington & Payne, 325.
Roscoe's Criminal Evidence, 26.

Dec. 1869.]

Ti~sURANCE

COMPANZY v. MOSLEY.

419

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

the existence of such facts, proof aliunde must be laid before
the jury.*
2. That, although acts, by whomsoever done, are res gestv,
if relevant to the matter in issue, yet, if they be irrelevant,
declarations, qualifying or explaining them, will, together
with the acts themselves, be rejected.t
3. That where an act done is evidence per se, a declaration
accompanying that act may well be evidence,.if it reflects
light upon or qualifies the act, but where the act is, in its
own nature, irrelevant to the issue, and where the declaration per se cannot be received, no case has yet established the
rule, that the union of the two will render them admissible.1
4. That an act cannot be varied, qualified, or explained
by a declaration which amounts to no more than a mere narrative of a past transaction, nor by an isolated conversation,
nor by an isolated act done, at a later period.§
Condemned by all these tests, it is impossible to admit,
that the two cases relied on, as supporting the rulings of the
Circuit Court, can be good law, and if not, then those rulings stand unsupported in principle, or by any well-considered English or American decision.I
Obviously, the main fact in the case before the court was
the alleged accident, and the bill of exceptions finds that
there was no other evidence to prove that material allegation
than the testimony of the plaintiff, and the son of the deceased, who knew nothing of what had occurred, except what
they were told by the injured party.
Whenever the bodily or mental feelings. of an individual
are material to be proved, the usual expressions of such feelings, made at the time in question, are admissible for that
purpose, but they are not admissible to prove a pastoccurrence,
nor to prove that they were occasioned by such an, accident
f Ib. 524.
1 Taylor on Evidence, 5 623.
Ilb. 624; Redfield on Carriers and Bailments, 454.
Taylor on Evidence, 526, N'lutting v. Page, 4 Gray, 584.
II Wright v. Tatham, 5 Clark & Finnelly, 770; S. C. 7 Adolphus & Ellis,
889.
Baker m-Griffin, 10 Bosworth, 142.

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as that alleged in the declaration as the foundation of the
plaintiff's claim.
Mr. Justice NELSONT also dissents from the opinion and
judgment of the court, in this case, and concurs in this
opinion.

BLANCHARD V. PUTNAM.
1. Where, in a suit at law for infringement of a patent, witnesses testify to
previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, the judgment will be reversed unless an antecedent compliance with the requirements of the 15th section of the Patent Act, requiring in the notice
of special matter the names and places of residence of those whom the
defendant intends to prove possessed prior knowledge, and where the
same had been used, appear in the record. And this, although no reversal for this cause have been asked by counsel, but the case have been
argued wholly on other grounds.
2. Semble, That the only proper comparison on a question of infringement,
is of the defendant's machine with that of the plaintiffs, as described in
the pleadings; and that it is no answer to the cause of action to plead
or prove that the defendant is the licensee of the owner of another
patent, and that his machine is constructed in accordance with that
patent.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio, the case being thus:
The 15th section of the Patent Act enacts, that whenever
the defendant relies in his defence on the fact of a previous
invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, "he
shall state in his notice of special matter, the names and
places of residence of those whom he intends to prove to
have possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and where
the same had been used," and if he does not comply with
that requirement no such evidence can be received under the
general issue.
With this statute in force, Alonzo Blanchard and others,
being owners by assignment of a patent for an improvement
in bending wood, granted to Thomas Blanchard, December

