MANDELBAUTN

V.

THE

PEOPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

jurisdiction depends on the Constitution and the acts of Congress. When .these do not confer it, courts of the United
States cannot exercise it.
We cannot take cognizance of a case not brought before
us in conformity with the law.
The case at bar, therefore, must be

MANDELBAUM

v. TuE

DISMISSED.

PEOPLE.

It is error, entitling the aggrieved party to a reversal, for a court, on motion
of a plaintiff, to strike out of an answer that which constitutes a good
defence, and on which the defendant may chiefly rely.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Nevada.

The suit was brought by the Territory against Mandelbaum and Klauber, in a District Court, to recover from them
the amount of certain taxes, which the county assessor had
assessed upon property alleged to be theirs, to wit: upon
goods in a store in Carson City, of the assessed value of
$70,000; upon twenty tons of hay, at $800; upon goods in
store at Kinkead & Harrington's, at $6500; upon timber for
a barn, at $600; and upon one hundred tons of hay in Mr.
Ormsby's storehouse, at $4000, the property of the defendants-the whole amounting tQ $81,900. The different kinds
of tax, and the amount of the assessment were specified.
In an amended complaint, it-was declared that the tax was
assessed between the first Monday of August, 1862, and the
last Saturday in October of the same year; that the property
had not been assessed in the regular list of assessments; and
that it was entered in the tax list of the county under the
head of subsequent assessments.
The answer of the defendants set forth, that the property
described in the complaint was fraudulently and wrongfully
assessed, and was not subject to taxation for the year 1862,
because, as they say, the hay so described was a part of a
growing crop for the year, produced from their ranche in

Dec. 1868.]

MANDELBAUM

v. THE PEOPLE.

311

Statement of the case.

Douglas County; and was not cut or removed from this
county until after the first Monday in August of that year;
and long after they had been duly assessed for all their taxable property in this county, including said ranche, which
was taxed at a valuation of between nine and ten thousand
dollars, and taxes upon which had been fully paid.
The answer further set forth,that of the said extra amount
of goods, some seven or eight thousand dollars in value constituted their stock of goods at Genoa, in Douglas County,
and was included in the assessment and payment of taxes in
that county, and had been brought and added to their stock
in their store in Ormsby County; that the remainder of said
extra amount of goods mentioned in the complaint was not
the property of the defendants, nor was the same within the
county of Ormsby until long after they were assessed and
taxed, and the taxes paid, in said county; that said extra
goods were purchased from the proceeds of their business
houses in the counties of Ormsby and Douglas, the sale of
their goods 'nd other property, and proceeds of their business generally; all of which had been assessed in said counties, and the taxes paid for the year 1862, long before the
making of the pretended assessment in the complaint; that
the timbers and lumber for a barn were not the property of"
the defendants, until after the assessment and taxes paid for
the year 1862; and were obtained in the course of their business after this assessment.
This answer was verified under oath.
The next step in the cause, as appeared from the record,
was that, on the motion of the plaintiff the -court struck out
so much ,of the answer as had no relation to the payment of
the taxes on the seven or eight thousand dollars of property
described in the complaint, and which was alleged in the
answer to have been taxed in Douglas County. This, in
effect, struck out 'the defence set up to all the property as-'
sessed and taxed as charged in the complaint, except the item
above specified. The issue left was then tried by the court,
which held that the defendants had proved payment of a tax
on $5800 worth of property; and gave judgment in favor of

812

MANDELBAUM

v.

Tmiu

PEOPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the tax to the amount of $1522 and costs of suit. To all
which the defendant's counsel excepted.
The court found the following facts: "That the allegations
in the complaint are true; also, that as to the property assessed, as set forth in the complaint, the defendants were
assessed in Douglass County fbr the sum of $5800 on property
in the year 1862, and paid taxes on the same, for which they
are entitled to a credit."
The case was then carried to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, where the judgment was affirmed.
By the statutes of the Territory of 29th November, 1861,
the regular or annual assessment of taxes is made between
the first Monday of March and the first M\onday of August
in each year; and the tax list is to be completed on or before
the last-named day. Then the assessor annexes his warrant
to it, and delivers the same with a map of the tax to the
clerk of the board of commissioners.
It is also provided in the same act that the asgessor, at any
time subsequent to the first Monday of August and prior to
the last Saturday in October, may assess any property which
shall not be on the regular list; and he shall enter such
assessment iu a separate portion of the tax list, under the
head of "subsequent assessments."
.Messrs. TV. S. Cox and NT. Wilson, for the plaintiff in error:
The striking out of the principal part of defendant's
answer was erroneous.
1. Because the proceeding was ex parle, without notice to
the other side, and unwarranted by any principle of law.
2. And principally because the answer set fbrth a valid
defence. The act of 1861 authorizes the assessor, after the
first Monday of August, to assess property which shall not
be on the regular list. This refers to property in existence
and taxable, but omitted from the regular list from accident
or other similar cause. It does not apply to property newly
acquired, and newly brought into the county after the regular assessment has been made. Still less does it apply to
property which is the product or proceeds of that already

Dec. 1868.]

MANDELBAUM V. THE PEOPLE.

313

Opinion of the court.

assessed and taxed; otherwise parties would be subject to
double tax. Yet the answer in the case averred as to the
property charged, that it was all the yield, product, or proceeds of property and business heretofore regularly assessed
and paid for, and was also acquired, made, manufactured, or
realized after the regular legal assessment of all the defendant's property was made, and the taxes paid on it. The act
of striking out the answer was equivalent to a judgment on
demurrer to the, answer in favor of the plaintifs, and was
erroneous, if the defence was valid.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice 1NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It will be seen by reference to the statutes of the Territory
of the 29th November, 1861, that the assessor is only authorized to make subsequent assessments upon the property of a citizen or inhabitant, which was subject to taxation at a regular or annual assessment, and had escaped the
tax from mistake, or otherwise, and which is a very common
provision in every system of taxation. And, if this was the
question presented to the court below, upon the pleadings or
proofs, there could be no doubt as to the correctness of the
decision. But the question presented by the answer was
not one of this description, but of double taxation; for, if
the facts were true as set forth, the property had been taxed
either at the regular assessment, or had been purchased or
procured by the defendants after this assessment; and,
therefore, not the subject of a subsequent tax within the
meaning of the statute. On this ground the answer presented
a perfect defence to the action.
The court below, however, on motion of the plaintiff,
struck out this defence as to all the property except one item
of seven or eight thousand dollars in value, which stood in
the answer in the same category with all the rest of the
property. This singular mode of meeting a legal' defence
set up in the pleadings has not been explained by any counsel representing the plaintiff; and in the absence of such ex-

314

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

planation, we can only apply to it the usual and customary
principles governing pleadings in like cases, and hold that it
was an error which entitled the party aggrieved to a reversal
of the judgment.
If any authority was needed for so obvious a proposition,
we refer to the case of l-ozey v. Buchanan.*
The court there say that it would be as novel as it would
seem to be unjust to strike out of the answer, on motion of
the plaintiff, that which constitutes a good defence, and on
which the defendant may chiefly rely.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND REMITTED TO COURT BELOW.

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

1. It is necessary to the jurisdiction of this court, under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act, that the record show, either by express words or necessary
legal intendment, that one of the questions mentioned in that act was
before the State court, and was decided by it.
2. Neither the argument of counsel nor the opinion of the court below can

be looked to for this purpose.
3. Where there are other questions in the record, on which the judgment of
the State court might have rested, independently of the Federal question, this court cannot reverse the judgment.

motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Missouri. The case purported to be brought here, under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, which gives this court
jurisdiction to review judgments in the highest court of a
State, where there has been drawn in question the validity
of an authority exercised under the United States, and the
decree is against such validity, or where there is drawn in
question the construction of any statute of, or commission
exercised under the United States, and the decree is against
the title, right, or privilege, or exemption specially set up;
ON

16 Peters, 215.

