Dec. 1869.] BRODERICK'S EXECUTOR V. MAGRAW.

639

Statement of the case.

lative and judicial departments of the government. Where
there is a choice of means the selection is with Congress,
-not the court. If the act to be considered is in any sense
essential to the execution of an acknowledged power, the
degree of that necessity is for the legislature and not for the
court to determine. In the case in Wheaton, from which I
have already quoted so fully, the court says that "where the
law is not prohibited, and is really calculated to effect any
of the objects intrusted to the government, to undertake
here to inquire into the degree of its necessity, would be to
pass the line which circumscribes the judicial department,
and to tread on legislative ground. This court disclaims all
pretences to such a power." This sound exposition of the
duties of the court in this class of cases, relieves me from
any embarrassment or hesitation in the case before me. If
I had entertained doubts of the constitutionality of the law,
I must have held the law valid until those doubts became
convictions. But as I have a very decided opinion that Congress acted within the scope of its authority, I must hold the
law to be constitutional, and dissent from the opinion of the
court.

NOTE.

At the same time with the decision of the preceding case
was decided a case in error to the Supreme Court of California, argued some time before it;-the case, namely, of
BRODERICK's EXECUTOR V. MAGRAW,
In which the principles of the preceding case of Hepburn v. Griswold
were affirmed.

The case was this:
Magraw preferred a claim by petition in the Probate Court
of the city of San Francisco, upon a note made by Broderick to
the petitioner at New York, on'the 1st of July, 1858. Broderick
dying, his executor defended the suit.

MCVEIGI

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The defence set up by the executor was a tender of the amount
due in United States notes.
To this it was answered that the executor had collected the
debts due to the estate in coin, and was bound, as trustee, to
pay the coin thus collected to the creditors; and, further, that
the debt was contracted prior to the passage of the legal tender
act, and could, therefore, be satisfied only in coin, according to
the terms of the contract.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the petitioner, and the
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
From that court it was brought by the other party here.
Mir. Carlisle,for the plaintiff in error ;

ir. Wills, contra.

The CHIEF JUSTICE now gave the opinion of the court, to
the effect that it was not necessary to examine the several questions presented by the record, tbr that the principles of the decision just rendered required the affirmation of the judgment
of the Supreme Court, and that it was
AFFIRMED ACCORDINGLY.

MOVEIGII V. UNITED STATES.
A clerical mistake in a writ of error may be amended by the citation.

Mr. Assistant-Alorney _Field, for the United States, moved to
dismiss this case for imperfection in the writ, an exhibition
of which showed that it was dated December 2d, 1868, and
was returnable to "the 3d Monday of December vext." But
a production by Mr. Cushing, contra, of the citation, showed
that it commanded the party to "be and appear at a Supreme
Court of the United States on the 3d Monday of December
instant, pursuant to a writ of error filed in the clerk's office, &c."
And lie argued that the citation was in fact the eflective
document, and the issuing of the writ but an antiquated and
really useless ceremony, practised still but from deference to
ancient form; that accordingly the writ might be amended
by the citation. C. A. V.
MOTION DENIED.

