Dec. 1869.']

BENNET V. FOWLER.
Statement of the case.

BRodes* had been elaborately and ably argued at the last
term) now stated for the plaintiff in errorthat, as was obvious,
there was no essential difference between this case and that,
or Butler v. Horwitz,t which had been adjudged at the same
time, and he relied upon these two decisions as conclusive of
the case.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the judgment of this
court to the effect that the questions being no other than
those already fully considered and determined in the cases
referred to by the counsel, this case was necessarily
REVERSED, AND WOULD BE REMANDED FOR
FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

BENNET

v.

FOWLER.

1. Whether a givetn invention or improvement shall be embraced in one,
two, or more patents, is a matter about which some discretion must be
left 'with the head of the Patent Office; it being often a nice and perplexing question, and one not capable of being prescribed for by a
general rule.
2. Accordingly, in a case where two reissued patents, both related to the
lifting and depositing a load of hay in a mo'w of a barn, or in a rick or
shed, but, in one of them the lifter Was somewhat differently constructed,
so as to adapt it specially to the stacking of hay (which, as this court
assumed, had doubtless led the office to divide the improvements, and
issue separate patents, in a case where the improvements had been embraced in one in the original patefit), the reissue in the twofold form
was held proper.
8. Where the defendant proposes to maintain at the final hearing of a case
in chancery, that his machine does not infringe the complainant's
patent, proof of non-infringement should appear in the testimony.

from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois.
Fowler filed a bill in that court to enjoin Bennet and
others from infringing two reissued patents, No. 1870 and
APPEAL

*7

Wallace, 229.

. t Ib. 258.

BENNET

v.

FOWLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

1869,* for improvements in hay elevators, issued February
14th, 1865. The improvements had been embraced in one,
in the original patent. An analysis of the complainant,
Fowler's, claims presented them thus:
No. 1870.
First Claim: In the construction of elevators for hay, the
combination of the permanent pyramidal supporting frame,
and the revolving cross-bar, and its braces, with a central
supporting piece for allowing the cross-bar, and its braces, to
turn upon the supporting frame, substantially in the manner, and
for the purposes described.
Second Claim: In the construction of elevators for hay, I
claim, in combination with the cross-bar revolving upon an
under supporting frame, the so arranging of the sheaves,
and hoisting tackle, that the weight to be raised shall be
upon one end of the cross-bar, whilst the power to raise that
weight is applied to the opposite end of the cross-bar, for the
purpose of enabling me to use a small and compact structure that
way be easily transportedor moved, occupying but little space, and
sufficiently rigid within itself, without the use of additional guys,
braces, or otherfastenings, as herein described.
Third Claim: II the construction of elevators for hay, I
also claim two pyramidal fr-ames, one placed upon the other,
the under frame being upright, and the upper inverted, and
the head blocks, or apices of both, so united as that the upper
frame may freely turn upon, whilst it is supported by the lower
frame, substantially as described.
No. 1869.
First Claim: So constructing a machine for elevating hay
or other like products, that the same power employed in elevating said products, will also revolve the top of the machine while the
load is being elevated, or when high enough to pass over the top of
the stack, and so that it may be raised from either, or any side
of the machine, and deposited on the stack at any other side, and
wherever desired, substantially as described.
* By some clerical error at the Patent Office, the higher number, 1870,

came before the lower, 1869.

:Dec. 1869.]

BiNNET

v. FOWLER.

Opinion of the court.

Second Claim: An elevator, or crane (when constructed
as herein described) in combination with a device for grasping hay, or other like products, and depositing it upon a stack substantially as described.
The defendants put in an answer setting up various defences to the bill, but no proofs were taken in support of it,
so that it need not be referred to more particularly. The
complainant filed a replication to the answer.
When the cause was brought on for hearing no counsel
appeared for the defendants. After proof of-infringement,
a decree was rendered for the complainant, affirming the
validity of the patents and the infringement, and referring
the cause to a master to take proofs of the gains and profits
of the defendants for the use of the machines.
A good deal of testimony was taken before the master, on
the subject of the gains and'profits, counsel on both sides
appearing before him. The master reported in favor of the
complainant $1860. The counsel took one exception to the
report, namely, that part of the allowance for profits against
the defendants were for infringements of third persons.
The court modified the report in this respect, and reduced
the amount to $1500. A decree having been entered accordingly, the case was brought by the defendants here.
Mr. Coburn, for the appellant, contended:
1. That the court erred in affirming the validity of the two
reissued patents.
2. That the machines of the defendants did not infringe
the complainant's patents.
Mr. Goodwin, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion- of the court.
An objection has been taken by counsel for the defendants that the court erred in affirming the validity of the two
patents, Nos. 1869, 1870.
It may be, that if the improvements set forth in both speci-

fications bad been incorporated into one patent, the patentee

THE CAM ANCHE..

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

taking care to protect himself as to all his improvements by
proper and several claims, it would have been sufficient. It
is difficult, perhaps impossible, to lay down any general rule
by which to determine when a given invention or improve.
ments shall be embraced in one, two, or more patents. Some
discretion must necessarily be left on this subject to the
head of the Patent Office. It is often a nice and perplexing
question. It is true, in the present case both patents relate
to the lifting and depositing a load of hay in a mow of a
barn, or in a rick or shed. But, in No. 1870, the lifter is
somewhat differently constructed, so as to adapt it specially
to the stacking of hay, which, doubtless, led the office to
divide the improvements, and issue separate patents. The
improvements were embraced in one, in the original patent.
The counsel also objects that the machines of the defendants do not infringe the complainant's patents, but, if he
had intended to contest this point, he should have introduced
proof to this effect. Proof of the infringements given, that
the machines made and used by the defendants were substantially like the complainant's, was sufficient, if not rebutted. Models were also produced on the argument before
the court, which confirm this proof.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE CAMANCHE.

1. A corporation is not disqualified, by the simple fact of its being a corporation, from maintaining a suit for salvage. Hence, where a service,
in its nature otherwise one of salvage, was performed by a stock company, chartered to hire or own vessels manned and equipped to be employed in saving vessels and their cargoes wrecked, and to receive compensation in like manner as private persons, and where the persons
actually performing the service had no share in the profits of the company, but were hired and paid under permanent and liberal arrangements and rates of pay-the net profits being divided among stockholders
-such service was held to be a salvage service, and the corporation to
be entitled to pay as salvors accordingly.
2. A suit for salvage cannot be abated on the objection of claimants that
others as well as the libellants are entitled to share in the compensation.

