BRONSON v. KIMPTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The result of such a principle, under the growing tendency to special and partial legislation, would be, to exempt
the rich from taxation, and cast all the burden of the support
of government, and the payment of its debts, on those who
are too poor or too honest to purchase such immunity.
With as full respect for the authority of former decisions,
as belongs, from teaching and habit, to judges trained in the
common-law system of jurisprudence, we think that there
may be questions touching the powers of legislative bodies,
which can never be finally closed by the decisions of a court,
and that the one we have here considered is of this character.
We are strengthened, in this view of the subject, by the fact
that a series of dissents, from this doctrine, by some of our
predecessors, shows that it has never received the full assent
of this court; and referring to those dissents for more elaborate defence of our views, we content ourselves with thus
renewing the protest against a doctrine which we think must
finally be abandoned.

BRONSON

v.

KIMPTON.

The cases of Bronson v. Rodes and Butler v. Horwitz (7 Wallace, 229 and 258)
affirmed.

from the Court of Appeals of New York.
Kimpton filed a bill against Bronson in one of the State
courts of New York to compel satisfaction of a mortgage
executed by him to Bronson on the ground that it had been
paid. The mortgage was given to secure a bond for the
payment of a certain sum in gold and silver coin, lawful
money of the United States. The payment relied on was a
tender of United States notes equal in nominal amount to the
sum due on the bond and mortgage. The Supreme Court of
New York held the tender sufficient, and adjudged satisfaction; and this judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and was now here for review.
Mr. J. A. Townsend (by whom the case of Bronson v.
APPEAL

Dec. 1869.']

BENNET V. FOWLER.
Statement of the case.

BRodes* had been elaborately and ably argued at the last
term) now stated for the plaintiff in errorthat, as was obvious,
there was no essential difference between this case and that,
or Butler v. Horwitz,t which had been adjudged at the same
time, and he relied upon these two decisions as conclusive of
the case.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the judgment of this
court to the effect that the questions being no other than
those already fully considered and determined in the cases
referred to by the counsel, this case was necessarily
REVERSED, AND WOULD BE REMANDED FOR
FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

BENNET

v.

FOWLER.

1. Whether a givetn invention or improvement shall be embraced in one,
two, or more patents, is a matter about which some discretion must be
left 'with the head of the Patent Office; it being often a nice and perplexing question, and one not capable of being prescribed for by a
general rule.
2. Accordingly, in a case where two reissued patents, both related to the
lifting and depositing a load of hay in a mo'w of a barn, or in a rick or
shed, but, in one of them the lifter Was somewhat differently constructed,
so as to adapt it specially to the stacking of hay (which, as this court
assumed, had doubtless led the office to divide the improvements, and
issue separate patents, in a case where the improvements had been embraced in one in the original patefit), the reissue in the twofold form
was held proper.
8. Where the defendant proposes to maintain at the final hearing of a case
in chancery, that his machine does not infringe the complainant's
patent, proof of non-infringement should appear in the testimony.

from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois.
Fowler filed a bill in that court to enjoin Bennet and
others from infringing two reissued patents, No. 1870 and
APPEAL

*7

Wallace, 229.

. t Ib. 258.

