314

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

planation, we can only apply to it the usual and customary
principles governing pleadings in like cases, and hold that it
was an error which entitled the party aggrieved to a reversal
of the judgment.
If any authority was needed for so obvious a proposition,
we refer to the case of l-ozey v. Buchanan.*
The court there say that it would be as novel as it would
seem to be unjust to strike out of the answer, on motion of
the plaintiff, that which constitutes a good defence, and on
which the defendant may chiefly rely.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND REMITTED TO COURT BELOW.

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

1. It is necessary to the jurisdiction of this court, under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act, that the record show, either by express words or necessary
legal intendment, that one of the questions mentioned in that act was
before the State court, and was decided by it.
2. Neither the argument of counsel nor the opinion of the court below can

be looked to for this purpose.
3. Where there are other questions in the record, on which the judgment of
the State court might have rested, independently of the Federal question, this court cannot reverse the judgment.

motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Missouri. The case purported to be brought here, under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, which gives this court
jurisdiction to review judgments in the highest court of a
State, where there has been drawn in question the validity
of an authority exercised under the United States, and the
decree is against such validity, or where there is drawn in
question the construction of any statute of, or commission
exercised under the United States, and the decree is against
the title, right, or privilege, or exemption specially set up;
ON

16 Peters, 215.

Dec.1868.]

GIBSON V. CHOUTEAU.
Statement of the ease.

OR, where there is drawn in question the validity of a statute

of, or an authority exercised under any State on the ground
of their being repugnant to the laws of the United States,
and the decision is in f'avdr of such their validity.
The record showed that the plaintiff below, who was also
plaintiffhere, filed his petition in the Land Court of St. Louis,
to recover of the defendants a tract of sixty-four acres of
land. The petitions stated that Mrs. Mary McRee was, prior
to August 20th, 1862, invested with the title by the United
States, and that ol the day mentioned, she conveyed the same
to him.
The defendant's answer denied the plaintiff's right to the
possession, denied that he had the title, denied Mrs. McRee's
title, set up the statute of limitations, and alleged, that the
title acquired by the plaintiff Was so acquired as agent of the
defendants, and in fraud of their rights. To this, the plaintiff filed two or three replications, going into a minute history of the transaction in which the fraud was supposed to
have originated, and denying it wholly.
On these pleadings, the case was tried by the court without
a jury, and the issue was found for plaintiff, his damages
assessed at six hundred dollars, and judgment rendered for
that sum, and for the possession of the land. A bill of exceptions, which, in the record, made eighty printed pages,
was signed, filled with surveys, deeds, decrees, and testimony
of witnesses, some of which was evidently directed to the
questions of fraud made in the pleadings. It also contained
some ten or twelve prayers for instructions by the plaintiff,
which were refused by the court, as rulings of law, which
relate to the validity of plaintiff's title; also, an instruction
given by the court to the effect, that the patent of the United
States to Mrs. McRee invested her with the title which her
deed transferred to the plaintiff, and that the patent having
issued,within the ten years next preceding the commencement
of the suit, the statute of limitations could not be relied on
as a bar.
On this record, the case was carried to the Supreme Court
of the State, where it was "affirmed in all things" on De.

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff.

cember 3d, 1866. Three days after this, a motion for rehearing was filed. This was, in fact, an argument of counsel.
It cited decisions and urged reasons to show, that the statute
should be regarded as a bar; decisions and reasons which it
alleged that the court had not sufficiently weighed. The
motion for rehearing was granted on the 10th day of the same
month, and the judgment of affirmance set aside, and the
cause ordered to be docketed for a rehearing. This rehearing was had in March, 1867, and in April, the following
judgment was entered:
"Now, again come the parties aforesaid, by their respective
attorneys, and the court being now sufficiently advised of and
concerning the premises, doth consider and adjudge that the
judgment rendered herein by the said St. Louis Land Court be
reversed, annulled, and for naught held and esteemed ; that the
respondent take nothing by his suit in this behalf, but that the
appellants go thereof without day, and recover of the said respondents their costs and charges herein expended, and have
execution therefor. Opinion filed."
It is proper to state that, by the code of practice in the
State courts of Missouri, an equitable defence may be set up
in a common law action, there being no separate chancery
jurisdiction in those courts.
The matter which, on this case, the plaintiff conceived to
have been decided against him in the Supreme Court of Missouri, and which, as he assumed, gave this court jurisdiction,
was, that the statute of limitations of Missouri ran against the
title of the plaintiff, while the same was in the United States,
and before it had been transferred by the patent of 1862 to
Mrs. MeRee. And the question which was before this court,
on review for its consideration, was, whether it appeared
from this record, either by express words or by necessary
legal intendment, that the court did decide that proposition.
If it did, then this court had jurisdiction under the already
quoted 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Messrs. McPherson and Gibson,for the plainliff in error, contended that it did, sufficiently and to a reasonable intent, so

Dec. 1868.] J

GIBSON v. CHOUTEAU.
Opinion of the court.

appear; a matter made even more plain, as they argued, by
reference to the opinion of the court and by the motion for
rehearing.
MZlfessrs. Glover and Bill, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The record presented to the Supreme Court questions the
validity of Mrs. MeRee's title, the transfer of her title to
plaintiff, the trust asserted by which plaintiff's title enured
to the benefit of defendants, and the statute of limitations.
On all these the court below must have found for plaintiff,
for such a. finding was essential to his recovery. The first
judgment of the Supreme Court affirming the judgment of
the Land Court must also have found all these issues for the
plaintiff.
We are asked now to hold that the second judgment of
the Supreme Court, which reversed that of th6 Land Court,
was founded on the question of limitation. If we look to
the language used in the judgnent of the court in setting
aside its judgment of affirmance and granting a rehearing,
or in the final judgment of reversal, we can see nothing to
justify that inference.
This court has decided, in the case of Rector v. Ashley,*
following Williams v. Norris,t that the opinion of the court
cannot be resorted to for the purpose of showing that a question of Federal cognizance was decided by the State court.
In the present case it is said that the application for a rehearing was based exclusively on'the question of the statute
of limitation. That which is here called a motion for a rehearing is merely an argument of counsel setting forth numerous decisions of the courts, and many reasons of counsel
why the statute should be held to be a bar; and it insists that
this question had not received sufficient attention at the
hands of the court. It is not easy to see how this argument
can be regarded as a part of the record of the case. It can
* 6 Wallace, 142.

12 Wheaton, 117.

CLARK V. IREYBURN.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

have no better claim to be so regarded than the opinion of
the court, which accompanies the record.
If, however, it could be treated as part of the record, it
affords no conclusive evidence that the rehearing was granted
on that ground.
But if we could infer that the rehearing was granted because the court was of opinion that it had not well considered
that question, it is to be remembered that the reargument
took place four months afterwards, that there is nothing to
show what might then have been presented by counsel on
either side, or what might have been considered by the
court, for the case was fully opened, by setting aside the
former judgment, to every consideration which could rightfully influence the decision. It is hardly a reasonable inference, under these circumstances, that the court did decide
the case on the question of the statute of limitation, and certainly it does not appear that the case was necessarily decided
on that question, or that the proposition was essential to the
judgment.
It is our opinion, therefore, that under the repeated decisions of this court, this record presents no case of which
we have jurisdiction. The writ of error is therefore
DISMISSED.

CLARK V. REYBURN.
1. A decree of strict foreclosure, which does not find the amount due, which
allows no time for the payment of the debt and the redemption of the
estate, and which is final and conclusive in the first instance, cannot, in

the absence of some special law authorizing it, be sustained.
2. No such special law exists in Kansas.
3. Where, after a mortgage of it, real property has been conveyed in trust
for the benefit of children, both those in being, and those to be born ;
all children in esse at the time of filing the bill of foreclosure, should

be made parties.

Otherwise, the decree of foreclosure does not take

away their right to redeem. A decree in such a case against the trustee
alone, does not bind the cestui que trusts.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court for the District
of Kansas, in a case in which one Reyburn had filed an

