SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

SEYMOUR

v.

FREER.

1. In May, 1835, en agreement was entered into between Price and Seymour,
which provided, on the part of Price, that he should devote his time and
best judgment to the selection and purchase of land, to an amount not
exceeding five thousand dollars, in certain designated States and Territories, or in such of them as he might find most advantageous to the interest of Seymour; that the purchases should be made during the then
existing year, and that the contracts of purchase should be made, and
the conveyances taken in the name of Seymour; and ft the part of
Seymour, that be should furnish the five thousand dollars; that the lands
purchased should be sold within five years afterwards, and that of the
profits made by such purchase and sale, one-half should be paid to Price,
and bein full for his services and expenses. Under this agreement, lands
having been purchased by Price and the title taken in the name of Seymour; Held,
i. That Seymour took the legal title in trust for the purposes specified; that
is, to sell the property within the time limited, and, after deducting
from the proceeds the outlay, with interest and taxes, to pay over to
Price one-half of the residue; and that, to this extent, Seymour was a
trustee, and Price the cestai que trust.
ii. That the trust continued after the expiration of the five years, unless
Price subsequently relinquished his claim ; the burden of proof as to
such relinquishment resting with the heirs of Seymour.
iii. That the principle of equitable conversion being applied to the case,
and the land which was to be converted into money, being regarded and
treated in equity as money, the personal representative of Price was the
proper person to maintain this suit, and it was not necessary that his
heirs-at-law should be parties.
2. The statute of limitations has no application to an express trust where
there is no disclaimer.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois.
On the 9th of May, 1835, Henry Seymour, residing at
Utica, New York, and Jeremiah Price, residing at Chicago,
Illinois, entered in New York, into a contract, thus:

"The said Price agrees that he willfbrthwith devote his tim(
and attention, and exercise his best judgment, in exploring ant
purchasing land, to an amount not exceeding $504, in th4
States of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, and in the Territories ol
'Michigan and Wisconsin, or in such of them as he may find mos

Dec.1868.]

SEYmOUR v. FREER.
Statement of the case.

advantageous to the interest of said Seymour, in whose name the
contracts and conveyances shall be made and taken. The pur..
chases shall be made after full and carefal searches and explorations, for the most profitable investments, on or near the sites
or expectant sites of towns or places of business, and, in general,
in tracts of ground of moderate extent; and the said Seymour
covenants, on his part, to furnish $5000 for the above contemplated purchases, and that the lands, purchased as aforesaid,
shall be sold withinfive yearsfrom the presenttime and out of the profit
which may be made by such purchase and sale (after charging to
the investment, the taxes and other charges, if any, together with
7 percent. interest on the investment and the charges last mentioned), there shall be paid to the said Price, one-half of the same,
which one-half of the profit shall be infull of his services and expenses
of every kind in making the aforesaid explorations, searches, and in
doing all such other things as may be requisite and proper in
making the contemplated purchases. It is understood that the
purchases shall be made during the present year, and that no
payment for services or expenses will be made by said Seymour,
ercept from the profits made as aforesaid."
Contemporaneously with the making of the contract, Seymour placed into the hands of Price the $5000 mentioned in
it. And between June and October, 1835, Price bought about
thirty pieces of land in Illinois, thus using all the money.
The lands wvere unproductive, and consisted,in their sundry
parcels, of two thousand four hundred and forty acres, and
some village lots, situate in Joliet. It was all conveyed to
Seymour.
In August, 1837, Seymour died; he left two sons, viz,
Horatio and John F., and four daughters, two of them being,
at his death, and at the expiration of the five years mentioned
in the contract, infants. By his will, he appointed Horatio,
John F., and another, his executors; and his real estate, under
the directions of his will, went to his heirs, except the share
of one daughter, which was vested in trustees.
No part of the land was sold during the five years specified
in the contract. Itwas admitted of record that, at the expiration of the time. for sale, stated in the contract (May,

SEYMOUR v. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

1840), the lands were unsalable, and that it was entirely
uncertain how much they could have been sold for, or whether
they would ever have brought enough to repay the original
investment and interest.
During the five years, there were no taxes upon, or expenses as to the lands purchased, except taxes upon the lots
in Joliet, amounting, in all, to $19.33. These were paid by
Price, with money furnished by Seymour. Subsequently to
the five years, Price, till his own death, in 1854, paid the
taxes on the lands; Seymour's executors furnishing him the
money to pay them, as also to pay any small expenses he
was put to.
The accounts of Price (independently of the outlay for
the purchase, and in which all the taxes and expenses just
spoken of were entered), began March 4th, 1837. They
were headed:
"Account of payments on account of H. Seymour."
They began 24th December, 1841, comprised eighty-four
items amounting to $2054, and ran to near the date of
Price's death in July, 1854, terminating 16th June, 1854.
The items were chiefly of taxes on the different pieces of
property. But there were several charges for postage on
letters, for a small item of travelling expense in paying taxes,
for interest on small sums advanced to pay taxes, &c., and
one in March, 1845, of $1.53 paid as a charge for advertisino
a county tax, " because," said the account, "funds not sent."
But there was no charge or claim for services by Price or
any other person as agent. In fact, in one or more instances
'he apparently suffered lands to be sold for taxes. At the
date of Price's death all Price's charges for taxes paid and
for these small outlays had been settled; Seymour's executors having sent him, from time to time, and apparently as
informed of them, checks for the sums due. Between December, 1841, and Price's death in July, 1854, the executors
had thus sent him about sixteen different checks.
Price, as already said, died in July, 1854, in Illinois.
John High became his administrator. High now looked

DWe. 1868.]

SEYMOUR

v.

FREER.

Statement of the case.

after the lands; under what exact source of interest was a
matter ,disputed. His accounts of money received and of
lands sold were thus headed:
"Account of money received from heirs and devisecs of Henry
Seymour, deceased (after his decease and after decease of Jeremiah Price), by John High, Jr., as agent for heirs and devisees,
to pay taxes and other expenses on lands aforesaid."
" Account of sales made by John High, Jr., as agent for estate, heirs and devisees of Henry Seymour, deceased, from lands
purchased by Jeremiah Price, deceased."
In 1855 and 1856, High negotiated sales of portions of
the land, which were consummated by contracts executed
by the heirs and the purchasers. The sales were profitable.
Two hund;ed acres were sold for $69,200; and High now,
as administrator of Price; alleging that the original outlays,
costs, and interest had been repaid, claimed one-half the surplus; contending that he was entitled to it under the contract of 1835. The representatives of Seymour not being
of this opinion, High (who dying in the coarse of the suit
was succeeded by Freer), now, February, 1857, filed a bill
in the court below against all the executors of Seymour,
his heirs-at-law, and the trustees of the cestui que trust's
daughter.
The bill set out the contract, stated that no sales had been
made within the five years, and that Price had not insisted
on their being so made, because it was thought that the interest of all parties would be promoted by holding on for
better times, but that nothing was done to release Seymour
or his representatives from their original obligations; that
High, after Price's death, had acted as agent of Seymour's
representatives, and effected sales; and that the original
$5000, interest, &c., being all refunded, and the surplus
being clear profits, he, High, as administrator, claimed onehalf of it for the estate of Price, and that he had always
been and was now ready to agree upon and define the relative rights of the two estates, and divide the profits, but that

SEYMOUR

v.

FREER.

[Slip. Ct,

Statement of the case.

in consequence of the number of the parties interested, on
Mr. Seymour's part, the distance of their residence from the
subject-matter, the death of the original party, and the intervention of descents, marriages, &c., and friom the refusal of
several of the parties so in interest to admit Price's rights,
he was afraid that in case the residue of the lands should be
sold out, and the whole converted into money and be allowed
to go into the hands of Seymour's representatives, lie would,
owing to their number and to the fact of their residence
being without the jurisdiction of the courts of the State
where the whole profits had been made, lose Price's share;
on which account as he conceived the interposition of a
court of equity was necessary. Price's heirs were not made
parties to the bill.
The answer, admitting the agreement, purchase, and advance of money, stated that the lands were situated near
Price's residence, and being wild required no particular
care; that during the five years Price did nothing except
what was required of him by his agreement; that at the
death of Seymour one of the defendants was' a married
woman, and two others were infants. It denied that the
omission to sell during the five years was for the benefit of
the defendants, but averred, on the contrary, that both Seymour, in his lifetime, and the defendants, afterwards, had
at all times been anxious to sell if they could do so without
loss. It denied that Price did not waive a right to have the
property sold within five years, but averred, on the contrary,
that he did. It averred, moreover, that Price always treated
the defendants as the sole owners, and solely entitled to the
proceeds, and never pretended to have any interest; that lie
refused to pay the taxes or any portion of them; " but
claimed that he ought to be allowed a reasonable compensation for his services as agent, and not under the contract ;"
that the defendants had always been willing to allow him
such compensation. It set up further that by the legal effect
of the agreement Price's interest was to be half the profits
to be got upon a sale to be made in five years, and averred
that no profits on sales could be made or were made within

Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR V. FREER.
Statement of the case.

that time; and averred that the defendants had in no way
continued or extended the agreement with Price.
As to any claim for a breach of the agreement in not selling in five years, the answer pleaded the statute of limitations.
As to the agency and the expenditures of High, it stated
that after the death of Price he, High, was requested by
Horatio and John F. Seymour to find purchasers for the land
if he could; but that he had no other power respecting the
lands; that the contracts for the parcels sold were executed
by the defendants and not by High; that the negotiations
for such sales were made by the defendants through High,
and were subject to the ratification of the defendants, and
that High was not employed in consequence of any relationship which he had to Price or to his estate, or on account of
the agreement between Henry Seymour and Price.
Finally, it denied that any cause existed for .the interposition of a court of equity, submitted that the defendants were
improperly joined, for the want of a common interest among
them, and asserted that no receiver was wanted, the devisees
of Seymour being all well known as citizens of New York,
and fully competent to dispose of the lands without the aid
of a receiver, and nbt wanting in ability to refund, &c.
General replications were filed. No proofs were taken,
nor did it appear from the evidence, that any letters from
either side were called for or produced. Certain facts were
admitted.
An interlocutory decree making a reference to a master
adjudged that Price, by virtue of the agreement of 1835,
was "entitled, as an equal copartner" in the prQperty to one
equal half of the net profits made, or to be made from the
sales; that the lands having been purchased by Price as an
"adventure or investment on joint account of himself and
said Seymour," the sales already made'and the sales yet to
be made were to be deemed and taken as made, and to be
made "on joint account" of the estates of Seymour and
Price.
The final decree recited the former decree and a master's

Si3Y2ouR v. FtREER.

[S.up. Ot.

Argument for the appellants.

report made to enable the court to administer the property
on "just partnership principles," and, after making a disposition of the proceeds of' sales of the lands, it provided
that "the balance whih shall remain thereof being clear
profits of the partnership land purchase and sale up to the
present time, be equally divided between the parties in this
suit: one-half to the complainant, and the other half to be
held by the heirs and devisees of Henry Seymour, deceased."
And it spole of "closing and selling the partnership accounts so far as the sales and collections have progressed."
The solicitor of the complainants, by consent of parties,
was appointed receiver, with an agreement that he might sell
at private sale.
The representatives of Seymour brought the case by appeal here.

Messrs. Kernan and Denio, for the appellants:
This contract, by its terms, plainly excludes implication
that the lands are subject to the rules of law applicable to
partnership property. The view of the court below is
directly in the face of the authorities, including one in this
court.*
, The main question then is the interpretation of the contract and whether, no sales having been practicable within
the five years, the old arrangement either remained or was
re-established ?
The contract is one suigeneris. The year in which it was
made was an era of great activity in settling lands in the
West. "Sites or expected sites of towns or places of business" were sought for with avidity, and they doubled in
value or increased in a yet greater ratio in a few months, in
the hands of the possessors. MAr. Seymour was disposed to
enter into this field with a considerable sum of money, and
Price, who it is to be presumed had local knowledge and an
aptitude foir selecting lands, was willing to aid Seymour with
* Berthold v. Goldsmith, 24 Howard, 536, 542; Hesketh v. Blanchard, 4
East, 144; Vanderburgh v Hull, 20 Wendell, 70, 71.

Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR

V. F REER.

Argument for the appellants.

his local knowledge and active agency for a collateral consideration precisely defined. The question was, how this consideration should be arranged. It was resolved that Seymour
should become the purchaser with his own moneys, and
Price the purchasing agent, and that the latter should receive
(instead of a per diem allowance, or a commission on the'
amount of the investment, or the interest of a partner in the
ultimate profit or loss), one-half of the profits to be got on a
sale of the lands within five years, and should have no such
interest as would in any event subject him to a loss or compel him to advance money. This, at least, is what is specified in precise language. The enterprise was to be rapidly
conducted and speedily wound up. Price was to set about
the purchases forthwith. The purchases were all to be made
in the then present year, and the lands were all to be sold
within five years; and the compensation of Price was expressly made to depend upon, and be measured by the results
of a transaction thus to be carried on and consummated.
And to preclude any pretence of a claim in any other aspect,
it is twice inserted that his compensation is to be limited to
a moiety of the profits thus arising, and that he is to have no
other compensation.
Such a contract was, in that day, a reasonable one, and
there is no ground for believing that the parties meant something beyond what they said.
If this is so, the land having become unsalable in 1840,
the representatives of Price had not, at the commencement
of this suit, any interest in the proceeds of the land subse
quently sold or in the unsold lands remaining.
If, however, the representatives of Price have any interest
in the profits, the remedy is by an action of law upon the
contract. There is no suggestion that if in such an action
the plaintiff establishes his righti to a half of the profits, the
defendants are not able and willing to pay him.
The rights of Price and his representatives were barred by
the lapse of time.
Any personal action for not selling in-five years was long
since barred by the statute, as the answer sets up.
VOL. VIII.

14

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

The remedy in equity, if there was any, is sought after
the lapse of so long a period that upon settled principles of
equity the demand will not be enforced. It will be considered a stale demand.
In addition to the defence of a bar by the statute, and to
the defect of misjoinder of Seymour's executors in a matter
where they had no interest, the bill omits to make Price's
heirs a party. If Price's estate has any interest in the
matter, they are chiefly interested and should be parties.
Price died in July, 1854, more than fourteen years after
the alleged default in selling. le never, during his lifetime,
once requested that the lands should be sold, or made any
claim to an interest in them. The heading of the accounts
negatives all such ideas. The fact that be attended to the
payment of taxes with money remitted by Mr. Seymour's
representatives, is quite consistent with the character of an
agent, and that he let the lands be sold rather than pay taxes
himself, is consistent with no other idea. High's accounts
show that he was employed by the heirs and devisees of
Seymour as their agent. The fact that they both acted distinctly
as agents, rather rebuts the idea of any other relation. It
is a circumstance of weight that a peremptory sale at any
time during these twenty years would have resulted in a loss
which Seymour's representatives must have borne alone, as
Price and his representatives were in no way bound to contribute; as it also is that during all this time the burden upon
the devisees of Seymour was increasing at a rapid rate by
the accumulation of interest and taxes and the expenses of
agency. Good faith required, on both accounts, that Price
should have advised the other party that he claimed a continuing interest, if such was the fact. All idea of a continuance
of the contract by mutual consent is thus repelled. But, as
the contract looked solely to a sale in five years, and limited
the interest of Price to the profits to be made upon such a
sale, it required a plain understanding on both sides to continue and extend the arrangement to sales to be made afterwards.
By the decree the heirs of Seymour are deprived of all

Dec. 1868.]

SEYmoUR V. FREER.
Opinion of the court.

authority and control over the lands; title is taken from them
and vested in a receiver. But there is no allegation that
Seymour or his heirs have violated their duty under the contract; nor that they acted improvidently in disposing of the
land sold; or that there is any apprehension that they will
not disposeof the residue for the best interest of all concerned.
They reside where Mr. Seymour did when the contract was
made, and are responsible persons. The only ground of
complaint is, that the appellants deny that, by the contract,
they are bound to pay over to the representatives of Price a
share of the proceeds of the land after the same are sold.
But this is not an adequate cause for equity to compel a
specific performance. Much less does it authorize the court
to take the property from the appellants and place it in the
hands of a receiver, to be sold by him.
Mr. Mather, contra, argued at length that the case was one
of partnership, citing numerous authorities, and that at all
events the evidence showed that both Price and High regarded Price as interested, he having no compensation otherwise than in an ultimate share of profits for his many years
of service; that selling had gone off without default on either
side; the thing being nursed along till a good price could be
got; that the case being one of partnership and trust, chancery had special jurisdiction; that the statute did not run
against a trust; that there were no laches; and that the relief given was but adequate and proper.
Mr. Justice SWAYlE delivered the opinion of the court.
The contract which lies at the foundation of this suit, was
entered into by Jeremiah Price and Henry Seymour on the
9th of May, 1835. Upon looking into it carefully, we find
it contains the following provisions:
Price agreed that he would devote his time and attention
and exercise his best judgment, in purchasing lands to an
amount not exceeding $5000, in the States of Indiana, Illinois, and Ohio, and in the Territories of Michigan and Wisconsin, or in such of them as he should find most advantage-

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ous for the interest of Seymour: the contracts were to be
made and the conveyances to be taken in Seymour's name:
the purchases were to be made after full and careful search for
the most profitable investments "in or near the sites or expected sites of towns or places of business," and in general in
tracts of land of moderate extent: Seymour agreed to furnish
$5000 wherewith to make the purchases contemplated: that
the land so purchased should be sold within five years from the
date of the contract: that after charging the investment, the
taxes, and 7 per cent. interest on the investment, there should
be paid to Price one-half of the profits which should be made:
it was agreed that this half of the profits should be in full
for Price's services and expenses of every kind in making
the explorations and searches, and in doing all such other
things as should be requisite and proper in making the purchases: the purchases were to be made during the current
year: nothing was to be paid by Seymour for Price's services
or expenses, except from the profits as aforesaid. The premises in controversy were bought by Price, and the titles vested
in Seymour, pursuant to the contract. The property consisted
of 2 4 4 0y. acres of land in the State of Illinois, and several
lots in the village of Joliet, in that State.
It was agreed by the parties to this suit, that at the expiration of the five years within which the premises were to be
sold, they were unsalable, "and that it is entirely uncertain
how much they could have been sold for, or whether they
would even have brought enough to pay the original investment and interest."
Before the commencement of the suit the property had
become very valuable; 200 acres had been sold for $69,200.
Seymour died in 1837, and Price in 1854. The five years
within which the property was to be sold, expired in 1840.
The duties and obligations with which the contract clothed
Price, were those of an agent. He was to make the requisite
searches and explorations in the States and Territories named,
and to receive and invest the money of Seymour as he might
deem best for Seymour's interest. He was to contribute his

:Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR V. FREER.
Opinion of the court.

time, labor, skill, and judgment, but no money except what
might be expended in the service he had undertaken to perform. The titles were all to be taken in the name of the
principal, who was to advance the money. These functions
were performed by Price. His duties and responsibilities
thereupon came to an end, and those of Seymour to him
commenced. For his expenditures, whatever they might be,
he was to receive no immediate or certain return. The same
remark is applicable in respect to his labor and services, and
the exercise of his skill and judgment. Everything to be
done by the agent he was to do, without any charge to his
principal.
Seymour was to receive the titles of the property purchased,
as if the purchases had been made by himself at home. All
the burdens incident to the acquisition of the property were
to be borne by Price, with only the contingency of reimbursement and compensation provided in the contract.
The lands were to be sold within five years. It is not stated
by whom, but as the legal title was vested in Seymour, the
duty of selling, by the clearest implication, devolved upon
him. Price had no power to move in the matter, nor to
exert any control, except the right to insist that the property should be sold by Seymour, within the time limited,
and that the sales should be fairly conducted.* By an implication equally clear, Seymour was to pay all the taxes upon
the property which might accrue.
It is proper here to consider the legal and equitable relations of the parties arising out of the contract.
We think Seymour took the legal title in trust for the
purposes specified. A trust is where there are rights, titles,
and interests in property distinct from the legal ownership.
In such cases, the legal title, in the eye of the law, carries
with it, to the holder, absolute dominion; but behind it lie
beneficial rights and interests in the same property belonging
to another. These rights, to the extent to which they exist,
are a charge upon the property, and constitute an equity
*Mann

v. Butler, 2 Barbour's Chancery, 368.

SEYMOUR v. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which a court of equity will protect and enforce whenever
its aid for that purpose is properly invoked.* Interests in
real estate, purely contingent, may be made the subjects of
contract and equitable cognizance, as between the proper
parties.t The object of the trust here was to sell the property within the time limited, and, after deducting from the
proceeds the outlay, with interest and taxes, to pay over to
Price one-half of the residue. To this extent, Seymour was
a trustee, and Price the cestui que trust. They had a joint interest in the property. Seymour held the legal title, but the
rights of Price were as valid in equity as those of Seymour
were at law.
If Seymour, within the five years, had conveyed the property to one of his children, by way of advancement, or to
a stranger, otherwise than upon a bona fide sale fbr its fiir
value, the grantee would have taken the title, subject to the
trust upon which Seymour held it, and a court of equity
would have followed the property and dealt with it in all
respects as if the title had still remained in Seymour. If a
valid sale had been made, the trust would have followed and
bound the proceeds in like manner as it bound the property.1
Upon the death of Seymour, the legal estate passed to his
devisees.
The principle of equitable conversion has an important
bearing upon the case. Equity considers that as done which
is agreed to be done. Money which, according to a will or
agreement, is to be invested in land, is regarded, in equity,
as real estate; and land which is to be converted into money,
is regarded as money, and treated accordingly.ยง In this
view of the subject, the personal representative of Price is
the proper person to maintain this suit, and it is not necessary
that his heirs-at-law should be parties.
There is another view of the subject, which we think may
* 2 Story's Equity,

964; Sturt v. Mellish, 2 Atkyns, 612.

t Phyfe v. Wardell et al., 5 Paige, 268; Armour v. Alexander, 10 Id. 571.
1 Oliver v. l'iatt, 3 Howard, 401 ; Taylor v. Plumer, 3 Maule & Selwyn,
662; Sweet v. Jacocks, 6 Paige, 356; Wylie v. Coxe, 15 Howard, 416.
,Anstice's Administrator v. Brown et al., 6 Paige, 448.

:Dec. 1868.]

SYMOUIt v.

FiEER.

Opinion of the court.

properly be taken. The agreement, that the property should
be sold, and half of the profits paid to Price, was a charge upon
the property, and gave him a lien to the extent of the amount
to which he should be found entitled upon the execution of the
agreement, according to its terms. The principle involved
in this proposition, is a*familiar one in equity, and constantly
applied in the administration of its jurisprudence.*'
It is insisted by the appellees that the contract made the
parties copartners in respect to the lands to be bought. We
cannot adopt that view of the subject. The adjudications
which bear upon it are conflicting and irreconcilable. The
case of .Berthold et al. v. Goldsmitht is conclusive in this forum
against the proposition. We deem it sufficient to refer to
that authority, without reproducing the considerations which
control the judgment of the court.
But the result is the same as if we held that the parties
were copartners. In that event, Seymour would still have
held the property as trustee for the firm, according to' the
rights of the respective members.
The appellants contend, that for any violation of the contract to the injury of Price, he had a remedy at law, and that
neither he nor his legal representative could have any other.
An action at law, sounding in damages, may, undoubtedly,
be maintained in such cases for the breach of an express
agreement by the trustee, but this in nowise affects the right
to proceed in equity to enforce the trust and lien created by
the contract. They are concurrent remedies. Either, which
is preferred, may be selected. The remedy in equity is the
better one. The right to resort to it, under the circumstances
of this case, admits of no doubt, either upon principle or
authority. Such, in our judgment, were the effect and consequences of the contract.
* Pinch v. Anthony and others, 8 Allen, 539; Legard v. Hodges, 1 Vesey,
Jr.477; Roundell P.Breary, 2 Vernon, 482; Gardner v. Townshend, Cooper's
Xquity Cases, 303; 2 Story's Equity, . 1, 214-16-17; Denston v. Morris, 2
Edwards' Chancery, 37.
j 24 Howard, 536.
1 Anderson v. Lemon, 4 Selden, 236.

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

At the end of the five years, limited for its complete fulfilment, a new element, not anticipated by the parties, and,
hence, not provided for, intervened. The property, if then
sold, would have afforded no profit. There would have been
nothing to divide. It is uncertain whether it would have
yielded enough to reimburse the cost and interest. According to the views we have expressed, there was a trust and
lien for the benefit of Price. They could be destroyed only
by some thing subsequently to occur. Either Price or Seymour's devisees might have insisted upon the sale of the
property according to the contract. This would have extinguished the rights of both parties touching the lands, but
it would have benefited neither. There would have been
no profit for either party. Price would have lost his expenditures of time, money, and skill. The devisees might have
lost the interest upon the investment, and, perhaps, a part of
the principal.
The devisees might have held the property, and denied
that, under the circumstances, the trust subsisted any longer.
If Price acquiesced, his rights would have been at an end.
Price might, also, have expressly oi- tacitly abandoned his
claim. This would have worked the same result. Both
parties might have concluded to continue their existing relations, and to wait for a more auspicious period for the disposition of the property. Their interests were the same.
What would benefit or injure one could not fail to have the
same effect upon the others. If the purchases werej udiciously
made, the course last suggested was obviously the wisest and
best for both parties. Was either of the alternatives adopted?
and if so, which one ?
This is the turning-point of the case.
The burden of the proof as to the two former rests upon
the appellants.
. Upon a careful examination of the record we have failed
to find the slightest proof of any disclaimer by the devisees, or
of any renunciation by Price. If such evidence exist we must
suppose it is contained in the correspondence bet~k'een the
parties They are annexed to the bill accounts, showing the

Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR

v.

FREER.

Opinion of the court.

receipts and disbursements of Price down to the time of his
death. The receipts, after the death of Seymour, commence
on the 24th December, 1841, and terminate on the 16th of
June, 1854. All the moneys were received from Messrs.
John F. and Horatio Seymour. It appears, by a stipulation
in the record, that the sums with which Price debited himself had all been verified by comparing them with the original
receipts in the possession of the counsel of the appellants.
The Messrs. Seymour lived in the State of New York, and
Price at Chicago. The moneys were all remitted by checks.
It is apparent, from the face of the accounts, that the receipt
of the money, in many instances, if not in all, must have
been acknowledged by letter. Hone of these letters have
been produced. Why not? The inference is a fair one, to
say the least, that they contain nothing, unfavorable to the
claim of the appellee. This negative feature of the case is
not undeserving of consideration. If Price, neither by expression nor acquiescence, did anything to impair his rights,
they must still subsist in full force.
We think there is proof in the record, that he and his
personal representative considered the time within which the
sales were to be made, prolonged until they could be made
profitably, and, that in all other respects, the contract remained as if it had originally contained this modification.
We can hardly conceive how the devisees, who advanced
the money to pay the taxes, and with whom Price must
have corresponded, could have understood his position differently. It is admitted that from the time of the purchases
down to the time of his death, Price had the care and
charge of the property, and paid the taxes upon it, the devisees furnishing the money. His accounts are long, and the
items numerous. There is no proof that he ever made any
charge, or claimed anything for his services. His accounts
are silent upon the subject. How can this be accounted for,
unless he expected to be compensated by his share of the
profits of the lands, to be realized when the proper time for
selling should arrive ?
Upon his death, High, his administrator, succeeded to the

SEYMOUR

v/..Fi-LEER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

agency. He was employed by the devisees, and performed
the same duties as his predecessor. He negotiated the sales
mentioied in the bill, and at once claimed a share of the
profits for Price's estate, according to the contract. The
claim was resisted by the devisees, and he thereupon instituted this suit.
The theory insisted upon by the appellees is consistent
with all the evidence in the case. It is in conflict with nothing which has been developed. It is alleged, in one of the
answers, that Price "never pretended to the defendants to
have any interest, .
but claimed that he ought to be allowed a reasonable compensation for his services as agent,
and not under the contract." When, where, and how was
the claim made? If by letter, why is not the letter produced ? The fact is important, but the allegation is wholly
unsupported by anything in the record.
The answers set up the bar of the statute of limitations.
Where there is no disclaimer the statute has no application
to an express trust, such as we have found to exist in this
case.
It is said there is a misjoinder of parties in the bill with
respect to the executors of Seymour. The doctrine of equitable conversion renders their presence in the case necessary,
if not indispensable. If the objection were well taken, the
bill as to them would be dismissed. The error would have
no other effect.
It is alleged, also, that there is a defect of non-joinder as
to the heirs-at-law of Price. The application of the same
doctrine is a sufficient answer to this objection.
Conceding that the appellee is entitled to have the contract specifically executed, the appellants insist that the
court below erred in decreeing that it should be done by a
receiver instead of themselves. There being a trust and a
lien a court of equity had unquestionable authority to apply
its flexible and comprehensive jurisdiction in such manner
as might be necessary to the right administration of justice
between the parties. The devisees are numerous. The

Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

death of any one of them might seriously retard and embarrass the execution of a decree shaped as the appellants
suggest. The appointment of the solicitor of the appellants
as receiver, and the stipulation, which appears in the record,
that he might sell at private sale, protects in the best manner the interests of all concerned.
The court below held that the contract made the parties
to it copartners, and the decree was framed accordingly.
But, as the provisions of the decree conform in all respects
to our views, this theoretical error constitutes no ground of
reversal. A wrong reason was given for what was properly
done.
The litigation appears to have been conducted in a spirit
of candor and fairness on both sides, which is eminently
creditable to the parties.
We find no error in the record, and the decree of the
Circuit Court is.

AFFIR ED.

Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the following dissenting
opinion.
Mr. Justice NELSON, Mr. Justice GRIER, and myself
dissent from the judgment of a majority of the court in this
case.
The decrees appealed from are founded upon the theory
that, by the agreement of May, 1835, Price and Seymour
became copartners, and that the property purchased was copartnership property. The interlocutory decree declares
that Price, bytvirtue of that agreement, "was entitled, as
an equal copartner in the property, to one equal .half of the
profits made, or to be made, from the sale of the lands;"
that the lands were purchased by Price as an "investm e ut
on joint account of himself and said Seymour," and that
the sales made, and to be made, were "to be deemed and
taken as made, and to be made, on joint account." And ii
the final decree the court administdrs the property on what
it declares to be "just partnership principles." It provides
for the payment out of the fund of all the costs and ex-

SEYMOUR

v.

FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

penses, and that "the balance which shall remain [of the
funds then on hand], being clear profits of the partnership
land purchase and sale up to the present time, be equally
divided." And it speaks of " closing and settling the partnership land accounts, so far as the sales and collections
have progressed."
And the case was presented to this court both in the oral
and printed arguments of counsel upon the question whether
a copartnership was created between Price and Seymour by
the agreement of 1835, or any interest vested in Price in
the lands purchased.
We shall consider at some length both parts of this question, and in disposing of them, we shall dispose, in our judgment, of the entire merits of the case.
We do not consider the agreement as creating any partnership between the parties, or as vesting in Price any interest, legal or equitable, in the lands purchased. It provides
simply for services to be rendered by Price for Seymour, and
a contingent compensation to be made to him tbr such services. It stipulates on the part of Price, that he shall devote
his time and best judgment to the selection and purchase of
land to an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars, in
certain designated States and Territories, or in such of them
as he may find most advantageous to the interest of Seymour; that the purchases shall be made during the then
existing year, and that the contracts of purchase shall be
made and the conveyances taken in the namne of Seymour;
and on the part of Seymour, that he shall furnish the five
thousand dollars, that the lands purchased shall be sold
within five .years afterwards, and that of the profits niade by
such purchase and sale, one-half shall be paid to Price, and
be in full for his services and expenses. And as if to prevent any possible misconstruction, the agreement closes with
a declaration that no payment for those services or expenses
shall be made except from such profits.
By the ex]ress terms of the agreement the ownership of
the property was to be in Seymour; the lands were to be
selected and purchased for his general interest, and the title

Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR v. FREER.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, Ji., dissenting.

was to be taken in his name. The special interest of Pride
was only in the profits as a means of compensation for his
services; and the interest was not in profits which might be
made at any time, upon any future sale, however remote, but
upon a sale within five years. He was to receive for his
compensation one-half that might be realized above cost,
interest, and taxes, from the rise of the property within that
period. If language is to be interpreted in its natural and
ordinary sense, the contract means that, and means nothing
more nur less. The purchases, it says, shall be made during
the present year. The sale shall be made within five years
from that time, and one-half the profits from such purchase
and sale, not from purchases or sales made at any other time,
shall be paid to Price, not as profits, but as compensation
for his services.
The provision for the sale in five years was not merely
directory and modal; which might be waived by Price
without affecting his rights. The subsequent clauses securing a compensation to him are limited to a sale within the
period designated. He was to have half of the profits arising
upon such sale; the moiety of the profits made upon such
sale was to be in full for his compensation, and he was not to
receive anything for services or expenses, except a participation in the profits made "as aforesaid."
To one who is familiar with the history of the growth of
the West, there is nothing singular or even unusual in a
contract of this kind. With the immense tide of immigration setting in that direction, lands of comparatively little
value one day sometimes in a few months become the sites
of villages and cities, and the source of affluence to their
possessors. It is not strange, therefore, that in 1835, a year
somewhat noted for its speculative tendencies, a gentleman
of capital should propose to one of energy and experience in
such matters, that he advance the money, and the latter
invest it in lands in, the States and Territories of the West,
"on or near the sites, or expected sites, of towns or places of
business," upon a consideration that the latter should receive
by way of comraensatiou one-half of the profits which might

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Nel.-on, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

be made from the rise of the property in value within a
designated period.
Nor is there anything in contracts of this character which
imposes the obligations or confers the rights of copartners
between the parties. There is no copartnership where the
relationship between the parties is that of master and servant,
or of employer and employee, though the compensation of
the latter may be in proportion to the profits, or be paid
entirely out of them. Under some circumstances parties
thus receiving a portion of the profits may be held, as respects third persons, subject to the liabilities of partners;
but as between themselves, and in the adjustment of their
respective rights, no such relation obtains. This has been
settled law for more than half a century. Thus, in lleskelh
v. Blanchard,* decided in 1803, the plaintiff had furnished
goods purchased by him on credit, to one Robinson, the
testator of the defendants, to take to Africa for purposes of
trade, upon an agr'eement that if any profit should arise from
the adventure, be should have one-half fbr his trouble. The
plaintiff having paid for the goods, brought an action for the
amount. It was objected in defence, that as the parties
were to divide the profits, if any, they must be equally liable
for any loss, and that, therefore, a partnership ,vas constituted
between them. But the objection was not sustained, and
Lord Ellenborough said that "Quoad third parties it [the
agreement] was a partnership, for the plaintiff was to share
half the profits; but as between themselves, it was only an
agreement for so much as a compensation for the plaintiff's
trouble, and for lending Robinson his credit."
In Hazard v. flazard,t this doctrine was applied to a case
where one of two parties agreed to devote his time to the
management of the concerns of factories belonging to the
other party, for one-fourth of the profits of the business lbr
the first year, and one-third of the profits for each year after
until the expiration of the agreement, which portion of the
p)ofits was to be the sole reward for his services. It was held
that there was no partnership between the parties. "A mere
* 4 East, 144.

t 1 Story, 371.

:Dec. 1I868.]

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

Opinlon of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

participation in the profits," said Mr. Justice Story, "will
not render the parties partners inter sese, whatever it may do
as to third persons, unless they so intend it. If A. agrees to
give B. one-third of the profits of a particular transaction or
business for his labor and services therein, that may make
both liable to third persons as partners, but not as between
themselves;" and he refers in support of the doctrine to the
case already cited of .esketh v. Blanchard.
Similar adjudicati~ns have been repeatedly made, we be..
lieve, in the highest courts of every State in the Union.
Some slight differences exist in them as to the extent in
which a participation in the profits of a business, by way of
compensation, will render a party liable as a partner to third
persons; but there is entire concurrence in the conclusion
that such participation alone does not create a partnership
between the parties.
In Denny v. Cabot and others,* the question presented to the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts was, whether the defendant
Cooper was a partner with Cabot, Appleton &Co. The agreement between them was substantially this: Cabot, Appleton
& Co. were to furnish (ooper stock to be manufactured into
cloth at his mill on their account, and Cooper was to nianufacture the cloth and deliver it to them, and was to receive from
them a stipulated sum per yard, and one-third part of the net
profits of the business. It was held that the parties were not
partners, either between themselves or as to third persons;
that the agreement only provided the manner in which the
compensation to Cooper for his services in manufacturing
the cloth was to be ascertained, and that he had no title to
any share of the cloth or any lien thereon.
In Loomis v. M7arshall,t a case, in some respects, similar to
that of Denny v. Cabot, was before the Supreme Court of
Connecticut, and the liability of a party who receives a portion of the profits of a business as compensation for his services was very elaborately and ably considered. The agreement in the case was substantially this: A. was to furnish
B., who occupied a factory, a supply of wool for two years,
* 6 MIetcalf, 83.

t 12 Connecticut, 69.

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

to be manufactured into cloths. B. agreed to manufacture
the cloths, and to devote the use of the factory to that purpose, and the net proceeds of the cloths, after deducting incidental expenses and charges of sale, were to be divided so
that A. should have fifty-five per cent. and B. forty-five per
cent. The cost of the warp used, and the expense of insurance on the wool or cloths, were to be borne by them in
the same ratio, and in case of destruction of wool or cloth
by fire, the amount received from the, insurance was to be
divided between them, according to the loss of each. It was
held that the agreement did not create a partnership between
the parties; that the case was properly referable to that class
of cases in which one party receives a share of the profits or
avails as a compensation for services rendered, labor performed, and expenses incurred in the business; and the court
observed,that if it should hold that the agreement constituted
a partnership, it would change the existing law as to factors,
brokers, agents, shipmasters, and seamen, who share in the
profits by way of compensation, or in lieu of wages, and
introduce great perplexity in the adjustment of their legal
rights and remedies.
Now, if a party does not become a partner with others in
business, general or special, as is above clearly established
by the authorities, from the fact that by way of compensation
he participates with them in the profits of the business, it
follows that he does not, by reason of such participation, acquire any interest, legal or equitable, in the property which
constitutes the basis of the business. It is only upon the
theory that the services rendered by one party are to be considered as an equivalent to the capital advanced by the other,
that a common interest of both in the property can be asserte(d.
This theory, not resting upon any solid foundation, the inference deduced therefrom, of course, fails. The sharing of
the profits not changing the relation of the party as agent to
the one who furnishes the capital, the ownership of the property acquired by such capital is not affected. The case of
Smith v. Watson* is conclusive upon this point. In that case,
2 Barnewall & Cresswell, 401.

Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

one Sampson (whose assignees in bankruptcy were the plaintiffs) employed one Gill, a broker, to purchase whalebone,
and, by agreement, was to pay him one-third of the profits
made on the sale of it for his trouble. The defendants were
bankers, with whom Sampson kept his account; and the suit
was brought to recover an amount in the defendant's hands,
which was the proceeds of a bill drawn by Sampson on account of a parcel of whalebone which he had sold. Gill
claiming to be a partner of Sampson, by means of the agreement, indemnified the bankers and received the money. It
was held that the plaintiffs, as assignees of Sampson, were
entitled to recover. Bayley, J., said:
"A right to share in the profits of a particular adventure may
have the effect of rendering a person liable to third persons as a
partner in respect of transactions arising out of the particular
adventure, in the profits of which he is to participate; but it
does not give him any interest in the property itself which was
the subject-matter of the adventure. Gill's right to claim property in the whalebone must arise out of the terms of the bargain
with Sampson; and looking to them, it appears clearly that it
was not joint property. It may be assumed that it was purchased
in the name of Sampson only, for Gill was a mere agent, and
was to have a proportion of the profits in lieu of brokerage.
Considering the question in this view, I am clearly of opinion
that Gill had no property in the whalebone, or in the proceeds
of the bill."
Holroyd, J., said:
"Assuming it to have been agreed between Sampson and Gill
that the latter should make purchases of whalebone, and in lieu
of brokerage, should have one-third of the profits arising out of
the sales, and that he should even bear a certain proportion of the
losses, I am of opinion that although such an agreement might
make Gill liable as a partner to third persons, yet that it did not
vest'in him any interest in the whalebone purchased with the
money of Sampson. Such an agreement would not convert that
which was obtained by the separate property of Sampson into
the joint property of Sampson and Gill. It may be 'collected
from the evidence, that the latter did not furnish any part of the
money required to pay for the whalebone, and that the contracts
VOL. VIII.

15

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

for sale were made not in his name, but in that of Sampson, for
Gill was to act as a broker only, and to receive a share of the
profits in lieu of his brokerage. The money paid for the whalebone being, therefore, Sampson's separate property, and the
contracts being made in his name as the purchaser, the property
in the thingpurchased would vest, by virtue of the contracts, in
him alone."
There is no difference in principle between this case and
the one under consideration. Price was employed to purchase land, and Gill was employed to purchase whalebone.
Price was to receive one-half of the profits made upon a sale
of the land for his services and expenses, and Gill was to
receive one-third of the profits on the sale of the whalebone
for his trouble. Gill was held not to be a partner with
Sampson who employed him, or to have any joint interest
with him in the whalebone; and upon the same principle it
should be held, in our judgment, that Price was not a partner
with Seymour, and did not possess any joint interest with
him, in the land purchased.
If the decision in the case of Smith v. Watson is sound law,
and it has not, that we are aware of, ever been questioned,
but, on the contrary, has been uniformly approved by the
highest courts of England and of the United States, it is impossible for the complainants to sustain the present suit.
The suit proceeds and the decree is rendered, as we have
here already stated, upon the theory that Price and Seymour
were copartners, and that the property purchased was copartnership property.
We have shown, as we think conclusively, that Price was
not a copartner with Seymour under the contract between
them, and that he did not possess any interest with him in
the lands purchased, but that the lands constituted the separate property of Seymour. Price was, it is true, interested
in the profits to be made in the sale of the land, according
to the terms of the agreement. It was not, however, the interest of a partner, but the interest which every party to an
executory contract has in having the stipulations in his favor

:Dec. 1868.]

SEYmOUR V. FREER.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

performed by the other party. A personal action against
the delinquent party, or his personal representatives, is the
remedy for the breach of an agreement of this character.
Resort can be had to equity only when special circumstances
intervene to render the action at law unavailable. Undoubtedly Price could have maintained an action at law
against the representatives of Seymour had a sale of the
property been refused within the five years specified in the
agreement, and recovered, as damages, a sum equal to onehalf the. difference between the value of the property and
the amount of its cost, interest thereon, and expenses. That
he did not institute any such action, or make any claim upon
them, is explained by the admission accompanying the
record, that the property was at that time unsalable, and
that it was uncertain whether, if a sale could have been made,
it would have brought eiough to repay the original investment and interest. The subsequent conduct of Price shows
very clearly that he regarded his right to compensation dependent upon the possibility of effecting a sale at a profit at
that time. He lived until July, 1854, more than fourteen
years after the expiration of the five years, and he never
asserted any claim under the contract. He never requested
that the lands be sold, or asserted any interest in thei or
their proceeds. He uniformly treated the contract as at an
end, and the heirs of Seymour as the exclusive owners of the
land and its proceeds. He subsequently acted as agent for
them in paying taxes upon the property. He lived near the
property, and it was natural that he should be employed for
that purpose. But if funds, even of trifling amounts, were
not forwarded to him, he did not advance the money, but
allowed the property to be sold. It is difficult to reconcile
this conduct with, the theory that he considered himself at
the time as having a claim either upon the land or its proceeds. And it is still more difficult to account for his entire
silence to all the world, to his own relatives and agents, as
well as to the heirs of Seymour, respecting any claim upon
the property or its proceeds, if he considered that in fact he
possessed any. It remained for the -administrator of his

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

estate, nearly three years after his death, to discover that he
possessed, during his life, unknown to himself, large and
valuable interests in property which he had purchased for
others, and in their name, twenty-two years before. The
claim now asserted is contrary to the express terms of the
contract, and the construction given to it by Price himself.
And even the administrator acted as agent for the heirs in
paying taxes upon the property and in negotiating sales for
them until he made the discovery of the supposed rights of
his intestate.
It is urged as an objection to the case made by the defendants that they did not produce the letters of Price to
them. It is assumed without any intimation to that effect
on the part of the complainant, that these letters might have
contained, and not being produced, must be presumed to have
contained something against the interests of the defendants.
The objection may be answered by the suggestion that the
complainant did not produce the letters of the heirs of Seymour to Price. If they bad contained any recognition of
the claim now asserted on behalf of Price's estate, there can
be no doubt that they would have been brought forth. If it
be proper to invoke presumptions in respect to the contents
of papers not produced, even when not called for, the presumption against the claim of the complainant must be

regarded as very great.

It is highly improbable that no

allusion would be made by the heirs of Seymour to the
interest of Price in the property, or to his claiming an interest, during a correspondence of fourteen years, if, in truth,

he possessed or claimed any.
The case of Stow v. Robinson,* decided by the Supreme
Court of Illinois, presents similar features to the one under
consideration, and is authority upon the point, that the
remedy of Price, if a sale within the five years had been refused, was at law, for breach of the contract, and not in

equity.

The case was this: Robinson was the owner of a

block of land in or near Chicago, and it was agreed between
* 24 Illinois, 532.

Dec. 1868.]

SEYMOUR v.

FREER.

Opinion of Field, Nelson, and Grier, JJ., dissenting.

him and one Rathway that the block should be subdivided,
and that Rathway should dispose of the lots for one-fourth
cash, the remainder to be secured by notes payable in one,
two, and three years, with interest, Robinson to give bonds
for deeds on receiving the notes, and to execute conveyances
when the notes were paid. Out of the proceeds obtained
Robinson was to receive the purchase-money of the block,
with interest, and the balance was to be equally divided between the parties; and for his share upon this division Rathway was to plat, survey, or subdivide the block, and advertise
and sell the same at his own expense. Rathway, under the
agreement, subdivided the block into lots, and sold a portion
of them, when Robinson stopped the sale, and refused to
allow any further sale, or to execute any more title-papers.
Rathway having died, his heirs and personal representatives
filed their bill to compel a performance of the agreement.
The court held that by the agreement Rathway did not acquire any vested interest in the land itself, and if he was
prevented from executing his part of the agreement, he had
his remedy by an action at law for damages, and that his
remedy was clearly not in equity.
The difference between this case and the one under collsideration is circumstantial; the principle is the same in
both. The services rendered in each were the meritorious
cause for the compensation to be made by the owner of the
land. In the case cited it was the platting, surveying, subdividing, advertising, and selling the land; in the case at bar
it was the selection and purchase of the land. The difference
in the services is not material. The contract stipulating for
the services in the case cited created in Rathway no interest
in the land held by Robinson; and for the same reason the
contract in the case at bar, in our judgment, created in Price
no interest in the land held by Seymour. If Price possessed
no such interest, there can be no pretence that the land was
subject to any trust for his benefit.
In our judgment the decree below should be reversed and
the bill dismissed.

