DECISIONS
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1868.

THORINGTON V. SMITH.
1. A contract for the payment of Confederate States treasury notes, made
between parties residing within the so-called Confederate States, can be
enforced in the courts of the United States, the contract having been
made on a sale of property in the usual course of business, and not for
the purpose of giving currency to the notes or otherwise aiding the
rebellion.
2. Evidence may be received that a contract payable in those States, during
tke rebellion, in "dollars," was in fact made for the payment in Confederate dollars.
3. The party entitled to be paid in these Confederate dollars can only receive
their actual value at the time and place of the contract, in lawful money
of the United States.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Middle District of
Alabama, the case being this:
In November, 1864, Thorington being the owner of a piece
of land adjoining the city of Montgomery, Alabama, sold it
to Smith and Hartley, all parties being then resident of
Montgomery. At the time of this sale the late rebellion
was still in active operation and had been so for more than
three years. Alabama, or this part of it, was at the time in
the occupation of the military and civil authorities of the
rebel States, and the Federal government exercised no authority there. There was no gold or silver coin in use, nor
any notes of the United States, such as made the circulation

VOL. viir.

1

( 1)

2

THORINGTON V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the loyal portion of the country. The only currency in
any ordinary use, or in which current daily business could
be at all carried on, were treasury notes of the Confederate
States, notes in form and gener'al aspect like bank bills, and
by which the Confederate States of America promised to
pay the bearer the sum named in them, "two years after the
ratification of a treaty of peace between the Confederate
States and the United States of America."
"The whole State of Alabama," said the testimony in
the case, "was in a revolutionary condition, politically and
financially. The value of all kinds and species of property
was changing from week to week, and from day to day, and
there was no standard of value for property. A large advance frequently took .place in the price of property of
different kinds within a day or two, say one hundred to two
hundred per cent. Speculation pervaded the whole community, and individuals asked whatever they thought proper
for any and everything they had to sell. There was no
standard value or regular price for real estate at the time
mentioned. Prices changed with the fortunes of war. As
the prospects grew dark the prices advanced. While, however, the Confederate States treasury notes were the general
and really the only currency used in the common transactions
of business, there were occasional instances where sales of
property were made on the basis of gold and of notes of the
United States."
The Confederate notes, though in fact imposed upon the
people of the Confederate States, by its government, were
never declared by it to be a legal tender.
The price agreed to be paid by Smith and Hartley, for
the land which they purchased was $45,000. Of this sum
$35,000 were paid at the execution of the deed it Confederate States treasury notes; and fbr the residue a note was
executed thus:
MONTGOiMERY, November 28th, 1864.

$10,000.

One day after date, we, or either of us, promise to pay Jack
Thorington, or bearer, ten thousand dollars, for value received

Dec. 1868.]

THORINGTON V. SMITH.
Statement of the case.

in real estate, sold and delivered by said Thorington to us this
day, as per his deed to us of this date: this note, part of the
same transaction, is hereby declared as a lien or mortgage on
said real estate situate and adjoining the city of Montgomery.
W. D. SMITH.
5. H. HARTLEY.

The rebellion being suppressed in 1865, the Confederate
States treasury notes became, of course, worthless, and
Thorington, in 1867, filed a bill in the court below againt
his purchasers, who were still in possession, for the enforcement of the vendor's lien, claiming the $10,000 in the only
money now current, to wit, lawful money of the United
States.
The answer set up, by way of defence, that the negotiation
for the purchase of the land took place, and that the note in
controversy was made, at Montgomery, in the State of
Alabama, where all the parties resided, in November, 1864,
at which time the authority of the United States was excluded from that portion of the State, and the only currency
in use consisted of Confederate treasury notes, issued and
put in circulation by the persons exercising the ruling power
of the States in rebellion, known as the Confederate government.
It was also insisted that the land purchased was worth no
more than $3000 in lawful money; that the contract price
was $45,000; that this price, by the agreement of the parties, was to be paid in Confederate iotes; that $35,000 were
actually paid in those notes; and that the note given for the
remaining $10,000 was to be discharged in the same manner;
and it was asserted on this state of facts, that the vendor was
entitled to no relief in a court of the United States.
On the hearing below, a witness, who negotiated the sale
of the land, was offered to show that it was agreed and understood that the note should be paid in Confederate States
treasury notes, as the $35,000 had been. This witness described the note, however, as one payable at thirty days.
The court below, admitting the evidence to prove that the

THORINGTON V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

note was in fact made for payment in Confederate States
treasury notes, and sustaining, apparently, the view of the
purchasers that the contract was illegal because to be paid
in such notes, dismissed the bill.
The questions before this court upon the appeal, were
these:
1. Can a contract for the payment of Confederate notes,
made during the late rebellion, between parties residing
within the so-called Confederate States, be enforced at all in
the courts of the United States?
2. Can evidence be received to prove that a promise expressed to be for the payment of dollars was, in fact, made
for the payment of any other than lawful dollars of the
United States ?
3. Did the evidence establish the fact that the note for ten
thousand dollars was to be paid, by agreement of the parties,
in Confederate notes ?
A point as to the measure of damages was also raised at
the bar.
The case was twice argued.
Mr. P. Phillips,for the appellant (a brief of 31r. Chillon being

filed) :
1. There is no reason to suppose that the contract was
entered into for the purpose of giving currency to the ConAnd the
federate notes, and thus aiding the rebellion.
illegal,
notes
was
of
these
the
issuing
question is not whether
but whether an agreement to receive them in payment of
property, made the contract between the parties illegal. If
there was no illegal design, the contract was not immoral.*
The contract, therefore, was legal.
The only question is, what must we hold it to mean.
The note now here on its fhce is clear and distinct. The
promise to pay "ten thousand dollars" has a well-understood, well-defined meaning. Whether made in Massachusetts or Alabama the rules applicable to its construction are
* Orchard v. Hughes, 1 WVallace, 75.

Dec. 1868.]

THORINGTON V. SMITH.
Argument for the appellant.

the same. The issue presented by the answer is, that this
contract did not represent the truth; that, in point of fact,
the agreement was for a payment in an illegal currency of a
mere nominal value. It is difficult to conceive of a more
palpable contradiction of the legal effect of a contract than
the admission of evidence to sustain this defence.
The cases are numerous where the struggle has been made
to introduce parol evidence to explain the meaning of words,
regarded by the court of doubtful import: such as "current
funds," "current bank notes," "currency." But where, as
in this case, a party has promised to pay so many "dollars," no authority will sanction evidence of an agreement
that dollars meant not what the law says it meant, but something very different, to wit, Confederate treasury notes. All
the authorities are the other way.*
2. This question, as applicable to the condition of things
set up in the answer, was considered in Roane v. Green,t the
court holding that it was not competent to prove by parol,
on such a note, that Confederate treasury notes was the payment agreed on. In fact, as these notes were never made
a legal tender by the rebel government nothing but coin
would, even under it, be a discharge of the debt.
Indeed in all these cases of alleged contemporaneous
agreements, it may be asked why the verbal condition, if
bargained for, was not put in writing also ? If the rest of
the agreement was sufficiently important to authorize written evidence of its execution, why except the remainder?
The obvious inference must be, that all that the parties did
in fact agree to was put in due written form, and that all collaterals and appendages, concerning which there was mere
conversation, was precisely what they could not agree upon.
This, of course, is not always the true inference, but it is of
necessity the legal inference.

3. The parol evidence offered, if competent, is insufficient.
* Baugh v. Ramsey, 4 Monroe, 155; Pack v. Thomas, 13 Smeedes & Marshall, 11; Williams v. Beazley, 3 J. J. Marshall, 577; Morris v. Edwards,
1 Ohio, 189.
- 24 Arkansas, 212.

6

THORINGTON v. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

There was but one witness, and he misdescribes the note in
one feature of it, the time namely that it had to run : a most
important feature in view of the changes in values at the
time when the note was given.
4. Another point not raised below, perhaps, but to which,
if the court should think that the contract can be enforced,
but not payment demanded in our now recognized currency,
we would direct attention, is this. Confederate money is
now wholly worthless. Payment in it is no payment at
all. What, then, is the measure of damages? The peculiar circumstances of this case perhaps take it out of the
rule announced in Thompson v. Biggs,* that the value of the
money at the time the note was payable is the criterion. The
value of gold as marked by these treasury notes, fluctuated
daily and hourly, and was different in different parts of the
State. 'While it was 20, 30, or 40 to 1, these treasury
notes had an exchangeable power of 2, 3, or 4 to I in the
different species of property. It may well be that the vendor
should have agreed that if the note was paid at maturity, it
might be extinguished in these notes; but it by no means
follows that in default of payment he was willing to be compensated by the value of these notes in gold.
If, therefore, the date of the maturity of the note is
adopted for the purpose of ascertaining the damage, the
measure should be, not the value as compared to gold, but
rather its relative value in property.

No opposing counsel on either argument.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions before us upon this appeal are these:
(1.) Can a contract for the payment of Confederate notes,
made during the late rebellion, between parties residing
within the so-called Confederate States, be enforced at all
in the courts of the United States?
(2.) Can evidence be received to prove that a promise expressed to be for the payment of dollars was, in fact, made
* 5 Wallace, 663.

Dec. 1868.]

THORINGTON V.

SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

for the payment of any other than lawful dollars of the
United States?
(3.) Does the evidence in the record establish the fact that
the note for ten thousand dollars was to be paid, by agreement of the parties, in Confederate notes?
The first question is by no means free from difficulty. It
cannot be questioned that the Confederate notes were issued
in furtherance of an unlawful attempt to overthrow the
government of the United States, by insurrectionary force.
Nor is it a doubtful principle of law that no contracts made
in aid of such an attempt can be enforced through the courts
of the country whose government is thus assailed. But,
was the contract of the parties to this suit a contract of that
character? Can it be fairly described as a contract in aid
of the rebellion?
In examining this question the state of that part of the country in which it was made must be considered. It is familiar
history, that early in 1861 the authorities of seven States, supported, as was alleged, by popular majorities, combined for
the overthrow of the National Union, and for the establishment, within its boundaries, of a separate and independent
confederation. A governmental organization, representing
these States, was established at Montgomery in Alabama,
first under a provisional constitution, and afterwards under
a constitution intended to be permanent. In the course of
a few months, four other States acceded to this confederation,
and the seat of the centralauthority was transferred to Richmond, in Virginia. It was, by the central authority thus organized, and under its direction, that civil war was carried
on upon a vast scale against the government of the United
States for more than four years. Its power was recognized
as supreme in nearly the whole of the territory of the States
confederated in insurrection. It was the actual government
of all the insurgent States, except those portions of them
protected from its control, by the presence of the armed
forces of the National government.
What -was the precise character of this government in contemplation of law?

THORINGTON V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is difficult to define it with exactness. Any definition
that may be given may not improbably be found to require
limitation and qualification. But the general principles of
law relating to de facto government will, we think, conduct
us to a conclusion sufficiently accurate.
There are several degrees of what is called de facto government.
Such a government, in its highest degree, assumes a character very closely resembling that of a lawful government.
This is when the usurping government expels the regular
authorities from their custoniiary seats and functions, and
establishes itself in their place, and so becomes the actual
government of a country. The distinguishing characteristic
of such a government is, that adherents to it in war against
the government dejure do not incur the penalties of treason
and under certain limitations, obligations assumed by it in
behalf of the country, or otherwise, will, in general, be respected by the government dejure when restored.
Examples of this description of government de facto are
found in English history. The statute 11 Henry VII, c.
1,* relieves from penalties for treason all persons who, in
defence of the king, for the time being, wage war against
those who endeavor to subvert his authority by force of
arms, though warranted in so doing by the lawful monarch.t
But this is where the usurper obtains actual possession of
the royal authority of the kingdom: not when he has succeeded only in establishing his power over particular localities. Being in possession, allegiance is due to him as king
defacto.
Another example may be found in the government of
England under the Commonwealth, first by Parliament,
and afterwards by Cromwell as Protector. It was not, in
the contemplation of law, a government de jure, but it was
a government de facto in the most absolute sense. It incurred obligations and made conquests which remained the
obligations and conquests of England after the restoration.
* 2 British Stat. at Large, 82.

t 4 Commentaries, 77.

Dec. 1868.]

THORINGTON V.

SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

The better opinion doubtless is, that acts done in obedience
to this government could not be justly regarded as treasonable, though in hostility to the king dejure. Such acts were
protected from criminal prosecution by the spirit, if not by
the letter, of the statute of Henry the Seventh. It was held
otherwise by the judges by whom Sir Henry Vane was tried
for treason,* in the year following the restoration. But such
a judgment, in such a time, has little authority.
It is very certain that the Confederate government was
never acknowledged by the United States as a de facto government in this sense. Nor was it acknowledged as such
by other powers. No treaty was made by it with any civilized state. No obligations of a National character were
created by it, binding after its dissolution, on the States
which it represented, or on the National government. From
a very early period of the civil war to its close, it was regarded as simply the military representative of the insurrection against the authority of the United States.
But there is another description of government, called
also by publicists a government de facto, but which might,
perhaps, be more aptly denominated a government of paramount force. Its distinguishing characteristics are (1),
that its existence is maintained by active military power,
within the territories, and against the rightful authority of
an established and lawful government; and (2), that while
it exists, it must necessarily be obeyed in civil matters by
private citizens who, by acts of obedience, rendered in submission to such force, do not become responsible, as wrongdoers, for those acts, though not warranted by the laws of
the rightful government. Actual governments of this sort
are established over districts diflring greatly in extent and
conditions. They are usually administered directly by military authority, but they may be administered, also, by civil
authority, supported more or less directly by military force.
One example of this sort of government is found in the case
of Castine, in Maine, reduced to British possession during
* 6 State Trials, 119.

10

THORINGTON V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the war of 1812. From the 1st of September, 1814, to the
ratification of the treaty of peace in 1815, according to the
judgment of this court in Undcd States v. BRiee,* "the British
government exercised all civil and military authority over
the place." "The authority of the United States over the
territory was suspended, and the laws of the United States
could no longer be rightfully enforced there, or be obligatory upon the inhabitants who remained and submitted to
the conqueror. By the surrender, the inhabitants passed
under a temporary allegiance to the British government,
and were bound by such laws, and such only, as it chose to
recognize and impose." It is not to be inferred from this
that the obligations of the people of Castine as citizens of
the United States were abrogated. They were suspended
merely by the presence, and only during the presence, of
the paramount force. A like example is found in the case
of Tampico, occupied during the war with Mexico by the
troops of the United States. It was determined by this
court, in .Fleming v. Page,t that, although Tampico did not
become a port of the United States in consequence of that
occupation, still, having come, together with the whole State
of Tamaulipas, of which it was part, into the exclusive possession of the Xational forces, it must be regarded and respected by other nations as the territory of the United States.
These were cases of temporary possession of territory by
lawful and regular governments at war with the country of
which the territory so possessed was part.
The central government established for the insurgent
States diffiered from the temporary governments at Castine
and Tampico in the circumstance, that its authority did not
originate in lawful acts of regular war, but it was not, on
that account, less actual or less supreme. And we think
that it must be classed among the governments of which
these are examples. It is to be observed that the rights and
obligations of a belligerent were conceded to it, in its military character, very soon after the war began, from motives
* 4 Wheaton, 253.

t 9 Howard, 614.

Dec. 1868.]

THORINGTON V.

SMITI.

Opinion of the court.

of humanity and expediency by the United States. The
whole territory controlled by it was thereafter held to be
enemies' territory, and the inhabitants of that territory were
held, in most respects, for enemies. To the extent, then,
of actual supremacy, however unlawfully gained, in all matters of government within its military lines, the power of
That
the insurgent government cannot be questioned.
supremacy did not justify acts of hostility to the United
States. How far it should excuse them must be left to the
lawful government upon the re-establishment of its authority.
But it made obedience to its authority, in civil and local
matters, not only a necessity but a duty. Without such
obedience, civil order was impossible.
It was by this government exercising its power throughout an immense territory, that the Confederate notes were
issued early in the war, and these notes in a short time became almost exclusively the currency of the insurgent States.
As contracts in themselves, except in the contingency of successful revolution, these notes were nullities; for, except in
that event, there could be no payer. They bore, indeed, this
character upon their face, for they were mad6 payable only
"after the ratification of a treaty of peace between the Confederate States and the United States of America." While
the war lasted, however, they had a certain contingent value,
and were used as money in nearly all the business transactions of many millions of people. They must be regarded,
therefoie, as a currency, imposed on the community by irresistible force.
It seems to follow as a necessary consequence from this
actual supremacy of the insurgent government, as a belligerent, within the territory where it circulated, and from the
necessity of civil obedience on the part of all who remained
in it, that this Currency must be considered in courts of law
in the same light as if it had been issued by a foreign government, temporarily occupying a part of the territory of the
United States. Contracts stipulating for payments in this
currency, cannot be regarded for that reason only, as made
in aid of the foreign invasion in the one case, or of the

THORINGTON V.

SMITH.

LSup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

domestic insurrection in the other. They have no necessary
relations to the hostile government, whether invading or
insurgent. They are transactions in the ordinary course
of civil society, and, though they may indirectly and remotely promote the ends of the unlawful government, are
without blame, except when proved to have been entered
into with actual intent to further invasion or insurrection.
We cannot doubt that such contracts should be enforced in
the courts of the United States, after the restoration of peace,
to the extent of their just obligation. The first question,
therefore, must receive an affirmative answer.
The second question, Whether evidence can be received
to prove that a promise, made in one of the insurgent States,
and expressed to be for the payment of dollars, without
qualifying words, was in fact made for the payment of any
other than lawful dollars of the United States ? is next to be
considered.
It is quite clear that a contract to pay dollars, made between citizens of any State of the Union, while maintaining
its constitutional relations with the National government, is
a contract to pay lawful money of the United States, and
cannot be modified or explained by parol evidence. But it
is equally clear, if in any other country, coins or notes
denominated dollars should be authorized of different value
from the coins or notes which are current here under that
name, that, in a suit upon a contract to pay dollars, made
in that country, evidence would be admitted to prove what
kind of dollars were intended, and, if it should turn out that
foreign dollars were meant, to prove their equivalent value
in lawful money of the United States. Such evidence does
not modify or alter the contract. It simply explains an
ambiguity, which, under the general rules of evidence, may
be removed by parol evidence.
We have already seen that the people of the insurgent
States, under the Confederate government were, in legal
contemplation, substantially in the same condition as inhabitants of districts of a country occupied and controlled by an

e

'Dec. 1868.]

TnORINGTON V. SMITHr.
Opinion of the court.

invading belligerent. The rules which would apply in the
former case would apply in the latter.; and, as in the former
case, the people must be regarded as subjects of a foreign
power, and contracts among them be interpreted and enforced
with reference to the conditions imposed by the conqueror,
so in the latter case, the inhabitants must be regarded as
under the authority of the insurgent belligerent power
actually established as the government of the country, and
contracts made with them must be interpreted and enforced
with reference to the condition of things created by the acts
of the governing power.
It is said, indeed, that under the insurgent government
the word dollar had the same meaning as under the government of the United States; that the Confederate notes were
never made a legal tender, and, therefore, that no evidence
can, be received to show any other meaning of the word
when used in a contract. But, it must be'remembered
that the whole condition of things in the insurgent States
was matter of fact rather than matter of law, and, as
matter of fact, these notes, payable at a future and contingent day, which has not arrived and can never arrive, were
forced into circulation as dollars, if not directly by the legislation, yet indirectly and quite as effectually by the acts of
the insurgent government. Considered in themselves, and
in the light of subsequent events, these notes had no real
value, but they were made current as dollars by irresistible
force. They were the only measure of value which the
people had, and their use was a matter of almost absolute
necessity. And this use gave them a sort of value, insignificant and precarious enough it is true, but always having a sufficiently definite relation to gold and silver, the universal measures of value, so that it was always easy to ascertain how much gold and silver was the real equivalent of
a sum expressed in this currency. In the light of these
facts it seems hardly less than absurd to say that these dollars must be regarded as identical in kind and value with
the dollars which constitute the money of the United States.
We cannot shut our eyes to the fact that they were essen-

14

DEAN V. YOUNELL'S ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
tially different in both respects; and it seems to us that no
rule of evidence properly understood requires us to refuse,
under the circumstances, to admit proof of the sense in
which the word dollar is used in the contract before us. Our
answer to the second question is, therefore, also in the
affirmative. We are clearly of opinion that such evidence
must be received in respect to such contracts, in order that
justice may be done between the parties, and that the party
entitled to be paid in these Confederate dollars can recover
their actual value at the time and place of the contract, in
lawful money of the United States.
We do not think it necessary to go into a detailed examination of the evidence in the record in order to vindicate
our answer to the third question. It is enough to say that
it has left no doubt in our minds that the note for ten thousand dollars, to enforce payment of which suit was brought
in the Circuit Court, was to be paid, by agreement of the
parties, in Confederate notes.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court must be
and the cause remanded, for further hearing and
decree, in conformity with this opinion.
RBEVE1S D,

NOTE.
At the same time with the foregoing case was decided
another, as to its chief point, like it; an appeal from the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Georgia. It was
the case of
DEAN V. "OUNELL'S

ADMINISTRATOR.

A bill had been filed below to set aside a deed of land for
fraud and inadequate consideration. The allegations of fraud
were founded wholly upon the circumstance, that the land was
sold for Confederate notes. The bill set up also a lien in favor
of the vendor of the complainant. The vendor, whose lien was
set up, was not made a party, nor was there any allegation of
notice to the grantor of the complainant of the alleged lien for
purchase-money; nor was there any averment that the complainant was induced to take the Confederate notes by fraudu-

