Dec. 1867.]

WHITE V.

CANNON.

Statement of the case.

WHITE V. CANTON.
1. A patent of the United States relinquishing to the patentee their right
to certain land, but providing that it shall in no manner affect the
rights of third persons, nor preclude a judicial decision between private
claimants for the same land-this reservation being inserted in accordance with a statute which authorized the patent to issue,-allows a
judicial inquiry into the merits of opposing claims to the land.
2. The ordinance of secession passed by the State of Louisiana, on the 26th
of January, 1861, was a nullity, and did not affect the previous jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of that State, or its relation to the appellate
power of the Supreme Court of the United States.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
Cannon, holding an imperfect claim to a tract of land in

that part of Louisiana which, in times when the sovereignty
of the region was disputed between Spain and the United
States, was called the "iNeutral Territory," brought a petitory suit, under the civil law of Louisiana, against White,
the possessor of a legal title under a patent of the United
States.
The facts were these: By statutes of 1823 and 1824,*
Congress provided for the examination of titles to lands in
the district where this one lay. Persons having claims to
lands situated in that district were authorized to present the
evidence of their claims to the register and receiver of the
local land office.
These officers were iequired to receive and record the evidence and to transmit to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
then had charge of the land department of the government,
a complete record of all the claims thus presented, with the
evidence appertaining to each claim, and an abstract of the
whole number of claims, dividing them into four classes; the
third class consisting of claims founded upon habitation, occupation or cultivationprevious to the 22d of February,1819. The
act of 1823 provided that nothing contained in it should be
considered as a pledge by the United States to confirm any
Qlaimn reported by the register and receiver.
3 Stat. at Large, 756; 4 Id. 65.

444

WHITE V. CANNON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

'Under these acts, one Dyson, as assignee of Edward McLaughlin, presented to the register and receiver of the land
office a claim, by virtue of habitation, occupation, and cultivation, to a tract of land lying within the so-called "neutral
territory," containing 640 acres, and proved by the testimony
of two witnesses the habitation and cultivation of the tract
by McLaughlin previous to February 22d, 1819. In their
report to the Secretary of the Treasury, made on the 1st
of November, 1824, the register and receiver recommended
that this claim, together with many other claims, which were
included in the third class, should be confirmed; and by the
act of Congress of the 24th of March, 1828,* the claims thus
recommended were confirmed, excepting a certain number,
among which were the claims of Dyson, including the one
above mentioned. These excepted claims, said the act,
"are suspended until it is ascertained whether they are situated within the limits of the lands claimed by the Caddoe
Indians." It was subsequently ascertained that the claim
was not situated within the limits of the lands claimed by
these Indians.t
Dyson, and parties claiming under him, were in continued
and undisturbed possession of the premises for many years.
The petitioner derived whatever estate he had, through various mesne conveyances from him.
The title of the defendant arose in this wise: In February,
1835, Congress passed "an act for the final adjustment of
claims to lands in the State of Louisiafla,"t which authorized
any persons having claims to land in that State, that had
been recognized by previous laws as valid, but which had
not been confirmed, to present them to the register and receiver of the local land office, within two years from the passage of the act, together with testimony in support of the
same, and required those officers to, record in a book kept
for that purpose the notice of every claim thus preferred,
* 6 Stat. at Large, 382.
t Treaty between the United States and the Caddoe nation, dated July lst,
1835, and promulgated February 2d, 1886; 7 Id. 470.
4 Id 749

Dec. 1867.]

WHITE V.

CANNON.

Statement of the case.

together with the evidence in its support. It also authorized
them to receive evidence for other individuals who might
resist the confirmation of a claim on their own behalf or that
of the United States. And it provided that those officers
should, at or before the commencement of each session of
Congress, make a report to the Secretary of the Treasury
of the claims presented before them, together with the testi.
mony, accompanied by their opinion of the validity of each
claim, and that the report should be laid before Congress by
the Secretary, together with the opinion of the commissioner
of the general land office touching the validity of the respective claims. Under this act, John McLaughlih, son of Edward McLaughlin, presented to the register and receiver a
claim for the same tract of 640 acres which had been claimed
by his father, and produced the testimony of two witnesses
by which he proved the habitation and cultivation of the
land by him previous to the 22d of February, 1819. The
testimony produced appeared to have been taken in 1834,
for some reason not disclosed by the record, perhaps, as suggested by counsel, in anticipation of the passage of the act
or some act of a similar kind. In 1840, the register and receiver reported this claim and recommended its confirmation.
The report was laid before Congress, and the claim was confirmed by the seventh section of the at of July 6th, 1842.*
The act provided, however, that the confirmation should
operate only as a relinquishment of the right of the United
States, and should not affect the rights of third parties nor
preclude a judicial decision between private claimants for
the same land.
In September, 1844, a patent was issued to John McLaughlin pursuant to this act of confirmation, but with the same
reservation as contained in the act itself. In June, 1848, he
transferred his interest to the defendant, who, two years before he purchased, knew that persons holding under Dysonthe presentation of whose claim as assignee of Edward
McLaughlin was well known in the vicinity of the landwere in possession of it.
* 5 Stat. at Large, 491.

WHITE V.

CANNON.

[sup. Ct:.

Statement of the case.

The petitioner prayed a judgment decreeing that be was
the rightful and legal owner of the land, and that he recover
the same with damages and mesne profits specified.
It was shown conclusively that John McLaughlin never
occupied or cultivated the land claimed by him previous
to February 22d, 1819, or at any other time, and that the
testimony presented by him to the receiver and register was
false. In May, 1843, before the patent issued, he made an
affidavit, and placed it on record in the land office of the district, that he never had at any time previous to the 22d of
February, 1819, resided upon the tract, but that it was within
his knowledge that his father, Edward McLaughlin, had
resided ueon it and cultivated it on that day and for several
years previous, and that his father had transferred his claim
by sale to Leonard Dyson, who, as his assignee, made entry
of the same. The residence upon and cultivation of the land
claimed by the father was also abundantly established by
other testimony.
The Distiict Court of Louisiana gave judgment for the
defendant. On appeal, the Supreme Court of that State reversed the judgment and decreed that the plaintiff be recognized as owner, and have possession, and have judgment for
$3833.3.%, and that the defendant pay at the rate of $3 per
acre on 480 acres from April 30th, 1859, and that the plaintiff elect, within thirty days after the ju-dgment should become
final, whether he would keep the improvements erected on
the land on paying for the same $5250 to the defendant,
and on his so electing or making default, execution to issue
on this part of the judgment against the plaintiff; but on
his refusal to retain the said improvements, the defendant
to be permitted to remove the same within a reasonable
time.
This judgment was rendered on the 31st of January, 1861.
A convention of the State of Louisiana had passed an ordinance of secession, purporting to take the State from the
Federal Union, on the 26th day of the same month.
This case was now here under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act.

Dec. 1867.]

WHITE V.

CANNON.

Opinion of the court.

11qghes, -Denver, and Peck, for plaintiffs in error, contended
that, upon the facts of the case, namely, that a patent had
been issued to the plaintiff in error, White, and that the claim
under which the defendant in error holds had never been
confirmed by Congress, the judgment of the court below
ought to have been in favor of the plaintiff in error. And
they suggested fbr the consideration of this court, that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, rendered
after the passage of the ordinance of secession, was void.
lr. Louis Janin, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court as follows:

Aside from the affidavit of John McLaughlin, which appears to have been made as if he were troubled with a
consciousness of his guilt, the evidence establishes beyond
question that he never cultivated any portion of the land
claimed by him, and, as stated by the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana in its opinion, never lived upon it otherwise than under the roof of his father; that Edward McLaughlin, his father, resided upon the laud and cultivated it
prior to February 22d, 1819, and had no neighbors within
the distance of several miles; and that the register and receiver were grossly imposed upon by false and fraudulent
testimony.
The defendant purchased with ample means of knowledge,
and, we are of opinion, with full knowledge of all the cir-

cumstances; of the father's residence and cultivation, and
of the son's false and fraudulent representations to secure
the land to himself. He knew, two years before he purchased, that occupants of the land held as lessees under the
vendor of the plaintiff. The presentation of a claim to the
land by Dyson, as assignee of Edward McLaughlin, was a
matter of general notoriety in the neighborhood. And the
affidavit of John McLaughlin was on record in the land
office of the district, where the defendant oltained his knowledge respecting the claim before makifig his purchase, and

WHITE V.

CANNON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

where he was informed, according to his own statement as
given by one of the witnesses, "that the claim being fraudulent made no difference, as the government had given a
patent," and consequently if he "lost the land the government -would be bound to remunerate him, which would be
better for him than the land."
The case is therefore disembarrassed from all questions
of the rights of third parties as purchasers of the legal title
without notice of alleged outstanding equities. The act of.
July 6th, 1842, confirming the claim of John McLaughlin,
provides that the confirmation "shall only operate as a relinquishment of the right of the United States, and shall not
affect the rights of third parties, nor preclude a judicial decision between private claimants for the same land."
The patent which followed contained a reservation of similar import, and would, in fact, be subject to a similar reservation by force of the statute, even if it were not expressed.
The reservation allows a judicial inquiry into the merits
of opposing claims to the land. Now there could be no opposing claims to land situated like the premises in suit, the
legal title of which was in the United States, and with reference to which no promise of title had been made to others
by the government, unless such claims arose from conflicting evidence respecting the residence and cultivation of dif-'
ferent parties.
The purpose of all the legislation of Congress, with respect
to titles in the " neutral territory," so-called, of Louisiana,
was, among other things, to secure to parties the land which
they had resided upon and cultivated during the period
when the sovereignty of the country was disputed. It, in
truth, invited the occupants to present the evidences of their
habitation and cultivation; not indeed promising a title
when such habitation and cultivation were established, but
naturally exciting expectation that a title would follow, unless grave reasons of public policy intervened and prevented.
In some instances there were conflicting claims to the same
land, and this was known to Congress. The act of 1835
provided for taking and preserving the evidence offered by

Dec. 1867.]

WRITE V.

CANNON.

Opinion of the court.

parties resisting a confirmation, whether such contest was
made on their account, or on behalf of the government.
We are, therefore, of opinion that it was for the benefit
of parties thus situated-of claimants who might contest the
fact of habitation, occupation, or cultivation-that the reservation was made. The United States, in effect, said: We
part with the legal title by our patent, but we intend that it
shall enure to the party who actually inhabited and cultivated
the land previous to February 22d, 1819, and we allow this
matter to be litigated before the judicial tribunals of the
country, and to be determined by them.
Such being, in our judgment, the true intent and meaning
of the reservation, the case presented can be readily disposed
of. It becomes then the ordinary case of a party acquiring,
by false and fraudulent means, a legal title to property to
which another has the better right, and which he would have
obtained, had the facts, as they existed, been truly represented. In such case equity will compel the holder of the
legal title to transfer it to the'party who was justly entitled
thereto.
We admit that, independent of the reservation and of the
construction which we have given to it, in the light of attending circumstances and the history of claims of this character, there would be no equitable title in the plaintiff,
which could be the foundation of a suit. The act of 1823
did not confer any rights, for that expressly provided that
nothing contained in it should be considered as a pledge on
the part of the United States to confirm any claim reported
by the register and receiver. The act of 1828 did not confirm any claim, or make its confirmation dependent upon
any future coItingency; it only suspended the action of
Congress upon the claim until a particular fact could be ascertained. Nor can the position of the claimant, Edward
McLaughlin, or of the plaintiff claiming under him, be assimilated to that of a person who has acquired a pre-emptive
right to the land, or any other inchoate right, which entitles
him, under the law, to be preferred by the government in
the disposition of the legal title, and upon the equity of
VOL. Vi.

29

"WHITE V.

C ANNON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which he can compel any person, subsequently acquiring
that title, to hold it for his benefit. Congress could have
bestowed the land in question upon any other party without
giving ground for just complaint to Edward McLaughlin, or
parties claiming under him. We place the entire right of
the plaintiff to maintain the present suit upon the effect of
the reservation in the act of July 6th, 1842.
Thejudgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana adjudges
and decrees that the plaintiff be recognized as the lawful
owner of the land, and that a writ of possession issue. Treating this as substantially equivalent to a decree that the defendant convey the legal title acquired by the patent to the
plaintiff, and surrender possession to him, we affirm the
judgment. As to that portion of the judgment which awards
damages to the plaintiff for the use of the premises, and
compensatiop to the defendant for improvements, we are not
called upon to express an opinion, as they are matters not
brought under our supervision by the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act. They are provisions made under the
local laws of the State.
The'objection that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Louis iana is to be treated as void, because rendered some
-days after the passage of the ordinance of secession of that
State, is not tenable. That ordinance was an absolute nullity, and of itself alone, neither affected the jurisdiction of
that court or its relation to the appellate power of this court.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.
[See Walker v. Villavaso, supra, 124.

