Dec. 1867.]

STEARNS V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

STEARNS V. UNITED STATES.
The authority of the Mexican governors to make alienations of the public
domain within the limits of California, ceased July 7th, 1846. Grants
made after that date are void. A grant so made, though antedated,
was accordingly in this case held null.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Northern District
of California. The case being one of fact merely.

Messrs. Carlisle and Cushing, for the appellant; 31r. Stanbe'y, A. G., and .9r.Browning, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYV E delivered the opinion of the court;
stating the case.

This case was instituted originally before the "Board of
Commissioners to ascertain and settle Private land Claims
in the State of California." The decision of the board was
adverse to the claim. The case was thereupon removed,
pursuant to law, to the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of. California. The decree there
also was adverse, and the claimant has brought thd case
before this court by appeal.
Two objections were taken in the argument at the bar in
behalf of the United States.
First. That the papers upon which the claim rests, were
antedated, and were, in fact, executed after the 7th of July,
1846; and,
Second. That the boundaries specified were so indefinite,
that they render the claim void for uncertainty.
SThe paper title produced by the claimant consists of a grant
by Pio Pico to Joseph Andrade, dated May 6th, 1846, and
the expediente, found in the archives. The latter is made up
of the petition of Andrade, dated May 4th, 1846, a marginal
order by the governor, dated May 5th, 1846, directing the
title to issue, and the borrador of the titulo issued to the interested party. Andrade transferred his claim to Stearns, the
claimant and appellant, on the 9th of August, 1846. Th

590

STEARNS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

petition, marginal order, and concession, all bear date at Los
Angeles. The petition is in the handwriting of Vicente
Gomez, signed by Andrade, and witnessed by Cota and
Enrigues. The concession is in the handwriting of Benito
Diaz, and signed by Pico as governor, and Jose Matias Mo..
reno as secretary.
The conquest of Upper California by the arms of the
'United States is regarded as having become complete on the
7th of July, 1846. Monterey was captured on that day.
They then held military possession of a large part of the
country. The Mexican forces were in full retreat to Lower
California. But a few weeks elapsed until the surrender of
Los Angeles, and the establishment of a territorial government by the invaders. The 7th of July has been fixed upon
as the point of time at which terminated the authority of
the Mexican govern.or to make alienations of the public domain within the conquered territory. All grants made after
that time are void.*
The forces under General Castro fell back from M'Nonterey
on the 7th of July, and reached Los Angeles the latter part
of that month. Andrade, Vicente Gomez, and Benito Diaz,
were all soldiers in his army, and reached Los Angeles with
the rest of the troops.
The counsel for the United States insist that the papers
were prepared at this time, and not at the prior times when
they bear date.
All the parties -whose writing or signatures appear in
them were at Los Angeles the last of July. This fact is too
clear for controversy, and there is none upon the subject.
Were they there on the 4th, 5th, and 6th days of the preceding month of May? This inquiry is the hinge of the'
controversy between the parties as to this part of the case.
Pico, the goveTfnor, and Moreno, the secretary, testify that
the dates are correct, but it is admitted that their characters
are so deeply affected by fraud and perjury in other cases
that no weight can safely be given to their testimony. It
United States v. Pico, 23 Howard, 326; Same v. Yorba, I Wallace, 422.

.Dec. 1867.]

STEARNS

V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

does not appear that Andrade was examined as a witness.
After reading carefully the testimony of Ambrosio Gomez,
Chaves, Montenegro, De la Guerra, and Padilla, it is difficult to resist the conclusion that he was in Monterey and not
at Los Angeles upon the days when the papers bear date.
This conviction is fixed in our minds. The testimony of
Cota and Serrano, taken by the claimant, is insufficient to
remove it.
Vicente Gomez says in his deposition that the date of the
petition is "surely" correct; but he says further that he
went from Monterey to Los Angeles with the army of General Castro; that he wrote the petition at Los Angeles upor
that occasion, and that he was not there at any other time
during the year 1846. The fact last mentioned, if true, is
conclusive. But the character of this witness is admitted to
be upon a level with those of Pico and Moreno. His testimolly, therefore, needs corroboration to entitle it to belief.
This the United States have supplied by the monthly customhouse balance-sheet, in the handwriting of Gomez, and approved by Manuel Castro, dated at Monterey, May 1st, 1846,
produced from the Spanish archives, and by the deposition
of his brother, Ambrosio Gomez, of Castro, of De la Guerra,
and of Montenegro. This testimony, without that of Vicente Gomez, and indeed in contradiction to it, would be
sufficient to establish the fact that he was at Monterey, .and
could not have been at Los Angeles upon the days of Mfay
in question. This point seemed hardly to be controverted
in the argument for the claimant. The proof is conclusive.
Benito Diaz testifies that the concession is in his handwriting, that it was not written at its date, and that it was
written at Los Angeles in July or August, after his arrival
there with General Castro. His character is subject to the
same infirmity as that of Gomez, and his testimony equally
requires support from other sources. The custom-house exhibits produced and identified by Hopkins, and the testi-

mony of De ]a Guerra, Chaves, Pinto, Fernandez, and Rodrigues, leave no room for doubt that he was not at Los
Angeles in the early part of May. He was clearly then at

STEARNS V. UNITED STATES.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Monterey, and in the performance of his duties there as an
employ6 in the custom-house.
The explanations submitted by the counsel for the claimant
are ingenious and plausible, but neither they nor the testimony adduced by the claimant are sufficient to countervail
the weight of the evidence to which we have referred.
There was no informe and" no diseno. None were submitted when the concession was applied for. The petition
was not presented through the prefect. The latter was required by the established orders both of Alvarado and Pico,
upon the subject. It does not appear that judicial possession
was ever given or attempted to be given. On the 8th of
May, 1846, forty-five expedientes were sent to the dipartmental assembly for ,approval. The one in question in this
case was not among them. If then in existence, why was it
not transmitted with the others? The omission is unaccounted for.
Stearns lived in California before and at the time of the
conquest. In the spring of 1847, Col. J.D. Stevenson, an
officer of the United States, was placed in command of the
southern military district of California, and charged partic.
ularly with the duty of investigating the land grants which
had been made by the Mexican authorities within the limits
of his command. He says: "Soon after I got my district
in order I began to make inquiries as to who were the civil
officers under Pico, and learned from A. Stearns and others,
that he (Stearns) was either the prefect or sub-prefect, and
an intimate and confidential friend of Pico, and from him
and others I learned that grants were made after it was
known that the Americans had taken possession of California, which were antedated, and especially those made in this
section of country from San Jose this way, and that a very
large portion of them were signed by Pico on the day and
night preceding his start for Mexico, which was about the
8th or 9th August, 1846; Stearns told me that he was present on the day and night referred to, especially the night
those grants were executed, and that Pico left him (Stearns)
in charge as next officer in command. These grants were

Dec. 1867.]

STEARNS

V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

frequently the subject of conversation; and on one occasion
a party, to whom a valuable grant was made, confessed to
me that the grant was executed that night, and he knew
nothing of it until he was sent for to accept the grant. I
availed myself of every opportunity to obtain information
about these grants, both by conversation and otherwise."
The credibility of this witness, and the truth 'of his statements, are undisputed.
It has been pressed upon our attention with zeal and ability that it could not have been known by the Mexican authorities, even as late as the 9th of August, that the country
would be held permanently by the United States, and that
hence there was no inducement to antedate the papers in the
case before us. That like papers belonging to other expedientes were antedated about that time cannot be denied.
The reasons and object in all the cases were doubtless the
same. It is frequently difficult to unveil the heart and find
the motive which animated the guilty act. Where the guilt
is doubtful, the inquiry is important, and the result may be
decisive. Where theguilt is otherwise clear, the inquiry is
of no moment. Whatever the result, it cannot affect the
grasp which the previous conviction holds upon the mind.
The state of the evidence before us presents a case of the
latter character.
But it is not difficult to imagine an adequate motive for
the imputed fraud. The United States were substantially
in possession of the country. The military power of their
adversary was destroyed. The indications were unmistakable, that it was their intention to appropriate and absorb
the country. If the dominion of Mexico were not to be restored, the earlier her grants, the more likely they were to
be sustained by the succeeding government. It could not
be expected that those would be recognized which were
made after her authority was overthrown. The antedated
grants cost her nothing. Her officers gave only what was
already lost, and thereby rewarded her friends and injured
her enemy.
VOL. VI.

88

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the case.

Our conclusion upon this branch of the case renders it unnecessary to consider the subject of the boundaries.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
AFFIRtED.

SOCIETY FOR SAVINGS V.

COITE.

1. A statute of a State requiring savings societies, authorized to receive deposits but withbut authority to issue bills, and having no capital stock,
to pay annually into the State treasury a sum equal to three-fourths of
one per cen't. on the total amount of their deposits on a given day, imposes a franchise tax, not a tax on property.
2. Such a tax is valid.
3. Consequently the fact that a savings society so taxed has invested a part
of its deposits in securities of the United States declared by Congress, in
the act which authorized their issue, to be exempt from taxation by
State authority, does not exempt the society from taxation to the extent
of deposits so invested.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Connecticut; the case be-

ing thus:

The legislature of Connecticut, in 1863, enacted that the
several savings banks in the State should make annual return to the comptroller of public accounts, "of the total
amounts of all depositg" in them respectively, on the first day
of July in each successive year; and that each should annually pay to the treasurer of the State, "a sum equal to
three-fourtbs of one per cent. on the total amount of deposits"
in such savings bank, on the days aforesaid. The statute
declared that this tax should be in lieu of all other taxes
upon savings banks or their deposit.
With this statute in existence, the "Society for Savings"
-one of the savings banks of Connecticut, and as such
empowered by its charter to receive deposits of money, and
improve them for the benefit of its depositors, but having no
capital stock or stockholders-had on the 1st July, 1863,
$500,161 of its deposits invested in securities of the United
'States, which, by the act of Congress authorizing their

