Dec. 1867.]

LuM v. ROBERTSON.
Statement of the case.

to show their invalidity. Where, however, the sale is not
open to objections of this nature, but is impeached for fraud
or unfair practices of officer or purchaser, to the prejudice
of the owner, a court of equity is the proper tribunal to afford
relief. Thus in Dudley v. Little,* equity relieved against a
tax sale and deed, where there had been a combination
among several persons that one of them should buy in the
land to prevent competition.t
It follows from the views expressed, that the complainant
is entitled to a release from the defendant of all the right
and interest acquired by him under the tax deeds in the property owned by the complainant at the time of the sale. The
decree of the court below will therefore be REVERSED, and
the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree in accordance with this opinion.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

LUm V. ROBERTSON.
1. Where a bank charter is forfeited on quo war'anto and the cozporation is
dissolved, and a trustee appointed by judicial order made under statute
to collect the debts due to it and apply them to the payment of debts
which it owes, does so collect them and pay-any surplus, by the laws
of Mississippi, and by general laws of equity, will belong to the stockholders. Bacon v. Bobertson (18 Howard, 480), affirmed.
2. A delinquent debtor cannot in such case plead the judgment of forfeiture
as against a trustee seeking to reduce' his debt to money for the benefit
of the stockholders.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for Eastern Texas.
In July, 1851, Lum made two promissory notes at Natchez, Mississippi, in favor of Robertson, as trustee of the
Commercial Bank of Natchez, or order. On these notes
* 2 Hammond, 504.

f See also Yancey v. Hopkins, 1Iumford, 419; Rowland v. Doty, Har.
ringtor's Chancery, 3 ; Bacon v. Con 1 Smedes & Marshall's do. 348.

L'UmH v.

ROBERTSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

suit was brought below in the name of Robertson, for the
use of Alexander Ferguson.
The defendant pleaded substantially as f6llows:
That prior to the making of the notes, an information in
the nature of a quo warranto,had been instituted by the State
of Mississippi against the bank, under which its charter was
declared forfeited, and the corporation was judicially dis.
solved, in pursuance of an act of the legislature of the State.
That under the provisions of the act, Robertson was, by
an order of court, appointed trustee, for the purposes set
forth in the act, viz., "to take charge of the assets and books
of said Commercial Bank -of Natchez, wherever the same
might be found, either in the possession of said bank, or
their officers, agents, trustees, or attorneys; to sue for and
collect all debts due to the bank, and tbe proceeds of the
debts when collected, and of the property when sold, to apply
as might be thereafter directed by law, to the payment of the
debts of the said Commercial Bank of Natchez."
That the foregoing, and no others, were the appointment,
power and authority of the said Robertson, as trustee of said
bank, and that he ,never had any other right, title or interest
as said trustee; that the said notes were executed on account
of a debt to the said bank, and th'at the consideration thereof
wholly moved from, and was due to, the bank, and that the
notes were executed to Robertson in his official character
and right, as trustee as aforesaid, and in no other character
or right.
That subsequently, it appearing to the satisfaction of the

said court that Robertson had fully discharged all his duties
as trustee, and had fully satisfied and paid all legal claims
against the .trust fund in his hands, it was ordered, that he
be finally discharged from all the rights and duties conferred
upon him, by virtue of his appointment as such trustee, &c.
That afterwards, to wit, in a suit by one Bacon and other
stockholders against Robertson, for the purpose of recovering
and distributing the surplus assets among the stockholders, Ferguson, to whose use the present suit was brought by a decree
of court, duly appointed a receiver in said cause, "and that

Dec. 1867.]

LUM V.

ROBERTSON.

Opinion of the court.

Robertson was ordered to deliver to Ferguson all the moneys,
bonds, notes and property of all kinds which the said Robertson had held as late trustee."
That at the time.the notes were made and executed tc
Robertson, trustee as aforesaid, he had collected of the debts,
effects and property of said bank, an amount of money sufficient to pay off all its debts, and all costs, charges and expenses incident to the perfbrmance of his said trust, and had,
in fact, paid off the same, and thereby becameftnctus officio,
and was further expressly removed from his said office of
trustee, as aforesaid.
To these pleas the plaintiff demurred. The court sustained the demurrer, and judgment went for the plaintiff.
The matter for determination on error here, was whether
the pleas presented a valid defence to the action.
Messrs. Green Adams and Leech, for the plaintiff in error;
Messrs. Conway Robinson and W. G. Hale, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision of this court in Bacon et al. v. Robertson,*
disposes of this case.
The Commercial Bank of Natchez, Mississippi, by judicial
forfeiture, was deprived of its charter, and Robertson appointed a trustee to wind up its affairs. In discharge of hie
trust, having paid all the debts of the insolvent corporation,
a large surplus remained. The object of the suit in Bacon
v. Robertson, was to establish the title of the stockholders to
this surplus. Robertson refused to distribute the effects in
his hands, claiming that, since the dissolution of the corporation, the stockholders had no rights which this court could
recognize. But the court, in an elaborate opinion, decide
that the trustee cannot deny the title of the stockholders to
a distribution, and that, by the laws of Mississippi and the
general principles of equity jurisprudence, the surplus of the
18 Howard, 480.

BARNEY V. BALTIMORE

CITY.

[Sup. ot.

Syllabus.

assets which may remain after the payment of debts and
expenses, belong to the stockholders of the bank.
After this decision, Ferguson was appointed receiver, and
Robertson ordered to deliver to him the effects of the bank,
which he held as trustee. In pursuance of this order, the
two notes on which the suit is brought were delivered to
Ferguson, and the name of Robertson, in whom the legal
title rests, is used to enforce their collection.
Lum, a delinquent debtor of the bank, cannot plead the
extinguishment of his debt by the judgment of forfeiture,
for the court (in the case cited) say, the debt exists and can
be recovered, and that it is the duty of the trustee to reduce
the property of the bank to money, and distribute it among
the stockholders. Nor can Lum be permitted to show (not
having a meritorious defence to the suit) that Robertson, the
nominal plainti, in whose name the suit is brought, is no
longer the real party in interest.
Ferguson having the beneficial interest in the notes, has
the right to use the name of Robertson to compel a recovery.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BARNEY V. BALTIMORE

CITY.

1. Part owners or tenants in common in real estate of which partition is
asked in equity have an interest in the subject-matter of the suit, and
in the relief sought, so intimately connected with that of their cotenants, that if these cannot be subjected to the jurisdiction of the court,

the bill will be dismissed.
2. The act of February 28th, 1839 (set forth in th case), has no application
to suits where the parties stand in this position, but has reference,
among others, to suits at law against joint obligors in contract, verbal
or written.
B. A citizen of the District of Columbia cannot -be a party to a suit in the
Federal courts, where the jurisdiction depends on the citizenship of the
parties.
4. Although the simple fact that a transfer or conveyance of the subject of
controversy is made for the purpose of vesting an interest in parties
eompetent to litigate in the .Federal courts, does not defeat the jurisdico

