242

THE SEA WITCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pose this motion for leave if he should, on seeing and considering the bill, desire to do so.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The court has adopted no rules governing suits in cases
of original jurisdiction. In cases of equity, however, it has
been the usual practice to hear a motion in behalf of the
complainant for leave to file the bill, and, leave having been
given, subsequent proceedings have been regulated by orders
made from time to time as occasion required. The motion
for leave has been usually heard ex parle; except at the Iasi
term, when leave was asked in behalf of the State of Mississippi to file a bill against the President of the United States.*
Under the peculiar circumstances of that case it was thought
proper that argument should be heard against the motion for
leave. We perceive no reason for making such an exception in the case of the present motion. It will be heard,
therefore, on the regular motion day, and only on the part
of the 'complainant; and the court will require that ten
printed copies of the bill be filed with the clerk before the
hearing.
The practice now observed maybe regarded as that which
will hereafter be adopted in all cases of original equity jurisdiction.

THE SEA WITCH.
Restitution of a neutral vessel ordered, which had apparently set out on a
lawful voyage, though she was captured out of the most direct and
regular course of it, and in a position open to some question; there having been heavy weather which might have made her desirous to take
the course she did,-one hugging a semicircular coast rather than a more
direct one across its chord.

from the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The schooner Sea Witch was captured in the Gulf of
APPEAL

* 4 Wallace, 475.

Dec. 1867.]

THlE

SEA "WITCH.

Opinion of the court.

Mexico on the 31st of December, 1864, by the United States
war steamer Metacomet, for alleged breach of the blockade
of the Texas coast, then established by our government.
The schooner was a neutral vessel, with a neutral cargo,
coffee, drugs, &c., regularly cleared from Vera Cruz for New
Orleans, under a license granted by the vice-consul of the
United States, in pursuance of the proclamation of the President, opening the port of New Orleans to trade, and of the
regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury. But at the
time of the capture she was out of the ordinary and most
direct line of a voyage from Vera Cruz to New Orleans, and
somewhat along the coast and in a position to go to Galveston, Texas, then blockaded. She had encountered heavy
weather before the capture and was somewhat damaged;
and it was alleged by the master that he had abandoned the
voyage to New Orleans, and was about returning to Vera
Cruz. Having been brought into New Orleans and libelled
as prize in the District Court, restitution was decreed and a
certificate of reasonable cause given the captors. The United
States appealed.
-3fr. Ashton, special counsel of the United States, contended
that the case exhibited but the ordinary sinuous devices of
blockade-runners; simulating one voyage, purposing another.
The vessel was just where she would have been had she
been going to Galveston, and where she would not have been
if going to New Orleans.
Moreover at this time, as is matter of public history, New
Orleans had been but recently opened to trade, and of course
was glutted with the articles which this vessel carried.
Coffee was higher in Vera Cruz thian in New Orleans; and
as for drugs, it was shipping "coals to New Castle," to take
them to the last-named port. Galveston, on the other hand,
closely blockaded, was in extreme necessity of both.
.Ar. Mlarvin, contra.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The only ground of suspicion that a violation of the block.

MoCL;ANE V. BOON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

ade was intended is the fact that the vessel, when captured,
was out of the most direct regular course to New Orleans,
and in a part of the gulf where she would very probably
have been had her real destination been Galveston. But
we think this is sufficiently accounted for by the weather,
and by the probability that such a vessel, really bound for
New Orleans, would prefer to keep at no greater distance
from the shore than the blockade would require, rather than
take the more direct course across the gulf.
It was stated in the argument that the cargo of the vessel
would not command at New Orleans so good a price as at
Vera Cruz; and this circumstance, if proved, would be entitled to great weight. But there is no evidence of that sort
in the record.
On the whole, therefore, we think that the decree of the
District Court was correct, and shall order that it be
AFFIRMED.

MCLANE V.

BOON.

1. Where, pending a writ of error to this court, subsequently dismissed, the
defendant in error dies and the other side wishes to take a new writ,
application should, be made to the court below for the purpose of reviving the suit in the name of the representatives of the deceased. A
writ of error can then regularly issue. A motion iirthis court to revive
the writ by suggesting the death and substituting the representatives
as parties to the record is not regular.
2. If the court below should refuse an application such as that above contemplated, in the circumstances mentioned, then the writ may, from
necessity, issue in the name of the representatives, in the usual way,
serving on them the citation to appear at the next term.

ERROR to the Su!reme Court of the State of Oregon.
On motion. Boon filed a bill in a State court of Oregon
against McClane, to enjoin him from prosecuting an action
at law to recover the possession of a lot of land, for which
a patent had been issued to McClane by the United States,
and praying that the same might be held by McClane as
truitee for the benefit of him, Boon. The court dismissed

