Dee. 1867.]

UNITED STATES

v. ALIRE.

Statement of the case.

U'NITED STATES V. ALIRE.
A case in the Court of Claims which involves the right of a claimant to a
military bounty land warrant under the acts of Congress of Miarch 3d,
1835, and May 14th, 1856, which claim had been rejected by the commissioner of pensions, and the rejection confirmed by the Secretary of
the Interior, is apparently within that part of the fifth section of the act
of March 3d, 1863, which provides "1 that when the judgment or decree
will affect a class of cases, or furnish a precedent for the future action
of any executive departmept of the government in the adjustment of
such class of cases, . . . and such facts shall be certified to by the presiding justice of the Court of Claims, the Supreme Court shall entertain
an appeal on behalf of the United States, without regard to the amount
in controversy."
Accordingly, an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims in such a
case, where there had been no special allowance, and which had been
dismissed by this court, because not a judgment for money and over
$SVO0, was, on motion of the United States, reinstated, and the record
remanded to the Court of Claims for such further proceedings as might
seem fit and proper in the cause as it respected the appeal prayed for.

from the Court of Claims.
Julian Alire filed a petition in that court setting forth that
under the acts of Congress of March 3d, 1855, and of May
14th, 1856, he had made application to the commissioner of
pensions for one hundred and sixty acres of bounty land, and
had conformed to the provisions of the said acts, and the rules
and regulations of the pension office; that the application
was rejected by the commissioner, and that, on appeal to the
Secretary of the Interior, the rejection had been confirmed.
Iss'ue was taken in the Court of Claims on this petition, and
the cause having been afterwards heard before it, a decree
was rendered in favor of the petitioner for a bounty land
warrant, to be made and delivered to him by the proper
officer. It was also further ordered that the decree should
be certified by the clerk of the court, under its seal, and remitted to the Secretary of the Department of the Interior.
From this decree the United States appealed, on the
ground among others that the court below had no jurisdic.
tion of the case. The soundness of this view depended, of
course, on statutes organizing or regulating that court.
APPEAL

UNITED STATES

v.

ALIRE.

[Sup. ct.

Statement of the case.

The first act* organizing the court was passed February
'24th, 1855, and the jurisdiction conferred was "to bear and
determine all claims founded upon any law of Congress, or
upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon
any contract, express or implied, with the government of
the United States, which may be suggested to it by a petition filed therein, and also all claims which may be. referred
to said court by either house of Congress."
The court was directed to keep a record of their proceedings, and, at the commencement of each session of Congress,
and of each month during the session, report to Congress
the cases upon which the court had fully acted, stating in
each the material facts which they find established by the
evidence, with their opinion in the case, and the reasons
upon which it is founded. The court were also directedt to
prepare a bill in the cases det6rmined, favorably, in such
form as, if enacted, will carry the same into effect.
The next act relating to the organization of the court.was
passed March 3d, 1863.1
The second section of this act conferred substantially the
same jurisdiction as to cases before the court as in the first
section of the previous act; but jurisdiction, in addition, was
conferred over set-offs, counter-claims, &c., &c., on the part
of the government against the petitioner.
The fifth section provided, that either party might appeal
to the Supreme Court of the United States from any final
judgment or decree which might thereafter be rendered in
the Court of Claims, wherein the amount in controve'sy exceeded
three thousand dollars.
The seventh section, that in all cases of final judgment by
said court, or on appeal by the Supreme Court, where the
same was affirmed in favor of the claimant, the sum due
thereby shall bepaid out of any general appropriation made
by law for the payment of private claims, on presentation to
the Secretary of the Treasury of a copy of said judgment, &c.
And in cases where the judgment appealed from is in favor
110 Star.

at Large, 612,

1.

-

? 5.

+ 12 Stat. at Large, 765.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V.

ALIRE.

Opinion of the court.

of said claimant, or the same is affirmed by the Supreme
Court, interest at the rate of five per cent. shall be allowed from
the date of its presentation to the Secretary of the Treasury
for payment, but no interest shall be allowed subsequent to
the affirmance unless presented for payment to the Secretary
of the Treasury as aforesaid, with a proviso that no interest
shall be allowed on any claim up to the time of the renditiop
of the judgment by said Court of Claims, unless on a contract expressly stipulating for interest.
The thirteenth section enacted that all laws, and parts of
laws, inconsistent.with the provisions of this act, were thereby
repealed.
11r. Norton, solicitorfor the Court qf Claims, contended that
the fifth and seventh sections of the act of 1863 showed that

the Court of Claims could give no judgments against the
United States for anything but money.
Messrs. Hughes, Denvers, and Peck, with Mr. Watts (by brief
filed), argued, contra, that the jurisdiction was, by the previous
act of 1855, expressly given where the claim was founded
on any act of Congress; and that confessedly the claim was
here so founded.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question presented in the record, which we shall
examine, is whether or not the court below had jurisdiction
of the cause.
It will be seen by reference to the two acts of Congress on
this subject, that the only judgments which the Court of
Claims are authorized to render against the government, or
over which the Supreme Court have any jurisdiction on appeal, or for the payment of which by the Secretary of the
Treasury any provision is made, are judgments for money
found due from the government to the petitioner. And,
although it is true that the subject-matter over which jurisdiction is conferred, both in the act of 1855 and of 1868, would
admit of a much more extended cognizance of cases, yet it is

UNITED STATES V. ALIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

quite clear that the limited power given to render a judgment
necessarily restrains the general terms, and confines the
subject-matter to cases in which the petitioner sets up a
moneyed demand as die from the government.
This view is confirmed by the judgment of this court in
the case of Gordon, Adm'r, v. United States,* in which the
court denied any jurisdiction over the case on account of
the power of the executive department over its judgment by
the fourteenth section of the act of 1863. That section was
repealed by the first section of the act of March 17th, 1866.
The decree, or judgment, in the present case is, that the
claimant recover of the government a military land warrant
for one hundred and sixty acres of land, and that it be made
out and delivered to the said Julian Alire by the proper
officer, and the decree to be certified and remitted to the
Secretary of the Interior. We find no provision in any of
the statutes requiring a judgment of this character, whether
in this court or in the Court of Claims, to be obeyed or satisfied. Nor does either court possess any authority to render
such a judgment, as is apparent from a perusal of the seventh
section of the act of 1863, and which is the only one providing for the rendition of a judgment or decree in any case
before the court below.
Even if the first section of the act of 1855 and the second
of 1863 could be construed as giving a jurisdiction in casea
other than money demands against the government, no judgment could be rendered by the court below, and, of consequence, the carrying into effect their finding must depend
on the act of 1855. But we are of opinion that it was intended by the several provisions of the act of 1863 that the
cases to be heard were to pass into a judgment as prescribed
in the seventh section of the latter act, and hence they must
be such in their nature and character as may admit of a judgment or decree in conformity with its provisions.
Our conclusion is, the court below had no jurisdiction of
2 Wallace, 561; 1 Court of Claims Reports, 33; Acts establishing the
Court of Claims.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED SrATES

v.

ALIRE.-

577

Oninion of the court.

this case, and that the decree must be reversed, and the

cause remanded to the court with directions to enter a decree dismissing the petition.
NOTE.

A motion was subsequently made on the part of the United
States to reinstate on the docket this cause, dismissed as above
stated at this term (on the ground that it did not appear that
the amount in controversy exceeded $3000), and to remand it
to the Court of Claims with a view to an amended or special appeal under the fifth section of the act of March 3d, 1863,* which
provides "that when the judgment or decree will affect a class
of cases or furnish a precedent for the future action of any executive department of the government in the adjustment of such
class of cases, . . . and such facts shall be certified to by the
presiding justice of the Court of Claims, the Supreme Court shall
entertain an appeal on behalf of the United States, without regard to the amount in controversy."
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The case involves the right of the claimant to a military
bounty land warrant under the acts of Congress passed March
3d, 1855, and May 14th, 1856, which claim had been rejected
by the commissioner of pensions, and the rejection confirmed
by the Secretary of the Interior. The case would seem to fall
within the provision providing for a special appeal on behalf of
the government. We see no valid objection to the motion, and
therefore direct the cause to be reinstated on the docket, and
the record remanded back to the Court of Claims for such further
proceedings as may seem fit and proper in the cause as it respects the appeal prayed for.
REMANDED

12 Stat. at Large, 765-6.

TC L. VL

ACCORDINGLY.

