Dec. 1867.]

ALVISO V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

ALVIso v. UNITED STATES.
An appeal from California dismissed at the last term for apparent want of
a citation, now reinstated, it appearing that a citation had in fact been
signed, served and filed in the clerk's office, and that the building ir.
which his office was kept had been afterwards partially destroyed by
fire, and a great confusion and some loss of records occasioned in consequence.

THIS was a motion to reinstate on the docket an appeal
fiom the District Court for the Northern District of California, that had been dismissed at the last term.*
The decree was rendered in the United States District
Court for California, in favor of the United States, on the
8th September, 1863, and an appeal taken on the 23d February, 1864, returnable at the next term of the court, and
the record brought up to this court and filed on the 11th
November, 1864, which was in time. At the December
Term, 1866, the cause was dismissed for want of a citation.
The counsel for the appellant now produced evidence to show
that a citation was, in fact, signed by the judge at the time
of the allowance of the appeal, and duly served on the district attorney representing the United States, on the same
day, and afterwards filed in the clerk's office. In July, 1866,
the building in which the clerk's office was kept was partially destroyed by fire, which occasioned great confusion,
and some loss of the records, and which embarrassed and
delayed the appellant in procuring the evidence of the above
facts, and in connection with the distance from the place
where this court is held, sufficiently accounted, as the court
said, for not making the motion at the last term.
MrIr. J. 1. Bradley, in support of the motion; Mr. Wills, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
As the omission to return the citation appears to have
arisen from the neglect of the clerk, if it had been shown
5 Wallace, 824.

458

DOE,

LESSEE OF

PooR,

v. CONSIDINE.

[SUp. Ct

Statement of the case.

that it remained in the office, a certiorariwouldhave been sent
down on a prayer of diminution; but as it has been satisfactorily proved to have been lost or destroyed, it is not a
case for a certiorari.
The Palmyra*is an authority for granting the relief sought
at the succeeding term of the court in a case like the pres.
ent. In that case, when the cause was called at the February Term, 1825, upon an inspection of the record, it did
not appear from the transcript that there had been a final
decree rendered in the court below, and for this reason the
appeal was dismissed. At the next term, it having been
shown the omission was the error of the clerk in making out
the transcript, the cause was reinstated on the docket. Mr.
Justice Story says, "The reinstatement of the cause was
founded, in the opinion of the court, upon the plain principles of justice, and is according to the known practice of
other judicial tribunals in like cases."
MOTION -GRANTED.

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.
1. Though a devise to trustees "1and their heirs," passes, as a general thing,
the fee, yet where the purposes of a trust and the power and duties of
the trustees are limited to objects terminating with lives in being,where the duties of the trustees are wholly passive, and the trust thus
perfectly dry,-the trust estate may be considered as terminating on the
efflux of the lives. The language used in creating the estate will be
limited to the purposes of its creation.
2. Estates in remainder vest at the earliest period possible, unless there be a
clear manifestation of the intention of the testator to the contrary.

And in furtherance of this principle, the expression " upon the decease of
A., I give and devise the remainder," construed to relate to the time of
the enjoyment of the estate, and not the time of the vesting in interest.

3. 'Where the language of a statute, read in the order of clauses as passed,
presents no ambiguity, courts will not attempt by transposition of clauses,
and from what it can be ingeniously argued was a general intent, to
qualify, by construction,.the meaning.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
12 Wheaton, 10.

