Dec. 1867.]

THE VANDERBILT.
Syllabus.

shall never carry," an exception justified by experience, which
showed that it caused many collisions, arising from mistaking it for a light on shore; the case of "_Propeller Monticello
v. Mollisson,"* being an example. There the steamer was
running on a course a mile wide of the schooner, but mistaking her mast-head light fbr a light-house, she steered with
such accuracy of aim as to strike the schooner exactly and
with such force as to sink her.
By the customs and rules of navigation every vessel at
anchor in a harbor or roadstead is bound to keep a light suspended on board. But previous to the passage of this act
sailing vessels on the rivers and on the ocean were not bound
by any law or custom to carry lights. The case of The Osprey, cited by the appellant's counsel, applies to vessels meeting in the same line, where one party can plainly see the
other and yet keeps dark. But where the danger of collision
is the consequence of a sudden and unexpected change of
course, which produces a sudden peril and leaves no time to
the sailing vessel to display a light before a collision-or do
more than shout-where the steamboat, if it had had a sufficient lookout, might easily have avoided the collision, it has
no right to complain or demand that the damages should be
divided as where both are in fault.
The exceptions to the master's report are without just
foundation after the Circuit Court had reduced the damages
to the amount of $51M.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED.

THE VANDERBILT.

1. Where the usage in navigating a river is, that both ascending and descending vessels shall keep to the right of the centre of the channel,which is the usage in the River Hudson,-the omission to comply, seasonably, with that regulation, if the omission contributes to the collision,
is a fault for which the offending vessel and her owners must be responsible.
* 17 Howard, 152.
VOL. vr.

15

TnE

VANDERBILT.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. O.mplianc6 with such a usage is required in all cases where the course of
a vessel is such that, if continued, there would be danger of collision
with other vessels navigating in the opposite direction.
3. Unless precautions are seasonable, they constitute no defence against a
charge of collision, although they may be in form such as the rules of
navigation require.
4. Objections to the amount of damages, as reported by a commissioner and
awarded by the admiralty court, will not be entertained in this court in
a case of collision where it appears that neither party excepted to the
report of the commissioner.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of New York.
On the morning of May 16th, 1863, the steam-tug Hubbard was slowly descending the west side of the Hudson River,
here one thousand or more feet wide. She was about one
hundred and seventy-five feet from the shore, and had in
tow four canal-boats, of which the Canisteo was one. She
was now opposite the lower part of Troy, a city on the east
side of the river. At the same time the Vanderbilt, a large
steamer, regularly plying on the stream, ywas coming up it,
and was making for her dock about a mile off, in the upper
part of Troy. But she was on the west side of the channel
also, and had been sailing on that side of it. The morning
had been clear, but a fog-bank settling itself at that part of
the river, both vessels as they entered it were unable to see
ahead. Running each on its course, they suddenly discovered one another, the two in immediate proximity. There
was apparently no exception to be taken to the manoeuvres
of navigation of either vessel in the circumstances. But
coming thus, unawares, on each other, the Vanderbilt, in
spite of all efforts made at so late a moment, struck the Canisteo, and being much the larger vessel, sunk her at once. No
difficulty had existed as to sea room for the steamer to pass
to the right and east of the descending tow. The owner of
the Canisteo now libelled the Vanderbilt in the District
Court for the Southern District of New York, where a decree was given for the libellant; that court considering that
the Vanderbilt was "disproportionately out of the channel
tovard 4he west shore." On reference to a commissioner,

Dec. 1867.]

THE VANDERBILT.

Opinion of the court

the damages were fixed at $7020. An appeal was taken to
the Circuit Court; no exception being taken iii either court
to the anount of damages. On the appeal the following
opinion was delivered by
NELSON, J. The point pressing on the steamer is that she was
too far to the west of the channel of the river, and, therefore, out
of her proper course. This view was taken by the court below,
and upon it a decree was rendered for the canal-boat. We are
inclined to concur in this result. The west side is the natural
and ordinary track for descending vessels, and the Vanderbilt,
we think, was bound to take notice of this fact, and to have kept
nearer to the middle of the iver. She had no right to act upon
the idea that, the descending boat would take that course, and
expect her to pass to the left or starboard, between her and the
west shore. What makes the case more marked in this respect,
is the fact that the steamer's dock was on the east shore, some
mile above the place of collision.
DECREE AFPIRMED.

The case being now here for review, was submitted by
Mr. Charles Jones, for the appellant, who contended that the
decree was wrong in general result, and by Mr. S. P. Nash,
contra.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The libel was filed in the District Court by the owner of
the canal-boat called the Canisteo against the steamer 0.
Vanderbilt in a cause of collision,, civil and maritime. Employment of the Vanderbilt wds to transport passengers and
freight between the cities of New York and Troy, upon the
Hudson River, and the libel alleges that the canal-boat was
employed in transporting freight between the former city
and divers ports and places on the same river and the Erie
Canal. Allegations of the libel are, that the collision occurred on the sixteenth day of May, 1863, on the west side
of the river, nearly opposite the arsenal at Troy. Lading of
the -anal-boat was corn and flour, and the proofs showed
that she was sunk ly the collision, and that the boat and

228

THE

VANDERBILT.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

cargo became a total loss. Charge in the libel is,'that the
disaster and loss were wholly occasioned by the carelessness
and negligent and unskilful management of those intrusted
with the navigation of the steamer.
Parties were fully heard in the District Court, and the district judge being of the opinion that the charge in the libel
was true, entered a decree for the libellant, and sent the
cause to a commissioner to ascertain the amount of damages.
Subsequently the commissioner made his report, and
neither party excepting to the same, it was confirmed by the
court, and a final decree entered for that amount in favor
of the libellant. Appeal was taken by the claimants to the
Circuit Court, where the parties were again heard upon the
same evidence, and the circuit judge being of opinion that
there was no error in the record, affirmed the decree, and
thereupon the claimants appealed to this court.
1. When the collision took plaZe the canal-boat, with three
others, was in tow of the steam-tug 0. C. Hubbard, and she
was proceeding down the river, having left her berth, at
Troy, on the west side of the river, at six o'clock in the
morning. None of the boats'in tow carried any motive
power, and the testimony shows that the Canisteo was lashed
to the larboard side of the steam-tug, with one of the other
three fastened to her larboard side, and the other two were
arranged in the same way on the starboard side of the steamtug, which constituted the necessary motive power. Berth
of the Vanderbilt, at Troy, was on the east side of the river,
and she was on her return trip, from Albany, with passengers and freight.
Although there was some fog when the tug, with the four
canal-boats in tow, left the wharf in the morning, yet the
witnesses testify that objects could be seen at the same time
on both sides of the river, and that it was good weather.
ileavy rains had caused the water to rise eight or ten feet
above the ordinacy low water in summer, which very much
increased the breadth of navigation, as the largest vessels
could safely pass close to the shore. Speed of the steam-tug
as sh was proceeding down the river on the western side

IDec. 1867.]

THE

VANDERBILT.

229

Opinion of the court.

was not much greater than the current of the river, which
did not exceed four or five miles an hour. Usual pathway
of" steamers ascending the river is on the east side of the
centre of the channel, but the Vanderbilt came up on the
western side in the usual pathway of descending boats and
vessels, and the testimony proves that she was moving
through the water at nearly double the rate of the steam-tug
with the tows. Length of the canal-boats was much greater
than that of the steam-tug; and the proofs show that the •
Vanderbilt struck the Canisteo on her starboard bow six or
eight feet from the stem. Plain inference from the position
and character of the blow is, that the steamer had ported
her helm, and when the collision occurred was steering towards the east.side of the river.
Just before the collision took place both vessels passed
into a dense fog, which rested on the water, and the appellants contend that the state of the weather was such that the
steam-tug, with her tows, ought not to have left her berth
and started down the river. But the weight of the evidence
shows that the proposition involved in the defence is not well
founded. On the contrary, it is quite clear from the evidence that the indications as to the weather at the time those
in charge of the tug and tows decided to start on the trip, fully
justified their determination. Suggestion is made that the
tow was a large one, but it was well arranged, and the boats,
two on each side of the steam-tug, being well over on the
western side of the channel, were proceeding slowly down
the river in their proper pathway. Ample room was left for
the steamer to have gone to the right, as the river there, at
that stage of the water, is nearly a thousand feet wide.
Steamers may doubtless ascend on either side of the river in
the daytime when the view is not obstructed or obscured
by fog, but it was a fault-in the steamer, when she found she
was approaching a fog-bank, that she did not port her helm
and leave the accustomed pathway of descending boats and
vessels. Witnesses on board the steamer testify that the
whistle was blown to warn descending boats, and that orders
were given to stop and 'sack as soon as the steam-tug and

, 230

THE VANDE RBILT.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

tows were discovered, but it is quiet evident that all these
precautions were too late, as the collision was then inevitabje. Precautions not seasonably taken afford no defence
against the charge of negligence in cases of collision
where it appears that the disaster might have been prevented
by earlier action. Steamers approaching each other from
opposite directions are required by the general rules of navigation, as well as by the recent act of Congress, to port their
helms and pass to the right, but it is obvious that one or
both may omit to comply with the requirement until their
proximity is so close that a compliance is wholly inadequate
to accomplish any valuable purpose.
Proofs in this case show that the Vanderbilt ported her
helm, but the change of her course was so late that it insured
the collision which might, perhaps, have been avoided if she
had made an eflort to pass the descending boats on the starboard side next to the western shore. The great fault was
that she did not change her course and pass to the eastern
side of the channel before entering the fog-bank, as all the
witnesses agree she might have done without danger or
serious inconvenience. Electing, as she did, to continue her
course up the river on the western side, where those in
charge of her navigation knew she was liable to meet descending boats, she was bound to exercise great care and
caution; and it is clearly proved that she failed to comply
with requirement until it was too late.to prevent the disaster.
Objection is made to the amount of the damages awarded,
but the objection cannot prevail, as no exceptions were taken
to the commissioner's report in the District Court. Such
objections will not be entertained in this court unless the
claimant gave notice of the same in the court below by appropriate exceptions to the commissioner's report. Parties
should present their objections at the stage of the litigation
when the errors, if any, may be corrected without inconvenience and unnecessary expense; and if they fail to do so withoutjust excuse, they must be understood as having acquiesced
in the decision of the court.
DECREE AFFIRMIED WITH COSTS.

