Dec. 1867.]

THE ROCK ISLAND BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

is a writ authorized by the fourteenth section of the Judiciary
Act, as necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction which has previously attached; and when issued in such a case becomes the
substitute for the ordinary process of execution to enforce the
judgment. State courts cannot enjoin the process of proceedings in the Circuit courts, not on account of any paramountjurisdiction in the latter, but because they are entirely independent
in their sphere of action.
JUDGMENT REVERSED and the cause remanded, with directions
to grant the motion of the plaintiff and quash the return as insufficient., and for further proceedings in conformity to the
opinion of the court.

3Mr. Justice MILLER took no part in this judgment, being a
tax-payer in Lee County.

THE ROCK ISLAND BRIDGE.
A maritime lien can only exist upon movable
or upon things which are the subjects of
navigable waters. It cannot arise upon
immovable. It does not, therefore, exist

things engaged in navigation,
commerce on the high seas or
anything which is fixed and
upon a bridge.

THIS was a libel filed in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, against that part of the Rock Island
Railroad Bridge which is situated in the Northern District of
Illinois, for alleged damages done by that part of the bridge
to two steamboats, the property of the libellant, employed
in the navigation of the Mlississippi River. It alleged that,
by law and the public treaties of the United States, the
Mississippi River is, for the distance of two thousand miles,
a public navigable stream and common highway, free and
open to all the citizens of the United Statds, who are entitied to navigate the same by sailing and steam vessels, and
otherwise, without impediment or obstruction; that the Rock
Island Bridge obstructed the free navigation of the stream;
and that by col'isio. with thiq obstruction the steam vessels

Tim RocK

ISLAND BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

of the libellant had been injured, and that he had in consequence be'en damaged to an extent exceeding seventy
thousand dollars.
In aecordance with the prayer of the libel, process was
issued and the property attached. The Mlississippi and
Mi souri Railroad Company and others then intervened as
claimauts, and filed an exception to the jurisdiction of t.ke
court to proceed against the property in question in the
manner "in which the same is sought to be proceeded
against by the libel." In other words, they objected to the
jurisdiction of the court to take a'proceeding in re6n against
the property. The exception was sustained by the District
and Circuit Courts, and the libel dismissed. The correctness of this ruling was the sole question presented for the
determination of this court.
_Messrs. Arrington and iRae, in support of the jurisdiction:
The jurisdiction of the American' admiralty extends to
all cases of tort committed on navigable waters. It may be
said that the bridge is attached to, and is a, part of the land;
that it is like a wharf, and can no more be libelled than it.
This is not so. A wharf is the shore. A bridge is not a
shore. A bridge is like a vessel,-over or on the stream.
A floating bridge would be within the admiralty jurisdiction: a bridge aground -must be so also. When the teramni
rest upon either shore, the bridge is not more attached to
the soil than a vessel chained to the shore. The shore, in
either case, is'but the incident.
To make the admiralty jurisdiction depend upon subjectmatter and not upon locality, would lead to a perplexing
confusion of ideas. The principle of jurisdiction in cases of
tort ought to depend upon place, not upon the object affected.
Like crime, it is essentially local. In The Volant,* Dr.
Lushiugton says that the jurisdiction " does not depend
upon the existence of the ship, but upon the origin of the
questions to be decided, and the locality."
.31r. B. B. Cook, contra.
* 1 W. Robinson, 388.

Dec. 1867.]

THtE ROCK ISLAND BRIDGE.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
There is no doubt, as stated by the counsel for the appellant, that the jurisdiction of the admiralty extends to all
cases of tort committed on the high seas, and in this country
on navigable waters. For the redress of these torts, the
courts of admiralty may proceed in personam, and when the
cause of the injury is the subject of a maritime lien, may
also proceed in reti. The latter proceeding is the remedy
afforded for the enforcement of liens of that character.
A maritime lien, unlike a lien at common law, may, in
many cases, exist without possession of the thing, upon
which it is asserted, either actual or constructive. It confers, however, upon its holder such a right in the thing that
he may subject it to condemnation and sale to satisfy his
claim or damages; and when the lien arises from torts committed at sea, it travels with the thing, wherever that goes,
and into whosesoever hands it may pass. The only object
of the proceeding in ren, is to make this right, where it
exists, available-to carry it into effect. It subserves no
other purpose.
The lien and the proceeding in rem. are, therefore, correlative-where one exists, the other can be taken, and not
otherwise. Such is the language of the Privy Council in
the decision of the case of The Bold Buccleugh.* "A maritime lien," says that court, " is the foundation of the
proceeding in rein, a process to make perfect a right inchoate from the moment the lien attaches; and whilst it
must be admitted that where such lien exists a proceeding
in remn may be had, it will be found to be equally true, that
in all cases where a proceeding in rent is the proper course,
there a maritime lien exists, which gives a privilege or claim
upon the thing to be carried into effect by legal process."
There is an expression in the case of The Volant,t attributed to Dr. Lushington, which militates against this view.
He is reported to have said, that the damage committed on
* 7 Mfoore, 284.

t 1 W. :Robinson, 388.

THE

[Sup. Ct

EI YPODAME.
Syllabus.

the high seas confers no lien upon the ship, and this is cited
by the counsel of the appellant to show that a maritime lien
is not the foundation of a proceeding in ren. But the expression is a mere dictum, and the Privy Council in the casQ
cited allude to it, and observe that it is doubtful, from a contemporaneous report of the same case,* whether the learned
judge made use of it, and add, that if he did, the expression
is certainly inaccurate, and not being necessary for the decision of the case cannot be taken as authority.
A maritime lien can only exist upon movable things engaged in navigation, .or upon things which are the subjects
of commerce on the high seas or navigable waters. It may
arise with reference to vessels, steamers, and rafts, and upon
goods and merchandise carried by them. But it cannot
arise upon anything which is fixed and immovable, like a
wharf, a bridge, or real estate of any kind. Though bridges
and wharves may aid commerce by facilitating intercourse
on land, or the discharge of cargoes, they are not in any
sense the subjects of maritime lien.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE HYPODAME.
1. In cases of collision depending on fact, where the evidence is conflicting,
this court will not readily reverse a decree made by the District, and
affirmed by the Circuit Court. It declares that the District Court, which
can examine witnesses ore tenus, and summon, if it pleases, experienced
masters of vessels to help them, as Trinity masters do the English courts
in cases depending on nautical experience, has better opportunities than
any other courts can have for examining such cases, and for forming correct conclusions on them.
2. 'When a steam vessel proceeding in the dark hears a hail before it from
some source which it cannot or does not see, it is the duty of the steam
vessel instantly to stop and reverse her engine; not simply to "slow."
8 The captain of a steam propeller is not a competent lookout; though the
propeller be a river propeller and not a steamer of the larger size.
There should be a lookout specially placed to see what is ahead.
* 1 Notes of Cases, 508.

