MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

MINNESOTA COMPANY V. ST. PAUL COMPANY.
1. Where, under the statutes of Wisconsin, several mortgages bad been
executed by the La Orosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company, upon
several divisions into which that railroad was divided, including all the
rolling stock, which at the date of the mortgages respectively "had
been already procured or might thereafter be procured for or used upon
the said road," meaning the particular division described in the mortgage-upon a bill filed by the purchaser under a subsequent mortgage
of the whole road and all the rolling stock, claiming a portion of the
rolling stock against the purchaser under one of the former mortgages,
on the ground that it was appurtenant to another division of the road
and not to that described in such former mortgage, and also upon the
further ground that it was not included in the decreC of foreclosure of
such former mortgages, this court (Minnesota Co. v. St. Paul Co., 2
Wallace, 609), affirmed the decree against the defendant upon a demurrer to the bill.
But now the case coming back after answer and full proofs, the court held,
that in the absence of any specific apportionment in fact between the
several divisions of the road the mortgages operated upon all the rolling
stock in the order of their dates; and a decree below dismissing the bill
was affirmed.
2. A supplemental bill dismissed as relating to matters not in their nature
supplemental; and a cross-bill dismissed as rendered unnecessary by
the principal decree in this case.

Two appeals from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin; the

parties being in the first case the Milwaukee and Minnesota
Railroad Company appellant, against the Milwaukee and St.
Paul Railroad Company; and in the second, Soutter and
Knapp, survivors, against the company, appellants in the
first.
Messrs. Cary and Carlisle,for the appellants; Messrs. Cushing and Stark, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The case was before the court on a demurrer to the bill,
and is reported in 2 Wallace, p. 609. It involved a question as to the ownership of the rolling stock on the La

Dec. 1867.]

MINNESOTA Co. V. ST. PAUL Co.

743

Opinion of the court.

Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad, extending from Milwaukee
to La Crosse, some two hundred miles.
This company mortgaged the Western Division, from Portage to La Crosse, one hundred and five miles, to Bronson,
Soutter, and Knapp, on the 31st December, 1856, to secure
the bondholders; and, on the 17th August, 1857, mortgaged
the Eastern Division, from filwaukee to Portage, ninety-five
miles, to Bronson and Soutter to secure the bondholders on
that division. The mortgage on the Western Division was
foreclosed in default of payment, purchased in, and a new
company formed called the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad, which is the defendant in this suit, and which sets up
a right to the rolling stock by virtue of the purchase and
title under the mortgage.
This La Crosse and Milwaukee Company also executed a
mortgage on the first of June, 1.858, to W. Barnes to secure
another issue of bonds, which covered the whole of the road
from Milwaukee to La Crosse. This mortgage was also foreclosed in default of payment, purchased in, and a company
organized called the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad
Company, and is the complainant in this suit, and which
sets up a title to the rolling stock as owner of the equity of
redemption of the Eastern Division, there being prior mortgages on it to Bronson and Soutter, and others; thie ground
of claim being, that this stock belonged to that division, and
not to the Western, and was covered by this Bronson and
Soutter mortgage and others. The description of the rolling stock in each of the mortgages was substantially the
same, and is as follows: "And, also, all and singular the
locomotive engines and other rolling stock, and all other
equipments of every kind and description which have already
been, or may hereafter be, procured for or used on said
road," &c. Each of the three mortgages mentioned was
made subject, in express terms, to the lien of all prior mortgages on the road. When the question came before this
court on the bill and demurrer, a majority of the court held
it sufficiently appeared by the facts set forth in the bill, and
which were admitted by the demurrer, that the rolling stock

MINNESOTA Co. v. ST. PAUL Co.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

belonged to the Eastern Division by some division or assignment'of it, or, if not, it sufficiently appeared in the foreclosure and sale of the mortgage on the Western Division in
the District Court of the United States, and under which the
defendant derived title, that that court had decided the stock
belonged to the Eastern Division, and hence the complainant, the Minnesota Company, as owner of the equity of redermption, claimed it had made out a title to it. The demurrer was, of course, overruled, and the cause remanded
to the court below for further proceedings. On the cause
coming down to that court, leave was given to the defendant

to answer, which was put in accordingly, and to which there
was a replication, and the parties went to their proofs. A
large amount of testimony was taken on both sides, which
is in the record, and the cause is now before us on the pleadings and proofs. The bill was dismissed in the court below
on account of a division of opinion between the judges. It
is here on appeal by the complainant, the Minnesota Company.
The proofs show that the rolling stock in dispute was
purchased by the funds of the La Crosse and Milwaukee
Company; that it was placed and used on the entire line of
the road, embracing both divisions; and that no division of
the stock had ever been made by the company between the
two divisions, but was purchased out of the common funds,
and used on the whole line for the common benefit. The
mortgage on the Western Division was the oldest, and to
which was attached priority of lien on the road by its very
terms.' It is manifest, therefore, ifthere was nothing else
in the case, that an interest In and right to the use of the
rolling stock became vested in the defendant, the St. Paul's
Company, by the foreclosure of this mortgage and purchase,
under which it acquired title to the Western Division.
It is insisted, however, that the right and title to this rolling stock were adjudicated to the Eastern Division by the
court in the foreclosure suit, which opinion was entertained
by a majority of the court as the case was presented in the
bill and admitted by the demurrer. The question comes

Dec. 1867.]

MINNESOTA CO. V. ST. tPAUL Co.

745

Opinion of the court.

before us now, however, in a different aspect, after answer,
replication, and proofs, and several matters which were stated
in the bill and admitted by the demurrer have been denied
and disproved by the proofs. One of these matters, namely,
the division of the rolling stock and assignment of the portion in question to the Eastern Division, has already been
referred to and explained. Another, and most material
matter, is the action of the court in the foreclosure suit, and
alleged adjudication of this stock in the same to the Eastern
Division, which is denied in the answer, and all the facts and
circumstances bearing upon the question, very fully presented in the proofs, and upon which, it is the opinion of a
majority of the court, that no such adjudication took place;
that, on the contrary, the order of sale in the foreclosure suit
included this rolling stock; also the 4dvertisement of the
marshal, his report of the sale, and the confirmation of the
same. It is true that there is some obscurity in one or two
of the preliminary orders in the foreclosure proceedings;
but we think they have been explained by the proofs in the
case, and the more full examination of all the orders made
therein by the court. An instance is the order of the court,
May 7th, 1863, soon after the order of confirmation of the
sale, which was supposed to indicate the understanding of
the court according to the interpretation of the complainant.
It now appears that it was not intended as a final order, but
temporary, providing for the custody of the property during
the time allowed the Minnesota Company to prepare an answer to resist the application by the St. Paul Company for
the possession of this rolling stock. The final order was not
made till the 12th of June, in which this rolling stock was
ordered to be delivered to the St. Paul Company, subject to
other previous liens on the' same; and it now appears, also,
that no rolling stock was ever delivered under the order of
the 7th of May, but was delivered under that of the 12th
of June.
Our conclusion is, that the foreclosure of the mortgage of
the La Crosse and Milwaukee Company, of the 81st of December, 1856, to lBronson, Soutter. and Knapp, which in-

746

MINNESOTA

Co. V. ST. PAUL CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

eluded the rolling stock in question, a right to the use of
this stock on the road passed to the St. Paul Company under
the foreclosure and organization of the company in pursuance
thereof.
The decree of the court below must, therefore, be AFFIRMED.

It appears that a second supplemental bill was filed by the
complainant, the Minnesota Company, against the same defendant, setting up, among other things, a right to the rolling
stock in controversy in the first, and also a right, as against
the St. Paul Company, to compensation for the use of said
rolling stock running on the Western Division.
There are,also many allegations in the bill charging the
St. Paul Company with a breach of the original charter in
the construction of a road for the purpose of disconnecting
the Western from the Eastern Division, and interrupting a
through line from La Crosse to Milwaukee. It is quite apparent that the matters set forth in this bill are not the subject of a supplemental bill. The first supplemental bill set
up a claim to the rolling stock under the decree in the original
suit of foreclosure of the mortgage. The present bill is filled
with matters of complaint, which have occurred since the
original decree of foreclosure and sale, and which have no
necessary connection with that decree, such as a claim for
the use of the rolling stock, the right to which was in litigation in the first supplemental bill, and in respect to which
no right could be set up for the use of it until the title had
been determined in its favor; and, as it respects the portion
of the bill relating to the violation of the charter, and attempt to divert the travel and interrupt the through line in
running the road, the matter could have no possible connection with the original bill or' decree, of which this is
claimed as supplemental. The decree below was, therefore,
right in dismissing the bill.
DECREE AFFIRMED;

CASE REMANDED TO COURT BELOW.

The cross-bill, also, to the first supplemental bill, which

Dec. 1867.]

FLEMING V.

SOUTTER.

Opinion of the court.

was founded on a second mortgage given by the La Crosse
and Milwaukee Company to Bronson, Soutter, and Knapp,
which was in the nature of a further assurance concerning
the rolling stock, vas properly dismissed. As the effect of
dismissing the supplemental bill was to affirm the right of
the St. Paul Company to the use of the rolling stock on the
Western Division on the ground it was covered by the first
mortgage, and which we have affirmed, the cross-bill was
useless and of no effect.
DECREE AFFIRMED; CAUSE REMANDED TO COURT BELOW.

In the first of these two appeals, Mr. Justice MILLER
dissented.

FLEMING V.

SOUTTER.

Where a decree of foreclosure and sale for default in payment of an amount
due>,contained a clause authorizing the complainants on petition to have
an order of sale in case of default as to any future instalment, successive orders of sale upon such summary proceeding by petition are regular and sufficient.

in three decretal orders from the Circuit Court
for Wisconsin.
APPEALS

Messrs. Cushing and Stark, for the appellants; Messrs. Cary
and Carlisle, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON stated the facts and delivered the
opinion of the court.
These are appeals from decretal orders made in the case
of Soutter, survivor, &c., v. The La Crosse and Milwaukee
Railroad Company and others. That suit was instituted for
the foreclosure of a mortgage on the Eastern Division of the
road of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Company, and a decree had been entered in the Circuit Court in pursuance of
a mandate from this court, in which it was directed that the

