Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. IIAtTWELL.

385

Syllabus.

unless it is further shown by the record that it did arise, and
was applied by the State court to the case."
It is insisted that inasmuch as the authority of the State
court rests solely on the State statute, the validity of that
statute was necessarily a point in its judgment, but it would
contradict the experience of all who are familiar with courts
to assume that every time a court acts under a statute, the
validity of the statute or thejurisdiction of the court, receives
its consideration. This is rarely so, unless the question is
raised by one of the parties and called to the attention of
the court.
The presumption from this record is entirely the other
way. The defendant in his pleading admits impliedly the
jurisdiction of the court, the validity of the statute, and the
existence of the lien. He only denies that the full amount
claimed is due, and no other question is raised or suggested
by the bill of exceptions. Nor does it appear that any other
question was raised in the Supreme Court of the State than
that which was considered by the inferior court. There was,
therefore, no occasion for the court to consider the question
raised here by counsel.
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED.

UNITED STATES

u.

HARTWELL.

1. An office is a public station or employment, conferred by the appointment
of government; and embraces the ideas of tenure, duration, emolument,
and duties.
Accordingly, a person in the public service of the United States appointed
pursuant to statute authorizing an Assistant Treasurer of the United
States to appoint a clerk, with a salary prescribed, whose tenure of place
will not be affected by the vacation of office by his superior, and whose
duties (though such as his superior in office should prescribe), are continuing and permanent-is an officer within the meaning of the SubTreasury Act of August 6th, 1846 (9 Stat. at Large, 59), and, as such,
subject to the penalties prescribed in it for the misconduct of officers.
2. The terms employed in the sixteenth aection of that act to designate the
persons made liable under it, are not restrained and limited to principal.
officers.
25
voL. vi.

UNITED STATES V.

HIARTWELL.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
3. The admitted rule that penal statutes are to be strictly construed, is net
violated by allowing their words to have full meaning, or even the more
extended of two meanings, where such construction best harmonizes
with ttke context, and most fully promotes the policy and objects of the
legislature.
4. The penal sancLions of the third section of the act of June 14th, 1866, "to
regulate and secure the safe-keeping of public money," &c. (14 Stat. at
Large, 65), is confined to officers of banks dnd banking associations.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges

of the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
The defendant was indicted in that court at Boston, for
embezzlement. The indictment contained ten counts. The
first three wel:e founded upon the sixteenth section of the
act of August 6th, 1846, known as the Sub-Treasury Act.*
This act in its fifth section provides for the appointment of
"four officers," to be denominated assistant treasurers, at
Boston and three other places named. It had already in a
third section-after referring to certain buildings, rooms and
safes in 12ew York and Boston which bad by a prior act been
ordered to be prepared for other persons described-enacted,
that "the assistant treasurers from time to time appointed
at those points, shall have the custody and care of the said
rooms, vaults and safes respectively, and of all the moneys
deposited within the same, and shall perform all the duties
required to be performed by them in reference to the receipt,
safe-keeping, transfer and disbursement of all moneys according to the provisions of this act." Sections seven and
eight provide for bonds, with sufficient surety, from assistant
treasurers as often as the Secretary of the Treasury may require, and in sums as large as lie may deem proper.
The sixth section declares that the "Treasurer of the
United States," "Treasurer of the Mint," and "all assistant
treasurers," &c., &o., "and all public officers of whatever
grade, be, and they are hereby, required to keep safely, without loaning, using, depositing in banks, or exchanging for
other funds than as allowed by this act, all public money
collected by them, or otherwise at any time placed in their pos* 9 Stat. at Large, 59.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. HARTWELL.

387

Statement of the case.

session and custody, till the same is ordered by the proper department or officer of the govern/nent to be transferred or
paid out."
The thirteenth section provides that "the said officers,
whose duty it is made by this act to receive, keep and disburse the public moneys, as thefiseal agents of the government,
may be allowed any necessary additional expenses for clerks,
fire-proof chests or vaults, or other necessary expense. of safekeeping, transferring and disbursing said moneys," &e.
The sixteenth section-a long section, and the one on
which the first three counts were founded-ran, in its important parts, as fbllows:
"That all officers and other persons charged by this act or any
other act with the safe-keeping, transfer and disbursement of
the public moneys, are hereby required to keep an accurate entry
of each sum received, and of each payment or transfer; and that
if any one of the said officers shall loan any portion of the public
moneys intrusted to him for safe-keeping, every such act shall
be deemed an embezzlement; and if' any officer charged with the
disbursement of public moneys shall transmit to the Treasury
Department to be allowed in his favor any receipt or voucher
from a creditor of the United States, without having paid to such
creditor in such funds as he may have received for disbursement
the full amount specified in the same, every such act shall be
deemed a conversion by such officer to his own use of the amount
specified in such voucher; and any officer or agent of the United
States, and all persons advising or participating in such act, being
convicted thereof before any court of competent jurisdiction,
shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not less than six
months, nor more than ten years, and to a fine equal to the
amount of the money so embezzled. And upon the trial of any indictment against any person for embezzling public money under
the provisions of this act, it shall be sufficient to produce a transcript, &c., as required in civil cases under the provisions of the
act entitled, ' An act to provide,' &c., approved March 3d, 1797;
and the provisions of this act shall be so construed as to apply
to all persons charged with the safe-keeping, transfer or disbursement
of public money, whether such persons be indicted as receivers or
depositaries of the same," &c.

UNITED STATES V.

tARTWELL.

[Sup. (Ot.

Statement of the case.

So far as respects the act of 1846, on which the first three
counts were founded.
The act of 1866" (June 14th), upon the third sbction of
which the remaining seven counts of the indictment were
founded, runs, in that section, thus:
"If any banker, broker, or any person, not an authorized depositary of public moneys, shall knowingly receive from any
disbursing officer, or collector of internal revenue, or other agent
of the United States, any public money on deposit or by way of
loan or accommodation, with or without interest, or otherwise
than in payment of a debt against the United States, or shall
use, transfer, convert, appropriate or apply any portion of the
public money for any purpose not prescribed by law, or shall
counsel, aid or abet any disbursing officer or collector of internal
revenue or other agent of the United States in so doing, every
such act shall be deemed and adjudged an embezzlement of the
money so deposited, loaned, transferred, used, converted, appropriated, or applied; [and any president, cashier,teller, director, or
other officer of any bank or banking associationwho shall violate any
of the provisions of this act shall be deemed and adjudged guilty of
embezzlement of public money,] and punished as provided in section
two of this act."
It was admitted that the defendant was not a president or
other officer of a bank.
The counts upon the act of 1846 Alleged that the defendant, being an officer of the United States, to wit, a clerk in the
office of the assistant treasurer of the United States, at Boston, appointed by the assistant treasurer, with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury, and as such charged
with the safe-keeping of the public moneys of the United States,
did loan a large amount of said mone'ys with the safe-keeping whereof he was intrusted in his capacity aforesaid. The
names of the borrowers, and the amount and description of
the moneys loaned, were set forth.
The succeeding counts-those namely on the act of 1866* 14 Stat. at Large, 65.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. HARtTWELL.

88

Argument for the United States.

alleged that the defendant, being a person, not an authorized
depositary of the public moneys of the United States, to wit,
a clerk in the office of the assistant treasurer of the United
States, at Boston, appointed by him, with the approbation
of the Secretary of the Treasury, khing the care and subject to
the duty to keep safely the public moneys of Mhe United States, did
knowingly and unlawfuliy appropriate and apply another
portion of said public moneys, of which he had the care, and
was subject to the duty safely to keep as aforesaid, for a purpose not prescribed by law, to wit, did loan the same. The
particulars with reference to the loans were given as in the
preceding counts.
The indictment averred the appointment of the defendant
under the General Appropriation Act of July 23d, 1866,
which authorized the assistant treasurer at Boston, with the
approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury, to appoint a
clerk at a salary of $2500.
The testimony being closed, the opinions of the judges
were opposed upon the points:
(1) Whether the defendant was liable to indictment under
the sixteenth section of the act of August 6th, 1846; and
(2) Whether there is any offence charged in the last seven
counts under the third section of the act of June 14th, 1866,
of which the court had jurisdiction.
Mr.Stanbery, A. G., and 31r. Asdon, special counsel for the
United Slates:
1. As to thefirst question certified. No doubt the act of 1846
is applicable to officers alone, or to those charged with safe-

keeping, transfer or disbursement of the public moneys.,
But the clerkship, in this case, is clearly an office. The
duties are not temporary, but permanent. The person who
fills the place does not act under contract, but under official
obligation, and the office remains although the incumbent
may die or resign. He does not stand in the relation of a
deputy with a tenure of office depending on the principal
who appointed him; but he remains in office notwithstanding bis principal may retire. It is not possible to hold that

390'

UNITED STATES V. HAl fWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant.

such a clerkship is not an office, or that the incumbent is
not an officer, unless it be held that he has not been legally
clothed with the official duties, that he has not been legally
appointed to such office.* The statute which provides for
the office, authorizes the assistant treasurer to appoint to the
office with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury.
2. As to the second question. Of course, if such a construction is put upon the third section of the act of June 14th,
'1866 (on which the question arises), as limits its operation to
bank officers, then the question certified must be answered
in the negative. Othaerwise, it must be answered in the affirmative. The section is very loosely drawn, and, as to
grammatical construction, is subject to criticism. The confusion arises from the awkward introduction of a clause near
the end of it.t If we read the section without that clause,
or read it parenthetically, there will be no confusion. But

this is mere verbal criticism.

When we inquire what is the

intent of this section ; whether that intent is merely to punish bank officers, or to punish them and a larger class be-

sides, there can be no difficulty in giving the answer.
Messrs. IT 1V Paine and 1B. .I. Morse, contra:
1. Was the defendant an officer or person "charged with the
safe-keeping of the public money" "within the intent of the act of
1846? We submit that he was not.
Penal statutes are confessedly to be construed with strictness, and from an examination of all the sections of the

statute of 1846, it appears that the assistant treasurer alone
is designated as an "officer," while watchmen, messengers,.
clerics and fire-proof safes are classed together among the
necessary expenses, which the assistant treasurer, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, is authorized to
No specific duties
incur. The defendant was a "clerk."
.* United States v. Maurice, 2 Brockenbrough, 103; Same v. Sears, 1 Gallison, 221; Same v. Bachelder, 2 Id. 15; Sanford v. Boyd, 2 Cranch's Circuit Court, 78; Ex parte Smith, Id. 693; Jackson v. Healy, 20 Johnson, 495;
Vaughn v. English, 8 California, 39.
t"Italicized, and within brackets, in the statement of the case.-REP.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. HARTWELL.

891

Opinion of the court.

are imposed upon the clerk; he gives no bond to the gov.
eminent; he is merely a subordinate and assistant to the
officer, and performs such service as he directs. The terms
of the sixteenth section thus apply to principal officers alone;
not to subordinates appointed by them. The cases cited on
the other side, if applicable, are mostly nisi prius rulings;
no "authority" with this court. United States v. Hutchinson* is directly opposed to them.
2. As to the second question. Is any penalty provided in
the act of 1866 for the offence with which the defendant is
charged, in the last seven counts of the indictment?
Ve
think that there is not, and therefore that the court has no
jurisdiction of the case. If, indeed, the act were changed
as Mr. Attorney would alter it, parts left out or read parenthetically, the indictment might possibly be sustained. But
this court has recently saidt that it cannot amend or modify
any legislative acts. It cannot examine questions as expedient or inexpedient, as politic or impolitic. It is unnecessary to speculate on the reasons which led Congress to omit
to affix a penalty to the acts charged upon the defendant.
It may have been that they believed that there was some
general statute punishing embezzlement, or that it was punishable at common law, and specified the particular penalties in the act for the particularly serious cases of embezzlement therein stated.
Whatever may have been the reason, it is clear upon the
well-established principles of construction, that they omitted
to affix a penalty.
IMr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us upon a certificate of division in
opinion of the judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.
A 's disclosed in the record the case is as follows:
The defendant was indicted for embezzlement. The in* District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania, 7 Pennsylvania Law
Journal, June, 1848, p. 365.
t License Tax Cases, 5 Wallace, 469.

392

UNITED STATES t*. HIARTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

dictment contains ten counts. The first three are founded
upon the sixteenth pection of the act of August 6tb, 1846,
the remaining seven upon the third section of the act of
June 14th, 1866.
. The counts upon the act of 1846 allege that the defendant, being an officer of the United States, to wit, a clerk in
the office of the assistant treasurer of the United States, at
Boston, appointed by the assistant treasurer with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury, and as such charged
with the safe-keeping of the public moneys of the United
States, did loan a large amount of said moneys, with the
safe-keeping whereof he was intrusted in his capacity aforesaid. The names of the borrowers, and the amount and
description of, the moneys loaned, are set forth.
The succeeding counts allege that the defendant, being a
person, not an authorized depositary of the public moneys
of the United States, to wit, a clerk in the office of the assistant treasurer of the United States, at Boston, appointed
by him with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury, having the care and subject to the duty, to keep safely
the public moneys of the United States, did knowingly and
unlawfully appropriate and apply another portion of said
public moneys, of which he had the care, and was subject
to the duty, safely to keep as aforesaid, for a purpose not
prescribed by law, to wit, did loan the same. The particulars with reference to the loans are given as in the preceding counts.
The testimony being closed, the opinions of the judges
were opposed upon the points:
1. Whether the defendant was liable to indictment under
the sixteenth section of the act of August 6th, 1846; and
2. Whether there is any offence charged in the last seven
counts under the third section of the act of June 14th, 1866,
of which the court had jurisdiction.
The section referred to in the act of 1846 describes in
three places the persons intended to be brought within its
scope. The language used in that connection is:
"All officers and other persons charged by this act, or any

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES

V.

HARTWELL.

893

Opinion of the court.

other act, with the safe-keeping, transfer and disbursement
of the public money, are hereby required," &c.
"If any officer charged with the disbursement of the public moneys shall accept or receive," &c.
"The provisions of this act shall be so construed as to apply to all persons charged with the safe-keeping, transfer or
disbursement of the public money, whether such persons be
indicted as receivers or depositaries of the same."
Was the defendant an officer or person "charged with the
safe-keeping of the public money" within the meaning of
the act? We think he was both.
He was a public officer. The General Appropriation Act
of July 23d, 1866,* authorized the assistant treasurer, at
Boston, with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury, to appoint a specified number of clerks, who were to
receive, respectively, the salaries thereby prescribed. The
indictment avers the appointment of the defendant in the
manner provided in the act.
An office is a public station, or employment, conferred by
the appointment of government. The term embraces the
ideas of tenure, duration, emolument, and duties.
The employment of the defendant was in the public ser
vice of the United States. He was appointed pursuant to
law, and his compensation was fixed by law. Vacating the
office of his superior would not have affected the tenure of
his place. His duties were continuing and permanent, not
occasional or temporary. They were to be such as his superior in office should prescribe.
A government office is different from a government contract. The latter from its nature is necessarily limited in its
duration and specific in its objects. The terms agreed upon
define the rights and obligations of both parties, and neither
may depart from them without the assent of the other.t
The defendant was appointed by the head of a depart* 14 Stat. at Large, 200.
f United States v Maurice, 2 Brockenbrough, 103; Jackson v. Healy,
20 Johnsorn, 493; Vaughn v. English, 8 California, 39; Sanford v. Boyd, 2
(Cranch's Circuit Court, 78; Ex parte Smith, Id. 693.

UNITED STATES V. IIARTWELL.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

ment within the meaning of the constitutional provision
upon the subject of the appointing power.*
The sixth section of the act of 1846, after naming certain
public officers specifically, proceeds:
"And all public officers, of whatever grade, be, and they
are hereby required to keep safely, without loaning, using,
depositing in banks, or exchanging for other funds than as
allowed by this act, all .public money collected by them, or
otherwise at any time placed in their possession and custody, till
the same is ordered by the proper department or officer of
the government to be transferred or paid out."
This clearly embraces the class of subordinate officers to
which the defendant belonged.
We are also of the opinion that the act prescribes punishment for the offence with which the defendant is charged.
The first part of the sixteenth section declares, that if any
officer to whom it applies shall convert to his own use, loan,
deposit in bank, or exchange for other funds, except as permitted by the act, any of the public money intrusted to him,
"every such act shall be deemed and adjudged to be an embezzlement," and is made a felony.
It next enacts that if any officer charged with the disbursement of public moneys shall take a false voucher,
"every such act shall be a conversion to his own use of the
amount specified" in such voucher.
This clause then follows: "And any officer or agent of
the United States, and all persons participating in such act,
being convicted thereof before any court of the United
States of competent jurisdiction, shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than six months nor more
than ten years, and to a fine equal to the amount of the
money embezzled.".
This clause is to be taken distributively. It applies, and
was clearly intended to apply, to all the acts of embezzlement specified in the section-to those relating to moneys,
in the first category, as well as to those relating to vouchers
* Const., Art. II,

2.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V.

HARTWELL.

895

Opinion of the court.

in the second. The context of the section and the language
of the clause both sustain this view of the subject. If this
be not the proper construction, then the consequence would
follow that in this elaborate section, obviously intended to
cover the whole ground of frauds by receivers, custodians,
and disbursers of the public moneys, of every grade of office,
punishment is provided for only one of the offences which the
act designates. There is no principle, which, properly applied, requires or would warrant such a conclusion.
It is urged that the terms used in the sixteenth section to
designate the persons made liable under it, are restrained
and limited to principal officers, by requirements and provisions which are applicable to them, and are inapplicable
to all those holding subordinate places under them. To this
there are several answers. We think the only effect of these
provisions is to operate, according to their terms, where
such higher officers are concerned. They are without effect
as to the subordinates, to whom they are iMapplicable. They
do not take offenders of that class out of the penal and
other provisions of the statute, which must be conceded
otherwise to embrace them. The broad language of the
provision in the preceding sixth section, which has been
referred to, is coupled with no qualification whatever, expressed or implied.
If the subordinates are not within the act, there is no
provision in the laws of the United States for their punishment in such cases. So far as those laws are concerned
they may commit any of the crimes specified with impunity.
We think it clear that it was not the intention of Congress
to leave an omission so wide and important in the act, and
our minds have been brought satisfactorily to the conclusion
that they have not done so.
We are not unmindful that penal laws are to be construed
strictly. It is said that this rule is almost as old as construction itself. But whenever invoked it comes attended
with qualifications and other rules no less important. It is
by the light which each contributes that the judgment of
the court is to be made up. The object in construing penal,

UNITED STATES V.

ARITWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as well as other statutes, is to ascertain the legislative intent.
That constitutes the law. If the language be clear it is conclusive. There can be no construction where there is nothing to construe. The words must not be narrowed to the
exclusion of what the legislature intended to embrace; but
that intention must be gathered from the words, and they
must be such as to leave no room for a reasonable doubt
upon the subject. It must not be defeated by a forced and
over-strict construction. The rule does not exclude the application of common sense to the terms made use of in the
act in order to avoid an absurdity, which the legislature
ought not to be presumed to have intended. When the
words are general and include various classes of persons,
there is no authority which would justify a court in restricting them to one class and excluding others, where the purpose of the statute is alike applicable to all. The proper
course in all cases is to adopt that sense of the words which
best harmonizes with the context, and promotes in the fullest
manner the policy and objects of the legislature. The rule
of strict construction is not violated by permitting the words
of the statute to have their full meaning, or the more extended of two meanings, as the wider popular instead of the
more narrow technical one; but the words should be taken
in such a sense, bent neither one way nor the other, as will
,best manifest the legislative intent.*
We think we have not transcended these principles in
coming to the conclusions we have announced.
The -determination of the second question certified de
pends upon the construction of the third section of the act
to which it refers.
That section provides, "that if any banker, broker, or
other person not an authorized depositary of the public
moneys," shall do either of the acts therein specified, every
such act shall be held to be an embezzlement.
* United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheaton, 96; Same v. Morris, 14 Peters,
475; Same v. Winn, 3 Sumner, 211 ; 1 Bishop's Criminal Law, 123; Ba.
con's Abridgm nt, tit. Statute I.

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. HARTWELL.

897

Opinion of Miller, Grier, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

The penal sanction with which the section concludes is as
follows: "And any president, cashier, teller, director, or
other officer of any bank or banking association, who shall
violate any of the provisions of this act, shall be deemed
and adjudged guilty of an embezzlement of public money,
and punished as provided in section two of this act."
This clause is limited in its terms to the officers named in
it. There is nothing which extends it beyond them. It
cannot, by construction, be made to include any others. It
is confined to officers of banks and banking associations.
The defendant is not brought within the act by the averments contained in the counts of the indictment, which are
founded upon it. They describe him only as a clerk in the
office of the assistant treasurer, at Bostofi. As such, the act
does not affect him, and the court has no jurisdiction of the
offences charged. These counts are, therefore, fatally defective.
The first point certified up will be answered in the affirmative and the second in the negative.
ANSWERs AcOORDINGLY.

M r. Justice MILLER, dissenting. Mr. Justice Grier, Mr.
Justice Field, and myself, being unable to concur with the
majority of the court in the answer given to the first of the
questions certified to us, I proceed to state the reasons for
our dissent.
The question is thus stated in the certificate from the Circuit Court: Is the defendant liable to indictment under the
sixteenth section of the act of Congress of August 6th, 1846?
The statute here referred to is that commonly known as
the Sub-Treasury Act, establishing a system for the safe-keeping, transfer and disbursement of the public moneys. The
sixteenth section commences by providing, "that all officers
and other persons charged by this act, or by any other act,
with the safe-keeping, transfer and disbursement of the
public moneys, other than those connected with the Postoffice Department, are hereby required to keep an accurate
entry of each sum received, and of each payment or trans-

UNITED STATES V. HARTWELL.

[8up. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, Grier, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

fer," and certain uses of those moneys by such officers are
then defined, each of which shall constitute an act of embezzlement, and shall be a felony. It is then declared that
when any officer shall pay out other funds than such as he
has received, such payment shall be held to be a conversion
to his own use of the amount specified in the receipt or
voucher which he may take at the time. Then follows this
language: "And any officer or agent of the United States,
and all persons advising or participating in such act, being
convicted thereof before any court of competent jurisdiction,
shall-be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not less than
six months nor more than ten years, and to a fine equal to
the amount of money so embezzled."
What we have here attempted to state is all contained in
a single sentence, very loosely drawn, leaving it extremely
doubtful whether the punishment prescribed in the words
last quoted is intended to apply to any other act than the
conversion mentioned in the clause just preceding them.
There are also other provisions in the same section which
we will notice hereafter; but the first inquiry that arises is,
whether the defendant stands in such relation to the custody
of the public moneys that he is liable to be punished under
this statute.
It is conceded by the Attorney-General, we think very
properly, that the act is only applicable to officers or other
persons charged by law with the safe-keeping, transfer or
disbursement of the public moneys. It may be also conceded that the defendant's position as clerk is an office provided for by the statute, the salary of which is also fixed by
a subsequent act of Congress. The section of the. act of
1846, which we are now considering, in describing the class
of persons who may become guilty of embezzlement, speaks
of them as "officers and other persons- charged, by this act,
or any other act, with the safe-keeping, transfer and disbursement of the public moneys." Admitting that the words
"safe-keeping, transfer, and disbursement," are to be taken
distributively, and that one charged with either of those
duties may become liable under the statute, the question

Dec. :1867.]

UNITED STATES V. "IARTWELL.

Opinion of Miller, Grier, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

still remains, Is a clerk in the office of the assistant treasurer,
charged by this act, or any other act of Congress, with either
of those duties? It is not sufficient that he may, by order
of the assistant treasurer, by whom he is appointed, be placed
in such a position that it is his moral duty to safely keep or
to disburse the public money. If reliance is placed upon
the language just cited, this duty must be imposed on him
by some act of Congress.
This unavoidable construction of the act is not a mere
technical adherence to its verbiage, but is founded in obvious
consistency with the other provisions of the statute.
The clerks in the office of the assistant treasurer are, by
the terms of this act, appointed by him alone, although by
an act passed long since, and which can have no effect on
the construction of this one, the assent of the Secretary of
the Treasury is required. But they still derive their appointment from the assistant treasurer, and are removable at his
pleasure. Their duties are prescribed by him, and he assigns each clerk to the performance of such functions as he
may think proper. No act of Congress, nor any other law,
confers upon these clerks any power or control over the
public money. If they exercise such control, they get it
from the assistant treasurer alone. They give no bond to
the government, but the assistant treasurer may require
them to indemnify him by bond, as is the rule in many large
establishments. Their direct responsibility is to him.
On the other hand, the assistant treasurer is the person,
and the only person in his office, charged by act of Congress
with the custody or control of the public moneys. The third
section of the act, after describing the buildings, rooms and
safes in New York and Boston, in which the money is to be
kept, says that "the assistant treasurers from time to time
appointed at those points, shall have the custody and care
of the said rooms, vaults and safes respectively, and of all
the moneys deposited within the same, and shall perform all
the duties required to be performed by them in reference to
the receipt, safe-keeping, transfer and disbursement of all
moneys according to the provisions of this act." To secure

UNITED STATES

v.

HARTWELL.

[Sup. Ci:

Opinion of Miller, Grier, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

the performance of the duties thus imposed, sections seven
and eight provide for bonds, with sufficient surety, as often
as the Secretary of the Treasury may require, and in sums
as large as he may deem proper.
The assistant treasurers are not, however, the only officers
charged by the act with the safe-keeping, transfer or disbursement of the public moneys, and we are referred to section six for an enumeration of the classes of persons thus
charged. By that section it is enacted "that the Treasurer
of the United States, the treasurer of the mint of the United
States, the treasurers and those acting as such of the various
branch mints, all collectors of customs, all survey6rs of customs acting also as collectors, all assistant treasurers, all
receivers of public moneys at the several land offices, all
postmasters, and all public officers of whatever character, be,
and they are hereby, required to keep safely, without loaning, using, or depositing in banks, or exchanging for other
funds than as allowed by this act, all the public moneys
collected by them, or otherwise at any time placed in their
possession and custody, till the same is ordered by the proper
department or officer of the government to be transferred or
paid'out."
All the classes of persons here specfieally described are
officers who are charged by some act of Congress with the
duty of collecting, receiving or holding public money. Was
the general phrase, "all public officers of whatever character," intended to include only other public officers charged
by law with the custody of public money, or was it intended
to include any clerk, or other employ6 of such officer, who
might, by his permission or order, have the occasional custody
of the money under that officer's supervision or control?
We think the latter would be a loose and unjustifiable
construction, at variance with the spirit of the context, and
with the rules of construing penal statutes. The word publie, usdd here as qualifying the word officer, is not without
significance, as indicating officers whose duties are fixed by
public law and not by the individual discretion of their employers. Undoubtedly there are other public officers, rot in

Dec. 1867.]

UNITED STATES V. HIARTWELL.

Opinion of Miller, Grier, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

the list of those specifically mentioned in this section, who
by law are charged with the collection, holding and paying
out of public moneys. Among those which occur readily
to the mind are marshals, district attorneys, commissaries,
quartermasters, paymasters. Many others of the same class
could probably be enumerated. It seems to us that the
phrase is used to include all such officers. Persons whose
duties are prescribed by statute, who are directly and primarily liable to the government, who give bond for the safety
of the money in their hands, and not to subordinate clerks
whom they may employ.
In fuct, looking to the general tenor of the act as well as
to its most minute provisions, we are impressed with the
conviction that they apply exclusively to the legal custodians
of the public money and not to their clerks. In a clause of
this sixteenth section, intended to include in the most sweeping terms all who are liable to its denunciations, they are
described as "all who are charged with the safe-keeping,
transfer and disbursement of the public money, whether
such person be indicted as receiver or depositary." The
Treasurer of the United States, the assistant treasurers, and
the treasurers of the mint and branch mints, are by the act
called depositaries. All the other officers so charged are
persons who receive or collect public money, but not being
authorized to hold it, pay over to these depositaries. It is
strongly implied by this section that to be liable to indictment the person must belong to one or the other of these
classes. All those mentioned in the statute as coming within
its provision are required to keep and transmit to the proper
department correct accounts. A false voucher is mnade a
felony. A treasury transcript showing a balance against
such officer or agent is made evidence of money, for which
he is liable. A draft on one of them not paid on presentation is primafacie evidence 6f embezzlement. None of these
provisions can apply to clerks, who have no such accounts
with the government, against whom no treasury balance can
be shown, who have no vouchers to return, and against whom
no drafts are ever drawn.
VOL. vi.

26

STARK V. STARRS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

We think the defendant is not liable to indictment undei
that statute.

STARK V. STARRS.
1. Under the statute of Oregon which provides, that any person in possession of real property may maintain a suit in equity against another, who
claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such claim, estate, or interest, a bill will not lie on a possession without some.right, legal or equitable, first shown.
2. Under the act of Congress, of September 27th, 1850, "to create the
office of surveyor-general of the public lands of Oregon" (the act commonly known as "The Oregon Donation Act," and stated fully in the
case), the right of the claimant to a patent became perfected when the
certificate of the surveyor-general, and accompanying proofs, were received by the commissioner of the general land office, and he found no
valid objection thereto.
3. The act of August 14th, 1848, organizing the Territory of Oregon, which
declared that all laws of the United States should be in force in the
Territory, " sofar as the same, or any provision thereof, may be applicable," did not extend over the country any portion either of the general
Pre-emption Act of September, 1841, or of the act of May 23d, 1844,
commonly known as the "Town Site Act."
4. The right to a patent once vested is equivalent, as respects the government dealing with the public lands, to a patent issued. When issued,
the patent, so far as may be necessary to cut off intervening claimants,
relates back to the inception of the right of the patentee.
5. A patent issued to the. corporate authorities of the city of Portland, in
Oregon, in December, 1860, upon an entry made under the Town Site
Act of May 23d, 1844, passed no title to the land covered by the donation claim of a person whose right to a patent was perfected previously
to such entry, and whose claim was surveyed previously to the act of
July 17tb, 1854; by which the Town Site Act was extended, though
with qualifications, to Oregon Territory.

to the Supreme Court of Oregon.
A. and L. Starr, asserting themselves to be owners in possession of certain parcels of land in. the city of Portland, Oregon, and derived by title from that city, filed a bill in equity
in one of the State courts of Oregon, to quiet their title to
the land against an ownership set up to it by one Stark, and
to have a patent for it which had issued to Stark surren.
ERROR

