REICHART

v.

FrLPS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

so; for couits of equity must be able to act in a summary
manner upon motions of this kind, and any other mode of
investigation than the one adopted in this case, would have
failed to give the speedy relief necessary under the circumstances. The practice pursued by the court was the usual
and proper practice, and we see no good reasons to depart
from it.
-

REICHART

v.

DECREE AFFIRMED.

FELPS.

1. A decision in the highekt court of a State against the validity of a pate.*
granted by the United States for land, and whose validity is drawn in
question in such court, is a decision against the validity of an authority
exercised under the United States, and the subject of re-examination
here, although the other side have also set up as their case a similax
authority whose validity is by the same decision affirmed.
2. Patents by the United States for land which it has previously granted,
reserved from sale, or appropriated, are void.
8. A patent or instrument of confirmation by an officer authorized by Congress to make it, followed by a survey of the land described in the instrument, is conclusive evidence that the land described and surveyed
was reserved from sale.
4. Where the United States, receiving a cession of lands claimed in ancient
times by France, and on which were numerous French settlers, directed
that such settlers should be "confirmed" in their "possessions and
rights," and ordered a particular public officer to examine into the
matter, &c.,-confirmation by deed was not necessary. The officer,
being admitted to have authority to make confirmation, could make it
by instrument in writing without seal.
5. Congress has no power to organize a board of revision to annul titles
confirmed many years by the authorized agents of the government.

EIRoI to the Supreme Court of Illinois; the case, which
was one of ejectment, being thus:
In 1784, after the War of the Revolution, the State of
Virginia then claiming the Northwest Territory, a part of
which makes the now State of Illinois-and in which, from
early times, inhabitants of Canada, while Canada was yet a
French province, had settled-yielded her claim and title in
the territory to the United States, on condition "that the

Dec. 1867.]

IREICHART v. FELPS.

Statement of the case.

French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers of the
Kaskaskias, St. Vincent's, and the neighboring villages, who
have professed themselves citizens of Virginia, shall have
their possessions and lilies confirmed to them, and be protected
in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties."
On the 20th of June, 1788, Congress enacted, that from
any general sale of lands in this region there should be a
reserve of so much land as should satisfy all the just claims
of the ancient settlers; "that they should be confirmed in
the possession of such lands as they may have had at the
beginning of the Revolution; that measures be immediately
taken for confirming them in their possessions and titles,
and that the governor of the Northwestern Territory be instructed to examine the titles and possessions ofthe settlers,
as above described, in order to determine what quantity of
land they may severally claim, which shall be laid off for them

at their own expense."
Under this authority, and some instructions not necessary
to be mentioned, but reciting them all, the then governor
of the Northwestern Territory, General St. Clair, on the
12th of February, 1799, issued a document, somewhat in the
form of a land-patent, to one Jarrot, who "laid claim" to a
piece of land in the county then and now known as St. Clair,
Illinois, "confirming" to him in *fee a tract described.
This instrument of confirmation, signed by General St. Clair,
and duly registered, October 19th, 1804, ended thus:
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and
caused the seal of the Territory to be affixed, at Cincinnati, &e., on

the 12th day of February, A.D. 1799, and of the Independence
of the United States the 23d."
The land claimed and thus described in the patent was
regularly surveyed, April 10th, 1798, by one McCann, "lawfully authorized to survey such claims."
This title of Jarrot, thus confirmed, became afterwards
vested in one Felps.
But an opposing title also came into existence. On the
20th of February, 1812, an act of Congress was passed,
VOL. VI.

11

REICHART V. FELPS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

authorizing a board of commissioners to revise and reexamine the confirmations made by the governor of the
Northwestern Territory; and the board, in pursuance of the
act, mIde such a report to the government of the United
States, that the government by its proper officers rejected
this claim, and subsequently exposed the land previously.
confirmed to Jarrot to public sale, when a certain Reichart
became the purchaser. Two patents were accordingly issued
to him by the United States, one in 1838 and one in 1853.
Reichart, asserting the title conferred by these patents,
now brought ejectment in a State court of Illinois against
Felps, relying on his old French claim confirmed by Gov..
ernor St. Clair.
The plaintiff having given his patents of 1838 and 1853
in evidence, the defendant on his part offered the survey of
McCann, and a certified copy from the records of the instrument of confirmation given by Governor St. Clair. On this
certified copy no evidence appeared of a seal having ever
been on -the original; though there was oral testimony tending to show that the original did have a seal in wax, with
an emblem and letters.
The plaintiff objected to the survey, and to the copy of the
instrument from Governor St. Clair, because it showed that
the original had no seal.
The court overruled the exception, and gave judgment for
the defendant, so deciding against the validity of the patents
of the United States issued in 1838 and 1853; though deciding in effect in favor of the validity of the instrument of
confirmation professing to be done under authority of Congress. The judgment having been affirmed in the Supreme
Court of Illinois,> the ease was brought here under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, giving a right to the
court to re-examine the final judgments of the highest State
courts, "where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
or of an authority exercised under the United States, and
the decision is against their validity."
* Reichart v. Felps, 33 Illinois, 433.

Dec. 1867.]

R E1011ART v. FELPS.
Argument for the defendant in error.

M3r. Baker, for the plainiff in error; a brief being filed for
31r. Kownrner :
The deed of cession, of 1784, put the title into the United
States. There was no tract of which possession did not vest
in the United States. No power was given by any act of
Congress to the governors of the Northwestern Territory
to issue patents or deeds of confirmation. Moreover, whatever confirmations those governors did issue, were not considered final either by the Executive or by Congress. The
copy of the patent shows that no seal was ever affixed to the
instrument of confirmation. *The instrument was, therefore,
never executed, and is void. Oral testimony cannot counterYail the better evidence of the copy.
.31r. Lywan Trumbull, contra:
The validity of the confirmation or grant of Governor St.
Clair was brought before the Supreme Court of Illinois in
1829, in an ejeetment by one Hill, who had entered and obtained a patent for a portion of the premises as public land.
The court held the governor's confirmation valid.* After
this decision, the United States, recognizing it as establishing the validity of the grant by Governor St. Clair, passed
an act, August 11th, 1842, refunding the money paid by the
patentee who had entered it as public land.t
This history of the government's dealing with the land in
controversy, shows that it was reserved from the beginning
from the public lands which were to be sold, and that the
government never intended it should be sold as public land.
The patent issued by Governor St. Clair in 1799, devested
the United States of any claim it might have had to the land,
and its subsequent sale as public land was therefore void.
it is assumed by the plaintiff that no authority was given to
the governor of the Northwestern Territory to make confirmations or grants of these ancient possessions and titles.
But the act of June 20th, 1788, affords an answer to this
assumption; where it instructs the governor of the North* Doe ex dem Moore and others v. Hill, Breese, 236.
- 6 Stat. at Large, 860?

164

IEICHART

v.

FELPS.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the defendant in error.

western Territory to "examine the titles and possessions of
the settlers, in order to determine what quantity of land they may
severally claim, which shall be laid off for them at their own expense." Who was to determine the quantity of land the
claimants were to have, and to lay it off for them at their
own expense, except he whose duty it was to examine the
titles and possessions for that purpose? When this was
done, and the land laid off as the law declared it should be,
the United States gave up all claim, if it ever had any, to
the land thus set off. No other evidence of this would have
been necessary than the surveyfvhich was made and entered
upon the Land Office records; and the fact that the governor
thought proper to evidence the claimant's right by a more
solemn instrument, in the shape of a patent, is only coiiflrmatory of what would have been a good title without it. All
that was necessary to be done was to separate the private
claims from the other lands, so that the latter might be
brought into market. The United States never pretended
to make claim to the lands set off to private claimants; on
the contrary, it has, by numerous acts, as shown in the history of this case, recognized them as valid. The governors
exercised this power of confirmation for more than twenty
years, and their confirmations are styled patents in acts of
Congress.*.
A grant, or a concession, made by that officer who is by
law authorized to make it, carries with it pritmafacieevidence
that it is within his power. No excess of or departure from
them is to be presumed.t
The laud having been thus previously granted, reserved
from sale, or appropriated, the patents of 1838 and 1853 are
void.1
The objections taken below as to the want of seal, &c., it
is submitted, need no reply here.ยง The original patent, it is
testified, had a seal. None, however, was necessary.
Act of April 21, 1806. Pub. Land Laws, &c., part 1, 143.
t Delassus v. United States, 9 Peters, 134.
1 Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 317.
See what is said in Reichart v. Felps, the case below, 33 Illinois, 439.

Dec. 1867.]

IREICIIAIT

v.

YELPS.

Opinion of the court,

Mfr. Justice GRIE R delivered the opinion of the court.
The patents under which the plaintiff claimed in the State
court were declared by that court to be void. The case,
therefore, is properly cognizable in this court under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
He claimed under two patents of the dates of 1838 and
1853, which exhibit conclusive evidence of title if the land
claimed had "not been previously granted, reserved from
,9ale, or appropriated." The only question to be decided in
this case is, whether the land had been so granted, reserved,
or appropriated.
The patent of Governor St. Clair, February 12th, 1799,
duly registered in 1804, with the survey of McCann, April
10th, 1798, are conclusive evidence that the land in question
was reserved from sale. The case of .ifoore v. Bill,* decided
nearly forty years ago in the Supreme Court of Illinois, on
the same survey and grant which is now before us, should
have been conclusive against the objections which have been
revived on the present writ of error. "This very able and
elaborate opinion received the concurrence of the bar and
the country at the time it was delivered, and has never been
called in question since. There is no ftct in the present
case calculated to produce a result different from the one
there announced."t
The objection that the patent from the governor was without a seal ought not to have been made. The act of Congress
giving power to the governor did not require him to issue a
patent nor to execute an instrument under seal. Any written
evidence of his confirmation would have been a sufficient
execution of the power. All that was necessary was an
authentic declaration by the United States, through their
authorized agent, that they had no claim to the land. It
was not a grant by the United States, because the title was
not in them.
Congress is bound to ,regard the public treaties, and it had
Breese, 236.
,-Roichart v. Felps, 33 Illinois, 439, A. D. 1864, per Breese, J., who reported the case A. D. 1829.

RIGGS V. JOHNSON COUNTY.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

no power to organize a board of revision to nullify titles confirmed many years before by the authorized agents of the
government. And Congress became afterwards so well satisfied itself of this that it passed an act restoring to the purchasers the money which they had paid for titles obtained
on the assumption of such a right.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMIED

RIGGS V. JOINSON COUNTY.
A fter a return unsatisfied of an execution on a judgmentin the Circuit Court
against a county for interest on railroad bonds, issued under a State
statute in force prior to the issue of the bonds, and which made the levy
of a tax to pay such interest obligatory on the county, a mandamus from
the Circuit Court -will lie against the county officers to levy a tax, even
although prior to the application for the mandamus a State court have
perpetually enjoined the same officers against making such levy; the
mandamus, when so issued, being to be regarded as a writ necessary to
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court which had previously attached, and
to enforce its judgment; and the State court therefore not being to be
regarded as in prior possession of the case.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
The case somewhat fully stated was thus:
Statutes of Iowa enact:
That the county commissioners of any county may submit
to the people of it at any election, the question whether the
county will aid to construct any road which may call for extraordinary expenditure.
That when a question, so submitted, involves the borrowing
of money, the proposition of the question must be accompanied
by a provision to lay a tax for the payment thereof, in addition
to the usual taxes, and no vote adopting the question proposed will
be of effdct unless it adopt the tax also.
That the county judge, on being satisfied that the above requirements have been substantially complied-with, and that a
majority of the votes cast are in favor of the proposition submitted, shall cause certain records to be made; after which the
ERROR

