Dec. 1867.]

STATE OF GEORGIA V. GRANT.

241

Statement of the case.

one, and it will avoid the absurdity of allowing a party to
sue on a pretended cause of action, which is, in truth, no
cause of action at all, and then to recover on proof of a different demand."
Following these authorities, and giving the judgment recovered in Michigan the same effect and operation that it
would have in that State, we answer the question presented
in the certificate, that the exemplification of the record of
thejudgment recovered against the defendant, Elisha Eldred,
offered by the defendant, Anson Eldred, is not admissible
in evidence in bar of, and to defeat, a recovery against the
latter.

STATE OF GEORGIA V. GRANT.
Though there is no general rule of court in regard to the matter, yet where
a party desires to file a bill in original jurisdiction in equity, it has been
usual to hear a motion in his behalf for leave to do so. This motion,
except in peculiar circumstances (as where the bill asked to be filed was
against the President of the United States), is heard only on the part
of the complainant. Ten printed copies of the bill were in this case
ordered to be filed with the clerk.

Tais court having some time since dismissed a bill filed
by the State of Georgia against Mr. Stanton, Secretary ot

War, General Grant, and others, on the ground that it called
for a judgment on a question political in its nature,* Messrs.
Black aud Sharkey, in behalf of the same State, Asked leave to
file a bill by it against Generals Grant, Meade, and others;
it being stated that the bill was not open to objection from
the causes which it was decided made the one dismissed objectionable.
Mr. Carpenter,in behalf of the persons named as defendants,
desired to know whether it would be regular for him to op* See stupra, ante, p. 60.

VOL. V.

V)

242

THE SEA WITCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pose this motion for leave if he should, on seeing and considering the bill, desire to do so.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The court has adopted no rules governing suits in cases
of original jurisdiction. In cases of equity, however, it has
been the usual practice to hear a motion in behalf of the
complainant for leave to file the bill, and, leave having been
given, subsequent proceedings have been regulated by orders
made from time to time as occasion required. The motion
for leave has been usually heard ex parle; except at the Iasi
term, when leave was asked in behalf of the State of Mississippi to file a bill against the President of the United States.*
Under the peculiar circumstances of that case it was thought
proper that argument should be heard against the motion for
leave. We perceive no reason for making such an exception in the case of the present motion. It will be heard,
therefore, on the regular motion day, and only on the part
of the 'complainant; and the court will require that ten
printed copies of the bill be filed with the clerk before the
hearing.
The practice now observed maybe regarded as that which
will hereafter be adopted in all cases of original equity jurisdiction.

THE SEA WITCH.
Restitution of a neutral vessel ordered, which had apparently set out on a
lawful voyage, though she was captured out of the most direct and
regular course of it, and in a position open to some question; there having been heavy weather which might have made her desirous to take
the course she did,-one hugging a semicircular coast rather than a more
direct one across its chord.

from the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The schooner Sea Witch was captured in the Gulf of
APPEAL

* 4 Wallace, 475.

