SLATER V. MAXWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

their statements was much impaired by their evasive character. The master, particularly, professed himself entirely
ignorant of the nature or ownership of the cargo; declared
that he had no bill of lading, or any other document relating
to the merchandise on board, and knew nothing of the ownership of the vessel except what he derived from the ship's
register. He was appointed master by one Burns, of Liverpool, who shipped the goods, whether for himself or as agent
for other parties, and on whose real account, risk, and profit,
he did not know.

On the other hand, the chief officer stated distinctly that
the Adela was intended to run the blockade, and would have
entered Nassau as her first port, and, as he believed, Charleston as her next.
The character of her cargo, of which. much the largest
part consisted of Enfield rifles and other goods clearly contraband of war, and the destination of the letters found on
board, many of which were directed to Charleston, Savannah,
and neighboxing places, strongly confirm the testimony of
the chief officer.
Upon the whole evidence we are satisfied that the Adela
and her cargo were, in fact, destined for a blockaded port,
and that the decree of th6 District Court was correct. It is
therefore
AFIRMED.

SLATER V. MAXWELL.
I. Where land is sold for taxes the inadequacy of the price given is not a

valid objection to the sale.
2. Where a tract of land sold for taxes consists of several distinct parcels,
the sale of the entire tract in one body does not vitiate the proceeding

if bids could not have been obtained upon an offer of a partxof the
property.
8. Where a fact alleged in a bill in chancery is one within the defendant's
own knowledge, the general rule of equity pleading is that the defendant must answer positively, and not merely to his remembrance or belief.

Accordingly, when a bill alleged, that at the time that a very large tract

Dec. 1867.]

SLATER V. MAXWELL.

Statement of the case.
of land-sold for taxes-was put up for public sale, a great many persons were present with a view to purchase small tracts for farming purposes, but that the defendant stated to them that the complainant would
redeem his land from the purchasers, and in that way put down all competition, and had the entire property struck off to him for the amount
of the taxes; and that this conduct was pursued to enable him to buy
without competition, for a trifling amount, all the land of the complainant: Held, that an answer was evasive and insufficient, when answering that the defendant "has no r.ecollection of, making said statement, nor does he believe that he stated that W. S. would redeem his
land," and that he "believes the charge that he stated to the bystanders
attending that sale that he would do so,.to be untrue."
4. It is essential to the validity of tax sales, that they be conducted in conformity with the requirements of the law, and with entire fairness.
Perfect freedom from all influences likely to prevent competition in the
sale should be strictly exacted.
5. When the objections to a tax deed consist in the want of conformity to
the requirements of the statute in the proceedings at the sale or preliminary to it, or in the assessment of the tax, or in any like particulars, they may be urged at law in an action of ejeetment. Where, however, the sale is not open to objections of this nature, but is impeached
for fraud or unfair practices of officer or purchaser, to the prejudice of
the owner, a court of equity is the proper tribunal to afford relief.

from the District Court for Western Virginia.
Slater filed a bill in that court to compel one Maxwell to
release whatever apparent right he, Maxwell, might have
acquired to a large tract of land (19,944 acres) in Virginia,
under a sale of the same, made in October, 1845, by the
sheriff of Ritchie County, for taxes amounting to $30.03,
accrued for 1841-2-8-4, and the deeds executed upon such
sale.
The grounds of relief set forth and relied on were1. That the sale had been made at a grossly inadequate
price; the land having been worth $6000, and the sale having been made to the defendant for'$30.03.
2. That, although the land was composed of parts, capable of being sold separately, and any one of which would
have more than paid all the taxes claimed, the whole had
been set up and sold.
3. That there were many persons at the sale, bystanders,
desirous of purchasing different parts, but that the defend.
APPEAL

SLATER -V. MAXWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ant stated to them that the owner would redeem them all,
and having thus prevented all competition, had the lands
knocked down to himself for the paltry sum named.
As to the facts, it appeared to be true that the land had
been sold at. a price merely nominal, and wholly below its
value, and also that the sheriff had sold the whole; but
that in selling he had asked, "Who will pay the taxes and
damages for the least quantity of acres ?" and that getting
no bid for a less quantity of acres, he had then sold the whole.
The answer positively averred that no bid could be got for
a part. It appeared, also, that in 1840, the complainant had
sold 7955 acres of the original tract; but notwithstanding
this sale, the entire tract was charged in tiis name on the
books of the commissioner of the revenue of the county,
with the taxes, and was returned delinquent for their nonpayment, and was sold.
The main questions, accordingly, were: Had the defendant stated to the bystanders that the plaintiff would redeem
the land from the tax sale with a view of preventing their
bidding, and so of having the land knocked down to himself at a very low price; and if so, what was the effect in
equity, upon the sale, of these statements of his?
As respected the matter of fact. In reply to a positive
charge in the bill, that he had made statements of the sort
above mentioned, the defendant in his answer said, "that
he has no recollection of making said statement, nor does he
believe that he stated that William Slater would redeem his
land;" and that he "believes the charge that he stated to the
bystanders attending said sale, that William Slater would
redeem his land from the purchaser, to be untrue."
The testimony from witnesses was thus:
One Zinu stated, that "he was present when the sheriff
was crying the land, and that Maxwell stepped up, and said
he knew the owners, and it was not worth while for any person
to.bay it, that they would pay the taxes." Being asked, on
cross-examination, by the defendant himself, whether he was
certain and positive that those words were used, he answered,

"Tam."

And being asked, whether he, the defendant, "irnqht

Dec. 1867.]

SLATER V. MAXWELL.

Statement of the case.

not have alluded to some of the tracts lying in the Slater connection?" his reply was: "The defendant might have alluded to those tracts, or he might not. They were crying
the Slater land at the time he stepped up and made the observations."
One J. R. Jones, also at the sale, testified that Mr. Maxwell, S. T. Bukey, and Manly Zinn, were present; that Mr.
Zinn "appeared like as if he wanted some of the land; that
Maxwell said that he knew the men, and that it was no use
for them to bid, that it would be redeemed"-as the witness
understood Mr. Maxwell to mean-" by the owner of the land."
In reply to a question, whether any other person would
have bid on the Slater land, if the defendant had not made
the representations he did, in relation to its being redeemed,
Jones said: "It appeared to me that Mr. Bukey and Mr.
Zinn were going to bid; they said they were goig to bid on the
Slater land." Mr. Bukey was dead at the time when the
evidence was taken.
Among the exhibits filed by the complainant was a certificate from the clerk of the Ritchie County Court, that the
defendant was the purchaser at $31.53 of 19,944 acres in
Ritchie County, returned delinquent and sold in-the name
of Slater, for taxes due in October, 1845 (the taxes which
had accrued in 1841-2-3-4), amounting to $30.03. And also
a certificate, that 9944 acres of land (evidently the same
19,944 which were sold in 1845, or a part thereof) were
returned delinquent in the name of Slater, for taxes of 18467-8-9, amounting to $23.78; that twenty-five acres thereof
were sold in September, 1850, to satisfy the said taxes; and
were bought by Maxwell for $24.96. And then followed,
under date of 30th August, 1852, a receipt from the defendant
Maxwell to the plaintiff Slater, by the hand of Slater's attorney, for $30, in redemption "fbr twenty-five acres of land
purchased by me in September, 1850, for taxes, and sold as
land belonging to said Slater, by the sheriff of Ritchie
County."
There was a general replication to the answer.
The court below dismissed the bill.

SLATER V.

MAXWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

Mir. Frick,for the appellant, contended that the gross inadequacy of price-.-th part of value-shocked the con.
science, and amounted, in itself, to conclusive evidence of
fraud,* that it was, moreover, plain that the sheriff had
made no sufficient effort to get bidders for a part; and that
above all, in preventing persons from bidding, as it was
plain that he had done-the answer being evasive on this
point-Maxwell had violated a rule of the highest obligation
on persons attending auction sales,t and applicable especially
to sales for tax-titles ;J that his statements thus operated as a
fraud on the sale, which was to be set aside accordingly;
and that the case was one especially for relief through
equity: made more plainly so by the certificate from the
clerk of Ritchie County Court.
Messrs. G. H. Lee and C. Boygs, contended:
1. That the inadequacy of the price, in the absence of
fraud, was without import. That the purchase was the purchase of a mere chance, and that in such a case values could
not enter into consideration.ยง
2. That the allegation of breach of duty by the sheriff in
selling the whole instead of part, was d~nied by the answer,
and disproved.
8. That the allegation of what was said by Maxwell was
sufficiently denied by him to put the complainant to full
proof both under the Virginia statute and according to the
rules of equity pleadings; that where a conversation alleged had oocurred more than six years before, a denial
on recollection or belief is sufficient,l even if the objection
now set up to the sufficiency of the denial on belief only had
* Osgood v. Franklin, 2 Johnson's Chancery, 22.

j- Doolin v. Ward, 6 Johnson, 194; Jones v,. Caswell, 3 Johnson's Cases,
29; Phippen v. Stickney, 3 Metcalf, 386; Gardiner v. Morse, 25 Maine, 140;
Brisbane v. Adams, 3 Comstock, 130.
1 Dudley v. Little, 2 Hammond, 504.
Borell v. Dann, 2 Hare, 440, 450; Hansford v. Barbour, 3 A. K. Mai
shall, 515.
11Code of Virginia [ed. 1860], ch. 171, 40, p. 713; Hall v. Wood, 1 Pago,
404; Brooks v. Byam, 1 Story, 296; 1 Daniels's Chancery Practice, 254, 257.

Dec. 1867.]

SLATER V. MVJAXWELL.

Opinion of the court.

not been, as it was here, waived by a general replication.
That if true, the allegation was of an immaterial thing;
of a mere impression or conjecture. At most it was a graluitous dictum in respect of which Maxwell, who stood in no
relation of confidence to Slater,'was under no legal obligation to anybody for precise accuracy of statement or certainty of inference or conclusion; and if any one who heard
what he said chose to give implicit credence to it, and forbear to bid, it was his own folly or indiscretion; especially ag
Maxwell, by bidding himself, showed that he knew he might
be mistaken about the owners redeeming, and set the example of taking the chance that he might not redeem.*
4. That on the whole, the complainant had no remedy
through a court of equity. The injury to the complainant
resulted from his own gross laches and neglect of duty as a
landholder, in failing to pay his taxes and redeem his land
within the time allowed by law.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The relief sought by the bill in this case is put upon three
grounds:
1st. That the sale was made at a grossly inadequate price,
2d. That the entire tract was sold in one body; and8d. That competition at the sale was prevented by the
fraudulent declaration of the defendant, made to effect that
purpose, that the complainant would redeem the land from
the purchasers.
The inadequacy of the price given at the sale of land for
unpaid taxes thereon, does not constitute a valid objection
to the sale. The taxes levied upon property generally bear
a very slight proportion to its value, and of necessity the
* Phillips v. Duke of Buckingham, 1 Vernon. 227; Neville v. Wilkinson',
I Brown's Chancery, 546; Turner v. Harvey, Jacob, 178; Vernon v. Keys,
12 East, 637; Evans v. Bicknell, 6 Vesey, 173; Small v. Attwood, 1 Younge,
407, S. C. on appeal, 6 Clarke & Finelly, 292, 295; Trower v. Neweome, 8
MHeriv. 704; Laidlaw v. Organ, 2 Wheat. 178,195; Davis v. Rieeker,.5 John-o
son, 354.
a
YOL. V1

18

SLATER V.

MAXWELL.

[sup. or,

Opinion of the court.

whole property must be sold, if a sum equivalent to the
amount of the taxes is not-bid fbr a portion of the premises.
The sale of the entire tract in one body would have vitiated the proceeding, if bids could have been obtained upon
an offer of a part of the property. In this case the answer
avers, and the proof shows, that the sheriff offered to sell a
part of each tract without receiving a bid, and it was only
then that the entire tract was put up and struck off to the
defendant.
The case must, therefore, turn upon the last ground, the
alleged fraudulent declaration of the defendant at the sale,
to prevent competition.
The allegation of the bill is, that at the time the land was
offered for sale a great many persons were present with a
view to purchase small tracts for farming purposes, but the
defendant stated to them that the complainant would redeem
his land from the purchasers, and in that way put down all
competition, and had the entire property struck off to him
for the amount of the taxes; and that this conduct was pursued to enable him to buy without competition, for a trifling
amount, all the land of the complainant.
The answer of the defendant to the allegation is evasive
and unsatisfictory. It is that he has no recollection of
making the statement averred, nor does he believe he did,
and that he believes the charge to be untrue. The charge
is of conduct which would not readily be forgotten. It is
hardly conceivable that a person could acquire so large a
domain as 19,944 acres for so trifling a sum as thirty dollars
without a distinct recollection of the attendant circumstances.
If the property was acquired by unfair means the fact was
one within the defendant's own knowledge, and in such
cases the general rule of equity pleading is, that the defendant must answer positively and not merely to his remembrance or belief. The distinction which is generally made
between recent and remote acts or declarations of the defendant would hardly seem applicable to a case like the prescut. It is not necessary, however, to attempt to draw any
nice distinctions "n this particular, foi the answer was not

Dec. 1867.]

SLATER V.

MAXWELL.

Opinion of the court.

excepted to, and by the general replication the complainant
has waived all objections to its sufficiency.* The difference,
however, between a positive answer and an answer in the
form of the present one, upon belief, is important to be considered with reference to the testimony required to overcome
its denials. A clear and positive denial of an allegation of
the bill can only be overcome by the testimony of two witnesses to the fact alleged, or by one witness and corroborative circumstances. But if a fact alleged be denied upon
belief merely, or be denied equivocally or evasively, it may
be sustained by the testimony of a single witness.t
Turning now to the testimony presented by the record,
we find that the allegation of the bill is sufficiently established. One witness states that he was present at the sale
of the land, and thatthe defendant "stepped up and said he
knew the owners, and it was not worth while for any person
to buy it; that they would pay the taxes." Another witness states, that certain parties were present at the sale, and
that the defendant said "he knew the men, and it was no
use for them to bid, that it (the land) would be redeemed."
Some attempt was made to impeach the credibility of one
of these witnesses, but it failed. On the other band, there
are some circumstances which tend to establish the truth of
their statements. There were several persons present, some
of whom were desirous of bidding at the sale-at least they
so stated at the time. It is difficult to explain the fact that
none of them made a bid on the property, but allowed the
immense tract to be sold at a price less than two cents an
acre, except upon the idea that they believed that a bid by
them would be of no avail, because a redemption from the
sale would be made by the owner.
Again, a portion of the property, amounting to 9944 acres,
was returned delinquent for the taxes of 1846, 1847, 1848,
and 1849, in the name of the complainant. Twenty-five of
these acres were sold in September, 1850, for these taxes,
* Story's Equity Pleadings,

877.
t Knickerbacler v. Ha-ris, 1 Paige, 211; 3 Greenleaf's Evidence, ยง 289.

1

276

SLATER V. MAXWELL.

[Stp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and were bid in by the defendant. In August, 1852, the
complainant redeemed the property thus sold, and the receipt given by the defendant for the money paid on the
redemption describes the land as purchased by him in September, 1850,for taxes, and sold as belonging to the complainant.
This transaction"is inexplicable except upon the hypothesis
that the action of the defendant in bidding in the property
in 1845 was taken for the benefit of the complainant, or that
the sale then made was so far subject to objection for unfairness that he desired its concealment until, from lapse of
time, it should become impossible to impeach it successfully.
Such being the case there is no doubt that relief should be
granted the complainant. It is essential to the validity of
tax sales, not merely that they should be conducted in conformity with the requirements of the law, but that they
should be conducted with entire fairness. Perfect freedom
from all influences likely to prevent competition inthe sale
should be in all such cases strictly exacted. The owner is
seldom present, and is generally ignorant of the proceeding
until too late to prevent it. The tax usually bears a very
slight proportion to the value of the property, and thus a
great temptation is presented to parties to exclude competition at the sale, and to prevent the owner from redeeming
when the sale is made. The proceeding, therefore, should
be closely scrutinized, and whenever it has been characterized by fraud or unfairness should be set aside, or the purchaser be required tO hold the title in trust for the owner.
When the objections to a tax deed consist in the want of
conformity to the requirements of the statute in the proceedings at the sale or preliminary to it, or in the assessment
of the tax, or in any like particulars, they may be urged at
law in an action of ejectment, whether the deed be the
ground upon which the recovery of the premises is sought
by the purchaser, or be relied upon to defeat a recovery by
the owner. In some instances equity will interpose in cases
of this kind, as where the deed is by statute made evidence
of title in the purchaser, or the preliminary proceedings are
regular upon their face, and extrinsic evidence is required

Dec. 1867.]

LuM v. ROBERTSON.
Statement of the case.

to show their invalidity. Where, however, the sale is not
open to objections of this nature, but is impeached for fraud
or unfair practices of officer or purchaser, to the prejudice
of the owner, a court of equity is the proper tribunal to afford
relief. Thus in Dudley v. Little,* equity relieved against a
tax sale and deed, where there had been a combination
among several persons that one of them should buy in the
land to prevent competition.t
It follows from the views expressed, that the complainant
is entitled to a release from the defendant of all the right
and interest acquired by him under the tax deeds in the property owned by the complainant at the time of the sale. The
decree of the court below will therefore be REVERSED, and
the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree in accordance with this opinion.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

LUm V. ROBERTSON.
1. Where a bank charter is forfeited on quo war'anto and the cozporation is
dissolved, and a trustee appointed by judicial order made under statute
to collect the debts due to it and apply them to the payment of debts
which it owes, does so collect them and pay-any surplus, by the laws
of Mississippi, and by general laws of equity, will belong to the stockholders. Bacon v. Bobertson (18 Howard, 480), affirmed.
2. A delinquent debtor cannot in such case plead the judgment of forfeiture
as against a trustee seeking to reduce' his debt to money for the benefit
of the stockholders.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for Eastern Texas.
In July, 1851, Lum made two promissory notes at Natchez, Mississippi, in favor of Robertson, as trustee of the
Commercial Bank of Natchez, or order. On these notes
* 2 Hammond, 504.

f See also Yancey v. Hopkins, 1Iumford, 419; Rowland v. Doty, Har.
ringtor's Chancery, 3 ; Bacon v. Con 1 Smedes & Marshall's do. 348.

