WALKER V. VILLAVASO.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

make deeds, when prepared to do so. If this writing, upon
its face, professed to pass title, but failed to do it, either because the city company had no title, or for want of proper
execution, it could be used as color of title. But an agreement to convey title at some future period, is not color of
title, within the meaning of the law.
The Supreme Court of Texas has decided the precise question here presented. That learned court, in discussing this
subject, in Thompson v. Cragg,* say: "Nor can there be color
of title, as defined by the statute, where there is a complete
hiatus in the chain. Color of title differs from title only in
externals. The substance of both is the same. Were this
not so, if color of title were something intrinsically and substantially less, or weaker than title, then the wisdom of the
legislature could not be vindicated in applying the same
period of limitation to a possession supported by the one as
is applied to a possession supported by the other."
DECREE AFFIRMED.

[See sup-ra, preceding case, League v. Atchison, in regard to this same
statute of limitations in Texas.-RmP.]

'WALKER V.

VILLAVASO.

1. 'When the question is whether this court has jurisdiction under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, nothing out of the record
certified to the court can be taken into consideration.
2. Accordingly, when it was sought by counsel to bring before it as matter
of which it would take judicial cognizance, the fact that a judgment in
a primary State court of the Sotith,-affirmed in the highest State court

after the restoration of the Federal authority,-was rendered after the
State was in proclaimed rebellion: and by judges who had sworn allegiance to the rebel confederacy, the record not disclosing the fact that
the want of authority under the Federal Constitution of such primary

court was in such court drawn in question and decided against-this
court dismissed the writ.
*

24 Texas, 596.

Dec. 1867.]

WALKER V. VILLAVASO.

125

Argument against dismissal.
8. When the proceeding is according to the law of Louisiana, the case within
the section must appear by the statement of facts and decision, as usually
made in such cases by the court.

to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
This was a motion by 31r. Janin to dismiss the writ of
error. The suit,-a suit instituted by Villavaso against
Walker, in the District Court of the parish of St. Bernard,
Louisiana,-was one of the ordinary sort for foreclosure and
sale under a mortgage according to the practice prevailing
in Louisiana. Between the 25th January and the 17th August, 1861, Louisiana had passed an "ordinance of secession"
ERROR

from the Union, adopted the constitution of the Rebel States,
required all office-holders to swear allegiance to it, and had
been proclaimed in a state of insurrection by the President
of the United States. During this term, to wit, on the 18th
October, 1861, an order of sale of the mortgaged premises
was made. It was made by the same judges who had sat
before the secession; and who remained in office apparently
until May, 1865, when loyal judges were appointed under act
of Congress. The Supreme Court of the State having, in
1867, affirmed the decree of foreclosure made in the parish
court, the affirmance was brought here as within the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act, which declares that where a
controversy in a State court draws in question an authority
exercised under the United States, and the decision is against
its validity, the matter may be reviewed here; jbut declares
also that no other cause shall be regarded as ground of
reversal, than "such as appears on the face of the record."
No question apparently about the legality of the court had
been raised on the trial or decided by the parish court.
Mr. Durant, against the votion:
The case presented to the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
by the appeal, was one where a judge had exercised an authority under an insurgent organization, assuming to be an
independent state and part of a confederacy unackuowledged and at war with the United States, and such authority
was repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United

"WALICER V. VILLAVASO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

States. Such exercise of authority was null, and it was the
duty of the Supreme Court of Louisiana so to declare it.

For a court of error will take judicial notice of the nature
and extent of the jurisdiction of the inferior court, whose
judgment it revises.*
Where the judge is incompetent ratione materie-stillmore
so where he is a mere usurper-the want of jurisdiction may
be shown at any stage of the cause.t And the judge is
bound to notice such defect ex ol6io.1
The fact that the inhabitants of Louisiana were, in October, 1861, in insurrection, was one which the Supreme Court
of Louisiana was bound to notice, and so noticing it to declare that no judicial authority could be recognized under
it as valid by a court sitting under the Constitution.
They did not do this. On the contrary, in confirming the
judgment of the so-called court of the parish of St. Bernard,
they did thereby sustain and decide in favor of an authority
exercised under a State in insurrection, and a constitution
and laws drawn in question as repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States. The insurrectionary court must have
been decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana to be a
valid authority, in order to have induced the judgmeut affirming its decision. And in such a case it is not necessary that
it should appear on the face of the record that the question
was raised or the decision made in so many words.ยง
dr. Janin, in reply:
Vattel, Grotius, Puffendorf, and other writers on public
law, declare that a civilized nation, after having conquered
another, will not add to the sufferings inseparable from war
the unspeakable misery which would result from a destruction of all private dealings which took place previous to the
conquest. This most civilized one has throughout the late
* Obitty v. Dendy, 3 Adolphus & Ellis, 319.

t Lapeyer's Ex. v. Lafon, 1 Louisiana (New Series), 704; Merlin Repertoire de Jurisprudence, vol. 7, p 122, edition, Brussels, 1826.
1 Kerr v. Kerr, 14 Louisiana, 179; Grenier v. Thielen, 6 Robinson, 365;
Fleming v. Kiligsberg, 11 Id. 80.
Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co., I Wallace, 116.

Dec. 1867.]

WALKER V.

VILLAVASO.

Argument in favor of dismissal.

troubles acted in the same spirit. When General Butler
took possession of New Orleans, in May, 1862, he issued
a proclamation, announcing that "all the rights of property, of whatever kind, will be held inviolate, subject only
to the laws of the United States," and that "civil causes
between party and party will be referred to the ordinary
tribunals." This court, in commenting on it in The Venice,*
say :
"As far as possible, the people of such parts of the insurgent
States as came under national occupation and control, were
treated as if their relations to the National government had
never been interrupted."

In Louisiana three volumes of reports, vols. 16, 17, and
18, of the Annual leports of the Decisions of the Supreme
Court, have been printed since the commencement of the political troubles. Neither of them has in the syllabus the word
"rebellion."
Vol. 16 contains the decisions rendered from
January, 1861, to February, 1862, the judges being the same
which held office before secession. The reports do not contain the slightest allusion to the political circumstances under
which it was produced. The new court, organized in 1865,
took cognizance of cases decided by the district courts before the restoration of Federal authority in Louisiana, without ever questioning their validity, between private individuals. In White v. Cannon,t a judgment had been rendered by
the Supreme Court on January 31, 1861, five days after the
secession of Louisiana. In 1865 the party cast made a motion in the new court to reinstate the case for reargument,
because "the judgment of the Supreme Court, having been
rendered after the ordinance of secession, has become absolutely null and void." The court said:
"The only question before us is whether the judgment in
question is absolutely null and void or not. We are clearly of
opinion that it is not tainted with absolute nullity. As to the
*2

Wallace, 277.

t16 :Louisiana Annual, 85.

WALKER V. VILLAVASO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ordinance of'secession, it was an absolute nullity, and produced
no legal effect. The Supreme Court was not affected or changed
by its passage."
But the case is not within the twenty-fifth section at all.
No authority of the United States was set up in the parish
court at all; and if it had been, it does not appear "on the
face of the record." This ends the matter.
Mr. Justice INELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The suit in the District Court for the parish of St. Bernard was an ordinary one for seizure and sale under a
mortgage according to the practice prevailing in the courts
of Louisiana. Indeed, this is hardly denied by the learned
counsel for the plaintiff in error, but he relies on some infirmity in the jurisdiction of the court to hear and determine the case; and refers in support of it to certain insurgent proceedings in the State of Louisiana, against the then
existing government, and to acts of Congress on the subject.
But this question as to the competency of the court was not
made on the trial, nor did the court below consider or determine any such question.
In order to give this court jurisdiction under the twentyfifth section, it must appear on the record itself to be one of
the cases enumerated in that section, and nothing out of the
record certified to the court can be taken into consideration;
and when the proceeding is according to the law of Louisiana,
the case within the section must appear by the statement of
facts and decision, as usually made in such cases by the
court.* No such case or question appears on the present
record.
WRIT DISMISSED.

* Armstrong v. Treasurer, 16 Peters 285.

