SILVER V.

LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

SILVER V. LADD.
1. Where a title under a settlement certificate issued under an act of Congress is set up by a party in the highest court of a State, and the decision of such courr is against the title so set up, a writ of error lies
from this court under th'e twenty-fifth section of the Judidiary Act.
2. Approval by the judge of a bond for prosecution of a writ of error may
be inferred from the facts of the transaction. And where the record
showed that the bond had been duly executed, that the sureties had been
sworn to-their sufficiency by the judge who signed the citation, and that
all was done on the same day: Feld, that it might be inferred that the
bond was approved by the judge.

Tnis cause came before the court on a motion by Mlir.
.Lander, to dismiss writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Oregon.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion.
The record shows a suit in equity to quiet title to a certaintract of land, which belonged to the complainant's intestate,
against the alleged inequitable claims of the defendants.
The complainant claimed title under a settlement certificate issued under the act of Congress of September 27th, 1850,
relating to donations to settlers upon the public lands, and
the decision of the court was against the title claimed under
the authority of that act. There is no doubt, therefore, that
the complainant was entitled to his writ of error to bring
the judgment of the State court under the review of this
court.
Another ground of dismissal more relied upon was, that
the bond for prosecution was not taken as required by law.
It appears from the record that the writ of error was duly
issued; that a bond for prosecution of the writ was executed;
that the sureties made oath to their sufficiency before E. D.
Shattuck, chief justice of Oregon; that the citation in error
was signed by the same judge; and that all these things were
done on the same day, namely, the 8th of October, 1866.
The law- requires that the judge signing the citation shall
take good and sufficient security. This, doubtless, is equiva-

Dec. 1867.]

THE GRACE GIRDLER.
Statement of the case.

lent to a provision that the judge shall approve the bond
But no particular form of approval is required. Approva.
may be inferred from the facts of the transaction. And we
think it a fair, and, indeed, almost necessary inference, from
the fact of the sureties being sworn to their sufficiency by
the judge who signed the citation, that the security was taken
by him as required by law.
M4OTION DENIED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD: I dissent from the views expressed by the court in the second ground assumed in favor
of dismissing the writ of error.

THE

GRACE GIRDLER.

In an appeal in admiralty, where the record has failed to show that the sum
necessary to give this court jurisdiction of such an appeal was in controversy below, the court, in a proper case, and where it is asserted by
the appellant that such sum was really in controversy, will allow him a
limited time to make proof of the fact.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.
This was a motion made by Jr. Donoltue to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Northern District of New
York.
Lockwood, the appellant, with several others, had filed a
joint libel against the schooner Grace Girdler, claiming damages occasioned by her collision with the schooner Ariel.
The aggregate damages sustained by the libellants amounted,
according to the libel, to $2754. The libel was dismissed in
the District Court, and the dismissal was affirmed on appeal
in the Circuit Court. None of the libellants appealed to this,
court except Lockwood; and while it was apparently obvious
that as owner of the vessel much the greater part of the loss.
had illen upon him, the record did not aver that the damage which he had suffered exceeded $2000; as a statute requires that it should be, in order to give the court jurisdiction.
APPEAL

