LEAGUE v. ATcHIsoN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

1hat while we shall retain jurisdiction of the case, the record
will be remanded to the Court of Claims, with directions t)
return a finding of the facts, in accordance with the rule.
These principles also dispose of the motion for certiorari
in the case of Clark et al. v. United Slates. The motion there
is designed to require the Court of Claims to make a more
extended statement of the evidence on which they find,
"that the allegation of fraud or mistake in the concoction
of the written agreement is not sustained by the evidence in
the case."
This is precisely the character of finding which the rule of
this court was intended to produce. The existence of the
fraud or mistake set up in the pleading is one of the ultimate
facts to which the law of the case must be applied, in rendering ajudgment, and this court does not purpose to go
behind the finding of the Court of Claims on that subject.
To do so would require an examination of evidence, and a
comparison of the weight to be attached to each separate
piece of testimony, and the drawing of inferences from the
whole, which is the peculiar province of a jury, and which,
by our rule, we intended to exclude from the consideration
of this court, by making such finding by the Court of Claims
conclusive. The motion in that case is, therefore, overruled.
MoTIoNs OVERRULED

in all the cases, but in the second case

the record remanded with directions to make a new finding
of facts in accordance with the rules of court on the subject.

LEAGUE V. ATcHISOn.
Under the fifteenth section of the statute of limitations of Texas, which
enacts that "every suit instituted to recover real estate as against him,
her, or them in possession under title or color of title, shall be instituted
within three years next after the cause of action shall have accrued," and
which adds that "by the term title, as used in this section, is meant a
reqularchain of transfer from or under the sovereignty of the soil; and

color of title is constituted by a consecmtive chain of such transfer down to

Dec. 1867.]

LEAGUE V

AToISON.

Statement of the case.
him, her or them in possession, without being regular (as if one or more
of the muniments be not registered or not duly registered, or be only in
writing, or such like defect," &c.), there is neither title nor color of title
when any link in the chain is so wanting, as that there is at hiatus in the
chain ; that is to say, when the case is not that of a defect or flaw in some
link which makes the chain weak at that point, but when there is no
chain at all.

ERROR to the District Court for the Eastern District of
Texas.
The statute of limitations of Texas, after making ten
years a protection to one who enters without title, and five
years a protection when the party has entered with claim
under a deed on record, and has paid the taxes and made
cultivation during that term, enacts by its fifteenth section
as follows:*
"That every suit to be instituted to recover real estate, as
against him, her or them in possession, under *title or color of
itle, shall be instituted within three years next after the cause
of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards. By the term
title, as used in this section, is meant a regular chain of transfer
from or under the sovereignty of the soil; and color of title is
constituted by a consecutive chain of such transfer down to him,
her or them in possession, without being regular; as if one or more
of the memorials or muniments be not registered, or not duly
registered, or be only in writing, or such like defect as may not
extend to or include the want of intrinsic fairness and honesty;
or when the party in possession shall hold the same by a certificate of head-right, warrant, or land-scrip, with a chain of transfer down to him, her or them in possession; and provided this
section shall not bar the right of the government."
With this act in force Atchison brought suit against League
to recover a lot of ground in Galveston.
On the trial, it appeared that both parties claimed title
under the Directors of the Galveston City Company, from
whom the title was deraigned, to one Hasbrook. The plaintiff asserted himself to be the owner of Hasbrook's title
Hartley's Digest, Art. 2391.
VOL. vi.

8

L[EAGUE

V.

ATCHISON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

through a deed from him to one Curtis. The defendant
denied the validity of this deed to Curtis, alleging it to be a
forgery, and claimed under a levy and sale of the property
under a judgment against Hasbrook posterior to the alleged
sale of Hasbrook to Curtis. The validity of this deed was
one of the issues to be tried,.one however not involved in
the case as here presented. The defendants pleaded the
statute whose fifteenth section as to limitation of three years
is above quoted. On this point tfie plaintiff's counsel requested the court to instruct the jury as follows:
"That, if the jury, under the instructions of the court, find a
conveyance from Hasbrook and wife to Curtis to be valid, then
the sheriff had no authority to make the levy, under the execution against Hasbrook, on the lot in question, or to make the
deed to Atchison, and there is no such transfer of title from Hasbrook to Atchison as will sustain the plea of limitation."
'The court refused the instruction, and whether it had done
so rightly or not was the point for review here.
The case was fully argued in behalf of the plaintiffin error
by Messrs. C. Robinson and W. G. Blale, who relied on the
fifteenth section above quoted, as clear of itself; citing in addition, however, by way of illustration, the statutes of "Kentucky, Pennsylvania, and other States, and decisions upon
them, to show what possession was adverse.
Messrs. Green Adams, and W. P. Balinger, contra.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question involved in this case arises on the construction to be given to. the 15th section of the statute of
limitations of the State of Texas. It is somewhat peculiar
in its terms, and is well suited to the policy of a new State
desirous to encourage emigration, and the settlement of its
vacant lands.
For this purpose the usual limitation of twenty years,
which alone would protect one who had entered without
title, was held insufficient. Hence the legislation of Texas

Dec. 1867.]

LEAGUE

v.

_ATCHISON.

Opinion of the court.

reduced the term to ten years. This term was also reduced
to five years when the disseizor entered with a claim of title
under a recorded deed, and had paid the taxes and cultivated the land for that length of time.
The limitation of three years now under consideration
was intended to protect settlers under junior grants emanating from the State of Texas against older titles under the
former Mexican spvereignty, as well as a fraudulent issue of
head-right certificates or land scrip under the Republic.
This policy is clearly exhibited in this peculiar term and
the provisions of this section.
As respects the instruction requested by the plaintiff's
counsel, we are of the opinion that the court erred in refusine, it.
There was no dispute that the defendant purchased with
full notice of the previous deed to Curtis. The only question was, whether this deed from the sheriff gave him such
a title or color of title as is required by the statute.
Unnecessary labor and learning has been expended by
counsel, as to the construction of similar statutes in other
States, and as to whether the possession of defendent was
adverse or not. This section of the statute is its own interprete'. It was not made to protect mere adverse possession; it carefully defines the construction of the words used.
By the term title, as used in this section, is meant "a regular ehain of transfer from, or under the sovereignty of the soil;'
and color of title is constituted by a consecutive chain of
such transfer down to him or her or them in possession,
without being regular, as if one or more of the memorials
or instruments be not registered, or not duly registered, or
be only in writing, or such like defect," &c., J'e.
Now, this case shows no such "chain of title or transfer
from the sovereignty," as to constitute either title or color
of title. As defined by the act, a link in the chain is absent,
which is necessary to make the whole one chain. It is not
merely a defect or flaw in some link in the chain which may
li,akc it weak at that point, but there is no chain at all. A
s%-ie of 'he sheriff on a judgment agaiust "A," confers nei

116

OSTERMAN

v.

BALDWIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ther title nor color of title to the property of "B." In
Thompson v. Cragg,* the court say: "NTor can there be
color of title where there is a complete hiatus in the chain.
Color of titles differs from titles only in externals. The
substance of both is the same, were this not so. If color
of title were something intrinsically and substantially less
or weaker than title, then the wisdom of the legislature
could not be vindicated," &c. This construction of the
statute as thus settled by the courts of Texas is conclusive,
even if we doubted its correctness, which we do not.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.
[See infra,next case, Osterman v. Baldwin, in regard to this same section
15 of the Texas statute of limit-ations.-IEP.]

OSTERMAN

v.

BALDWIN.

1. A citizen of the United States, and who, as such, was of course before the
admission of Texas into the Union, an alien to that republic, and so,
as against office found, incompetent to hold land there, became on the
admission, competent, no office having been previously found. "
2. A purchaser at sheriff's sale buys precisely the interest which the debtor
had in the property sold, and takes subject to all outstanding equities.
8. Trusts of real estate are not embraced by the statute of frauds of Texas,
and may be proved, as at common law, by parol.
4. A mere declaration in writing by a vendor of a vendee's purchase of
land, that the vendee had paid the money for it, and that the vendor
intended to make deeds when prepared to do so, is not a document purporting to convey title; and accordingly will constitute neither a link
in "a consecutive chain of transfer," nor "color of title" within the
meaning of the fifteenth section of the statute of limitations of Texas.
APPEAL (submitted) from the District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas.
In 1839, prior to the admission of Texas into our Union,
and that country being then an independent republic, Bald* 24 Texas, 596. See also Wright v. Daily, 26 Id. 730; Berry v. Donley,
Id. 737; Harris v. Hardeman. 27 Id. 248.

