Deu. 1867.]

MUMFORD

V. WARDWELL.

Syllabus.

on record may more properly be imputed to himself than
to the defendant.
We are asked to decide that the gentleman who did Mrs.
Fowler the kindness to make the investment for her should
have anticipated her negligence, and that also of her husband, and have anticipated the insolvency, also, of the mortgagor, and that he has been guilty of negligence, either
simple or gross, which should make him liable in the present
action.
We do not take this view of the case, and find no error
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
in the charge of the court.
The OIEF JUSTICE did not sit in this case.

MUMFORD V. WARDWELL.
1. Where a paper in the form of a special verdict-except that after stating
the facts, it did not refer the decision on them to the court in the conditional and alternative way usual in such verdicts, but found "a general verdict for the plaintiff subject to the opinion of the court upon the
foregoing recited facts "-was IIagreed to as a special verdict " by counsel in the cause, filed of record and passed on as an agreed case by the
court below, this court-remarking that as a special verdict the paper
was defective, because not ending with the usual conclusion-in view
of the facts just mentioned considered it as a special verdict or agreed
case, and on error to a judgment given on it below adjudged the case
prebented by it.
2. Where a btatute gave to a city named, certain lands of the State, excepting such as had been sold or granted by a certain body or certain officers
in accordance with terms specified, or had been sold or granted by a certain officer and confirmed by a certain body, but declared also that the
deed by which any of the excepted lands were conveyed by such body
or officer should be "prima facie evidence of itle and possessicn, to enable the plaintiff to recover possession of the land so granted:" Held,
that the deed made under the statute being in evidence, a compliance
with the terms upon which sales were to be made (such as sufficient
notice) was, under its terms, primarily to be presumed, and that it was
cast upon any one alleging non-compliance to prove it.
S. Where a statute of California, passed in 1851, granted certain lands, excepting from the grant such as had been granted by a particular officer,

MUMFORD

V.

WARDWELL.

ESup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
and "registered or recorded on or before April 3d, 1850, in some booA
of record now in the office, &c., of the recorder of the county:" Held.
that the term "book" was satisfied, within the meaning of the act, by
copies' of the deeds on sheets not bound or fastened together in any
manner, but folded, the name of the purchaser and number and designation of the class of the lot sold being indorsed thereon, each distinct
class being kept in a separate bundle, and the sheets not being bound
up in the form of books, until 1856, when they were so bound; each
class forming a separate volume.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
California.
Mumford-plaintiff both below and in error here-brought
ejectment against Wardwe'II for a "one hundred-vara lot,"
No. 186 on the official map of San Francisco. Plea, possession as owner under a good title. The record showed that
the case was set down on that issue for trial August 26th,
1863, when the jury found a verdict in these words:

J. E. Mumford v. C. Otis Wardwell, United States Circuit Court,
Northern District of California.
We, the jury, find a verdict for the plaintiff, subject to the opin
ion of the court.
GEORGE AMERAGE,
Foreman.
SArI FRA cisco, August 26th, 1863.

The finding set forth no case, nor had any been previously
stated.- This verdict was entered of record; but no notice
apparently taken afterwards of it. Subsequdntly, on the
29th August, by consent of counsel, it was ordered that the
further hearing of the cause should be set down for September 5th. The record went on:
"And afterwards, to wit, on the 5th day of September, A.D.
1863, the following special verdict, by stipulation of counsel, was
duly entered of record in said cause, to wit:
SPECIAL VERDICT.

In the Circuit Court of the TJnited States for the Northern
District -f California.

Dec. 1867.]

DUMFORD V. WARDWELL.
Statement of the case.

JAMES E. MUMFORD, Plaintiff, V. CHAs. 0. WARDWELL,

Defendant.

AT COMMON LAW.

And now, on this 26th day of August, A.D. 1863, come the
parties aforesaid by their respective attorneys, and thereupon
come a jury, to wit: [the names of the jurors were here given],
twelve good and lawful men, who, being duly elected, tried, and
sworn, the issues herein joined between said parties well and
truly to try, and a true verdict to render according to the evidence, after hearing the evidence of said parties respectively, the
jurors aforesaid upon their oaths aforesaid do say;"
Following this was set forth the titles of the respective
parties to the lot in controversy. The document ended thus,
the signatures of the respective counsel being appended at
the end:
"And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do
further say that they find a general verdict for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion of the court upon the foregoing recitedfacts.
"The above is agreed to as a special verdict in this cause."
It will be observed that in what was here agreed to "as a
special verdict," there was no such conclusion as is technically usual in special verdict actually found by a jury; that
is to say, the finding did not, after presenting the case, refer
the decision of it to the court, with the conditional and alternative conclusion, that if the court should be of the opinion,
in view of the facts, that the plaintiff was entitled to recover,
then they found for the plaintiff, but if Qtherwise, they found
for the defendant.
But this matter was not the subject of rema'rk either by
counsel here or apparently by them in the court below; and
the paper agreed to was treated everywhere as a case agreed
on and stated for the opinion of the court.
The title of the respective parties as set forth in the case
as settled was as follows, that of the defendant, for more
clearness, being here stated first:
1. Deferdant's title. The lot was what was called a water-

MIMFORD V. WARDWELL.

LS, p. ct,

Statement of the case.

lot; that is to say, formed part of certain flats, situated below
the high-water mark of San Francisco Bay. The conquest
of Mexico, in 1846, having put the whole region about San
Francisco into the control of the military authorities of the
United States, General Kearney, then acting as Military
Governor of California, by deed reciting that he was acting
in virtue of authority vested in him by the President of the
United States, conveyed these flats (with some unimportant
reservations) to the town of San Francisco; a proviso being
attached to the grant that they should be divided into lots,
and after three months' notice sold at auction to the highest
bidder for the benefit of the town. On the 1st day of December, 1849, the ayuntamiento or town council of San Francisco ordained:
"That two hundred fifty-vara town lots be sold at public auc.
tion on Friday,the 1Oth instant."
On the same 10th of December, 1849, General J. W.
Geary, then acting-as alcalde of San Francisco (under which
title the municipal authority of that city was exercised by
officers, either appointed by the military commandant or
elected by the people)-by deed reciting that the ayuntamiento or town council of San Francisco, by resolution passed
on the 1st day of -December, 1849, had ordered that. certain
town lots should be exposed to public sale and sold to the
highest bidder, and that after due public notice, &c., one of the
said lots, No. 186, so ordered to be sold, was sold to D.
O'Brien, &c.-grauted and conveyed the said lot, No. 186, to
O'Brien aforesaid.
This deed, like every other deed made by Alcalde Geary
during his term of office, consisted of a printed blank on one
sheet, filled up at the time it was issued; and like them was
not registered or recorded except in the following manner,
that is to say: Copies of the deeds consisting of similar
blanks, filled up in like manner by the clerk of Alcalde
Geary, were retained in the office of the alcalde. These
copies were folded up, the name of the purchaser and num-

Dec. 1867.]

MUMFORD

V. WARDWELL.

Statement of the case.

ber of the lot and designation of the class to which it be'longed-(that is to say, whether one hundred-vara, fifty-vara,
or water-lot)-being indorsed thereon, and those of each distinct class were kept in said alcalde's office in a separate
bundle; but these several copies were not bound or fastened

together in any manner. In that state they passed into the
office of the county recorder, on its organization in 1850,
where they continued to remain until 1856, when they were
bound up in the form of books, each class forming a separate

volume. The grant to O'Brien was filled up in the manner
above stated, and a copy of it also, made as above stated,
was kept in like manner in the bundle composed of copies
of grants of one-hundred-vara lots, and so continued until
the time it with the other copies was bound up as abovesaid, in 1856.
Whether General Kearney had authority to make a grant
such as he did make to the town of San Francisco, or
whether the ayuntamiento or town council of San Francisco ever directed a sale of the lot in question,-which it
will be remembered was a hundred-vara lot, not a fiftyvara one,-the case agreed on as a special verdict did not
state.
Some time after the sale, that is to say, on the 26th of
March, 1851, the legislature of California granted these flats,
including this lot, to the city of San Francisco for ninetynine years. But the statute contained (ยง 2) two exceptions.
It excepted from its operation those portions of the flats
which bad been either,
First, "Sold by authority of the ayuntamiento, or town or
city council, or by any alcalde of the said town or city, at public auction, in accordance with the terms of the grant known as
Kearney's Grant to the City of San Francisco," or"

Second, "Sold or granted by any alcalde of the said city of San
Francisco, and confirmed by the ayuntarniento or town or city
council thereof, and also registered or recordedon or before the
3d day of April, A.D. 1850, in some book of record, now [that is,
on the 26th day of March, A.D. 1851] in the office, or custody,
or control of the recorder of the county of San Francisco."

MUMFORD V. WARDWELL.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

It contained also (ยง 3)this enactment as to the effect,
viewed as evidence, of any deed, by which any of the lands
excepted were conveyed or granted by any ayuntamiento,
common council, or alcalde; declaring that it
"Shall be prim facie evidence of title and possession to enable
the plaintiff to recover possession of the land so granted."

Such was the title of Wardwell; defendant below and
here.
2. The plaintiff's was a sheriff's deed for the lot, on execution upon a judgment against the city of San Francisco,
all confessedly regular, but all subsequent to the statute
above quoted.
On this case the court below entered judgment for the
defendant, Wardwell.
J.2r. T. Ewing, Jr., for the plaintiff in error, Mumford:
It will be conceded by opposing counsel, that General
Kearney, as military commandant, had no power to make
such a grant as he did. The grant was void. The flats or
ground under a navigable bay, remained the property of the
United States. On the admission of California into the
Union, they became hers. She granted them to the city of
San Francisco, and under the sheriff's deed the title is in
the plaintiff, unless the defendant brings himself within one
of the two exceptions of the statute of 1851. The burden
of doing this is on him. prima facie the case is with the
plaintiff.
Plainly the defendant cannot bring himself within the first
exception. General Kearney's grant required in terms three
months' notice of the sale to be given. Of this sale but ten
days' notice, at most, was given. The defendant would
therefore bring himself doubtless within the second exception. Admitting then-which we do not admit-that the
particular lot described in Geary's deed was ever in fact sold
o, granted by that alcalde; still the sale does not come
within the secand exception, and is inoperative, because-

Dec. 1867.]

D1 UMFORD

". 'WARDWELL.

Argument for the defendant in error.

1. It was never "confirmed" in any manner by the ayuntamiento or town or city council of San Francisco. Indeed,
no "confirmation"-that is, no approval subsequent to the
sale-was ever perhaps thought of. Alcalde Geary plainly
supposed that he was selling under the authority previously
given in the ordinance of 1st December, 1849-which ordinance indeed he recites as the authority for his act. But
this was a mistake. The ordinance authorized sales of fiftyvara lots alone. The record, which appears, of an ordinance,
passed 1st December, to sell fifty-vara lots, is convincing
proof that there was no ordinance of the same day to sell
hundred-vara lots. Both would have been recorded as certainly as the one was. The sale of hundred-vara lots was
therefore spra vires; and void as in excess of the power
given.
2. In no sense in which the words in question could have
been used by the legislature, does the case stated show a
registering or recording of the deed in a "book of record."
The word " book" has always signified a number of sheets
of paper or parchment, if not bound, yet at least sewed or
attached together in some manner, so as to constitute a
volume; something that can be opened, turned over, and
read. It has never signified, nor been applied to a bundle
of folded papers; still less to a single sheet in such bundle.*
Messrs. Botts, Dwinelle, and Lake, contra:
We concede that the attempt of General ]Kearney to bestow
these lands upon the town of San Francisco was ineffectual.t
We concede, too, that the State of California, when admitted into the Union, succeeded the United States as sovereign
proprietor of all lands situate below 6rdinary high-water
mark and within its borders; including, of course, these
flats.1 The only question then is whether the defendant is
* Chapin v. Bourne, 8 California, 296.

t Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 512, 513; United States v. Fitzgerall, 15
Id 421 ; United States v. Hare, Circuit Court of the United States for California, October, 1867; MS.
$ Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 Howard. 212.

MUMFORD V. WARDWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

included within either of the exceptions of the statute of
1851.

.

. We submit that he is within both; or if not, cer

tainly that he is within the second.
1. The State of California, who owned the land, had a righi
to grant the lots to the city-the grant being a pure bountyon what terms she pleased. She does so grant them. She
declares that the deed itself shall be primafacie evidence of
title." The effect of this enactment is, that confirmation by
the ayuntamiento is primarily to be presumed. The plaintiff must show, affirmatively, that there was no such confirmation. The deed itself, which is of a hundred-yara lot,
recites a resolution of the town council, passed December 1st,
A.D. 1849, ordering a sale of the lot in question. That a
resolution was passed by the council on the same day, ordering a sale of fifty-vara lots, is unimportant. That resolution
shows that fifty-vara lots were ordered to be sold, but does
not exclude the idea of a resolution being passed at the same
meeting ordering hundred-varalots to be sold.
2. Was the deed "registered or recorded in some book
of record ?" We submit that it was so; at least was so
within the design of the act. Binding does not constitute
a book. A book may be a bound book, but it may also be
one not bound; a book stitched or even yet in sheets. The
sheets in the recorder's office furnished materials ready to
assume the form of bound books, which they did assume under the binder's hands in 1856. The thing to be attained,
was the -preservation of record evidence of the grant in an
authentic, permanent, and accessib6 form; and the purpose
evidently was, not to give constructive notice of the existence of such grants, but to prevent the fabrication of spurious
titles. They were already "records," whether bound or
not.* Interpreting, then, the statute according to its spirit
and intent, these two "separate bundles" of official copies
of official grants, constituted two separate "books of record."
Suppose a book of records falling to decay, and the sheets
becoming loose during the period between the destruction
* Eyburg v. Perkins, 6 California, 674.

Dec. 18 67.]

MUMFORD V.

WARDWELL.

Opinion of the court.

of the old binding and the rebinding, would there be no
"book of records ?"

Reply: 1. Whatever might be reasonably argued under
the primafacie effect given by the statute to the deed, if there
was no evidence of any order of sale by the ayuntarniento on
the 1st December, 1849, we submit that by the admitted order
to sell fifty-vara lots-the only order in the case-the prima
facies of an order to sell one-hundred vara lots on that same
day is rebutted. In other words, when we showed a resolution of a public body like the ayuntamiento, passed December 1st, 1849, ordering a sale of town lots of one sort to take
place December 10th, 1849, corresponding exactly with the
resolution recited by the alcalde, as his authority for making
a sale of another and different kind, the presumptions made
it incumbent on defendant to put in evidence a resolution
of the same date authorizing a sale of the different kind. It
is a case where the expressio unius infers the exclusio alteri.s.
2. A bundle of copies of deeds is a very important part
of the "materials" by the aid of which a book of copies of
deeds may be made; but bundled up and "not fastened
together in any. manner," they are not, in that condition, a
"book" in any sense.
Mr. Justice CLI]FFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff brought ejeetment against the defendant to recover possession of a certain tract of land situated in the city
of San Francisco, describing it by metes and bounds, and as
the one hundred-vara lot numbered one hundred and eightysix, as laid down and represented on the official map of the
city. Defendant pleaded that he was in the possession of
the lot as owner under a good title, which the plaiutiff in his
replication denied. Parties went to trial upon that issue,
and the jury impanelled to try the issue returned the following verdict, as appears by the record: We, the jury, find a
verdict for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion of the court.
1. 1. Such a verdict is certainly irregular in form, and it
does not appear that it was ever made the subject of any

MUMFORD V.

W'ARDWELL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

further action. Instead of affirming or amending it, or setting
it aside, the parties and the court seem to have treated it as
a nullity. iNo notice whatever was taken of it except that
the cause was set for hearing at a subsequent day, but when
the time for the hearing came, the parties, by stipulation,
entered of record the paper called the special verdict.
Statement of the introductory allegation of the paper is,
that a jury came, and that they were duly impanelled and
sworn, and that, having heard the parties, they found the
facts as therein recited, but it is not signed by the foreman,
and the statement in the conclusion is, that the jury return
a general verdict for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion of
the court upon the recited facts.
Irrespective of the agreement of the parties, it would be
difficult to regard the document as the proper foundation of
a judgment, because the alleged finding of the jury is not in
the alternative, as it should be in a special verdict.
2. Correct practice in such cases is, that the jury find the
facts of the case and refer the decision of the cause upon
those facts to the court, with a conditional conclusion that if
the court should be of opinion, upon the whole matter as
found, that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, then they find
for the plaintiff, but if otherwise, then they find for the defendant. By leave of the court such a verdict may be prepared by the phrties, subject to the correction of the court,
and it may include agreed facts in addition to those found by
the jury. When the facts are settled and the verdict is reduced to form, it is then entered of record, and the questions
of law arising on the facts so found are then before the court
for hearing as in case of a demurrer.
3. Verdicts should be general or special, as the jury, in
the absence of directions from the court, have nothing to
do in respect to a special case. Principal purpose of a special
case is, that the court may have time to hear the parties and
give the questions of law arising at the trial a more deliberate
consideration.
4. Such being the understanding between the court and
the bar, the entry is made in the minutes that the verdict is

Dec. 1867.]

MUMFORD V. WARDWELL.

433

Opinion of the court.

subject to the opinion of the court, but the entry follows the
verdict and is no part of the finding of the jury.
5. Where the verdict is general the court may enter judgment on the verdict, or may set it aside and grant a new
trial, but the rulings of the court during the trial cannot be
revised on writ of error save by a regular bill of exceptions.
Judgment also may be rendered on the verdict in a special
case, or a new trial may be granted because the verdict is
general, and is for plaintiff or defendant.
6. Exceptions to the order of the court in granting a new
trial do not lie in any case, and the losing party in case of
judgment in a special case cannot except to the rulings of
the court during the trial, unless he seasonably reserved the
right to turn the special case into a bill of exceptions, because
-he court has no power, unless otherwise agreed, to render
-inyjudgment except upon the verdict of the jury.
7. Special verdicts having a conditional or alternative finding are the proper foundation of a judgment for either party,
as the law of the case on the facts found may require, and
consequently the judgment of the subordinate court on such
a verdict, whether for plaintiff or defendant, may be re-examined in the appellate tribunal without any bill of exceptions.*
Viewed strictly as a special verdict, it is evident that the
paper under consideration is defective, because it does not
contain the conditional or alternative finding of the jury, and
in that respect it is irregular.
But the parties intended to agree, and did agree, that the
facts as found were correct, and entered the paper of record
at the time under the leave of the court as a correct statement of the facts in the case. They do not appear to have
taken any distinction between a special verdict and a special
ease, or an agreed statement of facts, and the record shows
that the judgment of the court was rendered, wholly irrespective of any such distinction. Both parties appear to have
Suydam v. Williamson et al., 20 Howard, 432; 3 Blackstone's Commenta. ies, 378; Seward v. Jackson, 8 Cowen, 406; State v- Wallace-. & Iredell,
195
Vol.. VT.

28

MU31FORD V. WARDWELL.

Esup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

treated the paper as an agreed statement in the court below,
and it has been treated in the same way in this court. Undoubtedly the general verdict was superseded when the paper
in question was entered of record, as thatwas done under
the sanction of the court and by the consent of both parties,
and it is certain that the parties intended that the controversy should be finally decided upon the facts as therein
agreed.
8. Doubt cannot be entertained upon that subject, and yet
such a result cannot follow if the paper is held to be a
special verdict, unless the opinion of the court is in favor of
the plaintiff, as there is no proper conclusion in it to warrant
a judgment for the defendant. Regarded as an agreed statement, the paper is in due form, and inasmuch as no objections are made to the proceedings, the court here adopts that
view of the subject as the correct one in the case.
I. Reference will first be made to the title of the plaintiff
as shown in the- agreed statement. IHe claims title under a
sheriff's deed of the lot, bearing date October 17th, 1859,
which is in due form, and was duly executed and recorded.
Prior to that time judgment had been recovered against the
city of San Francisco by one of her creditors, in the sum of
one thousand and seventy dollars and twenty-five cents, and
the city failed to pay the amount. Execution was duly issued
on the judgment and delivered to the sheriff of the county
for legal service, and the sheriff, in obedience to the command of the process, sold the lot in question to the purchaser
as the highest bidder.
Title of the plaintiff is deraigned through various mesne
conveyances from the grantee of that deed, as fully explained
in the agreed statement. Parties agree that the lot is below
what was, prior to any improvements, the natural high-water
mark of the bay, and that prior to March 26th, 1851, it was at
all ordinary high tides wholly covered with the tide-waters.
II. 1. Source of the title of the defendant is a deed from
the alcalde of the town, dated December 10th, 1849, to Daniel
O'Brien, a set forth in the transcript, and as confirmed by
the second .ection of the Water-lot Act. He holds that title,

Dec. 1867.]

MUMFORD

V. 'WARDWELL.

Opinion of the court.

whatever it may be, as deraigned through a regular chain of
mesue conveyances from the original grantee. Possession
of the premises was in the defendant at the commencement
of the suit, and it appears that he had been in the actual
possession of the same for the period of three years.
2. Mexican rule came to an end in that department on the
7th of July, 1846, when the government of the same passed
into the control of our military authorities.* Municipal authority also was exercised for a time by subordinate officers
appointed by our military commanders. Such commander
was called military governor, and for a time he claimed to
exercise the same civil power as that previously vested in
the Mexican governor of the department. By virtue (f that
supposed authority, General S.N. Kearney, March 10th, 1847,
as military governor of the territory, granted to the town of
San Francisco all the right, title and interest of the United
States to the beach and water-lots on the east front of the
town, included between certain described points, excepting
such lots as might be selected fbr government use.
Requirement of the grant was, that the Jand granted should
be divided into lots, and that the lots should be sold after
three months' notice, at public auction, for the benefit of the
town. Pursuant to that requirement, numerous lots were
surveyed and laid out, and public sales of the same took
place at various times as recited in the agreed statement.
Lot one hundred and eighty-six was subsequently sold at
public auction by the alcalde of the town, and the same was
conveyed by deed or grant in due form to the original
grantee, under whom the defendant deraigned his title.
3. But the power to grant lands or confirm titles was
never vested in our military governors; and it follows as a
necessary consequence that the grant as originally made was
void and of no effect. Nothing passed to the town by the
grant, and, of course, the doings of the alcalde in selling the
lot in question was a mere nullity.
4. California was admitted into the Union, September 9th,
United States v. Castillero, 2 Black, 149; lomero v. United States, I
Wallace, 743.

436

MUMFORD V. WARDWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1850, and the act of Congress admitting her declares that
she is so admitted on equal footing, in all respects, with the
original States.* Settled rule of law in this court is, that
the shores of navigable waters and the soils under the same
in the original States were not granted by the Constitution
to the United States, but were reserved to the several States,
and that the new States since admitted have the same rights,
sovereignty and jurisdiction in that behalf as the original
States possess within their respective borders.t
When the Revolution took place, the people of each State
became themselves sovereign, and in that character hold the
absolute right to all their navigable waters and the soils
under them, subject only to the rights since surrendered by
the Constitution.1
5. Necessary conclusion is, that the ownership of the lot
in question, when the State was admitted into the Union,
became vested in the State as the absolute owner, subject
only to the paramount right of navigation. Corporate powers were exercised by the city of San Francisco prior to the
time when the State was admitted into the Union, but she
was reincorporated April 15th, 1851, and the agreed statement shows that the lot described in the complaint is within
the corporate limits of the city.
6. Certain lots of land situated in the city and within certain described boundaries were designated in the first section of the act of the 26th of March, 1851, as the beach and
water-lots of the city.ยง Second section of the act granted
the use and occupation of all the land so described to the
city for the term of ninety-nina years, with certain exceptions as therein provided. First, exception was made of all
lands so described which had been previously sold by authority of the ayuntamiento, or town or city council, or by
any alcalde of the town or city, at public auction, ii accordance with the, Kearney grant. Secondly, same exception
9 Stat at Large, 452.
t Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan et al., 3 Howard, 212.
M
Martin et al. v. Waddell, 16 Peters, 410.
Wood's Digest, 519.

Dec. 1867.1

M UMFORD V.

"WARDWELL.

Opinion of the court.

was also made of all lands so described which had been
granted or sold by any alcalde of the city, and confirmed by
the ayuntamiento, or town or city council, and registered or
recorded on or before April 3d, 1850, in some book of record now in the office or custody or control of the recorder
of the county, and the provision is that all such excepted
lands shall be, and the same are hereby, granted and confirmed to the purchasers or grantees or the persons holding
under them, for the term of ninety-nine years. The lot in
question is included within the boundaries described in the
first section of that act, and it appears that it is not any part
of the lands reserved for public use.
7. Based on these facts, the proposition of the defendant
is, that his title is a good one, and that the judgment of the
Circuit Court should be affirmed. First, because it appears
that the lot being within the first exception, never passed to
the city, as it had been previously sold to the original grantee,,
under whom he claims, at public auction, by an alcalde of
the town, in accordance with the terms of the kearney grant.
Secondly, because the lot being within the first section of
the Water-lot Act, and having been sold, confirmed, and registered or recorded as required in the third clause of the
second section of that act, the title to the same under that
sale was ratified to the purchaser by the succeeding clause
of that section. Express admission of the parties is, that
the lot in question is included within the boundaries described in the first section of the Water-lot Act, and the third
section of the same act provides that the original deed by
which any of those lands were conveyed by any ayuntamiento, alcalde, or common council, shall be prina facie

evidence of the title and possession.*
8. Conveyance of the lot in question was previously made
by an alcalde, and the deed of conveyance contains the recital that due public notice of the intended sale was given
before it was exposed to sale, and sold to the original grantee.
Order of sale was passed by the ayuntamiento only ten dayg
* Wood's Digest, 520.

MNIUMFORD

V.

WARDWELL.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

before the sale, but there is nothing in the agreed statement
to prove that the full notice as specified in the grant to the
town had not been previously given as required. Clear in.
ference from the recitals of the deed is, that it had been
previously given, and the burden of disproving the presumption is, by the express words of the third section of the act,
cast upon the party alleging the contrary.
IV..1. Suppose, however, it were otherwise, still the judgment of the Circuit Court is correct, because the agreed
statement shows that the lot in question was sold by an
alcalde, and confirmed by the ayuntamiento, and registered
or recorded within the time required, in a book of record in
the office, custody or control of the recorder of the county.
Confirmation of the sale by the ayuntamiento is clearly
shown, but it is insisted by the plaintiff that the deed was
never registered or recorded within the meaning of that
requirement. Like the military governor, Alcalde Geary
claimed to exercise powers vested in the alcaldes under the
Mexican rule, and following the usages of some of his pre-'
decessors in office, he made his grants in duplicates, and delivered the original to the grantee, and filed the duplinate
copy in his office.
12. Duplicate copies retained in the office were labelled
with the name of the purchaser, number of the lot, and the
class to which the grant belonged. Such duplicates, although
regularly classified and indorsed, were not bound in the form
of a book, but each class was kept in a separate bundle, and
in that state they were passed into the office of the recorder
of the county at its organization. They remained there till
1856, when they were bound into the form of books, each
class forming a separate volume.
3. Those books are the only registry ever.made of the
original titles to these beach and water-lots. Unless it be
held that the grant in this case was registered or recorded
within the meaning of that act, then all the titles are defective, as none of them were registered in any other way.*
"UnitedStates v. Osio, 23 Howard, 279.

Dec. 1867.]

D UMFORD
]
P.

WARDWELL.

Opinion of the court.

Evidently the legislature assumed that some of the lots were
duly registered as required, because the act proceeds to grant
and confirm all such land to purchasers or grantees and
persons holding under th-em, for the same term as the other
lands are granted to the city.
4. Jurisdiction under the Mexican rule had come to an
end more than three years when the Water-lot Act was
passed, and it is a reasonable presumption that the legislature knew what the course of proceeding had been in making
those grants, and in what condition the evidences of the title
were, as they existed in the recorder's office. All the act
required was, that it should appear, if the land had been
sold by an alcalde, that it had been confirmed by the ayuntamiento, and that it had been registered or recorded in
some book of record now in the office, custody or control
of the recorder.
5. Most or all of the grants were made before the office
of recorder of the county was created, and of course it cannot be held that the act required that the grants should have
been recorded by that officer at the time they were issued.,
No such registry was in existence at the time, and the better
opinion is, that the grants of lands so sold and confirmed are'
duly registered or recorded within the meaning of the requirement in all cases where the duplicate copy of the grant was,
at the date of the Water-lot Act, regularly deposited in the
office of the county recorder. Although not bound at that
date, they had been classified and have since been bound
into volumes. Looking at the case in any point of view
consistent with the agreed facts, our conclusion is, that the
plaintiff shows no title, and that the decision of the Circuit
Court was correct.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

