Dec. 1867.]

GRISAR V. McDOWELL.

36

Syllabus.

ciple of any of the numerous cases cited by counsel, or of
others examined by the court.
MJOTION OVERRULED.

IROTE.

This case came on afterwards to be argued on its merits, and
was elaborately so argued by the same.counsel who had argued
the motion to dismiss; but it being discovered by the court that
the bill of exceptions, which occupied seven-tenths of a closelyprinted record of 522 pages, had not been either signed or sealed
by the judge belowMr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the following opinion of the
court.
Whatever might be our opinion of the exceptions which appear in the record, if they were presented in such a way that
we could consider them, we find them beyond our reach. The
bill of exceptions, or what purports to be a bill of exceptions,
covering more than three hundred and fifty pages of the printed
record, is neither signed nor sealed by the judge who tried the
case; and there is nothing which shows that it was submitted
to him or in any way received his sanction.
We are therefore constrained to affirm the judgment, and
it is

ArFIRMED ACCORDINGLY.

GRISAR V. McDOWELL.
3. By the laws of Mexico, which prevailed in California at the date of the
conquest, pueblos or towns, when once established and officially recognized, were entitled, for their benefit and the benefit of their inhabitants,
to the use of lands, embracing the site of such pueblos or towns, and of
adjoining lands within certain prescribed limits. These laws provided for
an assignment to the pueblos of such lands, which were not to exceed in
extent four square leagues. The assignment was to be made by the public
authorities; and the land was to be measured off in a square or prolonged
form, according to the nature and condition of the country. All lands
within the general limits stated, which were required for public purposes, were reserved from the assignment.
2. Until the lands were definitely assigned, the right of the pueblo was an
imperfect one. The government might refuse to recognize it at all, or
might recognizelit in a qualified form, and it might be restricted to less
limits than the four square leagues. After the assignment, the right of

364

GRISAR V. MCDOWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

8.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

use and disposition (a limited one) was subject to the control of the
government of the country.
Though historical evidence ahd judicial decision show that there was a
Mexican pueblo of some kind, on the conquest of California, at what
is now the site of San Francisco one entitled to the usual rights oi
pueblos, no assignment of lands was ever made to it under the former
government. Its right to any lands required, accordingly, recognition
from the United States before it could be turned into an indefeasible
estate; and until the land claimed under the pueblo right was set off and
measured by its authority, the government could set apart and appropriate any portion of it which might be required for public uses.
The necessity of such recognition by the new government is not dispensed
with by the presumption raised by the fourteenth section of the act of
March 3d, 1851, of a grant of land to a town which was proved to have
been in existence on the 7th of July, 1846.
The proceeding in the District Court of the United States in a California
land case, on an appeal from the board of land commissioners, is an original suit, and the whole case is open.
An appeal from a decree of the District Court to the Supreme Court, in
California land cases, suspends the operation and effect of the decree only
when, by a'judgment of the Supreme Court, the claim of the confirmee
in the premises in controversy may be defeated.
In the execution of its treaty obligations with respect to property claimed
under Mexican laws, the government may, if it please, act by legislation
directly upon a claim preferred, withdrawing it from further considera
tion of the courts under the provisions of a general act. Accordingly,
an act by which all the right and title of the United States to the land
within the corporate limits of San Francisco confirmed to the city by
a decree of the Circuit Court, were relinquished and granted to that
city, and the claim of the city was confirmed, subject, however, to the reservations and exceptions designated in the decree, and -upon certainspec fled
trusts, disposed of the city claim, and determined the conditions upon
which it should be recognized and finally confirmed.
The decree of the board of land commissioners in California land cases,
or of the courts of the United States, where it becomes final, takes effect
by relation as of the day when the claim was presented to the board of
land commissioners.
According to the practice of the government, as recognized by Congress,
the President may reserve from sale and set apart for public use, parcels
of land belonging to the United States. And be may modify, by reducing or enlarging it, a reservation previously made. That he has made
the modification on a compromise of an opposing private claim, does not
invalidate the reservation.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for California; the action there
having been to recover possession of a tract of land within
the :t.i f San Francisco.

Dec. 1867.]

(RISAR

V.

McDoWELL.

865

Statement of the case.

The plaintiff claimed as seized in fee under title from the
city of San Francisco. The defendant claimed possession
as an officer of the United States setting up that the property was public property of the United States reserved for
military purposes.
The city's title was thus: It seemed to be sufficiently plain,
from historical evidences and from adjudicated cases, that at
the time of the conquest of California by the :United States,
there was at the present site of San Francisco a pueblo of
some kind; that is to say, that there was a settlement or collection of individuals there having an ayuntamiento composed of alcaldes, regidores, and other municipal officers.*
It seemed sufficiently plain also that there were general
Mexican-laws governing the subject, which authorized territory to an extent not exceeding four square leagues to be
marked out and dedicated to the use of pueblos and of their
inhabitants for certain purposes.
What, however, was the precise nature of this pueblo at
San Francisco, or what the nature of its rights or of pueblo
rights generally in any four leagues, and by what lines these
particular four leagues were to be defined, was not so clear,
nor at all conceded: though it was asserted by the plaintiff
that the four leagues in immediate connection with San Francisco, were to be measured from the presidio of the old
pueblo, the place occupied by the garrison of the town; and
hence were to be bounded of necessity on three sides by
waters of the ocean, the bay, and the Golden Gate. And it

was shown that a line drawn from water to water, east and
west, would segregate in the easiest manner the four leagues
to which, as successor of the former pueblo, the city was
entitled.
If such a line had ever been drawn, the tract now in controversy would have been included within it. But there
was no evidence that any assignment of land had ever in any
* See Dwinelle's Colonial History of the City of San Francisco; Hart v.
Burnett, 16 California, 640; where the general character of the documentary
evidence of the existence of the pueblo, and of the rights it possessed, is set
forth and considered.

GRISAR V. McDGWELL.

[Sup. CLt

Statement of the case.

way been made to the pueblo where San Francisco now
stands, under the former government.
On the 3d of March, 1851, Congress passed the act to as.
certain and settle private land claims in California. This
act by its eighth section makes it the duty of every person
having claims to lands there, to present them for investigation and the evidencein support of them, to a board of commissioners, which was created by the act. The fourteenth
section declared, however, that the general requirements of
this eighth section should not extend to "any town lot, farm
lot or pasture lot held under any grant from any corporation to which lands may have been granted for the establishment of a town by the Spanish or Mexican government, or
the lawful authorities thereof, nor to any city, town, or village lot, which city, town, or village, existed on the 7th day

of July, 1846, but that the claim for the same shall be presented by the corporate authorities of said town," and that
"the fact of the existence of the said city, town, or village,
on the said 7th of July, 1846, being duly proved, shall be
prirNdfaeie evidence of a grant to such corporation."
In July, 1852, the city presented to this board a claim for
the four leagues, praying a confirmation; and in December,
1854, the board confirmed the claim to a portion of the land,
in which portion were embraced the premises now in controversy.
In June, 1855, in virtue of an ordinance known as the
Vian Ness Ordinance, passed by the common council of the
city of San Francisco, and subsequently, in 1868, ratified and
confirmed by the legislature of California, whatever right
the city had to the premises in controversy, on the 1st January, 1855, passed to a party under whom the plaintiff
claimed.
Such was the plaintiff's case.
By the defendant's, it appeared, that in November, 1850,
the President of the United States made, through the War
Department, and in a usual way, an order that a certain
parcel of land described by him, situated on the bay of San

Dec. 1867.]

GRISAR V. M!CI)0WELL.
Statement of the case.

Francisco, California, and which, it was said by one side
here, did, in point of fact, embrace the premises in controversy, and by the other that it did not-should be exempted
from sale and reserved for public purposes. A private claimant to this tract proposing subsequently that certain other
bounds should be substituted, with the understanding that
if this was agreed to by the government he would resign all
pretensions to title within the reservation, as fixed by the
modified boundary proposed, the President, in December,
1851, in compliance with a recommendation to that effect
from the Engineer Department, made in October, 1851,
modified and reduced the reservation, describing it more
particularly, and in such a way as to divide the tract originally reserved into two separate tracts, and, as it was said on
one side here, to include also, land not included in the original order. In one of these tracts, the premises in controversy were embraced.
The fact, therefore, that the President had reserved the
tract for the purposes of the Federal government, was one
part of the defendant's case. Another was this:
In stating the city's title it has been said that the board
of land commissioners, in December, 1854, confirmed the
3laim of the city to a part of the four leagues claimed by it
as a pueblo, which part included these premises. If the
matter had stopped there, the case of the plaintiff might
have been free from question. But it did not stop there.
The sequel was thus:
In March, 1856, a transcript of the proceedings and decision of the board was filed in the District Court of the
United States; this operating under the statute of August
31st, 1852, as an appeal by the party against whom the decision was given. Both City and United States in this case
considered the decision as against them, and both gave notice
of their intention to appeal. The appeal of the 'United
States was, however, on notice of the Attorney-General and
the stipulation of the district attorney, dismissed, and the
city alone prosecuted its appeal. While the appeal was
thus pending in the District Court, Congress passed an

GRIsAR v. McDOWELL.

ESup. Ct

Statement of the case.

act* by virtue of which the case became transferred to the
Circuit Court of the United States. That court, in May,
1865, confirmed the claim of the city to the four leagues, excepting, among others, such parcels of land as had been previously "reserved or dedicated to public uses by the United
States;" meaning by this, the tracts reserved as above mentioned by the then President, Mr. Fillmore. From this decree of the Circuit Court, the United States appealed to the
Supreme Court at Washington.
After the. appeal taken (but previous to the trial in the
present case), Congress relinquished all right of the United
States to land situated within the city of San Francisco,
and confirmed to it by the decree just mentioned, to the
city, and confirmed the city's claim; subject, however, to
the reservations and exceptions designated in that decree,t
and also sabject to certain specified trusts. The appeal of
the United States to the Supreme Court was accordingly
dismissed.
On the trial of the present case the plaintiff objected to
the admission of the evidence of the first reservation of the
President, on account of its indefiuiteness of description,
and because the President could not make a reservation out
of pueblo lands; and of the second one among other reasons
because it was the result of a compromise between the government and an adverse claimant.
iHe objected also, to the admission of the decree mentioned as having been made in the Circuit Court, it being
admitted on the other side that an appeal was taken to it
by the United States and was still pending.
The objections were all overruled; and judgment having
been given for the defendant, the case was now here on
error.
The case, it will be seen, involved essentially the question
of the nature of the title and ownership of lands held by
Mexican pueblos under the laws of Mexico in force in Cal* Act of 1st July, 1864; 13 Stat. at Large, 332.
t Act of March 8th, 1866; "14Stat. at Large, 4.

Dec. 1867.]

GnRSAR V.

M'cDOWELL.

86.9

Opinion of the court.

ifornia, at the date of the conquest of that country, and, to
some extent, of the nature of a pueblo itself.
Messrs. Cashing, Cole, and Reverdyl Johnson, for the plaintiff
in error, contended that, at the time of and long before the
American occupation, San Francisco was an organized pueblo; that as such she was by the Mexican law proprietor in.
fee of four square leagues of land; that the limits of the land
were certain ; that the title was not an inchoate or imperfect
title, but that the entire fee and use-the dominion both
direct and useful-was in the pueblo; a matter on which
they cited the Farlidasand other Spanish authorities; that
being private property, the President had no power to make
a reservation out of it; that the fourteenth section of the act
of March 3d, 1851, was a recognition by the United States
of the pre-existing title of the city, and estopped them from
pretending to title after that; that the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States in the case of UnitedSlates v. The
City of San raneWco, was not admissible in evidence, an appeal having been taken therefrom, which destroyed its effect
as evidence of title; that the decree entered by consent in
the United States District Court, on motion of the United
States District Attorney, that the United States would not
prosecute an appeal from the decree of the board of land
commissioners, and that the city should have leave to proceed upon that decree as upon a final decree, was a final adjudication of the title to the land embraced within it, and
vested the title absolutely in the city.
Xr. Slanbery, A. G., and .IUr.Lae, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The premises, for the possession of which this action is
brought, are situated within the city of San Francisco, in the
State of California. The plaintiff claims to be seized in fee
of them, and derives his title from the city of San Francisco
under an ordinance of the common council for the settlement of land titles in the city, passed on the 20th of June;,
1855, commonly known as the Van Ness ordinance, and the
VOL VI.

24

GRISAR V.

MVcDOWELL.

[Sul). (3t.

Opinion of the court.

act of the legislature of the State ratifying and confirming
the same.
The defendant is an officer in the army of the United
States, commanding the military department of California,
and as such officer entered upon the possession of the premises previous to the commencement of this action, and has
ever since held them under the order of the Secretary of
War, as part of the public property of the United States reserved for military purposes.
At the time the ordinance naflied was passed the city of
San Francisco asserted title, as successor of a Mexican pueblo
in existence on the acquisition of the country, to four square
leagues of land, embracing the site of the present city, and
had presented her claim for the same to the board of land
commissioners created under the act of March 3d, 1851, and
the board had confirmed the claim to a portion of the land,
including the premises in question, and rejectedher claim
for the residue. Dissatisfied with the limitation of her claim,
the city prosecuted an appeal from the decision of the board
to the United States District Court, and this appeal was then
pending and undetermined. By the second section of the
ordinance the city relinquished and granted all the title and
claim, which she thus held to the land within her corporate
limits, as defined by the charter of 1851, with'certain exceptions, to the parties in the actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on or before the 1st of January, 1855,
provided such possession was continued up to the time of
the introduction of the ordinance into the common council,
or if interrupted by an intruder or trespasser, had been or
might be recovered by legal process. In March, 1858, the
legislature of the State ratified and confirmed this ordinance. The party, through whom the plaintiff traces his
title, was in such actual possession of the premises in controversy both at the time designated by the ordinance and
also on the passage of the confirmatory act of the legislature, and therefore acquired whatever right or title the city
possessed; and he improved and cultivated the premises,
and erected a bluilding thereon, which was occupied by the

Dec. 1867.]

VMcDoWELL.
GRISAR V.
Opinion of the court.

plaintiff as his residence when he was ousted by the defendant.
On the other hand, the authorities of the United States,
at the date of the ordinance, and long previous to that date,
claimed the right to hold the premises as property of the
United States, and as being a portion of a tract set apart forl
public purposes. As early as the 5th of November, 1850,
President Fillmore made an order that certain parcels of
land situated "on the bay of San Francisco," should be exempted and reserved from sale for such purposes. Notice
of this order was soon afterwards communicated to the commissioner of the general land office, and in June following
was transmitted by him to the surveyor-general of the United
States for California, in whose office it has ever since remained on file.
On the 81st of December, 1851, this order was modified
by the President in some particulars, and the first parcel reserved, or supposed to have been reserved by it, was divided
into two separate tracts, each of which was described with
precision. 'We do not deem it, therefore, of any consequence
whether the description of the first parcel in the original
order was defective and indefinite, as contended by counsel,
or whether or not it included the premises in controversy.
Nor is it of any consequence that the modification was made,
as asserted, to avoid a possible contest with an adverse
claimant to a portion of the origiiial reservation. The reasons which may have governed the President cannot affect
the validity of his action. He possessed the same authority
in 1851 to modify the reservation of 1850, by enlarging or
reducing it, that he possessed to make the reservation in the
first 'instance. It is sufficient, in the view we take of this
case, that one of the tracts described in the last order embraces the premises in controversy.
The question presented for determination'is, therefore,
between the title of the city of San Francisco, as it existed
on the 1st day of January, 1855, and the title on that day
of the United States.
It must be conceded that there was a pueblo of some kind

GnISAR v. McDOWELL.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

at the site of the city of San Francisco upon the coiquest
of the country by the United States on the 7th of July, 1846.
We say a pueblo of some kind, for the term, which answers
generally to the English word town, may designate a collection of individuals residing at a particular place, a settlement
or a village, or may be applied to a regular organized municipality. The historical evidence, to which we have been
directed in the argument, shows that there was a pueblo'at
that site under the government of an ayuntamiento, composed of an alealde, regidores, and other officers, as early as
1835, and that it continued in existence for some years under
that government, and subsequently until, aid for some time
after the conquest, under the government of justices of the
peace or alcaldes.
It must be conceded, also, that the pueblo, which thus
existed, possessed some claim legal, or equitable to, or some
interest in lands within the limits of four square leagues, to
be assigned and measured off from the northern portion of
the peninsula, upon which the city of San Francisco is situated, and that the city has succeeded to such claim or interest. This has been held by the Supreme Court of the State
after the most elaborate and extended consideration. But
what is of more consequence, and is conclusive upon this
court, it has been so adjudged by the Circuit Court of the
United States, and that adjudication has been made final,
as we shall hereafter see, by the legislation of Congress, and
the dismissal of the appeal to this court, which followed that
legislation.
By the laws of Mexico, which prevailed in California at'
the date of the conquest, pueblos or towns, when once established and officially recognized, were entitled, for Their
benefit and the benefit of their inhabitants, to the use of
lands, embracing the site of such pueblos or towns, and of
adjoining lands within certain prescribed limits. This right,
as we observed in Townsend v. (eeley,* appears to have been
common to the cities and towns of Spain from an early period in her history, and was recognized in the laws and ordi*

5 Wallace, 336.

Dec. 1867.]

GRISAIL V. McIDOwELL.
Opinion of the court.

nances for the settlement and government of her colonies
on this continent. The same general system of laws for the
establishment and government of pueblos, and the assignment to them of lands that prevailed under Spain, was continned in Mexico, with but little variation, after her separation from the mother country. These laws provided for the
assignment to the pueblos, for their use and the use of their
inhabitants, of land not exceeding in extent four square
leagues. Such assignment was to be made by the public
authorities of the government upon the original establishment of the pueblo, or afterwards upon the petition of its
officers or inhabitants; and the land was to be measured off
in a square or prolonged form, according to the nature and
condition of the country. All lands within the general limits
stated, which had previously become private property, or
were required for public purposes, were reserved and excepted from the assignment.
Until the lands were thus definitely assigned and measured
off; the. right or claim of the pueblo was an imperfect one.
It was a right which the government might refuse to recognize at all, or might recognize in a qualified form; it might
be burdened with conditions, and it might be restricted to
less limits than the four square leagues, which was the usual
quantity assigned. Even after the assignment the interest
acquired by the pueblo was far from being an indefeasible
estate such as is known to our laws. The purposes to be
accomplished by the creation of pueblos did not require their
possession of the fee. The interest, as we had occasion to
observe in the case already cited, amounted to little more
than a restricted and qualified right to alienate portions of
the land to its inhabitants for building or cultivation, and to
use the remainder for commons, for pasture lands, or as a
source of revenue, or for other public purposes. And this
limited right of disposition and use was in all particulars
subject to the control of the government of the country.
It is not pretended that any assignment of lands was ever
made to the pueblo of San Francisco under the former government. Her claim or right to any lands being therefore

GRIsAr v. MoDOWELL.

[Sul). Ct

Opinion of the court.

an imperfect one, required the recognition and action of the
new government before it could be turned into an absolute
and indefeasible estate. Nor did it any the less require such
recognition and action by reason of the presumption raised
by the fourteenth section of the act of March 8d, 1851, of a
grant of land to a city, town, or village, which was proved
to have been in existence on the 7th of July, 1846. That
section does not specify the extent of the grant which, for
the purpose of determining the claim of the lot-holders, and
of the city, was to be presumed to have been made; nor does
it furnish any measure by which the limits of such grant
could be fixed. The claim of the city had, therefore, as the
law then stood, to undergo judicial investigation before the
board of land commissioners created under the act of March
3d, 1851, and to depend for its validity and extent upon the
determination of the board, and of the tribunals of the United
States to which it could be carried. The authorities of the
city so regarded the claim, and by their direction it was presented to the board in July, 1852. In December, 1854, the
board confirmed the claim, as we have already stated, to a
portion of the four square leagues, embracing the premises
in suit, and rejected it for the residue. From the decision
an appeal was taken by the filing of a transcript of the proceedings and decision of the board with the clerk of the District Court. The appeal was by statute for the benefit of the
party against whom the decision was rendered; in this case

of both parties-of the United States, which contested the
entire claim, and of the city, which asserted a claim to a
greater quantity than that confirmed-and both parties gave
notice of their intention to prosecute the appeal. Subsequently, in February, 1857, the Attorney-General withdrew
the appeal on the part of the United States, and in March
tollowing, the District Court, upon the stipulation of the district attorney, ordered that appeal to be dismissed, and gave
leave to the city to proceed upon the decree of the board as
upon a final decree. The counsel of the plaintiff contend
that this decree closed the controversy between the city and
the United States as to the lands to which the claim was con-

Dec. 1867.]

GRtISAR V. MoD0WELLS.
Opinion of the court.

firmed. But in this view they are mistaken. Had the city
accepted the leave granted, withdrawn her appeal, and proceeded under the decree as final, such result would have followed. But this course she declined to take. She continued
the appeal for the residue of her claim to the four square
leagues. This kept *pen the whole issue with the United
States. The proceeding in the District Court, though called
in the statute an appeal, was not in fact such. It was essentially an original suit, in which new evidence was given and
in which the entire case was open. That this was the character of the procceding in the District Court follows from the
decision in the case of United Statesv. .Ritchie.* In that case
it was contended that the act of Congress, in prescribing an
appeal from the board of commissioners to the District Court,
was unconstitutional, as the board was not a court under the
Constitution, and could not be invested with any portion of
the judicial power conferred upon the general government;
but this court-Mr. Justice Nelson delivering the opinionheld that the suit was to be regarded as an original proceeding, and that the removal of the transcript papers and evidence into it from the board of commissioners was the mode
provided for its institution in that court.
"The transfer, it is true," said the court, "is called an appeal. We must not, however, be misled by'a name, but look
to the substance and intent of the proceeding. The District
Court is not confined to a mere re-examination of the case
as heard and decided by the board of commissioners, but
hears the case de novo upon the papers and testimony which
had been used before the board, they being made evidence
in the District Court, and also upon such further evidence
as either party may see fit to produce."
The dismissal of the appeal on the part of the United States
did not, therefore, preclude the government from the introduction of new evidence in the District Court, or bind it to
the terms of the original decree.
The authorities cited by counsel to show that when only
* 17 Howard, 533.

GRISAR V.

I

McDOWELL.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

one party appeals from a decree in a California land case,
the other party cannot urge objections to the decree, or insist upon its modification, have no application. They are
adjudications made in cases of appeal from the District Court
to the Supreme Court, where the case is heard on the record
from the court below, and where error upon the record
alleged by the appellant is alone considered, or in cases where
an attempt has been made upon supplementary proceedings
on a survey of the land confirmed to deviate from the terms
of the original decree. Thus, in Malarin v. United States,*
the District Court had affirmed the validity of the grant to
the claimant, but bad limited it to one square league. The
claimant insisted that he was entitled under the grant to a
confirmation of two square leagues, and therefore prosecuted
an appeal. The United States were satisfied with the decree
and did not appeal. The case, therefore, necessarily stood
in this court upon the simple question whether the confirmation should have been for one or for two leagues; and the
court said, that as the government had declined to appeal,
the validity of the grant was not open for consideration.
There is no analogy between this case and the so-called appeal from the board of commissioners to the District Court,
which is only a mode, as we have said, for the institution of
a new suit in that court.
In the case of United States v. Halleck,t the decree of the
board of commissioners described the land confirmed by
specific boundaries. This decree became final by the withdrawal by the United States of the appeal taken on their
behalf. But in the survey of the land an attempt was made
to change the meaning of the language of the decree, by
showing that the commissioners were ignorant of the course
and direction of the American River, one of the boundaries
prescribed, and, therefore, intended different lines from those
specifically declared. To this the court said, that the decree
was a finality, not only on the question of title, but as to the
boundaries which it specified; that if it were erroneous in
*1

Wallace, 282.

t 1 Wallace, 439.

Dec. 1867.]

GRISAR V. McDoWVELL.
Opinion of the court.

either particular the remedy 'was by appeal; but that the
appeal having been withdrawn by the government, the question of its correctness was forever closed. In other words,
the court held that a decree which had become final, could
not be disregarded or deviated from in the subsequent proceedings taken for its execution. Between the doctrine here
asserted and the doctrine contended for by the counsel of
the plaintiff there is no analogy.
The case of the city remained in the District Court on her
appeal until 1864. On the 1st of July of that year, Congress passed an act "to expedite the settlement of titles to
land in the State of California." By the fourth section of
this act the District Courts of California were authorized to
transfer cases for the determination of claims to land under
the aet of March 3d, 1851, pending before them on appeal,
to the Circuit Court of the United States, when they affected
the titles of lands within the corporate limits of any city or
town. Under this act, the District Court, in September following, transferred the city case to the Circuit Court, and
in October, that court confirmed the claim of the city to four
square leagues, subject to certain exceptions, among which
were all such parcels of land as had been previously "reserved or dedicated to public uses by the United States."
The decree upon this adjudication was finally settled and
entered on the 18th of lay, 1865. An appeal from it was
taken by the United States to the Supreme Court; and the
pendency of this appeal was made the ground of objection
to the admissibility of the decree when it was offered in evidence. The appeal, it was contended, suspended the operation of the decree and took from it all efficacy as evidence
of title. Such undoubtedly is the general effect of an appeal
in these land cases; that is to say, the decrees rendered by
the District Court cannot support the title of the confirmees
or of parties claiming under them pending appeals therefrom, when by the judgment of the appellate court the claims
ofthe confirmees in the premises in controversy may be defeated. But in this case no such result could have followed
from any judgment of the Supreme Court. The objection

78

GRISAR v. McDOWILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the plaintiff was prompted'by the fact that the defendant
contended, and, as we shall show, contended correctly, that
the lands reserved by the decree from the confirmation to
the city included the premises in controversy. Assuming
that to have been the fact, the judgment of the Supreme
Court could not have affected in any respect the title of the
plaintiff. That court would have heard the case upon the
record, and if it had not afflrined the decree, would have reversed it, or have modified it only in the particulars in which
error was alleged by the appellant. A judgment in favor
of the United States could only have had the effect either of
defeating the entire claim of the city or of restricting its extent in a still greater degree: it could not have removed the
exception made in it of the lands reserved for public uses.
But there is another and conclusive answer to the objection to the admissibility of the decree. By the action of
Congress it had become, with some modificitions, final. On
the 8th of March, 1866, which was previous to the trial of
this action, Congress passed an act "to quiet the title to certain lands within the corporate limits of the city of San Francisco."* By this act all the right and title of the United
States to the land situated within the corporate limits of San
Francisco, confirmed to the city by the decree of the Circuit
Court, were relinquished and granted to the city, and the
claim of the city was confirmed, subject, however, to the reservations and exceptions designated in the decree, and upon
the trust that all the land, not previously granted to the city,
should be disposed of and conveyed by the city to parties in
the bonafide actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on the passage of the act, in such quantities and upon
such terms and conditions as the legislature of the State of
California might prescribe, except such parcels thereof as
might be reserved and set apart by ordinance of the city for
public uses.
By this act the government has expressed its precise will
with respect to the claim of the city of San Francisco to her
* Statutes of 1865-6, p. 4.

Dec. 1867.]

Gm SAR V. McD0WELL.
Opinion of the court.

lands, as it was then recognized by the Circuit Court of the
United States. In the execution of its treaty obligations
with respect to property claimed under Mlexican laws, the
government may adopt such modes of procedure as it may
deem expedient. It may act by legislation directly upon
the claims preferred, or it may provide a special board for
their determination, or it may require their submission to
the ordinary tribunals. It is the sole judge of the propriety
of the mode, and having the plenary power of confirmation
it may annex any conditions to the confirmation of a claim
resting upon an imperfect right, which it may choose. It
may declare the action of the special board final; it may
make it subject to appeal; it may require the appeal to go
through one or more courts, and it may arrest the action of
board or courts at any stage.
The act of March 3d, 1851, is a generdl act applying to all
cases, but the act of March 8th, 1866, referring specially to
the confirmation of the claim to lands in San Francisco, with-

drew that claim, as it then stood, from further consideration
of the courts under the provisions of the general act.

It dis-

posed of the city claim, and determined the conditions upon
which it should be recognized and confirmed. The title of
the city, therefore, rests upon th decree of the Circuit Court
as modified by the act of Congress. The subsequent dismissal of the appeal, referred to in the case of Ibwnsend v.
Greeley,* though made upon consent of parties, necessarily
followed.
The decree thus modified excepts from confirmation to
the city, as we have a.lready observed, such parcels of land
as had been previously "reserved or dedicated to public
uses by the United States." By the parcels thus named,
reference is had to the tracts reserved by the orders of President Fillmore. One of these tracts, as we have said, contains the premises in controversy. The decree therefore
settles the title to them against the plaintiff. Whoever obtained conveyances from the city, or asserted title under the
* 5 Wallace, 337.

(GRISAR V. -AcDowFLL.

[SUP. (it

Opinion of the court.

Van Ness ordinance, whilst the claim of the city to the land
thus conveyed, or to which title was thus asserted, wao nending before the tribunals of the United States, necessarily
took whatever they acquired subject to the final determination of the claim. Their title stood or fell with the claim,
for the decree took effect by relation as of the day when the
petition of the city was presented to the board of land commissioners. It is to be treated in legal effect as if entered
on that day.*
It only remains to notice the objection taken to the authority of the President to make the reservations in question.
The objection is twofold-first, that the lands reserved did
not constitute any part of the public domain, but were the
property of the city, and were not therefore the subject of
appropriation, by order of the President, for public purposes; and second, if they did constitute a part of the public
domain, they could only be reserved from sale and set apart
for public purposes under the direct sanction of an act of
Congress.
The first objection has been sufficiently answered in considering the nature of the claim of the city. It was not a
claim to a tract which had been specifically defined; it was
a claim only to a specific quantity, embracing, it is true, the
site of the pueblo and adjoining lands, but which had yet to
receive its precise limits and bounds from the officers of the
government. Until this was done, the government was not
precluded from setting apart and appropriating any portions
of the lands claimed, which might be necessary for public
uses. Until then the claim of the city was subservient to
the right of the government in this respect.
On the other hand, if the lands were at the time a part of
the public domain, as they must be considered to be, because
they have been excluded from the land§ confirmed to the
city in satisfaction of the claim, it is of no consequence to
the plaintiff whether or not the President possessed sufficient
authority to make the reservations in question. It is enough
Landes -v. Brant, 10 Howard, 373.

Pee. 1867.]

GRISAR V.

MICDOWELL.

Opinion of the court.

that the title had not passed to the plaintiff, but remained
in the United States. But further than this: from an early
period in the history of the government it has been the practice of the President to order, from time to time, as the exigencies of the public service required, parcels of land belonging to the United States to be reserved from sale and set
apart for public uses.
The authority of the President in this respect is recognized in numerous acts of Congress. Thus, in the Preemption Act of May 29th, 1830, it is provided that the right
of pre-emption contemplated by the act shall not "extend to
any land which is reserved from sale by act of Congress,
or by order of the President, or which may have been appropriated for any purpose whatever."* Again, in the Preemption Act of September 4th, 1841, "Lands included in any
reservation by any treaty, law, or proelarnationof the President
of the United States, or reserved for salines or for other purposes," are exempted from entry under the act.t So by the
act of March 3d, 1853, providing for the survey of the public
lands in California, and extending the prt-emption system
to them, it is declared that all public lands in that State shall
be subject to pre-emption, and offered at public sale, with
certain specific exceptions, and among others "of lands appropriated under -the authority of this act, or reserved by corpetent authority."$ The provisions in the acts of 1830 and
1841 show very clearly that by "competent authority," is
meant the authority of the President, and officers acting
under his direction.§
The action of the President in making the reservations in
question was indirectly approved by the legislation of Congress in appropriating moneys for the construction of fortifications and other public works upon them. The reservations made at the same time embraced seven distinct tracts

of land, and upon several of them extensive and costly fortifications and barracks and other public buildings have been
erected.
* 4 Stat. at Large, 421.

Wolcott v. Des

t 5 Id. 456.
loines Co., 6 Vallace, 688.

1 10 !d

'46.

THE VICTORY.

[SLIP. Ct.

Statement of the case.

But it is sufficient, as we have already said, that the lands
remained the property of the United States, whether or not
they were by sufficient authority appropriated to public uses.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE VICTORY.
Before this court can entertain jurisdiction to review a judgment of the
State court, it must appear that one of the questions mentioned in the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act was raised in the State court,
and actuallydecided by it; that is to say, the question must have received
the consideration or attention of the court. It is not sufficient that this
court can see that it ouglt to have been raised, and that it might have
beqn decided.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
The twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act provides that
a final judgment in the highest court of a State where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of any State, on
the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, and the decision is in favor of such validity,
may be re-examined in this court.
With this law in force, and under a statute of the State of
Missouri, which authorized apparently a proceeding in rern
against vessels for supplies furnished to them, Boylan filed a
petition in one of the State courts of Missouri against the
Steamboat Victory (which was made defendant to the suit),
for supplies furnished in her home port at the request of her
owner, and for which he claimed a lien on the vessel to the
amount of $4214. The items of the account were set forth
in a bill of particulars accompanying the petition, and the
plaintiffs prayed for a warrant of seizure, on judgment, and
for sale of the boat to satisfy their claim.
The owner of the vessel appeared and filed an answer, in
which he admitted $500 of the claim to be due, and to be a
lieu on the boat, but denied that any other items or amounts

