Dec. 1867.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

611

Syllabus.

Neither investmcnt nor the value of the deposits being
mentioned in the provision, it seems clear that they are unimportant in this investigation,,as the amount of the tax is
the same whether the deposits, on the day named, have or
have not been invested, and whether they are above the par
value or of no value at all. Moneys received constitute deposits in the sense in which the word is used in that provision, and the total amount of such deposits on that day fuirnishes the true basis of computation, wholly irrespective of
their market value or of the disposition made of the funds
by the defendants.*
Looking at the case in any point of view, we are of the
opinion that there is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, GRIER, J., and MILLER, J., dissented; on the ground that the tax was a tax on the property
and not upon the franchises and privileges of the plaintiff
in error.
[See the next case.-REP.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.
1. The preceding case (Soeiely for Savings v. Coite) affirmed and declared to
be applicable to this case.
2. Under the constitution and laws of Massachusetts, as interpreted by its
highest court prior to the present case, in two cases not involving any
question under the Judiciary Act, and by long usage, a statute which
enacts that every institution for saving incorporated under the laws of
that commonwealth, shall pay to the commonwealth "a tax on account of its depositors" of a certain percentage "on the amount of its deposits., to be assessed, one-half of said annual tax on the average amount
of its deposits for the six months preceding the 1st of Mtay, and the average amount of its deposits for the six months preceding the 1st of November," -'s to be regarded as a franchise tax, not as a tax on property,
and is valid. Nor is there anything inconsistent with this view in the
dec*sions of this court
Savings Bank v. Collector, 3 Wallace, 514.

612 PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHTSL S.[Sup. Ct.
Statement of the case.
8. Accordingly, a savings institution in Massachusetts having a portion of
its deposits invested in Federal securities declared by the act of Con
gress authorizing their issue to be exempt from taxation under State
authority, is liable under the above statute to a tax on account of such
deposits as on account of others.

THIS case, which came here on writ of error to the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, involved as a general matter
the same question as the case just preceding; to wit, the taxation by State legislatures of Federal securities held by savings banks created by them; the difference betweon the two
cases being that the question in the former case arose under
a statute of Connecticut having one form of language, and
in this case arose under -a statute of Massachusetts having
another form, more or less different.
The present case was thus:
A statute of Massachusetts of 1862 (entitled "An act to
levy taxes on certain insurance companies and on depositors in savings banks") provides by its fourth section that
every institution for savings incorporated under the laws
of that commonwealth, should pay to the commonwealth
" a ftax on account of its depositors of one-half of one per cent.
per annum* on the amount of its deposits, to be assessed, onehalf of said annual tax on the average amount of its deposits for
the six months preceding the first day of May, and the other,
on the average amount of its deposits for the six months preceding the first day of November."
The act by its twelfth section exempted "all property
taxed" under the above section from taxation for the current year in which the tax was paid; and relieved savings
banks from making return of deposits in accordance with the
provisions of previous statutes.
With this statute in existence, the Provident Institution
for Savings, a corpQration having no property except its deposits and the property in which they were invested, and
authorized by the general statute of Massachusetts to receive
money on deposit for the use and benefit of the del ositors,
*

By Act of 1863, increased to three-fourths of one per cent. per annum.

Dec. 1867.] PROVIDENT INSTITUTION

V.

MASSACHUSETTS.,

613

Argument against the tax.

and to invest its dep~osits in securities of the United States, had
as its average amount of the deposits f6r the six months
preceding the first day of May, 1865, $8,047,652.19, of
which $1,327,000 stood invested in public funds of the
United States, exempt by law of the United States from
taxation under State authority. It paid all taxes asked of
it except on the portion which stood thus invested; upon
that it declined to pay a tax. Oh suit brought by the commonwealth to recover the same, the Supreme Judicial Court
of that State, regarding the taxing as one on franchise and
not on property, and therefore lawful, gave judgment for
the commonwealth.
On error here, the question was the correctness of this
judgment; in other words, whether the State by force of the
statutes could exact the tax on that portion of the society's
deposits which was invested in the public funds of the United
States ?
Messrs. Bonney and Bartlett,for the plaintiff in error:
I. It may be stated as a fact, that up to the time of the
statute of 1862, the taxes on deposits in savings banks were
assessed directly to the depositors. But as the Supreme
Court of the State has declared,* a large portion of such
deposits being under $500 in amount, and for that reason
not included in the returns to assessors, required by general
statute, usually escaped taxation.
The purpose, then, of the act of 1862 was to change the
form of taxation of the property of depositors, so as to prevent its escaping complete taxation when assessed, as it previously had been, in the annual valuation of the property of
individuals.
1. The title of the act declares it to be "An act to levy
taxes . .

.

. on depositors in savings banks."

2. The act itself, in one section, declares that every savings
bank shall pay to the commonwealth an annual tax, "on account of its depositors, of one and one-half per cent.," &c. Ir.
Bigelow, C. J., 5 Allen, 437.

614

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHtUSETTS.

[Sup. Ot

Argument against the tax.

another, that "all property" thus taxed "shall be otherwise
exempt from taxaiion for the current year."
3. The Supreme Court of Massachusetts has settled, in a
case which involved no question as to the taxation of United States
securities, that by the true construction of this act it imposed
the new tax solely on the corporation and not upon the "money
in its hands belonging to depositors," and this concludes that
question.*
Since the design was to make the tax of that property
more complete, and more like the mode of taxing other like
property, the inference is cogent that the substituted tax
was also on property, and not a bonus for a franchise, if indeed that distinction is of any importance, which we assert
that it is not.
But whatever may have been the purpose, the act shows
that the assessment is direct upon the property of the corporation.
I
IL. The laws of the United States provide that securities
of the United States shall be exempt from taxation by or
under State authority.
What avails it to the citizen who has lent-his money to
the government that the constitution or laws of the United
States declare its public stocks exempt from State taxation,
if a State may, under the pretence of shifting taxation from
property to franchise, impose it as an excise or duty on the
privilege he enjoys of pursuing his avocation, acquiring or
holding property, or other" franchise,"-to be "estimated,"
"apportioned" or "graduated" by the amount of all the
property he possesses, however invested?
That State has virtually said: "Savings banks hold all
their deposits in strict trust for their depositors; they must
invest them only in certain designated property; in the more
hazardous, only in limited amounts. But there is one class
-the public funds of the United States, an especially convenient and safe investment-by the laws and decisions of
the United States exempt from State taxation in their hands,
* Commonwealth v. Savings Bank, 5 Allen, 432.

Dec. 1867.] PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

615

Argument in support of the tax.

and therefore especially inviting; in these they may invest
without limit, all their assets, if they choose."*
The savings banks have no sooner availed themselves of
this privilege, and invested largely in this property, than the
State demands of them a tax of three.fourth of one per cent.
per annum on all their deposits !
What matters it to either the savings banks or the United
States what the theory of the tax is; whether it be on franchise or deposits? The one knows that if it had not the
deposits it would not have the tax. The other that they can
borrow money no better under one mode of taxation than
under the other.
This new device of substantially taxing property, and declaring it to be a tax upon a franchise, requires to be carefully watched, or the government will be largely crippled in
its means of borrowing money. Technically, a franchise is
a special right conferred by government on designated individuals, but the same doctrine is applicable to all special
pursuits of the citizens. Massachusetts, accordingly, taxes
for what is called faculty (which is a franchise or right held
under general laws), numerous classes of persons. If, under
the guise of taxing the exercise of the various pursuits
of life, all property used or acquired in those pursuits
is declared the measure of its enjoyment, and the rate of
taxation governed by it, it is clear that the exemption
from taxation attached by law to United States securities
is futile.
Mr. Allen, Attorney- General of Massachusetts,contra:
The general proposition to be maintained on the part of
the commonwealth of Massachusetts is, that the present is
in the nature of an excise laid upon the franchises of savings
institutions, and not upon their property; and that, this being so, no abatement should be made by reason of government securities held by them.
1. In Massachusetts it is, and long has been, customary to
* General Statutes, chap. 57, H 141-145.

616

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the tax.

tax or lay an excise upon franchises, independently of property. The authority to do this is derived from that clause
of the constitution which authorizes the legislature "to
impose and levy reasonable duties and excises upon any
produce, goods, wares,.merchandise and commodities whatsoever, brought into, produced, manufactured, or being
within the same."*
The term "comrnodities" includes the privilege of carrying on any kind of business. In early times, under this
clause of the constitution, excises upon inuholders, the recording of deeds, the commissions of numerous public officers, and the admission of attorneys, were levied and collected, as excises upon "commodities." t
Now the tax laid upon a corporation in Massachusetts is
ordi narily an excise or duty upon the privilege of doing business in a corporate form; and this, as is paid in Portland
Bank v. Apthop,J decided in 1815, affirmed A.D. 1862 in
Commonwealth v. People's Five Cents Savings Banlk,§ has always
been considered as an excise on a "commodity," within the
meaning of the constitution.
This system is quite different from that of some other
States. In NYew York, "all taxation is upon property;" property, exclusive of franchises. In Bank Tax Case,jj it is expressly stated that the tax in iNew York is not a franchise
tax, but a property tax. And in that case a valuation of
the property was made, and not a valuation of the franchise.
Considered as a property tax, confessedly the present tax
,ould not be supported even under the constitution of Massachusetts. This has been twice adjudged in Massachusetts,
to wit, in Commonwealth v. People'sFive Cents Savings Bank,
and in Commonwealth v. ProvidentInstitutionfor Savings.** The
doctrine has been recognized in several other cases. The
reason is, that it is not proportional. No question was raised
concerning the effect of holding government bonds in Corn* Constitution of Massachusetts, pt. 2, c. 1,
:
t Massachusetts Stat., 179.5, c. 80.
5 Allen, 431.
**
5 Allen, 428.

1, Art. 4.
12 Massachusetts, 252.
2 Wallace, 209.
12 Id.,312.

Dec. 1867.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETfS.

617

Argument in support of the tax.

7nonwealth v. People'sFire Cets Savings Bank. It was simply
a question under the State constitution. That decision, arrived at under those circumstances, and repeatedly recognized since, settles the law for Massachusetts, except so far
as it may be modified by the decision- of this court, in reference to government securities. This consideration furnishes
a strong argument to show that the legislature did not design the tax to be a property tax. It intended to act within
the constitution, and a construction which is consistent with
the constitution should be given to their acts, if possible.
The practical question for this court to determine now is,
whether, after such a decision, made under such circumstances, this court will feel at liberty to inquire into its correctness after the lapse of years, simply because a new fact,
now for the first time existing, and not affecting the principle, gives this court the power to do so. Such a course
would virtually do away with the rule that the construction
given by the highest State court to the State constitution
and statutes, shall be binding upon this court.
2. But this tax is not a property tax. It does not depend
on the amount of property held by the savings institution,
but it depends upon its capacity to exercise the privileges
conferred by the charter. It does not depend on any valuation of property, but on the average amount which has stood
to the credit of the depositors.
The average amount of deposits, and the amount of property owned by the institution, may be widely apart.
If not a property tax, this must be considered as a franchise tax.
If a franchise tax, no abatement should be made on the
ground that the corporation may hold government securities. The tax is laid upon the capacity, or power, or privilege, or franchise to make. investments; this capacity is
measured by the average amount of deposits received; but
it is wholly immaterial whether the savings institution exercises this privilege or not. Not being laid upon the property at all, it matters not whether the bank held Federal
securities or not.

618

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[8up. C1.

Reply against the tax.

Reply:
Neither the PortlandBank v. Apthorp nor the Commonwealth v. -People'sFive Cents Savings Bank touches or disposes
of any other question than these, viz.:
1. - That the tax in both of them was not a tax under the
clause -of the State constitution giving authority to the

legislature " to impose and levy proportionateand reasonable
assessments, rates, and taxes upon all the inhabitants qf, and
persons resident and estates lying within, the commonwealth," because those taxes must be proportionate upon all persons
and property within the State.
2. That the only other power of taxation under the State
constitution was to be found in these words: " To impose

and levy reasonableduties and excises upon any produce, goods,
wares, and merchandise and commodities whatsoever, brought
into, produced, manufactured, or being within the State."
In the discussion of the grounds on which the tax is held
to be a corporate charge, and not one on depositors, the
court state that it is "the extent to which the corporation

has exercised the franchise during a certain period that is
made the basis on which to estimate the sum to be paid for
the enjoyment of the privilege," and that it is a reasonable
basis. But they were not called on to, and did not decide
whether this measure of enjoyment, viz., "the amount of its
deposits," was a measure fixed by property.
Nor did they decide in either of those cases that a franchise tax thus authorized was not, or could not be, either in
substance or form, a tax on, or measured by, the property

of the corporations.
As, therefore, until the decision of the present cause,
there had been no adjudication that the tax was not upon
the property of the corporation, but merely that it was not
a tax on depositors, we turn again to the act, and finding
that; these same deposits had, prior to the act, been taxed
as property to the depositors, and that the act merely shifts
the tax to the corporation, and exempts depositors from tax
on it; and add to this the language and scope of the act

which lays a tax (not "a duty" or "excise") on account of

Dec. 1867.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

619

Reply against the tax.

depositors, on the amount of deposits,-we submit that the
tax must be deemed as still a tax on property.
The suggestion of opposing counsel that the tax may be
measured not by property in e.se, but by something that may
have been lost or passed away, assumes that all taxation is
indispensably restricted to property in immediate enjoyment
when the tax is laid. It is not obvious why it may not be
legally based upon property enjoyed and consumed during
the year. It certainly is or may be so as to income, and yet
such tax would be measured by property.
In the Bank Tax Case,* 'the tax was like the one upon this
corporation. It was upon "a valuation equal to the amount
of the capital stock, paid in, or secured to be paid 'in, and
their surplus earnings." There was no appraisement of the
true value of the capital stock, which might have been diminished by losses, leaving no surplus earnings, but it was
held to be a tax fixed and measured by an approximate
valuation. The arguments by which the tax was attempted
to be sustained were in all respects the same that are urged
in this case, viz., that it was a tax on a franchise and not on
property; but they failed, and the reasoning of the court as
to the character of the tax is full and conclusive.
But, if this court should follow the opinion of the State
court, and hold the tax to be one founded on the consideration of the grant of a charter, it will not advance the caluse.
The question still remains, Is the tax, whatever its consideration, a tax on property ? and we subfiit1. That there is nothing in the constitution or laws of the
State that prevents an annual tax for a franchise from being
laid, so to speak, directly on and measured by the property
of the corporation ; and this excludes the suggestion that the
tax in question must be deemed not to have been intended
to be laid on property, since the power to so levy it is,
we submit, unquestionable. The clause in the constitution
which authorizes a tax on a franchise as a "commodity,"
embraces " any goods, wares, and.merchandise," &c. A tax
* 2 Wallace, 201.

U20

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the court.

[Sup. Ct.

/

on them must be in the popular sense a tax on property.
Why may it not be so, if on a franchise?
2. That if the true purpose and construction of the act
were as thus contended, yet it is not perceived why, if a tax
be upon property, or measured by the amount of property,
it is material whether the liability to such taxation rests
upon, or is in consideration of, a grant of corporate powers.
If this act had distinctly assessed a tax upon a valuation of
the entire property of the appellants, and declared it to. be a
tax levied in consideration of the grant of corporate powers,
would that not be a tax upon its property? and if among
that property United States securities were found, would not
they be exempted ?
3. Rightly speaking, no taxis upon property or upon a franchise. It is upon persons or parties holding and enjoying
such property or franchise, and in consideration of such
holding and enjoyment.
4. If it be asked, Can no tax be legally laid on a special
franchise granted by the State? we answer, that doubtless
a bonus may be reserved and fixed at the time, and by the
terms of the grant, or a tax may be laid fairly, governed by
the emoluments or benefits derived, or that might be derived, from the enjoyment of the privilege. But a tax under
this guise, on or measured by all the capital employed in
the use of this privilege, is a tax on property.
II. There remains the broad ground on which the case
may and ought perhaps to be put, viz., that under no form
can the Federal securities be practically rendered by State
legislation less valuable.*
Mr. Justice OLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Institutions for savings incorporated under the laws of
Massachusetts, are required by law to pay to the treasurer
of the commonwealth a tax on account of their depositors
of three-fourths of one per cent. per annum on the amount
of their deposits. Half the amount of such annual tax is to
The reader desirous to see further argument on both sides of this question, can refer to the arguments in the preceding case, pp. 595-602.

Dec. 1867.1 PROVIDENT

INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

621

Opinion of the court.

be assessed on the average amount of such deposits for the
six months preceding the first day of Mlay, and the other
half on the average amount of their deposits for the six
months preceding the first day of November in each year.
Semi-annual returns are required to be made by the corpo;:
ration, specifying the amount of their deposits on those days.
and the average amount for the six months next preceding;
and the provision is, that the property taxed under that section, or under the section preceding it, "shall be otherwise
exempt from taxation for the current year in which the tax
is paid."*
Average amount of deposits in the institution standing to
the credit of depositors for the six months preceding the first
day of May, 1865, was $8,047,652.19, of which $1,327,000
were invested in the public funds of the United States. Due
returns were made by the corporation defendants, and they
paid the percentage on the whole amount of the deposits not
invested in the national public funds.
Corporations neglecting to pay such a tax are made liable,
by the eleventh section of the act, for the amount withheld,
with costs and interest, in an action of assumpsit in the
name of the commonwealth. Proceedings were accordingly
commenced, and the parties submitted the controversy to
the State court upon an agreed statement of facts, which is
exhibited in the record. Judgment was rendered for the
plaintiff for the balance of the tax, with costs and interest,
and the defendants sued out a writ of error under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, and removed the cause
into this court.
By their charter the corporation defendants were empow
ered to receive deposits from any person or persons disposed
to become depositors, and to use and improve the same to
the best advantage, but they were required to apply and divide the income or profit thereof, with reasonable deductions,
among the persons making the deposits.t
Sessions Laws, 1862, pp. 198-9; Ibid. 1863, p. 479.

f

5 Special Laws, 172.

622

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Such corporations may receive on deposit, for the use and
benefit of the depositors, all sums of money offered for that
purpose, but recent legislation provides that they shall not
hold of one depositor, other than a religious or charitable
,corporation, more than one thousand dollars at the same
time. They may invest such deposits in first mortgages of
real estate, or in the stock of the State banks, or in the public
funds of the State or of certain other States, oi of the United
States, or the deposits may be loaned to any city, county or
town in the State, or on notes with a pledge of any of those
securities as collateral.*
I. Most of the questions involved in this record were very
carefully considered in the case The Society for Savings v. oite,
argued at the present term,t and received the conclusive
determination of the court. Extended argument in .support
of that judgment is unnecessary, as we are entirely satisfied
with our conclusions and with the reasons assigned therefor
at the time the judgment was rendered.
- Substance of the points determined in that case, so far as
they are applicable in this controversy, may be stated as follows: (1) That the securities issued by the United States
declared by act of Congress to be exempt from taxation,
cannot be taxed by the States for any purpose. (2) That
power to borrow money on the credit of the United States is
conferred upon Copngress, and that inasmuch as the Constitution and the laws of Congress passed in pursuance thereof
are made the supreme law of the land, it follows that the
action of Congress in the exercise of that power is shielded
from every species of unfriendly State legislation. (3) That
the States cannot tax the instruments of the Federal government nor the means employed by Congress to carry into
effect the powers conferred in the Federal Constitution, although their authority is undeniable to tax all subjects over
which the sovereign power of the State extends. (4) That
State laws requiring savings institutions authorized by law
*General Statutes, 317.

et The preceding case.-REP,

Dec. 1867.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

623

Opinion of the court.

to receive deposits, but without authority to issue bills and
having no capital stock, to pay annually into the State treasury a sum equal to three-fourths of one per cent. on the
total amount of their deposits on a given day, in lieu of all
other taxes, are properly regarded as imposing a franchise
tax, and not a tax on property. (5) That the privileges and
franchises of a private corporation, unless exempted in terms,
which amount to a contract, are as much the legitimate subject of taxation as any other property of the citizen which
enjoys the protection and is within the control of the sovereign power of the State. (6) That corporate franchises
are legal estates, and not mere naked powers, but powers
coupled with an interest which vest in the corporation by
virtue of their charter. (7) That private corporations and
all trades and avocations by which the citizens acquire a
livelihood may be taxed by the State for the support of the
State government. (8) That such authority resides in the
States independent of the Federal government, and that it is
wholly unaffected by the fact that the party,*whether corporation or individual, has or has not made investments in
Federal securities. (9) That the power rests in the discretion of the legislature to decide whether the sum to be levied
shall be a fixed one, and, if not, to determine in what manner and by what means the amount shall be determined.
Those several propositions, except perhaps the fourth, are
as applicable to the present case as to that in which they
were announced, and it is clear that nothing is left in this
record for decision save the question whether the tax imposed in this case is to be regarded as a tax on property or
a tax on the privileges and franchises of the corporation.
Taxation in that State is regulated to a certain extent by
the constitution of the State, adopted in 1780, and which-is
still in force, and in that respect without alteration. Full
power and authority are therein given to the legislature "to
impose and levy proportional and reasonable assessments,
rates, and taxes upon all the inhabitants of and persons
resident, and estates lying within the said commonwealth,
and also to impose and levy reasonable duties and excises

624

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

upon any produce, goods, wares, merchandise, and com
modities whatsoever, brought into, produced, manufactured,
or being within the same." First judicial exposition of that
clause was given in the year 1815, in a case which was fully
considered, and of much importance, and which remains unquestioned to the present time.*
Incorporated banks were required by the act of the legislature, passed June 23d, 1812, to pay annually to the treasurer of the State, for the use of the same, a tax of one-half
of one per cent. on the amount of the original stock issued
to the stockholders.t Due assessment of the tax was made,
and the bank failing to pay the amount, it was collected by
warrant of distress, and th bank instituted an action of
trespass against the treasurer of the State, who issued the
warrant.
Several objections were taken to the assessment, which it
becomes important to notice: (1) That the tax was illegal,
because it was not equal and proportional, as required by
the constitution. (2) That the bank could not be made
liable to the tax, because their charter was granted long before the statute imposing the tax was passed. (3)That the
legislature could not select any specific property as the subject of taxation, and assess the owner for it separately and
distinctly from his equal and proportional share of such
taxes as were required of all other inhabitants.
Views of the court were, however, that the law was perfectly consistent with the constitution, with the rights of the
complaining corporation, and with the practice of the State
under the constitution, from the time of its adoption.
Although such was the unanimous conclusion of the court
in the case, still they all distinctly held that, under the first
branch of the power conferred, the requisition upon the
bank could not be justified, because the condition annexed
to the power to impose and levy assessments, rates, and
taxes, as given in the constitution, is that the taxes shall be
* Portland Bank v. Apthorp, 12 Massachusetts, 252.
f 4 Massachusetts Laws, 317.

Dec. 1867.]

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

625

Opinion of the court.

proportional "upon all the inhabitants of, persons resident,
and estates lying within the commonwealth;" that the due
exercise of that power requires an estimate, or valuation, of
all the property in the State, and that the assessment upon
each individual shall be according to his proportion of that
property.
Express determination of the court was, that the legislature could not select any company or individual of any
specific article of property and assess them by themselves,
Ps that would be a violation of that provision of the constitution which requires that the taxes shall be proportional.
They also held that the object of the charter was to enable
the corporation to condnct their business as an individual,
to make contracts, and enforce them as such, avoiding the
inconvenience of a copartnership; that inasmuch as there
was no express waiver in the charter of the'power to impose

a duty or excise, it could not be held that the legislature
had relinquished that right, and that a tax upon all the banks
in the State was justifiable under the second branch of that
clause.
Operation and effect of the term excise, as used in that
clause, are limited to "any produce, goods, wares, merchan-

dise, and commodities," but the court regarded the latter
word as, perhaps, embracing everything which may be the
'3ubjcct of taxation, and stated that it had been applied by
the legislature from the earliest practice under the constitution, as authorizing a tax upon the privilege of pursuing
particular branches of business and employment. They
defined the term to mean "convenience, privilege, profit,
and gains," and affirmed that the legislature, by virtue 'of
it, had exercised the right for thirty years, without complaint, of exacting annually a sum of money from auc-

tioneers, attorneys, tavern-keepers, and retailers of spirituous liquors. Money exacted in such cases, say the court, is
not a proportional tax, nor is it an excise or duty upon any
produce, goods, wares, or merchandise, but "it is a commodity, convenience, and privilege which the legislature, hy
contemporaneous construction of the constitution, assumed.
vOL. V1.

40

626 PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a right to sell at a reasonable price, and by parity of reason,
it may impose the same conditions upon every other employment or handicraft."
:Regarded merely as a question of power, it is undoubtedly
true, as stated by the court in that case, that the legislature
might as well exact a fee or tribute from brokers, factors, or
commission merchants, for the privilege of transacting their
busiliess, as from auctioneers, inn-holders, retailers, or attorneys, as every citizen has as much right to exercise either
of those employments free of tribute, as the cultivator of the
sol or the mechanic has to pursue their particular callings.
Taken in any point of view the decision in that case is
decisive of the question under consideration, unless it be
assumed that the whole tax was illegal and void as directly
contrary to the State constitution. Such a conclusion can
hardly be admitted, in view of the fact that the rule of construption adopted in that case has prevailed under the highest judicial sanction of the State for more than fifty years.
Assessors and people, as well as the bench and the bar, are
familiar with that construction of the constitution which had
prevailed in practice for more than thirty years when the
rule was announced by the courts. Indeed, usage was one
of the strong arguments employed by the Supreme Court of
the State in support of their conclusion at the time the prevailing rule of construction first received judicial sanction.
Usage of successive legislatures, said the court, from the
time the government began, when its powers as well as the
rights of the citizen were well understood, and when there
was a general disposition to keep all the departments within
their prescribed sphere, down to the present time, furnishes
strong gromds for explanation of parts of the constitution
which are obscure or not perfectly explicit.
Forcible as those suggestions were fifty years ago when
they were made, the unbroken usage in the same direction
since that time adds much to their cogency, and justifies the
concluiou of the present Supreme Court of the State that
the rul ought not to be disturbed.
Arg ]ment for the defendant corporation is, that the act

Dec. 1867.]

PROVIDENT LNSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

627

Opinion of the court.

authorizing the tax in this case lays a direct assessment
upon the property of the corporation, and fixes a special
standard by which the value of that property shall be measured, and that in so doing it includes the portion of the
corporate property invested in the securities exempted from
taxation. But the assessment of the tax is to be made semiannually on the average amount of their deposits for the

six months preceding the respective days named, and not
on the value of the property, as supposed. Reference to
the average amount of the deposits is made, not as descriptive of the subject to be assessed, but as furnishing the basis
of computing the amount of the tax to be paid by the cor-

poration. The subject-matter to be taxed is the corporation,
and the average amount of the deposits within the period
named furnishes the basis of computing the amount.
Deposits, as the word is employed in that section, are the
sums received by the institution from depositors without regard to the nature of the funds. They are not capital stock
in any sense, nor are they even 'investments, as the word is
there used, which simply means the sums received, wholly
irrespective of the disposition made of the same or their
market value.*
When the question as to the construction of that section
was presented to the Supreme Court of the State in this case,
the counsel of the State conceded that the assessment could
not be maintained as an exercise of power conferred by the
State constitution to impose and levy proportional and reasonable assessments,, rates, and taxes, and the court held
that if viewed as a tax assessed under that clause if would
be contrary to the State constitution, because it was not proportional on all persons and estates as the constitution required. They accordingly held, as the same court ruled
fifty years before, that the assessment imposed under the
fourth section of that act must be regarded as an excise or
duty on the privilege or franchise of the corporation, and
not as a tax on the money in their hands belonging to the
* Bank of Savings v. Collector, 3 Wallace, 514.

628

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETT-.

[Sap. C.

Opinion of the court.

depositors. The mandate of the fourth section, say the
court, is clear and explicit. It is the corporation that is to
make the payment, and if it fail to do so it is liable, not only
to an action for the amount of the tax, but what is more
significant, it may be enjoined from the future exercise of
its franchise until all taxes shall be fully paid.*
Apart from the intrinsic merit of those two decisions, the
Attorney-General contends that inasmuch as they are decisions of the highest court of the State in respect to the
construction of the constitution and tax laws of the State,
they ought to be regarded as authorities in this court.
State decisions involving questions re-examinable here under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, and especially
the decision in the case removed here for review, can have
no authoritative influence in this court, because the State
courts in deciding those few questions act in a subordinate
relation to the paramount jurisdiction of this court as conferred under the Federal Constitution.
Federal courts and State courts, it may also be remarked,
exercise concurrent jurisdiction in a large class of cases, but
the decisions of the State courts in such cases, where the
question is one of a general character, and not one arising

under the local law, are not regarded as authorities in this
court, nor are the decisions of this court in such cases obligatory upon the tribunals of the States. But the decisions of
this court in cases involving Federal questions are conclusive
authorities in the State courts, and their decisions upon the
construction of their own constitution and local laws are
equally so in this court unless the case be one which presents some question arising under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act. No such questions were involved in
the cases to which reference is made, and therefore they
must be regarded as conclusive authorities that the tax in
this case is a tax on the privileges and franchises of the corporation and not a tax on property, as contended by the
original defendants. Decisions of the State court rendered
Commonwealth v. Savings Bank, 5 Allen, 431.

Dec. 1867.] PROVIDENT

INSTITUTION V. MASSACHUSETTS.

629

Opinion of the court.

since that time are to the same effect, and there is nothing
in the decisions of this court in any respect inconsistent with
that rule.
Recent decisions of this court, like those of earlier date,
affirm that the public securities of the United States, whether
held by corporations or individuals, are exempt friom taxation by the States for any purpose. Such immunity from
State taxation not only exempts such securities from taxes
levied directly on the holder of the same, but even where
such securities form a part of the capital stock of a bank
the rule is equally well established that a State cannot tax
such capital stock without *deducting such portion thereof
as is made up of such public securities. Bank of Comrmerce
v. New York City (2 Black, 628). Statement of that case
shows that the assessment was made under a then recent
law of the State which required the tax to be imposed upon
a valuation of the stock, like the property of individual citizens, and not as formerly on the amount of the nominal
capital, without regard to the depreciation. Prior system
of taxation in that State was different, and this court admits
that according to that system it was immaterial as to the
character or description of the property which constituted
the capital, as the tax was one annexed to the franchise as
a royalty for the grant, and was imposed wholly irrespective of the character of the property. Nothing more was
decided in the -Bank Tax Case, than that a tax levied under
a law of the State which enacted that all banks and banking
associations should be liable to taxation on a valuation equal
to the amount of their capital paid in or secured to be paid
in, and their surplus earnings, in the manner provided by
law, was a tax on the property of the complaining bank,
and that inasmuch as the capital of the bank consisted of
ublic securities, declared by act of Congress to be exempt
from taxation, the law imposing the tax was unconstitutional
and void.*
Express reservation of the right of the States to tax the
Bank Tax Case, 2 Wallace, 200.

630

PROVIDENT INSTITUTIoN V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

privileges and franchises of the corporation was not made
in that case, but in the case decided only one year later it
was distinctly held that the States do possess the power
to tax the shares of the national banks in the hands of the
stockholders, although the capital of those banks is wholly
invested in the public securities. Precise extent of that
decision was, that the shares of those banks were subject in
the hands of shareholders to State taxation under the linitation provided in the forty-first section of the act of June 3d,
1864, without regard to the fact that a part or the whole of
the capital was invested in the national securities declared by
act of Congress to be exempt from such taxation.*
Principal reason assigned for the conclusion is, that the
liability to taxation is only a burden annexed to the rights
and *privilegesgranted to the corporation ; but the court also
held that the tax on the shares was not a tax on the capital
of the bank.t
Suppose it was otherwise, still the rule of construction
adopted by the highest court of the State, in construing
their own constitution, and one of their own statutes in a
case not involving any question re-examinable in this court
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, must be
regarded as conclusive in this court.1
Considered as a tax on property no part of the tax could
be supported under the constitution of the State, and there
never was a moment when such a tax, if viewed as a property
•tax, could be upheld since the State was organized under a
written constitution. The amount of the tax does not depend on the amount of the property held by the institution,
but it depends upon the capacity of the institution to exercise the privileges conferred by the charter.
Valuation of property has nothing to do with determining
the amount of the tax, but the amount depends on the average amount of the deposits for the six months preceding the
* 'Van Allen v. Assessors, 8 Wallace, 573.

t Queen v. Arnaud, 9 Adolphus & Ellis, New Series, 806.
1 MccOutcheon v,. Marshall, 8 Peters, 240; Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley,
2 Id. 4M2; Leffingwell -v. Warren. 2 Black, 599.

Dec. 1867.] PROVIDENT ILNSTITUTION V. MASSACIIUSETTS. 631
Opinion of the court.

respective days named, and it is quite obvious that there is
no necessary relation between the average \amount of the
deposits and the amount of the property owned by the institution. Granting that it is not a property tax, then it
must be considered as a franchise tax laid upon the corporation for the privileges conferred by the charter, which, by
all the authorities, it is competent for the State to tax irrespective of what disposition the institution has made of the
funds, or in what manner they may have been invested.
Counties, cities, towns, and school districts, as well as the
State, may impose and levy reasonable assessments, rates,
and taxes upon property, but the assessment to the corporation defendants, if paid, exempts them from all other taxation for the current year.*
State taxes on property are voted by the legislature, but
the requirement of law in this case is that the treasurer
"shall send his warrants for the assessing thereof to the
sheriffs of the several counties, who shall immediately transmit the same to the assessors to whom they are directed.
Assessment of all taxes on property, whether state, county,
city, town, or school district, is required to be made by the
assessors of the cities and towns, and the cities and towns in
case of neglect are made liable to the State and the several
counties for the amount of the taxes. True lists are re.
quired to be furnished to the assessors by the inhabitants of
all their polls and estates, both real and personal, not exemnpted from taxation, and the provision is that in case of
neglect the assessors shall ascertain the particulars, as near
as possible, and make an estimate thereof at its just value.t
Warrants with the tax-lists annexed are issued by the assessors, and the taxes are collected by the collectors elected
by the cities and towns in the same manner as other subordinate municipal officers.1
Franchise taxes are levied directly by an act of the legislature, and the corporations are required to pay the amount
into the State treasury. They differ from property taxes,'
*

Sessions Laws, 1862, p. 200.

t General Statutes, 77, 78.

t Id. 164

6Z;2

HAMILTON COMPANY V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

as levied for state and municipal purposes, in the basis prescribed for computing the amount, in the manner of assessment, and in the mode of collection, and they are in lieu of
all other taxation, state or municipal. Comparative valuation in assessing property taxes is the basis of computation
in ascertaining the amount to be contributed by an individual, but the amount of a franchise tax depends upon the
business transacted by the corporation and the extent to
which they have exercised the privileges granted in their
charter. Unlike as the two systems are in every particular,
it seems to be a work of supererogation to point out the
differences, which are radical and substantial.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, GRIER, J., and MILLER, J.,
in this as in the last preceding case dissented, on the ground
that the tax was one on the property and not on the franchises of the Provident Institution.

HAMILTON COMPANY V. MASSACHUSETTS.
1. Questions not 4ecided in the State court, because not raised and presented
by the complaining party, will not be re-examined in this court on a
writ of error under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
2. It is not sufficient that such a question might have arisen and been applicable to the case, unless it appears in the record that it did arise, and
was applied by the State court in disposing of the controversy.
8. A statute of Massachusetts which requires corporations having a capital
stock divided into shares, to pay a tax of a certain percentage (one-sixth
of one per cent.) upon "the excess of the market value" of all such stock
over the value of its real estate and machinery, is, under the settled course
of decision in the State of Massachusetts on its constitution and laws, a
statute which imposes a franchise tax.
4. The tax is lawful.
5. Provident Intitutionv. Massachusetts (last preceding case) affirmed.

APPEAL from the Superior Court of the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts.
This case-which was one agreed ea and stated in the court

