748

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. CHAMBERLAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

complainant shall be at liberty, when further instalments of
interest should become due and unpaid, to apply for an
order for the sale of the said mortgaged premises in accordance with the mandate. On the 18th September, 1866, an
order was entered directing a sale of the premises on account
of default in the payment of $40,000, an instalment of interest that had become due on the first of the same'
month,
and
due
notice,
and
which order was entered on petition
after argument by counsel. The first two appeals were taken
from this order.
A second default was made in payment of another instalment on the first of March, 1867, and after hearing the parties on both sides, an order for a sale was made on the fifth
of the same month. The third appeal is from this order.
We have examined the proceedings to which objections
have been taken, and are of opinion that they are in conformity with the principal decree in the cause, and that the
order should be
AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. CHAMBERLAIN.
Where a bill was filed by a Wisconsin railroad company to set aside a
judgment, and a lease in the nature of a mortgage to secure the same,
and another railroad corporation created by the same State, having become equitable owner of the lease and mortgage, was admitted as defendant, and also filed a cross-bill to have the judgment enforced, the
Circuit Court dismissed the original bill on the merits, and also dismissed the cross-bill for want of jurisdiction, the parties being all citizens
of the same State: Held, that this latter decree was erroneous; the proceeding being merely ancillary to the judgment in the Circuit Court,
which could only be enforced in that court.

TEsnE were two appeals from the Circuit Court for the
District of Wisconsin; one by the Milwaukee and Minnesota
Railroad Company against Chamberlain, the other by the
Milwaukee and St. Paul Iailroad Company against both the
parties to the other case.

Dec. 1867.]

RAILR0AD COMPANIES V. CHAMBERLAIN.

749

Statement of the case.

In the first case the bill of complaint was filed by the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company against Chamberlain, to set aside a lease executed to him by the La Crosse
and Milwaukee Railroad on the 26th September, 1857, of
their road, with the intent to hinder and delay their creditors; and, also, to set aside a judgment which the company
had confessed to Chamberlain for the sum of $429,089.72 on
the 2d October, 1857, which, it was also charged, was confessed with the like intent. The Milwaukee and St. Paul
Company were admitted as defendant on the ground that it
had become the owner of the lease and judgment. Answers
were put in by both the defendants, and proofs taken.
On the 23d May, 1865, the Milwaukee and St. Paul Company filed a cross-bill against the Milwaukee and Minnesota
Company and Chamberlain, setting forth the indebtedness
of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Company to Chamberlain;
that the complainant had become the equitable owner of this
debt for a full consideration ; that the lease and judgment,
the former being a security for the latter, were liens on the
Eastern Division of the road, which was largely encumbered
by prior mortgages, and which, together with the aforesaid
judgment, far exceeded its value, and that the complainant
had no adequate remedy at law. The bill then prayed that
the judgment might be decreed a valid and subsisting lien
on the road, appurtenances, and franchises, and that they
might be decreed to be sold to satisfy it. The defendants
put in an answer, and the cause went to the proofs. This
was the second suit of the two above-mentioned suits. Much
testimony was taken on both sides, which was found in the
record; and the court below, after full consideration, dismissed the bill in the principal suit on the merits as to the
Chamberlain judgment, and deceeed in favor of the force
and effect of that judgment; but dismissed the cross-bill for
the reason that the two companies were incompetent to litigate the matter set forth in that bill on account of the resi.
dence of the parties, both being corporations of the State of
Wisconsin.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

JAMES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Cushing,for the appellant in the first case; Messrs. Cary
and Carlisle, contra; the position of counsel being reversed in the
cross-bill.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the ,court
We think that the court erred in dismissing the cross-bill.
It was filed for the purpose of enforcing the judgment, which
was in the Circuit Court, and could be filed in no other
court, and was but ancillary to and dependent upon the
original suit-an appropriate proceeding for the purpose of
obtaining satisfaction. The lease was in the nature of a
mortgage, and held only as collateral security, and followed
the judgment.*
The decree in the first suit must be affirmed, and that in
the second reversed, and the cause remitted to the court below to enter a decree
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JAMES.
In Wisconsin, a judgment is a lien from the time it is rendered, upon a railroad, and upon the rolling stock, which is a fixture by statute; and
upon a bill in equity a decree for a sale to satisfy the judgment passed
title to the purchaser.
THESE were three appeals from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin. The case was this:
On the 7th October, 1857, CleVeland recovered judgment
for $111,727 against the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company. The legislature of Wisconsin, incorporating the
road, provided that the title to lands which it might take in
building its road, should, on its payment for them, "vest in
the said company in fee," and provided also by general statute that rolling stock should be a fixture on any railroad, in
connection with which it was used. Cleveland assigned his
judgment to James. Subsequently to the entry of this judg* Fre-aan v. Howe et al., 24 Howard, 451.

