Dec. 1867.]

SAvErY v.

YPnER.

157

Statement of the case.

sufficient, and inasmuch as it appears that security in part,
for the amount they might be decreed to pay, had been
given by the present appellants before the bond on appeal
was required, by a deposit of bonds of the United Szates,
and other private bonds, amounting in all to a sum not less
than $-200,000, we will order that the appellants have leave
to withdraw the appeal bond now on file upon filing a bond
in lieu thereof in the sum of $225,000, with good and sufficient sureties, to the satisfaction of the clerk of this court.
FIRST MOTION DENIED; SECOND ONE GRAINTED.

SAVERY V. SYPHER.
1. An attorney-at-]aw having no power zirtuc ofica' to purchase for his client
at judicial sale land sold under a mortgage held by the client, the burden of proving that he had other authority rests on him.
2. On an application to a court in equity to refuse confirmation of a master's
sale and to order a resale-a case where speedy relief may be necessarythe court may properly hear the application, and act on ex parc aflidavits on both sides, and without waiting to have testimony taken with
cross-examinations.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
Keene having conveyed to Savery a piece of land, Savery
gave him a mortgage on the same to secure the purnlasemoney. Keene died before receiving payment of this money;
and the administratrix of his estate, .Mrs. Sypher, filed a bill
to foreclose the mortgage. Answers and replications were
put in, but no proofs were taken, and when the cause was
called for hearing, the parties, by their attorneys, in open
court agreed on the amount that was due, and a regular decree ?f foreclosure in the usual form was entered by the
court. The money not having been paid by the day appointed, the property was advertised and struck off by the
master at the instance of White, the attorney of record, to
Mrs. Sypher, the administratrix, in satisfaction of the decree.
A controversy now arose between Savery and Mrs. Sypher,
APPEAL

158

SAVERY V. SYPHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

the administratrix, as to whether this sale thus made to her
by order of her attorney White, should be confirmed.
It appeared that Savery had been desirous of returning
the land to Keene's estate, and of having the mortgage cancelled. Negotiations were accordingly had between the parties. Whether, as'converting personalty into realty, they
resulted in an agreement obligatory on the administratrix,
was one question raised; the validity of it being denied by
the counsel here of the appellee. In any case, there was conflict in the testimony as to the terms of the agreement. Mrs.
Sypher swore that she consented to receive the property, provided it was returned to her in the same condition as when
it was conveyed to Savery, and that she positively refused to
sign written stipulations concerning the sale and purchase
which were presented to her for her signature before the
sale by her attorney, White, and afterwards by Seeley, his
clerk, because the stipulations did not provide for a payment
of the taxes that had become due on the property, about
,5300, since the sale or conveyance. Savery, who was also
sworn, contradicted this statement in material points, and
he was sustained by White, while Seeley and another witness, Mrs. Price, directly supported Irs. Sypher. Upon
this case-which on each side was made wholly by ex parte affldavits-the court below refused to confirm the master's sale,
and ordered a resale of the property. Savery appealed to
this court to have those proceedings reviewed.
31-r. Ashton, for the appellant:
1. On the facts. The court below was not justified, upon
the affidavits before it, in finding that the appellant had ever
promised to pay the taxes due on the land.
2. On the law. The court below erred in attempting to

determine the issue, raised by the motions, upon tlese ex
parte affidavits. The question of fact, as to the existence of
the agreement set up by the appellee, should have been determined only after a full opportunity had been given to the
appellant to cross-examine her witnesses before an examiner
or master in chancery, and to contradict them by counter

Dec. 1867.']

SAVERY V.

SYpHWER.

Opinion of the court.

evidence. No other form or method of investigation, was
adequate to the real purpose in view, to wit: the ascertainment by the court of the fact alleged by the appellee, in
avoidance of her purchase.*
Mr. P. Phillips, who filed a brief for Messrs. Mason, Polk,
and Hubbell, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.

On the issue of fact the court heard evidence and decided
the case adversely to the appellant, and we think correctly.
The burden of proof was imposed on Savery, who seeks
to confirm the sale, to show the authority of White; for an
attorney, virlie officii, has no authority to purchase property in the name of his client. If the negotiations between
Savery, the appellant, and the administratrix, Mrs. Sypher,
resulted in a valid agreement, binding on the administratrix,
there is direct conflict in the testimony as to the terms of it.
In number of witnesses, the case is in favor of the decree,
and there is nothing in the record to enable this court to
pass either upon the veracity or intelligence of the several
parties. Doubtless, the court below placed great reliance on
the evidence of Mrs. Price and Mr. Seeley, who were unconnected with the transaction, and wholly disinterested.
As this whole controversy turns on the payment of taxesnot involving a large amount-it seems extraordinary that
the appellant did not end it, by paying the taxes, and thus
secure the confirmation of a sale, in which he had such a
great personal interest.
The power of Mrs. Sypher as administratrix, to make
such an agreement as it is alleged she did, was denied at the
bar, but it is unnecessary to discuss the point, as we find,
that the purchase by White for her was unauthorized, and
in violation of the real agreement under which she was willing to take back the mortgaged property.
It is argued, that the Circuit Court erred in determining
the issue raised by the motion upon ex. parte affidavits. Not
- See Daniels's Chancery Pleading and Practice, 1513; Id. 1237.

REICHART

v.

FrLPS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

so; for couits of equity must be able to act in a summary
manner upon motions of this kind, and any other mode of
investigation than the one adopted in this case, would have
failed to give the speedy relief necessary under the circumstances. The practice pursued by the court was the usual
and proper practice, and we see no good reasons to depart
from it.
-

REICHART

v.

DECREE AFFIRMED.

FELPS.

1. A decision in the highekt court of a State against the validity of a pate.*
granted by the United States for land, and whose validity is drawn in
question in such court, is a decision against the validity of an authority
exercised under the United States, and the subject of re-examination
here, although the other side have also set up as their case a similax
authority whose validity is by the same decision affirmed.
2. Patents by the United States for land which it has previously granted,
reserved from sale, or appropriated, are void.
8. A patent or instrument of confirmation by an officer authorized by Congress to make it, followed by a survey of the land described in the instrument, is conclusive evidence that the land described and surveyed
was reserved from sale.
4. Where the United States, receiving a cession of lands claimed in ancient
times by France, and on which were numerous French settlers, directed
that such settlers should be "confirmed" in their "possessions and
rights," and ordered a particular public officer to examine into the
matter, &c.,-confirmation by deed was not necessary. The officer,
being admitted to have authority to make confirmation, could make it
by instrument in writing without seal.
5. Congress has no power to organize a board of revision to annul titles
confirmed many years by the authorized agents of the government.

EIRoI to the Supreme Court of Illinois; the case, which
was one of ejectment, being thus:
In 1784, after the War of the Revolution, the State of
Virginia then claiming the Northwest Territory, a part of
which makes the now State of Illinois-and in which, from
early times, inhabitants of Canada, while Canada was yet a
French province, had settled-yielded her claim and title in
the territory to the United States, on condition "that the

