Dec. 1867.]

35

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.
Syllabus.

States against levying duties on imports or exports would
have been ineffectual if it had not been extended to duties
on the ships which serve as the vehicles of conveyance.
This extension was doubtless intended by the prohibition
of any duty of tonnage. It was not only a pro rata tax which
was prohibited, but any duty on the ship, whether a fixed
sum upon its whole tonnage, or a sum to be ascertained by
comparing the amount of tonnage with the rate of duty.
In this view of the case, the levy of the tax in question is
expressly prohibited.
On the whole we are clearly of opinion that the act of the
legislature of Louisiana is repugnant to the Constitution,
and that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
must therefore be
REVERSED.

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.
1. A special tax on railroad and stage companies for every passenger carried
out of the State by them is a tax on the passenger for the privilege of
passing through the State by the ordinary modes of travel, and is not
a simple tax on the business of the companies.
2. Such a tax imposed by a State is not in conflict with that provision of
the Federal Constitution which forbids a State to lay a duty on exports.
3. The power granted to Congress to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the States, includes subjects of legislation which are
necessarily of a national character, and, therefore, exclusively within
the control of Congress.
4. But it also includes matters of a character merely local in their operation,
as the regulation of port pilots, the authorization of bridges over navigable streams and porhaps others, and upon this class of subjects the
State may legislate in the absence of any such legislation by Congress.
5. If the tax on passengers when carried out of the State be called a regulation of commerce, it belongs to the latter class ; and there being no
legislation of Congress on the same subject the statute will not be void
as a regulation of commerce.
I. The United States has a, right to require the service of its citizens at the
seat of Federal government, in all executive, legislative, and judiciak
departments; and at all the points in the several States where the functions of government are to be performed.

CRANDALL V.

STATE 0.

NEVADA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
7. By virtue of its power to make war and to suppress insurrection, the
government has a right to transport troops through all parts of the
Union by the usual and most expeditious modes of transportation.
8. The citizens of the United States have the correlative right to. approach
the great departments of the government, the ports of entry through
which commerce is conducted, and the various Federal offices in the
States.
9. The taxing power being in its nature unlimited over the subjects within
its control, would enable the State governments to destroy the abovementioned rights of the Federal government and of its citizens if the
right of transit through the States by railroad and other ordinary modes
of travel were one of the legitimate objects of State taxation.
10. The existence of such a power in the States is, therefore, inconsistent
with objects for which the Federal government was established and
with rights conferred by the Constitution on that government and on
the people. An exercise of such a power is accordingly void.

to the Supreme Court of Nevada.
In 1865, the legislature of Nevada enacted that "there
shall be levied and collected a capitation tax of one dollar
upon every person leaving the State by any railroad, stage
coach, or other vehicle engaged or employed in the business
of transporting passengers for hire," and that the proprietors,
owners, and corporations so engaged should pay the said tax
of one dollar for each and every person so conveyed or transported from the State. For the purpose of collecting the
tax, another section required from persons engaged in such
business, or their agents, a report every month, under oath,
of the number of passengers so transported, and the payment
of the tax to the sheriff or other proper officer.
With the statute in existence, Crandall, who was the agent
of a stage company engaged in carrying passengers through
the State of Nevada, was arrested for refusing to report the
number of passengers that had been carried by the coaches
of his company, and for refusing to pay the tax of one dollar
imposed on each passenger by the law of that State. He
pleaded that the law of the State under which he was proseERROR

cuted was void, because it was in conflict with the Constitu-

tion of the United States; and his plea being overruled, the
case came into the Supreme Court of the State. That courtconsidering that the tax laid was not an impost on "exports,"

Dec. 1867.]

C1RANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.

87

Argument in support of the tax.

nor an interference with the power of Congress "to regulate
commerce among the several States "-decided against the
right thus set up under the Federal Constitution.
Its judgment was now here for review.
No counsel appeared for the plaintiff in error, Crandall,nor
was any brieffiled in his behalf.
Mr. P. Phillips, who fled a brief for 21r. T. J. D. Fuller,
for the State of .Nevada :
The law in question is not in conflict with that clause of
the Constitution of the United States, which provides that
"no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports," &c. Personscarried
out of a State are not "exports" within the meaning of this
clause. An export is a "thing exported," not a person.*
Nor in conflict with the provision that "Congress shall
have power to regulate commerce among the several
States," &c. The grant of power here given to Congress has
never yet been exercised by it. It has enacted no statute
upon the subject of inter-state travel. And while thus dormant and not exercised by Congress, it does not deprive the
several States of the power to regulate commerce among
themselves, a power which confessedly belonged to them
before the adoption of the Constitution of the United States.
In all decided cases where analogous laws of the several
States have been held unconstitutional, it has been because
of their alleged conflict with laws actually enacted by Congress
under the power given that body by the Constitution "to
regulate commerce with fbreign nations and with Indian
tribes." In such case of course the State law must give
way.t
* Brown v. State of Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 438; City of New York v.
Miln, 11 Peters, 136; License Ca.es, 6 Howard, 594.
- Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 200; Houston v. Moore, 5 Id. 21; Willson v. Blackbird Creek Marsh Company, 2 Peters, 252; Brown v. State ot
Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 448; License Cases, 5 Howard, 504, 574, 578, 579
680-6; lb. 607, 618, 619, 621 -5.

CRANDALL V.

STATE OF N EVADA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the tax.

In addition the law in question is not intended as a regulation of commerce among the States, but as a tax for the
support of the State government. A law passed thus diverso
intuitu does not become a regulation of commerce merely
because in its operation it may bear indirectly upon com
merce.*
The power of taxation, like the police power, is indispensable to the existence of a State government, and it has
never been pretended that it is impaired by any clause of the
Federal Constitution, except so far and in such respects as
that instrument'expressly prohibits it. To take away that
power by inference would be to open the way for entire destruction of State government.t
Finally. The tax in question is not a poll-tax, nor can it
be made so by being described by the law as a "capitation
tax." It is not levied on, nor paid by the passenger himself;
but it is paid by the common carrier, at the rate of so much
for each passenger carried by him. It is strictly a -tax on
his business, graduated by the amount of such business, as
are license taxes, which often are made to vary pro ratawith
the amount of business done by the person taking the license.
Suppose that the State, after examining the affhirs of this
particular stage company, had found that it carried a thousand passengers per year, and without any reference to what
ihey had observed, laid a tax of a thousand dollars a year on
all stage companies engaged in business like that of Crandall. Would that tax be unconstitutional? The State
makes roads. It keeps them in repair. It must in some
way be paid in order to be able to do all this. And what
difference does it make whdtber it be paid by a tax of one
dollar on each passenger, or by the same sum collected at a
toll-gate, or by a gross sum for a license?
Nor does the tax become a poll-tax by falling ultimately
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 201-4; City of New York v. Miln, 11
Peters, 102.
t Cases generally cited ante; McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Whea.
ton, 316, 427-36.

Dec. 1867.]

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.
Opinion of the court.

upon the passengers carried, any more than does the tax
upon liquors become a poll-tax because ultimately paid by
him who drinks the liquor. It remains a tax upon the busi
ness, whoever pays it at last.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question for the first time presented to the court by
this record is one of importance. The proposition to be
considered is the right of a State to levy a tax upon persons

residing in the State who may wish to get out of it, and upon
persons not residing in it who may have occasion to pass
through it.
It is to be regretted that such a question should be sub..
mitted to our consideration, with neither brief nor argument
on the part of plaintiff in error. But our regret is diminished by the reflection, that the principles which must govern
its determination have been the subject of much consideration in cases heretofore decided by this court.
It is claimed by counsel for the State that the tax thus
levied is not a tax upon the passenger, but upon the business of the carrier who transports him.
If the act were much more skilfully drawn to sustain this
hypothesis than it is, we should be very reluctant to admit
that any form of words, which had the effect to compel every
person travelling through the country by the common and
usual modes of public conveyance to pay a specific sum to
the State, was not a tax upon the right thus exercised. The
statute before us is not, however, embarrassed by any nice
difficulties of this character. The language which we have
just quoted is, that there shall be levied and collected a capitation tax upon every person leaving the State by any railroad or stage coach; and the remaining provisions of the
act, which refer to this tax, only provide a mode of collecting it. The officers and agents of the railroad companies,
and the proprietors of the stage coaches, are made responsible for this, and so become the collectors of the tax.
We shall have occasion to refer hereafter somewhat in
detail, to the opinions of the judges of this court in The Pas.

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

senger Cases,* in which there were wide differences on several points involved in the case before us. In the case from
New York then under consideration, the statute provided
that the health commissioner should be entitled to demand
and receive from the master of every vessel that should arrive in the port of New York, from a foreign port, one dollar and fifty cents for every cabin passenger, and one dollar
for each steerage passenger, and from each coasting vessel,
twenty-five cents for every person on board. That statute
does not use language so strong as the Nevada statute, inticative of a personal tax ol the passenger, but merely taxes
the master of the vessel according to the number of his passengers; but the court held it to be a tax upon the passenger,
and that the master was the agent of the State for its collection. Chief Justice Taney, while he differed from the majority of the court, and held the law to be valid, said of the tax levied by the analogous statute of Massachusetts, that
"its payment is the condition upon which the State permits
the alien passenger to come on shore and mingle with its
citizens, and to reside among them. It is demanded of the
captain, and not from every separate passenger, for convenience of collection. But the burden evidently falls upon the
passenger, and he, in fact, pays it, either in the enhanced
price of his passage or directly to the captain before lie is
allowed to embark for the voyage. The nature of the transaction, and the ordinary course of business, show that this
must be so."
Having determined that the statute of Nevada imposes a
tax upon the passenger for the privilege of leaving the State,
or passing through it by the ordinary mode of passenger
travel, we proceed to inquire if it is for that reason in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
In the argument of the counsel for the defendant in error,
and in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Nevada, which
is fbund in the record, it is assumed that this question must
be decided by an exclusive reference to two provisions of
7 Howard, 283.

Dec. 1867.]

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.
Opinion of the court.

the Constitution, namely: that which forbids any State;without the consent of Congress, to lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports, and that which confers on Congress the
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States.
The question as thus narrowed is not free from difficulties. Can a citizen of the United States travelling from one
part of the Union to another be called an export? It was
insisted in The Passenger Cases to which we have already
referred, that foreigners coming to this country were imports within the meaning of the Constitution, and the provision of that instrument that the migration or importation
of such persons as any of the States then existing should
think proper to admit, should not be prohibited prior to the
year 1808, but that a tax might be imposed on such importation, was relied on as showing that the word import, applied to persons as well as to merchandise. It was answered
that this latter clause had exclusive reference to slaves, who
were property as well as persons, and therefore proved nothing. While some of the judges who concurred in holding
those laws to be unconstitutional, gave as one of their reasons that they were taxes on imports, it is evident that this
view did not receive the assent of a majority of the court.
The application of this provision of the Constitution to the
proposition which we have stated in regard to the citizen,
is still less satisfactory than it would be to the case of foreigners migrating to the United States.
But it is unnecessary to consider this point further in the
view which we have taken of the case.
As regards the commerce clause of the Constitution, two
propositions are advanced on behalf of the defendant in error.
1. That the tax imposed by the State on passengers is not a
regulation of commerce. 2. That if it can be so considered,
it is one of those powers which the States can exercise, until
Congress has so legislated, as to indicate its intention to exclude State legislation on the same subject.
The proposition that the power to regulate commerce, as
granted to Congress by the Constitution, necessarily excludes

ORANDALL V.

STATE OF NEVADA.

ES'up. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the exercise by the States of any of the power thus granted,
is one which has been much considered in this court, and
the earlier discussions left the question in much doubt. As
late as the January Term, 1849, the opinions of the judges
in The Passenger Cases show that the question was considered
to be one of much importance in those cases, and was even
then unsettled, though previous decisions of the court were
relied on by the judges themselves as deciding it indifferent
ways. It was certainly, so far as those cases affected it, left
an open question.
In the case of Cooley v. Board of Wardens,* four years later,
the same question came directly before the court in reference to the local laws of the port of Philadelphia concerning
pilots. It was claimed tlat they constituted a regulation of
commerce, and were therefore void. The court held that
they did come within the meaning of the term "to regulate
commerce," but that until Congress made regulations concerning pilots the States were competent to do so.
Perhaps no more satisfactory solution has ever been given
of this vexed question than the one furnished by the court
in that case. After showing that there are some powers
granted to Congress which are exclusive of similar powers
in the States because they are declared to be so, and that
other powers are necessarily so from their very nature, the
court proceeds to say, that the authority to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the States, includes within its
compass powers which can only be exercised by Congress,
as well as powers which, from their nature, can best be exercised by the State legislatures; to which latter class
the regulation of pilots belongs. "Whatever subjects of
this power are in their nature national, or admit of one uniform system or plan of regulation, may justly be said to be
of such a nature as to require exclusive legislation by Congress." In the case of Gilman v. Philadelplda,tthis doctrine
is reaffirmed, and under it a bridge across a stream navigable from the ocean, authorized by State law, was held to be
* 12 Howard, 299.

t3

"Wallace, 713.

Dec. 1867.]

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.

43

Opinion of the court.

well authorized in the absence of any legislation by Congress
affecting the matter.
It may be that under the power to regulate commerce
among the States, Congress has authority to pass laws, the
operation of which would be inconsistent with the tax imposed by the State of Nevada, but we know of no such
statute now in existence. Inasmuch, therefore, as the tax
does not itself institute any regulation of commerce of a
national character, or which has a uniform operation over
the whole country, it is not easy to maintain, in view of the
principles on which those cases were decided, that it violates
the clause of the Federal Constitution which we have had
under review.
But we do not concede that the question before us is to be
determined by the two clauses of the Constituti,)n which we
have been examining.
The people of these United States constitute )ne nation.
They have a government in which all of them are deeply
interested. This government has necessarily a capital established by law, where its principal operations are cenducted.
Here sits its legislature, composed of senators and repre
sentatives, from the States and from the people of the States.
Here resides the President, directing through thousands of
agents, the execution of the laws over all this vast country.
Here is the seat of the supreme judicial power of the nation,
to which all its citizens have a right to resort to claim justice
at its bands. Here are the great executive departments,
administering the offices of the mails, of the public lands, of
the collection and distribution of the public revenues, and
of our foreign relations. These are all established and conducted under the admitted powers of the Federal government. That government has a right to call to this point any
or all of its citizens to aid in its service, as members of the
Congress, of the courts, of the executive departments, and
to fill all its other offices; and this right cannot be made to
depend upon the pleasure of a State over whose territory
they must pass to reach the point where these services must
be rendered. The government, also, has its offices of secon-

44

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.

[Sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

dary importance in all other parts of the country. On the
sea-coasts and on the rivers it has its ports of entry. In the
interior it has its laud offices, its revenue offices, and its subtreasuries. In all these it demands the services of its citizens, and is entitled to bring them to those points from all
quarters of the nation, and no power can exist in a State to
obstruct this right that would not enable it to defeat the
purposes for which the government was established.
The Federal power has a right to declare and prosecute
wars, and, as a necessary incident, to raise and transport
troops through and over the territory of any State of the
Union.
If this right is dependent in any sense, however limited,
upon the pleasure of a State, the government itself may be
overthrown by an obstruction to its exercise. Much the
largest part of the transportation of troops during the late
rebellion was by railroads, and largely through States whose
people were hostile to the Union. If the tax levied by
Nevada on railroad passengers had been the law of Tennessee, enlarged to meet the wishes of her people, the treasury
of the United States could ,ot have paid the tax necessary
to enable its armies to pass through her territory.
But if the government has these rights on her own account, the citizen also has correlative rights. He has the
right to come to the seat of government to assert any claim
he may have upon that government, or to transact any business he may have with it. To seek its protection, to share
its offices, to engage in administering its functions. le has
a right to free access to its sea-ports, through which all the
operations of foreign trade and commerce are conducted, to
the sub-treasuries, the land offices, the revenue offices, and
the courts of justice in the several States, and this right is
in its nature independent of the will of any State over whose
soil he must pass in the exercise of it.
The views here advanced are neither novel nor unsupported by authority. The question of the taxing power of
the States, as its exercise has affected the functions of the
Foderal government, has been repeatedly considered by this

Dec. 1867.]

CRANDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA:

45

Opinion of the court.

court, and the right of the States in this mode to impede or
embarrass the constitutional operations of that government,
or the rights which its citizens hold under it, has been uniformly denied.
The leading case of this class is that of Mc Culloch v. Maryland.* The case is one every way important, and is familiar
to the statesman and the constitutional lawyer. The Congress, for the purpose of aiding the fiscal operations of the
government, had chartered the Bank of the United States,
with authority to establish branches in the different States,
and to issue notes for circulation. The legislature of Maryland had levied a tax upon these circulating notes, which the
bank refused to pay, on tlhe ground that the statute was void
by reason of its antagonism to the Federal Constitution.
No particular provision of the Constitution was pointed to
as prohibiting the taxation by the State. Indeed, the authority of Congress to create the bank, which was strenuously denied, and the discussion of which constituted an
important element in the opinion of the court, was not based
by that opinion on any express grant of power, but was
claimed to be necessary and proper to enable the government to carry out its authority to raise a revenue, and to
transfer and disburse the same. It was argued also that the
tax on the circulation operated very.remotely, if at all, on
the only functions of the bank in which the government was
interested. But the court, by a unanimous judgment, held
the law of Maryland to be unconstitutional.
It is not possible to condense the conclusive argument of
Chief Justice Marshall in that case, and it is too familiar to
justify its reproduction here; but an extract or two, in which
the results of his reasoning are stated, will serve to show its
applicability to the case before us. "That the power of
taxing the bank by the States," he says, "may be exercised
so as to destroy it, is too obvious to be denied. But taxation
is said to be ail absolute power which acknowledges no other
jimits than those prescribed by the Constitution, and, likq
* 4 Wheaton, 316.

CRANDALL V. STATE OF N TEVADA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sovereign power of any description, is trusted to the discretion of those who use it. But the very terms of this argument admit that the sovereignty of the State in the article
of taxation is subordinate to, and may be controlled by, the
Constitution of the United States." Again he says, "We
find then, on just theory, a total failure of the original right
to tax the means employed by the government of the Union
for the execution of its powers. The right never existed,
and the question of its surrender cannot arise."
.
"That the power to tax involves the power to destroy; that
the power to destroy may defeat and render useless the
power to create; that there is a plain repugnance in conferring on one government a power to control the constitutional
measures of another, which other, with respect to those very
means, is declared to be supreme over that which exerts the
control, are propositions not to be denied. If the States may
tax one instrument employed by the government in the
execution of its powers, they may tax any and every other
instrument. They may tax the mail; they may tax the
mint; they may tax patent rights; they may tax the papers
of the custom-house; they may tax judicial process; they
may tax all the means employed by the government to an
excess which would defeat all the ends of government. This
was not intended by the American people. They did not
design to make their government dependent on the States."
It will be observed that it was not the extent of the tax in
that case which was complained of, but the right to levy any
tax of that character. So in the case before us it may be
said that a tax of one dollar for passing through the State
of Nevada, by stage coach or by railroad, cannot sensibly
affect any function of the government, or deprive a citizen
of any valuable right. But if the State can tax a railroad
passenger one dollar, it can tax him one thousand dollars.
If one State can do this, so can every other State. And
thus one or more States covering the only practicable routes
of travel from the east to the west, or from the north to the
south, may totally prevent or seriously burden all transportation of passengers from one part of the country to the other.

Dec. 1867.]

CRANDALL

V.

STATE OF KEVADA.

47

Opinion of the court.

A case of another character in which the taxing power as
exercised by a State was held void because repugnant to the
Federal Constitution, is that of Brown v. The State of Maryland.*
The State of Maryland required all importers of foreign
merchandise, who sold the same by wholesale, by bale or by
package, to take out a license, and this act was claimed to
be unconstitutional. The court held it to be so on three different grounds: first, that it was a duty on imports; second,
that it was a regulation of commerce; and third, that the
importer who had paid the duties imposed by the United
States, had acquired a right to sell his goods in the same
original packages in which they were imported. To say
nothing of the first and second grounds, we have in the
third a tax of a State declared to be void, because it interfered with the exercise of a right derived by the importer
from the laws of the United States. If the right of passing
through a State by a citizen of the United States is one
guaranteed to him by the Constitution, it must be as sacred
from State taxation as the right derived by the importer
from the payment of duties to sell the goods on which the
duties were paid.
In the case of Weston v. The City of Charlestont we have a
case of State taxation of still another class, held to be void as
an interference with the rights of the Federal government.
The tax in that instance was imposed on bonds or stocks
of the United States, in common with all other securities of
the same character. It was held by the court that the free
and successful operation of the government required it at
times to borrow money; that to borrow money it was necessary to issue this class of national securities, and that if the
States could tax these securities they might so tax them, as
to seriously impair or totally destroy the power of the government to borrow. This case, itself based on the doctrines
advanced by the court in l1c Calloeh v. The State of Maryland,
has been followed in all the recent cases involving State
* 12 Wheaton, 419.

f 2 Peters, 449.

CRANDALL V.

STATE OF NEVADA.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

taxation of government bonds, from that of The People of
New York v. Tax Commissioners,* to the decisions of the court
at this term.
In all these cases the opponents of the taxes levied by the
States were able to place their opposition on no express provision of the Constitution, except in that of Brown v. l1aryland. But in all the other cases, and in that case also, the
court distinctly placed the invalidity of the State taxes on the
ground that they interfered with an authority of the Federal
government, which was itself only to be sustained as necessary and proper to the exercise of some other power expressly
granted.
In The Passenger Cases, to which reference has already been
made, Justice Grier, with whom Justice Catron concurred,
makes this one of the four propositions on which they held
the tax void in those cases. Judge Wayne expresses his
assent to Judge Grier's views; and perhaps this ground received the concurrence of more of the members of the court
who constituted the majority than any other. But the principles here laid down may be found more clearly stated in
the dissenting opinion of the Chief Justice in those cases,
and with more direct pertinency to the case now before us
than anywhere else. After expressing his views fully in
favor of the validity of the tax, which he said had exclusive
reference to foreigners, so far as those cases were concerned,
he proceeds to say, for the purpose of preventing misapprehension, that so far as the tax affected American citizens it
could not in his opinion be maintained, lie then adds:
"Living as we do under a common government, charged
with the great concerns of the whole Union, every citizen
of the United States from the most remote States or territories, is entitled to free access, not only to the principal departments established at Washington, but also to its judicial
tribunals and public offices in every State in the Union ....
For all the great purposes for which the Federal government
was formed we are one people, with one common country.
* 2 Black. 620.

Dec. 1867.]

CRAINDALL V. STATE OF NEVADA.

Opinion of the court.

49

The Chief Justice and Clifford, J., dissenting.

*We are all citizens of the United States, and as members of
the same community must have the right to pass and repass
through every part of it without interruption, as freely as in
our own States. And a tax imposed by a State, for entering
its territories or harbors, is inconsistent with the rights which
belong to citizens of other States as members of the Union,
and with the objects which that Union was intended to attain.
Such a power in the States could produce nothing but discord and mutual irritation, and they very clearly do not
possess it."
Although these remarks are found in a dissenting opinion,
they do not relate to the matter on which the dissent was
founded. They accord with the inferences which we have
already drawn from the Constitution itself, and from the
decisions of this court in exposition of that instrument.
Those principles, as we have already stated them in this
opinion, must govern the present case.
TMr. Justice CLIFFORD. I agree that the State law in
question is unconstitutional and void, but I am not able to
concur in the principal reasons assigned in the opinion of
the court in support of that conclusion. On the contrary, I
hold that the act of the State legislature is inconsistent with
the power conferred upon Congress to regulate commerce
among the several States, and I think the judgment of the
court should have been placed exclusively upon that ground.
Strong doubts are entertained by me whether Congress
possesses the power to levy any such tax, but whether so
or not, I am clear that the State legislature cannot impose
any such burden upon commerce among the several States.
Such commerce is secured against such legislation in the
States by the Constitution, irrespective of any Congressional
action.
The CHIEF JUSTICE also dissents, and concurs in the
views I have expressed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded to the Su-

preme Court of the State of Nevada, with directions to discharge the plaintiff in error from custody.
VOL. Vi.

4

