Dec. 1867.]

MUSSINA v. CAVAZOS.

855

Syllabus.

and reinvesting the funds belonging to it, paying over the
income to the children during their lives, converting the
real estate into personal, and, among others, the selection
and appointment of the committee of gentlemen who were
to designate the donees of the charity. This was one of the
incidental trusts or duties devolved upon them by the testatrix, as trustees of the estate, upon whom she had conferred
such large powers over it, and which, on the death of Guild,
survived with the other trusts to the co-trustee. No wellgrounded distinction can be made between these trusts. If
the power survives as to one of them it survives as to all, as
it is apparent on the face of the will that the trustees were
to act in the same capacity in the execution of all of them.
As it respects this devise to charitable, institutions there
can be no doubt upon the law of. Massachusetts, as habitually administered in her courts, but that the objects of the
bounty are made sufficiently certain by the mode pointed
out in the will; and as the question is to be determined by
the local law of the State there is an end of the objection.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MUSSINA v. CAVAZOS.
1. The writ of error by which a case is transferred from a Circuit Court to
this court is the writ of the Supreme Court, although it may be issued
by the clerk of the Circuit Court; and the original writ should always
be sent to this court with the transcript.
2. The writ is served by depositing it with the clerk of the Circuit Court,
and if he makes return by sending here a transcript in due time, this
court has jurisdiction to decide the case, although the original writ may
be lost or destroyed before it reaches the Supreme Court.
3. The cases of Castro v. United States (3 Wallace, 46), and Villabolos v.

Same (6 Howard, 81), commented on and explained.
4. It is not a fatal defect in a writ of error that it describes the parties as
plaintiffs and defendants in error, as they appear in this court, instead
of describing them as plaintiffs and defendants, as they stood in the
court below, if the names of all the parties are given correctly.

M€USSINA

V. CAVAZOS.

[Sup. C1.

Statement of the case.
5. Where a bill of exceptions is neither signed or sealed by the judge, so
that there is nothing to show that it was submitted to him, or in any
way received his sanction, the judgment below will be affirmed. (See,
page 863.)
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the District Court for
the Eastern District of Texas; the case being thus:
The twenty-second'section of the Judiciary Act provides
that-

'Judgments and decrees of the District Courts may be reexamined, and affirmed or reversed1 in a Circuit Court, upon a
writ of error, whereto shall be annexed and returned therewith, at
the day and place therein mentioned, an authenticated transcript
of the record, an assignment of errors, and a prayer foi' revursal;
with a citation, &c. And upon like process may judgment in
the Circuit Courts be re-examined in the Supreme Court."
In this case there wa only a copy of the writ annexed to
the transcript; but the plaintiff in error had filed an affidavit
by which it appeared that during the late civil war, the records of the court had been almost enti rely burnt up, and he
swore that, as he verily believed, there were none of the
original papers of the cause now in existence. Assuming
the copy of the writ of error thus returned with the transcript
to have been a true copy, then the clerk had made his writ
to run thus:
"Because in the record and proceedings, as also in the rendition of judgment of a plea which is in said District Court before
you, in which Shnon .Mussina is plaintiff in error and X aria
Josefa Cavazos and .stefana Goascoehea de Cortinaare defendants
in error,manifest error hath happened to the great damage of
the said-Simon Mussina," &c.
The writ, it will be observed, did not say who was plaintiff below and who there defendants; though the description
of the parties, as they appeared in this court, was correct.
The petition for the writ of error, as contained in the transcript of the record, describes the parties thus:
"",na certain cause wherein M2aria Josefa Cavazos and Este-

Dec. 1867.]

MUSSIxA V.

CAVAZOS.

Opinion of the court.

fana Goascochea de Cortina were plaintiffs and Simon -ussina
defendant, a final judgment was rendered," &c.
The bond given by plaintiff in error described the parties
in the same manner.
Zfessrs. Robinson and Hale rested their motion to dismiss
on the ground, 1st, that the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act above quoted made it indispensable to the jurisdiction of this court that the writ of error itself annexed to
the transcript, should be "returned therewith;" that here the
writ of error was not returned, relying in support of their
view on this point upon Castro v. United States,* and the
previous case of Villabolos v. Same;t and 2d, that admitting
that a copy might be substituted for the writ, and that the
copy here was a true one, the parties to the suit had been
fatally misdescribed in the original.
Messrs. Sherwood and Eidmunds, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the original writ should always be
returned to this court with the transcript of the record. The
writ of error is the writ of this court, and not of the Circuit
Court, whose clerk may actually issue it. The early practice was, that it could only issue from the office of the clerk
of the Supreme Court, and in the case of West v. Barnest
at the August term, 1791, it was so decided. This decision
led to the enactment of the ninth section of the act of 1792,§
by which it was provided that the clerk of the Supreme
Court, assisted by any two justices of said court, should prescribe the form of a writ of error, copies of which should be
forwarded to the clerks of the Circuit Courts; and that such
writs might be issued by these clerks, under the seals of
their respective courts. The form of the writ provided under this act has been in use ever since. It runs in the name
of the President, and bears the teste of the chief justice of
* 3 Wallace, 46.

f Dallas, 401.

t 6 Howard, 81.
J 1 Stat. at Large, 278.

iMUSSINA V.

CAVAZOS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

this court. It is in form and in fact, the process of this
court, directed to the judges of the Circuit Court, commanding them to return with said writ, into this court, a transcript
of the record of the case mentioned in the writ.
When deposited with the clerk of the court, to whose
judges it is directed, it is served; and the transcript which
the clerk sends here, is the return to the writ, and should
be accompanied by it.
In the case before us, the plaintiff in error, by way of substitute for a writ of certiorari, has filed an affidavit, from
which it appears, that, without his fault, the writ has been
destroyed by burning, during the late civil war. Taking
the copy of the writ found in the record to be a true copy, it
may be considered as established, that a writ of error was
issued and served, and that a transcript of the record, with
a copy of the writ, was returned and filed in this court, before the first day of the next term after it was issued, and
that the original writ is destroyed.
We have repeatedly held that the writ of error in cases at
law is essential to the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction
of this court. And it is undouhtedly true that this court
has gone very far in requiring strict compliance with the
acts of Congress under which cases are transferred from
inferior tribunals to this court.
In the case* of Casro v. United States, we held, on consideration of the previous cases, and on principle, that unless
the transcript from the court below was returned before the
end of the term next succeeding the allowance of the appeal,
this court had no jurisdiction. Although the question there
arose on an appeal, the principle decided is equally applicable to a writ of error; for the act of 1803, which first authorized appeals, subjects them to the rule and regulations
which govern writs of error. The ground of that decision,
and also of the case of Villabolos v. United States, which
preceded it, is the general prindiple, that all writs, which
have not been served, and under which nothing has been
done, expire on the day to which they are made returnable.
They no longer confer any authority; an attempt to act

Q

Dec. 1867.]

MUSSINA

V. CAVAZOS.

359

Opinion of the court.

under them is a nullity, and new writs are necessary, if the
party wishes to proceed. Hence we have the alias writ, and
others in numerical succession indefinitely.
It is now insisted, upon the authority of these cases, and
of the language of the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act, that the absence of the oifiginal writ in the case
deprives this court of the power to aecide it. It is said that,
by force of the words "returned therewith," contained in
this twenty-second section, it is made essential to our jurisdiction that the original writ and the transcript must both
be returned.
If this be a sound construction, then it is equally necessary that there shall be returned, at the same time, an as-,
signment of errors, a prayer for the reversal of the judgment, and a citation to the adverse party. But an examination of all the records of cases decided in this court will
show that, in four cases out of five, there has been neither
an assignment of errors, nor any prayer for reversal. We
have also held, frequently, that if the appeal is taken in the
open court, during the term at which it was rendered, in the
presence of the appellee, no citation is necessary, and that a
general appearance in this court for defendant in error, or
in appeal, waives the necessity of a citation.
The act referred to also says, that all these things must
be returned together at the "time and place mentioned in
the writ," that is to say, on the first day of the term next
after the issuing of the writ. Yet we have repeatedly held,
that if returned on any day during that term, we will hear
and decide the cause. It cannot, therefore, be maintained,,
that a rigid and literal fulfilment of everything prescribed
in that section, is an absolute and indispensable requisite to
the appellate jurisdiction of this court.
Nor does the case come within the principle which we
have already stated as governing the cases of Villabolos v.
United States, and Castro v. United Statei. In these cases the
appeals were dismissed, because no rettirns of the tran.
scripts to this court were made, until by analogy to the
writ of error, the time for making such returns had passed:

MtUSSINA 7.

CAVAZOS[

[Sup. CIL

Opinion of the court.

and the writs, if writs had been issued, would have become
funclus officio. In the case before us, on the contrary, it
fully appears that during the life of the writ, a good and
sufficient return to it was made, by sending to this cotirt an
authenticated transcript of the record. Shall we now hold,
because with this return there did not come the writ itself,
that what has been done under it is void, and we are without jurisdiction? I This would be contrary to the uniform
practice of other courts in regard to their writs. For it is
'believed to be well settled, that rights acquired under a
valid writ or process, while it was in force, cannot be defeated by the loss or destruction of the writ; if its existence,
and the acts done under it, can be substantiated by other
testimony. It is as reasonable to hold that a judge of this
court would lose his right to sit in this place, if his commission was burned up, as to hold that the court loses the right
to hear a case, because the writ was burned before it reached
the court, but after it had effected its purpose, by bringing
here the transcript.
In the case of Brooks v. X.Lorris,* the court, in speaking of
bringing a writ of error within the time alloived by the statute of limitation, says: "The writ of error is not brought,
in the legal meaning of the term, until it is filed in the court
which rendered the judgment. It is the filing of the writ
that removes the record from the inferior to the appellate
court, and the period prescribed by the act of Congress must
be calculated accordingly." -In Ableman v. Boolht the writ
of error, which issued from this court, was filed with the
clerk below. No return being made to it, a rule from this
court was served on him by the marshal, to which he paid
no attention. This court then, on motion of the AttorneyGeneral, permitted him to file a copy of the record, duly
authenticated, which had been secured for his private use;
"to have the same effect and legal operation as if returned
by the clerk with the"writ of error;" and on this record the
case was heard and decided, although thu original writ of
error was never returned.
- 2 Id.ace
*

*11

11Howad,04.

Howard, 204.

t 21 Id. 506.

Dec. 1367.]

AIUSSINA

V.

CAVAZOS.

Opinion of the court.

We are, therefore, of opinion, both on principle and authority, that the case should not be dismissed for the nonproduction of the writ of error. The cases dismissed under
rule nine of this court, are governed by the rule, and raise
no question of jurisdiction.
But it is said, that conceding the copy of the writ of error
in the record to be a true copy, and to be rightfully substituted for the original, it is fatally defective, because it does not
correctly describe the parties to the suit. The parties are
correctly described in the writ as they must appear and be
styled in this court, but we are not told by the writ who was
plaintiff and who was defendant below. The full names of
all the parties to the judgment below are given, and their
relations to the suit as it stands in this court are given. We
are also told, that the error (if any) committed by the District Court, was to the manifest injury of Simon Mussina,
plaintiff in error. Is the writ then void because it does not
say which of these parties was plaintiff in that court and
which defendant?
We think that the description, although not in the usual
or even the most appropriate form, is sufficient. If there is
any doubt about the relation of the parties to the suit below,
it can be solved by the record. Having that before us, we
see that Mussina was defendant below, aud is properly described as plaintiff in error in the new proceedings instituted
by the writ, and that the others were plaintiffs below, and
are also properly described as to their relations to the new
proceeding which that writ commences.
But many cases have been dismissed by this court, because
the writ of error described either plaintiff or defendant as
"A. B., and others," or "A. B. & Co.," or other partnership
style, or as "Heirs of C. D.," and such other descriptions as
did not give the names of all the persons who were supposed
to be brought before the court by the writ. Of late years
these cases have simply been dismissed upon the authority
of previously adjudged cases, without giving other reasons
for so doing.

MUSSINA

V.

CAVAZOS.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

It is claimed that the case before as falls within this class,
in the matter we are now considering. To determine if this
be so, we must go back to the earlier of these cases to discover the principle on which they were decided.
Early in the history of the court it was ruled that unless
all the parties in the court below, to a joint judgment or decree, were made parties in this court by the writ of error or
by the appeal, the cause would not be entertained. This
was first held as to judgment at law, in the case of Willia ms v. Bank of Vnited Slates,* and as to decrees in chancery, in the case of Owings v. Kineannon.t At the next
term of the court after this last decision, we have the first
of the class of cases to which we have alluded. It is the
case of Deneale v. Slump's Eixeculors.t The writ described
the plaintiffs in error as "Mary Deneale and others," and
the reasons given for dismissing it are two: 1st, that all the
parties against whom the judgment was rendered must join
in the writ, which is not done by naming some of them
merely as "others;" and, 2d, that the names should be set
forth, that this court might render the proper judgment in
the case. The opinions in the three cases last cited were
delivered by C. J. Marshall.
The next of this class of cases is that of Wilson's HUeirs v.*
The Insurance Company,§ in which the court holds that a writ
in the name of tl "Heirs of Nicholas Wilson," must be
dismissed. The court simply says, that this is done on the
authority of Owings v. .ineannon, and of Deneale v. Slump's
Executors. The subsequent cases are all based on the authority of these decisions. In all of them it appeared by
the writ that there were parties to the judgment below, not
personally named in the writ. But an examination of this
writ of error raises no such presumption. Nor can the court
be at any loss from this writ, to properly name the party or
parties for and against whom it will render its judgment,
when it has decided the merits of the controversy.
The present case, therefore, does not fall within the prin* 11 Wheaton, 414.

f 7 Peters, 399.

1 8 Id. 526.

12 Id. 140.

Dec. 1867.]

GRISAR V. McDOWELL.

36

Syllabus.

ciple of any of the numerous cases cited by counsel, or of
others examined by the court.
MJOTION OVERRULED.

IROTE.

This case came on afterwards to be argued on its merits, and
was elaborately so argued by the same.counsel who had argued
the motion to dismiss; but it being discovered by the court that
the bill of exceptions, which occupied seven-tenths of a closelyprinted record of 522 pages, had not been either signed or sealed
by the judge belowMr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the following opinion of the
court.
Whatever might be our opinion of the exceptions which appear in the record, if they were presented in such a way that
we could consider them, we find them beyond our reach. The
bill of exceptions, or what purports to be a bill of exceptions,
covering more than three hundred and fifty pages of the printed
record, is neither signed nor sealed by the judge who tried the
case; and there is nothing which shows that it was submitted
to him or in any way received his sanction.
We are therefore constrained to affirm the judgment, and
it is

ArFIRMED ACCORDINGLY.

GRISAR V. McDOWELL.
3. By the laws of Mexico, which prevailed in California at the date of the
conquest, pueblos or towns, when once established and officially recognized, were entitled, for their benefit and the benefit of their inhabitants,
to the use of lands, embracing the site of such pueblos or towns, and of
adjoining lands within certain prescribed limits. These laws provided for
an assignment to the pueblos of such lands, which were not to exceed in
extent four square leagues. The assignment was to be made by the public
authorities; and the land was to be measured off in a square or prolonged
form, according to the nature and condition of the country. All lands
within the general limits stated, which were required for public purposes, were reserved from the assignment.
2. Until the lands were definitely assigned, the right of the pueblo was an
imperfect one. The government might refuse to recognize it at all, or
might recognizelit in a qualified form, and it might be restricted to less
limits than the four square leagues. After the assignment, the right of

