Dec. 1867.]

CITY OF

WASHINGTON V. DENNISON.

495

Statement of the case.

CITY OF WASHINGTON V. DENNISON.
I. A writ of error not sealed until eleven days after the judgment which it
would seek to reverse was rendered, cannot operate as a supersedeas.
2. Nor one where there has been an omission to serve the citation before the
return day of the writ.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

This was a motion for a supersedeas of an execution against
the City of Washington, plaintiffs in error, founded upon a
writ of error, bond and citation, in compliance with the twenty-second and twenty-third sections of the Judiciary Act.
The twenty-second section referred to, enacts that this court
may examine judgments in Circuit Courts upon writ of error,
to which shall be annexed and returned therewith, at the day.
and place therein mentioned, an authenticated transcript of
the record, an assignment of errors and prayer for reversal,
with a citation to the adverse party, signed, &c., and the adverse party having at least thirty days' notice.
The twenty-third section enacts, that this writ of error
"Shall be a supersedeas and stay of execution in cases only
where the writ of error is served by a copy thereof being lodged
for the adverse party in the clerk's,office where the record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive, after rendering the judgment complained of."
In the present case the judgment was rendered on the
23d of November, 1867. The writ of error, though made out
before and placed in the clerk's office, was not sealed till the
6th of December, which was eleven days after the judgment
was rendered.
The term of the court for 1867 began on the 2d of December. The citation was served on the 6th of that month.
Mr. . 1t. Bradley, for,the plaintiff in error; Messrs. 1)avidge
and Fendall, contra.

496

CITY

Or

WASHINGTON V. DENNISON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The act gave to the city ten days, exclusive of Sundays,
to sue out the writ of eeror, and take the other necessary
steps which are required to operate as a supersedeas. The
ten days expired on the 5th of December.
According to the settled practice, if the writ of error is
sued out before the first day of the term, it must be made
returnable on the first day of the next term, and so as to the
citation; and, if sued out after, it must be made returnable
the first day of the succeeding term.*
The cases cited also show, that both the writ and citation
must be served before the return day-the writ by filing it
in the clerk's office, and the citation by serving it on the
party, or his attorney, or counsel.
In the present case it is, perhaps, sufficiently shown that
the writ was placed in the clerk's office before the return
day, but it was not sealed till the 5th of December, and
until then it was a nnllity.t Writs of error from this court
to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia are sued
out under the same regulations as in cases of judgments in
the Circuit Courts of the United States.1
The writ, therefore, not being sealed till the 5th day of
December, eleven days after the judgment, it was too late
to operate as a supersedeas, and it cannot be amended in
this respect, as was held in Rodge et al. v. Williarns.ยง
But if this objection could have been avoided, the omission to serve the citation before the return day of the writ
is fhtal.* It was not served till 6th of December.
MOTION DENIED.

I

* Villabolos v. "United States, 6 Howard, 89, 90; United States v. Curry,

Id. 106, 112; Insurance Co. v. Mordecai, 21 Id. 195.
- Overton v. Check, 22 Howard, 46; Act of Congress, May 8, 1792,
Brightly's Digest, 234, 5; 12 Stat. at Large, 764; 11.
. 22 Howard, 87.

9.

