458

DOE,

LESSEE OF

PooR,

v. CONSIDINE.

[SUp. Ct

Statement of the case.

that it remained in the office, a certiorariwouldhave been sent
down on a prayer of diminution; but as it has been satisfactorily proved to have been lost or destroyed, it is not a
case for a certiorari.
The Palmyra*is an authority for granting the relief sought
at the succeeding term of the court in a case like the pres.
ent. In that case, when the cause was called at the February Term, 1825, upon an inspection of the record, it did
not appear from the transcript that there had been a final
decree rendered in the court below, and for this reason the
appeal was dismissed. At the next term, it having been
shown the omission was the error of the clerk in making out
the transcript, the cause was reinstated on the docket. Mr.
Justice Story says, "The reinstatement of the cause was
founded, in the opinion of the court, upon the plain principles of justice, and is according to the known practice of
other judicial tribunals in like cases."
MOTION -GRANTED.

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.
1. Though a devise to trustees "1and their heirs," passes, as a general thing,
the fee, yet where the purposes of a trust and the power and duties of
the trustees are limited to objects terminating with lives in being,where the duties of the trustees are wholly passive, and the trust thus
perfectly dry,-the trust estate may be considered as terminating on the
efflux of the lives. The language used in creating the estate will be
limited to the purposes of its creation.
2. Estates in remainder vest at the earliest period possible, unless there be a
clear manifestation of the intention of the testator to the contrary.

And in furtherance of this principle, the expression " upon the decease of
A., I give and devise the remainder," construed to relate to the time of
the enjoyment of the estate, and not the time of the vesting in interest.

3. 'Where the language of a statute, read in the order of clauses as passed,
presents no ambiguity, courts will not attempt by transposition of clauses,
and from what it can be ingeniously argued was a general intent, to
qualify, by construction,.the meaning.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
12 Wheaton, 10.

Dcc. 1867.]

DOE,

LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

459

Statement of the case.

The lessors of the plaintiff in error brought an action of
ejectment in that court to recover certain real estate now
here in controversy. The parties agreed upon the facts.
Under the instructions given to the jury, they found for the
defendants, and judgment was rendered accordingly.
The plaintiff excepted to the instructions, and this writ
was prosecuted upon the ground that they were erroneous.
The ficts, as agreed on, were as follows:
William Barr, Senior, died on the 15th of May, 1816, leaving a will duly admitted to probate in Hamilton County,
Ohio. It was out of the will that the controversy arose.
The testator left three daughters: Mary, the wife of William Barr; Susan, the wife of John B. Enness; and Mary B.,
the wife of Ja-mes Keys. He left also one son, John M.
Barr, who, at the time of his father's death, had living, a
wife, Maria, Barr, and an infant daughter, Mary Jane Barr.
John M. Barr, the son of the testator, died on the 10th of
August, 1820.
Mary Jane Barr, the daughter of John M. Barr, died on
the 27th of November, 1821. Maria Barr, her mother, died
on the 3d of August, 1860.
The sons-in-law and daughters of the testator were all
dead, each one leaving children born in lawful wedlock.
The testator also left living at the time of his death four
brothers and two sisters. They are all dead. Two of them
left no lineal heirs.
The will contained among others the following provisions:
"I give and devise unto my sons-in-law, William Barr, James
Keys, and John B. Enness, of Cincinnati aforesaid, and to their
heirs, all and singular, that certain farm, tract or parcel of land,
situate, lying, and being in the county of Hamilton, State of
Obio, which I purchased of John Cross, containing one hundred
and sixty acres, to hold the same premises to them and their
heirs in trust, (first) for the use of my son, John M. Barr, during
his natural life; but, nevertheless, to permit and suffer my son,
John Al. Barr, to hold, use, occupy, possess, and enjoy the said
farm, and to receive and take the rents and profits thereof, during his natvral life. And in case my said son, John M. Barr,

Don, LiESSEE

160

OF

POOR, v. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ct,,

Statement of the case.
should die leaving a legitimate child, or children, then, also, in
trust for Maria Barr, wife of the said John Al. Barr, in case she
survive him, during her natural life, for the purpose of maintaining herself and the said child, or children, and educating the
said children; but, nevertheless, to permit and suffer the said
Maria Barr, wife of the said John M. Barr, to hold, use, occupy,
possess, and enjoy the said farm, and to receive and take the
rents and profits thereof, during her natural life. And upon the
decease of the said iXaria Barr, wife of the said John M. Barr, in
case she survive him; if not, then upon the decease of the said John
M Barr,I do further give and devise the remainder of my estate
in said farm unto the legitimate child, or children, of the said
John M. Barr, and their heirs forever. If my said son leave but
one child, as afbresaid, then I give and devise the said farm to
him or her, or his or her. heirs forever. But, if he leave two or
more children, then I give and devise the said farm unto such
children and their heirs, to be equally divided between them.
But should my said son, John M. Barr, die without leaving any
issue of his body, then, and in that case, I do give and devise
the remainder of my estate in the said farm unto my said sonsin-law, William Barr, James Keys, and John B. Enness, and
their heirs forever.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Also, I do further give, devise, and bequeath the remainder
of my estate, both real and personal, to my sons-in-law, William
Ba r, James Keys, and John B. Enness."
John M. Barr having died, leaving no issue but Mary
Jane Barr, and she having died in infancy, unmarried, and
the life estate of her mother, Maria Barr, having terminated
by the death of that person, the question was presented, In
whom is vested the title to the premises in controversy?
The lessors of the plaintiffs claimed title under the three
sons-in-law of the testator, or their wives, -who were his
daughters.
The defendants claimed through the heirs of the brothers
and sisters of the testator, under the statute of descents of
Ohio, of the 80th of December, 1815, which was as follows:

§ I. That when any person shall die intestate, having title to
any real estate of inheritanhe lying and being in this State, which

Dec. 1867.]

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

461

Statement of the case.

title shall have come to such intestate by descent, devise, or deed
of gift from an ancestor, such estate shall descend and pass in
parcenary to his or her kindred, in the following course:
1. To the children of such intestate or their legal representatives.
2. If there be no children, or their legal representatives, the
estate shall pass to the brothers and sisters of the intestate, who
may be of the blood of the ancestor from whom the estate came,
or their legal representatives, whether such brothers and sisters
be of the whole or of the half blood of the intestate.
3. If there be no brothers and sisters of the intestate of the
blood of the ancestor from whom the estate came, or their legal
representatives, and if the estate came by deed of gift from an
ancestor who may be living, the estate shall ascend to such ancestor.
4. If there be neither brother nor sister of the intestate of the'
blood of the ancestor from whom the estate came, or their legal
representatives, and if the ancestor from whom the estate came
be deceased, the estate shall pass to the brothersand sisters of the
ancestor from whom the estate came, or their legal representatives; and for want of such brothers and sisters, or their legal
representatives, to the brothers and sisters of the intestate of
the half blood, or their legal representatives, though such
brothers and sisters be not of the blood of the ancestor from
whom the estate came.
5. If there be no brothers or sisters of the intestate, or their
legal representatives, the estate shall pass to the next of kin to
the intestate of the blood of the ancestor from whom the estate
came.
The court instructed the jury1. That at the death of the said Mary Jane Barr, the granddaughter of the testator and daughter of said John M. Barr. she
was seized of a vested remainder.
2. That at the death of the said Mary Jane Barr, her said
estate in said farm descended to the brothers and sisters of the
said testator then alive, and the legal representatives of such
of them as were then deceased.
3. That the trust estate to the sons-in-law was only an estate
par autre rie and terminated at the death of Maria Barr; ',ul

DOE, LEssEE OF POORi V. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

whether that trust estate continued or not after her death the
result is the same, for if the estate so vested in Mary Jane Barr
were only an equitable estate, no recovery could be had against
the parties in possession under her title, in favor of the trustees
or their heirs; and in no event, except the death of John M1.
Barr without issue, did the will give to the sons-in-law any interest in the property in controversy, other than the temporary
trust estate.
The correctness of these instructions was the matter before
the court.
Messrs. T. -Ewing &ndH. H. Hunter, for the plaintiffs in
error:
Two controlling.questions are presented, the determination of either of which, in favor of the plaintiff, must result
in a reversal, namely:
-irst. Whether the devise over, of the remainder in fee,
to the sons-in-law, took effect on the death of Maria Barr,
in favor of their heirs, they being dead, the issue of John
A11. Barr having failed by the death of his daughter Mary
Jane, without issue, in the lifetime of the said Maria?
Second. Whether, assuming that the remainder in fee did
not vest in the heirs of said sons-in-law, on the death of the
said Maria, in virtue of the devise to them, the said heirs-atlaw, being also heirs-at-law of their deceased mothers-the
daughters of the testator-did not inherit the said remainder
under the statute of descents, from the said Mary Jane, as
her next of kin, of the blood of the testator, the ancestor, from
whom the estate came?
A legal estate infee passed to the trustees, auid continued in
them during the life of John M. Barr, and during the life
of his wife-each of them holding only an equitable use during
their respective lives. During the life of the father-and
after his death, during the life of the mother-no fee vested
in the issue of the marriage. If the fee continued in the
trustees till the death of the wife, the remainder to the issue,
which was afee also, could not vest till that time. Two distinct fees in the same tenements, cannot, under any circumetan(es, be made to coexist. The remainder given is a

Dec. 1867.]

DOE,

LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

463

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

remainder in fee; it can, therefore, never vest until the fee
given to the trustees ceases, and as the fee given to them
must continue until both the parents die, the fee given to the
child cannot vest until both parents are dead.
We need not inquire whether, up to the time of the termination of the life estate, under the circumstances, active
duties might not have been devolved upon the trustees.
There would have been, if the widow had been ousted by a
wrongdoer. But be that as it may, the legal title was vested
in them, in trust, and it cannot be pretended, that, so long
as the life estate continued, they could have been required,
by anybody interested, to convey to them the legal title.
What was the testator's intent in placing the legal title
pending the estate for life, in the hands of his sons-in-law,
his residuary legatees? Plainly that, if the issue of his son
should fail in the meantime, the title should then be in the
possession of those, in whose behalf was included in his will
the alternative devise of the remainder.
Did the remainder devised to the child or children of John
M. Barr, "upon the decease of Afaria Barr," vest in Mary Jane
and her heirs forty years before it was expressed to be devised to her?
The time of the remainder vesting could not be more distinctly and definitely fixed than it is in'this will. The devisor
does not say that the issue of John M. Barr shall come irdo
possession on the decease of Maria Barr, but he says, "upon
the decease of Maria Barr, I give and devise the remainder."
The estate commences at the time of the happening of the
event named in the devise-that is, "upon the decease." We
use this term habitually in this sense. "A. inherited upon
the decease of his father." A gift "upon" a day is not a
gift forty years before the day; or a gift "upon" the happening of an event, a gift before the event happens.
Children and heirs, and issue in this devise, all mean the
same thing. This is but in accordance with settled rule.*
* Gale v. Bennet, Ambler, 681; Wytbe v. Thureston, Id. 555; S. 0. 1
Voey, 196; Vllicombe v. Gompertz, 3 Arylne & Craig, 154; Stevenson v.

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

Issue is the only term which will represent the will of the
testator in every situation. Thus, in the trust to support
and educate the children of John M. Barr charged on Maria
Barr's life estate, grandchildren were doubtless also intended,
and issue in its strict sense would embrace them.
Now, when is the failure of issue contemplated by the testator when he says, "Should my said son John M. Barr die
without leaving any issue of his body, then and in that case
I do give .and devise the remainder of my estate in the said
farm to my said sons-in-law, &c., and their heirs forever"to take place? Is it at the instant of the death of John M.
Barr? Is it an indefinite failure of issue? Or is it a failure
of issue at the falling in of the last life estate? The last
would best conform to legal rules, and also much the best
to the general intent of the testator. There can be no rational object in fixing it at any other time or the happening
of any other event, and the court habitually moulds adverbs
of time, and phrases implying time, to meet the intent of
testators, and subserve the ends of justice.* Such adverbs
and such phrases geneirally relate to the taking effect in possession, not in estate, in case of a devise in remainder, so as
to make it vested rather than contingent. But this adverbial
rule is merely ancillary to the great rule of carrying out the
intent, and where it does not aid and support that, it is not
to be regarded. The words and phrases must be understood
in their popularly accepted meaning wherever that meaning
will best carry out the intent. It would be a monstrous
perversion to accept and sustain a rule, no matter by whom
devised, or by whom or how many adopted, the obvious effect
of which would be to defeat the intention of the devisor.
The rule, as it is called, that holds a remainder vested even
by forcing the language, has its origin in a purpose to save,
not to defeat, the intent of the grantor or devisor by saving
the remainder from many of the accidents which destroy it
Evans, 10 Ohio State, 315; King v. Beck, 15 Id. 564; Collier v. Collier: 3 Id.
75; Malcolm v. Taylor, 2 Russell & Mylne, 416.
* Browster v. Benedict, 14 Ohio, 384.

Dec. 1867.]

DOE, LESSEE OP POOR, v.

CONSIDINE.

465

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

if contingent.* Yet, even ii these cases, the early vesting
of a remaindet is not an end, but a means ; and if it do not
tend to carry out and effect the true end-the transfer of the
estate in accordance with the will of the devisor-it is not
to be respected as a rule. If it tend to defeat the paramount
end-that end for the effecting of which all rules were adopted
-it must be rejected as an error and a mischief.
This case is subject to none of the casualties attending remote remainders against which early vesting was intended
to guard. It would not be subject to them in England,
being protected against them by the attendant trust estate
in the sons-in-law. But destroy the effect of the phrase
"11uonthe decease of Maria Barr," and make the estate vest
in the issue of John M. Barr one life or two lives sooner
than the devisor intended, you defeat the general intent of
the devisor; and the clause so construed passes the estate
out of the issue of the devisor and out of his devisees, and
vests it in collaterals. Olney v. Hullt is in point. In that
case the devise was of the testator's lands to his wife while
she remained his widow; but, in case of her death or marriage, the land then to be divided among his surviving sons.
It was held that the devise over was to such of his sons as
should be survivors at the termination of the wife's estate
for life, and that the remainder was contingent upon the
uncertainty which of the sons should then be living. "Until
the death of the mother it was uncertain which of the sons
would be alive to tdke?" The court treated the language
used as it would be treated in the every-day business of life.
It understood the devisor's plain language without resorting
to cases and digests to find out what somebody else said or
meant; and which, when found and applied to his devise,
would have defeated the estate which he intended to create.
It will be argued that the intent of the devisor will be best
carried out by making the remainder to the children of John
Al. Barr vest at once, so that the estate will pass to their
heirs, inasmuch as they are the first objects of the testator's
* Cruise's Digest, tit. 16, chap. 6, passim, ch. 7, sec. 1.
f 21 Pickering, 314.

VOL. VI.

80

466

DOE,

LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

bounty, and he intended the estate for them. Certainly, he
intended it for them, if living, and our construction takes
nothing from the devise to the living issue of John M. Barr,
But, when all were dead-a state of things contemplated
and provided for-who were ,the next objects of the testator's bounty, his own descendants or collateral relatives?
The devise over to the sons-in-law answers the question.
The testator provides for his daughters by implication
through them.
But, assuming that Mary Jane had, at the time of her
death, a vested estate descendible through her under the
devise from her ancestor, William Barr, to whom does that
estate pass under the statute of descents ?
Thefirst,second and third classes provided for in that statute
are in our case wanting; but the next of kin ofthe intestate of
the blood of the ancestorfrom whom the estate came, living at
the death of the intestate, were the three daughters of the said
ancestor; and the plaintiff's lessors are their heirs-at-law, or
claim under such heirs. They are clearly entitled to the
inheritance under thefifth clause of the section, unless, upon
a proper construction, the brothers and sisters of the ancestor
from whom the estate came, are, by the first part of the fourth
clause of the section, to be preferred to his children.
That construction is unnatural; and no other reason can
be assigned in favor of it than that the fourth clause is inserted before the fifth, in successive order, in framing the
section. This, however, is merely a mechanical arrangement. Now, although the mechanical structure of the different parts of the act is such that the successive priorities
in favor of one class of legal representatives of an intestate
over another, is generally indicated by the successive order
observed in the structure of the act, yet that is not, upon
any sound principle, such a circumstance as should have a
controlling effect, or subvert a manifest intention otherwise
apparent.
We would read the fourth clause before the fifth.
This arrahgement will not in the least impair the effect

Dec. 1867.]

DOE, LESSEE OF'PooR, v. CONSIDINE.

467

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

of each of the clauses of the section in their proper ai)plication to facts as they may arise in cases.

Full effect will be

given to the fifth clause by applying it to the facts of this
case; and this may be done without changing a word or a
letter, and without any transposition or displacement of any
of the clauses, or parts of the section; and without preventing the due application of the fourth clause to the facts of
cases in which it is properly applicable.
Here, the general intent in regard to estates in lands of
which an intestate died seized, the title to which came to
him by devise, descent, or deed of gift, from an ancestor, is,
that if the intestate leave no child, or brother or sister, or their
legal representatives, the estate shall pass' to such of the
legal representatives of the intestate, according to the statutory canons of descent, as are of the blood of the ancestor
from whom the estate came; and surely the general intent
in regard to the order of succession amongst those who shall
take by reason of their being of the blood of the ancestor,
must be taken to be according to the same statutory canons
of descent. No arbitrary departure from this obvious general intent can be recognized, unless required by very express and vigorous language.
Authorities show that a mechanical order may be departed
from, to reach by construction a general intent.
In an Ohio case,* the court in construing an act of the

legislature so as to make it conform to the legislative intent,
held that a clause which was included in the second section
of the act, should be read as if included in the first section,
and as qualifying the provisions of that section. Other casest
indicate the same superior value of a general intent over
mere mechanical structure.
If this argument be rejected, it will be only because of a
supposed conflict between the forth and fifth clauses. The
facts of the case are fitted to the terms of thefifth clause, and
The State ex rel. Commissioners of Ross Co. v. The Z. & M. Turnpike
Co., 16 Ohio State, 308.
t Fosdick v. Perrysburg, 14 Ohio State, 472; Slater v. Cave, 3 Id 80;
Tracy v. Card, 2 Id 431; Burgett v. Burgett, I Ohio, 469-79-80.

468

DoE, LEssEE OF POOR, v. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendants in error.

by force of that clause, abstractly considered, carried the remainder in fee, on the death of Mary Jane, to her aunts, the
daughters of the testator, as ber.heirs-at-law. INow if this
result is in any way doubtful, it can only be because thefirst
part of the fourth clause conflicts with the fifth clause, and
seems to admit of being so applied as to sustain the claim
asserted by the defendants, that the brothers and sisters of
the testator, and not his daughters, were the heirs-at-law of
said Mary Jane. Admitting (what we do not concede) that
there is such conflict between the provisions, which shall give
place to the other ? The rule applicable to the construction
of conflicting statutory provisions is, that the last in order
of time, or in the order of their being set down in the enactment, must take effect; the same rule, both of reason and
necessity, as in the familiar case of conflicting provisions in
a will.*
Messrs. Stanbery and I. H Lincoln, contra, argued the case
elaborately on principle and on authorities,t contending1. That the devise to the trustees carried the legal estate
after the death of John M. Barr, to the cestui que trusts; there
having been no duty imposed on the trustees which required
that estate to be longer in the trustees; a point, however,
which the counsel did not consider important; equitable estates being subject as to devises and descents to the same rule
as legal ones.
2. That the remainder to Maria Jane Barr was at no time
a contingent remainder, she being in esse at the death of the
testator.
8. That it was from the first a vested remainder, but during the life of the father was subject to be devested in the
event of her not surviving her father and by force of the devise over to the sons-in-law on that event.
* The Attorney-General v. The Governor and Company of Chelsea Waterworks, Fitzgibbon, 195; Townsend v. Brown, 4 Zabriskie, 80; Ham v. The
State, &c., 7 Blackford, 314; Doev. Leicester, 2 Taunton, 109.
t For most of the authorities, relied on also in the opinion, see infra, pp.
47-5-7.

Dec. 1867.]

DOE,

LESSEE OF POOR, V.

CONSIDINE.

469

Opinion of the court.

4. That at the death of the father this vested remainder
became absolute-and fully vested in right, though postponed
as to enjoyment until the death of the mother-but not defeasible, as before, on her death during the life of her
mother.
5. That Maria Jane Barr having been vested with this remainder at the date of her death, and she dying intestate,
the estate descended, under the statute of descents of 1815,
and on the plain meaning of that statute if read in its declared order-the only allowable order-to the brothers and
sisters of the testator.
The counsel in support of their views submitted the opinions of eminent lawyers of Ohio, including those of Messrs.
Timothy Walker, J. C. Wright, Tappan Wright, Nathan
Wright, and J. A. Pugh, given many years ago, on this
same title, to persons as was said about to purchase, and in
accordance with the view assumed by the court below.
They referred also to an act of the Ohio legislature, passed
in 1835,* changing the provisions of the act of 1815, which
confessedly governed this case, to the extent, but no further,
of carrying the estate to the children of the ancestor from
whom the same came, and next after them to his brothers
and sisters; that which the opposite counsel contended was
already the rule under the act of 1815; but which if it had
been as was now argued, would have rendered the act of
188"5 useless.
.LMr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
I. At the threshold of the subject before us, the inquiry
arises as to the extent of the trust estate vested by the will
in the three sons-in-law of the testator.
The determination of this point is not vital in the case;
for whether they took the legal fee or not, and whether the
estate of Mary Jane Barr was legal or equitable in its character, the result must be the same. The same rules of law
apply to descents and devises of both classes of estates; and
* 1 Curwen, 199.

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. C

Opinion of the court.

if in this case an equitable fee in remainder was vested in
Mary Jane Barr at the time of her death, while the legal
fee as a dry trust was held by the sons-in-law, those holding
the latter title could not recover in this action against parties clothed with the equitable estate, and entitled to the
entire beneficial use of the property.* But we entertain no
doubt upon the subject.
The devise contains words of inheritance. It is to the
trustees "and to their heirs." This language, if unqualified,
by anything else in the clause, would pass the fee. But when
we look to the purposes of the trust, and the power and
duties of the trustees, we find them limited to two objects:
1. The trustees were to permit John M. Barr to enjoy the
premises and receive the rents, issues and profits during his
life.
2. If John M. Barr should die, leaving issue, and his
wife Maria should survive him, then they were to permit
her, during her life, to enjoy the possession and profits of
the property. A drier trust could not have been created. The duties of
the trustees were wholly passive. They were authorized to
do no act. They were simply to hold the estate committed
to them until one or both the events defining the boundary
of its existence had occurred. It was to subsist in any event
during the life of John L Barr, and if he died, leaving
issue, and his wife survived him, it was to subsist also during
her life. The executors were directed, in any event, to make
an expenditure upon the property, and to take the fund from
the personal estate. This duty had no connection with the
trust, and its bearing upon the case is in nowise affected by
the fact that the executors and trustees happened to be the
same persons. Whether John M. Barr died with or without
issue, the entire object of the trust was fulfilled, and its functions were exhausted when the persons for whose benefit it
" 4 Kent's Corn. 334, 385; Brydges v. Brydges, 3 Vesey, Jr., 127; Cholmondeley v. Olinton, 2 Jacob & Walker, 148; Brydges v. Duchess of Chandos, 3 Vesey, Jr., 417, 426; Walton v. Walton, 7 Johnson's Chancer:, 270;
The City of Cincinnati v. Lessee of White, 6 Peters, 441.

Dec. 1867.] DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

471

Opinion of the court.

was created ceased to live. "The remainder of the estate in
said farm," in the language of the testator, thereupon passed
according to the provisions of the will. It is neither expressed nor implied that the trust estate should exist any
longer, and no imaginable purpose could be subserved by
its longer continuance. When a trust has been created, it
is to be held large enough to enable the trustee to accomplish the objects of its creation. If a fee simple estate be
necessary, it will be held to exist though no words of limitation be found in the instrument by which the title was
passed to the trustee, and the estate created. On the other
hand, it is equally well settled that where no intention to the
contrary appears, the language used in creating the estate
will be liniited and restrained to the purposes of its creation.
And when they are satisfied, the estate of the trustee ceases
to exist, and his title becomes extinct. The extent and duration of the estate are measured by the objects of its creation.
Jarman says:* "Trustees take exactly the estate which
the purposes of the trust require; and the qtfestion is not
whether the testator has used words of limitation, or expressions adequate to carry an estate of inheritance; but whether
the exigencies of the trust demand the fee simple, or can be
satisfied by any and what, less estate."
Chancellor Kent says: "The general rule is that a trust
estate is not to continue beyond the period required by the
purposes of the trust; and notwithstanding the devise to the
trustees and their heirs, they take only a chattel interest where
the trust does not require an estate of higher quality."t
This doctrine rests upon a solid foundation of reason and
authority, irrespective of the presence or absence of the
statute of uses. The consequences in this case of the absence of such a statute in Ohio, it is therefore not necessary
to consider.
2 Jarman on 'Wills, 156.
j 4 Kent's Commentaries, 233; see also 'Webster v. Cooper, 14 Howard
499; Neilson v. Lagow et al., 12 Id. 110; Doe ex dem. Compere v. Hicks, 7
Term, 437; Curtis v. Price, 12 Vesey, Jr., 99; Morrant v. Gough, 7 Barnewall & Cresswell, 206; 1 Greenleaf's Cruise, 359, note.

DOE,

LESSEE OF

PoOR, v. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

We are of opinion that the trust estate of the sons-in-law
of the testator was only an estate par autre vie, and that it
terminated at the death of Maria Barr.
I. This brings us to the consideration of the questiop,
what was the estate, in quantity and quality, of Mary Jane
Barr at' the time of her decease?
The hinge upon which turns this part of the controversy is
the following language of the will:
"And upon the decease of the said Maria Barr, wife of the
said Joh M. Barr, in case she survive him; if not; then upon
the decease of the said John H. Barr, I do furth& give and
devise the remainder of my estate in said farm unto the legitimate
child or children qf the said John 1. Barr, and their heirs forever. If my said son leave but one child, as 'aforesaid,
then I give the said farm to him or her, or his or her heirs
forever. But, if he leave two or more children, then I give
and devise the said farm unto such children, and their heirs,
to be equally divided between them. But should my said
son, John M.*Barr, die without leaving any issue of his
body, then, and in that case, I do give and devise the remainder of my estate in the said farm unto my said sons-inlaw, William Barr, James Keys, and John B. Enness, and
their heirs forever."
The plaintiff in error claims that this clause is an executory devise, and that it gave tQ Mary Jane Barr a contingent
estate, to take effect upon the event of her outliving both her
parents, and not otherwise; and that as she died before her
mother, no title or interest ever vested in her.
The defendants claim that upon the death of the testator,
Mary Jane Barr took under the will a vested remainder, subject to open and let in after-born children, if any there were,
and deferred as. to the period of enjoyment until the death
of the one parent who should survive the other, but liable
to no other contingency, and limited by no other qualification.
This point of the will must be examined by its own light,
and also iih the light of the adjudications in like cases.
Considering it without the aid of authority, we have no

Dec. 1867.]

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

473

Opinion of the court.

difficulty in coming to a conclusion as to its proper construction.
We think that it gives:
1. A legal estate par autre vie, to three sons-in-law in
trust.
2. An equitable life estate, with the usufruct'of the property to John M. Barr.
8. In case he should die, leaving issue, and his wife Maria
should survive him, then an equitable estate for life to her
with the usufruct of the property, for the benefit of herself
and the surviving child or children of John . Barr.
4. A vested remainder in fee simple to the child of John
M. Barr, living at the time of the death of the testator, subject to open and let in the participation of after-born children, and liable to be devested by their dying before their
father, but not liable to be defeated by any other event.
5. The devise over to the three sons-in-law was an alternate or collateral contingent remainder; and if John M.
Barr had died leaving no children survivingohim, that remainder would thereupon at once have vested and been converted into an absolute fee simple estate.*
In no event, except the death of John M. Barr without
issue, did the will give them any interest in the property
other than the temporary trust estate.
By the vesting of the remainder in Mary Jane Barr, at
the death of the testator and the death of her father, this
provision in behalf of the sons-in-law became as if it were
not. It was utterly annulled, and could not thereafter take
effect either as a contingent remainder or as an executory
devise. We are satisfied the testator did not extend his
vision or seek to control this property beyond the period of
the death of his son, John Ml. Barr. With a view to that
event he made two provisions equally absolute, emphatic,
and final in their terms. In that respect there.is no difference. The result, whether the one or the other should take
* Luddington v. Kime, 1 Lord Raymond, 203; Dunwoodie v. Reed, 3 Ser.
geant & Rawle. 452; V. J. Gibson's opinion.

174

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

effect, was to depend upon the single fact whether John M.
Barr died with or without surviving children.
The language used carried the entire estate of the testator
in the premises alike in both cases, and we can no more hold
the word "heirs" to be the synonym of "issue," or otherwise qualify the estate intended to be given in the one case
than in the other.
The theory of the counsel for the plaintiff derives no support from the principle of human nature, which not unfrequently impels a testator to transmit his property, as far as
possible, in the line of his descendants. Here Ba'rr, Keys
and Enness were not of the blood of the testator. He could
not but be aware that if they took the property it might
pass from them, by descent or purchase, to those who were
strangers to his blood, and in nowise connected with his
family.
Having disposed of the property absolutely at the death
of his son, he left the future, beyond that boundary, with
its undeveloped phases, whatever they might be, to take care
of itself.
III. We will now examine the case in the light of principle and authority.
A vested remainder is where a present interest passes to a
certain and definite person, but to be enjoyed infuturo. There
must be a particular estate to support it. The remainder
must pass out of the grantor at the creation of the particular
estate. It must vest in the grantee during the continuance
of the estate, or eo instanti that it determines.
A contingent remainder is where the estate in remainder
is limited either to a dubious and uncertain parson, or upon
the happening of a dubious and uncertain event.
A contingent remainder, if it amount to a freehold, cannot
ne limited on an estate for years, nor any estate less than
freehold. A contingent remainder may be defeated by the
determination or destruction of the particular estate before
the contingency happens. Hence, ti'ustees are appointed to
preserve such remainders.
An executory devise is such a disposition of real property

Dec. 1867.]

DoE,

LESSEE OF

PooRi, v. CoNsiDINE.

475

Opinion of the court.

by will that no estate vests thereby at the death of the devisor, but only on a future contingency. It differs from a
remainder in three material points:
1. It needs no particular estate to support it.
2. A fee simple or other less estate may be limited by it
-after a fee simple.
8. A remainder may be limited, of a chattel interest, after
a particular estate for life in the same property.*
The law will not c6nstrue a limitation in a will into an
executory devise when it can take effect as a remainder, nor
a remainder to be contingent when it can be taken to be
vested.
It is a rule of law that estates shall be held to vest at the
earliest possible period, unless there be a clear manifestation
of the intention of the testator to the contrary.t
Adverbs of time-as where, there, after, from, &c.-in a devise of a remainder, are construed to relate merely to the
time of the enjoyment of the estate, and not the time of the
vesting in interest.t
Where there is a devise to a class of persons to take effect
in enjoyment at a future period, the estate vests in the persons as they come in esse, subject to open and let in others
as they are born afterward.§
2 Blackstone's Commentaries, chap. 12.
- Johnson v. Valentine, 4 Sandford, 43; Wrightson v. Macaulay, 14
Meeson & Welsby, 214; Chew's Appeal, 37 Penn. 28; Moore v. Lyons, 25
Wend. 126; Phipps v. Williams, 5 Simons, 44; Gold v. Judson, 21 Conn.
622 ; Redfield on Wills, 379 ; Finlay v. King, 3 Pet. 374, 5 Barr, 28; Carver v. Jackson, 4 Pet. 92; Purefoy v. Rogers, 2 Saunders, 388; Doe v.
Morgan, 3 Term, 765, 766; Nightingale v. Burrell, 15 Pick. 110.
I Johnson v. Valentine, 4 Sandford, 43 ; Moore v. Lyons, 25 Vendell,
119; Boraston's Case, 3 Coke, 20; Minnig v. Batdorff, 5 Barr, 506; Rives v.
Frizzle, 8 Iredell's Equity, 239.
Johnson v. Valentine, 4 Sandford, 45 ; Doe v. Provoost, 4 Johnson, 61;
Chew's Appeal, 37 Penn. 28; Doe v. Ward, 9 Adolphus & Ellis, 582, 607,
4 Dow, 203; Doe v. Nowell, 1 Maule & Selwyn, 334; Bromfield v. Crowder, 1 New Reports, 326; Phipps v. Aekers, 9 Clark & Finelly, 583; Doe v.
Prigg, 8 Barnewall & Cresswell, 235; Minnig v. Batdorff, 5 Barr, 505; Gold
v. Judson, 21 Conn. 623.

a

476

DOE, LESSEE OF PooR, r. CONSIDINE.

[Sup Ct.

Opinion of the court.

An estate once vested will not be devested unless the intent to devest clearly appears.*
The law does not favor the abeyance of .states, and never
allows it to arise by construction or implication.t
"When a remainder is limited to a person in esse and ascertained, to take effect by express limitation, on the termination
of the preceding particular estate, the remainder is unquestionably vested."I
This rule is thus stated with more fulness by the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts. "Where a remainder is limited to
take effect in possession, if ever, immediately upon the determination of a particular estate, which estate is to deter..
mine by an event that must unavoidably happen by the efflux of
time, the remainder vests in interest as soon as the remainderman is in esse and ascertained, provided nothing but his own
death before the determination of the particular estate, will
prevent such remainder from vesting in possession; yet, if
the estate is limited over to another in the event of the death
of the remainder-man before the determination of the particular estate, his vested estate will be subject to be devested
by that event, and the interest of the substituted remainderman which was before either an executory devise or a contingent remainder, will, if he is in esse and ascertained, be
immediately converted into a vested remainder."§
In 4th Kent's Commentaries, 282, it is said: "This has
now become the settled technical construction of the language and the established English rule of construction."j
It is added: "It is the uncertainty of the right of enjoyment,
and not the uncertainty of its actual eijoyment, which renders
a remainder contingent. The present capacity of taking effect
in possession-if the possession were to Become vacant-distinguishes a vested from a contingent remainder, and not the
Chew's Appeal, 45 Penn. 232; Harrison v. Foreman, 5 Vesey, 208; Doe
v. Perryn, 3 Term, 493; Smither v. Willock, 9 Vesey, 234.
-I Comyn's Dig., Abeyance, A. E. ; Catlin v. Jackson, 8 Johnson, 549;
Ekins v. Dormer, 3 Atkyns, 534.
Preston on Estates, 70.
Blanchard v. Blanchard, 1 Allen, 227.
jj Doe v. Prigg, 8 Barnewall & Cresswell, 231.

Dec. 1867.] DOE,

LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.
Opinion of the court.

certainty that the possession will ever become vacant while
the remainder continues."*

It is further said in the same volume:t "A. devises to
B. for life, remainder to his children, but if he dies without
leaving children remainder over, both the remainders are
continged, but if B. afterward marries and has a child, the
remainder becomes vested in that child, subject to open and
let in unborn children, and the remainders over are gone forever. The remainder becomes a vested remainder in fee in
the child as soon as the child is born, and does not wait for
the parent's death, and if the child dies in the lifetime of
the parent, the vested estate in remainder descends to his
heirs."I
We have quoted this language because of its appositeness
to the case under consideration. The propositions stated
are fully sustained by the authorities referred to. Other authorities, too numerous to be named, to the same effect,
might be cited. We content ourselves with referring to a
part of those to which our attention has been called in the
briefs in this case.§
This doctrine received the sanction of the Supreme Court
of Ohio in Jeefers v. Lanmpson,ll where it was adopted and applied. The leading authorities relied upon by the counsel
for defendants in error in this case were cited by the court
and control the result. We are bound by this decision as a
local rule of property.
Williamson v. Field, 2 Sandford's Chancery, 533.
t Page 284.
j Doerv. Perryn, 3 Term, 484 (Buller's opinion); Right v.Creber, 5 Barnewall & Cresswell, 866; Story, J., in Sisson v.Seabury, 1 Sumner, 243; Rannan v.Osborn, 4 Paige, 336; Marsellis v. Thalhimer, 2 Id. 35.
Harrison v Foreman, 5 Vesey, 208; Belk v.Slack, 1 Keen, 238; Bromfield v. Crowder, 1 New Reports, 325; Danforth v. Talbot, 7 B. 3Monroe,
624; Goodtitle v. 'Whitby, 1 Burrow, 234; Moore v. Lyons, 2.3
endell,
119; Randoll v. Doe, 5 Dow, 202; Edwards v. Symons, 6 Taunton, 214;
Phipps v. Ackers, 9 Clark & Finelly, 583; Stanley v. Stanley, 16 Vesey,
5116; Doe v. Nowell, 1 Maule & Selwyn, 334; Boraston's Case, 3 Coke, 52;
Doe v. Ewart, 7 Adolphus & Ellis, 636; Minnig v. Batdorff, 5 Barr, Pennsylvania State, 503.
1 10 Ohio State Rep. 101.

478

DOE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The same doctrine has been sanctioned by this court.*
According to the theory of the plaintiff's counsel, if Mary
Jane Barr had married and had died before her mother,
leaving children, they would have been cut off from the
estate. Surely the testator could not have intended such a
result.
In three of the cases, substantially like this as to the point
under consideration, brought to our attention by the counsel
for the defendants in error, this consequence of such a construction was adverted to by the court.
In 0rver v. Jackson,t the court say: "It is also the manifest intention of the settlement, that if there is any issue, or
the issue of any isue, such issue shall take the estate, which
can only be by construing the prior limitation in the manner
in which it is construed by this court."
In Goodlitle v. Whitby,t Lord Mansfield said: "Here, upon
the reason of the thing, the infant is the object of the testator's bounty, and the testator does not mean to deprive him
of it in any event. Now, suppose that the object of the testator's bounty marries and dies before his age of twentyone, leaving children, could the testator intend in such an event
to disinherit them ? Certainly he could not."
In Doe v. Perryn,§ Buller, Justice, said: "But if this were
held not to vest till the death of the parents, this inconvenience would follow, that it would not go to grandchildren; for if a child were born who died in the lifetime of
his parents, leaving issue, such grandchild could not take;
which could not be supposed to be the intention of the deVisor."
Mary Jane Barr was, at the death of the testator, within
every particular of the category, which, according to the anthorities referred to, creates a vested remainder.
1. The person to take was in esse.
*Finlay et al. v. King's Lessee, 3 Peters, 376; Carver v. Jackson, 4 Id. 1;
Williamson et al. v. Berry, 8 Howard, 495; Croxall v. Shererd, 5 Wallace,
280; see also Washburn on Real Property, 229, and 1 Greenleaf's Cruise,
tit. Remainder.
3 Term, 495.
1 Burrow, 233.
f I Peters, 1.

Dec. 1867.]

DoE, LESSEE OF POOR, V. CONSIDINE.

479

Opinion of the court.

2. She was ascertained and certain.
8. The estate was limited, to take effect in her absolutely,
upon the death of her father.
4. That was an event which must unavoidably happen by
the efflux of time.
5. Nothing but her death, before the death of her father,
would defeat the remainder limited to her.
6. She had a fixed right of property on the death of the
devisor. The period of enjoyment only was deferred and
uncertain.
7. The time of enjoyment in rossession depended upon the
death of her mother. The right was in nowise dependent
on that event.
8. Upon the death of her father, she surviving him, her
estate, before defeasible, became indefeasible and absolute.
We are thus brought to the conclusion, upon technical as
well as untechnical grounds, that Mlary Jane Barr had, at
the time of her death, an indefeasible estate.of remainder
in fee in the premises in controversy.
In the view we have taken of this case, the doctrine of
shifting uses can have no application; we therefore forbear
to advert to the rules of law relating to that subject.
IV. Mary Jane Barr having died unmarried and intestate,
it remains to inquire to whom her estate passed.
The descent cast was governed by the statute of December
30th, 1815.
The first section only applies to the subject.
The first part of the fourth clause of that section is as follows:
"4. If there be neither brotlter nor sister of the intestate
of the blood of the ancestor from whom the estate came, or
their legal representatives, and if the ancestor from whom
the estate came be deceased, the estate shall pass to the
brothers and sisters of the ancestor from whom the estate
came, or their legal representatives." This gave the property "to the brothers and sisters" of the testator, "or their
legal representatives."
The language of this clause is plain and unambiguous.

480

DoE,

LEssEE oF PooR, v. CONSIDINE.

[Sup. C.

Opinion of Grier and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

There is nothing in the context, rightly considered, which
qualifies"or affects it. There is,
we think, no room for construction.* We con6ur entirely in the views of the eminent
counsel, whose professional opinions, long since written, have
been submitted to us. We think the point hardly admits of
discussion. If there could be any doubt on the subject, it is
removed by the act of 1835, which substitutes for the rule
of descent here under consideration, the one which we are
asked to apply. Were we to adopt the construction claimed
by the plaintiff's counsel, instead of adjudicating we should
legislate. That we have no power to do. Our function is
to execute the law, not to make it.
The instructions given by the court to the jury were in
accordance with the views we have expressed. We find no
error in the record, and the judgment is
-.

AFFIRMIED.

Mr. Justice GRIER (with whom concurred CLIFFORD,
J.), dissenting.
I cannot let this case pass without expressing my entire
dissent from the conclusions of the majority of my brethren,
both on the construction of the will of William Barr and
the statute of descents of Ohio.
In the construction of a will the first great rule-one that
should control and govern all others-is, that the court
should seek the intention of the testator fr'om the four corners of his will. All technical rules, from Shelley's case down,
were established by courts only for the purpose of effectuating such intention. But it is easy to pervert the testator's
intention by an astute application of cases and precedents,
of which the present case is the last example of mhany which
have preceded it, and where the testator's intention is entirely defeated by the application of rules intended to effectuate it. The remainder in fee to the children of John M.
Barr was not to vest till the decease of .Maria Barr. "And
upon the decease of said Maria, I devise the remainder .of
Armstrong v. Miller, 6 Ohio, 124.

Dec. 1867.]

WALELEY V. CITY OF MUSCATINE.

481

Statement of the case.

my estate to the legitimate child or children of John M.
Barr and his heirs forever, remainder over to the testator's
sons-in-law in case of failure of such issue of the son." Such
is the language. By construing the remainder to vest before
"the decease of Maria Barr," the executory devise to the
sons-in-law is entirely defeated, and the clear intention of
the testator frustrated by factitious rules intended to facilitate its discovery.
It often happens that legislative acts require the same liberal rules of construction as wills, where the testator is presumed to be inops coneili. It only requires the reading of the
fifth section of the statute before the fourth in order to effectuate the intention of the legislature, and to clear it from the
absurdity of giving an intestate's estate, not to his next
of kin, but to his brothers and sisters, instead of his own
children.

WALKLEY V. CITY OF MUSCATINE.
After judgment at law for a sum of money against a municipal corporation,
and execution returned unsatisfied, mandamus, not bill in equity, is the
proper mode to compel the levy of a tax which the corporation was
bound to levy to pay the judgment.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for Iowa.
A bill had been filed in that court to compel the authorities of the city of Muscatine to levy a tax upon the property
of the inhabitants, for the purpose of paying the interest on,
certain bonds, to the amount of $130,000, that had been,
issued for the benefit of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company. It appeared that a judgment had been recovered in the same court against the city for $7666, interest
due on the bonds held by the plaintiff; .that execution. had
been issued and returned unsatisfied, no property being
found liable to execution; that the mayor and aldermen, had.

VOL. VI.

1

