Dec. 1867.]

CANAL

COMPANY V.

GORDON.

Syllabus.

other property of the defendant. It is therefore to all intents
and purposes an execution, and the statute expressly requires
that it must issue under the seal of the court. Without the
seal it is void. We cannot distinguish it from any other writ
or process in this particular.
It is equally clear that under the Indiana statute the sherifi
could not sell without this order, certified under the seal of
the court, and placed in his hands. This is his authority,
and if it is for any reason void, his acts purporting to be
done under it are also void.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CANAL COMPANY V.

GORDON.

1. The jurisdiction of a court of equity invoked to enforce a statutory lien,
rests upon the statute, and can extend no further.
2. Exceptions to the report of a master in chancery cannot be taken for the
first
time in this court.
3. In a contract to make and complete a structure, with agreements for
monthly payments, a failure to make a payment at the time specified is
a breach which justifies the abandonment of the work, and entitles the
contractor to recover a reasonable compensation for the work actually
performed. And this, notwithstanding a clause in the contract providing for the rate of interest which the deferred payment shall bear in
case of failure.
4. Where a release is fraudulently obtained from one of two joint contractors, the releasing contractor is not an indispensable party to a bill filed
by his co-contractor against the other party to the contract.
5. Such a release so fraudulently obtained, does not operate to invalidate the
lien previously secured.
6. A statute of California gives to mechanics a lien upon the flumes or
aqueducts "which they may have constructed or repaired," provided
suit be brought " within one year after the work is done." A canal
company, having a part of a canal already made, which they could use
at certain'times of the year, but to use which at all times and with complete effect, it was necessary to extend to a river giving a full supply of
water, employed two contractors to make this extension or new canal.
The work was to be paid for in monthly instalments. A failure to make
the monthly payment occurred June 7th, 1853. On the same ,lav the
contractors gave notice that the "1contract was annulled and at an end,"'
VOL.

1.

36

CANAL

COMPANY V.

GoRDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
and they "ro longer parties to it;" but to prevent injury to the company,stated that they would continue to work for another week, leaving
the subject of payment to the company's honor, when, unless a satisfactory arrangement was made, they would discontinue work. On the 13th,
no notice being taken of this letter, they again addressed the company,
saying that, receiving no reply, they withdrew their former offer and all
the note, except that part which declared the contract ended. On this
case,
Held,
i. That the lien was filed within the year.
i. That it affected only the extension or new canal.

from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of California; the case being thus:
A statute of California gives to all persons performing
labor or furnishing materials for the construction or repairs
of any building a lien, jointly, upon the buildingwhich they
may have constructed or repaired, or for which they may
have furnished materials, to the extent of the labor done, or
materials furnished, or both. And a subsequent statute extends the previous one so as to include in its provisions
ditches, flumes, or aqueducts, constructed to create hydraulic
power, or for mining purposes. It is provided, however,
"that no lien shall continue for a longer period than one
year after the work is done or materials furnished, unless
suit be brought in a proper court to enforce the same within
that time."
With this statute in force, the South Fork Canal Company
was desirous of having-for those purposes of mining to
which in California water-conduits contribute aid-a canal
or flume from a grand reservoir near Placerville to the south
fork of the American River, a distance of about twenty-five
miles. Beginning at the Placerville end, and making the
canal in the direction purposed, they had, after they had
made it about half way, a canal, which they used with a certain advantage. But by itself, this part-a part between
Placerville and Long Caion-had no supply of water for
more than two or three months in the year, and these were
winter months. Then certin mountain streams fed it.
Extended to the American River, the supply of water it was
APPEAL

Dec. 1867.]

DCANAL

COMPANY V.

GORDON.

Statement of the case.

expected would be both increased and be constant. The
Company accordingly, in March, 1853, entered into a contract with two persons, named Gordon & Kinyon, for an extension of the work from the point where the already mentioned part ended, to the river to which they thought that it
was desirable to bring it. This new part was divided into
sections designated as sections 17 to 25.
By the terms of the contract it was stipulated that the
work should be completed by July 1st, 1853. It was to be paid
for monthly, however, in a way specified, as tlie work progressed: it being provided at the same time, that if any
money due should not be paid when due, such amounats
should bear interest at current rates till paid.
Under the contract Gordon & Kinyon worked till the 714
day of JTune, 1853, at which time, on estimate taken according to the terms of the contract, they were entitled for work
done in May, to about $20,000. The money not being paid,
they on that day-the date is important-gave the company
notice by which, after stating that punctuality on the ompany's part in making its promised payments was indispensable to- their (Gordon & Rinyon's) being able to pay
the numerous men whom they had at work, and that they
thus acted in order to avoid embarrassment and discredit to
themselves, they declared the contract " annulled and at an
end," and they themselves "no longer parties to it." Expressing, however, in strong terms their obligations to the
officers *ofthe company for their personal kindness, expressing also the great interest which they themselves felt in the
"noble enterprise" which they had been directing, and "pride
in the contract from the very difficulty of its execution and
its importance relatively to the whole work," they added in
a form "strictly confidential," and, as they said, for the purpose of allowing the company to make other arrangements
without interrupting the work, that they would, for six days
longer from the date of the note (June 7th), continue the
work undertaken by them, at their own risk, and should " not
ask pay beyond this date unless the company choose from
their own sense of honor to pay." They added, that at the

•564

CANAL

COMPANY V.

GOIDON.

[Sup. Ct. -

Statement of the case.

end of the six days they would discontinue work unless a
new and secure financial arrangement should be made, one
either satisfactory to themselves or such as two of their own
directors named would pronounce to be proper.
Receiving no reply to this letter, they wrote the company on
'the evening of the 13th of June that no action having been
taken on the letter, nor answer given to it, and the six days
having elapsed at 4 P.m. of the then 13th of June, they withdrew the whole of the former note-as they said that it Was
competent for them to do (the offers having been voluntary)
-except that part of it which declared the contract broken, annulled, and ended.
On the next day Gordon informed the company in writing
that Kinyon was only interested in the contract to the extenc of one-third of the profits, and on the 21st of June, he
and Kinyon filed a notice of their claim of a lien on "the
works known as the South Fork Canal" for the amount which
they claimed. A day or two after the delivery to the company of the note of the 7th, the amount due on the May
estimate was tendered to Kinyon, who declined to accept it.
On the 28d of June, Gordon & Kinyon brought suit against
the company, for the purpose of enforcing their lien.
A few days afterwards, that is to say, on the 28th, the
directors, in their office at Placerville, Gordon being in the

'city of San Francisco, took from Kinyon a release, executed
in the name of Gordon & Kinyon, of all claims against the
company.

The consideration paid Kinyon for this release

was $2000 in money, and $83000 in the company's stock,
estimated at par. The certificates for this stock were made
out in the name of Kinyon's wife. The whole of this transaction was concealed from Gordon by Kinyon, who mimediately after it proceeded to San Francisco: whence by the
next steamer he fled the country.
. On the 12th of June of the following year (1854), Gordonhaving discontinued the suit already brought-filed a bill
in the court, setting forth the contract, and the facts of the
case, as above given, alleging that the contract had been
broken by the c,,mpany's failure to pay, that the work had

Dec. 1867.]

CANAL

COMPANY V.

GORDON

Argument for the appellant.

been done to the amount of $84,000, that the release was
fraudulent, and praying that the release might be disre.
garded, and the South Canal sold to satisfy his lien. An
interlocutory decree being made in his favor, and the matter
referred to a master, who reported $76,589 due (less $6200
credits) on the contract for work done on the canal, and
$16,250 for work preliminary to it, such as roads, saw-mills,
timber-slides, and such like things, which assisted in and
were indispensable to accomplish the main work. No exceptions being filed, the report was confirmed, and a decree
made for the amount reported, less the credits and less the
$16,250 for preliminary work, this being held by the court
not a lien under the statute. And the lien was decreed to extevd to the whole canal; and the whole was directed to be sold to
satisfy it.
As respected the relation of the two parts of the canal i
testimony in the case, it may be mentioned, stated that both
parts were "parts of the same work, and each necessary to
the other;" that to disconnect the two would lessen their
value greatly; the work being worth "very little-valueless"
-without the extension to the American River.
It was from this decree that the present appeal, one by the
company alone, came.
Mr. Wills, for the appellant, contendedI. That the contract in its nature was entire, and for the
performance of the whole work, and that the contractors
having abandoned it before completion, were not entitled to
recover even for what they actually did. Any delay in the
payment of the estimates by the company was to be compensated, according to an express provision of the contract,
by the payment of interest thereon from the time of such
non-payment until paid.
H. That the lien, if it ever attached, was lost, 1st, by the
release to the company by Kinyon, one of the co-contractors;
2dly, by the voluntary and needless dismissal of the first
action; and 8dly, by the failure of Gordon to institute the
present suit until after the lapse of more than one year from

CANAL CoMPANY

V.

GoRDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

June 7th, 1853, which failure (Mr. Wills argued, on the letter
of that date and of the subsequent 13th) was plainly evident; it being clear from these letters that the contract was
ended on the 7th of June, and that all work done afterwards,
if any was done, was done voluntarily. The 12th of June,
1854, when the suit below was brought, was therefore more
than a year after the work was finished, and the case thus
was not within the statute.
II. That the lien, if attaching at all, was to be restricted
to the part, branch, or division of the canal on which the
work was actually done, and for which the materials were
furnished, and not extended over the whole.
Mr. -Botts, contra.:
I. The first breach of the contract was made by the company's non-payment, and fully authorized the contractors to
abandon the work and to sue on a quantum meruit for the
work already done.* The provision with regard to the rate
of interest did not authorize, or relieve from, the breach.
On the contrary, it recognized the fact that a failure to pay
would constitute a breach, and provided a measure of damaiges for the breach other than that fixed by California statute, which, in the absence of agreement, is interest at 10 per
cent. The only effect, then, was to substitute the particular
for the general measure of damages.
II. The release executed by Kinyon was palpably fraudulent.
III. Was the lien proceeded on within the year? The year
ran not from the time when the company received notice of
Gordon's election to abandon the contract, because ft is not
on the contract that this action is based, but from the period
of the completion of the work, the value of which constitutes the complainant's claim. Tried by this test, the action was clearly within the time.
IV. The sale of the whole canal was rightly ordered.
When the part upon which labor is bestowed is in its nature
capable of being used separately and distinctly from the
* Cutter v. Powell, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 18, notes.

Dec. 1867.]

CANAL COMPANY V.

GORDON.

Opinion of the court.

other portions of the structure, the lien is properly restricted
to that part. But where the portion constructed by one
mechanic is an inseparable part of the whole, whenever the
use for which the thing is intended can in no degree be attained without the co-operation of all the parts, then, the
liens of all the contractors rest upon the whole structure,
and are not limited to their respective portions. We go
further. Although the structure may possibly be divided
without totally destroying the use for which it was intended,
if the sum of the values of the different parts would be
greatly less than the value of the whole, the lieu of each
contractor will rest upon the 'whole, and the structure will
not be divided. Or, if a particular part erected by a. particular contractor is comparatively worthless unless connected with the other parts, no division will be made. The
extension was part and parcel of the original plan, the object being to conduct the headwaters of the South Fork
to the "Placer"

mines at Placerville.

That the canal was

begun at the Placerville end, and that the winter streams or
arroyos were turned into the channel as the work progressed,
in no manner affected the integrity of the original design.
The canal is a single structure intended for a single purpose. Any division of it destroys the structure; and if it
were divided into the sections, or artificial divisions for the
purpose of contract, each part in the bands of a separate
owner would be comparatively useless. The value of each
lien would of necessity be impaired, if not destroyed. To
cut up the flume into sections and assign his pbrtion to each
contractor, would be to give some of them aqueducts which
had, and could have, no water to carry.
The decree, in short, was too favorable to the appellants.
It ought to have been in favor of Gordon for the entire sum
claimed.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in equity from the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California.

568

CANAL

COMPANY

v.

GORDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Gordon was the complainant, and the appellants were the
defendants in that court. The record is very voluminous,
but the questions presented for our determination are few
in number, and their proper solution is, we think, attended
with no serious difficulty.
We shall confine our opinion to the objections to the
decree, taken in the argument for the appellants. According to the rule of this court, the appellee can ask nothing
here but what the decree gave him. It is the appellants
who complain. The questions which we are to examine are
such as they present for our consideration. The position of
an appellee in this court is'simply defensive. It is only
where both parties appeal, that a case is open here for examination as it was in the court below.
The bill was filed to enforce a particular lien given by a
statute of California. The jurisdiction of the court rested
upon this basis, and could extend no further.
The case was referred to a master. He reported that
the defendant was indebted to the complainant in the sum
of $76,589.89, with interest from the 18th of June, 1853,

for work done upon the canal of the defendant, pursuant
to the contract out of which this litigation has arisen: and
in the further sum of $16,250.50, for what the master
terms "preliminary work," without which, he states, the
contract could not have been fulfilled. The latter work
consisted of the building of saw-mills, railroads, other
roads, an inclined plane, timber-slides, and other apparatus. The particulars are .given in a schedule annexed to
the report. He reported further that the defendant was
entitled to credits amounting in the aggregate to $6200.
According to the rules of the Circuit Court, the parties
were allowed a certain time within which to file exceptions, and failing to do so, the amounts found by the mas-ter were to be taken as conclusive. No exceptions were
filed by the appellants.
The court disallowed the amount found for the preliminary work, holding it not to be a lien. The amount of the
credits was deducted from the amount found to be due for

Dec. 1867.]

CANAL COMPANY V.

GORDON.

Opinion of the court.

the work done upon the canal, and a decree was rendered
for the balance, with interest.
The finding of the master is as conclusive here as it was
in the court below. There has been no controversy upon
that subject. It is not denied that the amount is correctif the complainant had not forfeited his right to any compensation by the violations of the contract alleged to have
been committed by Gordon & Kinyon. This part of the
case has been argued very fu]ly by the counsel on both sides.
We have looked carefully into the evidence. The result is,
that we are entirely satisfied with the report, and in this
respect with the decree. We think the fault of the rupture
lies wholly with the company. Gordon & Kinyon adhered
to the contract, and pursued the work longer than they were
bound to do. When they reti-red they were fully justified,
and had a clear equity to be paid a fair compensation for the
work they had performed.
The release given by Kinyon to the company cannot avail
them. It was a gross fraud. The evidence fixes upon it,
and sets in the strongest light, this character. It would be
a waste of time to discuss the subject. Our minds rest upon
the conclusion we have arrived at, undisturbed by a doubt.
Yet, the release is not without effect. It severed the connection of Kinyon with the contract, and extinguished any
claim which he might otherwise have had to be heard in
this litigation. He can have no interest in the result, whatever it may be. Complete justice can be done between the
parties before us, and the whole case disposed of without his
presence in the record. He is, therefore, not an indispensable party. The company are estopped to deny this proposition. His relation to the case is not unlike that of an
obligee in a title bond, to a suit upon it for specific performance by an assignee, to whom the obligee has parted with
all his interest in the bond. In that class of cases it is held
not to be indispensable that the assignor should be a party.
The court below held that Gordon had a lien upon the
entire length of the canal or flume, extending from the

CANAL COMPANY V. GORDON.

[Su p.C t.

Opinion of the court.

grand reservoir, near Placerville, to the South Fork of the
American River, a distance of about twenty-five miles.
When the contract with Gordon & Kinyon was entered into,
the flume was completed from the reservoir to Long Oafion,
a distance of eleven and two-third miles. Water flowing
through it was used by means of several outlets for mining
purposes. It was fed from sources other than the South
Fork. The contract with Gordon & Kinyon was for the extension of the canal, by the construction of sections "ffrom
section 17 to 25 inclusive." Their work commenced where
the existing canal ended, and reached to the South Fork of
the American River. The object was to make use of that
stream as an additional feeder, and thus to increase the
supply of water in the canal.
The two parts of the work-the one extending from the
reservoir to the caion, and the other thence to the South
Fork-were known respectively as the lower and the upper
section. The two sections were constructed by different
contractors, and, as already shown, at different times. The
former was completed and in use before the latter was begun.
In these respects they were distinct works. The points of
identity are continuity and a common object, use, and ownership.
The lien laws of Californiaprovide that all contractors,
laborers, and other persons "furnishing materials for, or
employed in, the construction of any bridge, ditch, flume,
or aqueduct, shall have a lien upon the structure," which
they may have constructed or repaired, or for which they
may have furnished materials, of any description, "to the
extent of the labor done, and materials furnished, or both."
It is further provided that the lien shall not bind the structure for a longer period than one year after the work is
done or materials furnished, unless suit be brought to enforce the lien within that time.
Several objections have been taken to the decree touching
the lien.
It is not denied that it became fixed by a regular compliance with the preliminary statutory conditions. But the

Dec. 1867.]

CANAL COMPANY v.

GORDON.

Opinion of the court.

appellants insist that it was extingulshed by the release
given to them by Kinyon. It would be a mockery of justice to allow an instrument so stained with turpitude to
have such an effect. The subject has already been sufficiently considered.
It is said the lien was waived by the dismissal of the prior
suit. The dismissal of that suit can obviously have no effect
upon the rights of the parties in this litigation.
It is insisted that this suit was not brought in time to feed
and preserve the lien. The evidence shows that the work
was continued by the contractors down to the 13th day of
June, 1858, inclusive. This bill was filed on the 12th day
of June, 1854. That was within the time prescribed by the
statute.
It is urged that the decree is erroneous in holding that
the lien extended the entire length of the canal instead of
limiting it to the upper section, where all the work was done.
Is this objection well taken ? Liens of this kind were unknown in the common law and equity jurisprudence both
of England and of this country. They were clearly defined
and regulated in the civil law.* Where they exist in this
country they are the creatures of local legislatiou. They are
governed in everything by the statutes under which they
arise. These statutes vary widely in different States. Hence
we have found no adjudication in any other State which
throws any light upon the question before us, and thee has
been none in California. We are, therefore, compelled to
meet the case as one of the first impression.
We have already shown that the upper and lower sections
were distinct works in several essential particulars, to which
we need not again advert. The lower one having been
finished and in use befbre the*upper one was contracted for,
if those having a lien upon the former, had insisted that it
became extended over the latter, as soon as the latter was
completed, no legal mind, we apprehend, could have doubted
that the claim could not be sustained. If it could, Gordon's
Domat,

1742, 1744.

CANAL

COMPANY V. GORDON.

LSup. Ct.

Field, Grier, and Miller. JJ., dissenting.

lien might have been rendered valueless. We think the
converse of this proposition applies with equal force. If a
lien upon the lower section could not have been extended
over the upper one, upon what principle can it be maintained
that Gordon's lien embraced the lower section? A lateral
feeder constructed and intersecting the main line after it
was completed, would certainlynot be subject to a previous
lien upon the main line, if such a lien existed. We can see
no substantial difference between that case, and the one before us. The upper section was only an additional feeder.
That it was an elongation of the main line, and not a lateral
work, does not affet the principle involved. The controlling
circumstances and the object in both cases would be the
same.
We think the language of the statute rightly interpreted
is decisive.
The lien is given to contractors and laborers upon the
ditch or flume "which they may have constructed or repaired, . . . to the extent of the labor done and materials
furnished." The work of Gordon was all done upon the
upper section. He had nothing to do with the lower section.
So far as he was concerned, and for all the purposes of this
litigation, they were distinct and independent works. A
different principle would produce confusion, and lead toserious evils. We have no difficulty in coming to the conclusion that the decree in this particular is erroneous.
It is, therefore, REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the
court below with instructions to enter a decree
IN

CONFORMITY

WITH THIS OPINION.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting. I dissent from so much
of the opinion and decision as limits the lien of the contractor to that portion of the canal which was constructed
by him. I think the lien extends to the entire canal, as
much so as a lien for work upon a wing of a house extends to
t.he entire building.
MILJLER and GRIER, JJ., concurred with Field, J.

