518

SAMIL ,V. SA.ME.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of~the case.

SAME V. SAME.
The ease of BRiggs v. Johnson Cunty (supra,166) affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois: a, case submitted by Mr. Howell, for the plaintiff in
error, and by Messrs. Strong and Craig,contra:
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case and deliveeed the
opinion of the court.
Amended information of the relator states that the corporation defendants, in pursuance of the authority of an act
of the General Assembly of the State, issued one hundred
corporate bonds, each for the sum of one thousand dollars,
redeemable in twenty years from date, with eight per cent.
interest, payable semi-annually. Interest coupons were attached to the bonds, and by their terms they were payable
to bearer. Statement of the relator is, that he became the
holder of a large number of the bonds with the coupons
attached in the ordinary course of business, before their
maturity, and for a valuable consideration.
By the statute of the State and the ordinances of the city,
the proper officers of the city were required to levy and collect, in addition to the other taxes, an annual tax upon all
property within the corporate limits of the city, subject to
municipal taxation, to pay the bonds and coupons as the
same should become due. Defendants neglected to pay the
coupons as the interest became payable, and the relator
brought suit against them in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa; but the suit, iendente lite,
was transferred to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, because the judges of the court for the
former district were interested in the matters in controversy.
Tudgment was rendered for the relator, October 19th, 1864,
in the latter district, for the sum of five thousand four hundred and twenty-seven dollars and fifty cents damages, being
the interest due on one hundred and eight coupons held by
the relator,
Authority to issue the bonds was conferred by the act

Dec. 1867.]

SAME V. SAME.
Opinion of the court.

amending the charter of the city, passed January 22d, 1853,
and the ordinance of the city directing their issue bears date
February 5th, 1856, and is fully set forth in the record.
Recovery of the judgment, however, did not avail the relator, as the defendants still refused to pay, and they had no
corporate property liable to seizure on execution; and being
without any other remedy, he applied to the Circuit Court
in which the judgment was rendered for a mandamus, commanding the proper authorities of the city, at their next
meeting, to levy a sufficient tax to pay the judgment, costs,
and interest. Order for the alternative writ was entered
May 15th, 1865, and it was made returnable on the first
Monday of July, in the same year.
Defendants admit in their answer that the bonds with
coupons annexed were issued as alleged; and they also
admit the judgment, and that the relator made demand that
they should levy and collect a tax Tor the payment of the
sum recovered, but allege that they were perpetually enjoined, on the nineteenth day of September, 1853, from
levying or collecting any tax for the payment of the principal or interest of those bonds, and that they are utterly
unable to obey the commands of the alternative writ.
Reference is made to that part of the answer only which
is material in this investigation. Relator demurred to the
entire answer, and the court sustained the demurrer to the
defence set up, that the bonds and coupons were issued
without authority, and that they were null and void, but
overruled it as to the defence that the proper officers of the
city had been enjoined from levying and collecting any tax
to pay the judgment. Causes of demurrer shown in respect
to that defence were, that the State court could not oust the
Circuit Court of jurisdiction to enforce its own judgments,
and that the decree of the State court could not bar him
from the right to use the process of the Circuit Court to
collect his judgment, as he was not a party to'those proceedings. Ruling of the Circuit Court, however, was otherwise,
and the relator excepted and removed the cause into this
court by writ of error.

520

SAME v. SAME.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Sole defence relied on in this court is, that the defendants
have been absolutely and perpetually enjoined from levying
and collecting the tax by the decree of the State court, and
the defendants admit that the only question is, whether the
facts set forth in that part of their return to the alternative
writ constitute a good defence to the petition and information of the relator. They also admit that the writ of mandamus in such a case is not a prerogative writ, and we may
add that it is settled law in this court that it is not even a
new suit, but is a writ in aid of jurisdiction which has previously attached, and that under such circumstances it becomes the proper substitute for an execution to enforce the
judgment. Viewed in that light, the granting of the writ
is no hardship upon the defendants, as they are exposed to
rio injustice.. Alleged hardship is imaginary, and the argument deduced from that suggestion falls to the ground as
soon as it is shown that ihe injunction of the State 'court is
inoperative to defeat the force and effect of Federal process.
Grant that an injunction issued by a State court may have
that effect, and the judicial powers confided to the Supreme
Court, and such inferior courts as Congress may from time
to time ordain and establish, are of no value, as they can
never execute their judgments without the consent of the
State courts. Fears that the officers of the corporation may
be exposed to imprisonment or actions of trespass, without
adequate remedy or redress, are unfounded and groundless.
Careful consideration was given to that point in the case of
Riggs v. Johnson County, decided at the present term, and we
refer to the opinion in that case as furnishing a satisfactory
answer to those suggestions. Suffice it to say, that we adhere
to the rule that the injunction issued by a State court is
inoperative to control, or in any manner to affect process or
proceeding in the Circuit Courts of the United States.

Judgment

REVERSED

and the cause remanded, with in-

structions to sustain the demurrer of the relator, and for
further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of the
court.
Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in this case.

