Dec. 1867.]

WILSON

V.

WALL.

Statement of the case.

little reason to anticipate one as the other. The law regards
the security, after it is altered, as an entire forgery with respect to the parties who have not consented, and so far as
they are concerned, deals with it accordingly.*
The ins-ruction was correct and the
JUDGAMNT IS AFFIRMED.

WILSON V. WALL.
1. Semble, that under the treaty of the United States with the Choctaws, in
1830, by which the United States agreed that each Choctaw head of a
family desirous to remain and become a citizen, &c., should be entitled to
one section of land; "1and in like manner shall beentitled to one-half that
quantityfor each unmarried child which is living with him over ten
years of age, and a quarter section to such child as may be under ten
years of age, to adjoin the location qf the parent;" no trust was meant to
be created in favor of the children. They were named only as measuring the quantity of land that should be assigned to the head of the
family.
2. However this may be, if under the assumption that no trust was meant
to be created, the United States have issued under the treaty a patent to
a Choctaw head of a family, individually and in fee simple for all the
sections, a purchaser from him bona fide and for value will not be
affected with the trust, even though he knew that his vendor was a Choctaw head of a family, and in a general way that he had the land in virtue of the treaty.
3. Where it is sought to affect a bonafide purchaser for value with constructive notice, the question is not whether he had the means of obtaining,
and might by prudent caution have obtained the knowledge in question,
but whether his not obtaining it was an act of gross or culpable negligence.

to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
By the fourteenth article of a treaty made in 1830, between
the Choctaw Indians and the United States, by which the
ERROR

* Goodman v. Eastman, 4 New Hampshire, 456; Waterman v.Vose, 43
Maine, 504 ; Outhwaite v. Luntley, 4 Campbell, 180; Bank of the United
States v. Boone, 3 Yates, 391 ; Uitchell v. Ringgold, 3 Harris & Johnson,
159; Stephens v. Graham, 7 Sergeant & Rawle, 509; Miller v. Gilleland, t9
-Pennsylvania State, 119; Hleffner v. Wenrich, 32 Id 423 ; Stout v. Cloud, 5
Little, 207; Lisle v. Rogers, 18 B. Monroe, 529.

WILSON V. WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Choctaws ceded their territories to the United States, it was
thus stipulated:
"Each Choctaw head of a family being desirous to remain
and become a citizen of the States, shall be permitted to do so
by signifying his intention to the agents, &c., and thereupon be
entitled to a reservation of one section of six hundred and Ibrty
acres of land, to be bounded by sectional lines, and in like manner, shall be entitled to one-half that quantity for each unmarried child, which is living with him, over ten years of ago; and
a quarter section to such child as may be under ten years of ago,
to adjoin the location of the parent."
Hall was such a head of a family, and at the .date of the
treaty had living with him seven children, of whom three
were over and four under ten years of age. This gave one
section as respected himself, and two and a half sections as
respected his children. Having reported to the agent of the
United States in making his claim, the number and ages of
his children, but not their names, he secured a reservation
of three and a half sections, including the section on which
he lived. In 1841, a patent issued to him directly for the
whole three and a half sections; the instrument reciting that
these had been "located in favor of the said William Hall
as his reserve." The words of grant in the patent "were to
him and to his heirs," with a'habendum, "to his or their heirs
and assignsforever."
In 1836, anticipating the issue of the patent, he sold the
whole three and a half sections tor $750, which was paid
him, to one Wilson, who took possession and made valuable improvements on the land.
In April, 1849, Hall himself being dead, his children, now
grown up, filed a bill in the Chancery Court of Alabama,
against Wilson, to recover the two and a half sections, which
were granted as respected them. Wilson admitted in his
answer, knowledge that Hall was a Choctaw head of a
family entitled to a reservation, but denied knowledge of
what article of the treaty he claimed under.
It was conceded that in ascertaining to whom the patents

Dec. 1867.]

WILSON V. WALL.
Statement of the case.

should issue for the lands under the treaty in question, it
was not customary to take down or return to the government
the names of children of heads of fhmilies, but that in executing the treaty, the agent returned the names of heads of
families, with the number and ages of their children; and
that in issuing the grants in fee simple, it had been customary to issue them in the form of the patent to Hall, until the
year 1842. In that year an act was passed by Congress,*
directing that as to lands located for Choctaw children, the
patent should issue to such "Indian child if living," and if
not living, to his heirs and representatives. A statute had
previously passed,t referring to article fourteenth of the
treaty, and appointing commissioners with full power to examine and ascertain the names of persons who had fulfilled
the conditions of settlement so as to entitle them to patents,
and to ascertain the quantity for each child "according to the

1ijnitations contained in said article."
It also seemed that from the date of the treaty down to
the act of 1842, the construction of the Executive Department had been, that no provision was made for children as
independent beneficiaries, but that they were named as measuring the quantity of land that should be assigned to the
head of the family. At least, referring to these provisions,
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs had said to the AttorneyGeneral in 1842:
"These words were construed by Mr. Secretary Cass, to give
to the parent the title to the halves and quarters of a section
stipulated for, in right of the children. This construction has
been the uniform one of the department in executing the treaty,
and patents have issued accordingly, of the correctness of which
no doubt has been entertained heretofore. The register of those
that applied to the agent under the article, contained the names
of the heads of families only, which would seem to show that
the children were not entitled in the opinion of the Indians
themselves who furnished the materials for the register."

* 5 Stat. at Large, 515.

t- 1.

180.

86

WILSON V.

WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

View of the court below.

On this case the questions were,
1. Whether, on a true construction of this fourteenth arti.
cle of the treaty, flall himself had held the two and a half
sections adjoining the one on which he lived in trust for his
children ?
2. Whether, if he had himself held the sections in trust,
Wilson, a bona fide purchaser for value, was affected with
notice of that trust, the same not having been set forth on
the face of the patent to lall ?
The Supreme Court of Alabama, where the suit finally
went in that State, was of the affirmative opinion on both
points.*
On the first question, that court's view was,-although a
grant to one person for another, ordinarily created a trust,that here the expression "for each unmarried child" might
be admitted, if by itself, to be equivocal. But the words immediately following--" and a quarter section to such child
as may be under ten "-the court thought shed light on the
previous obscure expression, and sufficiently indicated the
sense in which it was used. This was made more plain, the
court considered, by the direction that the lands given in
respect of the children should "adjoin the location of the
parent." What was meant by the location of the parent?
Obviously the section on which the parent's "improvement" was situated, where he lived, and which was reserved to him in absolute right. Lands which adjoined a
parent's could hardly be deemed lands of the parent himself.
The construction given to the article by the Executive Department of the government, and the form in which the
patents were issued could not, the court conceived, change
the meaning of the words of the treaty, nor control any
court in interpreting them. There was therefore a trust for
the children.
On the second question, the Supreme Court of Alabama
thought that as Wilson knew when he made his purchase
that Hall was "the Choctaw head of a family" and that
* See 84 Alabama, 288.

Dec. 1867.]

WILSON

). WALL.

Opinion of the court.

his right arose under the treaty, he ought, as a prudent man,
to have inquired further. Lord Mansfield's language in
Kcceh v. .Hall,* was that "whoever wants to be secure should
inquire after and examine the title deeds." Had Wilson
made an examination of the treaty it would have informed
him,-so the court considered,-that the right of Hall was
confined to the single section on which his improvement was
situated, and that all the rest of the land was for his children. He had failed to make an inquiry which it was his.
duty to make; and a court of equity would accordingly treat
him as if he had actual notice.
Judgment having gone therefore in favor of the children,
the case was now for review, here, where it was fully argued
by Mr. P. Phillipsforthe appellants, in opposition to the view
enforced by the State court of Alabama in its opinion as
above presented. .No opposile eounsel appeared.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
When the United States acquired and took possession of
the Floridas under the Louisiana treaty, the tieaties which
had been made with the Indian tribes remained in force over
all the ceded territories, as the laws which regulate the relations with all the Indians who were parties to them. They
were binding on the United States as the fundamental laws
of Indian right, acknowledged by royal orders and municipal regulations. By these, the Indian right was not merely
of possession, but that of alienation.
The parties to this contract may justly be presumed to
have had in view the previous custom and usages with regard
to grants to persons "desirous to become citizens." The
treaty suggests that they are "a people in a state of rapid
advancement in education and refinement." But it does not
follow that they were acquainted with the doctrine of trusts.
With them lauds were either held in common by the whole
nation or tribe, and the families were its fractions or portions.
The head of the faumily could dispose of the property of the
* Douglas, 22

WILSON V. WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

family as the heads of the tribe or nation could that of the
nation.
Under the Spanish and French dominions, grants of land
were always made to individuals in proportion to the number of persons composing the family. Thus, in Frique v.
Hopkins,* the court said as follows:
"By the' regulations of the Spamsn government, if the
individual who applied for land was unmarried, a certain
quantity was given to him; if he had a wife this quantity
was increased, and if he had children an additional number
of acres were conceded. Now, if the circumstance of his
being married made the thing given become the property of
both husband and wife, we must, on the same principle, hold
that where children were the moving cause, they too should
be considered as owners in common of the land conceded.
That such was the effect of /he doree having a family, was never
even suspected. It certainly is u;supportedby law. Many donations are made in which the donee's having a wife and
being burdened with a large family is a great consideration
for the beneficence of the donor, but this motive in him does
not prevent the person to whom the gift is made from being
considered its owner, nor prevent the thing from descending
to his heirs."
We can hardly expect the Indians to be very profound on
the subject of adverbs or prepositions, and the agents of the
government do not seem to have exhibited much greater
knowledge of the proprieties of grammar, or they would not
have left this section of the treaty capable of misconstruction or doubt when it was so easy to avoid it. The words
of this 14th section of the treaty were construed by Mr.
Secretary Cass, to give to the parent the title to the whole.
This construction had been the unifbrm one of the department in executing the treaty, and patents were issued accordingly, of the correctness of which no doubt was entertained. The register of those that applied to the agent under the article, contained the names of the heads of families
4 Martin, 212.

Dec. 1867.]

WILSON V. WALL.

Opinion of the court.

only, which would seem to show the Indian construction of
the contract or treaty. Accordingly, on the £9th of June,
1841, a patent was granted to William Hall, vot for himself
and his children-but to him and his heirs. At this time
the Secretary had no means of ascertaining the names of the
children so that separate patents might be given them in
case of a different construction given to the treaty. In all
others of the numerous treaties made with the Indians (more
of them made by Governor Cass than by any other person),
where lands were reserved, or agreed to be granted to any
Indian, the name of the grantee and quantity to be given
were carefully stated in the treaty.
As this section of the treaty was capable of a different
construction, Congress, on the 23d of August, 1842, in order
to save something for the children from the folly or incapacity of the parent, appointed commissioners with full power
to examine and ascertain the names of the parties who had
fulfilled the conditions of settlement to entitle them to patents for their land, and ascertain the quantity for each child,
"according to the limitations contained in said article."
Now, while it is freely conceded that this construction
given to the treaty should form a rule for the subsequent
conduct of the department, it cannot affect titles before
given by the government, nor does it pretend to do so.
Congress has no constifutional power to settle the rights
under treaties except in cases purely political. The construction of them is the peculiar province of the judiciary,
when a case shall arise between individuals. The legislature may prescribe to the executive how any mere administrative act shall be performed, and such was the only aim
and purpose of this act.
In the Cherokee treaty, where a grant of 640 acres was
given to persons "willing to become citizens," a life estate
only was given to the settler, with reversion to his children.
This treaty makes no such provision for children. The construction given by the representatives of both parties to the
treaty, and the grants issued under it, were not revoked, nor
could they be, by mere legislative act, founded on a different

WILSON V. WALL.

I

[Sup. C.

Opinion of the court.

construction of a doubtful article of the treaty. The treaty
only describes the person who is contingently entitled to the
reservation. He must be a Choctaw, and a head of a family, and desirous not only to remain, but must signify to the
agent his intention to do so. These are conditions precedent,
on the performance of which he shall, "th1ereupon be entitled
to a reservation of 640 acres, and in, like manner shall be entitled to half that quantity for each unmarried child which is
living with him over ten years, and a quarter section to such
child as may be under ten years," and if they reside upon
the land, intending to become citizens forfi'e years, &c., "a
grant in fee-simple shall issue," &c. The father alone could
fulfil the conditions; he would not be entitled to the additional land unless for a child that "was living with him."
The treaty did not operate as a grant, and a patent was necessary to the person who alone could perform the conditions.
We do not consider it necessary to vindicate the conclusion to which we have arrived in this case, by further argument on the grammatical construction of this section of the
treaty. Assume that the construction put on the treaty by
the court below may possibly be correct. What then are
the facts of the case? The complainants below have ap..
plied to a court of chancery, which should be a court of conscience, to vacate the title of a bonafide purchaser, who purchased and paid his money and eipended a life's labor on
land granted by patent from the United States, conveying a
fee-simple estate, which was issued by the officers of the
government without intention of imposing any trust on the
grantee, or limiting it on the face of the deed.
It is contended that the purchaser is affected with notice
of the terms of the treaty referred to in his patent.
If there be any trust for children it must be a constructive trust, which is negatived by the express terms of the
grant. How can a chancellor build up by the words for and
to-words of equivocal import and doubtful constructionan equitable title in the children? The fact is clear .that
such was not the construction under which the grantor gave
the deed or the grantee accepted it. A chancellor will not

Dec. 1867.]

THE WATCHFUL.

91

Statement of the case.

be astute to charge a constructive trust upon one who has
acted honestly and paid a full and fair consideration without
notice or knowledge. On this point we need only to refer
to Sugden on Vendors,* where he says: "In Ware v. Lord
1 qnmio the Lord Chancellor Cranworth expressed his entire
concurrence in what, on many occasions of late Vears, had
fallen from judges of great eminence on the subject of constructive notice, namely, that it was highly inexpedient for
courts of equity to extend the doctrine. When a person
has not actual notice he ought not to be treated as if he had
notice unless the circumstances are such as enable the court
to say, not only that he might have acquired, but also that he
ought to have acquired it but for his gross negligence in the
conduct of the business in question. The question then,
when it is sought to afect a purchaser with constructive notice, is not whether he had the means of obtaining and
might by prudent caution have obtained the knowledge in
question, but whether not obtaining was an act of gross or
culpable negligence."
The application of these principles of equity to the present case is too apparent to need further remark.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

THE WATcHrUL.
1. Alibel case, charging the vessel and cargo to be prize of war, dismissed
because no case of priie was made out by the testimony.
2. But because the record disclosed strong prima facie evidence of a viola..
tian of the laws of navigation, and probably of our revenue laws also,
the case was remanded, with leave to file a new libel according to these
facts.

APPEAL from

the District Court for the Eastern District

of Louisiana.
In that court the schooner Watchful and cargo had been
libelled as prize of war, and a decree rendered dismissing
the libel, and restoring the property to the claimant.
*Page

622.

