MoCL;ANE V. BOON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

ade was intended is the fact that the vessel, when captured,
was out of the most direct regular course to New Orleans,
and in a part of the gulf where she would very probably
have been had her real destination been Galveston. But
we think this is sufficiently accounted for by the weather,
and by the probability that such a vessel, really bound for
New Orleans, would prefer to keep at no greater distance
from the shore than the blockade would require, rather than
take the more direct course across the gulf.
It was stated in the argument that the cargo of the vessel
would not command at New Orleans so good a price as at
Vera Cruz; and this circumstance, if proved, would be entitled to great weight. But there is no evidence of that sort
in the record.
On the whole, therefore, we think that the decree of the
District Court was correct, and shall order that it be
AFFIRMED.

MCLANE V.

BOON.

1. Where, pending a writ of error to this court, subsequently dismissed, the
defendant in error dies and the other side wishes to take a new writ,
application should, be made to the court below for the purpose of reviving the suit in the name of the representatives of the deceased. A
writ of error can then regularly issue. A motion iirthis court to revive
the writ by suggesting the death and substituting the representatives
as parties to the record is not regular.
2. If the court below should refuse an application such as that above contemplated, in the circumstances mentioned, then the writ may, from
necessity, issue in the name of the representatives, in the usual way,
serving on them the citation to appear at the next term.

ERROR to the Su!reme Court of the State of Oregon.
On motion. Boon filed a bill in a State court of Oregon
against McClane, to enjoin him from prosecuting an action
at law to recover the possession of a lot of land, for which
a patent had been issued to McClane by the United States,
and praying that the same might be held by McClane as
truitee for the benefit of him, Boon. The court dismissed

Dec. 1867.]

MOCLANE v. BooN.

24r

Opinion of the court.

the bill. On an appeal to the Supreme Court, that court
reversed the decree, and rendered one for the plaintiff. McClane, the defendant, sued out a writ of error from this
court to the Supreme Court of Oregon, returnable December Term, 1863, which was dismissed at the December Term,
1866.
A second writ of error was issued July 29th, 1867, returnable at the next term of the Supreme Court of the
United States. On the 15th June, 1864, pending the first
writ of error, Boon, the defendant in error, died.
Mr. Lander now made a motion, having for its object to
revive the writ of error, by suggesting the death of Boon,
and substituting the widow and heirs-at-law as parties to the
record.
The parties described in the present writ of error, it will
be observed, were the parties to the original suit, and the
writ, therefore, was issued in the name of a dead man.
Mr. Lander, in support of his motion, ai'gued, that being a
chancery suit, the death of the plaintiff had not abated but
only suspended it;* that the writ of error was a continuation of the original litigation ;t that this being so, the plaintiff in error had made the suggestion in the only court open
to him.
Mr. Williams, contra: That the motion was against proper
practice; that the remedy, if any, was in the court below.
Mr. Justice NELSONT delivered the opinion of the court.
We think the counsel for the plaintiff in error has mistaken the proper practice under the peculiar circumstances
of the case. Application should have been made to the
court below for the purpose of reviving the suit in the name
of the widow and heirs of the deceased; and then a writ of
error could have regularly issued.
If the court should refuse, then it would become neces.
Clarke v. Mathewson, 12 Peters, 168.
t Nations v. Johnson, 24 Howard, 195, 204.

246

AGRICULTURAL COMPANY V. PIERCE COUNTY.

[SUp. Ct

Statement of the case.

sary to issue it in the name of these representatives,, in the
usual way, serving on them the citation to appear at the
next term.
The case of Kellogg et al. v. Forsyth,* is an authority for
issuing the writ in the name of the widow and heirs, and,
also, for the appearance of these parties on the citation, and
make objections to these proceedings if they see fit.
As the case now stands, the parties to the suit described
in the writ, and in whose names it was issued, are McClane,
plaintiff in error, and Boon, defendant, deceased, and the
citation is issued and served on parties, not parties to the
record, which, of itself, is error.t
WRIT OF ERROR DISMISSED.

AGRICULTURAL COMPANY V. PIEROE COUNTY.
A writ of error made returnable to a day different from the return day fixed
by statute as the day on which the term commences, dismissed.

to the Supreme Court of Washington Territory.
The writ of error bore date January 20th, 1862. It was
on its face made returnable on the second Monday of December next after its date, when it should have been the
first Monday of that month, which is by law the day on
which the terms of this court commence each year.
ERROR

For this cause (Mr. Justice MILLER, announcing the
order), the writ of error was dismissed under the authority
of the cases of Carrollv. .Dorsey,t Insurance Company v. Jiordecai,ยง and Porterv. Foley,I heretofore decided by this court.
Messrs. Lander and Carlisle,forthe plaintiff in error;no opposite counsel appearing nor having entered their appearance of
record.
*

24 Howard, 186.

$ 20 Howard, 204.

t Davenport v. Fletcher, 16 Id. 142.
21 Id. 195.
11Id. 393.

