Dec. 1867.]

THE MAYOR

V. COOPER.

247

Statement of the case.

THE MAYOR V.

COOPER.

1. Where a court has no jurisdiction of a case, it cannot award costs, or
order execution for them to issue.
2. Where a party removes under a statute of the United States from a State
court to the Circuit Court of the United States a case depending in point
of merits on the right construction of such statute, the Circuit Court
cannot dismiss and remand the case, upon motion, on the ground that
it has no jurisdiction, because the statute is unconstitutional and void.
3. The validity of the defence which such statute may authorize to be made
is a distinct subject, and to be passed on by the court when in due form
before it.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee; the case being thus:
The Constitution of the United States ordains, that "the
judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one
Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as Congress may
from time to time ordain and establish," and that this power
"shall extend to all cases, in lakv and equity, arising under
this Constitution and the laws of the United States."
With this provision in force as fundamental, Congress,
having in 1789 established Circuit Courts, inferior to the
Supreme Court, passed, during the late rebellion, to wit,
March 3d, 1863, "An act in relation to habeas corpus and
regulating judicial proceedings in certain cases," and on the
11th May, 1866, another amendatory of it.
The statutes provided, in respect to all acts done or omitted to be done, "under any law of Congress," or "by virtue
of any order, written or verbal, general or special, issued by
the President or Secretary of War, or any military officer
of the United States holding command" of the place where
such act or omission occurred, that such authority should be
a defence in all courts for all concerned, to any civil action
or criminal prosecution therefor.
And provided further for the removal, in a manner prescribed, of all such cases, before or after final judgment,
from the State couAs to the Circuit Courts of the United
States.

THE MAYOR V. COOPER.

I,.

ESup. Ct

Statement of the case.

In this state of law, constitutional and statutory, Cooper
sued the mayor and aldermen of Nashville, and with them
one Smith, in the Circuit Court of Davidson County, in that
State; his declaration alleging trespasses upon real estate,
and the asportation and conversion of chattels. The mayer
and aldermen pleaded the general issue.
Both parties defendant presented petitions verified by
affidavit to the court in which the suitwas pending, praying for a removal, under the statutes of 1863 and 1866 just
named, of the causes to the Circuit Court of the United
States for that district.
The petition of Smith set forth that the trespasses complained of, if committed, were committed during the rebellion by authority of the President of the United States,
under an order issued by General G. H. Thomas, an officer
of the United States, holding command of the district within
which the trespasses are alleged to have occurred, which
order was approved by Andrew Johnson, then an officer of
the United States, and the military governor of the State of
Tennessee.
That of the mayor and aldermen alleged, that at the time
of the commission of the alleged trespasses their co-defendant
Smith was the acting mayor of Nashville, and that he and
the persons acting with him as aldermen and councilmen
held their positions as mayor, aldermen, and councilmen as
the appointees and agents of the government of the United
States, appointed under the authority of the President of the
United States, by the then military governor of Tennessee,
to serve the lawful military purposes of the said President
of the United States, as the commander-in-chief of the forces
thereof, in suppression of the rebellion, and that all the acts
complained of, if done, were done under the authority and
for the benefit of the United States and the army thereof;
and that the said acting mavor and aldermen, at the time
when the trespasses are alleged to have been committed, had
received military orders from the said military governor,
under the authority of the Secretary of*War of the United
States, and also orders from the military officers of the United

Dec. 1867.]

THE MAYOR V. COOPER.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

States having command of the district, to do all the things
which were done, or are alleged to have been done by the
defendants.
The cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States according to the prayer of the defendants.
A motion was made there to dismiss the suit upon the ground
that the court had no jurisdiction of the cause. No allegation,
apparently, was made against the regularity in point of form
of the proceedings by which the case had been removed
from the State court, or that the case was not within the acts
of Congress of 1863 and 1866. The motion to dismiss was
sustained by the court. The court held that the defence
had "failed to show that they are entitled to have this cause removed from the Circuit Court of Davidson County, Tennessee, to this court for hearing under the provisions of the act
of Congress of March 3d, 1863, and the act amendatory
thereof, passed May 11th, 1866, and that the said acts of Congress, so far as they authorize and provide for the removal
of causes from the State to the Federal courts in cases where
the petitioner shall show that the acts complained of were
done under the order of the President or Secretary of War,
or of a military commander, or otherwise than under an act
of Congress, are unconstitutionaland void." It was accordingly
ordered and adjudged "that said cause be dismissed and renmanded to the Circuit Court of Davidson County, and that the
defendants . . . pay all the costs incurred in this court,for which
execution, may issue."
This writ of error was prosecuted to reverse thatj udgment.
31r. R. L. Caruthers, by brief, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the matter having arisen on motion to dismiss,
presented a question of jurisdiction purely; that at such a
stage of the case, no question could be raised as to the validity of the defence which the statutes authorized to be set up;
that even if the defence authorized was invalid and unconstitutional, still that under the provisions of the Constitution
which extended the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court-an
"inferior court," undoubtedly ordained and established by

250

THE MAYOR V.

COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Congress-to all cases in law and equity, arising under the
laws of the United States, that court was bound to entertain
and in some way adjudge it; that the case should therefore
be remaided.
.Aro opposing counsel appeared; nor was any copy of the
opinion of the court below contained in the record.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivere 4 the opinion of the court.
It does not appear that any question was raised in the
court below as to the regularity of the proceedings by which
the case was removed from the Circuit Court of the State to
the Circuit Court of the United States. Ior does it appear to
have been denied that the acts of Congress referred to embraced the case, and if valid, gave the right to have the transfer made. We are therefore relieved frori the necessity of
considering those subjects. We have found nothing in the
record, and nothing in the statutes which, as we think, authorizes a doubt or objection as to either point.
The judgment of the court proceeded entirely upon the
ground of the constitutional invalidity of the provisions in
the actsreferred to, which relate to the subject.
We have not bad an opportunity to see the opinion of the
court, and no argument has been submitted to us in behalf
of the defendant in error. We are therefore at a loss to
imagine what train of reasoning conducted the learned judge
to the conclusion announced in the order, and hence are
constrained to examine the subject without reference to the
particular views which controlled the decision.
Before adverting to the constitutional question, there is
another feature of the order which calls for remark. The
court held that it had no jurisdiction whatever of the case,
and yet gave a judgment for the costs of the motion, and
ordered that an execution should issue to collect them. This
was clearly erroneous. If there were no jurisdiction, there
was no power to do anything but to strike the case from the
docket. In that view of the subject the matter was as much
corani nonjudice as anything else could be, and the award of

Dec. 1867.]

THE MAYOR

V. COOPEt.

251

Opinion of the court.

costs and execution was consequently void. Such was the
necessary result of the conclusions of the court.
This court has the power to declare an act of Congress to
be repugnant to the Constitution, and therefore invalid.
But the duty is one of great delicacy, and only to be performed where the repugnancy is clear, and the conflict irreconcilable. Every doubt is to be resolved in favor of the
constitutionality of the law.
The question before us relates to the 4th and 5th sections
of the statute of 1863, and the 1st, 3d, 4th, and 5th sections
of the statute of 1866.
They provide, in respect to the acts specified, and all acts
done or omitted to be done, "under any law of Congress,"
or "by virtue of any order, written or verbal, general or
special, issued by the President or Secretary of War, or any
military officer of the United States holding command" of
the place where such act or omission occurred, that such
authority shall be a defence in all courts for all concerned,
to any civil action or criminal prosecution for the acts or
omissions complained of.
They provide further for the removal, in the manner prescribed, of all such cases, before or after final judgment,
from the State courts to the Circuit Courts of the United
States.
The Constitution provides, that "the judicial power of
the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court,
and in' such inferior courts as Congress may friom time to"
time ordain and establish," and that this power "shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Constitution and the laws of the United States." The other
particulars of the grant of power it is not necessary in this
case to consider.
The power here under consideration is given in general
terms. No limitation is imposed. The broadest language
is used. "All 2ases" so arising are embraced. None are
excluded. How jurisdiction shall be acquired by the inferior
courts, whether it shall be original or appellate, or original
in part and appellate in part, and the manner of procedure

TnL

M AYOR V.

COOPER.

[S ap. Or.

Opinion of the court.

in its exercise after it has been acquired, are not prescribed.
The Constitution is silent upon those subjects. They are
remitted without check or limitation to the wisdom of the
legislature.
The sixth article declares that "the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, which shall be made in pursuance
thereof," . . . " shall be the supreme law of the land." The
grant of the judicial power contains no such qualification.
It is declared to extend "to all cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States," without distinction or
discrimination as to the latter; nor is there any restriction
as to the tribunals-State or Federal-in which they may
arise. Wherever found, they are within the reach of this
authority, and subject, for its exercise, to the law-making
power of the nation.
As regards all courts of the United States inferior to this
tribunal, two things are necessary to create jurisdiction,
whether original or appellate. The Constitution must have
given to the court the capacity to take it, and an act of Congress must have supplied it. Their concurrence is necessary
to vest it. It is the duty of Congress to act for that purpose
up to the limits of the granted power. They may fall short
of it, but cannot exceed it. To the extent that such action
is not taken, the power lies dormant. It can be brought
into activity in no other way. Jurisdiction, original or appellate, alike comprehensive in either case, may be given.
The constitutional boundary line of both is the same. Every
variety and form of appellate jurisdiction within the sphere
of the power, extending as well to the courts of the States as
to those of the nation, is permitted. There is no distinction
in this respect between civil and criminal causes. Both are
withiu its scope. Nor is it any objection that questions are
involved which are not all of a Federal character. If one
of the latter exist, if there be a single such ingredient in the
mass, it is sufficient. That element is decisive upon the
subject of jurisdiction. "A case in law or equity consists
of the right of the one party as well as the other, and may
be truly said to arise under the Constitution or a law of the

Dec. 1867.]

THE MAYOR V. COOPER.
Opinion of the court.

United States whenever its correct decision depends upon
the right construction of either."
The rule applies with equal force where the plaintiffclaims
a right, and where the defendant ckLims protection, by virtue
of one or the other.*
It is the right and the duty of the national governnrent
to have its Constitution and laws interpreted and applied by
its own judicial tribunals. In cases arising under them,
properly brought before it, this court is the final arbiter. The
decisions of the courts of the United States within their sphere
of action, are as conclusive as the laws of Congress made in
pursuance of the Constitution. This is essential to the peace
of the nation, and to the vigor and efficiency of the government. A different principle would lead to the most mischievous consequences. The courts of the several States
might determine the same questions in different ways. There
would be no uniformity of decisions. For every act of an
officer, civil or military, of the United States, including alike
the highest and the lowest, done under their authority, he
would be liable to harassing litigation in the State courts.
However regular his conduct, neither the Constitution nor
laws of the United States could avail him, if the views of
those tribunals and of the juries which sit in them, should
be adverse. The authority which he had served and obeyed
would be impotent to protect him. Such a government
would be one of pitiable weakness, and would wholly fail to
meet the ends which the framers of the Constitution had in
view. They designed to make a government not only independent and self-sustained, but supreme in every function
within the scope of its authority. The judgments of this
court have uniformly held that it is so.t
The jurisdiction here in question involves the same principle, and rests upon the same foundation ,vith that conferred by the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
* Martin v. Hunter's Lessee. 1 Wheaton, 314; Cohens v. Virginia. 6 Ia.
264; Osborn v. The Bank of the United States, 9 Id. 821.
t United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115; Ableman v. Booth et al.) 21
.- ward, 506; Freeman v. Howe, 24 Id. 450.

ANDREWS V. HENSLER.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Syllabus.

The constitutionality of that provision has been uniformly
sustained by the unanimous judgment of this court whenever
the subjecthas been presented for adjudication. The twelfth
section of the act of 1780w and the third section of the act of
the 2d March, 1833, relating to revenue officers, present the
sanle question. We are not aware that a doubt as to the
validity of either has ever been expressed by any Federal
court. The acquiescence is now universal.
The fourth and fifth sections of the act of 1863, are copied
largely from the eighth section of the act of February 4th,
1815.* That act expired by its own limitation at the close of
the then existing war. The section referred to, was continued
in force for one year in the sixth section of the act of March
3d, 1815.t See also the third sectiqn of the act of March 3d,
1817.T
We entertain no doubt of the constitutionality of the jurisdiction given by the acts under which this case has arisen.
The validity of the defence authorized to be made is a
distinct subject. It involves wholly different inquiries. We
have not had occasion to consider it. It has no connection
whatever with the question of jurisdiction.
The order of the court below is REVERSED. An order will
be remitted that the cause be REINSTATED, and that the court
proceed in it according to law.

ANDREwS V.

HENSLER.

I. *Under the code of Louisiana, which allows general and special pleas to

be pleaded together, if consistent with each other, an amended answer
or plea on a redhibitory action for diseased and useless slaves bought at
auction, that the auctioneer, who sold the slaves for the defendant, dedared at his request at the time, that they must be examined by the
physician of the purchaser previous to their delivery, but that the
plaintiff was in such haste to obtain possession of the slaves purchased,
that he removed them without examination, before the act of sale was
*8 Stat. at Large 198.

. t Id. 233.

$ Id. 396.

