Dec. 1867.]

CRAWSHAY v. SOUTTER AND KNAPP.

739

Statement of the case.

true answer to the proposition is that there is no matter of
contract involved in the substitution of new trustees, with
the assent of the chancellor, in the place of those named in
a testamentary devise, unless the act be one which infringes
some vested right of the trustees. .othing of the kind is
pretended in this case and there is no foundation for the
proposition.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED
WITE COSTS.

CRAWSHAY ET AL.

V.

SOUTTER AND KNAPP.

1. Where there had been a foreclosure and sale under a railroad mortgage
to secure certain bonds, exceptions to the sale were refused to be entertained in favor of such of the bondholders as had been parties to a
scheme under which the sale had been made for the formation of a new
company, and had surrendered their bonds in exchange for stock and
bonds of such new association.
2. Where as to a bondholder differently situated the decree below, in confirming the sale, had imposed the condition of payment to him by the
new company of the fall amount of his bonds of the old company, principal and interest, such decree was affirmed without considering the abstract validity of the exception taken by him.

THESE were two appeals from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin, one by Crawshay and Oddie and one by Vose, to re-

view an order confirming the sale of a railroad under a
mortgage. The case was shortly this:
Soutter and Knapp, surviving Bronson, were trustees for
the benefit of bondholders of a mortgage called a land-grant
mortgage given by the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company on a part of its road. - The mortgage had been
foreclosed, and as is frequent in such cases in Wisconsin, a
new company, named the St. Paul, was formed by the purchasers, here the bondholders. Among the bondholders
were Crawshay, Oddie, and Vose, the appellants. The two
former surrendered all their bonds, and took certificates of
stock. The latter (who had been appointed by his cocreditors a trustee to t rganize the new company), however,

740

CRAWSHAY V. SOUTTER AND KNAPP.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

yet had in his possession, bonds for $5000,. for which he
held certificates of the trustees entitling him to a corresponding amount of stock in the new company.. A difference
arose between him and his co-trustees; and the court having
confirmed the sale of the old road under the mortgage, he,
Crawshay and Oddie appealed from its action. The confirmation had been made subject to payment by the new company of his debt, principal and interest.
Mr. Ryan, for the appellants; lUessrs. Cary aud Carlisle,
contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court in
the cases.
After a protracted litigation, the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin, at its last September Term, confirmed the
sale made by the marshal in what is known as the land-grant
foreclosure suit, brought by Soutter and Knapp, surviving
trustees, against the La Crosse and Milwaukee Iailroad Coinpany.' These appeals are brought here to review that order
of confirmation, and will be considered together. Various
exceptions were taken in the court below, and are renewed
here, to the report of the marshal of the sale of the mortgaged premises, but it is unnecessary to notice them, as
Crawshay and Oddie are not in a condition to- avail themselves of them; and the rights of Vose, as owner of bonds
or certificates, are protected by the order of confirmation.
Crawshay and Oddie were original bondholders under the
land-grant mortgage, but before filing their exceptions to
the report of sale, they had surrendered their bonds to the
trustees, appointed under the scheme for the adjustment of
the affairs of the La Crosse company; took certificates of
stock, and subsequently the bonds and stock of the St. Paul
company, as provided in the agreement for organizing it.
By doing this, they elected to abide by the action of the
trustees, and cannot now be heard to interpose any obje2tion
to the confirmation of the sale.
Vose was one of the trustees appointed by the pondhold.

Dec. 1867.]

CRAWSHAY V. SOUTTER AND ]KNAPP.

741

Opinion of the court.

ers of the La Crosse company to adjust its affairs, and form
a new company, but differences sprung up between him and
his co-trustees, resulting in their refusal to co-operate with
him. It is unimportant to inquire whether his co-trustees
were justified in their treatment of him, because, before the
confirmation of the sale by the court, the trust agreement
was substantially closed. All the bondholders, except Vose,
had exchanged their securities for the bonds and stock of
the St. Paul company. Vose, at the time of filing exceptions to the report of the sale, was the owner of five bonds
of the La Crosse company, for which he held the certificates
of the trustees, entitling him to a corresponding amount in
bonds and stock of the new company. It is not necessary to
determine whether, by exchanging his old bonds for certificates of stock in the new company, he was not so far committed to the adjustment scheme, as to prevent his withdrawal from it, for in any aspect of the case, all rights that
he could possibly.have under the land-grant mortgage, were
protected by the court. The order of confirmation was expressly made subject to the payment to him by the St. Paul
company, of five bonds of one thousand dollars each, with
all accrued and unpaid interest, upon the surrender by him
of the certificates of the trustees, and all claims for dividends.
He certainly could reasonably ask no more than the payment of the principal and interest of his La Crosse bondsif he was unwilling to take the stock and bonds of the St.
Paul company with their unpaid dividends, according to the
trust agreement,-and as the court obliged the St. Paul
company to pay him the full amount of his La Crosse bonds,
it is hard to see how he is aggrieved by the order of confirmation.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

