GARCIA-MIR v. SMITH
Opinion in Chambers

GARCIA-MIR ET AL. V.SMITH, ATTORNEY GENERAL
OF THE UNITED STATES, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY
No. A-582.

Decided February 1, 1985

An application to vacate the Court of Appeals' partial stay of the District
Court's order is denied. In proceedings involving a class of Cuban nationals (including applicants) who, having unlawfully entered the United
States, have been detained in a federal penitentiary pending Cuba's
acceptance of their return, have had exclusion orders entered against
them, and assert that they would be subject to persecution if returned to
Cuba and thus are eligible for asylum, the District Court ordered that
certain test cases be remanded to the Board of Immigration Appeals and
that the exclusion orders be set aside. The Court of Appeals' stay,
pending respondents' appeal from the District Court, among other
things, (1) refused to delay deportation of class members who would not
be eligible for asylum, regardless of the outcome on the merits of the test
cases, because they had committed serious crimes or otherwise posed a
danger to the security of the United States, but (2) shifted to the Government the burden of proving that the alien was excludable on such
grounds. Applicants simply have not made a showing of irreparable
injury that would warrant interference with the Court of Appeals'
partial stay.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants are members of a class of Cuban nationals who
unlawfully entered the United States as part of the Mariel
boatlift in 1980. They have been detained in the federal
penitentiary in Atlanta pending Cuba's willingness to accept
their return, and have had final orders of exclusion entered
against them by the Board of Immigration Appeals. Matter
of Leon-Orosco and Rodriguez-Colas, Interim Decision 2974
(1983). The instant proceedings are the most recent stage of
litigation which has lasted for more than four years. Attorneys for the class have sought to reopen the administrative
exclusion hearings of two individual class members on the
theory that they belong to a "social group," defined as the
Mariel boatlift participants, whose members allegedly would

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

469 U. S.

be subject to persecution if returned to Cuba, thus making
them eligible for consideration for asylum. See 8 U. S. C.
§§ 1101(a)(42) (A), 1158. The parties stipulated that the
decisions on the two individual motions to reopen "will
be binding on all asylum/withholding of deportation issues
relating to membership in the Freedom Flotilla as a social
group," but they also expressly provided that the decisions
would have no binding effect over the determinations of other
class members "with respect to statutory and regulatory
exceptions to asylum/withholding eligibility."
The Board of Immigration Appeals denied the two test
motions to reopen on the ground that the aliens had not presented a prima facie case of persecution. The District Court
ruled on October 15, 1984, that the aliens had presented sufficient evidence of a likelihood of persecution and, therefore,
that the Board had abused its discretion in failing to reopen
the test cases. Fernandez-Roque v. Smith, 599 F. Supp.
1103 (1984). The District Court remanded the test cases to
the Board and set aside all outstanding orders of exclusion.
Meanwhile, the United States and Cuba on December 14,
1984, concluded an agreement on immigration matters in
which Cuba consented to the return of 2,746 named boatlift
participants in exchange for the resumption of this country's
normal processing of preference immigration visas for Cuban
nationals. The agreement limits the number of boatlift
participants that may be returned to 100 per month, except
that, if fewer than 100 are returned in a calendar month, the
shortfall may be made up in subsequent months up to a total
of 150 returnees per month. The Cuban Government apparently has indicated that it will not mistreat anyone returned
under the agreement. Respondents contend that the United
States will be severely prejudiced by any delay in carrying
out this agreement because Cuba may refuse at some future
time to complete its end of the bargain after it has received
the domestic political benefits of the eased immigration to
this country.

GARCIA-MIR v. SMITH
1311

Opinion in Chambers

Respondents appealed the District Court's October 15,
1984, order and sought a stay pending appeal, which was
denied by the District Court. The Court of Appeals for the
Eleventh Circuit granted a partial stay on January 16, 1985,
which it modified by order of January 25, 1985. The net
effect of the stay as modified is threefold: first, to stay the
vacation and remand of all outstanding orders of exclusion;
second, to acknowledge the Government's voluntary agreement not to deport any class members until February 8, 1985;
and third, to prohibit the Government from taking any "action to return to Cuba any of those class members identified
in the stipulations who claim eligibility for asylum on the
ground that they have a well-founded fear of persecution
because of membership in the social group, and who are not
returnable under subsection 2 of 8 U. S. C. § 1253(h), until
such time as the issues on this appeal are resolved or until
further order of this court" (footnotes omitted). Applicants
seek to have this stay set aside or further modified.
A stay granted by a court of appeals is entitled to great
deference from this Court because the court of appeals ordinarily has a greater familiarity with the facts and issues in a
given case. See Bonura v. CBS, Inc., 459 U. S. 1313 (1983)
(WHITE, J., in chambers); O'Connor v. Board of Education,
449 U. S. 1301, 1304 (1980) (STEVENS, J., in chambers);
Coleman v. PACCAR, Inc., 424 U. S. 1301, 1304 (1976)
(REHNQUIST, J., in chambers). There is no need to evaluate
applicants' likelihood of success on the merits; they simply
have not made a showing of irreparable injury which would
warrant interference with the partial stay granted by the
Court of Appeals. The Court of Appeals merely refused
to further delay deportation of class members who would not
be eligible for asylum under the "social class" theory even if
the two individual test motions were ultimately successful on
the merits. These are persons who are excludable and not
entitled to asylum under 8 U. S. C. § 1253(h)(2) because they
have committed serious crimes or they otherwise pose a danger to the security of the United States. There is no reason

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

469 U. S.

to grant these individuals automatic relief simply because
some of their fellow class members may be eligible to be
considered for asylum.
Under the partial stay, every class member may pursue his
own individual remedies during the pendency of the appeal
and, if he is not excludable under § 1253(h)(2), prevent his
deportation. In fact, the terms of the partial stay shift to
the Government the burden of proving that the alien is within
that statutory provision before he may be excluded, when
ordinarily the burden would be on the alien to prove his
entitlement to remain in this country. Applicants' principal
argument against the partial stay is that requiring individual
motions to reopen would present significant administrative
difficulties. Each of the more than 1,500 class members will
have to file individual motions to reopen. The necessary
balancing of these difficulties against the prejudice to the
Government from further delay is something the Court of
Appeals is in a far better position than this Court to do. The
specificity of the partial stay order indicates that it was
drafted with some care and that it endeavors to reflect a
considered balancing of the various interests at issue. This
Court is not in a position to second-guess a balancing of
this kind.
The application is denied.

