THOMAS v. SIERRA CLUB
Opinion in Chambers

THOMAS, ACTING ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, ET AL.
v. SIERRA CLUB ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-537.

Decided January 17, 1985*

Applications to stay-pending appeal to the Court of Appeals-the District
Court's order holding the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in contempt for failing to promulgate certain emission standards for radionuclides as required by the District Court's earlier order
based on its interpretation of ยง 112(b)(1)(B) of the Clean Air Act, are
denied.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants, the Acting Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the EPA, and the Idaho Mining Association, ask me to stay an order of the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California pending
appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The
order holds the Administrator in contempt for failing to
promulgate certain emission standards for radionuclides as
required by an earlier District Court order. The controversy has reached this point due to a disagreement between
the District Court and the agency over the construction of
ยง 112(b)(1)(B) of the Clean Air Act, as added, 84 Stat. 1685,
42 U. S. C. ยง 7412(b)(1)(B), which governs the actions the
agency must take with respect to establishing emission
standards for hazardous air pollutants. Essentially, the
District Court reads the section to require the EPA either
to promulgate emission standards for all sources of the pollutant previously identified by the agency or to make a specific
finding that the pollutant "is not a hazardous air pollutant";
the agency believes that under the section it may establish
standards for some sources but not for others.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

*Together with No. A-540, Idaho Mining Association v. Sierra Club
et al., also on application for stay of the same order.

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

469 U. S.

Applicants seek the unusual relief of a stay from this Court
pending appeal to a Court of Appeals. See Atiyeh v. Capps,
449 U. S. 1312, 1313 (1981) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
They have not pointed us to a conflict of authority on the
issue decided by the District Court. Under those circumstances I do not think a stay is in order. Even if the Court of
Appeals were to affirm the District Court I am by no means
certain that four Members of this Court would vote to grant
certiorari to review this statutory question.
The applications for stay are accordingly denied.

