OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

469 U. S.

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA POWER AGENCY v.
GRACE GEOTHERMAL CORP.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-379.

Decided December 7, 1984

An application to stay the Federal District Court's order granting a preliminary injunction against applicant's commencing state-court eminent
domain proceedings under California law to condemn certain geothermal
leases obtained by respondent from the Federal Government, is denied.
Although the District Court has not, as required by Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure 65(d), provided any reviewing court with the benefit of its
views as to the nature of the irreparable injury that respondent might
suffer or the inadequacy of the remedy at law, or any other requirement
for an injunction, appeal as of right lies from the District Court to the
Court of Appeals. Moreover, it cannot be said with any certainty that
this Court would grant certiorari to review a Court of Appeals judgment
approving the District Court's action, or that the District Court may not
enter appropriate findings in support of an injunction before the case is
heard in the Court of Appeals.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant asks that I stay an order of the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California granting a preliminary injunction against its commencing eminent
domain proceedings in state court against certain leasehold
interests held by respondent. On the basis of the papers
submitted to me by both parties, it seems to me that the
applicant has made out a strong case for the proposition that
respondent had a plain and adequate remedy at law through
the process afforded under California's eminent domain laws.
A party seeking an injunction from a federal court must
invariably show that it does not have an adequate remedy
at law. See Hillsborough v. Cromwell, 326 U. S. 620, 622
(1946). Nevertheless, for the reasons that follow I have
decided not to grant the application for stay.
Respondent contends that it will suffer irreparable harm
because upon the filing of a state eminent domain proceeding

NORTHERN CAL. POWER AGCY. v. GRACE GEOTHERMAL
1306

1307

Opinion in Chambers

by applicant, an order would issue for immediate possession
of the property in question. It claims that loss of possession
would mean loss of its only source of revenue, and would lead
to immediate financial complications. On the merits, respondent's contention is that applicant's exercise of eminent
domain to condemn its geothermal leases, which leases were
obtained from the Federal Government under the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970, 84 Stat. 1566, 30 U. S. C. § 1001 et
seq., would be pre-empted by the provisions of that statute.
Applicant in turn contends that respondent would have had
an adequate opportunity to raise this federal claim in the
state condemnation proceedings prior to being deprived of
possession. See Cal. Civ. Proc. Code Ann. §§ 1255.420,
1255.430, 1250.360(h) (West 1982).
So far as the papers before me indicate, the only written
document issued by the District Court in connection with
its granting of an injunction contains only the following
operative language:
"The court finds that the plaintiffs have satisfied the
requirements for issuance of a preliminary injunction
and, accordingly, a preliminary injunction will issue.
"The defendants, and each of them, are enjoined,
pending further order of this court, from filing in any
way, instituting or commencing any eminent domain or
condemnation proceedings or any litigation affecting
plaintiff's interest of whatsoever kind or character in the
property, real or personal, which is the subject of this
litigation."
Thus, the District Court has not provided any reviewing
court with the benefit of its views as to the nature of the
irreparable injury that respondent might suffer or the inadequacy of the remedy at law, or any other requirement for
an injunction. If this were the only order or finding issued
by the District Court, it seems to me to wholly fail to satisfy
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65(d), which provides that

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

469 U. S.

"[e]very order granting an injunction and every restraining
order shall set forth the reasons for its issuance . .. ."
While this Court has on another occasion summarily reversed the judgment of a District Court which failed to comply with Rule 65(d), see Schmidt v. Lessard, 414 U. S. 473
(1974), in that case an appeal lay directly from the District
Court to this Court. Here, appeal as of right lies from the
District Court to the Court of Appeals. I have previously
expressed my view that the All Writs Act, 28 U. S. C.
§ 1651(a), grants the authority to issue stays of district court
orders pending appeal to the court of appeals, see Atiyeh v.
Capps, 449 U. S. 1312, 1313 (1981) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers), but I have also noted my belief that such an exercise
should be reserved for the unusual case. Ibid. Here the
absence of appropriate findings by the District Court makes
it impossible for me to determine whether the District Court
properly required the respondent to show that it had no adequate remedy at law in the state proceedings. The very
absence of these findings, if the District Court entered no
further order than the one that I have quoted, would seem to
be a significant departure from the requirements of Rule
65(d); but I cannot say with any certainty that this Court
would grant certiorari to review a judgment of the Court of
Appeals which approved the action of the District Court
here, nor can I say that the District Court may not enter
appropriate findings in support of an injunction before the
case is heard in the Court of Appeals.
The application for a stay is accordingly denied.

