OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

MONTANANS FOR A BALANCED FEDERAL BUDGET
COMMITTEE ET AL. v. HARPER ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-245.

Decided October 10, 1984

An application to stay the Montana Supreme Court's mandate prohibiting
the placement on Montana's 1984 ballot of an initiative that would direct
the Montana Legislature to apply to Congress pursuant to Article V of
the Federal Constitution to call a convention to consider a federal balanced budget amendment, is denied. The state court's order, in addition to holding the initiative violative of Article V, was also based on the
adequate and independent state-law ground that the initiative was
invalid under the Montana Constitution.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants ask that I stay a mandate of the Supreme Court
of Montana prohibiting the placement on Montana's November 1984 ballot of a "Balanced Federal Budget" initiative. If
adopted by the voters, the initiative would direct the Montana Legislature to apply to Congress pursuant to Article V
of the United States Constitution to call' a convention to consider a federal balanced budget amendment. In addition to
holding the initiative unconstitutional on its face, in violation
of Article V, the Montana Supreme Court held it to be "independently and separately facially invalid under the Montana
Constitution." The Montana court's per curiamorder stated
that an opinion would follow-an opinion which apparently
has not yet been issued-but the order is sufficient to indicate an adequate and independent state-law ground for the
decision. I am not persuaded by applicants' attempt to distinguish Uhler v. American Federation of Labor-Congress
of Industrial Organizations, 468 U. S. 1310 (1984) (REHN1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion in Chambers

469 U. S.

in chambers). The Montana Supreme Court has
rested its decision on the Montana Constitution, and it is
QUIST, J.,

the final authority as to the meaning of that instrument.

Accordingly, for the same reasons given in Uhler, the
application for a stay is denied.

