NASH v. HARSHMAN.
Statement of the Case.

disclosed by the record the bill of exceptions was not tendered
to the judge or signed by him until October 'T,1889, and no
order was entered extending the time for its presentation, nor
was there any consent of parties thereto, nor any standing
rule of court which authorized such approval. The bill of
exceptions was therefore improvidently allowed. 2liiler, v
.lders, 91 U. S. 249, Jones v Grover & Baker Sewing
Machine Co., 131 U. S. Appx. cl, .ichigan, Insurance Bank
v Eldred, 143 U S. 293. As the errors assigned arise upon
the bill of exceptions, we are compelled to affirm the judgment,
and it is so ordered.
.Afwmed.

NASH v. HARSHMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
iWo. 957. Submitted April 17,1893.-Decided May 1,1893.

Tns case is dismissed upon the authority of Hohorst v. Hamburg-Amercan
-Packet Co., 148 U. S. 262.

THis action was commenced in the court of common pleas
of Logan County, Ohio, to foreclose a mortgage made by Nash
to Harshman of real estate then owned by him, and conveyed
by him to one Dupee after the execution of the mortgage.
Nash and Dupee were both made defendants. After issue
joined the cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States on the defendants' motion, on the ground of
local prejudice. Trial was had there which resulfed in a
decree, December 4, 1890, against Nash for the payment of
the debt, and against Dupee for the sale of the land on failure
of Nash to make the payment within ten days from the decree.
On the 11th of December, Nash took an appeal to this court,
which was allowed, and a receiver was appointed to take possession of the estate and hold and manage it pending the
appeal. The appellee moved to dismiss the appeal or affirm
the judgment, assigning the following reasons therefor

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"1. No proper bond for appealing said cause to this court
has been given, and none was required by said Circuit Court
to be given, but in allowing this appeal, said court assumed to
excuse and dispense with the bond required by law, whereby
the allowance of appeal is rendered invalid and this court
acquires no jurisdiction thereby
"2. This appeal is not taken and prosecuted by the party
against whom the decree of the court below was rendered.
"3. It is apparent upon an inspection of the record that said
appeal is frivolous and utterly groundless, and was taken for
the purposes of delay merely"
.Xr Lowes D Johnson for the motion.
No one opposing.
THE CHIEF JUSTInC
The appeal is dismissed.
Hamburg-Amerzca_Packet Co., 148 U. S. 262.

H~ohorst v

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE9 RAILROAD
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1275. Submitted April 24, 1893.-Decided May 1,1893.

No appeal now lies to this court from decisions of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

THIS was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
The motion was also entitled in the following cases. Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company; Burlington & Missouri
River Railroad Company, California Central Railway Company, California Southern Railroad Company, Chicago,
Kansas & Nebraska Railway Company, Missouri Pacific

