BOGK v. GASSERT.
Syllabus.

The concluswzn of this coutrt ss that the judgment awarded
the lessees zs erroneous,and must be reversed with costs, and
that the cause should be remanded with directons to the

court below to enter judgment -n favor of the platntiff in
errorfor the above amount of rent due to -t, with interest

thereonfrom October 1, 1889, the date of judgment below,
and it zs accordingly so ordered.

The C-IEF JUSTICE having been of counsel, and MR.JUSTICE
FIELD not having heard the argument, took no part in the
consideration or decision of this case.

BOGK v. GASSERT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 179. Argued and submitted March 27, 1893.-Decided

April 17,1893.

Under the practice in Montana a defendant may move for a nonsuit upon
the ground that the plaintiff has failed to prove a sufficient case for the
jury; but, if he proceed to put in testimony, he waives this right.
When one party has been permitted to state his understanding of the contracts which form the subject of the litigation, there is no error in giving a like license to the other party.
An exception cannot be taken to "a theory announced throughout" an
instruction of the court.
A general exception to a refusal of a series of instructions taken together
and constituting a single request is improper, and will not be considered
if any one of the propositions be unsound.
When a grantor makes an absolute deed of real estate, for a money consideration paid by the grantee to the grantor, and the grantee at the
same time executes and delivers to the grantor an agreement under seal,
conditioned to reconvey the same on the payment of a certain sum at a
time stated, and there is no preexisting debt due from the grantor to the
grantee, and no testimony is offered explanatory of the transaction, it
is for the jury to determine whether the parties intended the transaction
to be an absolute deed with an agreement to reconvey, or a mortgage.
Teal v. Walker Ill U. S. 242, distinguished from this case.
Wallace v. Joinstone, 129 U. S. 58, held to decide that, in the absence of
proof, in such case, "of a debt or of other explanatory testimony, the
parties will be held to have intended exactly what they have said upon
the face of the instruments."
&
VOL. CXLIX-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Tiis was an action at law instituted by Henry Gassert,
Jacob Reding and James H. Steele, as plaintiffs, against
Gustavus Bogk, as defendant, upon a lease of certain premises
in the city of Butte, and also certain mining claims in Silver
Bow County, wherein plaintiffs prayed judgment against
defendant for the restitution of the premises, and for damages
for the detention thereof at the rate of $500 per month.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows
Gustavus Bogk, the defendant below, was the owner of a
lot of ground in Butte City, Montana, upon which stood a
public house known as the Virginia Chop House. He was
also the owner of some mining claims, five in number, located
in Summit Valley, Silver Bow County, Montana. Having
become involved in debt and unable to hold the property, on
May 19, 1885, he sold and conveyed by deed in fee, duly
executed, an undivided half interest in the property to James
H. Steele, one of the plaintiffs, for the sum of $7500, and,
upon the same day, by another similar deed, he sold and
conveyed the other half interest to Gassert and Reding, the
other plaintiffs, for a like sum. These two amounts were paid
to Bogk, and disbursed under his direction. By a separate
and independent instrument in writing of the same day, the
plaintiffs Gassert, Reding and Steele agreed to reconvey the
property to Bogk, if, on or before the end of one year thereafter, he would pay to Steele the sum of 88967.50, and to
Gassert and Reding a like sum. This sum of $17,935, in the
aggregate, was the purchase price of the property, $15,000,
with interest compounded thereon monthly for one year.
The agreement of reconveyance recited the previous sale of
the property, but made no mention whatever of any loan of
money
Two days afterwards, namely, on May 21, 1885, Bogk took
a lease of the property from Gassert, Reding and Steele for
the term of one year, at a nominal rent of $450, payable on or
before December 1, 1885, with a privilege of working the
mines for his own use and benefit. Bogk never offered to
repurchase the property, or tendered to the plaintiffs the sum
of $17,935, or any other sum.

BOGK v. GASSERT.
Statement of the Case.

Under this condition of things, the lease having expired,
plaintiffs demanded possession of the property, and, upon the
refusal of Bogk to comply with the demand, brought action
before a justice of the peace, under a statute of Montana
providing for summary proceedings against tenants holding
over. Upon a plea of title interposed by Bogk, the suit was
transferred to the district court of the proper judicial district,
in accordance with the requirements of the statute, and was
there tried before a jury Plaintiffs proved the deeds of
conveyance, the agreement to reconvey, the lease by them to
Bogk, the rental value of the property, and then rested.
Notice to quit and failure to surrender the premises had been
averred in the complaint, and not being denied by the answer,
under the provisions of the code of procedure in Montana,
were taken as admitted. Thereupon counsel for defendant
moved for a nonsuit upon the ground that the plaintiffs had
not shown that they were ever entitled to the possession of
the premises, or that the defendant had entered into possession
under the lease, or that notice to quit or demand for the surrender of the premises had ever been given to defendant. The
court overruled the motion for a nonsuit, and defendant excepted. The trial thereupon proceeded, and defendant introduced witnesses showing the value of the city property to be
from $18,000 to $25,000, and the other property to be from
$22,000 to $25,000, making in all, the lowest estimate at
$40,000, and the highest at $50,000; that the negotiations
commenced for a loan, that the object was to raise money to
pay off mortgages, judgments, liens, etc., upon the property,
that plaintiffs never had possession of any of it, that interest
was computed upon the amount advanced, that the lease was
given to secure the representation of the mining property and
pay the taxes, and that the transaction was intended as a
mortgage.
Plaintiffs thereupon introduced certain evidence in rebuttal,
and the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs, awarding
them restitution of the property and $2175 as rent of the
premises from May 21, 1886. Upon this verdict judgment
was entered, the case appealed to the Supreme Court of the

OCTOBER TERIM,

1892.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Territory, and the judgment affirmed.
appealed to this court.

Defendant thereupon

3fr .dwn WTToole and 3William Wallace, J., for
plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief, in which they
contended as follows concerning the overruling of the motion
for a nonsuit, and touching the effect of the conveyances
The section of the statute of the Territory of Montana
under which the motion for a nonsuit was made, is identical
with the present Compiled Statutes of the State, and reads as
follows "Sec. 242. An action may be dismissed or a judgment
of nonsuit entered in the following cases
Fifth, By
the court upon motion of the defendant, when upon the trial,
the plaintiff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury" The
exception to the ruling of the court was taken by bill of
exceptions in this case, embodying the evidence. In EKlernsckm-idt v .ecAndrews, the Supreme Court of Montana held
that this was improper under the practice of the Territory and
that the question could only be reviewed on a statement on
appeal. That case was brought to this court on writ of
error, and as a court of appeals for the Territories, it reversed
this decision of the territorial Supreme Court, and held that
the exception was properly preserved under the practice act
of the Territory JKletnsckmndt v ilfcAndrews, 117 U. S. 282.
So that, notwithstanding the ruling of the Supreme Court
upon this question of practice, this court has overruled the
same, and we shall assume that the question is properly presented by the bill of exceptions referred to in the record.
Did, then, the deed and defeasance, or agreement to convey,
per se constitute a mortgage 2 If they did, the lease could
amount to no more than a security, as a mortgagee is never
entitled to the rents and profits until he acquires actual possession. Teal v. Walker, 111 U S. 24:2. That is a well-considered
case, in which this court reviews the authorities at length and
reaches the conclusion that the deed and agreement to reconvey constitute a mortgage, and that until foreclosure and
sale the mortgagee would not be entitled to possession or the
rents, issues and profits of the mortgaged premises.

BOGK v. GASSERT.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

The court in its opinion cites with approbation. Jtugent "v.
Riley, 1 Met. 117, S. . 35 Am. Dec. 355, Wilson v Shoenberger, 31 Penn. St. 295, -Dow v Chamberlin, 5 McLean, 281;
Bayley v Bailey, 5 Gray, 505, Lane v Shears, 1 Wend. 433,
Frezdley v HamiHton, 17 S. & R. 70, Shaw v Erskmne, 42
Maine, 371. If this court stands upon the principles announced
by Chief Justice Shaw in Nugent v Riley and the other cases
cited in support of it, the court erred in not granting the
motion for a nonsuit.
That a deed and agreement to reconvey for a certain sum
at a specified time, constituting one transaction, are per soe a
mortgage, we cite Teal v Falker, supra, Nugent v Riley,
1 Met. 117, Wilson v Shoenberger,31 Penn. St. 295, Preshbaker v Feaman, 32 Illinois, 580, Harbwson v lemon, 3 Blackford, (Ind.,) 51, S. C. 23 Am. Dec. 376, Colwell v. Voods, 3
Watts, 188, S. C. 27 Am. Dec. 345, Edrzngton v Harper, 3
J J. Marshall, 353, S. 0. 20 Am. Dec. 145, -Dowv Chamberlin, 5 McLean, 281, Bayley v Bailey, 5 Gray, 505, Lane
v. Shears, 1 Wend. 433, Fresdley v. Hamilton, 17 S. & R. 70,
Shaw v Erskne, 43 Mame, 371, Jefery v Hursh, 58 Michigan, 246, 'Fossv Eller, 109 Indiana, 260, Bunker v Barron,
79 Maine, 62, Butman v James, 34: Minnesota, 54:7.
Since the decision of this court in Teal v- WValker, and sub-.
sequent to the transaction now under consideration, the question again came up, in which other elements entered into the
transaction, and this court reached a somewhat different
conclusion. Wallace v Johnstone, 129 'U S. 58. But the
deed before the court in Wallace v Johnstone, containing
covenants of warranty, was made to one person, while the
agreement for an option was to a third person, thereby in no
way suggesting a right to redeem by the vendor. We do not
claim that this transaction would per se constitute a mortgage.
It does not present the principles, or call for a determination
of the doctrines announced by the various decisions and law
writers, where the conveyance was to a certain person, who,
as a part of the same transaction, agreed to reconvey to his
grantor upon the payment of a certain sum at a certain time.
The distinction is too apparent to require further comment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

If this court had intended to announce a different doctrine
from that established by the authorities quoted with approbation in Teal v Walker, it would in some way have referred
to the fact. Nor do the decisions cited by the court which
we have above quoted conflict with the case of Teal v Walker,
in so far as it is based upon the cases therein cited with
approbation.
-Hr If IF .Dtxon, (with whom was Air -MarnF Aiorrw
on the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The action in this case was upon the lease of a city lot and
certain mining claims, and a judgment was demanded for the
restitution of the premises, and for damages for detention.
The answer set forth in substance that the lease was one of
a series of contemporaneous agreements, consisting of two
deeds, an agreement to reconvey and a lease, that the deeds
were intended as a mortgage, and that the rental of $450
named in the lease was the amount which it was understood
would be necessary to pay the taxes upon the property, and
the annual assessment work upon the mining claims, and that
upon payment thereof by defendant Bogk the object of the
lease should be fully satisfied and discharged, that the defendant paid this sum, and that the said lease became void and
of no binding force.
The trial took place before a jury, and the assignment of
error relates to the rulings of the court made in the course of
such tral. We proceed to consider them in their order.
1. That the court erred in overruling defendant's motion
for a nonsuit. In this connection, the bill of exceptions shows
that the plaintiffs put in evidence the deeds from Bogk and
wife to the plaintiffs, the agreement to reconvey, the lease
with oral testimonv of the rental value, and then rested.
Defendant thereupon moved for a nonsuit upon the ground
that plaintiffs had failed to prove that they were ever at any
time in or entitled to the possession of the premises, that

BOGK v. GASSERT.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant ever entered into possession under or by virtue of
said lease, and that plaintiffs totally failed to prove a demand
to have been made for the possession of the premises, or ever
served or gave notice to quit upon the defendant. This motion
was overruled. Defendant excepted, and proceeded to introduce testimony in defence.
The practice in Montana (Comp. Stat. sec. 242) permits a
judgment of nonsuit to be entered "by the court, upon motion
of the defendant, when, upon the trial, the plaintiff fails to
prove a sufficient case for the jury" Without going into the
question whether the motion was properly made in this case,
it is sufficient to say that defendant waived it by putting in
his testimony A defendant has an undoubted right to stand
upon his motion for a nonsuit, and have his writ of error if it
be refused, but he has no right to insist upon his exception,
after having subsequently put in his testimony and made his
case upon the merits, since the court and jury have the right
to consider the whole case as made by the testimony It not
infrequently happens that the defendant himself, by his own
evidence, supplies the missing link, and, if not, he may move
to take the case from the jury upon the conclusion of the
entire testimony Grand T'runk Railway v Cummzngs, 106
U. S. 100, Accident Insurance Co. v Crandal,120 U. S. 527,
.Northern Pactfe Railroad v .Mares,123 U. S. 710,
rnson,
Insurance Co. v Smzth, 124 U. S. 405, 425, Bradley v Poole,
98 Mass. 169, Columbza & QPuget Sound Railroadv Hawthorne, 144 U. S. 202.
2. The second error assigned is to the admission of the conversation of the parties at the time of the execution of the
instruments. Exception was duly taken upon the trial to the
admission of this testimony This exception does not seem to
have been incorporated in either of the bills of exceptions, but
in a "Statement on Appeal," which appears to have been settled and signed by the judge in the same manner as a bill of
exceptions, and to have been treated as such by the Suprene
Court of the Territory The Code of Civil Procedure of Montana provides (see. 432). for a statement of the case to be used
on appeal, which shall state specifically the particular errors

OCTOBER TERMr, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

or grounds upon which the appellant intends to rely, and
which seems to take the place of an ordinary bill of exceptions.
Under this code, (sec. 628,) "when the terms of an agreement
have been reduced to writing by the parties, it is to be considered as containing all those terms, and, therefore, there can be
between the parties and their representatives or successors in
interest no evidence of the terms of the agreement other than
the contents of the writing, except in the following cases
First, where a mistake or imperfection of the writing is put in
issue by the pleadings, second, where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute. But this section does not exclude
other evidence of the circumstances under which the agreement was made, or to which it relates, as defined in section
632, or to explain an extrinsic ambiguity, or establish illegality or fraud. The term, agreement, includes deed and wills, as
well as contracts between the parties."
In this case Bogk had been called upon as a witness for
himself, and testified that he had applied to these parties for
a loan, not a sale, that he wanted money to pay off parties
whom he owved, that he first spoke to Gassert or to Steele,
but there was a dispute whether he should pay one per cent
or one and a half per cent, "but it should have been made in
a deed with a bond to me for a deed back again to me. I
wanted it for a year, to pay off these parties and give them a
mortgage for it, that was the first agreement." But the
plaintiffs demanded a deed with an offer to give a bond for a
deed back again, "so you can release it -pay it off at any
time", "Steele and Harry Gassert said this to me, said ' we
want a deed, but will give you a bond to convey back at any
time.'
At the time of the negotiation of this loan I
promised to repay the 815,000 to the plaintiffs just as soon as
I made a sale of my mines. I had these mines so that I
thought I could make a sale of them, and calculated to pay it
that way, I promised to pay it inside of a year. The interest
was put all together for a year, but I agreed to pay this interest
every month, but through my sickness and the bad luck I had,
I could not succeed, and could not pay it. The agreement was
this way If I should pay the interest they should give me a

BOGK v. GASSERT.
Opinion of the Court.

written paper and credit for the amount, if it was paid in
instalments as agreed between us. This lease, which was read
in evidence, was made to secure the representation of two of
my mimng claims, the Eva. and Leaf, which were then unpatented, and to secure the payment of the taxes on my property,
which would probably be $250 and $200 for representing,
making in all $450, which this lease was given to secure and
nothing else, which representation work I did for that year,
1885, and I have paid the taxes.
There was nothing
at all said in these interviews between me and plaintiffs or
their agents or attorneys, as to the sale of my property They
said, give them a deed and they would give me a bond for a
deed back again. The negotiation between us was to loan me
money There was no price set to any piece or pieces of this
property It was a loan on all the property together. Tifey
made me no proposition pending these negotiations to purchase my property, to buy it of me."
In rebuttal, Steele and Gassert were put upon the stand
and asked as to the conversation which took place at the
attorney's office at the time the deeds and contract to reconvey were made. *This conversation was admitted, and defendant excepted. Now, while this might have been improper
as original testimony, it would have been manifestly unfair
to permit Bogk to give his version of the transaction gathered
from conversation between the parties, and to deny the plaintiffs the privilege of giving their version of it. The defendant
himself, having thrown the bars down, has evidently no right
to object to the plaintiffs having taken advantage of the license
thereby given to submit to the jury their understanding of the
agreement. The code is merely in affirmance of the common
law rule, and was evidently not intended to apply to a case
of this kind.
3. Error is also imputed to the court "m adopting the
theory announced throughout the instruction given on the
part of the defendants" (in error) "that the transaction could
not amount to a mortgage unless there was a personal liability
on the part of the plaintiff," (in error, defendant below,) "upon
which a recovery could be had, and error in giving conflicting

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

instructions upon said matter." This assignment is obviously
too general. No exception was taken to any "theory" announced by the court, but if there were, it would not be valid,
since the theory of the court must be expressed in particular
language, and the exception should be taken to such language.
Different persons may derive different theories from the same
language, and in this very assignment error is charged in
giving conflicting instructions upon the same matter.
4. Error is also assigned in not giving either of the instructions 2, 6 and 7, as requested by defendant. Upon the trial,
the court was requested by the plaintiffs to give and did give
seven instructions, to which defendant excepted, but as no
error is assigned here upon such refusal, we are not at liberty
to consider them. Defendant also requested twelve instructions, all of which were given, except the second, sixth and
seventh, "to which action of the court," says the bill of exceptions, "the defendant then and there objected, for the reason
that said instructions numbered two, six and seven correctly
state the law as applicable to the facts in evidence, and are
necessary in order that the jury may arrive at a correct conclusion, but, notwithstanding said objection, the court refused
to give said instructions two, six and seven, to which action
the defendant, by his counsel, excepted," etc.
This exception, as well as the one taken to the granting of
the plaintiff's requests, is open to the objection so often made
that a general exception taken to a refusal of a series of instructions taken together, and constituting a single request,
is improper, and will not be considered if any one of the
propositions be unsound. Johnston v Jones, 1 Black, 209,
220, Rogers v The .famshal, 1 Wall. 644, Harvey v Tyler,
2 Wall. 328, Beaver v Taylor, 93 U. S. 46, WForthngton v.
.Mason,
101 U. S. 149, _Houlor v Amertcan Life Insit-ance
Co., 111 U S. 335. This is not only the rule in this court but
also in the courts of Montana. IFoods v Berry, 7 Montana,
195. Although since this case was decided, and at a session
of the legislature in 1887, the law was changed so that the
giving or refusal to give instructions are deemed excepted to,
and no exception need be taken.

BOGK v. GASSERT.
Opinion of the Court.

The flrst
of these instructions, (No. 2,) stripped of its
verbiage, assumes that an absolute deed and a separate
written contract to reconvey, both under seal, bearing even
date, executed and delivered at the same time, between the
same parties, and relating to the same land, the agreement to
reconvey being conditioned upon the payment by the grantor
to the grantee of a certain sum of money within a certain
period, constitute in law and fact a mortgage, and will not
convey any interest in the premises, or entitle the grantee to
the possession of the land described.
There is undoubtedly a great conflict of authority upon this
point. The case of Teal v Walker, 111 U. S. 242, is relied
upon as sustaining this position. In that case one Goldsmith
borrowed of Walker $100,000, and gave his note therefor.
At this time Goldsmith was the owner of certain lands in
Oregon, and he and Teal were the joint owners of certain
other lands. These parties executed three several deeds of
these lands, absolute on their face, but intended as a security
for the note, as appeared by a defeasance in writing executed
upon the same day as the note. This instrument, after reciting
the execution of the note, declared the legal title of the lands
conveyed to be in trust; that Teal and Goldsmith should retain
possession of the lands until said note should become due and
remain unpaid thirty days, and upon default being made in
the payment of such note, they would surrender the lands to
Hewitt, the trustee in the deed, who should take possession of
them, and, upon thirty days' notice in writing, should sellthe
same at public auction. These instruments were construed to
constitute a mortgage. In delivering the opinion of the court,
Mr. Justice Woods said (p. 2-7) "The execution of all the
deeds and the execution of the defeasance, which applied to
all the deeds, occurred on the same day, and was clearly one
transaction, the object of which was to secure the note for
$100,000 made and delivered by Goldsmith to Walker."
Here it will be observed that there was a debt, a note, a deed
absolute on its face, and a defeasance conditioned upon the
prompt payment of the debt.
The case of Wallace v Johinstone, 129 U. S. 58, 61, 64, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

more nearly in point. The petition in this case alleged that
defendant Wallace, by deed of warranty, conveyed certain
lands to plaintiffs and one Leighton, that on the same day
the grantees delivered to defendant Ford a contract in writing,
giving him the option for sixty days of purchasing the land in
question, upon payment of the sum of $5876, which contract
on the same day was assigned to Wallace. Neither of the
defendants ever paid anything on the lands, and neither
exercised the option of repurchasing, and their rights had thus
become forfeited. Defendant answered, admitting the deed
and contract, but alleging that, taken together, they were
understood by the parties as constituting a mortgage for the
security of the money received by him at that time, which was
in reality a loan, and that the transaction was to avoid the
effect of the usury laws of Iowa. He,therefore, prayed for a
right to redeem. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr.
Justice Lamar said. "If this question could be determined by
an inspection of the written papers alone, the transaction was
clearly not a mortgage, but an absolute sale and deed,
accompanied by an independent contract between the vendee
and a third pergon, not a party to the sale, to convey the
lands to him upon his payment of a fixed sum within a certain
time. Upon their face there are none of the mndica by which
courts are led to construe such instruments to be intended as a
mortgage or security for a loan, nothing from which there
can be inferred the existence of a debt, or the relation of borrower and lender between the parties to the deeds or between
the parties to the contract.
A deed of lands, absolute
in form with general warranty of title, and an agreement by
the vendee to reconvey the property to the vendor or a third
person, upon his payment of a fixed sum within a specified
time, do not of themselves constitute a mortgage, nor will
they be held to operate as a mortgage, unless it is clearly
shown, either by parol evidence or by the attendant circumstances, such as the condition and relation of the parties, or
gross inadequacy of price, to have been intended by the
parties as a security for a loan or an existing debt." The
purport of this case isthat, in the absence of proof of a debt

BOGK v. GASSER-T.
Opinion of the Court.

or of other explanatory testimony, the parties will be held to
have intended exactly what they have said upon the face of
the instruments.
In the case under consideration there is no mexition made, in
either of the three instruments, of a debt, a loan, a note, or
anything from which the relation of borrower and lender can
be inferred, and the case, in this particular, is distinguishable
from that of Teal v. Walker, and is more nearly analogous to
that of Wallace v Johnstone. It is true that in Wallace v
Johnstone there was a deed with the usual covenants of warranty, and that the contract to reconvey was made with a
third person, but as the contract was immediately assigned
by such third person to the grantor in the deed, it is not perceived that the case is affected by either of these circumstances. The inadequacy of price was undoubtedly great, but
this would not, of itself, authorize the court to take the question from the jury In this connection it might be reasonably
urged that defendant, having not only made an absolute deed
of the premises, but having, two days thereafter, taken a lease
of the same from his grantees, was thereby estopped to deny
their title, but we do not find it necessary to express an opinion upon that point. The case was evidently a proper one to
go to the jury, who were left to determine the question
whether the instruments were intended as a mortgage, and
were instructed that, if they found them to be such, the plaintiffs could not recover. The case seems to have been fairly
tried, and the defendant has no just cause for complaint.
In the seeond of these instructions (INo. 6) the defendant
requested the court to charge, "That if the jury believes from
the evidence that the defendant was induced to sign and execute the alleged lease in evidence herein by the deceit, misrepresentation, trick or fraud of the plaintiffs, or that the
defendant executed the same by and under an innocent mistake or misapprehension as to the facts, then said lease is
invalid and void, and you will find for the defendant." As
there was no evidence in the case of deceit or misrepresentation or fraud, or even of the fact that the defendant executed
the instruments under a mistake of fact, the request was prop-

