OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

of the building or premises in which the liquors are sold, if he
has leased it with knowledge that such liquors are to be there
sold, or has knowingly permitted their sale therein. But this
section, creating a new liability, unknown to the common law,
is to be strictly construed, and is not to be extended beyond
the clear import of its terms, and, as the only remedy which
it gives is an action against the seller of the liquor, or against
the owner of the place where it is sold, to recover damages
suffered by reason of sales to particular persons, it cannot be
construed as authorizing an injunction to prevent the use of
the building for future sales.
The complaint in this case has no foundation, in common
law or statute, in principle or precedent.
Judgment affrmed.

In re TYLER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 17.

Original. Argued April 4,1893.-Decided April 24,1893.

rropertv within a State, which is in the possession of a receiver by virtue
of his appointment as such, by a Circuit Court of the United States, is not
subject to seizure and levy under process issuing from a court of the
State to enforce the collection of a tax assessed upon its owner under the
laws of the State.
The exclusive remedy of the State tax collector in such. case is in the Circuit Court which appointed the receiver, where the question of the validity
of the tax may be heard and determined, and where the priority of payment of such amount as may be found to be due which is granted by the
laws of the State will be recognized and enforced.

The writ of habeas corpus is not to be used to perform the office of a writ of
error, or of an appeal.
When no writ of error- or appeal will lie, if a petitioner for a writ of habeas
corpus be imprisoned under a judgment of a Circuit Court which had no
jurisdiction of the person or of the subject matter, or authority to render
the judgment complained of, then relief may be accorded by writ of
habeas corpus.

Tnis was a~petition for a writ of habeas corpus filed by leave
of court March 7, 1893, by M. V Tyler, sheriff of the county

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.

1165

Statement of the Case.

of Aiken, South Carolina, representing that he is unjustly detained by G. I. Cunningham, United States marshal for the
District of South Carolina, to which the marshal made return
upon a rule laid upon him to do so. The facts appearing from
the petition, return, and accompanying documents are as
follows:
On December 5, 1889, in the case of Bound v The South
Clarolina Railway Company, Daniel H. Chamberlain was appointed receiver of the railway company by an order of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Carolina, with the usual powers of receivers in such cases, and
all of the property of the company was placed under his care
and management and protected by injunction. On March 7,
1892, the receiver filed a bill in equity in that court against the
treasurers and sheriffs, eighteen in number, in the counties
through which the railroads in his possession passed, alleging
that the treasurers were about to issue tax executions and the
sheriffs about to levy and seize thereunder property of the railroad company for the taxes for the fiscal year beginning
November 1, 1890. The bill alleged that the taxes for that
fiscal year were unconstitutional and illegal in part, upon various grounds set forth therein in detail, and involving an alleged
wrongful and illegal raising of the valuation of the state board
of equalization, that the levy and sale of the road would cause
irreparable injury, preventing the receiver from carrying on
the business of the railroad as a common carrier; that there
was no adequate remedy at law; that a multiplicity of suits
would be necessary to protect his rights if he sued at law; and
that the levy would cast a cloud upon the property; and prayed
for an injunction against the issue and levy of the tax warrants
in question. The bill further set forth that the receiver had
tendered without condition the taxes admitted to be due and
that the same had been refused by the county treasurers, but
pending the motion for preliminary injunction the defendants
were permitted to waive this refusal and receive the amounts
tendered, which was accordingly done. On April 8, 1892, the
court, after full hearing, issued the injunction prayed for, and
the defendants having answered, it was provided by order of

OCTOBER TERMr, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

court that the testimony should be taken in due course in time
for final hearing at the November term, 1893.
For the fiscal year beginning November 1, 1891, the receiver
made a return of the property for taxes as provided by law,
similar to the return he had made the year previous, and the
state board of equalization having again proceeded in the
matter of the assessment and valuation as before, the receiver
again tendered the taxes calculated on the valuation as returned, and not upon the valuation as assessed. The amounts
so tendered were received, but tax executions or warrants were
issued by the county treasurers, for the difference between the
return and the assessment, and on February 4, 1893, levy was
made by Tyler, sheriff of Aiken County, upon property in the
hands of the receiver at Aiken. There were apparently two
warrants, one for $1215.14 and the other for $466.40, and the
value of the property levied on was $9500. That property consisted of fourteen freight cars, five belonging to the South
Carolina Railway, one to another South Carolina company,
and eight to various railroad companies of other States. All
of the cars were marked with the initials of the corporations to
which they belonged, and most of them with the names of the
owners in full. Eight of the cars were loaded with merchandise belonging to shippers. The cars were chained to the
track of the South Carolina Railway Company alongside of
the only freight depot of the company in Aiken, and effectively stopped traffic through that depot for a period of
twelve days. On Monday, February 6, 1893, the receiver
filed his petition in the Circuit Court of the United States,
alleging the illegality of the taxes for which the warrants were
issued, in substantially the same terms as in the bill of the year
before, and setting forth that he had paid the taxes admitted
to be due, that the court in the previous case had decided a
tax in all respects similar to be illegal, and, after disclaiming
any intention to delay or escape the payment of the taxes due,
and alleging that he was only doing his duty as an officer of
the court, prayed that the treasurer and sheriff be enjoined
from interfering with the property in the receiver's charge, and
be committed for contempt for levying upon property in the

IN RE TYLER, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

custody of the court. The court issued a restraining order and
a rule to show cause, returnable at Charleston on February 20,
1893, as follows
"Ordered, that an order do forthwith issue and be served
upon said :Ifaeclitchell and M. V Tyler, requiring them to
show cause before me on the 20th day of February, 1893, at
10 o'clock A.M., at the United States court-house, Charleston,
S. C., why they should not be attached and punished as
0
prayed for.
"2. That the said MacMitchell and X. V Tyler do likewise show cause before me at the same time and place why
they should not be enjoined and restrained from interfering
with any or all of the property of the said South Carolina
Railway Company or other property in the possession and °
control of the said D. H. Chamberlain as receiver and officer
of this court, or from interfering in any manner whatsoever
with the officers and agents of the said receiver, and also from
levying upon, advertising or selling or in any manner whatsoever attempting to dispose of the said property That the
said MacMitchell and M. V Tyler do likewise in due course
file an answer, if any, why such further relief as may be necessary should not be granted in the premises.
"4. In the meantime it is ordered that the said Macitchell
and M. V Tyler be, and they are hereby, restrained and enjoined from levying upon, seizing, advertising or selling or in
any manner whatsoever endeavoring to interfere with or to
dispose of the said property in the possession of the said D.
H. Chamberlain, as receiver of this court, until the hearing of
the rule and the order of this court thereon.
"5. That a copy of the petition and order herein be forthwith served upon the said MacMitchell and M. V Tyler."
On February 8 a supplemental petition was filed by the
receiver, reciting the filing of the original petition, the order
thereon, and the service of copies of said petition and order,
and stating that the sheriff refused to comply with a written
demand, on February 7,for the release of the property from
his custody
Accompanying this supplemental petition were affidavits

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
stating the facts in detail, whereupon the order of February 6
was so modified as to require the respondents to show cause
on February 11, 1893, instead of February 20.
The respondents answered the petitions on February 12,
denying any unlawfulness in the assessment and admitting
that the property was in the possession of the court, but denied
that such possession exempted the same from process of law
for the collection of taxes by the State. They admitted the
levy upon the cars, but denied any knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief that any of them belonged to corporations other than the South Carolina Railway, and denied
that the levy seriously interfered with the receiver or the
yublic in doing business over said road. They further denied
that the facts stated in the oginal and supplemental petitions,
if true, were sufficient to constitute a contempt of court, and
insisted upon various matters, afterwards again set forth in
the application for habeas corpus.
They asserted the legality and regularity of the warrants
for the collection of the taxes, and that the levy was made in
obedience thereto, and submitted that they were acting under
the laws of South Carolina as the officers and agents of the
State, " and as such engaged in the performance of their duties
in issuing the said execution, in making the said levies and
in retaining possession of the property so levied upon, under
the valid constitutional laws of the said State, and that if said
petitioners have any controversy with any one in regard
thereto, it is a controversy with the State of South Carolina,
which is no way a party to these proceedings, and that there
can be no controversy with the respondents in this regard
unless they were acting without the commission and warrant
of the State of South Carolina and were trespassers, which
they deny'" And, finally, they disclaimed "any intention
to treat this court or its orders with disrespect, and state that
they have been actuated alone with a desire to discharge their
official duties as officers of the State of South Carolina."
This return was accompanied by a large number of affidavits
tending to show the legality of the tax complained of.
A hearing having been had, the Circuit Court delivered its

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.
-Statement of the Case.

opinion, stating the facts briefly, and holding that the interference by the court by injunction was justified on the ground
of excessive levy and on the ground of the taking of property
other than the property of the alleged taxpayer; but further,
that while property in the hands of a receiver of any court,
either state or national, was bound for the payment of taxes,
state, county, or municipal, yet that a receiver is not bound
to pay taxes in his judgment unlawful, unless by the order of
the court whose officer he is, and that in the present proceeding it was not competent for the court to go into the question
of whether the tax was or was not illegal. The Circuit Court
thereupon entered severally the following orders
"This cause came on to be heard on' petition, rules to show
cause, return thereto and affidavits. And on hearing the
same, and upon due consideration thereof, it is
"Ordered, adjudged and decreed, that an injunction do
issue to M. V Tyler, sheriff of Aiken County, his deputies
and agents, enjoining and restraining them from further
intermeddling, interfering with, keeping and holding the personal property distrained upon by him, belonging to the petitioner, as receiver of the South Carolina Railway Company,
or in his care and custody as receiver and common carrier,
and that this injunction remain of force until the further order
of this court.
"It is further ordered, that the said property be restored
to the custody of the receiver of this court, and that the marshal put him in possession thereof."
" M. V Tyler, sheriff of Aiken County, having been served
with two rules to show cause why he be not attached for contempt, for the matters set forth in copy of petition to each
rule attached, and sufficient cause not having been shown,
and it further appearing that he, notwithstanding, continues
to hold and detain said property, we adopt the precedent set
in In. re Childs, 22 Wallace, 157, by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed, that he is in contempt
of this court and of its orders and process.
"It is further ordered that he do pay a fine of five hundred

OCTOBER TERlI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

dollars, and that the clerk of this court shall enter judgment
thereon -and issue execution therefor. And that he also stand
committed to the custody of the marshal of this court until
he has paid said fine, or purged himself of his contempt
herein."
Among other averments in the petition for the writ of
habeas corpus, it was alleged that by an act of the general assembly of South Carolina, (No. 631,) approved March 19, 1874,
15 S. C. Stat. 789, it isprovided that in all cases where it is
claimed that taxes have been erroneously or illegally charged
upon taxable property within the State, the person so claiming may, by petition, submit a full statement of the facts in
the case, and the comptroller-general may make such abatement thereof as, in his judgment, the same may demand, and
that such relief so granted in cases for erroneous charges as
aforesaid has not been sought by the receiver or the railroad
company That by the statutes of the State it is also provided that the collection of taxes shall not be stayed or prevented by any injunction, writ or order issued by any court or
judge thereof, Gen. Stats. S. C. see. 171, and that in all cases
where taxes are charged against any person, which he may
conceive to be unjust or illegal for any cause, he shall pay the
taxes notwithstanding, under protest, and upon such payment
being made the person so paying may, within a time limited,
by action against the county treasurer, recover such taxes as
may, in such suit, be adjudged to have been wrongfully or illegally collected. It was further averred that by the act of
Congress approved March 3, 1887, and amended by the act of
August 1, 1888, the receiver appointed in this case was required to manage and operate the property situated in South
Carolina according to the requirements of the valid laws of that
State in the same manner as if in possession of the owner
thereof, and petitioner insisted that the action of the Circuit
Court in appointing a receiver did not change the title or possession of the property or its relation to the sovereign power of
the State to tax it, and was subject in like manner as the
property would have been subject had it remained in the
hands of its owners. Petitioner also referred to an act of the

IN fRE TYLEIR, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

legislature of South Carolina, approved December 24, 1892,
Acts S. C. 1892, p. 81, which provided that the assessment of
property for taxation should be deemed and held to be a step
in the collection of taxes, that certain enumerated sections
of the general statutes, thereby declared to be in full force
and effect, should be construed to mean as giving full and
complete power to the county auditor independent of any
rights conferred on county boards of assessors, or other officers, in the matter of securing a full and complete return of
property for taxation in all cases, and that the action of the
auditor under those sections should not be interfered with by
any court of this State by mandamus, summary process, or
any other proceeding, but that the taxpayer should have the
right to pay his tax on such return under protest, as now
provided by law Petitioner, therefore, insisted that an adequate remedy at law was given the taxpayer for unjust and
excessive taxation, and that it was not competent for a court
of the United States to grant the injunction in this case, any
more than it would have been for a court of the State, that
the receiver's possession is that of the court, only for the parties litigant in the suit, and to the extent only of the power
to subject the property to the rights of suitors, subject to the
paramount right of the State to tax the property according
to its own laws, that the railway company was a citizen of
South Carolina, and hence that the receiver, as plaintiff in
his petition, represented a citizen of South Carolina, and proceeded against the petitioner Tyler, who was also a citizen of
that State, that the amount involved was less than gives
jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts of the United States, that,
on the grounds indicated, the court had no jurisdiction, and
its order was void, and that,, therefore, the order of commitinent and fine was void. In conclusion petitioner insisted
"1st. That the injunction proceeding by the receiver is a
suit against the State of South Carolina, that to enjoin the
functionary is to forbid the function of the State to tax by its
own laws and fix and assess its amount by its own procedure,
and that your petitioner, as the officer charged with this state
function, is sued by the receiver, which is infact a suit against

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Jones's Argument for Petitioners.

the State, and contrary to the Eleventh Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
"2d. That under the laws of the United States and of the
State the remedy of the owner or taxpayer is ample by proceeding at law, and he can have none in equity, which is
denied by the statute of the State and on general principles of
equity practice, and that the exigency which induced the
appointment of a receiver does not in any respect change the
legal aspect of the case, but makes the order of the court of
the United States illegal, void and without jurisdiction.
"3d. That to fine and imprison your petitioner for action as
a legal officer, under and according to the valid laws of South
Carolina, is to deny the authority of the State itself, by making it impossible for the State to execute its laws by agents,
except under penalties which the United States courts cannot
impose as an obstruction to the functions of the State itself.
"Wherefore your petitioner insists that he is held in custody
against law, and contrary to the Constitution of the United
States, the supreme law of the land."
This case was argued with lNos. 16, 18 and 19 original, .ost,
page 191.
Mr Ira B. Jones, (with whom was ./Lr Saimuel Lord on
the brief,) for the petitioners in all the cases.
I. While a proceeding by habeas co2pus is a civil proceeding,
Ex pcrte Tom Tong, 108 U S. 556, R obb v. Connolly, 111
U S. 624, contempt of court is a specific criminal offence, and
the imposition of the fine is a judgment in a criminal case.
2tYew Orleans v Steanship Co., 20 Wall. 387, E parte -ear
ney, 7 Wheat. 38. Ever since the case of Bollman v Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75, it has not been doubted that the Supreme
Court has authority to issue habeas corpus where a person is
in custody under the warrant or order of any court of the
United States. The struggle since has been as to the extent
of the inquiry the court could make into the causes of the
commitment.

IN

IRE TYLER, Petitioner.

Mr. Jones's Argument for Petitioners.

Previous to the act of March 31, 1891, establishing the Circuit Court of Appeals, and defining the jurisdiction of the
United States courts, it was settled that the Supreme Court,
having no jurisdiction of criminal cases by writ of error or
appeal, could not, on habeas eorpus, examine into the sufficiency
of the evidence on which the judgment and sentence of the
court was founded, but could, and it was its duty to do so, discharge by means of habeas corpus any person imprisoned
under sentence of any court of the United States, in a criminal case, where there was a want of jurisdiction or an excess
of the jurisdiction, power or authority of the committing
court in the judgment and sentence imposed. Eaxparte Hamilton, 3 Dall. 17, E p.z arte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75, Ex parte
Watkzns, 3 Pet. 193, 7 Pet. 568, Exparte .lfcCardle, 6 *Wall.
318, 7 Wall. 506, Ex parte Xetzger, 5 How 1'76, Ex parte
HYatne, 14 How 103, Exparte 'Wells, 18 How 307, Exparte
.filligan, 4 Wall. 2, .Ex parte .Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38, Ex
parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, Ex
parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18, Ex parte Yi-rgn'isa, 100 U. S. 339,
Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, Ex parte Rowland, 104:
U. S. 604,
oparte 3lason, 105 U. S. 696, Em parte Curtis,
106 U.S. 371, Exparte Carll, 106 U. S. 521, ]feyes v
United States, 109 U. S. 336, Exparte Yarbrough, 110 U. S.
651, Exparte Crouch, 112 U. S. 178, Ex parte B'sgelow, 113
U S. 328, Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, E." parte iFisk,
113 U. S. 713, In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443.
If, therefore, the act establishing Circuit Courts of Appeals,
approved March 3, 1891, authorizes the Supreme Court to review on appeal by defendants in criminal cases, the judgment
of the court below on such questions as are raised in the appli-,
cation for habeas corpus in these cases, there seems to be no
obstacle in the way now of this court in proper cases extending the uses of habeas corpus to an inquiry into the sufficiency
of the evidence on which the judgment was founded and into
errors of law beyond jurisdictional errors.
This sweeping change in the appellate jurisdiction of thins
court seems clearly to allow defendants in criminal cases a
right to appeal direct to this court in such cases above provided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Jones's Argument for Petitioners.

II. If, however, we are mistaken in this respect, and the inquiry is limited to jurisdictional errors, then we submit that
the Circuit Court "has acted without jurisdiotion, or has exceeded its powers to the prejudice of the party seeking relief,"
In e Lane, 135 U S. 443, because the sheriffs in making the
levy for taxes were acting as the duly authorized law officers
and representatives of the State of South Carolina, acting in
obedience to the requirements of the valid laws of the State
and the commands of a superior officer, and that since the
State cannot be made a party to these proceedings without
her consent, neither can her representatives. The test whether
an officer of the State can be sued, is whether the officer is a
trespasser. If the officer can justify his act under a valid constitutional law of the State, he is not a trespasser and is the
representative of the State which cannot be sued without its
consent. Firgznza Coupon Cases, 114 UJ. S. 269, iagood v
Southern, 117 U. S. 52. See also Cunnrngkar v -Macon 6
Brunswick Railroad, 109 U S. 446, Poindexter v Gr'eenhow,
114 U S. 270, 288, Ogborn v United States Bank, 9 Wheat.
738 Davzs v Gray, 16 Wall. 203, Board of Liquzdation
v _iJeComb, 92 U S. 531, United States v Zee, 106 U S. 196.
III. We concede, in its fullest scope, the doctrine that property in the hands of a receiver appointed by a court is in the
custody of the law and cannot be interfered with by a trespasser or to enforce a private claim, and that any such interference with the receiver's possession may be punished as a
contempt of the court. Our contention is that receiver's possession is subordinate to the right of the State in the exercise
of its sovereign power, in its own authorized way, to collect its
taxes which are essential to its existence against all property
within its jurisdiction.
This question came up before Afr. Justice Brewer in the
case of Central Trust Co. v Wfabash, St. Louis &c. Railroad,
26 Fed. Rep. 11, in which a receiver prayed protection from
the payment of a tax. Injunction to restrain tax collector
was refused. The same question was presented to Mr. Justice Blatchford in Stevens v Midland Railroad,13 Blatchford, 104. The court denied the application of a receiver for

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.

Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

injunction against a tax officer. To exempt property in the
hands of a receiver from summary seizures for taxes is
(1) Inconsistent with the power of taxation, (2) inconsistent
with the revenue laws of the State in which it is situated,
(3) contrary to the settled policy of the United States, which
is, not to interfere with the revenue laws of the State, and (4)
contrary to the spirit, if not to the letter, of Amendment XI
to the Constitution.
The orderly administration of justice requires non-interfer
ence with property in the hands of the court, without the
court's permission. This is a settled principle of law On the
other hand, it is just. as clearly settled that the State is sovereign in the matter of her revenue laws which do not trench
upon the federal Constitution, and that a summary collection
of revenues, essential to the existence of the State, is necessary
When these principles conflict, which must yield 2 There can
be no orderly administration of justice without government,
and there can be no government without revenue. The power
to tax, and the right to speedy process for its collection, must
stand as the first cause, the bed-rock of the government, and
any other power of government which conflicts with this must
yield.
-3f&Hugh 1. Bond, .7'., (with whom were -Mr Henry
Crawford and XM J S. Coothan on the brief,) for the respondents in the cases of Tyler, Gaines and Ryser, petitioners in
Nos. 16, 17 and 18.
.Y& .D A. Townsend, Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, filed a brief for all the petitioners.
.M Joseph IF Barnwell for the respondent in No. 17, Tyler,
petitioner.
.Xr John .Randoph Tucker closed for all the petitioners.
In concluding the argument, I propose to insist, without
waiving the other points on my brief, only on the point that
the suit was in fact a suit against the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

Referring for the history of the Eleventh Amendment to
the opinion in In ,re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, Judge Campbell's brief in -ew Hampshre v Zoutsiana,108 U. S. 76,
lHans v. 1outsiana,134: U S. 22, .Xo Gahey v. ) 7irg.nza, 135
U S. 662, 684, and Pennoyer v JlcConnaghy, 140 U S. 1, I
remark that the mandatory language of that amendment is
emphatic. "The judicial power shall not be construed," etc.
It is a constitutional rule of construction, to prevent by direct
or indirect methods a suit against a State in a court of the
United States.
Nor need the State be sued by name, to bring the case
within the mandate of the amendment.
Cases supra, and
the overruling of the dictum in Osborn v Bank of the Unzted
States, 9 Wheat. 738, in Georgza v iliadrazo,1 Pet. 110, 7 Pet.
627, sub nor. Afadrazzo, commented on by the court in In re
Ayers, supra.
In In re Ayers, swpra, and cases cited therein, it is settled
that if the act of a state officer is contrary to the Constitution
of the United States, he cannot protect himself against suit,
by a claim that he represents the State. But where an officer
of the law does an act under valid and constitutional authority of the government of his State, in obedience to its order
and in pursuance of his sworn duty as its officer, the act is not
his own, it is the act of the State bysts own will and mbnd and
hand, the hand and will and mind of its own officer If those
by whom alone the State can act may be punished or prevented, it is folly to say the State is not punished and prevented. To enjoin the officers through whom only it can act
is to enjoin the State, to sue these is to sue the State. If
these are deterred by such proceedings from acting, it is deterred from action, is a State maimed and helpless, a State
only in name, a sovereign without will or capacity to act
at all.
If Congress (Collector v Day, 11 Wall. 113) cannot tax the
salary of a state officer, because thus impairing state autonomy, how can a federal court fine him for doing his duty, or
imprison him to prevent his doing it 2 He is vicariously a victim for the State. If property he holds only for it is taken

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.

Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

from him, or if he be compelled to surrender it, he is deprived
of nothing, but the State is. If so, is not the State sued contrary to the Eleventh Amendment, or decreed against without
a hearing , without due process of law secured by the Fifth
Amendment 2
That the law under which this tax is claimed is not against
the federal Constitution is clear. -Murrayv Hoboken Co., 18
How 272, Cheatham v Unted States, 92 U S. 85, Stanley
v Albany Su~perrvwors, 121 U. S. 535, Tennessee v Sneed, 96
U. S. 69, Shelton v Platt, 139 U. S. 591, citing Synder v
3.Aarks, 109 U. S. 189. Nor is it against the state constitution.
Charlotte, Columbza &c. .Railroad v Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386,
Whualey v Gaillard,21 S. C. 510.
The case stands then free of the only objection to the officer's
claim of immunity from suit, because he represents the State.
He has no interest in the lis contestata, except as her representative. The assessor and sheriff exercised official discretion,
and therefore represented the State, as has been often held,
and how can judicial action be substituted for legislative or
executive discretion 2 State RailroadTax Cases, 92 U S. 575,
Stanley v Albany Supervsors, and other cases, supra.
In all such cases, as the right or interest involved is that of
the State, and none other, the State is a necessary party to
any suit, where the judgment affects it, and unless made a
party, no judgment s lawful, and it cannot be made a party
because of the Eleventh Amendment. This is strongly stated
by this court in iagood v Southern, 117 U. S. 52, 71. The
court says that no decree can be made, because the State is
no party; and the State may refuse to be a party
In Georgia v fadirazo, 1 Pet. 110, Cunnsngham, v JMfacon
&c. Rlailroad, 109 U S. 446, and Louisiana v Jumel, 107
U. S. 711, property held by state officers without right, and
against the provisions of the Constitution of the United
States, was held to be beyond the reach of a federal court,
because the officers held for the State, and to oust their possession would be to oust the possession of the State. This
cannot be done but by making the State a party, which the
Eleventh Amendment forbids. See in accord with this, the
VOL.

X=-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

case of Queen v Lords Commnissioners of the Treasury, L. R.
7 Q. B. 387, 400.
With these settled principles, let us see now what was done
in these cases.
In three of them, the lien for taxes attached in November,
1891, and the receiver was not appointed in these cases until
May and August, 1892. The receivers took subject to the
legal lien, the lien of the State. That lien was made effectual
by levy under which the sheriff held possession. This lien
was paramount to all, protected by receivers. Mere levy did
not disturb the receiver's possession. Albany Bank v Scher
merhorm, 9 Paige, 372, S. 0. 38 Am. Dec. 551, lewztt v
Midland Railroad, 12 Blatchford, 452, 13 Ibid. 104, Georgqa
v Atlantzc & Gulf Railroad, 3 Woods, 437, Central Trust
Co. v Wabash cc. Railway, 26 Fed. Rep. 11.
But the court, by its order, set at naught the lien of the
State, and its levy, without making the State a party This
could not be done. That lien and levy were adjudged null
without a hearing. The State was a necessary party, and the
decree made in its absence was void.
By a mandatory injunction upon its officers, the court
divested the State of its possession, and as it was a necessary
party, before this could be done the order was absolutely void.
Finally the marshal seized the property in the hands of the
State and returned it to the receiver. Can there be doubt
that this was ultra vzres, when the State was not, and could
not be made a party 2 Hagood v Southern, Cunnvngham v
Macon, Loutsiana v Jumel, suvra.
The court did all this on a claim to decide on the amount
of tax due, in disregard of the quasz judicial action of the
Boards of the State, action which this court has held conclusive on the taxpayer, except by payment and suit to recover
back. Hagarv Reclamation _District, 111 U S. 701, '710,
Stanley v Albany Supervisors, 121 U. S. 535.
For refusal to obey the order of the court and to surrender
the possession held by his officers for the State, they were
imprisoned to compel obedience. The officer in prison was
thus disabled from holding and protecting the State's rights of

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.

Mr. Tucker's Argument for Petitioners.

property Sustain this order, and the tax due the State may
be enjoined perpetually, and its power to collect or adjudicate
it will be destroyed. Its tax law will be nullified, and the
court will, by its receiver, sit in the seat of its sovereignty
Every injunction is based on an equsty of plaintiff against
some legal right of defendant, and the court is bound to adjust
the conflict. But how can it do this without deciding how
much tax is due to State 2 and how do that unless the State
be a party 2 and how can it make the State a party 2
From doing both of these the court is excluded, from the
one by fundamental principles of right, from the other by
the Constitution of the United States. In this dilemma, only
one course is left dismiss the bill, as without jurisdiction,
and discharge the prisoners.
But it is insisted, that this property was in oustodia legis,
and that this makes a difference.
All the cases cited are cases of corporations, municipal or
private. :None touch the case of a State. In cases of corporations the court of the receiver may compel the party to
submit to its intervention. But this cannot apply to a State.
It is said, the receiver's court will by its action decree what
is r'tghtly due the State. But the answer is conclusive, that
such decision cannot be made against the claim of the State,
unless the State be made a party But it is not a party, and
cannot be made one. How, then, can the court decide 2 The
real issue is, not whether the federal court will or not decide
justly, but where is theyus demdendi. The Eleventh Amendment declares it is not with the federal court unless the State
waives its immunity, and Hagood v Southern, supra, decides
that the State cannot be compelled to be a party, and no
decision can be made against its right where it is not a party
Can the receiver's court by sequestration of the property
within the reach of the state process, by so holding it,
through fine and imprisonment, as to prevent remedy, drive
the State to this dilemma 2 "Take nothing for your claim, or
what that court will decide you entitled to." This would be
a judicial strategy in fraud of the Eleventh Amendment. It
would be equivalent to saying The receiver's court will

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

decide against you without a hearing, contrary to fundamental principles, or will compel you to be a party to this suit,
contrary to your immunity under Eleventh Amendment. With
the jus decdendi denied to the federal court by that amendment, it would usurp it by duress on the officers of the State,
and by a forceful withdrawal of all property from state
process.
It may be plausibly argued, that for wrongful levy on
property not subject to levy, or for excessive levy, or for
obstruction of the railway, the court could enjoin the officer.
But, as in Rowland's Case, 104 U S. 604, the court has in
excess of jurisdiction taken all out of the sheriff's hands,
and imprisoned them for holding any of it, until all should be
given up. This excess makes the order wholly void.
The court could not rightfully decide the fundamental
question of quantum of tax. That was coram, non judce. It
should have sent the receiver to the state tribunals, where the
State consented to the adjudication of its right, and should
not have assumed or enforced a jurisdiction to try a tax right
of the State without its consent, and in defiance of its constitutional immunity
AIR. CmEF JusTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Unless the order of commitment was utterly void for want
of power, this application must be denied. The writ of habeas
corpus is not to be used to perform the office of a writ of
error or appeal, but when no writ of error or appeal will lie,
if a petitioner is imprisoned under a judgment of the Circuit Court, which had no jurisdiction of the person or of the
subject matter, or authority to render the judgment complained of, then relief may be accorded. Ex parte Parks, 93
U. S. 18, Exparte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, Neilsem, Petitoner,
131 U S. 176. And even if the contention were well founded,
which is not at all to be conceded, that under the fifth section
of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, a writ of error might
be brought to review such a judgment as that before us, and

IIT RE TYLER, retitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

that thereby our. appellate jurisdiction was enlarged, we
should still decline to consider the whole record for error

merely, but only tQ ascertain whether the judgment was
absolutely void.
The property m question was in the custody of the Circuit
Court, m a cause within its jurisdiction, and protected by
injunction. The power exercised was the power to protect
the property in the custody of the court from invasion, and
in order to sustain the receiver's application the ordinary
grounds of equity interposition were not required to be set
forth. Whether madequacy of remedy at law m respect of
the disputed taxes, or the requisite jurisdictional amount, or
diverse citizenship, were shown to exist, was not and could
not be matter of inquiry But it may be observed that
diverse citizenship is not material m ancillary and dependent
proceedings, where jurisdiction exists over the subject of the
litigation, .rppendo7:f v Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, -forgan's
Co. v Texas Central Railroad, 137 U S. 171, 201, that the
objection of adequacy of legal remedy as here presented goes
to the want of equity and not to want of power, Reynes v
-Dumont, 130 U S. 354, and that an apparent defect of
jurisdiction for lack of a matter in controversy of sufficient
pecuniary value can be availed of only by appeal or writ of
error. In re Sawyer, 124 U S. 200, 221. In the latter case,
the distinction between an absolute want of power and its
defective exercise, between cases where the subject matter
falls within a class over which equity has jurisdiction and
those where it does not, is clearly pointed out and the authorities cited.
No rule is better settled than that when a court has appointed a receiver, his possession is the possession of the court,
for the benefit of'the parties to the suit and all concerned,
and cannot be disturbed without the leave of the court, and
that if any person, without leave, intentionally interferes with
such possession, he necessarily commits a contempt of court,
and is liable to punishment therefor. Wiswall v Sampson,
14 How 52, Taylor v. Ca7ryl, 20 How 583, Davis v Gray,
16 Wall. 203, Eippendof v Hfyde, 110 U S. 276, Barton

!82

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

v Barrbour, 104 U. S. 126, Gumbel v Pitkn, 124 U. S.
131.
Ordinarily the court will not allow its receiver to be sued
touching the property in his charge, nor for any malfeasance
of the parties, or others, without its consent, and while the
third section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat.
552, c. 373, now permits a receiver to be sued without leave,
it also provides that "such suit shall be subject to the general
equity jurisdiction of the court in which such receiver or
manager was appointed, so far as the same shall be necessary
to the ends of justice." Neither that, nor the second section,
which provides that the receiver shall manage the property
"according to the valid laws of the State in which such
property shall be situated," restricts the power of the Circuit
Courts to preserve property in the custody of the law from
external attack.
In this case, instead of issuing an attachment against the
petitioner at once for forcibly seizing the rolling stock of this
railroad under the circumstances appearing upon the face of
the record, the court adopted the course of serving him with
a rule to show cause, and with an order restraining him, in
the meantime, from interference with the property
The
petitioner refused, to release the property upon request of the
receiver, and persisted in his attempt to hold possession
thereof by force in disregard of the order of the court.
The general doctrine that property m the possession of a
receiver appointed by a court is n custodi legzs, and that
unauthorized interference with such possession is punishable
as a contempt, is conceded, but it is contended that this
salutary rule has no application to the collection of taxes.
Undoubtedly property so situated is not thereby rendered
exempt from the imposition of taxes by the government
within whose jurisdiction the property is, and the lien for
taxes is superior to all other liens whatsoever, except judicial
costs, when the property is rightfully in the custody of the
law, but this does not justify a physical invasion of such
custody and a wanton disregard of the orders of the court in
respect of it. The maintenance of the system of checks and

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

balances characteristic of republican institutions requires the
cordinate departments of government, whether federal or
state, to refrain from any infringement of the independence
of each other, and the possession of property by the judicial
department cannot be arbitrarily encroached upon, save in
violation of this fundamental principle.
The levy of a tax warrant, like the levy of an ordinary
fierfactas,sequestrates the property to answer the exigency
of the writ, but property in the possession of the receiver is
already in sequestration, already held in equitable execution,
and while the lien for taxes must be recognized and enforced,
the orderly adminimstration of justice requires this to be done
by and under the sanction of the court. It is the duty of the
court to see to it that this is done, and a seizure of the property against its will can only be predicated upon the assumption that the court will fail in the discharge of its duty, an
assumption carrying a contempt upon its face.
The acceptance of the rule has been general, and but few
decisions were cited on the argument in illustration of its
application.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland, in Pr'nce George's
County Commmsstoners v O6arke, 36 Maryland, 206, 218,
staced the question presented to be "whether, after a decree
has been passed by a court of equity for the sale of real estate
and trustees have been appointed to make such sale, a collector
of taxes has the power to seize and sell the same, or any part
thereof, for taxes due." And the court thus proceeded "The
decree was passed the 9th of November, 1865. The taxes for
which the land was sold were assessed for the years 1866 and
1867, and the collector's sale took place the 29th of September,
1870. The land in the meantime had been sold by the trustees,
under the decree in the equity case, but exceptions having been
filed to the sale, the question of its ratification was still pending. So that both at the time of the imposition of the taxes
and at the time of the collector's sale, the land in question
was under the control and jurisdiction of a court of equity
Under these circumstances it was not admissible for a collector
to step in, and by a summary distress and sale divest the court

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

of its jurisdiction, and transfer the question of title to another
tribunal. His plain and obvious duty was to apply to the
court for the payment of the taxes due, and as they had full
power, the presumption is, that they would have directed their
payment through their agents, the trustees, in a manner that
would have occasioned no unnecessary delay, while at the
same tne the rights of all interested would have been properly
protected."
In Greeley v Provident Savings Bank, 98 Missouri, 458,
460, payment of taxes upon intervention of the tax collector
in a case wherein a receiver had been appointed, was resisted
upon the ground of lapse of time, and the court said "The
amount of the taxes was undisputed, and the receiver had in
his hands funds sufficient to pay them, and we think the order
should have been made. It may be conceded that the State
did not have an express lien upon the assets that went into
the hands of the receiver, but it had a right paramount to
other creditors to be paid out of those assets,
a right
which it could have enforced through its revenue officers by
the summary process of distress,
but for the fact that
the property and assets of its debtor had passed into the custody of its courts, whose duty it was in the administration
and distribution of those assets to respect that paramount
right, upon the untrammelled exercise of which depends the
power to protect the very fund being distributed, and to maintain the existence of the tribunal engaged in distributing it,
and to make no order for the distribution of assets zn custodia;
legis except in subordination to that right. The ordinary revenue officers of the State being deprived of the ordinary means
of securing the State's revenue from the fund in the custody
of the court, the duty devolved upon the court to be satisfied,
and upon the receiver to see, that the taxes due the State were
paid before the estate was distributed to other creditors, and
we can conceive of no scheme of admimstration that the court
could properly adopt by which the State's demand could be
reduced to the level of an ordinary debt, and be cut off unless
presented to the court for allowance within a given tne."
And see Central Trust Co. v _Y Y &

110 N. Y 250.

Vorthern Railroad,

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

County of Yuba v Adams, I California, 35, 31, was also a
case of intervention, and the view of the court was thus expressed "The levy of the tax gave to the intervenor a judgment and lien on the property assessed, having the force and
effect of an execution, winch might be enforced in the same
This lien was not divested
manner as other executions.
Brumagun and others,
taken
by
proceedings
by the subsequent
the
law, was not liable
custody
of
but the fund, being in the
to seizure, and the proper remedy was by direct application to
the court having the fund in possession."
We do not understand any other or different rule to have
obtained in the courts of South Carolina. Indeed, in H1and v
Savannah & Charleston Railroad, 17 S. C. 219, the court,
without objection, passed upon a clamim for taxes by the State
against the property of the railroad company in the hands of
the court, and held that it could not be maintained.
If such be the ordinary rule in the state courts, it is quite
apparent that it is the only one that can be properly applied
where property is m the custody of the courts of the United
States. Their officers are the agents of the United States,
and, without an order of the court appointing them, they are
in duty bound to hold the property and refer those who would
interfere with it to the court.
In Georgtav. Atlantw & Gulf Railroad, 3 Woods, 434, an
application was made to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Georgia on behalf of the
State of Georgia for leave to sell the depots, freight houses,
passenger houses, and offices of the railroad company, by
virtue of a writ of Jfr facas winch had been levied on the
property to enforce the collection of taxes due the State, and
the levy suspended by affidavit of illegality filed by the railroad company under a provision of the Code of Georgia to
that effect. A receiver had been appointed by the Circuit
Court after the levy, and had possession subject to the prior
lien of the execution winch was being contested. 39r. Justice
Bradley, for reasons given, held that the levy was void, and
denied the application for leave to proceed with the execution,
while he declared that the court would take care that the full

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

right of the State should be preserved so far as it should be
brought judicially to the notice of the court.
In Iesterrn Unwn Tel. Co. v. Atl. & Pao.Tel. Co., TBissell, 367,
Judge Drummond decided that proceedings in the state court
on the part of one of the parties to condemn a right of way of
the other, in the exercise of the power of eminent domain,
was invalid, because the property was in the possession of the
Circuit Court of the United States, through receivers, "and
that, being so, no action could take place in the state court
affecting it without the consent first obtained of this court."
In Covell v Heyman, 111 U S. 176, 182, where the question
arose as to the replevin by process from a state court of property held by a United States marshal, which this court held
could not be permitted, Mr. Justice Mfatthews, delivering the
opinion, said "The forbearance which courts of co~rdinate
jurisdiction, administered under a single system, exercise
towards each other, whereby conflicts are avoided, by avoiding interference with the process of each other, is a principle
of comity, with perhaps no higher sanction than the utility
which comes from concord, but between state courts and
those of the United States, it is something more. It is a principle of right and of law, and, therefore, of necessity It
leaves nothing to discretion or mere convenience. These
courts do not belong to the same system, so far as their jurisdiction is concurrent, and although they co8xist in the same
space, they are independent, and have no common superior.
They exercise jurisdiction, it is true, within the same territory,
but not m the same plane, and when one takes into its jurisdiction a specific thing, that res is as much withdrawn from
the judicial power of the other as if it had been carried physically into a different territorial sovereignty To attempt to
seize it by a foreign process is futile and void."
This principle is applicable here, for whether the sheriff
were armed with a writ from a state court or with a distress
warrant from a county treasurer, this property was as much
withdrawn from his reach as if it were beyond the territorial
limits of the State.
The inevitable conclusion that this must be so, if constitu-

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

tional principles are to be respected in governmental administration, does not involve interruption in the payment of taxes
or the displacement or inpairment of the lien therefor, but,
on the contrary, it makes it the imperative duty of the court
to recognize as paramount, and enforce with promptness and
vigor, the just claams of the authorities for the prescribed
contributions to state and municipal revenue. And when
controversy arises as to the legality of the tax claimed there
ought to be no serious difficulty in adjusting such controversy
upon proper suggestion. The usual course pursued in such
cases is by intervention pro mnteresse suo, as in the instance
of sequestration. 2 Dan. Oh. P1. & Pr. 4th ed. 1057, 1744,
Savannah v Jesup, 106 U S. 563, 564. The tax collector is
a minsterial officer, Ersksne v ffohnbach, 14 Wall. 613, Stutsman County v Wallace, 142 U. S. 293, and no reason is perceived why he should not bring his claim to the attention of
the court, while, on the other hand, it is clearly the duty of
the receiver to do so, if he contends that the taxes are illegal.
If found valid, they must be paid, if invalid, the court will
so declare, subject to the review of the appellate tribunals.
The courts of the United States have always recognized the
importance of leaving the powers of the State in respect to
taxation unimpaired. Where the questions involved arise
under the state constitution and laws, the decisions of its
highest tribunal are accepted as controlling. Where the Constitution and laws of the United States are drawn in question,
the courts of the United States must determine the controversy for themselves.
Such was the aspect of this case. The receiver had denied
the validity of a distinctive portion of the annual taxes, and
under the direction of the court had proceeded by bill to test
the question in reference to the levy for the previous fiscal
year. Injunction had been granted, issues made up, and the
case stood for final hearing. The alleged illegality existed
in the levy for the current year. The receiver paid the undisputed taxes, and, upon the forcible intervention of the
collectors to compel payment of the balance, brought the controverted point again to the attention of the court in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

application for the protection of the property So far as the
order before us is concerned, we are not called upon to review
the grounds upon which the assertion of illegality is rested.
It has been repeatedly and uniformly held by this court that
in a proper case for equity interposition an injunction will lie
to restrain the seizure of property in the collection of taxes
imposed in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States. Osborn v. Banke of the Undted States, 9 Wheat. 738,
Dodge v TWoolsey, 18 How 331, Allen v Baltmore & Oko
Railroad,114 U S. 311, ITn re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, Shelton,
v Platt, 139 U S. 591. Whether or not the particular case
is one calling for that measure of relief, it is for the Circuit
Court to determine m the first instance, and its action cannot
be treated as a nullity
It is said that any restraint upon or correction of unjust and
illegal assessment and taxation by judicial interposition is
inconsistent with the revenue laws of South Carolina, which
only permit payment under protest and recovery back at law,
and our attention is called to statutory provisions forbidding
the courts to interfere with the collection of taxes by any writ,
process or order, and to various decisions thereunder. In
State v County Treasurer, 4 S. 0. 520, the subject was considered whether the legislature was precluded by the state
constitution, prescribing the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts.
from taking away the remedy by prohibition commonly
resorted to in the case of illegal taxation, and it was held that
it was not, a vigorous dissenting opinion being delivered by
Chief Justice Moses, who said (p. 539) "The power to tax
is the most extensive and unlimited of all the powers which a
legislative body can exert. It is without restraint, except by
constitutional limitations. To tie up the hand that can alone
resist its unlawful encroachments would not only render uncertain the tenure by which the citizen holds his property, but
would make it tributary to the unrestrained demands of the
legislature."
In State v Gaillard,11 S. 0. 309, application was made to
the court for a writ of mandamus, directed to the county
treasurer, commanding him to receive bills of the Bank of

IN IE
*

TYLEI, Petitioner.

Opinion of the Court.

South Carolina for taxes, and the writ was refused. Mr. Justice McIver concurred on the ground that the constitutionality
of the prohibitory act had been settled in the case of State v
County Tpeasurer, just cited.
In Chamblee v. Tibble, 23 S. C. 70, the action was brought
to enjoin the county treasurer from collecting certain taxes for
railroad purposes. The constitutionality of these provisions
was again adjudged, Mr. Justice McIver concurring as before,
solely on the ground of stare decmsis, while Mr. Justice McGowan dissented.
In Bank v Cromer, 35 S. C. 213, the court granted a mandamus to correct an assessment, and held that the statute did
not prohibit the courts from exercising proper control over
officers charged with the listing and assessment of property
for the purpose of taxation when proceeding contrary to law
This was followed by the passage of the act of December
21, 1892, providing that the assessment of property for taxation should be deemed and held: to be a step in the collection
of taxes, and inhibiting interference by mandamus, summary
process or any other proceeding, with official action in respect of assessments.
Manifestly the object of this legislation was to confine the
remedy of the taxpayer for illegal assessment and taxation,
to the payment of taxes under protest, and bringing suit
against the county treasurer for recovery back, but all this is
nothing to the purpose. The legislature of 4 State cannot determine the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and
the action of such courts in according a remedy denied to the
courts of a State does not involve a question of power.
The reasonableness of the contention that it would have
been wiser, in this instance, for the Circuit Court to have
directed the receiver to pay these taxes and bring suits at law
in mine different courts against the county treasurers of as
many counties, to recover them back, need not be passed upon.
The jurisdiction exercised by the Circuit Court had relation
to the property in its custody, and the proceeding before us
relates only to its exercise of power in the protection of that
property from unauthorized seizure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.

o

The stress of the argument, however, on behalf of the petitioner is placed upon the proposition that this proceeding is
void, because it is in fact a suit against the State, and forbidden
by the Eleventh Amendment.

under consideration.

But this begs the question

The petitioner was either in contempt

or he was not. This property was in the custody of the Circuit Court under possession taken in a cause confessedly
within its jurisdiction, and if such possession could not be lawfully interfered with, the petitioner was in contempt. And,
apart from the question of the validity of such legislation, we
know of no statute of South Carolina that attempts to empower its officers to seize property in the possession of the

judicial department of the State, much less in that of the
United States.
The object of this petition was, we repeat, to protect the
property, but even if it were regarded as a plenary bill in
equity properly brought for the purpose of testing the legality
of the tax, we ought to add that in our judgment it would not
be obnoxious to the objection of being a suit against the State.
It is unnecessary to retravel the ground so often traversed by
this court in exposition and application of the Eleventh Amendment. The subject was but recently considered in Pennoyer v
.XcConnaugky, 140 U. S.1, in which Mr. Justice Lamar, delivering the opinion of the court, cites and reviews a large number
of cases. The result was correctly stated to be that where a
suit is brought against defendants who claim to act as officers
of a State and, under color of an unconstitutional statute,
commit acts of wrong and injury to the property of the plaintiff, to recover money or property in their hands unlawfully
taken by them in behalf of the State, or, for compensation
for damages, or, in a proper case, for an injunction to prevent
such wrong and injury, or, for a mandamus m a like case to
enforce the performance of a plain legal duty, purely mmisterial, such suit is not, within the meamng of the amendment,
an action against the State.
And while it was conceded that the principle stated by
Chief Justice Marshall in the leading case of OsbonA v Bank
of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, that "Im all cases where

IN

RE TYLER, Petitioner. 0
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction depends on the party, it is the party named in the
record," and that "the Eleventh Amendment is limited to
those suits in which a State is a party to the record," had been
qualified to a certain degree in some of the subsequent decisions
of this court, yet it was also rightly declared that the general'
doctrine there announced, that the Circuit Courts of the United
States will restrain a state officer from executing an unconsti
tutional statute of the State, when to execute it would be to
violate rights and privileges of the complainant that had been,
guaranteed by the Constitution and would do irreparable
damage and injury to him, has never been departed from.
The views expressed in Untted States v Zee, 106 U S.196
New Hampshtre v Ioustsana,108 U S. '76, In re Ayers, 123
U S.443, Hans v. louisiana,134 U. S.1, 3IcGahey v fir-

gmia, 135 U S.662, and numerous other cases, render further
discussion unnecessary
The levies here were excessive, were made in a large part
on property other than that of the defendants in the warrants,
and in such a way and on such property as to obstruct the
operation of the railroad. No leave of court was sought, and
it was known that the legality of the amount unpaid was
disputed by the receiver, and that identical taxation had been
previously held by the court to be illegal. The sheriff declined
upon request to release the property from seizure, or to yield
to the order of the court.
Such conduct was not to be tolerated, and the court was
possessed of full power to vindicate its dignity and to compel
respect to its mandates. Its action to that end is not subject
to review upon this application.
The petition for the writ of habeas co us is
Dented.
MR.JusTICE FIELD did not hear the argument and took no
part in the consideration of this and the following cases.

In re RiSER, Petitioner,No. 16, Original In re TYLER, Petitioner,
No. 18, Original In re GAI-Es, Petitioner,No. 19, Original.
These cases were all argued with In re Tyler
172 to 180.

See ante, pages

