OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

frauds under the general issue. That might have been true,
if he had pleaded the general issue. -Yannady v -Lambert,37
Alabama, 57, Pollak v Brush -ElectrcAssociation, 128 U S.
446. But he did not plead it, and had the right to rely on
his special pleas only Alabama Code, § 2675.
The suggestion of counsel, that by the practice in Alabama
the entry of an afpearance of counsel for the defendant
was equivalent to filing a plea of the general issue, is too
novel to be accepted without proof, and seems inconsistent
with Grzgg v Gilmer, 54 Alabama, 425. If the record did not
show what the pleadings were, it might be presumed that the
general issue was pleaded. May v Sharp, 49 Alabama, 140,
Hatchett v Afolton, 76 Alabama, 410. But in this case twelve
pleas are set forth in the record, and it cannot be assumed that
there was any other.
The eighth plea was paynment. The defendant introduced
no evidence to support this plea, and has, therefore, no ground
of exception to the rulings and instruction at the trial of the
issue joined thereon.
But the erroneous ruling on the demurrer to the twelfth
plea requires the
Judgment to be reversed, and the cawe remanded to the Circust Courtforfurtherproceedings n conformity wt this
opnzon.

NIX v. HEDDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 137.

Submitted April 24, 1893.-

Decided May 10, 1893.

The court takes judicial notice of the ordinary meaning of all words in our
tongue; and dictionaries are admitted, not as evidence, but only as aids
to the memory and understanding of the court.
Tomatoes are "vegetables" and not "fruit," within the meaning of the
Tariff Act of March 3, 1883, c. 121.

NIX v. HEDDEN.
Statement of the Case.

Tis was an action, brought February 4, 1887, against the
collector of the port of New York, to recover back duties, paid
under protest, on tomatoes imported by the plaintiff from the
West Indies in the spring of 1886, which the collector assessed
under "Schedule G. -P rovisions," of the Tariff Act of March
3, 1883, c. 121, imposing a -duty on "Vegetables, in their
natural state, or in salt or brine, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act, ten per centum a4 valorem", and
which the plaintiffs contended came within the clause in the
free list of the same act, "Fruits, green, ripe or dried, not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act." 22 Stat.
504,-519.
At the trial, the plaintiff's counsel, after reading in evidence
definitions of the words "fruit' "and "vegetables" from Webster's Dictionary, Worcester's Dictionary and the Imperial
Dictionary, called two witnesses, who had been for thirty
years in the business of selling fruit and vegetables, and asked
them, after hearing these definitions, to say whether these
words had "any special meaning in trade or commerce, different from those read."
One of the witnesses answered as follows "Well, it does
not classify all things there, but they are correct as far as they
go. It does not take all kinds of fruit or vegetables, it takes
a portion of them. I think the words ' fruit - and ' vegetable '
have the same meaning in trade to-day that they had on March
1, 1883. I understand that the term ' fruit' is applied in trade
only to such plants or parts of plants as contain the seeds.
There are more vegetables than those in the enumeration
given in Webster's Dictionary under the term 'vegetable,' as
'cabbage, cauliflower, turnips, potatoes, peas, beans, and the
like,' probably covered by the words ' and the like."'
The other witness testified "I don't think the term 'fruit'
or the term 'vegetables' had, in March, 1883, and prior
thereto, any special meaning in trade and commerce in this
country, different from that which I have read here from the
dictionaries."
The plaintiff's counsel then read in.evidence from the same
dictionaries the definitions of the word "tomato."
voL. cxu-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant's counsel then read in evidence from Webster's Dictionary the definitions of the words "pea," "egg
plant," "cucumber," "squash" and "pepper."
The plaintiff then read in evidence from Webster's and
Worcester's dictionaries the definitions of "potato," "turnip,"
"C
parsnip," " cauliflower," " cabbage," " carrot " and "bean. "
No other evidence was offered by either party The court,
upon the defendant's motion, directed a verdict for him, which
was returned, and judgment rendered thereon. 39 Fed. Rep.
109. The plaintiffs duly excepted to the instruction, and sued
out this writ of error.
.fr Edwim B. Smtdh for plaintiff in error.
Af r Aesztant Attorney General _Maury for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The single question in this case is whether tomatoes, considered as provisions, are to be classed as "vegetables" or as
"fruit," within the meaning of the Tariff Act of 1883.
The only witnesses called at the trial testified that neither
"vegetables" nor " fru it" had any special meaning in trade
or commerce, different from that given in the dictionaries,
and that they had the same meaning in trade to-day that they
had in March, 1883.
The passages cited from the dictionaries define the word
"fruit" as the seed of plants, or that part of plants which contains the seed, and especially the juicy, pulpy products of
certain plants, covering and containing the seed. These definitions have no tendency to show that tomatoes are "fruit," as
distinguished from "vegetables," in common speech, or within
the meaning of the Tariff Act.
There being no evidence that the words " fruit" and "vegetables" have acquired any special meaning in trade or commerce, they must receive their ordinary meaning. Of that

NIX v. REDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

meaning the court is bound to take judicial notice, as it does
in regard to all words in our own tongue, and upon such a
question dictionaries are admitted, not as evidence, but only
as aids to the memory and understanding of the court. Bpown
v Pper,91 U. S. 31, 42; Jones v Unzted States, 137 U. S.
202, 216, NLreson v Cushsng, 2 Oush. 519, 532, 533, Page v.
-Falwcet,1 Leon. 242, Taylor on Evidence, (8th ed.) §§ 16, 21.
Botanically speaking, tomatoes are the fruit of a vine, just
as are cucumbers, squashes, beans and peas. But in the common language of the people, whether sellers or consumers of
provisions, all these are vegetables, which are grown in kitchen
gardens, and which, whether eaten cooked or raw, are, like
potatoes, carrots, parsnips, turnips, beets, cauliflower, cabbage,
celery and lettuce, usually served at dinner in, with or after
the soup, fish or meats which constitute the principal part of
the repast, and not, like fruits generally, as dessert.
The attempt to class tomatoes with fruit is not unlike a recent
attempt to class beans as seeds, of which Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for this court, said. "We do not see why they should
be classified as seeds, any more than walnuts should be so
classified. Both are seeds in the language of botany or
natural history, but not in commerce nor m common parlance.
On the other hand, in speaking generally of provisions, beans
may well be included under the term 'vegetables.' As an
article of food on our tables, whether baked or boiled, or forming the basis of soup, they are used as a vegetable, as well
when ripe as when green. This is the principal use to which
they are put. Beyond the common knowledge which we
have on this subject, very little evidence is necessary, or can
be produced." Robertson v. Salomon, 130 U S. 412, 414.

Judgment afwrmed.

