OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

California. Submitted April 21, 1893. Decided May 1, 1893.
BREWER, J
This case is so nearly like the case just decided, that
it is unnecessary to refer to the facts in detail. There also appears in this a further matter of error, in that the court, over the
objections of the government, permitted the defendants to introduce evidence that their mill was not profitable. Certainly,
whether they made money or not, does not affect the right of the
government to recover, or the measure of recovery
The judgment in this case will also be Reversed, and a new trial

ordered.
Mr Assistant Attorney General Parker for plaintiffs m error.
No appearance for defendants in error.

UNITED STATES v. DUMMAS.
ERROR

TO THE

CIRCUIT
EASTERN

No. 230.

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Submitted April 20,1893.-Decided May 1, 1893.

An order of the Postmaster General, made in the exercise of the discretion
given him by the act of June 17, 1878, 20 Stat. 140, c. 259, § 1, withholding commissions from a postmaster, and allowing a stated compensation

in place thereof, in consequence of alleged false returns in the postmaster's accounts, is not final and conclusive in an action by the United
States against the postmaster and the sureties on his bond, to recover
moneys alleged to be illegally withheld, but is competent evidence on
the part of the government, which may be explained or contradicted by
the defendants.
THIS

was an action brought by the United States to recover

from Anna M. Dumas, and the sureties on her official bond,

money alleged to have been illegally retained by her while
postmaster at Covington, St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana.
It appears from the record that Anna M4. Dumas was postmaster at the above-named place from January 1, 1881, to
August 3, 1885, and that on October 1, 1883, a bond, in lieu
of a former one, was executed. This bond was in the usual
form, and was given to insure the faithful performance of her

UNITED STATES v. DUMAS.
Statement of the Case.

duties as postmaster. The accounts rendered by her as postmaster at the end of each quarter were examined September
1, 1886, by the Auditor of the Treasury for the Post Office
Department. This examination resulted in a claim that she
had made false returns of the business done at the post office
at Covington, whereby she is alleged to have illegally retained
from the government the sum of $709.89 in excess of her commissions for the period from October 1, 1883, to August 3,
1885, the time covered by the conditions of the bond last executed. A statement of accounts, certified to by the Auditor,
to which is appended copies of papers pertaining to the accounts, is made a part of the record. A demand was made
on June 8, 1887, upon her, and the sureties on her bond, to
make good the deficit. Payment was not made, and the
Postmaster General issued the following order
"Order No. 161.]

PosT OFFICE DEPARTM-T,
OFFICE OF THE POSTMASTER GEIERAL,

D. 0., August 11th, 1888.
"Being satisfied that A. M. Dumas, late P M., Covington,
St. Tammany Co., La., has made false returns of business at
the post office at said place during the period from Jan. 1,1881,
to Aug. 3, 1885, thereby increasing her compensatlon beyond
the amount [s]he would justly have been entitled to have by
law, now, in the exercise of the discretion conferred by the
act of Congress entitled 'An act making appropriations for
the service of the Post Office Department for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1879, and for other purposes,' approved June
17, 1878, (section 1, chapter 259, Supplement to Revised
Statutes,) I hereby -withhold commissions on the returns aforesaid, and allow as compensation (in place of such commissions
and in addition to box-rents) deemed by me, under the circumstances, to be reasonable during the period aforesaid, the
rate of $72.50 per quarter from Jan. 1, 1881, to March 31,
1883, and $95 per quarter from April 1, 1883, to August 3,
1885, and the Auditor is requested to adjust her accounts
accordingly
(Signed)
Wm. F YrnAs,
"_Postmaster General."
WAsiHNTON,

OCTOBER TERM,- 1892.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

At the trial of the cause in the court below the issue before
the jury was whether Anna M. Dumas, as postmaster, did collect and receive in her official capacity from October 1, 1883,
to August 3, 1885, in excess of the compensation fixed and
allowed her in the order of the Postmaster General, and above
all proper expenditures, the sum of $709.89. On this issue the
plaintiffs in error requested the court to give the following
instruction to the jury"
"If the jury are satisfied that plaintiffs have proven that
the Postmaster General of the United States, being satisfied
that Anna M. Dumas, late postmaster at Covington, Louisiana, had made false returns of business in said post office,
withheld the commissions of said Anna lv[. Dumas, as such
postmaster, and allowed her such compensation, in lieu of
said commission, as he, the said Postmaster General, deemed
reasonable, and if the jury further find that the amount sued
for by plaintiffs in the cause is arrived at by reason of such
withholding of said commissions and by the allowance to her
of such compensation by said Postmaster General, then the
jury must find for the United States."
This instruction the court refused to give, and charged the
jury in regard to the order (No. 161) of the Postmaster General as follows "This order was in its nature provisional.
The adjustment is only primafacme evidence that the account
is as stated therein."
The jury found a verdict for the defendants and judgment
was entered accordingly The bill of exceptions does not
show the character of the evidence admitted or refused to be
admitted. The plaintiffs sued out a writ of error, and assign
as errors that the court below erred in refusing to instruct the
jury as requested by the attorney of the United States, and in
charging the jury as to the force and effect of the order of the
Postmaster General, and the accounts of the postmaster as
certified by the auditor.

_Mr Asswtant Attorney General . fury for plaintiffs in
error.

UNITED STATES v. DUMAS.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

It can hardly be denied that Congress had the power to
make the decision of the Postmaster General final and conclusive in cases like the present.
The argument of hardship has no relevancy, because every
postmaster must be conclusively presumed to have accepted
office with full knowledge of the laws and regulations which
he is expected to obey
Furthermore, a power of this kind in the Postmaster General is the same, in principle, as that vested in the architect,
in almost every building contract, for the purpose of securing
a speedy determination of questions that may arise between
the contracting parties during the execution of the contract.
If the power claimed for the Postmaster General, under the
act of 1878, were an isolated instance, a plausible argument
might be deduced therefrom to support the ruling below, that
Congress did not intend that anything done under the power
should be more than provisional, but the statutes show that
Congress does not hesitate to vest in executive officers summary power to make and execute decisions, without opportunity to show cause to the party to be affected, when the exigencies of the public service require prompt, decisive action.
By Rev Stat. § 3962, the Postmaster General is empowered
to make deductions from the pay of contractors "for failures
to perform service according to contract and impose fines upon
them for delinquencies," and where a contractor fails to perform a trip the Postmaster General may deduct from his pay
as much as three times the price of the trip "if the failure be
occasioned by the fault of the contractor or carrier."
By § 4010, the Postmaster General is authorized "to impose
fines on contractors for transporting the mail, between the
United States and any foreign country, for any unreasonable
and unnecessary delay" in the departure of such mail, or the
performance of the trip.
Without multiplying instances, reference may be made to
§ 3371 Rev Stat. which, as it originally stood, provided that,
where a manufacturer of tobacco, snuff, or cigars sold or removed for sale any such article without using the proper
stamps, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue might, at any

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

time within two years, "upon such information as he can obtain," assess the proper tax and certify the same to the collector.
Certainly, then, there is nothing more summary in the
power given by the act of 1878 than is contained in the instances above given, and it must be conceded that in those
instances Congress intended the execution of the powers to be
final and conclusive everywhere, in other words, that the fine
imposed on a mail contractor by the Postmaster General, for
delinquency, should be a valid charge in his accounts and that
no court should review this action. And the same may be
said of the collector's assessments under § 3371.
Congress, in like manner, intended that the action of the
Postmaster General, under the power in question, should be
binding on the courts as one of those "matters appertaining
to the postal service" which, being "left to the discretion and
judgment of the Postmaster General, the exercise of that
judgment and discretion cannot in general be interfered with
and the results following defeated." United States v Barlow,
132 U. S. 271, 280.
In a word, this case would seem to be governed by the
principle laid down by this court in Matin v Xott, 12 Wheat.
19, 31, namely, that "1whenever a statute gives a discretionary
power to any person, to be exercised by him upon his own
opinion of certain facts, it is a sound rule of construction that
the statute constitutes him the sole and exclusive judge of the
It is no answer that such a
existence of those facts.
power may be abused, for there is no power which is not
susceptible of abuse."
It would seem plain, therefore, that it was error in the
learned judge to refuse to give any effect whatever in this
case, to the order of the Postmaster General, and treat the
case of the United States as without evidence on which the
jury could act.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JusTrcE JACKsoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES v. DUMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

It is insisted for the government that the order of the Postmaster General and the certified transcript of the accounts,
which state the amount of the liability of Anna M. Dumas at
$709.89, are final and conclusive. If this proposition is correct, and the order and the transcript constitute conclusive
rather than _pma facme evidence of the balance due the
United States, then the instruction given was erroneous, and
that requested should have been given.
The order of the Postmaster General was made, as it recites, in the exercise of the discretion conferred by the first
section of the act of Congress approved June 17, 1878, 20 Stat.
140, c. 259, § 1, which provides "that in any case where the
Postmaster General shall be satisfied that a postmaster has
made a false return of business, it shall be within his discretion
to withhold commissions on such returns, and to allow any
compensation that under the circumstances he may deem reasonable." Now an order made in pursuance of this provision is
certainly not conclusive upon a postmaster that his returns of
business are actually false in fact, when by the same section of
the act it is made a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment or both, to make a false return to the Auditor
for the purpose of fraudulently increasing his compensation.
Neither can it be properly held that, when the Postmaster
General is satisfied that a postmaster has made a false return
of business, and exercises his discretion "to withhold commissions on such returns," his order in the matter is a final and
conclusive determination that the postmaster is not entitled to
any commissions as such, or that his compensation shall be
absolutely fixed and limited by the allowance made. In a suit
for his commissions or compensation, such an order withholding
the one, and making a discretionary allowance as to the other,
would certainly not conclude the postmaster. It was not the
intention of Congress by this provision of the statute to confer upon the Postmaster General the discretion to deprive a
postmaster of his commissions, or to vest him with authority
to deny all commissions, and allow only such compensation as
he might deem proper, as a final settlement and adjudication
of the postmaster's rights in the premises.

281

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

By a preceding clause of the same section, it is provided
"that when the compensation of any postmaster of this class
[4th] shall reach one thousand dollars per annum, exclusive of
commissions on money-order business, and when the returns
to the Auditor for four quarters shall show him to be entitled
to a compensation in excess of that amount under section seven
of the act of July twelfth, eighteen hundred and seventy-six,
the Auditor shall report such fact to the Postmaster General,
who shall assign him to his proper class and fix his salary as
provided by said section." A similar provision in the act of
March 3, 1883, was before this court in the case of the United
States v Wilson, 144 U S. 24, and it was held that a postmaster who is assigned by the Postmaster General to a particular class at a designated salary from a designated date was
entitled to compensation at the rate thus fixed from such date
without regard to his appointment by the President and
confirmation by the Senate. The action of the Postmaster
General in assigning a postmaster to his proper class and fixing his salary accordingly, under such provisions of the statute,
is essentially different from the exercise of the discretion conferred of withholding commissions on such returns as the Postmaster General may b satisfied are false. "To withhold"
commissions seems fairly to imply a temporary suspension,
rather than a total and final denial or rejection of the same.
If such withholding is not conclusive upon the postmaster, how
can the allowance made, while the commissions are being withheld, be treated or regarded as a final and conclusive adjudication as to the compensation the postmaster is, or shall be,
entitled to receive 2 The court below regarded the order in
question as provisional in its character, and accordingly held,
in substance, that it did not so conclusively fix and determine
the commissions and compensation of the postmaster as to
make the statement of her accounts based thereon conclusive
against her and her sureties.
The contrary proposition urged on behalf of the United
States involves the assertion that the falsity of the postmaster's
returns is actually and finally established by the order of the
Postmaster General, and that the accounts adjusted in accord-

UNITED STATES v. DUMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

auce therewith amount to more than przmafae evidence of
the correctness of the balance claimed to be due from the
defendants.
We think this contention of the government cannot be sustained, and that the ruling of the Circuit Court on the question
was correct.
As to the competency, merely, of this evidence there can be
no question, for it is provided by section 889, Revised Statutes,
that "in any civil suit in case of delinquency of any postmaster
or contractor, a statement of the account, certified as aforesaid,
shall be admitted in evidence, and the court shall be authorized
thereupon to give judgment and award execution, subject to
the provisions of law as to proceedings in such civil suits."
The force and effect of such testimony has been several times
considered by this court. Thus in United States v .Ekford' &
Executors, 1 How 250, a statement of account by the officers
of the Treasury was held not to be conclusive, but only prma,
faze evidence. So in United States v Hodge, 13 How 478, a
Treasury transcript offered in evidence was held to be competent, but not conclusive. In WatkAns v United States, 9 Wall.
759, nothing more appeared in the shape of evidence than the
certified transcript of accounts, and being held to be pmrn
facte evidence, it warranted judgment for the government for
the amount, therein shown to be due, in the absence of any
testimony explaining or contradicting it. But that case does
not hold that certified transcripts of accounts are conclusive
upon the officer. So m oule v Unsted States, 100 U S. 8, 11,
it was held that "Treasury settlements of the kind are only
prtmafacm evidence of the correctness of the balance certified,
but it is as competent for the accounting officers to correct
mistakes and to restate the balance as it is for a judge to change
his decree during the term in which it was entered. Errors
of computation against the United States are no more vested
rights in favor of sureties than in favor of the principal. All
such mistakes in cases like the present may be corrected by a
restatement of the account."
In the same line, it has been held by this court that the
adjustment of accounts made by the auditor is prma facze

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence, not only of the fact and the amount of the indebtedness, but also of the time when and the manner in which it
arose, and that an objection to the statement does not lie to
its competency, but to its effect. United States v. Stone, 106
U. S. 525.
It would be manifestly unjust to compel the principal and
sureties of a bond to pay an alleged indebtedness based upon
a statement of account, when there are palpable errors upon
the face of the statement, or when the defendants are prepared to show by affirmative evidence that there are in fact
errors in the accounts. As already stated, the bill of exceptions contains nothing to show the character of the evidence
introduced, by way of explanation or contradiction of the
certified transcript of accounts presented by the government.
The single question raised and presented by plaintiffs in error
was whether the order of the Postmaster General, m connection with the certified statement of account, was final and conclusive on the defendants in error. We hold that it was merely
evidence which, unexplained or uncontradicted, would have
warranted a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs in error for the
balance shown thereby to be due. But this evidence did not
conclude the defendants, and, for aught that appears from the
record, they may have explained or contradicted the statement,
or shown it to be incorrect, and as it does not appear what the
evidence was on this subject, we are unable to say that the
judgment was wrong, there being no error in the charge of
the court.
Nor is there anything said or decided in United States v
Barlow, 132 U S. 271, 280, cited and relied on by plaintiff in
error in conflict with this conclusion. In that case AJrr Justice
Field, speaking for the court, said "We admit that where
matters appertaining to the postal service are left to the discretion and judgment of the Postmaster General, the exercise
of that judgment and discretion cannot in general be interfered
with, and the results following defeated. But the very rule
supposes that information upon the matters upon which the
judgment and discretion are invoked is presented to the officer
for consideration, or knowledge respecting them is possessed

