122

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

CAIRO v. ZANE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 210. Argued April 13, 14, 1893. -Decided

April 24, 1893.

In accordance with a previous resolution of the city council of Cairo, Illinois, an election was duly held there on the 28th of May 1867 "for
the purpose of voting upon the question of the city's issuing $100,000 in
twenty-year bonds, drawing eight per cent interest, as a subscription to
the capital stock of the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad", and it was, by
a vote of 695 to 1, "declared to be the wish of the people that the said
sum of $100,000 be so subscribed." Such subscription was accordingly
made. In November following the railroad company and the city
further agreed that the railroad company should commence work within
six months and push it with dispatch; that the city should issue its
bonds to the amount of $50,000, when the road should be completed to
the boundary line between Alexanier and Pulaski Counties, and a like
amount when it should be completed to the boundary line between
Pulaski and Johnson Counties, and that each amount when issued should
be delivered to the railroad company in exchange for a like amount of
its stock, and that the city should, as each issue of stock was made,
sell it to the railroad company for the sum of $2500 in bonds of the city.
In July, 1871, an ordinance was passed authorizing this contract to be
carried out; and in December, 1872, the city, by its trustee, delivered to
the railroad company bonds to the amount of $100,000, the company
delivered to the trustee for the city certificates of stock to the like
amount and bonds of the city to the amount of $5000, and the trustee
thereupon transferred the certificates of stock to the company. The
mayor of the city then, on the 14th of December, 1872, reported to the
auditor of the State of Illinois an issue of bonds of the city to the amount
of $95,000 for subscriptions to the stock of the railroad company, and
the bonds were certified by the auditor as registered pursuant to the laws
of Illinois, " to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of
counties, townships, cities and towns." The bonds were sold by the
company and passed into the hands of innocent holders for value. The
city having failed to pay the coupons on said bonds as maturing, one of
the holders brought suit to recover the same. Held,
(1) That the executed agreement on the part of the city to subscribe
for stock, and on the part of the company to receive bonds in payment therefor, was not affected by the further act of the city in
parting with its stock to the company in consideration of a return
of a portion of the bonds, and that whatever wrong might have

CAIRO v. ZANE.
Statement of the Case.

(2)

(3)
(4)
(5)

been committed by the city council in the latter transaction, did
not vitiate the bonds issued under the former, after they had
passed into the hands of a bonafide holder;
That, as the statute of the State had provided for the registry of
municipal bonds in such cases and a certificate thereof, such certificate should be held to be sufficient evidence to a purchaser of
the existence of the facts, upon which alone the bonds could be
registered;
That the bonds were valid in the hands of a bonafide holder;
That under the laws of Illinois, governing the issue, the city had the
power to make the bonds payable in New York,
That under the settled rule in Illinois the coupons drew interest
after maturity.

ON August 3, 1883, defendant in error commenced suit m
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Illinois, on certain coupons attached to bonds
issued by the city of Cairo, plaintiff in error. After answer
had been filed a trial was had, which resulted m 0judgment
in favor of plaintiff for $8556.36. This judgment was entered
on February 27, 1888, and to reverse such judgment the city
sued out a writ of error from this court.
The facts as developed in the case are these On May 28,
1867, a resolution passed the city council of the city of Cairo,
ordering a special election "for the purpose of voting upon
the question of the city issuing $100,000 in twenty-year bonds,
drawing eight per cent interest, as a subscription to the
capital stock of the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad." An
election was duly had, at which 695 votes were cast in favor
of the subscription and one vote against. At a meeting of the
council on July 1 the vote was canvassed, and a motion
carried " that it be declared the wish of the people that the
said sum of $100,000 be so subscribed." On November 5,
1867, the journal of the proceedings of the city council
contains this record
"A proposition was received from the Cairo and Vincennes
Railroad Company proposing to purchase from the city of
Cairo the $100,000 capital stock of said company subscribed
by said city, accompanied by the following contract for
considerationviz.
"This contract, made and entered into by and between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

city of Cairo, Illinois, party of the first part, and the Cairo
and Vincennes Railroad Company, party of the second part,
witnesseth
"That whereas heretofore, to wit, on the first day of July,
1867, by a vote of the electors of the city of Cairo, Illinois, at
an election held m said city, the mayor and city council of
Cairo were authorized to make a subscription of one hundred
thousand dollars to the capital stock of the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad Company, and to pay for said stock in bonds
of the city of Cairo of the denomination of five hundred
dollars, with the bonds to run for twenty years and to bear
interest at the rate of eight per centum, payable half yearly,
on the first days of January and July of each year, in the
city of New York, said city of Cairo being required by the
laws of this State to issue instalments of said bonds from
time to time, as assessments may be made upon said stock by
said railroad company,
"And whereas the said railroad company proposes to
guarantee that work on said road shall be commenced at
Cairo within six months from the date of this contract, and
that the construction of the road-bed and laying the track
from Cairo northward shall be pushed with reasonable
dispatch, and also to release the city of Cairo from the obligation to issue any part of said bonds until said railroad shall
be built from Cairo to the boundary line between Alexander
and Pulaski Counties, and also to purchase of the city of
Cairo the stock to be issued to said city upon the delivering of
the city bonds aforesaid, it is therefore hereby stipulated and
agreed by and between the parties aforesaid as follows
"ARTICLE 1. The party of the second part agrees that work
on said road shall be commenced at Cairo within six months
of the date of this contract, and that the construction of the
road-bed and laying of the track from Cairo northward shall
be pushed with reasonable dispatch.
" ARTICLE 2. The party of the second part agrees that, instead
of the city of Cairo issuing bonds in payment for stock upon
assessments made from time to tne by said railroad company,
the city of Cairo shall issue fifty thousand dollars of bonds

CAIRO v. ZANE,
Statement of the Case.

and deliver the same to said company in payment for stock
when the track of said road shall have been laid to the boundary line between the counties of Alexander and Pulaski
and cars shall have run thereon, and the said city shall issue
fifty thousand dollars of bonds as aforesaid, and deliver the
same to said company in payment for stock when the track
of said company shall have been laid and cars shall have
run thereon from the city of Ca.iro through Pulaski County
to the boundary line between that county and Johnson
County, Illinois.
," ARTIcLE, 3. The party of the first part hereby agrees to

issue the fifty thousand dollars of bonds of the city of Cairo
in payment for fifty thousand dollars of stock of said Cairo
and Vincennes Railroad Company, and deliver said bonds to
said company whenever the railroad track of said company
shall be laid from Cairo to the boundary line between
Alexander and Pulaski Counties and cars shall have run
thereon, and also to issue fifty thousand dollars of said bonds
in payment for stock as aforesaid, and deliver the same to
said company whenever the railroad track of said company
shall have been laid from the city of Cairo to the boundary
line between Pulaski and Johnson Counties and cars shall
have run thereon.
"ARTICLE 4. And whereas the early construction of said
road is of vast importance to the city of Cairo, therefore, in
consideration of the stipulations made by the party of the
second part in articles first and second of this contract and in
consideration of the sum of five thousand dollars to be paid
by the said party of the second part as hereinafter stated, the
party of the first part hereby agrees to sell and transfer to
said party of the second part the one hundred thousand dollars stock of said railroad company to be issued to the city of
Cairo, Illinois, m payment for one hundred thousand city
bonds, at and for the sum of five thousand dollars, as follows
When fifty thousand dollars of the stock of said company shall
be issued to the city of Cairo, the party of the first part agrees
to transfer and assign the same to the party of the second part
on payment of twenty-five hundred dollars in Cairo city bonds,

OCTOBER TER,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

and when the fifty thousand dollars of the stock of said company shall be issued as aforesaid the party of the first part
agrees to transfer and assign the same to the party of the
second part on payment of twenty-five hundred dollars in
Cairo city bonds.
"Alderman Baker then offered the following resolution,
viz.
".Resolved, That the contract between the city of Cairo
and the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad Company this evening
laid before the city council by the president of said company
be, and the same is hereby, approved, ratified, and confirmed by
the city council of the city of Cairo, and that the proper city
officers be, and are hereby, authorized, empowered, and instructed to sign, seal, and execute said contract for and m
behalf of the city
"Alderman Vincent moved that said resolutions be adopted,
which motion was carrie by the following vote, viz.
"Ayes - Baker, Halliday, Hamilton, Lansden, IRedman,
Rittenhouse, Vincent and Webb.
" Nays - None."
On July 22, 1871, this ordinance was passed
"An ordinance to authorize the subscription of $100,000 to
* the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad Company, and for other
purposes.
"Whereas by an agreement entered into between the Cairo
and Vincennes Railroad Company and the city of Cairo, and
approved by the city council November 25, 1867, it is provided that the stock, amounting to $100,000, to be issued by
the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad Company to the city for
the subscription of that amount should be sold by the city
to the said company upon certain conditions as expressed in
said contract, and whereas it is understood that said company
are willing to extend the time for the issue of said bonds and
the commencement of the payment of interest on the same
Therefore,
" Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Cairo "SEC. 1. That the mayor of the city be, and is hereby,

CAIRO

v. ZANE.

Statement of the Case.

authorized and instructed to subscribe on behalf of the city of
Cairo to the capital stock of the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad
Company m the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, said
subscription to be payable in bonds of the city, as hereinafter
provided for, that the mayor, city clerk and city comptroller
be, and they are hereby, authorized and instructed to have
prepared and to sign and seal bonds of the city to the amount
of one hundred thousand dollars, to be issued to said railroad
company, said bonds to be in such sums as the said company
may desire, to bear interest at the rate of 8 per cent per
annum, and to be payable twenty years after the date thereof,
with coupons attached for the payment of the interest semiannually on the same, that the mayor is hereby authorized and
instructed to take charge of said bonds when prepared and
signed, sealed, and ready for delivery, and is authorized
and instructed to deliver the same to some responsible banking, loan or trust company, trustee or trustees, located or residing in the city of New York or elsewhere, as may be agreed
upon by him and said railroad company, said bonds to be held
by said banking, loan or trust company, trustee or trustees, in
escrow, and to deliver up to the said Cairo and Vincennes
IRailroad Company when the said Cairo and Vincennes railroad has been constructed, that is to say, has been put m
good ordinary running order from the city of Cairo, Illinois,
to the city of Vincennes, Indiana, and the cars shall have
run thereon, and not before, provided work on said road shall
be resumed by or before October 1st next, and said road shall
be fimshed by or before the first day of August, 1873, and
provided also that the interest accruing on said bonds
previous to their delivery to said railroad company shall not
enure to the benefit of said railroad company, but the coupons
for all accrued interest shall be detached from said.bonds
previous to their delivery to said railroad company, and be
returned to said city of Cairo, so that interest shall not be
paid or accrued to said railroad company before the time when
said company shall be entitled to receive said bonds according
to the condition herein expressed.
"SEc. 2. It shall be and it is hereby made the duty of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

banking, loan or trust company, or trustees which shall be
chosen or selected to hold such bonds, as hereinbefore provided, to deliver up the said bonds to said railroad company
upon the said company's issuing to said city and delivering to
said trustee one hundred thousand ($100,000) dollars of paid-up
stock in said railroad company, which said stock the said
trustee is hereby authorized and directed to sell to said railroad company for five thousand dollars ($5000) of Cairo city
bonds, so as thereby to carry out the provisions of the agreement entered into November 25, 1867, by and between said
city and railroad company
JOHN M. LAwsDEx, .Afayor
"Approved July 22, 1871.
"Attest Ml. J HOWLEY, Clerk."
On January 6, 1873, these proceedings were had
"The finance committee also reported that they had received from A. B. Safford, trustee, five bonds, numbered from
96 to 100, inclusive, for $1000 each, issued in favor of Cairo
and Vincennes Railroad Company, and also 100 coupons
detached from said bonds before being transferred to said
railroad company The committee reported that they had
destroyed said bonds by burning, and asked that their action
be approved.

"Alderman Safford moved that said report be received and
the action of the committee sanctioned. Carried.
"A communication was read from A. B. Safford, trustee,
stating that he had, on the 4th day of December, delivered to
the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad Company one hundred
thousand dollars in bonds of the city of Cairo, from which he
previously detached all the January, 1873, coupons, (subject to
the order of the city;) that in return he received from said
railroad company (a certificate) for one hundred thousand
dollars paid-up stock of said company, and in accordance with
the provisions of ordinance 119, approved July 22, 1871, he
had transferred said stock to said railroad company and
received from said company therefor five thousand dollars in
said bonds. Said trustee further stated in his communication
that as he had detached all the January 1, 1873, coupons, the

CAIRO v. ZANE.
Statement of the Case.

company is entitled to sixteen days' interest, amounting to
$337.82.
"Accompanying said commuication was a copy of a receipt
of Councilman Wood, chairman of the finance committee, for
said five thousand dollars in bonds and for said detached
coupons, a copy of a receipt of the Cairo and Vincennes
Railroad Company, by Edward F Winslow, attorney-m-fact,
for said one hundred thousand dollars in bonds, and also
a copy of a sworn certificate of E. F Winslow, of the firm of
Winslow & Wilson, and Charles 0. Wood to the effect that
on the 13th day of December, 1872, a through train passed
over the Cairo and Vincennes railroad from the city of Vincennes to the end of the track at Cairo."
On December 14, 1872, the mayor of the city furnished to
the auditor of the State of Illinois the following certificate
of registration
"Certicate of Registration.
"STATE

OF ILLINOIS, CouTY OF ALEXAADE..

" CITY OF CAmo, December 14th, 1872.
"To the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State of Ilinoss.
"Sm I hereby certify that the following-described bonds
are entitled to registration in your office under the provisions
of the act entitled 'An act to fund and provide for paying the
railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns,' in
force April 16, 1869, the bonds being numbered from No. 1 to
N o. 95, inclusive, for $1000 each, dated July 1st, 1872, and
payable July 1st, 1892, being in all 95 bonds and amounting
to $95,000 and bearing interest at the rate of eight per cent
per annum, payable semi-annually on the first days of January
and July These bonds are issued by the city of Cairo, in the
county of Alexander and State of Illinois, to the Cairo and
Vincennes Railroad Company, under and by authority of the
provisions of ' An act to incorporate the Cairo and Vincennes
Railroad Company,' approved March 6th, A. D.1867, and the
general act of the legislature of this State for subscriptions of
stock, etc., in railroad compames, approved November 6th, 1849,
and by a vote of the people of said city of Cairo at an election
VOL. CXLX-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

held on the first day of Juiy, A. D. 1867, and I, as the mayor
of said city of Cairo, do hereby certify that all the preliminary
conditions in the act 'in force April 16th, 1869,' required to
be done to authorize the registration of these bonds and to
entitle them to the benefits of said act last referred to have
been fully complied with, to the best of my knowledge and
belief.
"Jonwx X. LANSDEN,
"Mayor of the City of Cabro, -llinoe.
"Subscribed and sworn to by the said John M. Lansden,
mayor, etc., before me this 14th day of December, A. D. 1872.
H. H. CANDEE, Notary .Public."
" [SEAL.]
The bonds were, with the endorsements, in the follo-wmg
form
"Bond of City of Catro.
($1000.)
"(Number -. ) UNITED STATES OF AMERIcA.
"Bond of the City of Cairo, State of Illinois, issued in Payment of Stock in the Cairo and Yincennes Railroad Company.
"Know all men by these presents that the city of Cairo, in
the county of Alexander and State of Illinois, acknowledges
itself indebted and firmly bound to the Cairo and Vincennes
Railroad Company in the sum of one thousand dollars, which
sum the said city of Cairo promises to pay to the said Cairo
Company or bearer, at
and Vincennes Railroad
the National Bank of Coin- $1000 merce, in the city of New
July, 1892, together with
York, on the first day of
interest thereon from the first day of July, 1872, at the rate
of eight per cent per annum, which interest shall be payable
semi-annually on the first days of January and July iu each
year, on the presentation and delivery at said National Bank
of Commerce, New York, of the coupons of interest hereto
attached.
"This bond is issued in pursuance of an ordinance passed by
the city council of said city of Cairo and authorized by a vote
of the citizens of said city and in accordance with the laws of
the State of Illinois.

CAIRO v. ZAE.
Statement of the Case.

"In testimony whereof the said city of Cairo has executed
this bond by the mayor, city clerk, and city comptroller
thereof signing their names under the ordinance authorizing
the same and affixing the seal of said city, at said city of
Cairo, on the 1st day of July, A. D. 1872.
"J M. LANSDET, Xayor
"E. A. BuF-,Err, City Comptroller

"M. J HOWLEY, City ,0Crk.
"[City of Cairo Seal.]

"(Endorsement on above bond )
" AUDITO1'S OvIcE, ILLINOIs.

"I, Charles E. Lippincott, auditor of public accounts of the
State of Illinois, do hereby certify that the within bond has
been registered in this office this day, pursuant to the prosions of an act entitled ' An act to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities and towns,'
in force April 16, 1869.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name
and affixed the seal of my office the day and year aforesaid.
CC[SEAL.]

C. E. LrPImcorr, Auditor P A."

The coupons attached were in the ordinary form of such
instruments, being simply an acknowledgment of so much due
at a given date, for interest on the bond.
The statutes and constitutional provisions bearmg upon the
question are the following First. The act incorporating the
Cairo and Vincennes Railroad Company, passed March 6,1867,
(Private Laws of Illinois, 1867, vol. 2, p. 558,) the 10th section
of which authorized towns, cities, or counties, through or near
which the railroad should pass, to subscribe for and take stock
in the company, and issue bonds in payment for such stock of
five hundred dollars each, and required, as a condition of such
subscription, a majority of the legal votes cast at an election
held upon the question. Second. The general railroad law of
November 6, 1849, (Laws of Illinois, 1849, second session, p.
18,) authorizing cities and counties to subscribe for stock in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

railroad companies, and to pay for such stock in bonds.
Third. An act passed February 9, 1869, amending the act
incorporating the Cairo and Vincennes Railroad Company,
(vol. 3, Private Laws of Illinois, 1869, p. 259,) the third section of which is as follows
"S.c. 3. Be itfurther
enacted, That all contracts made by
towns, cities, and counties, into, through, or near which the
Cairo and Vincennes railroad shall run, whereby, as an inducement for the construction of said railroad, such towns, cities,
and counties agreed, upon the completion of certain portions
of said railroad, to sell to the said company, at a nominal
price, the stock of said company which such towns, cities, or
counties, by a vote of their electors, had theretofore subscribed and agreed to issue bonds in payment thereof, thereby
in effect agreeing to make a donation to said company of cer-:'
tam amounts of the bonds of such towns, cities, or counties,
as an inducement for the construction of said railroad, are
hereby declared to be valid and binding upon such towns,
cities, and counties, and shall be carried into effect, in good
faith, by the same, and all orders and notices of elections and
elections and returns of such elections in respect to such subscriptions of stock to said company, in any such towns, cities,
and counties, are hereby declared to be valid and binding
upon such towns, cities, and counties."
Fourth. An act approved April 6, 1869, to fund and provide
for paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities,
and towns. (Public Laws, Illinois, 1869, p. 316.) That act
authorized the registering of bonds by the state auditor.
Section '7 forbade the registry, unless the debt was authorized by a majority of the legal votes cast at an election duly
held and until the railroad aided had been completed, and
cars run thereon, and all conditions prescribed in the subscription had been fully complied with. It then continued as
follows "And the presiding judge of the county court, or
the supervisor of the township, or the chief executive officer of
the city or town, that shall have issued bonds to any railway
or railways, immediately upon the completion of the same
near to. into, or through such county, township, city, or town,

CAIRO v. ZAIE.
Statement of the Case.

as may have been agreed upon, and the running of the cars
thereon, shall certify under oath that all the preliminary conditions m this act required to be done to authorize the registration of such bonds, and to entitle them to the benefits of
this act, have been complied with, and shall transmit the same
to the state auditor, with a statement of the date, amount,
number, maturity, and rate of interest of such bonds, and to
what company and under what law issued, and thereupon the
said bonds shall be subject to registration by the state auditor
as is herembefore provided." Fifth. These sections of the
constitution of 1870
"No county, city or town, township, or other municipality
shall ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation to or loan its
credit in aid of such corporation Provded, however, That
the adoption of this article shall not be construed as affecting
the right of any such mumcipality to make such subscriptions
where the same have been authorized, under existing laws, by
a vote of the people of such municipalities prior to such adoption." 1 Charters and Constitutions, 491, 1 Starr & Curtis's
Stat. 167.
ARzoLE 9, SECoN 12.

"NVo county, city, township, school district, or other mumicipal corporation shall be allowed to become indebted m any
manner or for any purpose to an amount, including existing
indebtedness m the aggregate exceeding five per centum on
the value of the taxable property theren, to be ascertained by
the last assessment for state and county taxes, previous to the
incurring of such indebtedness. Any county, city, school district, or other municipal corporation incurring any indebtedness as aforesaid shall, before or at the time of doing so,
provide for the collection of a direct annual tax sufficient to
pay the interest on such debt as it falls due, and also to pay
and discharge the principal thereof within twenty years from
the time of contracting the same. This section shall not be
construed to prevent any county, city, township, school district, or other municipal corporation from issuing their bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in compliance with any vote of the people which may have
befn had prior to the adoption of this constitution in pursuance of any law providing therefor." 1 Charters and Constitutions, 486, 1 Starr & Curtis's Stat. 153.
SCHEDULE.

"That no inconvenience may arise from the alterations and
amendments made in the constitution of this State, and to
carry the same into complete effect, it is hereby ordamed and
declared
"SFoTio
1. That all laws m force at the adoption of this
constitution, not inconsistent therewith, and all rights, actions,
prosecutions, claims, and contracts of this State, individuals or
bodies corporate, shall continue to be as valid as if this constitution had not been adopted." 1 Charters and Constitutions,
492, 1 Starr and Curtis's Stat. 168.
2Jfr William B. Gilbert for plaintiff in error.
I. The Illinois Supreme Court and the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, by recent decisions,
since rendition of judgment below, have settled the questions
involved in this case in favor of defendant m error. Chotsser
v The People, 1:0 Illinois, 21, Post v Pulask, County, 9

U S. App. 1.
II. The contract of November 25, 1867, cannot be sustamed
as a valid existing contract, which the constitution of 1870
could not impair. Spangler v Jacoly, 14 Illinois, 297, S. a.
58 Am. Dec. 571, People v Stane, 35 Illinois, 121, Ryan v
Lynch, 68 Illinois, 160, ]Macoupin County v The People, 58
Illinois, 191, .Madison County v The People, 58 Illinois, 456.
III. The void contract of November 25, 1867, could not be,
and was not legalized by the amended charter. Chozsser v
The People and Post v Pulaskz County, above cited, .Zrarshall v Silliman, 61 Illinois, 218, Gaddis v. Richland County,
92 Illinois, 119, Tfilliams v The People, 132 Illinois, 574,
Barnes v 1 acon, 84 Illinois, 461, Elmwood v .M'arcy, 97
U S. 289, People v Chcago, 51 Illinois, 17, Lovngston v.
Wider,. 53 Illinois, 302.

CAIRO v. ZANE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

IV Neither the general law of 1849, nor the charter of the
railroad company if at all material, authorized issuance of any
bonds as a donation. The distinction between a subscription
and a donation is well understood and recognized in both lexicography and public parlance, as well as law Concord v.
Portsmouth ,Savmgs Bank, 92 U. S. 625, Schoeffer v. Bonham,
95 Illinois, 368.
V The bonds and coupons having been issued since the
adoption of the constitution of 1810, as a mere donation and
not as authorized under existing laws by any vote of the
people, were absolutely void for want of power to issue same.
Chowser v People and Post v Pulaskz Coity, above cited.
The authority to act at all depends upon the existence of the
requisite fact, as shown by the record, and not upon its ascertainment and determination by any one, and m consequence,
that all persons claiming under the exercise of such power
might be put to such proof of the fact made a condition of its
lawfulness, notwithstanding any recitals m the instrument.
D)son County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83, .Yorthern Bank of
Toledo v Porter TownshT, 110 U. S. 608, Icayes v. Holly
Strngs, 114 U. S. 120, KYatzenberger v Aberdeen, 121 U. S.
172, Concord v. Robinson, 121 U. S. 165, German Savings
Bank v Franklin County, 128 U. S. 526.
The unbroken line of decisions, admitting recitals in bonds
as estoppels, is based upon the principle that, "These recitals
are municipal decisions made by the appointedtribunal selected
by the legislature according to a true construction of the legislative enactment under wnch they acted, and are therefore
resjudicata." .Marcy v. Oswego, 92 U. S. 637, Commissioners
v. January, 94 U. S. 202, Commissioners v Bolle, 94 U. S.
104, Book Creek v. Strong, 96 U. S. 271, Buchanan v. Lthfield, 102 U. S. 278.
VI. The bonds not having been issued "in compliance
with" any vote of the people, and no tax provided for their
payment before or after their issuance, their issuance was m
violation of art. 9, see. 12, of constitution of 1870, and they
are void. Buchanan v. Litcfehld, 102 U. S. 278.
VII. The act approved April 16, 1869, does not aid the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

plaintiff on the question of recitals or validity German Savngs Bank v Franklin County, 128 U. S. 526, Dxon County
v Field, 111 U. S. 83, Crow v Oxford, 119 U. S. 215.
VIII. The city is not chargeable with interest on the
coupons after maturity in the absence of any agreement in the
coupons to pay interest. The local laws of Illinois forbid
such interest. .AMadison County v Bartlett, I Scammon, 67,
Pike County v iHosford,11 Illinois, 170, Pe in v Reynolds,
31 Illinois, 529, S. C. 83 Am. Dec. 244, Chicago v People, 56
Illinois, 334, South Park Comm'tsswners v. .Dunlevy, 91 Illinois, 49.
By the laws of Illinois, "cities and counties, unless specially
authorized by legislative enactment, have no power to make
their indebtedness payable at any other place than at their
treasury", and "the fact that a coupon is made payable in
New York or elsewhere than at the treasury of the county
issuing it, will not invalidate it, the objectionable words will
be regarded as surplusage." People v. Tazewell County, 22
Illinois, 147, Pekztn v Reynolds, 31 Illinois, 529, Sherlock v.
Winnetka, 68 Illinois, 530, Enfeld v Jordan, 119 U S. 680.
Even if the bonds and coupons had been lawfully made payable in New York, such bonds and couponis must still be
"deemed and considered as governed by the laws of the State
of Illinois," and "not be affected by the laws of the State or
country where the same shall be made payable," as specially
provided by the laws of Illinois in force when said bonds were
issued. Sess. Laws, 1857, p. 38.
By the "contract or loan" in this case, there was a contract
concerning interest, viz. 8 per cent on the amount of the bond
and nothing on the interest coupons, and although the bond
and interest coupons are made payable out of the State, yet
the case is plainly within the said provision of the law of
1857, and must be "governed by the laws of the State of
Illinois," and no interest allowed on coupons. To allow interest is to give bondholder something he knew the law did not
give him when he purchased his bonds.
. r George A. Sanders for defendant in error.

CAIRO v. ZANE.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JuSTO

BrEwFR, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is insisted that these bonds were void because, issued
after the restrictive provisions of the constitution of 1870 had
come into effect, they were in fact a mere donation, and the
only authority given by the people prior to the constitution of
1870 was to issue bonds in payment of a subscription. Tiis
contention cannot be sustained. There was a vote authorizing
a subscription. The bonds were issued by the city, and received
by the company in payment of a subscription, and stock for
an equal amount was issued by the company to the city It
is true the stock thus received was immediately thereafter
sold to the company for $5000 of the city bonds, a portion of
the bonds thus issued, and that this sale was m pursuance of an
agreement made by the city long prior to the execution of the
bonds. And it is urged that the form of the transaction must
be ignored, that the resultant fact is that the company has
$95,000 of the city bonds, and the city nothing; and that
thus substantially there was a donation of $95,000 of bonds.
But the result does not determine the true nature of the
transaction. The same result would have followed if the
city had given away the stock to a third party The fact is
that the city issued its $100,000 of bonds, and received its
$100,000 of stock, and the wrong, if any there were, on the
part of the council, was not in carrying out the subscription
as directed by the vote of the people, but m wrongfully disposing of the stock received. But surely a wrong m that
matter does not affect the question of the validity of the
bonds, nor can it be presented as a defence against one who
has purchased in good faith the bonds thus issued. In the
case of Andeeon County Commw&szoners v. Beal, 113 U. S.
227, it appeared that after bonds had been voted by the
county, at an election held on September 13, 1869, the county
board, on November 5, passed an order directing a subscription in accordance with the terms of the vote, and also "that
the stock above subscribed for by this board in behalf of
Anderson County is hereby sold and transferred, for and in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

consideration of the sum of one dollar, the receipt whereof is
hereby acknowledged, to James F Joy, president of said railroad company, and the chairman of this board is authorized
to sign a transfer of said stock to said James F Joy, and to
assign the certificate for said stock issued to Anderson County
by said railroad company, and to authorize in such assignment the necessary transfer of said stock on the books of
said company" And it was averred that this transfer thus
ordered was for the benefit of the railroad company In reference to this, Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking for the court,
observed (p. 240) "When the bonds were delivered to the
company the transaction was complete, and the bonds, as they
afterwards passed to bona, de holders, passed free from any
ipairment by reason of any dealing by the board with the
stock subscribed for to which the county became entitled by
the issuing and delivery of the bonds. The board may have
committed an improper act m parting with the stock, but
that is no concern of a bona ftde holder of the bonds or
coupons." And in Ataxcy v Williamson County, 72 Illinois,
207, it appeared, as here, that after an election authorizing a subscription of $100,000 to the stock of a railroad company the
county court entered into an agreement to sell the $100,000
of stock to the railroad company for $5000, a transaction, it
will be perceived, precisely like the one before us. The validity of the bonds thus issued in payment of this subscription
was thereafter challenged in a suit by taxpayers to resbrain the
collection of taxes levied to pay the interest thereon. Their
validity was sustained, and in respect to this transfer of the
stock the court, on p. 212, says "We fail to perceive how
the sale of the certificate of stock to the company for $5000
can in any manner affect the rights of the holders of the bonds
of the county It surely is not intended to be insisted that because the county has, by any means, lost the consideration it
received for the bonds, innocent holders, who had nothing whatever to do with the sale of the certificate, must lose their bonds."
It is said that a different rule has since been established in
Illinois, and the cases of Choisser v Te People, 140 Illinois,
21, and of Post v Pulaski County, decided by the Circuit

CAIRO v. * ZANE.
Opunon of the Court.

Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, 9 U. S. App. 1, are
cited. But even if tins were so, it was not established until
long after the plaintiff had purchased these bonds, and he
would doubtless be entitled to claim the benefit of the rule
existing when he made his purchase, and the facts as they
appear in these two cases are substantially unlike those in the
case before us. Thus, in Chotsser v The People, the vote to
subscribe $100,000 of stock was on October 5, 1867, and on
November 28 following, an agreement was entered into
between the company and the county court, acting on behalf
of the county, that $100,000 in stock should be issued, but
that the stock should be returned back to the company for
the sum of $5000, payable on the redelivery to the city of
that amount of county bonds. When the bonds came to be
issued, the record made by the county court recited that the
$100,000 of the capital stock should be sold back to the company for $5000 of county bonds, "thereby making a payment
of $95,000 of Saline County bonds to said company as a
donation." And no stock was in fact issued by the company,
or received by the county, and only $95,000 of bonds were
issued by the county, or delivered to the company In short,
the parties to the transaction treated it as though it was a
donation of $95,000 of bonds, and it was this transaction
which was condemned as unauthorized by a vote prior to the
constitution. Yet, even in that case, the court was careful to
limit its decision to a case in which only the rights of the
railroad company, the party receiving this $95,000 of )bonds,
were concerned, for it says "The only presumption arising
from these facts is that said bonds are still in the hands of the
railroad company, and no question, therefore, is presented as
to how far the alleged invalidity of said bonds would be
affected by those conclusive presumptions which the law raises
for the protection of bona fide holders of commercial paper.
Nothing is before us except the mere question of the
legality of these bonds, as between the county and the railroad company, the original parties thereto." And the case in
the Circuit Court of Appeals is simply a counterpart of the
case in the Supreme Court.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

But the case before us is entirely different. The parties did
not treat it as a donation. The city issued the full amount of
$100,000 m bonds, and the company issued a certificate for
$100,000 of stock, and until the receipt of this certificate, no
sale had been made of it. All that the record shows was an
agreement on the part of the city to sell at a named price.
Nowhere is it shown that the company agreed absolutely to
purchase. It was, until after the receipt of the stock, an
unaccepted offer on the part of the city No contract was
signed by the company All we have are the recitals of the
record of the city Of course, such recitals do not bind the
company Thus, on November 5, 1867, it is said that a
proposition was received from the company to purchase the
stock. What that proposition was is not disclosed. It is
stated that it is accompamed by a contract, tendered to the
city for consideration, which contract also recites that the
company proposes to purchase. That contract nowhere binds
the company to purchase, but does bind the city to sell on
payment of $5000 in Cairo city bonds. So in the proceedings
of July 21, 1871, while there is a recital of the making of an
agreement for the sale of the stock, yet such recital did not
bind the company, and if the contract referred to was that
copied into the record of November, 1867, it contained
nothing binding the company And the second section of the
ordinance then passed (the first section having provided for
placing the bonds m escrow) made it the duty of the trustee
holding these bonds in escrow to deliver them to the company
upon its issuing to the city, and delivering to him, $100,000
of its paid-up stock, and then authorized and directed hin to
sell such stock to the company for $5000 of Cairo city bonds.
But nowhere in this or any other of the ordinances or agreements in evidence is there any pronse on the part of the
company to take $95,000 in city bonds, and release the city
from all obligations growing out of the subscription. On the
contrary, so far as is disclosed, when the trustee delivered the
$100,000 in bonds and received the $100,000 in stock, there
was nothing casting any obligation on the company to
repurchase its stock, or to return to the city any portion of

CAIRO v. ZANE.
Opinon of the Court.

the bonds. The city had offered to sell, but it had not agreed
It could have stopped with the receipt of the
to buy
$100,000 of bonds, and left the city to do what it pleased with
the stock.
There is, therefore, not presented the case of an ignoring of
the fact or terms of a subscription. Everything authorized
by the vote of the people was done, and fully done, and
whatever wrong may have been committed by the city council in its proffer of sale and subsequent sale of the stock could
not vitiate the bonds after they had passed into the hands of
a honaftde holder.
But, further The bonds on their face show that they were
issued in payment of stock in the railroad company, and recite
that they were issued in pursuance of an ordinance of the city
council, and authorized by a vote of the citizens, and in
accordance with the laws of the State, and they were duly
registered by the auditor of the State, and his certificate of
registry was endorsed on the back. It is true that the recitals
do not show when the ordinance was passed, or the election
held, and do not refer by title or otherwise to the particular
statute granting the authority, and the bonds were dated and
issued after the constitution of 1870 had come into force. It
is also true that the certificate of registry is not conclusive
that the bonds were issued in full compliance with the terms
and conditions of a subscription. German Savings Banko v
Franklin County, 128 UJ. S. 526, 540.
But surely these recitals and this certificate have significance. It is unnecessary to affirm that the certificates are
so "clear and unambiguous," SohooZ Dtstrzct v Stone, 106 U. S.
183, 181. as to estop the city from showing that the bonds
were issued in violation or without authority of law, or that
they, in conjunction with the certificate, foreclose all possible
defences. But when the law of the State provides for registry
of muicipal bonds and a certificate thereof, such certificate
should be held as sufficient evidence to a purchaser of the
existence of those facts upon which alone bonds can be
registered. If the plaintiff in this case, not resting upon the
mere terms of the certificate, had examined the records of the

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

auditor's office, he would have found there the certificate,
under oath, of the mayor of the city, of the election, its date,
and facts necessary to warrant the issue of the bonds, such
officer being the one named in the statute as the one to furnish
to the auditor the evidence necessary to justify the registry
Can it be that a purchaser, with this evidence before hum, is
not protected by the statement upon the face of the bonds
that they were issued in payment of a subscription 2 Is it his
duty to examine all the proceedings, to see whether that which
was a subscription in the first instance, was called a subscription all the way through, and was named as a subscription in
the bonds, had not been transformed by some action of the
city council into a donation 2 It will be borne in mind that it
is not a matter of law, but of fact, in respect to which an
estoppel is urged against the city by virtue of the recitals and
the fact of registry But it is unnecessary to pursue this line
of thought further. We are of opinion that the bonds were
properly held valid in the hands of a bonajide holder.
It is finally objected that the court erred in allowing
interest on the coupons. They were made payable in New
York, and as such drew interest according to the laws of New
York. Panav. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529, 546, Walnut v Wade,
103 U. S. 683, 696. Counsel, not questioning the fact that
such have been the frequent rulings, insists that in this case,
as found by the court, the bonds were issued under the law of
1849, that that does not authorize specifically the issue of
bonds payable outside of the State, that in People v Tazewell County, 22 Illinois, 147, it was decided that "counties and
municipal corporations, unless specially authorized by legislative enactment, have no power to make their indebtedness
payable at any other place than at their treasury," a decision
reaffirmed in Johnson v County of Stark, 24 Illinois, 75, 91,
and adhered to in Sherlock v Winnetcca, 68 Illinois, 530.
We do not understand the findings of the court in the manner claimed. The finding is simply that the bonds are of the
denomination of $1000 each, as authorized under and by the
law of 1849, and not of the denomination of $500 each, as
required by the charter of the railroad company But there

CAIRO v. ZANE.
Opinon of the Court.

is nothing in the natre of things preventing the city from
exercising all the powers -conferred by two or more acts, where
the acts do not involve in and of themselves substantial contradictions. I[t is not a vital matter whether the bonds should
be of $500.or $1000 each, and as the charter of the railroad
company expressly authorized the issue of bonds payable in
the city of New York, we see no reason why such stipulation
could not be incorporated into a bond of the denomination of
$1000, and the certificate of the mayor to the auditor is that
the bonds were issued under the authority of both acts.
Knox County v. ]riVnth NationalBank, 147 U. S. 91. Indeed,
counsel refers to the law of 1857, (Public Laws of Illinois,
1857, p. 38,) which provides that "where any contract or loan
shall be made m this State
it shall and may be lawful
to make the amount of principal and interest of such contract
or loan payable in any other State or Territory of the United
States." If that statute is applicable, then of course it is
nmnaterial whether the bonds were issued under the general
railroad law, or the act incorporating the railroad company
But it is unnecessary to consider this question at length. The
settled rule m Illinois is, that coupons draw interest after
maturity Earper v Ely, 70 Illinois, 581, 586, Humph1reys
v. Morton, 100 Illinois, 592, -Drury v. TfWofe, 134 Illinois,
294, 297, United States Mortgage Co. v. Sverry, 138 U. S.
313, 340.
These are the only matters that we deem essential to consider. We see no error in the conclusions reached, and the
judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Mm. JusTcIO

GRAY did not hear the argument and takes no

part in the decision of tins case.

