NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. WHALEN.

157

Statement of the Case.

practice, which she indicated she intended to follow, brought
about the collision.
The Servia maintained her position close to the New York
shore, she proceeded slowly, she observed the Noordland
closely, she stopped her engines when at a safe distance to
enable the Noordland to check her own sternway, and she
reversed her engines when the sternway of the Noordland
indicated risk of collision.
She was thwarted in her
manoeuvres by the faults committed by the loordland. It
was not incumbent upon the Servia to take any other precautions than she did, and she did nothing to bring on the
risk of collision.
The other exceptions taken on the part of the Koordland
are either inmaterial or have been sufficiently remarked upon.
-Decreeaffimed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WHALEN.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY

OF

WASHINGTON.

No. 156. Submitted March 22, 1893. - Decided April 24, 1893.
A railroad corporation cannot, by the general principles of equity jurisprudence, or by the provisions of the Code of Washington Territory, maintain a suit for an injunction, as for a nuisance, against the keepers of
saloons near the line of its road, at which its workmen buy intoxicating
liquors and get so drunk as to be unfit for work.

THIS was an action, in the nature of a bill in equity to
restrain a nuisance, commenced December 17, 1887, in a court
of Kittitass County in the Territory of Washington, by the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company against the three county
commissioners of that county, twenty-one persons constituting
ten partnerships, and twenty-eight other persons, by a complaint alleging as follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

That the plaintiff was a corporation created by an act of
Congress of July 2, 1864, to construct a railroad from Lake
Superior to Puget Sound, and was constructing its railroad
and a tunnel through and over the Cascade Mlountains and at
the village of Tunnel City, and had there four thousand
employes engaged in constructing its road, and such construction made it necessary to use high explosives, such as dynamite,
and machinery run by electricity, steam and compressed air,
which required sober, skilled labor.
That the defendants, except the county commissioners, at
and near Tunnel City, and along the line of the railroad so
being constructed by the plaintiff, "for several months last
past, have been running retail drinking and lager-beer saloons,
and selling spirituous, malt and fermented liquors to the said
employes of said plaintiff, and that the said sales of said
liquors to said employes have frequently and continuously
caused drunkenness of said employes; and that the said
drunkenness incapacitated the said employes, so that they
were not able to perform the labor assigned to them, and the
labor they were expected to do and for which they were employed, and that the said drunkenness increased the risk and
danger incident to the necessary use of the said explosives and
machinery, and increased the danger to the employeq employed
in constructing the road as aforesaid, and to the officers and
agents of said plaintiff, and has caused and is causing many of
said employes to quit their said employment on account thereof."
That "during the four months last past the said railroad
company has employed and transported, in and upon said
work at and near Tunnel City, in Kittitass County, about
eight thousand men, at an average expense of ten dollars for
each man, that about four thousand of said men so employed,
for the reason aforesaid, quit and left the work of said plaintiff", and that the plaintiff, by reason of such sales of liquors
to its employes, had been prevented from obtaining and retaining enough employes to complete its road as far as Tacoma
during the present year, and would be obliged to continue the
work during the coming winter, and at an increased expense
of more than $100,000.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. WHALEN.

159

Statement of the Case.

That "said saloons have been so conducted, and drunkenness and gambling permitted and carried on to such an extent,
that they, the said saloons, have been for months and are now
public nuisances, and also a private nuisance in so far as the
said plaintiff is concerned, that the superintendents, officers
and families thereof are seriously discommoded, discomfited,
injured and annoyed by said nuisance, and that said lives of
the officers, agents and employes have been endangered, and
the said property of the said plaintiff has been diminished and
injured in value, in consequence of said sales of liquors and
drunkenness caused thereby, and that the said plaintiff, by
said saloons and the sale of intoxicating liquors therein to
saiid employes, and said drunkenness and said gambling, has
sustained great and irreparable injury"
That "said saloons and the said beer halls have been and are
now running, and selling at retail said intoxicating liquors as
aforesaid to employes of the plaintiff and others, without a
license, and without any right or authority so to do."
That "said saloons during the past have, and will in the
future, unless enjoined, continuously and constantly continue
to sell said intoxicating liquors to said employes, and constantly and continually permit said drunkenness, and maintain
said gambling houses and said public and said private nuisances,
to the great injury, danger, discomfiture and annoyance of the
said plaintiff and the said plaintiff's employes and the said
property of plaintiff."
That the saloons aforesaid were on unsurveyed lands, owned
one half by the plaintiff and the other half by the United
States, and were run and maintained under licenses issued by
the county commissioners without right or authority, that the
other defendants intended to apply, and were now fraudulently applying, to the county commissioners for licenses to
sell intoxicating liquors at retail, without filing the consent of
the owners of the lands, as required by law, that the county
commissioners, knowing this, intended to grant such licenses,
and that "the granting of said licenses will greatly complicate
said matters, and injure and damage said plaintiff, and will
deprive plaintiff to a great extent, if not absolutely, of any

OCTOBER TERAi£, 1892.
Argument for Appellants.

remedy against said defendants, and cause the plaintiff great
and irreparable damage."
That the defendants were insolvent and unable to respond
in damages, that the plaintiff had no adequate remedy at law;
and that the granting of an injunction would avoid a great
multiplicity of suits.
Wherefore the plaintiff prayed for an injunction to restrain
the county commissioners from granting to the other defendants licenses to retail spirituous, malt and fermented liquors,
and to restrain the other defendants from selling such liquors
at retail, and from running and maintaining the saloons and
nuisances aforesaid, and for general relief.
The defendants demurred to the complaint, as not stating
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The demurrer
was sustained, and judgment rendered for the defendant.
The plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which affirmed the judgment. 3 Wash. Ter. 452. The plaintiff thereupon, on March 7, 1889, appealed to this court.
Mr James MeNaught, Mr A. f. Garland and
May for appellant.

r H. J

The allegations in the bill bring the cause withincthe definition of nuisance, both at common law and under the Code of
Washington Territory These nuisances are shown to be continuous. It is admitted that the appellees are insolvent. All
this affords good reason for an appeal to a court of equity
These nuisances were both public and private in their character, inasmuch as they were an annoyance to, and an interference with, both private and public rights and interests.
Code Wash. Ter., §§ 1235, 1243, 1247, Meyer v State, 12
Vroom, (41 IN.J Law,) 6. See also c. 50 of this Code, which
regulates the proceedings in civil actions for damages, and
other remedies. From these provisions it will be seen that it
recogmizes nuisances both as defined by the common law and
by the statute. The statutory remedies were cumulative, but
were like those given by the common law and in equity
The particular nuisances complained of were the result of

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. WHALEN.

161

Opinion of the Court.

the sale of intoxicating liquors, and of the maintenance of
gambling houses. A right of action is given by the Code to
any one who may be injured by the sale of intoxicating liquors.
§§ 2059-2061. These sections may fairly be regarded as =
pam mafera,with the other sections already referred to. By
fair construction of § 2059 of the Code, the remedy here
sought is given, but §§ 605, 606, providing for an action for
damages and for other and further relief, and for a writ of
injunction when an action at law is inadequate, when considered in connection with § 2059, place this beyond controversy
And further, it is well settled in general equity jurisprudence,
that such jurisdiction exists to prevent a multiplicity of suits,
to prevent the continuance of a wrong which cannot be remedied at law, and where the defendants are insolvent and
unable to respond in compensation for damages. Story Eq.
Jur. §§ 920, 923, 925, 927.
No appearance for appellees.
M . JusTIcE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The lNorthern Pacific Railroad Company asks for an injunction against the county commissioners and the other defendants, because the latter, under pretended licenses from the
former, keep and maintain gambling and drinking -saloons at
the village of Tunnel City and along the line of the plaintiff's
railroad, and there sell intoxicating liqi
at retail t9 the
plaintiff's employes, and thereby make them drunimkd_unifit
torork unr
'eir-several contracts with the plaintiff, and
tus increase the danger to its-agent and employes from the
use of the machinery and explosives required in constructing
its railroad, cause many of the employes to quit its employment, delay and increase the expense of constructing its
railroad, seriously annoy its agents and their families, and
consequently diminish the value of the plaintiff's property
It is not alleged that the defendants have conspired or
intend to injure the plaintiff's property or business, or to
VOL. CxLIX-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

prevent the plaintiff's workmen from performing their contracts of service. Nor is it alleged that any one of the saloons
kept by the several defendants is a disorderly house, which,
by reason of noises in or about it, or otherwise, is a nuisance
to property in the neighborhood. (The whole complaint is
based upon the theory that by the general principles of equity
jurisprudence, and by the provisions of the Code of Washington Territory, the saloons kept by the defendants severally
are, by reason of the sales of intoxicating liquors therein to
the plaintiff's workmen, and their consequent drunkenness and
incapacity to work, public nuisances, and cause special damage
to the plaintiff, to prevent the repetition and continuance of
which it is entitled to an injunction)
But the usual, and at the suit of a corporation the only,
ground on which, independently of express statute, a court of
equity will grant an injunction in a private action for a nuisauce is special injury to the plaintiff's property 3 Bl. Com.
216, Rob nson v Iilvert,41 Ch. D. 88, Georgetown v Alexandrca Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91, 99. (igo employer has such a.property in his workmen, or in their services, that he can, under
the ordinary jurisdiction of a court of chancery, maintain a suit,
as for a nuisance, against the keeper of a house at which they
voluntarily buy intoxicating liquors, and thereby get so drunk
as to be unfit for work)
Nor is there anything in the provisions of the Code of the
Territory, cited in behalf of the plaintiff, which enlarges the
equitable jurisdiction in this respect.
By that code, a nuisance, other than the obstruction of a
highway, or of navigable or running waters, is defined to be
"whatever is injurious to health, or indecent or offensive to
the senses, or an obstacle to the free use of property, so as to
essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of the
life and property", and again, "unlawfully doing an act, or
omitting to perform a duty, which act or omission either
annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others, offends decency, or in any way renders other
persons insecure in life, or in the use of property", "the remedies against a public nuisance are indictment or civil action

INORTHEIRN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. WHA-LEN.

163

Opinion of the Court.

or abatement", and an action for damages may be brought,
and an injunction or abatement obtained, "by any person
whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal
enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance." Secs. 605, 606, 1235,
1242. As a corporation cannot be said to have life or health
or senses, the only ground on which it can obtain either
damages or an injunction, under these provisions, is injury to
its property
The code further provides, in section 1247, that all houses
of ill fame, "all public houses or places of resort where
gambling is carried on or permitted, all houses or places
within any city, town or village, or upon any public road or
highway, where drinking, gambling, fighting or breaches of
the peace are carried on or permitted", and all opium dens,
are nuisances, and may be abated, and the owners or keepers
thereof punished. This section is aimed at nuisances which
affect the public morals or the public peace, and affords no
countenance for a private action, unless by an owner of property,
the use or enjoyment of which is specially affected by the
existence of such a nuisance in its immediate neighborhood.
United States v Columbus, 5 Cranch C. 0. 304, _lleyer v
State, 12 Vroom, (41 N. J Law,) 6, Hamilton v. Thitrtdge,
11 M aryland, 128, Inchbald v Robznson, L. R. 4 Oh. 388.
The Code of Washington Territory contains no enactment,
such as exists in some States, declaring all houses or tenements
kept for the unlawful sale of intoxicating liquors to be common
nuisances, and conferring jurisdiction in equity to restrain them
by injunction, at the suit of the district attorney or of a private
citizen.
The plaintiff relies on section 2059, which provides that
"any husband, wife, child, parent, guardian, employe[r 2], or
other person who shall be injured in person or property, or
means of support, by any intoxicated person, or in consequence
of the intoxication, habitual or otherwise, of any person, shall
have a right of action in his or her own name, severally or
jointly, against any person or persons who shall, by selling or
giving intoxicating liquors, have caused the intoxication in
whole, or in part, of such person," as well as against the owner

