WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

327

Syllabus.

-Decreesreversed, and cases remanded to the Circuit Court,
'with directions to dismtss the billfor sjpeczftc performance,
and to overrule the jlea to the other bill, and order the
defendant to answer it.
MR. JUSTICE BREwER dissented.

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD AND ST. LOUIS
RAILROAD COMPANY
AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v. WADE.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILINOIS.
Nos. 247,248.

Submitted April 21,1893.-

Decided May 10, 1893.

The "after-acquired property" clause in a railroad mortgage covers not
only legal acquisitions, but also all equitable rights and interests subsequently acquired either by or for the railroad company, the mortgagor.
Where negotiable paper has been put in circulation, and there is no infirmity or defence between the antecedent parties thereto, a purchaser of
such securities is entitled to recover thereon, as against the maker, the
whole amount, irrespective of what he may have paid therefor.
A railroad company contracted with a construction company to build and
complete its railroad on a line designated on a map of the same, and to
furnish and equip it, agreeing to pay for the samein stock and mortgage
bonds, to be issued from time to time as sections should be completed. A
mortgage was made of the road and property then existing and afterwards to be acquired. The construction company began work and completed a small section, for which it received the stipulated pay in stock and
bonds. It parted with the latter for a good consideration, and they
eventually came by purchase into the possession of W No further
section was completed, but work was done at various points on the line,
and the construction company acquired for the railroad company rights
of way through nearly or quite the entire route. Subsequently another
railroad company acquired these properties through the construction
company, and completed the road. Held, that W., being a bona fide holder
of the bonds secured by the first mortgage, who had purchased the bonds
in good faith, had through the mortgage a prior lien on the whole line

V

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
for the full amount of the face of his bonds, which was not affected by
the fact that the new company acquired its rights and property not directly from the first company, but through intervening conveyances.

THrE

case is stated m the opinion.

J.r Frederzk N Judson, .Mr Chzrles S. Tausszg and .Afr
Samuel P TVkeeler for Wade and Hopkins, Trustees, appellants in No. 247 and appellees mnNo. 248.
.M Adzan H Joine for Pratt, Trustee, the Mercantile
Trust Company and the Central Trust Company, appellees m
No. 247, and for PrattTrustee, appellant in No. 248.
M .JusTIcE JAcxsoN delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants, Belle N. B. Wade and Warner M. Hopkins,
testamentary trustees of the estate of Robert B. Wade, as
holders of fifty first-mortgage bonds of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, on January 27, 1887,
filed their bill in the United States Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Illinois, for the purpose of enforcing a
mortgage lien upon the property and railway of said company,
extending from Springfield, Illinois, to East St. Louis, Illinois.
The material facts of the case, as set out in the bill and as
disclosed by the record, are as follows
The Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company
was incorporated January 17, 1883, under the general laws of
Illinois, to build and operate a proposed line of railroad from
Springfield to East St. Louis in that State. After surveying
the route and designating the same on a map filed in the office
of the company, and after securing certain rights of way on
the line of the road, on March 3, 1883, it entered into a contract with the Empire Construction Company, of which one
Wing was president and sole stockholder, to build, finish, and
equip the proposed railway of the Chicago, Springfield and St.
Louis Railroad Company within a stipulated time. The contract provided as follows
"These articles of agreement made and entered into this

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

329

Opunon of the Court.

third day of :Maroh A. D. 1883, by and between the Empire
Construction Company, a corporation of the State of Illinois,
party of the, first part, and the Chicago, Springfield and St.
Louis Railroad Company, a railroad corporation of the same
State, party of the second part, witnesseth.
"That for and in consideration of the covenants and payments hereinafter recited to be made by said party of the
second part, said party of the first part, hereby for itself, its
successors and assigns, covenants and agrees to furnish all the
material and labor necessary to construct, iron, bridge, and
complete the railroad of said party of the second part, as now
surveyed and designated on a map filed in the office of the
party of the second part, which railroad commences at a point
on the Gilman and Clinton branch of the Illinois Central
Railroad at the city of Springfield, and extends by way of
Litchfield and Mount Olive to the bridge junction at East
St. Louis, Illinois, a distance of about niety-eight (98) miles,
passing through the towns of Pawnee, Litchfield, Mount Olive,
Alhambra, Marine, Troy, and Collinsville, with four and onehalf (4-) miles of side track, (necessary to the places marked
on said map for the business of the line at the time of the
opening,) and to furnish the said railroad with depots, water
tanks, and turn-tables, and to equip the same with engines
and cars as hereinafter provided.
" The road and side tracks hereby agreed to be constructed
are those on said map marked and specified only, and said
map is hereby referred to for further particulars in this
behalf, and the said road and side tracks are to be built in
manner and according to the specifications and conditions
following, and the bridges, depots, water tanks, turn-tables,
engines, and cars are to be those only also hereinafter mentioned in the specifications."
Certain specifications were made a part of the contract, but
they need not be recited.
In consideration of the premises and of the undertakings of
the construction company thus set forth, the railroad company
agreed to pay therefor, m its negotiable bonds to be issued
thereafter, the amount of $2,500,000, and $990,000 of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

capital stock fully paid and non-assessable. The bonds were
to be secured by a trust deed or mortgage in proper form and
duly executed by the company upon all its property, real or
personal, owned by it or afterwards acquired, including its
franchises of every kind. The construction company, its
successors or assigns, were to receive from the trustee twentyfive bonds to the amount of $25,000, and eighty shares of
capital stock of the value of $8000, as each mile of the road
was constructed and completed, and on the chief engineer's
certificate obtained therefor.
The contract further provided that the construction company, its successors or assigns, for the purpose of construction,
should have the right to the full and free possession, use, and
control of said railway, equipment, and property of the railroad company, as constructed, made or furnished under the
agreement, or otherwise obtained, together with the right to
use and operate said railway in the name of the railroad company under its franchises necessary thereto, for the transportation of persons and property, until the final and ultimate
completion and acceptance of said railroad, without charge
therefor by the railroad company, and also at its own cost
keep said railroad in good repair and condition, ordinary wear
and tear excepted.
The contract further provided that if at any time a change
of the route of the said road was necessary to be made, it was
agreed that the same might be done on certificate of the chief
engineer and approval of the president of the construction
company, and thereupon all of the terms and conditions of
the contract as to said modified route were to be the same as
agreed in respect to the route then specified on the map.
In pursuance of this contract, and under proper authority of
law, by vote of the stockholders of the railroad company, its
board of directors was authorized to issue bonds of the company in the sum of $2,500,000, to pay for the building of the
road, and to execute to the Central Trust Company of New
York a mortgage upon all the properties and franchises, which
were particularly described in the mortgage, as follows
"All and singular the several pieces or parcels of land

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

831

Opinon of the Court.

forming the track or roadway of said railroad company from
a point on the Gilman and Clinton branch of the Illinois
Central railway at the city of Springfield and extending by
way of Litchfield and Mt. Olive to the bridge junction at
East St. Louis, Illinois, a distance of about ninety-eight miles,
passing through the towns of Crow's Mills, Pawnee, White
Oak, Litchfield, Mt. Olive, Alhambra, Nervine, Troy, and Collinsville, and being in or through the counties of Sangamon,
Montgomery, Macoupin, Madison, and St. Clair, whether the
same is now acquired and owned by said railroad company or
may be hereafter acquired and owned by said company, also
the railroad of said .party of the first part and any and all its
branches thereof, and any and all switches and turnouts
thereof, together with all the rails, bridges, depots, stations,
station-houses, section-houses, fences, and other structures and
appurtenances thereto belonging now owned by said railroad
company, or that may hereafter be constructed, completed,
finished, acquired, or owned by said company, also, all the
tolls, income, issues, and profits and alienable franchises of
said party of the first part, connected with its railroad or
relating thereto, including its rights and franchises as a corporation, and also, all and singular the property of every
kind hereinafter mentioned, whether now owned or that may
hereafter be acquired and owned by said railroad company,
that is to say, all the rolling stock of every description, all the
machine shops, car shops, and blacksmith shops, all the
machinery, stationary engines, and all articles used in the construction, replacing, and repairing thereof, together with all
the tools and materials, and any and all other property now
owned or hereafter to be acquired by said party of the first
part."
This mortgage was duly executed and properly recorded
near that date in the several counties through which the railroad was located and was to be constructed. The bonds
secured thereby were 2500 in nunber, of the denomination of
$1000 each, redeemable in gold May 1, 1913, with interestbearing coupons attached, payable semiannually at the
American Exchange National Bank, New York. These bonds

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

were delivered to the trustee, to be by it delivered to the construction company in amounts of $25,000, on the certificate of
the engineer of the railroad company as each mile of the road
was completed, under and in accordance with the terms of
the contract of the construction company with the railroad
company And in addition to the bonds to be thus delivered
eighty shares of non-assessable stock of the railroad company,
at the par value of $8000, were to be delivered to the construction company upon the same conditions.
The construction company under, and in pursuance of, this
contract commenced the construction of the railroad, and in
July, or early in August, 1883, had completed two miles of
the road, and thereafter, in October, 1883, received from the
Central Trust Company, upon certificate of the chief engineer
of that fact, fifty of the mortgage bonds.
These bonds, so received by the construction company, were
deposited on November 5, 1883, by Wing, the representative
of said company, with a trustee as collateral security to secure the payment of the sum of $35,000, evidenced by the note
of said Wing, and endorsed by Robert B. Wade for the accommodation of Wing and the said construction company By
the terms of the pledge of these bonds the trustee was authorized, upon the failure of Wing or the construction company, to
pay said note at maturity, to sell said bonds, which sale it was
agreed might be made without notice to Wing or to the construction company, and by express terms Wade was to have
the same power or privilege of purchasing at said sale as any
other person. Demand was made upon Wing at the maturity
of the note to pay the same, which he failed to do, and thereupon the trustee holding the collateral, on due notice of time,
place, and terms of sale, sold the bonds. They were purchased
by the testamentary trustees of Wade, he having died in the
meantime, for the sum of $20,000, which amount was credited
upon a judgment on the note, previously confessed by Wing,
and the balance of the indebtedness was subsequently collected
by process of law Under this purchase the appellants became
the holders of the bonds.
These bonds, amounting to $50,000, were all that were ever

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

333

Opinion of the Court.

actually issued under the above-described mortgage of the
Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, for
while the construction company graded considerable portions
of the road, and acquirgd for the railroad company rights of
way throughout a large part, if not the entire route, it failed
to complete any other mile or miles of the road so as to become
entitled to additional bonds.
In April, 1885, the railroad company becoming satisfied that
the construction company was unable to execute its contract,
or would fail to perform the same, the stockholders authorized
its board of directors to "1make such arrangements with said
company or other parties as will secure the construction of
this road and preserve the rights of all parties interested, and
that they be authorized to modify or change said contract or
make a new contract with the Empire Construction Company if they think necessary to secure the building of this
road, maintaining the legal rights of all parties concerned,
and upon the surrender of all outstanding bonds said directors may satisfy the present mortgage, and issue new bonds
and secure same by mortgage on the property and franchises
of this road."
Acting under this authority the railroad company on April
29, 1885, entered into a new contract with the construction
company, which need not, however, be specially noticed, as it
was vacated and cancelled on -May 23, 1885, in compliance
with the request of said construction company
Wing, who was the chief promoter of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, and the sole stockholder
and owner of the Empire Construction Company, after suspending operations under the contract of the latter with the
railroad company, organized and caused to be incorporated on
May 19, 1885, the St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company
This company was incorporated to construct a railroad from
Litchfield to Springfield in Illinois on the line of the Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, and on May 26,
1885, a few days after the organization of the new company
and after the construction company had been released from its
contract with the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, the said construction company by Wing, as its
president, conveyed and transferred to H. H. Cooley & Company, a firm composed of a brother and a brother-in-law of
Wing, for the consideration of $142,015.11 the followingdescribed property All right of way acquired by the Empire
Construction Company for the Chicago, Springfield and St.
Louis Railroad Company between Litchfield, Illinois, and
Springfield, Illinois, estimated, as per voucher, to be of the
value of $4785.40, all cross-ties between Litchfield and Springfield, Illinois, on the side (site) of survey made for the Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, estimated, per
voucher, to be of the value of $2546, all embankments, excavations, trestle-work, tiling, and all other work done in the
building and construction of a railroad on the line of survey
between Litchfield and Springfield, Illinois, done and constructed by the Empire Construction Company, estimated, per
voucher, to be of the value of $72,131.22, all contracts for
right of way guaranteed the Empire Construction Company
for the Chicago-Springfield Railroad Company, estimated, per
voucher, at the sum of $19,000, all right of way contracted
for the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company
by the Empire Construction Company, estimated, per voucher,
at the sum of $12,000, all right of way in Litchfield acquired
by the Empire Construction Company for the right of way
for the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company,
estimated to be of the value of $10,000, all engineering services and engineering in tile construction, location, surveys,
estimates, and superintendence of construction in the work done
between Litchfield and Springfield, Illinois, estimated, as per
voucher, at $4672.93, all estimates, rights, and advantages
accrued to the Empire Construction Company by reason of
any contract heretofore existing, and all rights in the Empire
Construction Company resulting from work done, material
furnished, money expended, and included in the term "miscellaneous," as per vouchers, $16,876.56, all surveys, contracts,
profiles, books, and all property belonging to the Empire
Construction Company, except that of like nature as above
enumerated, on the line of the Chicago, Springfield and St.

WADE v. CHIOAGO, SPINGFIELD &c. IRAILROAD.

835

Opmlon of the Court.

Louis :Railroad Company south of the line of the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company
This conveyance was duly recorded m -Montgomery County,
Illinois, May 27, 1885. On the same day the above conveyance was executed, H. H. Cooley & Company, by deed, duly
recorded in Montgomery County, Illinois, transferred the same
property to the St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company in
consideration of one dollar, and of a contract entered into
that day by H. H. Cooley & Company with the St. Louis and
Chicago Railway Company to build a line of railroad north
from Litchfield to Springfield, a distance of about forty-five
miles. This road was completed in 1886 on the same line
substantially as that surveyed for the Chicago, Springfield
and St. Louis Railroad Company, and described in the conveyance of the Empire Construction Company to H. H. Cooley
& Company The St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company,
on July 1, 1885, executed a mortgage to the Mercantile Trust
Company of New York to secure an issue of its bonds to the
amount of $500,000, which bonds were put in circulation and
are outstanding. The mortgage securing the bonds was duly
recorded m each of the counties through which the said railroad extended.
It further appears from the record, and the findings of fact
in the decree of the court below, that, on June 12, 1886, the
Empire Construction Company conveyed to the said firm of
H. B. Cooley & Company, for the express consideration of
$5000, all the real estate and personal property, rights, and
easements acquired by said construction company for the
Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company south
of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railway, and between Litchfield and Alhambra, Illinois, over the line surveyed, and on
the rights of way acquired, for the Chicago, Springfield and
St. Louis Railroad Company, together with all embankments,
excavations, trestle-work, and all other work done in the building and construction of a railroad on the line of said Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company south of Litchfield, and on the same date, June 12, 1886, the firm of Cooley
& Company, for the express consideration of $75,000, conveyed

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

the same property and rights to the Litchfield and St. Louis
Railway Company, which the said Wing and associates also
organized and incorporated, under the laws of Illinois, for the
purpose of completing the road of the Chicago, Springfield
and St. Lonis Railroad Company between Litchfield and East
St. Louis. This line was constructed between Litchfield and
Mount Olive, a distance of about ten miles, but the new corporation appropriated the rights acquired for the Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company between Litchfield and Alhambra. The Litchfield and St. Louis Railway
Company executed a mortgage to the Central Trust Company
of iNew York for the purpose of securing $200,000 of bonds.
It is claimed by the complainants that this mortgage was cancelled and discharged, but that does not distinctly appear
from the record, and is not deemed material in the view we
take of the case.
The Central Trust Company, as trustee of the mortgage
of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company,
executed in 1883, and also as trustee of the mortgage of the
Litchfield and St. Louis Railway Company, executed in 1886,
when applied to by the complainants, declined to institute
foreclosure proceedings upon the first mortgage, and thereupon the complainants filed their bill making the three abovedescribed railroad companies and the trustees of the mortgages
executed by them, respectively, defendants to the bill. The
complainants claim that, under the foregoing facts, the fifty
bonds held by them are a lien upon the entire line originally
surveyed, and partially constructed, for the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, by whom said bonds
were issued, and that said company had made default in the
payment of the same, and the interest coupons thereto attached, which matured May 1, 1884, and all interest coupons
maturing since that date.
The bill was answered by the three railroad companies, viz.,
the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, the
St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company, and the Litchfield
and St. Louis Railway Company Each of the companies
admitted in its separate answer the execution of the various

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

337

Opinion of the Court.

mortgages, that complainants were the holders of the fifty
mortgage bonds issued by the Chicago, Springfield and St.
Louis Railroad Company, that said company had made
default in the payment of the bonds and coupons as stated in
the bill, and that said railroad company was insolvent, but
they each denied that any of the insolvent company's property was in the possession of the other defendants.
The Central Trust Company, in its answer, admitted that

the complainants had applied to it to file a bill to foreclose
the mortgage made by the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis
Railroad Company, and that it had refused to do so, and declared its purpose of resigning its trusteeship under both of
the mortgages aforesaid, that before the actual commencement of this suit it resigned its trusteeship under each of these
mortgages, and that the reasons for so doing were that it was
advised by counsel that, owing to its trust relation to holders
of bonds secured by each mortgage, it ought not to take part
on behalf of one or the other in any controversy between
such bondholders, and that the rights of the complainants
could be fully protected in any suit or suits brought by said
complainants in their own names.
The answer of the Mercantile Trust Company admitted the
execution of the mortgage to it of the St. Louis and Chicago
Railway Company, but denied that it accepted the trust
therein with notice and subject to the prior rights of the complainants as holders of the fifty bonds of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, and as to other
allegations of the bill it answered that it had no knowledge or
information.
Proofs were taken upon the issues thus made, and the court
below, on August 5, 1889, rendered its decision in the premises,
dismissing the bill as to the St. Louis and Chicago Railway
Company, and its trustee, the Mercantile Trust Company, and
ordered and adjudged that the defendant, the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, or some one in its behalf, pay to the complainants, within ninety days, the sum of
$22,976.59, being the said sum of $20,000 for which said bonds
were bid off by complainants, and six per cent interest thereon
VOL. Cxrix-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

until paid, with costs of the suit to be taxed, and that in default of said payment all the right, title, interest, and equity
of redemption of said Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, and of the Litchfield and St. Louis Railway
Company, and the St. Lous and Chicago Railway Company,
m and to that portion of the property described in said mortgage, and lying south of the Indianapolis and St. Louis railroad, originally surveyed and laid out for the Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, (which is specially described,) be sold by a special master without any equity
of redemption, and that out of the proceeds of said sales, after
the payment of costs and expenses attending the execution of
the decree, the complainants be paid the amount decreed,
with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent from the date
of the decree.
After this decree was passed, the American Loan and Trust
Company made application to intervene in the case as a
trustee under a mortgage made April 1, 1887, by the St. Louis
and Chicago Railway Company to secure bonds to the
amount of $1,100,000, which the intervenor claimed was a
lien on that portion of the railroad line and property south of
Litchfield, on which the decision of the court below had
awarded a lien to the complainants. This application of the
American Loan and Trust Company was allowed, and by
order of the court it was "made a defendant to this cause,
with all rights of exceptions, appeal and the prosecution of
writs of error, the said American Loan and Trust Company
hereby entering its appearance and adopting and accepting
the answer of the defendant, the Chicago, Springfield and
St. Louis Railroad Company, as its answer herein, and agreeing that the replication to said answer heretofore filed shall
stand as the replication to said answer as adopted by said
American Loan and Trust Company, and it being further provided that this order shall not make it necessary to retake
any of the evidence in this cause or to set aside any interlocutory proceedings or orders heretofore had or entered
therein."
It appears from the proof that pending complainants' suit

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

339

Opinion of the Court.

the St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company had, in some
way, acquired or been consolidated with the Litchfield and
St. Louis Railway Company, and that the mortgage to the
American Loan and Trust Company covered the whole line,
both north and south of Litchfield.
The complainants appeal from so much of the decree of the
Circuit Court as denied them a recovery upon the entire issue
of bonds held by them - $50,000 and interest -and in denying them a prior lien upon the entire line of railroad, described
in the bill as extending from Springfield to East St. Louis,
and the American Loan and Trust Company appeal from so
much of the decree as awarded complainants a lien for
$22,976.59 on the Litchfield and St. Louis branch of the road,
lying south of Litchfield. These constitute, in substance, the
errors assigned by the respective appellants. The corporate
existence of the American Loan and Trust Company having
terminated during the pendency of these appeals, Dallas B.
Pratt was substituted as trustee, and, by order of this court,
has become a party to the record in place of his predecessor
in the trust.
The testimony clearly establishes that the completed road
south of Litchfield to Mount Olive was the same road surveyed,
located and mapped for the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis
Railroad Company, which was located over the right of way
acquired partly by the railroad company and partly by the
construction company, under contract, for the railroad company The court below found, as the proof clearly establishes,
that "the Litchfield and St. Louis Railway Company took
possession of the said uncompleted line of railroad and mingled other work and material therewith, and, upon a survey
made and in accordance with plats and profiles thereto made
for the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company,
did complete a line of railroad from Litchfield to Mount Olive,
Illinois, and did also appropriate the rights acquired by and
for the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company
between fount Olive and Alhambra, Illinois."
It is further established by the proof that the 'defendant, the
St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company, built and constructed

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Cort.

its road a distance of about eighteen miles on that portion of
the line of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis railroad
north of Litchfield, on the surveyed route and located line,
and upon rights of way which had been theretofore acquired
by and for the latter road. The rest of the line of the St. Louis
and Chicago railway to Springfield, while slightly divergent
from the line of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis railroad, was substantially the same, so that there is no practical
difference between those portions of the line, either north or
south of Litchfield.
It is further clearly established by the recitals in the conveyances made by the Empire Construction Company to H. H.
Cooley & Company, and from said firm to the St. Louis and
Chicago Railway Company, and to the Litchfield and St.
Louis Railway Company - all of which conveyances were
duly recorded - that the newly-organizedrailway companies,
ith full notice of the
fre--d
and their mortgages
righ-ts, properties, and interests which the Chicago, Springfield
and-8-Clouis -Railroad Com-any had in, to, and -er the lines
of road which the newly-organized roads completed under
their contracts with Cooley & Company, as the successors or
assignees of the Empire Construction Company
It is clear, therefore, that the St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company and the Litchfield and St. Louis Railway Company must be held to occupy, in respect to the complainants,
the same position which H. H. Cooley & Company and the
Empire Construction Company would have occupied if the
roads in question had been completed by either of them without the organization or incorporation of the two railroad companies which now claim and assert title to said lines of railway Being charged with full notice and knowledge of the
fact that the lines which they were completing belonged to
the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, and
with the further notice that that company had issued and put
in circulation for value $50,000 in bonds, secured by its mortgage of 1883, they must be held to have acquired and to hold
their rights in said lines in subordination to the rights of complainants. It may be true that all the rights of way, ease-

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

341

Opinion of the Court.

ments, embankments, and appurtenances which the Empire
Construction Company acquired for the Chicago, Springfield
and St. Louis Railroad Company under the contract between
those parties did not invest that railroad company with a perfect legal title thereto, but it cannot be questioned that all
the rights thus acquired conferred upon or gave to the Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company an equitable title
and interest therein which would be covered by the "afteracquired clause" of its mortgage, and that the construction
company had no right to transfer such interests over to third
parties, especially as against the bonds in question, which the
railroad company had issued for value, and the construction
company had put in circulation.
The "after-acquired clause" in the-mortgage of the Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, under the decisions of this court, covers all acquisitions made to that property by either the construction company or others acquiring
rights under it. Dunham v Cincznnat, Peru &o. Railway
Co., 1 Wall. 254, Galveston Railroad v Cowdrey, 11 Wall.
459, Porter v Bessemer Steel Co., 122 U. S. 26, Toledo &c.
Railroad v aamilton, 134 U. S. 296, Central Trust Co. v
IYneeland, 138 U. S.414. In this latter case it was held that
the "after-acquired property clause" of a mortgage will cover
not only legal acquisitions, but all equitable rights and interests subsequently acquired by or for the mortgagor.
If the two newly-organized corporations, which have appropriated the line of road, rights of way, and easements of the
Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company, had
taken their transfers directly from the latter, it would admit
of no question that the lien of complainants' bonds would extend over the whole line, and this result is not, and cannot
be, changed by the fact that they have acquired their rights
through the intervention and conveyances of the Empire Construction Company to Cooley & Company, and by that firm to
the newly-organized companies, as those conveyances, together
with the mortgage of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis
Railroad Company, put them in full notice of the rights of the
latter company, and also of the rights of its mortgagee. Joy
v St. Lous, 138 U S.1.

OCTOBER TERATi,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

It cannot be assumed, therefore, that the St. Louis and
Chicago and the Litchfield and St. Louis Railway Companies,
or their mortgagees, are such bona fide transferees or purchasers for value of the partially constructed Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis railroad as to cut off the rights of
bondholders secured by the prior mortgage of the latter
company Their acquisitions of the rights and interests of
the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company
have in no way displaced the lien of complainants' mortgage,
which had previously attached, not only to all of said partially
constructed road, but to all accessions which might be made
thereto, either by the mortgagor or others succeeding to its
rights.
Under the facts in this case the newly-organized railway
companies are in legal effect the successors of the Chicago,
Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company cum onere, and
the mortgage lien held by the complainants upon the franchises and all property acquired in completing their mortgagor's railroad between the original termini, whether by
itself or its successors, remains in full force, it follows, therefore, that the decree of the court below was erroneous in
limiting the complainants to a lien on that portion of the road
lying south of Litchfield, completed in the name of the Litchfield and St. Louis Railway Company The same principles
and consideration which entitle the complainants to a lien on
that portion of the road lying south of Litchfield apply with
equal force to the line lying north of Litchfield, and under the
facts of the case, as already stated, they should have had their
lien declared upon that portion of the railroad north as well
as south of Litchfield. The complainants' lien has a clear and
undoubted priority over the lien of the mortgage executed by
the St. Louis and Chicago Railway Company to the American
Loan and Trust Company on April 1, 1887, as that mortgage
was executed 2endente lite after the filing of complainants'
bill herein.
The remaining question to be considered is whether complainants are entitled to a decree for the full amount of their
bonds and interest, instead of the price they paid therefor

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

343

Opinion of the Court.

when the bonds were sold under pledge made by Wing, president of the construction company The pleadings do not raise
the question as to whether complainants were entitled to the
full amount of their bonds. There was no issue presented on
that question, and it was not proper, therefore, on the proof,
even if the proof had warranted it, to have reduced the complainants' claim to the amount which they paid for the bonds
when sold under the pledge thereof. The bonds were valid
securities in the hands of the trustee for the protection of
Wade as accommodation endorser for Wing, or the construction
company, by whom they were pledged, and the pledgee or
purchaser thereunder succeeded to the rights of the pledgor,
and upon no principle could such purchaser, as against the
maker, be restricted to what he might pay for the bonds.
Negotiable securities once put in circulation for value may be N
transferred for less than their face, but the maker and those
claiming under him cannot limit the right of a subsequent
holder to a recovery of what he may have paid therefor.
In the case of (J¥omwell v Cowdty of Sao, 96 U S. 51,
60, in which it was held that the holder of such negotiable
securities, regularly issued, is not limited to the amount which
he may have paid therefor, it is said by the court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Field "We are of opimon that a purchaser
of a negotiable security before maturity, in cases where he
is not personally chargeable with fraud, is entitled to recover
its full amount against its maker, though he may have paid
less than its par value, whatever may have been its original
infirmity We are aware of numerous decisions in conflict
with this view of the law, but we think the sounder rule,
and one in consonance with the common understanding
and usage of commerce, is that the purchaser, at whatever
price, takes the benefit of the entire obligation of the maker.
Public securities, and those of private corporations, are constantly fluctuating in price in the market, one day being above
par and the next below it, and often passing within short
periods from one-half of their nominal to their full value. Indeed, all sales of such securities are made with reference to
prices current in the market, and not with reference to their

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

par value. It would introduce, therefore, inconceivable confusion if bona file purchasers in the market were restricted in
their claims upon such securities to the sums they had paid
for them."
The same general principle is held in Fowler v Storkland,
10'T Mass. 552, Moore v Baird, 30 Penn. St. 138, Bange v
Flint, 25 Wisconsin, 544, Bank of .lichigan v Green, 33
Iowa, 140, Baily v Smttl, 14 Ohio St. 396. By the decisive
weight of authority in this country, where negotiable paper
has been put in circulation, and there is no infirmity or
defence between the antecedent parties thereto, a purchaser
of such securities isentitled to recover thereon, as against the
maker, the whole amount irrespective of what he may have
paid therefor.
This was the position occupied by the complainants in
respect to the bonds in question, which were regularly issued
for value, and constituted bona fide debts against the mortgagor in the hands of Wade, or of the construction company
before they were pledged. The testimony in respect to that
pledge and the price at which the complainants purchased the
bonds was objected to as incompetent, and it should have bee
excluded on two grounds first, because there was nothing in
the pleadings to warrant its introduction, and secondly,
because nothing disclosed thereby authorized the scaling of
the bonds, as was done by the decree. We are, therefore, of
opinion that the decree was wrong in limiting complainants'
right of recovery to the amount, and interest thereon, for
-which
they purchased the bonds.
It is urged on behalf of Pratt that the principal of the bonds
was not due, but in becoming a party to the cause the
American Loan and Trust Company (to whose rights Pratt
has succeeded) was required to adopt, and did adopt, the
answer of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad
Company, which admitted by its answer that it was in default
in the payment of the bonds, and a similar admission was
made by the St. Lois and Chicago Railway Company, under
whose mortgage said trustee claims his rights were acquired.
But aside from this, it is by no means certain, under the terms

WADE v. CHICAGO, SPRINGFIELD &c. RAILROAD.

345

Opinon of the Court.

of the Chicago, Springfield and St. Louis Railroad Company's
mortgage, that the complainants did not have the right to
foreclose, both for principal and for interest on their bonds.
This mortgage contained the provision "that upon default
made in the payment of either interest or principal upon any
one hundred of seid bonds for the period of sixty days, then
each and all of said bonds shall become absolutely due at the
option of the majority in interest of the holders of said one
hundred bonds in default, and upon decree rendered as aforesaid, judgment shall be made for the whole of said indebtedness
thus due upon default of the part of said indebtedness as if all
were absolutely due according to the terms of said bond." It
was further provided that in the event of a sale the proceeds
thereof, after defraying expenses incident thereto, should be
applied in paying the several holders of the then outstanding
bonds and coupons, secured by the mortgage, the amount of
principal and interest, which might be due and unpaid, and in
case of a deficiency in the fund to pay the same in full, then
to distribute the fund pro rata among such holders. But the
defendants having admitted that the bonds were in default,
we do not feel disposed, in view of the fact that $50,000 constituted the entire issue, to reverse or modify the decree on the
doubtful point as to whether the principal of the bonds under
the terms of the mortgage could properly be treated as due.
Our conclusion is that there is no error in the decree of the
Circuit Court of which the American Loan and Trust Company, or its successor, Pratt, can complain, and further, that
the dpcree of the Circuit Court was erroneous in not allowing
the complainants the full amount of their bonds, and in not
declaring said bonds a lien upon the entire line of completed
road from Springfield to Mount Olive.
The decree ss accordingly reversed m th-is respect, and tite
cause remanded to the Circutt Court with directions to
enter a decree = conformity with this opmon, and st 's
accordingly so ordered.
MR. JusTicE FIELD did not sit in this case, and took no part

in its decision.

