CASES ADJUDGED
ne

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

CHICAGO, MILWA1JXEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. HOYT.
ERROR TO THE Cm urr comET OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 180. Argued March 30, 1893.-Decided April 17, 1893.
When the record contains special findings of fact, but no bill of exceptions,
the errors of law relied upon by a plaintiff in error must be considered
and determined upon the findings.
If a contracting party absolutely binds himself to perform things which
subsequently become impossible of performance, or to pay damages for
the nonperformance thereof, and the thing which causes the impossibility
might have been foreseen and guarded against in the contract, or arose
from the act or default of the promisor, he will be held to the strict
performance of his contract; but if the cause of the impossibility be of
such a character that it cannot reasonably be supposed to have been in
the contemplation of the contracting parties when the contract was
made, he will not be held bound by general words, which, though large
enough to include it, were not used with reference to the possibility of
the particular contingency which afterwards happened.
A railway company and several individuals entered into a contract for the
construction of a grain-elevator by the latter, wherein the company
agreed "that the total amount of grain received at said elevators shall be
at least five million bushels on an average for each year during the term
of this lease; and in case it shall fall short of that amount the said party
VOL. C=
-1
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
of the first part agrees to pay to the said party of the second part one
cent per bushel on the amount of such deficiency, settlements to be made
at the close of each year; and whenever it shall appear at the close of
any year that the total of grain received during so much of the term
of this lease as shall then have elapsed does not amount to an average
of five million bushels for each year, the party of the first part shall pay
to the parties of the second part one cent per bushel for the amount of
such deficiency; but, in case it shall afterwards appear that the total
amount received up to that time equals or exceeds the average amount
of five million bushels per annum, the amount so paid to the party of the
second part shall be refunded or so much thereof as the receipts of the
year shall have exceeded five million bushels, so that the whole amount
paid on account of deficiency shall be refunded, should the total receipts
for the entire term equal or exceed fifty million bushels in all, or an average of five million bushels for each year." Held, that the railway company only agreed that the quantity of grain which it would deliver at the
elevators or tracks connected therewith, in the usual way in cars, for
storage and handling, should amount on an average to at least 5,000,000
bushels per annum for a period of ten years, and that, in case the grain
so delivered, or brought to the elevators for delivery, fell short of that
quantity it would pay one cent per bushel on the amount of such
deficiency.

THE

case is stated m the opinion.

.1fXrEdwzn Walker, (with whom was Xr John W Caqy on
the brief,) for plaintiff m error.
.M' John N Jewett for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE JACKsoN

delivered the opinon of the court.

This action was brought by defendants in error against the
plaintiff m error to recover a designated sum of money alleged
to be due under the terms of a covenant contained in a certain
indenture of lease made and entered into between the parties.
The cause was tried by the court below under a written stlpulation of the parties waiving a jury, and resulted m a judgment for the plaintiffs below for the sum of $33,783.83, to
reverse which, for errors of law claimed to have been committed by the court in its construction of the covenant and in
the legal conclusions it reached from the facts specially found,
this writ of error is prosecuted.

CHICAGO, NILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. HOYT.

3

Opinion of the Court.

On February 18, 1880, the Chicago, iMilwaukee and St. Paul
Railway Company, (hereafter called the railway company,)
being the owner thereof, leased and demised to the defendants
in error lots 3, 4 and 5, of block K, of the original town of
Chicago, for a term of ten years from the first day of Tanuary,
1881, at an annual rental of $3850, to be paid quarterly by the
lessees, who were also to pay all taxes and assessments that
might be levied upon the premises during the term. At the
date of the lease the lessees were the owners of the adjoining
lots 1 and 2 of the same block, upon which was located an elevator or warehouse, used for receiving, storing and handling
gram, and having a capacity for about 350,000 bushels. The
lease was executed under seal of the respective parties thereto,
and the material provisions thereof, so far as they relate to the
present controversy, are as follows
By the second article, Hoyt and his associates agreed to erect
on said lots 3, 4 and 5 a gram elevator "of a storage capacity
of 700,000 bushels or more during the year 1880." The article
provided that the elevator should have all modern improvements and should be constructed to the satisfaction of the railway company
No question is raised upon this article. The
case admits that it was fully executed.
By the third article, the railway company "agrees to lay
all necessary tracks adjacent to said elevator, to connect its
railway therewith for the purpose of delivering grain in cars
thereto, and keep the same in repair during the time of this
lease, and agrees to deliver on said tracks in cars, at said elevator, to the parties of the second part, all the gram that may
be brought by its railway consigned to parties in the city of
Chicago, so far as the party of the first part can legally control the same, for handling and storage in said elevator." The
case involves no breach of this article.
By the fourth article it is provided as follows "The said
parties of the second part [Hoyt and his associates] agree to
receive, handle and store said gram as delivered in the usual
manner of handling grain in the city of Chicago to the extent
and capacity of said elevator to be constructed, and in addition
agree that they will use for the same purpose, so far as thei-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

other engagements will allow, the elevator now standing on
lots 1 and 2 of said block, and the said party of the first part
shall at all tines be entitled to storage for its grain to the
extent of at least 1,000,000 bushels. The parties of the second part, with the consent of the party of the first part, may
receive grain for storage from other parties and from river
and canal craft, but in case such grain is so received so
as to reduce the capacity of the parties of the second part
to accommodate the party of the first part to the extent of
1,000,000 bushels in said elevators, the said parties of the
second part agree to furnish storage in other elevators to the
party of the first part to the extent that their capacity is so
reduced, without expense to the said party of the first part
for switching or otherwise." The case involves no violation
of this article by either of the parties.
The fifth, sixth and seventh articles, taking them in their
order, relate, 1st, to the charges to be made for the storage
and handling of gram - certain elevators accommodating the
gram business of competing railways being referred to as a
standard, 2d, to the rebuilding of the elevator in case of its
destruction by fire or other casualty, and that the "parties of
the second part will save the said party of the first part free
and harmless from all loss or damage by fire to said elevator
or contents during the continuance of this lease", and, 3d,
to the weighing of the grain received into the elevator, and
the appointment of weighers. In all these respects the case
presents no question of controversy
The last clause of the seventh article reads as follows "It
is further agreed that the parties of the second part will, at
all times, keep a force at said elevators sufficient to transact
all business that may be offered by said party of the first part,
and that cars of grain will be received and unloaded, when
the business of the party of the first part requires it, in the
night time or on Sundays, and that said business shall be
dispatched with equal and as great facility in that respect
as at any of the elevators in the city of Ohcago above mentioned, so as not to delay the cars of the party of the first
part unreasonably or unnecessarily"

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. HOYT.

5

Opinion of the Court.

It is upon the alleged breach of the eighth article of
the contract that this suit is brought. That article reads as
follows
"In consideration of the agreement aforesaid the said party
of the first part agrees that the total amount of gram received
at said elevator shall be at least five million bushels on an
average for each year during the term of this lease, and in
case it shall fall short of that amount the said party of the
first part agrees to pay to the said parties of the second part
one cent per bushel on the amount of such deficiency, settlements to be made at the close of each year, and whenever it
shall appear at the close of any year that the total grain received during so much of this lease as shall then have elapsed
does not amount to an average of five million bushels for each
year, the party of the first part shall pay to the parties of the
second part one cent per bushel for the amount of such deficiency, but in case it shall afterwards appear that the total
amount received up to that time equals or exceeds the average
amount of five million bushels per annum, the amount so paid
to the parties of the second part shall be refunded or so much
thereof as the receipts of the year shall have exceeded five
million bushels, so that the whole amount paid on account of
deficiency shall be refunded should the total receipts for the
entire term equal or exceed fifty million bushels in all on an
average of five million bushels for each year."
The remaining articles of the contract, including the supplement thereto, are comparatively unimportant.
In May, 1888, the defendants in error brought their action of
covenant against the railway company in the Superior Court
of Cook County, Illinois, for the alleged breach of the contract
and agreement embodied in said article 8 of the lease. The
railway company, being a citizen of Wisconsin, removed the
cause to the United States Circuit Court for the lNorthern District of Illinois. The declaration contained two special counts,
and the same breaches are assigned in each count. In the first
count the contract is set out =inhw verbi, the second, according to its tenor and effect.
The first breach assigned was that the grain received for

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

storage from the railway company during the year 1886 was
less by 1,740,194 bushels than the 5,000,000 bushels covenanted
to be received, and, therefore, the railway company became
bound at the close of the year 1886 to pay the plaintiffs, (defendants in error,) on account of the deficiency, the sum of
$1'[,401.94.
The second breach averred that the graan received for storage from the railway company during the year 1887 was less by
2,042,408 bushels than the 5,000,000 bushels covenanted to be
received, and, therefore, the railway company became liable at
the close of the year 1887 to pay to the plaintiffs, (defendants
in error,) on account of the deficiency, the sum of $20,424.08.
The main breach specially set up and relied on is the third,
which comprehends the other two, and is thus stated in the
declaration
"The said plaintiffs further aver that the total amount of
gram received in the elevators mentioned in said indenture
during the years 1886 and 1887 did not equal the ten million
bushels or five million bushels upon an average for each of
said years covenanted by the defendant in said indenture to be
therein received during those years, but, on the contrary, the
said plaintiffs aver that the total amount of grain received
in said elevators during said two years, allowing to the defendants the full storage capacity in said elevators of one million
bushels stipulated for in said indenture, was less than the ten
million bushels promised to be therein received by the defendant as aforesaid during said years 1886 and 1887 by three million seven hundred and eighty-two thousand six hundred and
two (3,782,602) bushels, and the plaintiffs aver that on account
of said deficiency between the amount of grain pronsed by
the defendant to be received in said elevators and the amount
actually received therein during said years the said defendant
became and was liable to pay to the plaintiffs, according to
the terms and provisions of said indenture of lease and agreement and its further covenant in such case therein provided,
the sum of one cent per bushel upon the total number of
bushels constituting the deficiency of said years 1886 and
1887, whereby and by reason whereof the said defendant,

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. HOYT.

7

Opinion of the Court.

by virtue of its covenant aforesaad, became liable to pay to
said plaintiffs thirty-seven thousand eight hundred and twentysix dollars and two cents ($37,826.02) at the tnes and in the
manner in said indenture provided."
On demurrer of the defendant to the declaration being overruled by the court, 39 Fed. Rep. 416, so far as it related to
the breaches thus charged, the defendant ipterposed a plea of
general performance, and by stipulation of the parties it was
agreed that "said cause shall stand for trial upon the single
plea of general performance, first pleaded by said defendant,
and the issue made thereon, with the right reserved to either
party to introduce on the trial of said cause under said issue
all evidence which could be properly introduced under any
issue legitimately framed under special pleas applicable to the
case, and that upon the filing of this stipulation all other pleas
filed herein by the said defendant shall be considered as withdrawn."
The cause was thereupon submitted and heard upon its
merits by the court below, winch made the following special
findings of fact
"First. It found the contract as already recited, duly made
and entered into between the parties.
"Second. That said elevator was constructed upon the lots
named in said agreement and was completed within the tune and
in accordance with the terms and conditions of said agreement,
on or about the 24th day of December, A.D. 1880, with a
working capacity of 750,000 bushels; that the storage or
working capacity of the elevator known as the Fulton elevator
was 350,000 bushels, both elevators affording storage and
working capacity of about 1,100,000 bushels of grain, and that
the cost of constructing said new elevator was about the sum
of $200,000.
"Third. That the said Mvunger, Wheeler & Company, as
assignees of Jesse Hoyt and his associates, built said new
elevator and have controlled and operated both elevators
since December, 1880, and are now operating the same, and
that said firm during said time also owned and controlled six
other elevators, all located in the city of Chicago, upon other

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

railroads entering into said city, and that at the present time
said firm controls and operates in all eight gram elevators in
said city, with an aggregate storage or working capacity of
about 6,000,000 bushels of gram.
"Fourth. That in the year 1886 the plaintiffs received
from the defendant, for store in the St. Paul or new elevator,
1,923,339 bushels of grain, and m the Fulton elevator 903,482
bushels, and also that the plaintiffs received from the defendant for storage 432,985 bushels of grain in the Union elevator,
located on the Chicago and Alton Railroad, in the city of
Chicago, making a total for the year 1886 of gram received
by the plaintiffs from the defendant of 3,259,806 bushels, all
of which is credited to the defendant in its account for that
year.
"That in the year 1887 the plaintiffs received from the
defendant in the new or St. Paul elevator 2,300,292 bushels of
grain, and in the Fulton elevator 657,300 bushels of gram,
making a total of 2,957,592 bushels of grain received by the
plaintiffs from the defendant during the year 1887.
"That all the gram received and handled by the plaintiffs
in the Fulton and St. Paul elevators during said years was
received from the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company
"Fifth. The court further finds that the plaintiffs admitted
in open court that during the years 1886 and 1887 grain was
tendered by the defendant to the plaintiffs for storage, and
-that it could not be received for the reason that the plaintiffs'
warehouses were filled, that the grain so tendered amounted
to 8,685,269 bushels, and that the plaintiffs never declined to
receive shipments of grain from the defendant when such
elevators had capacity to receive it within 1,000,000 bushels,
and that when the plaintiffs refused to receive further gram
for storage the defendant was notified that it occupied the
entire capacity stipulated for in the contract at the time
plaintiffs declined to receive the grain so tendered, to wit,
1,000,000 bushels.
"Sixth. That for the year 1886 the defendant paid for
switching grain to other elevators when the plaintiffs were

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. HOYT.

9

Opinon of the Court.

unable, and, therefore, refused to accept the same, the sum of
$2871.00, and in the year 1881 the sum of $9962.35, and that
the cost of tram service for the defendant in delivering such
grain to other elevators amounted to about the same sum.
"That the defendant also, during said year, contracted with
parties having grain stored in said elevators to remove the
same in order to furnish more room for the defendant, that
for the removal of 100,000 bushels the defendant paid the
owners thereof $15,000.00, and that after such removal the
plaintiffs refused to receive from the defendant for storage
more than 40,000 bushels in place of the grain that had been
so removed for the reason that that amount of additional
grain exhausted the storage and hauling capacity of said two
elevators; that it was to the interest of the defendant to
deliver all the grain to the plaintiffs at said St. Paul and
Fulton elevators during said years.
"That during the two years in controversy the entire
storage capacity of said elevators was constantly occupied by
grain received from the defendant's cars, and, although the
plaintiffs refused to receive additional grain tendered by the
defendant during the same period, their refusal was always
based upon the ground that their elevators were full and
contained more than 1,000,000 bushels of grain received from
the defendant.
"That at no time during the said years 1886 and 1887 did
the plaintiffs refuse to receive grain from the defendant for
storage in said elevators when there was any unoccupied
storage space in the same, and that some of the grain so
delivered and stored during said years remained in said
elevators so long that the plaintiffs were not able to receive
or handle for defendant during said years the amount of
grain contemplated by the contract or the full amount
actually tendered by the defendant, and that but for this
unusual condition the plaintiffs would have received and
stored all the gram tendered by the defendant.
"Seventh. The court further finds that the plaintiffs' regular charges for storage of gram in said elevators during the
years 1886 and 1887 were one and three-quarters of a cent

OCTOBER TERM',

1892.

Opimon of the Court.

per bushel for the first ten days and one and one-half of a
cent per bushel for the subsequent ten days, and for every
thirty days the storage charges were one cent and threequarters per bushel, that for 1,000,000 bushels stored m such
elevators and continued therein for one year, the regular storage charges for the same during the years 1886 and 1887
would be at the rate of $150,000 for each 1,000,000 bushels
for the term of one year, that if said elevators could be kept
employed with first storage, that is, if 1,000,000 bushels could
pass through said elevators each ten days, the charges for a
year would amount to about $270,000.
"That the length of time that said gram remained m store
was not regulated or controlled by either the plaintiffs or
defendant, but by the shippers or owners of such gram.
"Eighth. That the plaintiffs have kept the account of all
their elevators together, and, therefore, could not 'state the
earmngs of the elevators in question for the years 1886 and
1887.
"Ninth. There is no evidence of the amount of earnings of
said St. Paul and Fulton elevators during the years 1886 and
1887, or of the income of the plaintiffs derived from the storage of grain or charges thereon in said elevators during said
period of time, nor is there any evidence of any actual damages sustained by the plaintiffs by reason of their not handling in said elevators during said years the full amount of
10,000,000 bushels of grain, or by reason of the alleged breach
of covenant by the defendant other than the one cent per
bushel for the years 1886 and 1887, as prescribed by article
8 of the contract."
As the result of these findings, the amount of the deficiencies for the years 1886 and 1887, with interest from the end
of each year to September 25, 1889, was ascertained to be
$42,806.13, from which was deducted the rental and interest
thereon, for the years 1886 and 1887, set up as a counterclaim, amounting to the sum of $9022.30, which left a balance
due from the defendant to the plaintiffs of $33,783.83, for
which judgment was rendered.
The defendant moved for judgment on various grounds,

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. HOYT. 11
Opinion of the Court.

winch were denied by the court, and which need not be
specially noticed, as they are covered by the assignments of
error.
In the -new we take of the case it is not necessary to consider several questions presented by the plaintiff in error, such
as want of mutuality in the covenant in question, or the
impossibility of the performance thereof, or that it was a
wagering contract, and ultra wres on the part of the railway
company The material questions of the case are covered by
the two assignments that the judgment is not sustained by
the special findings of fact, and that the court erred in its
construction of the contract between the parties. There is no
bill of exceptions in the record, and the errors of law relied
upon by the plaintiff m error must therefore be considered
and determined upon the special findings of fact.
The action of the lower court in overruling the demurrer to
the declaration proceeded in part, if not entirely, upon the
ground that the undertaking entered into by the railway
company m and by the eighth article of the lease amounted
to a guaranty that the business of the elevators during each
year of the term should amount to a certain sum. As we
understand their position, counsel for the defendants m error
do not, however, insist upon this construction of the covenant,
but rely upon the interpretation given it by the Circuit Judge
at the hearing on the merits, winch was "that if, with a
storage capacity of 1,000,000 bushels, the plaintiffs should not
be able to receive and handle 5,000,000 bushels annually, and
earn commissions on that basis, the defendant would pay to
the plaintiffs one cent per bushel on the deficiency "
If the true meamng and intent of the covenant, read, as
it should be, in connection with the other provisions of the
contract, and in the light of the surrounding circumstances,
the situation of the parties, and the objects they respectively
had m view, was to guarantee to the lessees that they would
actually receive, store and handle at the designated elevators,
on an average each year of the lease, as much as 5,000,000
bushels of grain, and that if in the course of the grain business
they could not, in fact, receive, store and handle more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.
1,000,000 bushels during the year, still the railway company
would be liable to them for one cent on 4,000,000 bushels not
so received and stored, although tendered and offered to them
in the manner and at the place provided for m the contract,
then there is no error m the judgment of the Circuit Court.
If, however, the language of the stipulation means, as counsel for plaintiff in error contend, that the railway company
only agreed that the quantity of grain which it would deliver
at the elevators or tracks connected therewith, in the usual
way in cars, for storage and handling, should amount on an
average to at least 5,000,000 bushels per annum for a period
of ten years, and that in case the grain so delivered, or brought
to the elevators for delivery, fell short of that quantity, it
would pay one cent per bushel on the amount of such deficiency, then the judgment is erroneous, and should be reversed. We are of opinion that the latter constructidn is the
proper one, and meets the real object and purpose which the
parties had in view in entering into the contract.
To meet a natural and reasonable solicitude of the lessees
that the full supply of grain should be brought to their elevators, the railway company agreed "to deliver on said tracks
in cars, at said elevators, to the parties of the second part (the
lessees) all the gram that may be brought by its railway consigned to parties in the city of Chicago, so far as the party of
the first part (the railway company) could legally control the
same, for handling and storing in said elevator." If the railway company had failed to deliver at the elevators for storage and handling all gram, consigned or unconsigned, which
it brought to Chicago, and could legally control, it might
perhaps have been liable to the lessees for the damage thence
resulting, and could not have set up, by way of excuse or defence, that the elevators were continuously filled with other
grain previously received from the railway company The
fact that the lessees had furnished storage for a million
bushels received from the railway company, and thereby exhausted the capacity of their elevators to take any more graan
on storage so long as the million bushels remained on hand,
would not have exempted the railway company from the obli-

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY v. HOYT. 13
Opinion of the Court.

gation of delivering at the elevators all grain brought by it
to the city, so far as it could control the same. Under this
provision of the contract if the quantity brought, and subject
to its control, was four or five million bushels in addition to
the million previously delivered and m store, the railway company would still be bound to tender such additional grain to
the lessees, who, under the construction placed upon the eighth
article of the lease by the court below, could not only decline to accept the same, but actually make their inability to
receive and store the grain tendered the basis of a valid claim
for one cent per bushel on the amount so tendered and declined. A result so unreasonable as this is hardly to be supposed to have been contemplated and intended by the parties.
It is found as a fact that the length of time grain could or would
remain in store was not, and could not, be legally controlled
by either the lessor or the lessees, but was subject to the exclusive control, m that regard, of the shippers and owners of
the grain. The construction which was placed upon the contract, and which is necessary to support the judgment below,
would place the railway company in the position of undertaking to guarantee that shippers and owners having grain on
storage in the elevators would so deal with, or remove and
dispose of the same as to enable the lessees to store and handle
more grain than the elevators had capacity for. It is not to
be supposed that the railway company was undertaking to
make a guaranty as to how gram, owned and stored by others,
would be dealt with or controlled in respect to its remaining
or being removed from the elevators, and the language of the
covenant does not require a construction which would place
the railway company in that position.
The court below attached importance to the use of the word
"received," as employed in the eighth article. The words
"total amount of grain received at said elevator" would, however, be pressed beyond their legitimate and proper meaning
if construed to mean that the elevator should actually store
and handle 5,000,000 bushels during each year without regard to its capacity, or without reference to the ability of the
lessees to accept and store that quantity The language of

OCTOBER TERIf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the covenant is that the "total amount of gram received at
said elevators shall be at least 5,000,000 bushels on an average
for each year during, the term of this lease, and m 'case it shall
fall short of that amount, the said party of the first part
agrees to pay to the said party of the second part one cent
per bushel on the amount of such deficiency"
The agreement or stipulation that the amount of grain "received at said elevator" should reach the designated quantity,
falls short of an undertaking or guaranty by the railway company, that the elevator should, in fact, store and handle that
quantity each year of the term. The amount of grain "received at" an elevator during a given period should not be
construed as meaning that such amount would or should be
actually taken into the same for storage and handling, unless
there is something m the context clearly indicative of an intention to use the words in the latter sense. No such intent
appears in the present case.
The manifest object and purpose of the covenant was to
assure the lessees that there would be delivered at or brought
to said elevators by the railway company and others a total
amount of at least 5,000,000 bushels of gram per annum for
storage and handling, and not that the railway company
would guarantee that the lessees could or would actually
receive, store and handle that quantity at the elevators.
When, therefore, the railway company, and others, offered at
the elevators the stipulated quantity or amount of grain, it
performed the condition of its guaranty, and the inability of
the lessees to accept the graan so tendered, on account of the
storage capacity of the elevators being fully occupied by third
parties, whose action in respect to allowing the grain to remain, or to be removed, was beyond the control of either the
lessor or the lessees, cannot operate to defeat such performance or constitute any ground for thereafter holding the railway company liable on its guaranty
There can be no question that a party may by an absolute
contract bind hinself or itself to perform things which subsequently become nmpossible, or pay damages for the nonperformance, and such construction is to be put upon an

CHICAGO, MILWAU-KEE &c. RAILWAY v. HOYT.

15

Opinion of the Court.

unqualified undertaking, where the event which causes the
inpossibility might have been anticipated and guarded against
in the contract, or where the impossibility arises from the act
or default of the promisor. But where the event is of such a
character that it cannot be reasonably supposed to have been
in the contemplation of the contracting parties when the contract was made, they will not be held bound by general words,
which, though large enough to include, were not used with
reference to the possibility of the particular contingency
which afterwards happens.
This principle is directly applicable here, for the covenant
sued on cannot be construed to mean that the railway company contemplated by the terms of its agreement that it was
to be held responsible for the course of business of the lessees,
or that it was undertaking to guarantee that shippers and
owners, having grain in store at the elevators, would remove
the same with sufficient dispatch to enable the elevators to
store and handle as much as 5,000,000 bushels annually
This would be a most unusual and unreasonable undertaking,
wholly beyond the control and ability of the railway company
to perform, and while the words "receive at the elevators"
might in and of themselves be broad enough to include such
an undertaking, if the context clearly showed that such was
the intention of the contracting parties, we are of opinion that
they were not so understood and used by the parties in this
case, and should not be so extended as to cover the contingency or possibility of such a course of dealing as would prevent the acceptance of grain if the agreed quantity was
tendered. There is no allegation in the declaration that
gram to the amount specified was not, during the years 1886
and 1887, received at or tendered in cars on the tracks at
said elevators for delivery, to the amount of or in excess of
5,000,000 bushels of grain. On the contrary, the court below finds, as a matter of fact, that the defendant in 1886
and 1887 so delivered 6,210,398 bushels, which was received
by the defendant into said elevator, and further finds as follows: "Fifth. The court further finds that the plaintiffs admitted in open court that during the years 1886 and 1887

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

grain was tendered by the defendant to the plaintiffs for
storage, and that it could not be received for the reason that
the plaintiffs' warehouses were filled, that the grain so tendered amounted to 8,685,269 bushels, and that the plaintiffs
never declined to receive shipments of grain from the defendant when such elevators had the capacity to receive it within
a million bushels, and that when the plaintiffs refused to
receive further grain for storage the defendant was notified
that it occupied the entire capacity stipulated for it in the
contract at the time plaintiffs declined to receive the gram so
tendered, to wit, one million bushels."
It is urged in behalf of the defendants in error that this
amount of 8,685,269 bushels so tendered by the railway
company includes the 6,210,398 bushels which the court finds
was actually received into the said elevators during said years.
We do not so construe this finding. Its language relates
clearly and distinctly to an amount of grain that was tendered
by the railway company, and which could not be received by
the lessees, for the reason that the warehouses were filled. It
is thus shown that, in addition to what was actually received,
there was tendered by the railway company, at the place and
in the manner provided for in the contract, 8,685,269 bushels,
which the elevators could not accept and did not receive and
store. The amount so tendered, with that actually received,
exceeded the total amount which the railway company agreed
that the lessees should have the opportunity to accept and
store, and this we hold to be a full and complete compliance
by the railway company with the terms and true meaning of
its covenant. To hold otherwise would render the railway
company liable for the inability of the lessees to accept the
performance that was offered by it. It would require the
clearest and most unqualified understanding on the part of
the railway company to subject it to such a liability
The plaintiff in error interposed a counter-claim for the rent
due it for the years 1886 and 1887, which, as found by the
court below, amounted to $9022.30, which was deducted from
the amount which the court below adjudged to be due the
lessees.

