UNITED STATES v. MOCK.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. MOCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 233.

Submitted April 21, 1893. -Decided

May 1,1893.

When the defendant in an action of trespass brought by the United States
against him for cutting and carrying away timber from public lands
admits the doing of those acts, the plaintiffs are entitled to at least nominal damages in the absence of direct evidence as to the value of the
standing trees.
It is not to be presumed m such case as matter of course that the government permitted the trespass, and any instruction by the court pointing
that way is error.

THIS action was commenced by the filing of a complaint on
Mfray 6, 1884, in the Circuit Court of the'United States for the
Northern District of California, in which complaint it was
alleged that the plaintiff was the owner, in 1879, of a certain
tract of land m the county of Fresno, State of California,
describing it, upon which tract of land were growing trees,
that during that year the defendant unlawfully and wrongfully
cut down and carried off certain of these trees, to wit, five
hundred pine trees, and manufactured them into lumber, producing 1,500,000 feet of lumber, of the value of $15,000, for
which sum judgment was asked. Defendant answered with a
general denial. The case was tried before a jury in April,
1888. On the trial it appeared, from the testimony of defendant as well as that of other witnesses, that in 1879 defendant
had built a saw-mill adjoining the tract, and operated it for a
little less than three months, that it had a capacity of about
ten thousand feet board measure a day, that he had five white
men and two or three Indians employed at the mill, and that
the timber was cut in the vicinity of the mill. The defendant
also admitted that he knew that the tract described in the
complaint was government land, and that he did not at any
time enter it as a homestead or preemption, and that a portion,
VOL. CX=X-18

OCTOBER TERM-Y1, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

though only a small portion, of the timber which he sawed,
was cut from that tract. There was the further testimony on
the part of the government of two timber agents, that after
the commencement of this action they went upon the land and
counted the number of stumps, and found 814 stumps of pine
trees, of the diameter of from two to three feet. There was
also given in evidence an estimate of the amount of lumber
that would be made from a tree of the size indicated by such
stumps. There was evidence tending to show the price and
value of lumber in that vicinity in the year 18M9, but not of
the value of standing trees. In its instructions the court
referred to the estimate made by the timber agents of the
amount of lumber that would have been manufactured from
the timber cut upon the premises, and the admission made by
the defendant that he had cut some timber, stated that there
was no testimony that he had cut all the timber that had been
cut thereon, and that the jury had no right to guess, and that
unless proof had been offered which created a reasonable certainty in their minds as to the amount of timber cut by the
defendant, and its value, the verdict must be for the defendant,
and then proceeded as follows
"There are two elements entering into these cases. This is
an action of trespass, a tort. It is wrong for one person to
go on another person's land and cut and remove timber without
the consent of the owner, so the going of any person on the
public domain and cutting and removing from it timber without
the consent of the government is wrong, just as much as if I
went on any of your ranches or vineyards, cut and removed
the crops without your consent. But there is a vast difference
m the character and quality of actions. A gentleman may
permit the public to use a portion of his domain as a highway
for years, and as long as it is being done with his tacit consent
nobody would be held a trespasser for doing so, but when he
notifies the public that it must cease, then that tacit right
ceases, and anybody who went on there might be justly held
as a trespasser. The history of the country in regard to trespassing on the public domain and cutting timber for the use
of the people in building their homes upon their farms and for

UNITED STATES v. MOCK.
Statement of the Case.

general domestic purposes may be considered. As I observed,
the government is the proprietor of the soil. It has always
owned the soil and the timber on it and the mines beneath it,
but it is a matter of common knowledge in this country that
the country could not have been settled up otherwise than by
the practice and custom which has grown up in advance of

legislation.
"It is a matter of history that the government permitted
the early pioneers, as they went ahead to make their homes for
themselves, to go on the public domain and take such timber
as was necessary for domestic use, and although there never
was any law or license to that effect, it was done with the
knowledge of every department of the government - legislativej judicial, and executive. The earliest law that was passed
that I remember was in 1833, forbidding, under pains and
penalties, the entering on lands that had been reserved on
which there were valuable forests of live oak and pine for
ship-building. It is possible that there was other legislation
following that, but I do not remember any until 1878, and
during all that time every department of the government
knew how the country was being settled, and that men went
on and felled trees with this tacit permission, or, if there was
not a tacit permission, at least there was no reprehension of
their acts. In this case, in order to judge wisely and fairly
of this defendant as to whether he was a wanton trespasser,
you will have to take into consideration the concurrent circumstances surrounding his acts. While I wish you to
understand that I am not aware of any license having ever
been given in the last sixty years to any party to go on the
public domain and cut timber, no court has ever held, and no
court would be justified in holding, that these men were all
criminals who went on and put up a little mill for the purpose
of aiding their neighbors m procuring lumber for domestic
purposes. I say you will not judge correctly whether these
men were wilful and wanton trespassers in the sense in which
a trespass is wilful and wanton, unless you take into account
the contemporaneous history of the country and these matters,
which are familiar to you all. If this party was a wilful

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

trespasser and cut from the public domain this timber
wantonly and maliciously, the government is entitled to
recover from him the full value of the timber by hum so
cut and removed from the public domain, without allowing
at all for the increased value that he put upon it, for it will
not be permitted that a man shall trespass on your property
and commit waste and wanton destruction by removing it, that
you shall be merely indemnified for the original value -in
other words, you may recover your property and its value
wherever you find it, whether the man has added to its value
since he got it or not. This case is somewhat different from
the case yesterday This case presents this naked fact That
if you return a verdict for the government, it must be for the
value of the lumber manufactured. Now, no evidence has
been offered in the case showing the market value of the
trees, or if they had any market value one way or the
other. There is no evidence in the case to warrant you
in concluding that the trees had any market value in 1879 or
at any other time. The only evidence offered by the government is as to the value of the timber after it was cut and
made into lumber, and in that way this case differs from the
case yesterday Yesterday I instructed you in that case that
if you find that although there was a trespass, that it was not
wilful, you might determine the value of the timber as it
stood on the ground. In this case there is no evidence of that
kind."
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, and the government has brought the case here on error.
Xr Assistant Attorney GeneralParkerfor plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The only errors alleged are in the charge. The specific
portions to which the attention of the court was called at the
time and exceptions taken are that which refers to the history

UNITED STATES v. MOCK.
Opinon of the Court.

of the attitude of the government toward pioneers and others
who took timber from government lands for domestic use,
and that which declared that no verdict could be returned in
favor of the government except for the value of the lumber
manufactured. In these there was obvious error. Although
there was no direct evidence of the value of the standing trees,
yet it did appear that they were manufactured into lumber,
and that the lumber had commanded a price of from eight to
nine dollars a thousand feet, and when the government proved
or defendant admitted that he cut and carried away some of
the timber on this tract, the government was entitled to at
least a verdict for nominal damages. As to any further right
of recovery, see TFooden-ware Co. v Uniited States, 106 U. S.
432, Benson .fintng Company v Alta .Alinimg Company, 145
U. S. 428.
Nor were the observations of the court in reference to the
attitude of the government justifiable. Whatever propriety
there might be in such a reference, in a case in which it appeared that the defendant had simply cut timber for his own
use, or the improvement of his own land, or development of
his own mine, (and in respect to that matter, as it is not before
us,. we express no opinion,) there certainly was none in suggesting that the attitude of the government upheld or countenanced a party in going into the business of cutting and
carrying off the timber from government land, manufacturing
it into lumber, and selling it for profit, and that was this
case. There is no pretence that the defendant cut timber for
his own use, he says himself he sold it all. He ran a sawmill, cut timber, manufactured it into lumber, and made profit
out of the sale of the lumber. There is nothing in the legislation of Congress or the history of the government which
carries with it an approval of such appropriations of government property as that.
The judgment must be reversed, and a new trial ordered.
Reversed.
No. 235, UNITED STATES V. HUMPHRIES AND MOCK. Error to the
Circuit C8urt of the United States for the Northern District of

