SHUTE v. KEYSER.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr William H. H. H~art, Attorney General of the State of Califorma, for the motion to dismiss.
.Mr Carroll Cook opposing.

SHUTE v. KEYSER.
APPEAL

FROM THE

SUPREME COURT
ARIZONA.

OF

No. 1187. Submitted May 1, 1893. -Decided

THE TERRITORY

OF

May 15, 1893.

An appeal or writ of error lies to this court from the judgments or decrees
of the Supreme Courts of the Territories, except in cases where the
judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeal are made final.

T.is was a motion to dismiss.
opinion.

The case is stated in the

-Hr R. F Brent for the motion.
.Ab' William Allen Butler and .MXr
posing.
M-. CinEF
court.

JUSTICE FULLER

John Jlotman op-

delivered the opinion of the

This was an action brought in the district court of Gila
County, Arizona, by William Keyser against George E. Shute,
sheriff of that county, and certain judgment creditors of the
Old Domnimon Copper Mining Company, to enjoin the threatened sale, under an execution against that company, of mining
property of which Keyser claimed to be the owner, which resulted in a decree in favor of Keyser according to the prayer
of the complaint. The case was carried by appeal to the
Supreme Court of the Territory and the judgment affirmed,
whereupon an appeal to this court was allowed, and the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

having been duly docketed, now comes before us on motion to
dismiss.
The citation was signed March 12, 1892, and made returnable on the first day of the ensuing October term, and one of
the two grounds relied on in support of the motion is that the
citation should have been returnable within sixty days from
the signing of the same, under section five of rule eight, and
section four of rule nine, of this court. It is true that the
rules so provide, but as the purpose of the citation is notice so
that the appellant may appear and be heard, any defect in
that regard is not jurisdictional and a new citation might be
taken out if necessary, which, however, it is not, as the appellees have appeared generally
The second ground of the motion is, that by reason of the
provisions of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, the appeal
was improperly allowed and cannot be maintained.
By section 702 of the :Revised Statutes and the act of March
3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, the final judgments and decrees
of the Supreme Court of the Territories, where the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum of $5000, might
be reviewed or reversed or affirmed in this court upon a writ
of error or appeal in the same manner and under the same
regulations as the final judgments and decrees of a Circuit
Court. By the fifth section of the judiciary act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517, it was provided that appeals or
writs of error might be taken directly to the Supreme Court
from the District and Circuit Courts in six classes of cases
therein enumerated, neither of which classes includes the pending case. By the sixth section the Circuit Courts of Appeals,
established by the act, were to exercise appellate jurisdiction
to review by appeal or writ of error final decisions of the
District and Circuit Courts in all cases other than those provided for in the fifth section, unless otherwise provided by law,
and the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
were made final in all cases in which the jurisdiction was dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit being
aliens and citizens of the United States, or citizens of different
States, in all cases arising under the patent laws, the revenue

SHUTE v. KEYSER.
Opinion of the Court.

laws; the criminal laws, and in admiralty cases. The case at
bar falls under none of these heads.
IBy the fifteenth section it was provided that the Circuit
Courts of Appeals in cases in which the judgments or decrees
of those courts were made final by the act, should have the
same appellate jurisdiction by writ of error or appeal to review
the judgments, orders, and decrees of the Supreme Courts of
the several Territories, as by the act they might have to review the judgments, orders, and decrees of the District and
Circuit Courts. This section does not apply to this case because it is not one of the cases in which the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are made final by the
act.
By the fourteenth section, section 691 of the Revised Statutes, and section three of the act of February 16, 1875, 18
Stat. 315, c. 77, were expressly repealed, and also "all acts and
parts of acts relating to appeals or writs of error inconsistent
with the provisions for review by appeals or writs of error in
the preceding sections five and six of this act."
There was no provision for appeals or writs of error in cases
not made final by section six from the Supreme Courts of the
Territories to the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and there was no,
express repeal of the provisions of the prior acts regulating
appeals or writs of error in such other cases from those courts
to this. There is nothing to indicate an intention that the
judgments and decrees of the Supreme Courts of the Territories should not be susceptible of review in the class of cases in
which there was no appeal or writ of error to the Circuit
Courts of Appeals.
The result is that, as the acts regulating appeals or writs of
error from or to the Supreme Courts of the Territories to or
from this court were not repealed, except to the extent specified, an appeal or writ of error lies to this court from the
judgments or decrees of those courts, except in cases where
the judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are made
final.
The rnotwm to dismms the appeal will therefore be dented.

