DALZELL v. DUEBER MANUFACTURING CO. 315
Statement of the Case.

DALZELL v. DUEBER WATCH CASE MANUFACTlIRING COMPANY

SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 213, 214. Argued April 18, 19,1893. -Decided May 10, 1893.
An oral agreement for the sale and assignment of the right to obtain a
patent for an invention is not within the statute of frauds, nor within
section 4898 of the Revised Statutes requiring assignments of patents to
be in writing, and may be specifically enforced in equity, upon sufficient
proof thereof.
A manufacturing corporation, which has employed a skilled workman, for
a stated compensation, to take charge of its works, and to devote his
time and services to devising and making improvements in articles there
manufactured, is not entitled to a conveyance of patent* obtained for
inventions made by him while so employed, in the absence of express
agreement to that effect.
Specific performance will not be decreed in equity without clear and satisfactory proof of the contract set forth in the bill.
Where, at the hearing in equity upon a plea and a general replication, the
plea, as pleaded, is not supported by the testimony, it must be overruled,
and the defendant ordered to answer the bill.

THESE were two bills in equity, heard together in the
Circuit Court; and argued together in this court.
On March 31, 1886, Allen 0. Dalzell, a citizen of the State
of New York, and the Fahys Watch Case Company, a New
York corporation, filed a bill in equity against the Dueber
Watch Case Manufacturing Company, a corporation of Ohio,
for the infringement of two patents for improvements in
apparatus for making cores for watch cases, granted to
Dalzell, October 27, 1885, for the term of which he had, on
January 21, 1886, granted a license, exclusive for three years,

to the Fahys Company
To that bill the Dueber Company, on June 4, 1886, filed

the following plea

"That prior to the grant of the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

letters patent upon which the bill of complaint is based, and
prior to the application therefor, and prior to any alleged
invention by said Dalzell of any part, feature or combination
described, shown or claimed in either of said letters patent,
the said defendant, being then engaged in the manufacture of
watch cases in the city of Newport in the State of Kentucky,
and the said Dalzell having been in its employ as a tool-maker
for a year preceding, it, said defendant, at the request of said
Dalzell, re~mployed said Dalzell at increased wages to aid in
experimenting upon inventions upon machinery and tools to
be used in the manufacture of various portions of watch cases,
that said Dalzell did then and there agree with said defendant,
in consideration of said increased salary as aforesaid to be
paid to him, and which was paid to him by this defendant,
to dedicate his best efforts, skill and inventive talent and
genius towards the perfecting and improvement of watch-case
machinery and such other devices as this defendant should
direct and order, and in experimenting under the direction of
this defendant for this purpose, and further agreed that any
inventions or improvements made or contributed to by him,
said Dalzell, should be patented at the expense of this defendant, and for its benefit exclusively, and that said Dalzell
should execute proper deeds of assignment, at the expense of
this defendant, to be lodged with the applications for all such
patents in the United States Patent Office, and said patents
were to be granted and issued directly to this defendant, that,
in pursuance of said agreement, said Dalzell entered upon said
employment, and while thus employed at the factory of this
defendant, and while using its tools and materials, and receiving such increased wages from it, as aforesaid, the said alleged
inventions were made, that said patents were applied for,
with the permission of this defendant, by the said Dalzell,
and that all fees and expenses of every kind, necessary or
useful for obtaining said patents, including as well Patent
Office fees, as fees paid the solicitor employed to attend to the
work incident to the procuring of said patents and drawing
said assignments to this defendant, were paid by this defendant, and that, notwithstanding the foregoing, said Dalzell did

DALZELL v. DUEBER MANUFACTURING

0.

317

Statement of the Case.

not sign the said deeds, although he had promised so to do,,
but fraudulently and secretly procured the said patents to be
granted to himself, of all of which this defendant avers the
complainant the Fahys Watch Case Company had notice, at
and prior to the alleged making of the license by said Dalzell
to it, more particularly referred to in the bill of complaint,
and defendant avers that by reason of the premises the title
in equity to said patents is in this defendant."
The plea, as required by Equity Rule 31 of this court, was
upon a certificate of counsel that in his opinion it was well
founded in point of law, and was supported by the affidavit
of John C. Dueber, that he was the president of the Dueber
Company, that the plea was not interposed for delay, and that
it was true in point of fact.
After a general replication had been filed and some proofs
taken in that case, including depositions of Dueber and of
Dalzell, the Dueber Company, on January 1'7, 1887, filed a
bill in equity against Dalzell and the Fahys Company, for the
specific performance of an oral contract of Dalzell to assign
to the Dueber Company the rights to obtain patents for his
inventions, and for an injunction against Dalzell and the Fahys
Company, and for further relief.
This bill contained the following allegations
"That heretofore, to wit, prior to November 1, 1884, the
said defendant Dalzell was in the employment of your orator,
making and devising tools to be used in the construction of
watch cases, that on or about said last-mentioned date, at the
request of said Dalzell, his wages were raised, in consideration
of a promise then made by said Dalzell to your orator that
in the future his services would be of great value in the devising and perfecting of such tools, that, in pursuance of said
promise and contract, the said Dalzell continued in the employ
of your orator, and wholly at its expense, to devise and construct various tools to be used in your orator's watch-case
factory in the manufacture of various parts of watch cases,
that said Dalzell was so employed for a great length of time,
to wit, a whole year, a large part of which time he was assisted
by various workmen employed and paid by your orator to assist

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

him, the said Dalzell, in constructing such tools and in the
experiments incident thereto."
"That subsequently thereto, and when said tools were completed, said Dalzell requested your orator to apply for letters
patent for the various inventions embodied in all of said tools,
for the use and benefit of your orator, representing to your
orator that he, said Dalzell, had made valuable discoveries and
inventions while engaged in designing and constructing said
tools, and further representing that, if your orator did not
secure the exclusive right to said inventions by letters patent,
in all probability some of the workmen employed at your
orator's factory, who were familiar with the said inventions
and the construction of said tools, might go to some other and
rival watch-case company, and explain to it the construction
of such tools, and make similar tools for such other company,
in which case your orator would be without remedy'"
"That said Dalzell then and there, and as a further inducement to your orator to have letters patent applied for for said
inventions, voluntarily offered to your orator that, if your
orator should permit him, Dazell, to apply for letters patent,
and your orator pay all the expenses incident to obtaining
such letters patent, such letters patent might be taken for the
benefit of your orator, and that he, Dalzell, would not ask or
require any further or other consideration for said inventions
and such letters patent as might be granted thereon, which
proposition was then and there accepted by your orator, and
it was then fully agreed between said parties that said Dalzell
should immediately proceed, through a solicitor of his own
selection, to procure said patents for and in the name of your
orator, and that your orator should pay all bills that might be
presented by said Dalzell or such solicitor as might be selected
to attend to the business of procuring said patents."
This bill further alleged that Dalzell did, in pursuance of
that agreement, select a solicitor and apply for the two patents
mentioned in the bill for an infringement, and three other
patents, that, when some of the patents had "passed for
issue," the solicitor employed by Dalzell sent blank assign.
ments thereof to the Dueber Company with a request that

DALZELL v. DUEBER MANUFACTURIIG CO.

319-

Counsel for Appellee.

Dalzell sign them, and thus transfer the legal title in the
inventions to the Dueber Company, and enable the patents
to be granted directly to it, that it exhibited these assignments to Dalzell, and requested him to sign them, that Dalzell replied that he would postpone signing them until all the
patents had "passed for issue," and would then sign all together, to all which the Dueber Company assented, that the
Dueber Company paid all the fees and expenses necessary or
useful in obtaining the patents, but that Dalzell fraudulently
procured the patents to be granted to himself, and refused to
assign them to the Dueber Company, and, as that company
was informed and believed, conveyed, with the intention of
defrauding it, certain interests in and licenses under the patents
to the Fahys Company, with knowledge of the facts, and that
Dalzell and the Fahys Company confederated and conspired
to cheat and defraud the Dueber Company out of the patents,
and, in pursuance of their conspiracy, filed their bill aforesaid
against the Dueber Company
Annexed to this bill was an affidavit of Dueber that he had
read it and knew the contents thereof, and that the same was
true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters therein
stated on information and belief, and that as to those matters
he believed it to be true.
To this bill answers were filed by Dalzell and the Fahys
Company, denying the material allegations, and a general
replication was filed to these answers.
By stipulation of the parties, the evidence taken in each
case was used in both. After a hearing on pleadings and
proofs, the Circuit Court dismissed the bill of Dalzell and the
Fahys Company, and entered a decree against them, as prayed
for, upon the bill of the Dueber Company 38 Fed. Rep. 597.
Dazell and the Fahys Company appealed from each decree.
Xr J E. Bowman and Mr Edm4md TVeimore for appellants.

.

James .Xoore for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTiCi GRAY, after stating the substance of the plead-

ings and decrees, delivered the opinion of the court.
The more important of these cases, and the first to be considered, is the bill in equity of the Dueber Watch Case Manufacturing Company to compel specific performance by Dalzell
of an oral agreement, alleged to have been made by him while
in its employment, to assign to it the right to obtain patents
for his inventions in tools for making parts of watch cases.
An oral agreement for the sale and assignment of the right
to obtain a patent for an invention is not within the statute
of frauds, nor within section 4898 of the Revised Statutes reqmring assignments of patents to be in writing, and may be
specifically enforced in equity, upon sufficient proof thereof.
omerby v Buntm, 118 Mass. 279, Gould v Banks, 8 Wend.
562, Burr v De la Tergne, 102 N. Y 415, Blakeney v
Goode, 30 Ohio St. 350.
But a manufacturing corporation, which has employed a
skilled workman, for a stated compensation, to take charge of
its works, and to devote his time and services to devising and
making improvements in articles there manufactured, is not
entitled to a conveyance of patents obtained for inventions
made by him while so employed, in the absence of express
agreement to that effect. iaygood v Hewt, 119 U S. 226.
Upon the question whether such a contract was ever made
by Dalzell, as is alleged in the bill of the Dueber Company,
the testimony of Dalzell and of Dueber, the president and
principal stockholder of the Dueber Company, is in irreconcilable conflict.
Dalzell was a skilled workman in the manufacture of various
parts of watch cases, and was employed by the Dueber Company, first for eight months as electroplater and gilder, and
then for a year in its tool factory, at wages of twenty-five
dollars a week, from February, 1883, until November, 1884,
and thenceforth at wages of thirty dollars a week, until January 19, 1886, when he left their employment, and immediately
entered the employment of the Fahys Company, and executed
to that company a license to use his patents.

DALZELL v. DUEBER MANUFACTURINIIG

0.

321

Opinion of the Court.

The matters principally relied on by the Dueber Company,
as proving the contract sought to be enforced, are a conversation between Dalzell and Dueber at the time of raising his
wages in November, 1884, another conversation between them
in the spring of 1885, and oral promises said to have been
made by Dalzell m the summer of 1885, to assign to the
Dueber Company his rights to obtain patents. It will be convenient to consider these matters successively
The bill alleges that Dalzell's wages were raised in November, 1881, at his request, "and in consideration of a promise
then made by said Dalzell to" the Dueber Company " that in
the future his services would be of great value in the devising and perfecting of such tools," and that, "in pursuance of
said promise and oontract," Dalzell continued in the company's
employ, at its expense, and with the assistance of its workmen,
to devie and construct such tools.
Dueber's whole testimony on this point appears in the following question and answer "1Qu. Please state the circumstances which induced your company to increase Mr. Dalzell's
wages at the time they were increased. Ans. Mr. Dalzell
came to me in the office, and he says, IMr. Dueber, a year is
now up since I worked for you in this factory I suppose you
are satisfied with the improvements I have made, and I have
come to have my wages raised, and I will show you that, if
you raise my wages, the improvements I will make this year
will justify you in doing so.' I asked him what wages he
wanted, he said 'thirty dollars per week,' and he was paid
that until the time he left. When that year was up, nothing
was said about wages."
This testimony tends to show no more than that Dalzell expressed a confident belief that, if his wages should be raised,
the improvements which he would make during the coming
year would justify the increase. It has no tendency to prove
any such promise or contract as alleged in the bill, or any other
promise or contract on Dalzell's part. So far, therefore, no
contract is proved, even if full credit is given to Dueber's testi.
mony
As to what took place in the spring of 1885, the bill alleges
VOL. CxLix-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that, subsequently to the aforesaid interview, "and when said
tools were completed," Dalzell requested the company to apply,
for its own use and benefit, for patents for inventions which he
represented that he had made "while engaged in designing
and constructing said tools," and which, he suggested, might,
if not secured by letters patent, be made known and explained by some of the workmen then employed there to rival
companies, and, as a further inducement to the company to
have such patents applied for, voluntarily offered, if the company would permit him to do so, and would pay all expenses
of obtaining patents, to apply therefor, for the benefit of the
company, and "not ask or require any further or other consideration for said inventions and such letters patent as might be
granted thereon," and that this proposition was "then and
there accepted by" the company, and "it was then fully
agreed between said parties" that Daizell should immediately
proceed, through a solicitor of his own selection, to procure
the patents in the name of the company, and the company
should pay the necessary expenses.
Upon this point, Dueber's testimony was as follows "Qu.
Who first suggested the idea of patenting these devices, and
when9 Ans. Mr. Dazell, in the spring of 1885. Qu. Please
state all that took place at that time. Ans. Mr. Dalzell came
to me and said, 'Mr. Dueber, we have got a very good thing
here, let us patent this for the benefit of the concern, we
have some men here, who may run away and carry those ideas
with them.' I objected at first, finally he says, cIf you will
pay for getting them out, I don't want anything for them.'
I then said, ' Let us go over to Mr. Layman to-morrow, and
attend to it.' He said he knew a more competent lawyer
than that, that he would send for." Dueber also testified that,
when Dalzell first suggested taking out letters patent, Dueber
told him that he did not think the improvements of sufficient
value to justify taking out patents and paying for them, and
that "about all" that Dazell replied was, "We have a good
many men here who may carry off these ideas into other shops,
and I want to retain them for this concern."
All this testimony of Dueber was given in September, 1886,

DALZELL v. DUEBER MANUFACTURING

CO.

323

Opinion of the Court.

before the filing of the bill for specific performance. Being
recalled, after this bill had been filed, he testified, on crossexamination, that he now considered the inventions covered
by the patents sued on as valuable, because the company had
spent a great deal of money on them, and he declined or
evaded giving any other reason.
Bearing in mind that there was no proof whatever of any
previous agreement between the parties on the subject, the
contract as alleged in the bill and testified to by Dueber, by
which Dalzell is said to have voluntarily offered, with no other
motive than to prevent workmen from injuring the Dueber
Company by communicating the inventions to rival companies,
and for no other consideration than the payment by the Dueber Company of the expenses of obtaining patents, and without himself receiving any consideration, benefit or reward, and
without the company's even binding itself, for any fixed time,
to pay him the increased wages, or to keep him in its service,
is of itself highly improbable, and it may well be doubted
whether, if such a contract were satisfactorily proved to have
been made, a court of equity would not consider it too unconscionable a one between employer and employed, to be specifically enforced in favor of the former against the latter.
Cahkcart v Robznson, 5 Pet. 264, 276, . szs&Tyzjp & Missourz Railroad v Cromwell, 91 U S. 643, Pope _l-anqf Co.
v. Gormully, 144 U S. 224:.
Moreover, Dueber throughout manifests extreme readiness
to testify in favor of the theory which he is called to support,
and much unwillingness to disclose or to remember any inconsistent or qualifying circumstances. The record shows that
he has at different times made oath to four different versions
of the contract
1st. On March 16, 1886, when the Dueber Company filed a
petition in the superior court of Cincinnati against Dalzell to
compel him to assign his patents to it, Dueber made oath to
the truth of the statements in that petition, one of which was
"that, at the time of the making of application for said patents, it was agreed, for a valuable consideration before that
time paid, that said patents and inventions were the property

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opmion of the Court.

of this plaintiff, and should be transferred to it immediately
upon the issue thereof, and prior to the grant of the patents."
2d. On June 4, 1886, he made oath that the plea was true
in point of fact, which stated that the whole contract, both
for an increase of DazelPs wages and for his assignment to
the Dueber Company of his rights to patents for his inventions, was made "prior to any alleged invention by said
Dazell," and in consideration of an increase of wages to be
thereafter paid.
3d. In September, 1886, he testified that the increase of
wages was made upon the mere statement of Dalzell that he
would show that the improvements he would make during the
coming year would justify the increase, and that the subsequent contract to assign the patent rights was after the inventions had been made.
4th. On January 17, 1887, he made oath to the truth, of his
own knowledge, of this bill, which alleged that Dalzell's
wages were raised "in consideration of a promise" by Dalzell
"that in the future his services would be of great value in the
devising and perfecting of such tools," and also alleged that
the agreement to assign the patent rights was made after the
inventions.
Dalzell, being called as a witness in his own behalf, directly
contradicted Dueber in every material particular, and testified that the real transaction was that, after his inventions
had been made, and shown to Dueber, the latter was so
pleased with them that he, of his own accord, raised Dalzell's
wages, and offered to furnish the money to enable him to take
out patents. There is much evidence in the record, which
tends to contradict Dalzell in matters aside from the interviews between him and Dueber, and to impeach Dalzell's credibility as a witness. But impeaching Dalzell does not prove
that Dueber's testimony can be relied on.
What took place, or is said to have taken place, after these
interviews may be more briefly treated.
Whitney, the solicitor employed at Dalzell's suggestion,
applied for and obtained the patents in Dalzell's name, and
was paid his fees and the expenses of applying for the patents

DALZELL v. DUEBER MANIUFACTURIING C0.

325

Opunon of the Court.

by the Dueber Company with Dalzell's knowledge. In the
summer of 1885, before the patents were issued, he sent blank
assignments thereof to the Dueber Company to be signed by
Dalzell, which Moore, the general manager of the company,
as well as Dueber, in the absence of each other, asked Dalzell
to sign.
Upon what Dalzell then said, as upon nearly every material
point in the case, the testimony is conflicting. Dueber and
Mffoore testified, in accordance with the allegations in the bill,
that Dalzell replied that he would not sign any of them until
all the patents had "passed for issue," and would then sign
all together. But the manner in which they testified to this
does not carry much weight. And Dalzell testified that he
positively. refused to assign the patents until some arrangement for compensating him had been agreed upon.
Parts of a correspondence of Whitney with Dueber, and
with Dalzell, during the summer of 1885, were put m evidence, which indicate that Whitney, while advising Dalzell as
to his interests, sought to ingratiate himself with the Dueber
Company But they contain nothing to show any admission
by Dalzell that he had agreed, or intended, to assign the patent rights to the Dueber Company, without first obtaining
some arrangement whereby he might be compensated for his
inventions.
The Circuit Court, in its opimon, after alluding to various
matters tending to throw discredit on the testimony of each
of the principal witnesses, said, "The case is one on which
different minds may well reach a contrary opinion of the
merits." 38 Fed. Rep. 599. We concur in that view, and it
affords of itself a strong reason why the specific performance
prayed for should not be decreed.
From the time of Lord Hardwicke, it has been the established rule that a court of chancery will not decree specific
performance, unless the agreement is "certain, fair and just in
all its parts." Buxton v. Isster, 3 Atk. 383, 385, Underwood
v .Hitkom,1 Yes. Sen. .279, Fr'anks v Martm, 1 Eden, 309,
323. And the rule has been repeatedly affirmed and acted on
by this court. In Colson v Thompson, Mr. Justice Washing-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ton, speaking for the court, said "The contract which is
sought to be specifically executed ought not only to be
proved, but the terms of it should be so precise as that neither
party could reasonably misunderstand them. If the contract
be vague or uncertain, or the evidence to establish it be insufficient, a court of equity will not exercise its extraordinary
jurisdiction to enforce it, but will leave the party to his legal
remedy"
2 Wheat. 336, 341. So this court has said that
chancery will not decree specific performance, "if it be doubtful whether an agreement has been concluded, or is a mere
negotiation," nor "unless the proof is clear and satisfactory,
both as to the existence of the agreement and as to its terms."
Carr v Duval, 14 Pet. 79, 83, Nhickerson v Nickeerson, 127
.U S. 668, 676, Hennessy v Ioolworth, 128 U S. 438, 442.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the contract set
forth in the bill for specific performance has not been so
clearly and satisfactorily proved as to justify a decree for
specific performance of that contract, and that the decree for
the plaintiff on the bill of the Dueber Company must, therefore, be reversed, and the bill dismissed.
The decree sustaining the plea to the bill against the Dueber Company for an infringement, and ordering that bill to
be dismissed, is yet more clearly erroneous, for none of the
evidence introduced by either party tended to prove such a
contract as was set up in that plea. The only issue upon the
plea and replication was as to the sufficiency of the testimony
to support the plea as pleaded, and as the plea was not supported by the testimony, it should be overruled, and the
defendant ordered to answer the bill. Stead v Course, 4
Cranch, 403, 413, Farley v. iittson, 120 U. S. 303, 315, 318,
Equity Rule 34.
It is proper to add that the question whether the Dueber
Company, by virtue of the relations and transactions between
it and Dalzell, had the right, as by an implied license, to use
Dalzell's patents in its establishment, is not presented by
either of these records, but may be raised in the further proceedings upon the bill against the Dueber Company for an
infringement.

