OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Names of Counsel.

THE SERVIA.1
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 207. Argued April 12, 13, 1893.-Decided April 24,1893.

A steam vessel, the N., backed out from her slip in Jersey City, towards the
middle of the Hudson River between Jersey City and New York, preparatory to turning down to go to sea. Another steam vessel, the S., was
going down, above the N., and nearer the New York shore, on her way
to sea. It was customary and necessary for the N. to back out of her
slip to about the middle of the river. The S. knew of such practice of
the N. When the N. had reached the middle of the river she stopped her
engines and the S. assumed she would go ahead, and herself proceeded
without any material change of course, under slow speed, until she got
near enough to observe that the N. was continuing to make sternway at
considerable speed, and might bring herself in the path of the S. Then
the S. stopped her engines, being about 1000 feet away from the N., and
one minute after, upon observing that the N. still continued to make
sternway at a speed which indicated danger of collision, put her engines
at full speed astern and ported. The N., after stopping her engines,
waited two minutes before putting her engines at half speed ahead, and
two minutes more before putting her engines at full speed ahead. The
vessels collided, the N. and the S. both of them making sternway at the
time; held, that the N. was in fault and the S. not in fault.
The S. was justified in assuming that the N. would pursue her customary
course and took timely measures to avert a collision.
The statutory steering and sailing rules had little application in the case
and it was rather one of " special circumstances."

IN ADm=ALTY.

The case is stated in the opinon.

31" John'K Parsons,(with whom was 31r H7enry Galbraitk

Ward on the brief,) for appellant.
.31r Frank D Sturges, (with whom was -3f Edward L.
Owen on the brief,) for appellee.
1 The docket title of this case is " Harlich Nichels, Master of the Belgian
Steamship Noordland, Appellant, vs. The British Steamship Servia, her
engines, etc., the Cunard Steamship Company, Limited, Claimant."

THE SERVIA.
Opimon of the Court.

li. JusTICE BLATI.cFonD delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit m admiralty, &2
2e, lerought in February,
1886, in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, by Harlich Nichels, master of the
Belgian steamship Noordland, of Antwerp, against the British
steamship Servia, to recover damages resulting from a collision
which took place January 30, 1886, between those two vessels,
in the harbor of New York, in the Hudson River, between New
York and Jersey City Both were damaged and a cross-libel
was filed by the Seria against the Noordland. The Noordland was backing out, stern foremost, from her berth in a slip
m Jersey City, and the Servia had backed out from her slip
in the city of New York, and was heading down the Hudson
River above the Noordland. Both vessels were going to
sea, and had lain in their slips bow in. The libel of the
master of the Noordland charges fault in the Servia in that (1)
she was not stopped when the Noordland could be easily seen
from her, (2) she kept on until she was brought into dangerous proximity to the Noordland, (3) instead of then keeping
out of the way of the Noordland, she threw her head to starboard, and thus struck the Noordland on the starboard quarter.
The answer of the Servia charges negligence and fault on
the part of the Noordland, in that (1) she did not have competent and vigilant lookouts properly stationed and faithfully
attending to their duties, (2) her officers and crew were inattentive, (3) she continued under sternway, thus bringing her
down to and upon the Servia, which was as close into the
New York shore as it was prudent for her to go, (4) she did
not stop her sternway, or start her engines ahead, until
immediately before the collision, when it was too late to
avoid it, (5) after she had stopped her engines, she wrongfully and improperly started them astern again, thus crowding down to and upon the Servia's rightful course, notwithstanding she had plenty of room between her and New Jersey
to have gone ahead, which she was bound to have done, and
so have avoided the Servia.
VOL. CXLIX-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The case was heard by Judge Brown in the District Court,
and a decree was entered by that court dismissing the libel of
the Noordland, with costs. The opinion of Judge Brown is
reported in 30 Fed. Rep. 502. He held that the Servia did
all that the law required of her, and was without fault, and
that the collision occurred through the unjustifiable delay of
the Noordland in starting her engines ahead. The master of
the Noordland appealed to the Circuit Court, and that court,
held by Judge Wallace, in March, 1889, affirmed the decree of
the District Court, and dismissed the libel of the Noordland,
with costs of both courts. The libellant has appealed to this
court.
The Circuit Court made the following findings of fact
"1. At about 2.45 P.:r., January 30, 1886, a collision took
place between the steamships Servia and Noordland, in the
Hudson River, at a point 800 to 1000 feet off the New York
side, about opposite Cortlandt street. The river at that place
is about 4400 feet wide between the lines of the piers.
"2 . Both steamships had just left their respective slips, intending to put to sea, the slip of the Servia being above Houston Street, New York city, and the slip of the Noordland
being at Jersey City, about opposite the place of collision.
It was customary and necessary for the steamers to back out
of their respective slips to about the middle of' the river, for
the purpose of straightening on the courses down the river,
and it was frequently the practice of the Noordland to back
still nearer to the New York side. Both vessels knew the
practice customary with the other when starting for sea.
The Servia started from her slip at about 2.15 and the Noordland from hers about 2.30.
"3. The Servia had got turned about and straightened on
her course down the river, and was proceeding within a distance of 800 to 1000 feet from the New York shore, and
nearer to the New York shore than was customary, and as
near as she prudently could, having reference to her own size
and the proximity of other vessels, while the Noordland was
backing over towards the New York shore, assisted by a tug
at her port quarter, preparatory to straightening on her course.

THE SERVIA.
Opinion of the Court.

"4. When the 1oordland reached about mid-river she
stopped her engines and signalled the Servia that she intended
to starboard her helm and go ahead. The Servia did not
hear the signal, but observed the movements of the ioordland and assumed that she would go ahead m tune to leave
the Servia an unobstructed course. The Servia proceeded
without any material change of course, headed about south
by west one-half west, under slow speed, until she got near
enough to observe that the Noordland was contmuing to
make sternway at considerable speed and might bring herself in the path of the Servia, whereupon the Servia stopped
her engines, being then about 1000 feet away from the
Noordland, and one minute after, upon observing that the
1oordland still continued to make sternway at a speed which
indicated danger of collision, put her engines at full speed
astern and ported her helm.
"5. When the Koordland reached mid-river and stopped
her engines she had been backing at a speed of five or six
knots an hour, and, after stopping her engines and giving the
signal to indicate that she would go ahead she did not go
ahead, but waited two minutes longer before putting her engines at half speed ahead, and two minutes more, and when
it was too late to avoid collision, before putting her engines
at full speed ahead, and in the meantime she had continued
to encroach upon the Servia's course and was making sternway at the time the vessels collided.
"6. When the vessels came together the bow of the Servia
canted a little to starboard, while her engines were reversed,
and her starboard bow came into contact with the starboard
quarter of the Noordland at the extreme stern. Both vessels
were injured and the Servia sustained damages in the sum
found by the commissioner of the District Court.
"7. Both steamships were properly officered, manned, and
equipped. Those in charge of the Servia exercised proper
vigilance in observing the Noordland, but those in charge of
the Noordland were inattentive in observing the Servia and in
observing the speed at which their own vessel was nearing
the New York shore after she had reached mid-river, and were

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

negligent m permitting her to back so near to the New York
side.
"8. There were no vessels or obstructions in the river at
the time to complicate the movements of the Noordland, and
it was entirely unnecessary for her to back much, if any, beyond the middle of the river in order to straighten upon her
course, but she nevertheless did back at a speed gradually decreasing from five to six knots an hour until she came within
1000 feet or nearer of the New York side and struck the
Servia."
There is a bill of exceptions, which, after setting forth the
findings of fact by the court, states as follows
"Whereupon the libellant offered to the said court the following additional findings of fact.
"' First. The course of the Servia was ahead down stream
on the New York side from Houston Street, and of the Noordland astern across stream from Jersey City about opposite
the place of collision.'
"Which the said court refused, except as already found, and
the libellant duly excepted to such refusal.
" ' Second. The vessels were on crossing courses, the Servia
having the Noordland on her starboard hand.'
"Which said court refused, except as already found, and
the libellant duly excepted to such refusal.
"' Third. .Just before the collision, but too late to overcome
her headway or prevent the vessels coming together, the Servia reversed full speed astern, causing her bow (her propeller
being right-handed and her helm being aport) to cant over to
starboard towards the Noordland.'
"Which said court refused to find, and the libellant duly
excepted to such refusal.
"' Fourth. The Servia struck the Noordland at the port
side of her fantail, at the extreme stern, doing considerable
damage.'
"Which the said court refused, except as already found, and
the libellant duly excepted to such refusal.
"'Fifth. If the Servia had reversed her engines a minute
sooner, as she might perfectly well have done, there would
have been no collision.'

THE SERVIA.
Opinion of the Court.

"Which the said court refused to find, and the libellant
duly excepted to such refusal.
" Sixth. If the Servia had continued her course without
stopping, she would have gone clear.'
"Which said court refused to find, and the libellant duly
excepted to such refusal.
"'Seventh. The master of the Servia proceeded upon the
opinion that his vessel had right of way, that the Noordland
was required to keep out of her way This led to the Servia
coming into dangerous proximity to the Noordland. Instead
of then keeping on, according to this view of her captam, the
Servia by reversing and canting her head towards the Noordland brought about the collision.'
" As to the seventh request, the court found that the master
of the Servia supposed and claimed that his vessel had the
right of way In other respects tins finding was refused, and
the libellant duly excepted to such refusal.
"'Eighth. To the southward and westward of the course
of the Noordland as she backed towards New York were fiats
and shoals, to avoid which, when she straightened on her
course, made it desirable for her to reach across as far as was
safe towards the New York side of the river.'
"Which said court refused to find, and the libellant duly
excepted to such refusal.
"' Ninth. The opinion and observation of the master of the
Servia were that it is usual for steamers going to sea from
the Jersey side of the river to back over to from eight hundred to a thousand feet of the New York piers -just to clear
them. This is usual where vessels are not in the way at the
end of the New York piers, and suitable.'
"Which said court refused to find, and the libellant duly
excepted to such refusal.
" ' Tenth. The Noordland, as she was going astern, did not
have the same command of her movements as was the case
with the Servia.'
"Which the said court did find.
" And thereupon the said court found the following conclusions of law

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

I1. Each steamship was bound to conform to her own
customary course and manceuvres under similar circumstances
and take notice of the customary course and manceuvres and
observe the movements of the other, and each had the right
to assume that the other would do so.'
"To which conclusion the libellant duly excepted as being
against the evidence and- against the law
"' 2. The Servia was justified in assuming that she could
safely proceed at moderate speed upon the course she had
taken after she had straightened down the river, without
being obstructed by the Noordland, and it was not until such
time as she ought to have discovered that the Noordland was
backmg so near her path as to probably impede her movements that she was under any obligation to apprehend danger
and take additional measures to avoid collision.'
"To which conclusion the libellant duly excepted as being
against the evidence and against the law
"' 3. The Servia was not guilty of fault or negligence contributing to the collision.'
"To which conclusion the libellant duly excepted as being
against the evidence and against the law
"' 4. The Noordland was in fault for backing nearer to the
New York side than was necessary or was prudent, in view of
the course and movements of the Seria, for not taking timely
measures to stop her sternway after she had reached midriver, and for failing to observe the movements of the Servia
with due attention.'
"To which conclusion the libellant duly excepted as being
against the evidence and against the law
"' 5. The decree of the District Court is right, and should
be affirmed with costs, and it is accordingly so ordered.'
"To which conclusion the libellant excepted as being
against the evidence and against the law
"And the libellant thereupon offered to and requested
the court to find the following additional conclusions of
law

"' First. The Noordland had the right of way, and the
Servia was at fault for not keeping out of her way

THE SERVIA.
Opinion of the Court.

"'Second. The Servia should have stopped before she
came into dangerous proximity to the Noordland.
"'Third. The lNoordland was not compelled to go ahead
before she had run out her sternway, .nor was she required
to stop her engine nearer the Jersey side of the river.
"'Fourth. The Servia had no right to require or expect
the Noordland to run out her sternway at a greater distance from the ends of the New York piers than she did.
"' Fifth. The Servia, having elected to go on, was at fault
for reversing full speed astern and putting her helm aport
when so near the Noordland that before her headway was
stopped her bow would be carried into that vessel.
"'Sixth. The decree of the District Court should be reversed and a decree should be entered holding the Servia m
fault for the collision, with costs to the appellants of the District and Circuit Courts and a reference to ascertain the damages of the Noordland.'
"And the court declined to find any further conclusions of
law than already found, to which refusal of the court to
find the said six additional conclusions of law, and each of
them, the libellant duly excepted as being against the evidence and against the law"
It is stated in the bill of exceptions that it contains all the
evidence material to any of the exceptions.
It is alleged by the appellant as error (1) that the Circuit
Court should have made the eighth and ninth findings of
fact requested on behalf of the Noordland, (2) that it should
have made so much of the seventh finding of fact requested
on behalf of the Noordland as found that the master of the
Servia proceeded upon the opinion that ls vessel had the
right of way, (3) that the Circuit Court erroneously found
the first, second, third, and fourth conclusions of law made by
it, (4) that it erroneously refused to find, as requested for the
Noordland, that she had the right of way and that the Servia
was at fault for not keeping out of the way, (5) that it erroneously refused to find, as requested for the Noordland, that
the Servia should have stopped before she came into dangerous cproximity to the Noordland, (6) that it erroneously re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

fused to find, as requested for the Noordland, that she was
not compelled to go ahead before she had run out her sternway, nor was she required to stop her engines nearer the N~ew
Jersey side of the river, (7) that it erroneously refused to
find, as requested for the Noordland, that the Servia had no
right to require or expect the Noordland to run out her sternway at a greater distance from the ends of the New York
piers than she did, (8) that it erroneously decided that the
Noordland was in fault, and (9) that it erroneously decided that
the Servia was free from blame.
It is contended here on behalf of the Noordland (1) that the
vessels were on crossing courses, and that the Servia, having
the Koordland on her starboard side, was required by rule 19
of the steering and sailing rules set forth in ยง 4233 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, and by article 16 of
the act of March 3, 1885, c. 354, (23 Stat. 438, 441,) to keep
out of the way of the Noordland, (2) that the collision occurred because the Servia claimed the right of way and acted
accordingly, and that the Circuit Court not only refused to
find that the Noordland was entitled to the right of way,
but approved the action of the master of the Servia in appropriating the right of way to that vessel, (3) that, if the Noordland was entitled to the right of way, it was error for the
Circuit Court to refuse to find that the Servia should have
stopped before she came into dangerous proxnnity to the
Noordland, (4) that there were no special circumstances to
deprive the Noordland of her right of way, nor was she unreasonable in insisting upon her right, (5) that the Servia
could not be excused for her failure to keep out of the way
of the Koordland on the ground that she had the right to
assume that the Noordland would not obstruct her course, or
would yield to the Servia the right of way to which the
Noordland was entitled, (6) that the assumption upon which
the Servia is supposed to have acted is pure assumption, those
in charge of the navigation of the Servia not having acted
upon such an assumption, (7) that it was error in the Circuit
Court not to find the eighth and ninth additional findings of
fact proposed on behalf of the Noordland, (8) that the collision

THE SERVIA.
Opinion of the Court.

was due solely to the fact that those in charge of the Servia
erroneously supposed that they had the right of way, (9) that
the undisputed facts show that the Servia was guilty of inattention, (10) that if the Noordland was at fault for allowing an interval to elapse between stopping her engines and
going ahead, then the Servia was also at fault for allowing an
interval to elapse between stopping her engines and going
astern, and (11) that the decree of the Circuit Court should
be reversed, and a decree made in favor of the Noordland
for her damages, with costs.
But we are of opimon that the decree of the Circuit Court
was correct and must be affirmed.
The first conclusion of law of the Circuit Court, that "each
steamship was bound to conform to her own customary course
and manceuvres under similar circumstances, and take notice
of the customary course and manceuvres and observe the
movements of the other, and each had the right to assume
that the other would do so," was correct. The known usage
as to the movements of each vessel preparatory to getting
upon her course to sea was established as a custom, and each
vessel was justified in assuming that the other would perform
her duty in that respect. Williamson v Barrett, 13 How
101, 110, The 'Vanderbilt, 6 Wall. 225, The Free State, 91
U. S. 200, The J'ohnZ. .asbrouek, 93 U. S. 405, 408, Dize
.Eskand The _Tiord, L. R. 3 P 0. 436. It was the duty of
each vessel to observe the movements of the other.
The Circuit Court was correct also in finding as a conclusion
of law that "the Servia was justified in assuming that she
could safely proceed at moderate speed upon the course she
had taken after she had straightened down the river, without
being obstructed by the Noordland, and it was not until such
time as she ought to have discovered that the Noordland was
backing so near her path as to probably impede her movements that she was under any obligation to apprehend danger
and take additional measures to avoid collision." The court
had found as facts that the Servia was proceeding under slow
headway down the river, at a distance of from 800 to 1000
feet from the New York shore, and heading about south by

OCTOBER TERiM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

west one-half west, thus having from 1200 to 1400 feet between her starboard side and the middle of the river (the
river being about 4400 feet wide) toward which the Noordland was backing. The Servia was, therefore, heading well
under the Noordland's stern, the latter having abundance of
the width of the river for her manceuvre, and knew the usage
of the iNoordland to back to about the middle of the river,
and saw that the engines of the Koordland were stopped
when she had reached about the middle of the river, indicating that the NTordland intended to follow her usage. The
Servia, therefore, had a right to assume that the Koordland
would head down the river and proceed to sea. It became
the duty of the Servia only to proceed carefully on her course,
keeping watch of the Noordland. No danger was apparent.
The Serva's course was well clear of the Noordland, and of
the course which the Servia had the right to believe the
Noordland would promptly take. Marsden on Collisions,
Ed. 1880, 233, Te Ulster, 1 Mlar. L. C. 234, The Scotta,
14 Wall. 170, The Free State, 91 U. S. 200, TAe Rhondda,
8 App. Cas. 549, The Jesmond and the Earl of Elygm, L. R. 4
P0.I.
The Servia stopped her engines when she had got near
enough to see that the Koordland continued to make sternway, and when about 1000 feet away from her, and immediately afterwards the Servia put her engines at full speed
astern and ported her helm. It then appeared to the Servia
that the Noordland, in violation of the usage and of her duty,
was proposing to maintain her sternway so as to bring her
across the path of the Servia, and that there was danger of
collision. Then it became the duty of the Servia to take
measures to avert a collision, which she did, as above stated.
The Circuit Court held that the Servia was not guilty of
fault or negligence contributing to the collision. This is a
proper conclusion from the findings of fact that she was properly officered, manned, and equipped, that those in charge of
her exercised proper vigilance in observing the Noordland,
that the Servia was well over toward the New York shore,
leaving ample room for the movements of the Noordland,

THE SERVIA.
Opmon of the Court.

that the Servia was under slow speed, that she stopped her
engines as soon as she saw that the Noordland was under
sternway, although her engines had been stopped, and that
the Servia put her engines at full speed astern as soon as she
saw that such sternway of the Noordland was continuing so
as to indicate danger of collision. The Servia, therefore,
complied with all the requirements of the law
The Circuit Court held, also, that the Koordland was in
fault for backing nearer to the New York side of the river
than was necessary or was prudent in view of the course and
movements of the Servia, for not taking timely measures to
stop her sternway after she had reached mid-river, and for
failing to observe the movements of the Servia with due attention. This was a proper conclusion of law from the findings of fact, that it was the custom of the Noordland to back
to mid-river m her manceuvre of turning, that there were no
vessels or obstructions in the river at the time to complicate
her movements, that it was entirely unnecessary for her to
back much, if any, beyond the middle of the river, in order to
straighten upon her course, that when she reached mid-river,
she stopped her engines and signalled that she intended to
starboard her helm and go ahead, that she then waited two
minutes longer before putting her engines at half speed ahead,
and waited two minutes more before putting her engines at
full speed ahead, that her speed astern, prior to the stopping
of her engines, had been five or six knots an hour, that the
two vessels struck when the Servia was 1000 feet or less from
the New York shore and was making sternway, and that
.those in charge of the Noordland were inattentive in observing the Servia and in observing the speed' at which the Noordland was nearing the New York shore after she had reached
mid-river, and were negligent in permitting the Noordland to
back so near to the New York side.
This negligence on the part of the Noordland in observing
the Servia, and in observing how the Koordland was
encroaching on the course of the Servia, is a sufficient explanation of the collision which ensued. Tie Genesee Ck'&ef, 12
How 443, 463, The Pennsylvansa, 19 Wall. 125, 136, The

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Sunnyszde, 91 U S. 208, 214, The Illinois, 103 U S. 298,
299, The Nevada, 106 U S. 154, 159.
The Noordland was in fault for not starting her engines
ahead at once after stopping in mid-river. There was no
necessity for her to back further across the river. It is found
as a fact that, after stopping her engines and signalling that
she would go ahead, she did not go ahead, but waited two
minutes longer before putting her engines at half speed ahead,
and two minutes more, and until after she had continued to
encroach upon the Servia's course before putting her engines
at full speed ahead. That negligence was assigned by the
District Court as the cause of the collision, and the Circuit
Court finds that the :Noordland was in fault for not taking
timely measures to stop her sternway after she had reached
mid-river.
The exceptions on the part of the Noordland to the refusal
of the Circuit Court to find the proposed conclusions of law
are untenable, because those conclusions of law were based on
the findings of fact proposed on the part of the Noordland,
which the Circuit Court correctly refused to adopt. The
court substantially found as requested by the first and second
additional findings of fact proposed on the part of the Noordland. The Noordland was at no time before the collision on
a definite course, as contemplated by the statute and rules of
navigation, and on the facts found she cannot claim that she
had the right of way as against the Servia. The statutory
steering and sailing rules before referred to have little application to a vessel backing out of a slip before taking her
course, but the case is rather one of "special circumstances,"
under Rule or Article 24, requiring each vessel to watch, and
be guided by, the movements of the other. A finding that
the Servia had the Noordland on the starboard side, and that,
therefore, the Noordland had the right of way, and the Servia
was in fault for not keeping out of the way, would be
immaterial, in view of the other facts affirmatively found.
The Noordland was bound to conform to her usage in the
river; she knew that usage, and the Servia also knew it. Only
the inexcusable delay of the Noordland in observing her own

